{"id": "43210728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43210728", "title": "2014 Miami Beach Bowl", "text": "2014 Miami Beach Bowl\n\nThe 2014 Miami Beach Bowl was a post-season American college football bowl game played on December 22, 2014 at Marlins Park in Miami, Florida. The first edition of the Miami Beach Bowl, it featured the American Athletic Conference co-champion Memphis Tigers against the BYU Cougars. It began at 2:00 p.m. EST and aired on ESPN. It was one of the 2014–15 bowl games that comprised the conclusion of the 2014 FBS football season.\n\nMemphis beat BYU in double overtime by a score of 55–48. Afterwards, the two teams engaged in a bench-clearing brawl.\nThe game featured the American Athletic Conference co-champion Memphis Tigers against the BYU Cougars.\n\nThis was the first meeting between these two teams.\n\nIn April 2014, organizers announced that they had reached a deal with BYU to play in the inaugural Miami Beach Bowl in 2014. After defeating the UNLV Rebels for their sixth win of the season on November 15, bowl director Carlos Padilla II extended an invitation to play in the game.\n\nThis was BYU's third Florida bowl game, following the 1976 Tangerine Bowl where they lost to Oklahoma State 21–49, and the 1985 Citrus Bowl where they lost to Ohio State 7–10.\n\nAfter finishing the regular season with a 9–3 record and a share of the American Athletic Conference championship, the Tigers accepted their bid to the Miami Beach Bowl.\n\nThis was Memphis' second Florida bowl game, following the 2008 St. Petersburg Bowl (the inaugural contest for that bowl game) where they lost to the South Florida Bulls by a score of 14–41. This was the Tigers' first bowl appearance since that game.\n\nDuring the post game celebration Memphis players ran towards the BYU sideline to celebrate with their fans sitting behind the BYU bench (due to the bizarre baseball stadium field layout, most of the people in attendance could only sit on the BYU side of the field). Some bumping and shoving occurred and one Memphis player was pushed in the back by a BYU player that was allegedly also being pushed from behind. The Memphis player he pushed then turned around and (using both hands) punched/shoved the BYU player in the back of the head. As the BYU player turned his attention back to the attacker in an apparent attempt to retaliate he threw a punch and he was attacked by 3-4 Memphis players and an all out, bench-clearing brawl ensued. Punches and kicks were thrown by many players on both sides, one Memphis player even used a helmet as a weapon, and when it was over, numerous players walked off the field bloody and bruised. As the brawl was dying down a BYU player (Kai Nacua) can be seen coming into view and sucker punching a Memphis player (Alan Cross), who was not wearing a helmet, from behind. As the BYU player turned toward the camera's view, a bloodied bruise could be clearly seen from a punch he received while attempting to defend himself from another Memphis player earlier in the brawl.\n\nTom Holmoe, BYU's athletic director, apologized to BYU fans stating, \"We expect better of our athletes, even in the face of a difficult loss. We intend to fully review this matter. I apologize to Cougar Nation.\" Memphis said in a statement via AAC commissioner Mike Aresco that they are displeased with the Miami Beach Bowl brawl, and that, \"The university will respond accordingly following this detailed review. Needless to say, we are extremely disappointed that this happened, as we expect the highest standard of conduct from our student-athletes.\" \n\nOn January 20, 2015, The University of Memphis announced the completion of an internal review of the incident and expected punishments to be levied against twelve members of the team. BYU also took action to punish their players. Kai Nacua, Trey Dye, Sione Takitaki, and Tomasi Laulile were all suspended for BYU's season opener against Nebraska.\n"}
{"id": "11262231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11262231", "title": "Abda and Sabas", "text": "Abda and Sabas\n\nAbda and Sabas were two martyrs mentioned in the \"Menologium der Orthodox-Katholischen Kirche des Morgenlandes\" by Probst Maltzew. Their feast day is July 8.\n\n"}
{"id": "37600898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37600898", "title": "Abortion-rights movements", "text": "Abortion-rights movements\n\nAbortion-rights movements, also referred to as pro-choice movements, advocate for legal access to induced abortion services. The issue of induced abortion remains divisive in public life, with recurring arguments to liberalize or to restrict access to legal abortion services. Abortion-rights supporters themselves are frequently divided as to the types of abortion services that should be available and to the circumstances, for example different periods in the pregnancy such as late term abortions, in which access may be restricted.\n\nMany of the terms used in the debate are political framing terms used to validate one's own stance while invalidating the opposition's. For example, the labels \"pro-choice\" and \"pro-life\" imply endorsement of widely held values such as liberty and freedom, while suggesting that the opposition must be \"anti-choice\" or \"anti-life\" (alternatively \"pro-coercion\" or \"pro-death\"). These views do not always fall along a binary; in one Public Religion Research Institute poll, seven in ten Americans described themselves as \"pro-choice\", while almost two-thirds described themselves as \"pro-life\". The Associated Press favors the terms \"abortion rights\" and \"anti-abortion\" instead.\n\nFeminists of the late 19th century were often opposed to the legalization of abortion. In \"The Revolution\", operated by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, an anonymous contributor signing \"A\" wrote in 1869 about the subject, arguing that instead of merely attempting to pass a law against abortion, the root cause must also be addressed.\n\nSimply passing an anti-abortion law would, the writer stated, \"be only mowing off the top of the noxious weed, while the root remains. [...] No matter what the motive, love of ease, or a desire to save from suffering the unborn innocent, the woman is awfully guilty who commits the deed. It will burden her conscience in life, it will burden her soul in death; But oh! thrice guilty is he who drove her to the desperation which impelled her to the crime.\"\n\nThe movement towards the liberalization of abortion law emerged in the 1920s and '30s in the context of the victories that had been recently won in the area of birth control. Campaigners including Marie Stopes in England and Margaret Sanger in the US had succeeded in bringing the issue into the open, and birth control clinics were established which offered family planning advice and contraceptive methods to women in need.\n\nIn 1929, the Infant Life Preservation Act was passed in Britain, which amended the law (Offences against the Person Act 1861) so that an abortion carried out in good faith, for the sole purpose of preserving the life of the mother, would not be an offence.\n\nStella Browne was a leading birth control campaigner, who increasingly began to venture into the more contentious issue of abortion in the 1930s. Browne's beliefs were heavily influenced by the work of Havelock Ellis, Edward Carpenter and other sexologists. She came to strongly believe that working women should have the choice to become pregnant and to terminate their pregnancy while they worked in the horrible circumstances surrounding a pregnant woman who was still required to do hard labour during her pregnancy. In this case she argued that doctors should give free information about birth control to women that wanted to know about it. This would give women agency over their own circumstances and allow them to decide whether they wanted to be mothers or not.\n\nIn the late 1920s Browne began a speaking tour around England, providing information about her beliefs on the need for accessibility of information about birth control for women, women’s health problems, problems related to puberty and sex education and high maternal morbidity rates among other topics. These talks urged women to take matters of their sexuality and their health into their own hands. She became increasingly interested in her view of the woman’s right to terminate their pregnancies, and in 1929 she brought forward her lecture “The Right to Abortion” in front of the World Sexual Reform Congress in London. In 1931 Browne began to develop her argument for women’s right to decide to have an abortion. She again began touring, giving lectures on abortion and the negative consequences that followed if women were unable to terminate pregnancies of their own choosing such as: suicide, injury, permanent invalidism, madness and blood-poisoning.\nOther prominent feminists, including Frida Laski, Dora Russell, Joan Malleson and Janet Chance began to champion this cause - the cause broke dramatically into the mainstream in July 1932 when the British Medical Association council formed a committee to discuss making changes to the laws on abortion. On 17 February 1936, Janet Chance, Alice Jenkins and Joan Malleson established the Abortion Law Reform Association as the first advocacy organisation for abortion liberalization. The association promoted access to abortion in the United Kingdom and campaigned for the elimination of legal obstacles. In its first year ALRA recruited 35 members, and by 1939 had almost 400 members.\n\nThe ALRA was very active between 1936 and 1939 sending speakers around the country to talk about Labour and Equal Citizenship and attempted, though most often unsuccessfully, to have letters and articles published in newspapers. They became the most popular when a member of the ALRA’s Medico-Legal Committee received the case of a fourteen-year-old girl who had been raped, and received a termination of this pregnancy from Dr. Joan Malleson, a progenitor of the ALRA. This case gained a lot of publicity, however once the war began, the case was tucked away and the cause again lost its importance to the public.\n\nIn 1938, Joan Malleson precipitated one of the most influential cases in British abortion law when she referred a pregnant fourteen-year old rape victim to gynaecologist Aleck Bourne. He performed an abortion, then illegal, and was put on trial on charges of procuring abortion. Bourne was eventually acquitted in \"Rex v. Bourne\" as his actions were \"...an example of disinterested conduct in consonance with the highest traditions of the profession\". This court case set a precedent that doctors could not be prosecuted for performing an abortion in cases where pregnancy would probably cause \"mental and physical wreck\".\n\nThe Abortion Law Reform Association continued its campaigning after the War, and this, combined with broad social changes brought the issue of abortion back into the political arena in the 1960s. President of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists John Peel chaired the committee advising the British Government on what became the 1967 Abortion Act, which allowed for legal abortion on a number of grounds, including to avoid injury to the physical or mental health of the woman or her existing child(ren) if the pregnancy was still under 28 weeks.\n\nIn America an abortion reform movement emerged in the 1960s. In 1964 Gerri Santoro of Connecticut died trying to obtain an illegal abortion and her photo became the symbol of the pro-choice movement. Some women's rights activist groups developed their own skills to provide abortions to women who could not obtain them elsewhere. As an example, in Chicago, a group known as \"Jane\" operated a floating abortion clinic throughout much of the 1960s. Women seeking the procedure would call a designated number and be given instructions on how to find \"Jane\".\n\nIn the late 1960s, a number of organizations were formed to mobilize opinion both against and for the legalization of abortion. The forerunner of the NARAL Pro-Choice America was formed in 1969 to oppose restrictions on abortion and expand access to abortion. In late 1973 NARAL became the National Abortion Rights Action League.\n\nThe landmark judicial ruling of the Supreme Court in \"Roe v. Wade\" ruled that a Texas statute forbidding abortion except when necessary to save the life of the mother was unconstitutional. The Court arrived at its decision by concluding that the issue of abortion and abortion rights falls under the right to privacy. The Court held that a right to privacy existed and included the right to have an abortion. The court found that a mother had a right to abortion until viability, a point to be determined by the abortion doctor. After viability a woman can obtain an abortion for health reasons, which the Court defined broadly to include psychological well-being in the decision Doe v. Bolton, delivered concurrently.\n\nFrom the 1970s, and the spread of second-wave feminism, abortion and reproductive rights became unifying issues among various women's rights groups in Canada, the United States, the Netherlands, Britain, Norway, France, Germany, and Italy.\n\nSouth Africa allows abortion on demand under its Choice on Termination of Pregnancy Act. Most African nations, however, have abortion bans except in cases where the woman's life or health is at risk. A number of abortion-rights international organizations have made altering abortion laws and expanding family planning services in sub-Saharan Africa and the developing world a top priority.\n\nBecause Argentina is very restrictive against abortion, reliable reporting on abortion rates is unavailable. Argentina is a strongly Catholic country, and protesters seeking liberalized abortion in 2013 directed anger toward the Catholic Church. Argentina is the home of the anti-violence organization Ni una menos, which was formed in 2015 to protest the murder of Daiana García, which opposes the violation of a woman's right to choose the number and interval of pregnancies.\n\nAbortion is illegal in the Republic of Ireland except when the woman's life is threatened by a medical condition (including risk of suicide), since a 1983 referendum (aka 8th Amendment) amended the constitution. Subsequent amendments in 1992 (after the X Case) – the thirteenth and fourteenth – guaranteed the right to travel abroad (for abortions) and to distribute and obtain information of \"lawful services\" available in other countries. Two proposal to remove suicide risk as a ground for abortion were rejected by the people, in a referendum in 1992 and in 2002. Thousands of women get around the ban by privately travelling to the other European countries (typically Britain and the Netherlands) to undergo termination, or by ordering abortion pills from Women on Web online and taking them in Ireland.\n\nThe Sinn Féin, Labour Party, Social Democrats, Green Party, Communist Party, Socialist Party and Irish Republican Socialist Party have made their official policies to support abortion rights. Mainstream centre-right parties such as Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael do not have official policies on abortion rights but allow conscience vote on supportive of abortion in limited circumstances \n\nAfter the death of Savita Halappanavar in 2012, there has been a renewed campaign to repeal the eighth amendment and legalize abortion. , the Irish government has set up a citizens assembly to look at the issue. Their proposals, broadly supported by a cross-party Oireachtas committee, include repeal of the 8th Amendment, unrestricted access to abortion for the first 12 weeks of pregnancy and no-term limits for special cases of fatal foetal abnormalities, rape and incest. \n\nA referendum on the repealing of the 8th Amendment was held on 25 May 2018. Together for Yes a cross-society group formed from the Coalition to Repeal the 8th Amendment, National Women's Council of Ireland and the Abortion Rights Campaign will be the official campaign group for repeal in the referendum. \n\nDespite being part of the United kingdom, abortion is also illegal in Northern Ireland, except in cases when the woman is threatened by a medical condition, physical or mental.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Abortion Act 1967 legalized abortion on a wide number of grounds, except in Northern Ireland. In Great Britain, the law states that pregnancy may be terminated up to 24 weeks if it:\n\n\nHowever, the criterion of risk to mental and physical health is applied broadly, and \"de facto\" makes abortion available on demand, though this still requires the consent of two National Health Service doctors. Abortions in Great Britain are provided at no out-of-pocket cost to the patient by the NHS.\n\nThe Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats are predominantly pro-abortion-rights parties, though with significant minorities in each either holding more restrictive definitions of the right to choose, or subscribing to an anti-abortion analysis. The Conservative Party is more evenly split between both camps and its former leader, David Cameron, supports abortion on demand in the early stages of pregnancy.\n\nAbortion was first legalized in 1978. In April 2005, the Iranian Parliament approved a new bill easing the conditions by also allowing abortion in certain cases when the fetus shows signs of handicap, and the Council of Guardians accepted the bill in 15 June 2005.\nLegal abortion is now allowed if the mother's life is in danger, and also in cases of fetal abnormalities that makes it not viable after birth (such as anencephaly) or produce difficulties for mother to take care of it after birth, such as major thalassemia or bilateral polycystic kidney disease.\n\nAbortion-rights advocacy in the United States is centered in the United States pro-choice movement.\n\nChapter XXIX of the Penal Code of Japan makes abortion illegal in Japan. However, the allows to practice abortion with the consent of the mother and her spouse, if the pregnancy has resulted from rape, or if the continuation of the pregnancy may severely endanger the maternal health because of physical reasons or economic reasons. Other people, including the mother herself, trying to abort the fetus can be punished by the law. People trying to practice abortion without the consent of the woman can also be punished, including the doctors.\n\nPoland initially held abortion to be legal in 1958 by the communist government, but was later banned after restoration of democracy in 1989. \n\nCurrently, abortion is illegal in all cases except for rape or when the fetus or mother is in fatal conditions. The wide spread of Catholic Church in Poland within the country has made abortion socially 'unacceptable' The Pope has had major influence on the acceptance of abortion within Poland Several landmark court cases have had substantial influence on the current status of abortion, including Tysiac v Poland. Women have slowly lost several reproductive rights while gaining democratic rights. Consequently, several protests have recently happened. Most recently, several women took to the street to protest the abortion ban on Black Monday. Black Monday was not successful in changing the ban on abortion, however it raised awareness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9995394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9995394", "title": "Abu Ubaidah al-Banshiri", "text": "Abu Ubaidah al-Banshiri\n\nAbu Ubaidah al-Banshiri (; May 1950 – May 21, 1996) was the \"nom de guerre\" of Ali Amin al-Rashidi (علي أمين الرشيدي), one of the \"most capable and popular leaders\" of al-Qaeda. \n\nWhen he drowned in a ferry accident on Lake Victoria in 1996, he was the head of al-Qaeda's African presence and second in command of the whole organization, below Osama bin Laden.\n\nAl-Banshiri was born in May 1950 in Cairo, and served as a policeman in Egypt before joining the anti-Soviet effort in Afghanistan, fighting alongside Ahmed Shah Massoud.\n\nHis brother had participated in the assassination of Egyptian President Anwar El Sadat. Ayman al-Zawahiri, head of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, introduced al-Banshiri to Osama Bin Laden, who was so favorably impressed that he made al-Banshiri military commander of the Afghan Arabs. Al-Bashiri's second in command was Mohammed Atef. He was shot in the leg during the 1987 Battle of Jaji.\n\nWhile still in Afghanistan, in August 1988, he attended the founding meeting of al-Qaeda, along with bin Laden, Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, and others.\n\nWhile in Kenya and Tanzania he was known by the aliases Adel Habib, Karim, and Jalal. He married a Kenyan woman and set up a business in Nairobi importing automobiles from the United Arab Emirates.\n\nAt some point al-Banshiri acquired either Dutch citizenship or forged Dutch papers. Prior to 1996, al-Bashiri, Mohammed Atef and Yaseen al-Iraqi aided Enaam Arnaout in purchasing AK-47s and mortar rounds from a Pashtun tribesman named Hajjji Ayoub, and they were subsequently delivered in large trucks to the Jawr and Jihad Wahl training camps.\n\nWhen the news broke that the ferry had sunk in Lake Victoria, al-Qaeda sent Fazul Abdullah Mohammed and Wadih el-Hage to the scene, to verify that al-Banshiri had drowned, and had not been murdered.\n\nAl-Banshiri was succeeded as al-Qaeda's \"military\" commander by another Egyptian ex-policeman, Mohammed Atef, who had been considered his inseparable friend. Al-Banshiri's senior role in East Africa was taken over, at least in part, by Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah.\n\nA poem entitled \"Tears in the Eyes of Time\" was written about al-Banshiri, commemorating him among the greatest of the \"fallen mujahideen\". al-Zawahiri recited the poem in his January 2006 internet broadcast.\n"}
{"id": "633152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=633152", "title": "Alan IV, Duke of Brittany", "text": "Alan IV, Duke of Brittany\n\nAlan IV (born circa 1063; died 13 October 1119) was Duke of Brittany from 1084 until his abdication in 1112. He was also Count of Nantes (from c. 1103) and Count of Rennes. His parents were Duchess Hawise and Duke Hoel II. He is also known as Alan Fergant. Through his father, he was of the Breton House of Cornouaille dynasty (Breton: \"Kerne\" dynasty). He was the last Breton-speaking Duke of Brittany.\n\nA traditional rivalry between Brittany and Normandy continued at the close of the 11th century. The Breton-Norman war of 1064–1065 was the result of William the Bastard, Duke of Normandy (later to become known as William the Conqueror) support of rebels in Brittany against Alan's maternal uncle, Conan II.\n\nConan II died in late 1066 during a campaign in Anjou, and was succeeded by Alan's parents, Conan's sister Hawise and her husband Hoel II. Hoel ruled as regent from Hawise's death in 1072 until Alan reached his majority in 1084.\n\nTo prevent further hostilities during his invasion of England, William I married his daughter Constance to the new duke Alan in 1087. The marriage ceremonies may have taken place in Bayeux in Normandy. William of Malmesbury wrote that Constance was unpopular at the Breton court because of her \"severe and conservative\" manner.\nHowever, Orderic Vitalis wrote that as duchess Constance did all she could to further the welfare of the Bretons, who grieved deeply at her death in 1090.\n\nIn 1092 Alan IV donated property to the abbey of Redon by charter, and by 1093 married Ermengarde of Anjou, as a political alliance with Fulk IV of Anjou to counter Anglo-Norman influence. \nDuke Alan IV's cousin Geoffrey I Boterel (eldest brother of Alan Rufus) died on 24 August 1093 in battle at Dol while in rebellion against the Duke.\n\nBetween 1101 and 1104, Alan's younger brother, Count Matthew II of Nantes, died without issue and his county passed to Alan.\n\nAlan IV abdicated as duke in 1112. The former duke retired to the monastery of Redon, where he died in 1119.\n\nIn 1098 Alan went on the First Crusade, as part of the army of Robert Curthose, leaving Ermengarde as his regent, and returned in 1101.\n\nAlan IV married Constance in 1087. Constance died in 1090. They had no children.\n\nAlan's second marriage was to Ermengarde of Anjou in 1093. With Ermengarde he had three children:\n\nAlan and Ermengarde were separated upon his abdication as duke in 1112.\n\nHe had two illegitimate sons, Brian Fitzcount and Guihomar.\n\nAlan IV died in 1119 at the monastery of Redon, where he had retired after his abdication in 1112, and separation from his wife Ermengarde. His only surviving son, Conan III succeeded him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36693270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36693270", "title": "Albert Bosquet", "text": "Albert Bosquet\n\nAlbert Bosquet (born 1882) was a Belgian sport shooter. Competing for Belgium, he won a silver medal in team clay pigeons at the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp.\n"}
{"id": "28527054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28527054", "title": "Biosatellite program", "text": "Biosatellite program\n\nNASA launched three satellites named Biosatellite 1, 2 and 3 between 1966 and 1969.\n\nNASA's Biosatellite program was a series of three satellites to assess the effects of spaceflight, especially radiation and weightlessness, on living organisms. Each was designed to reenter and be recovered at the end of its mission.\n\nIts primary goal was that it intended to determine effects of space environment, particularly weightlessness, on life processes at three levels of organization: basic biochemistry of the cell; structure of growth of cells and tissues; and growth and form of entire plants and animals.\n\nThe Biosatellite 1, also known as abbreviated Biosat 1 and as Biosatellite A, was a first artificial satellite unmanned U.S. belonging to Biosatellite program for biological research. It was released on December 14, 1966 by a rocket Delta G from Launch Complex 17A of the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. The Biosatellite 1 was the first series Biosatellite satellites. It was released in an initial orbit of 296 km perigee 309 km apogee and 33.5 degrees of orbital inclination, with period 90.5 minutes.\n\nThe Biosatellite 1 was carrying several specimens for the study of the effects of the space environment on biological processes. The capsule was returning to land separated from the vehicle properly, but its rocket did not work, leaving it stranded in a slowly decaying orbit. It re-entered and disintegrated on February 15, 1967.\n\nThe Biosatellite 2, also known as abbreviated as Biosat 2 and as Biosatellite B, was a second artificial satellite unmanned U.S. belonging to Biosatellite program for biological research. It was released on September 7, 1967 by a rocket Delta G Launch Complex 17B of the Air Force from Cape Canaveral station.\n\nThe Biosatellite 2 carried thirteen biological experiments involving insects, frog eggs, plants and microorganisms. The capsule returned early due to a tropical storm threat.\n\nThe Biosatellite 3, also known as abbreviated Biosat 3 and as Biosatellite D, was a third artificial satellite unmanned U.S. belonging to Biosatellite program for biological research.\n\nDespite the seeming failure of the mission's scientific agenda, Biosatellite 3 was influential in shaping the life sciences flight experiment program, pointing to the need for centralised management, realistic goals and substantial pre-flight experiment verification testing. The mission objective was to investigate the effect of space flight on brain states, behavioural performance, cardiovascular status, fluid and electrolyte balance, and metabolic state. Biological capsule reentered in 7 September 1969.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12183205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12183205", "title": "Bobbie Bruce", "text": "Bobbie Bruce\n\nRobert Bruce (29 January 1906 – 1978) was a Scottish footballer. He was born in Paisley.\n\nAn inside left who developed with the Glaswegian junior side St. Anthony's, Bruce spent his senior career with Aberdeen (1924–1928), Middlesbrough F.C. (1928–1935), Sheffield Wednesday F.C. (1935–1936), and Ipswich Town F.C. (1936–1938). His last club was Mossley F.C., where he held the role of player-manager during the 1938–39 season. He played once for the Scottish national team, against Austria in 1933.\n\n"}
{"id": "2992104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2992104", "title": "Brawling (legal definition)", "text": "Brawling (legal definition)\n\nBrawling (probably connected with German language \"brüllen\", to roar, shout), in law, was the offence of quarrelling, or creating a disturbance in a church or churchyard. Brawling was covered in ecclesiastic courts until 1860. It has rarely been prosecuted since then.\n\nDuring the early stages of the Reformation in England religious controversy too often became converted into actual disturbance, and the ritual lawlessness of the clergy very frequently provoked popular violence. To repress these disturbances the Brawling Act 1551 was passed in 1551, by which it was enacted: \"that if any person shall, by words only, quarrel, chide or brawl in any church or churchyard, it shall be lawful for the ordinary of the place where the same shall be done and proved by two lawful witnesses, to suspend any person so offending, if he be a layman, from the entrance of the church, and if he be a clerk, from the ministration of his office, for so long as the said ordinary shall think meet, according to the fault.\"\n\nAn Act of 1553 added the punishment of imprisonment until the party should repent. The Brawling Act 1551 was partly repealed in 1828 and wholly repealed as regards laymen by the Ecclesiastical Courts Jurisdiction Act 1860. Under that Act, which applies to Ireland as well as to England, persons guilty of riotous, violent or indecent behaviour, in churches and chapels of the Church of England or Ireland, or in any chapel of any religious denomination, or in England in any place of religious worship duly certified, or in churchyards or burial-grounds, were liable on conviction before two justices to a penalty of not more than £5, or imprisonment for any term not exceeding two months. This enactment applied to clergy as well as to laity, and a clergyman of the Church of England convicted under it could also be dealt with under the Clergy Discipline Act 1892 (\"Girt v. Fillingham\", 1901, L.R. Prob. 176).\n\nWhen Mr J. Kensit during an ordination service in St Paul's Cathedral \"objected\" to one of the candidates for ordination, on grounds which did not constitute an impediment or notable crime within the meaning of the ordination service, he was held to have unlawfully disturbed the bishop of London in the conduct of the service, and to be liable to conviction under the Act of 1860 (\"Kensit\" v. \"Dean and Chapter of St Paul's\", 1905, L.R. 2 K.B. 249). The public worship of Protestant Dissenters, Roman Catholics and Jews in England had before 1860 been protected by a series of statutes beginning with the Toleration Act of 1689, and ending with the Liberty of Religious Worship Act 1855. These enactments, though not repealed, were for practical purposes superseded by the summary remedy given by the Act of 1860. In Scotland disturbance of public worship is punishable as a breach of the peace (\"Dougall\" v. \"Dykes\", 1861, 4 Irvine 101).\n\nIn British possessions abroad, interference with religious worship was usually dealt with by legislation, and not as a common-law offence. In India it was an offence voluntarily to cause disturbance to any assembly lawfully engaged in the performance of religious worship or religious ceremonies (Penal Code, s. 296). Under the Queensland Criminal Code of 1899 (s. 207) penalties were imposed on persons who wilfully and without lawful justification or excuse (the proof of which lies on them) disquiet or disturb any meeting of persons lawfully assembled for religious worship, or assault any forces lawfully officiating at such meeting, or any of the persons there assembled.\n\nIn the United States disturbance of religious worship is treated as an offence under the common law, which is in many states supplemented by legislation (see Bishop, \"Amer. Crim. Law,\" 8th ed. 1892, vol. i. s. 542, vol. ii. ss. 303-305; California Penal Code, s. 302; \"Revised Laws of Massachusetts\", 1902, chap. 212, s. 30.).\n\nIn 1998, Peter Tatchell of OutRage! was prosecuted for interrupting the Archbishop of Canterbury's Easter sermon with a short gay rights speech. The 1860 legislation (which transferred jurisdiction away from the ecclesiastic courts) was used to try him; his defense focused on the Human Rights Act 1998. He was convicted and fined £18.60 (referring to the 1860 legislation) plus court costs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1866787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1866787", "title": "Byford Dolphin", "text": "Byford Dolphin\n\nByford Dolphin is a semi-submersible, column-stabilised drilling rig operated by Dolphin Drilling, a Fred. Olsen Energy subsidiary, and in 2009 contracted by BP for drilling in the United Kingdom section of the North Sea for three years. It is registered in Hamilton, Bermuda. \n\nThe rig has suffered some serious accidents, most notably an explosive decompression in 1983 that killed four divers and one dive tender, and badly injured another dive tender.\n\n\"Byford Dolphin\" drilling rig is an Enhanced Aker H-3 design which was built by Aker Group at the Aker Verdal shipyard in 1974. Between 1974 and 1978, it was named Deep Sea Driller.\n\n\"Byford Dolphin\" has a length of , breadth of and depth of . It has a maximum drilling depth of , and it could operate at a water depth of . As a drilling rig, \"Byford Dolphin\" is equipped with advanced drilling equipment and has to meet strict levels of certification under Norwegian law. \"Byford Dolphin\" is able to maneuver with its own engines (to counter drift and ocean currents), but for long-distance relocation, it must be moved by specialist tugboats.\n\nOn 1 March 1976, the rig ran aground during transit from a block in the North Sea to Bergen. All crew were evacuated in the life boats, but six people died when they fell from their life boat.\n\nOn 5 November 1983 at 4:00 a.m., while drilling in the Frigg gas field in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea, four divers were in a diving chamber system attached by a trunk (a short passage) to a diving bell on the rig. The divers were Edwin Coward (British, 35 years old), Roy Lucas (British, 38), Bjørn Giæver Bergersen (Norwegian, 29) and Truls Hellevik (Norwegian, 34). They were assisted by two dive tenders, Crammond and Saunders.\n\nHellevik was about to close the door between the chamber system and the trunk when the chamber explosively decompressed from a pressure of nine atmospheres to one atmosphere. One of the tenders, 32-year-old William Crammond of Great Britain, and all four of the divers were killed instantly; the other tender, Saunders, was severely injured.\nThe situation just before this accident was as follows: Decompression chambers 1 and 2 were connected via a trunk to a diving bell. This connection was sealed by a clamp operated by two tenders, who were themselves experienced divers. A third chamber was connected to this system but was not involved. On this day, Coward and Lucas were resting in chamber 2 at a pressure of 9 atm. The diving bell with Bergersen and Hellevik had just been winched up after a dive and joined to the trunk. Leaving their wet gear in the trunk, the divers climbed through the trunk into chamber 1.\n\nThe normal procedure would have been:\n\n\nThe first two steps had been completed when, for an unknown reason, one of the tenders (Crammond) opened the clamp before Diver 4 (Hellevik) could close the door to the chamber. This resulted in the explosive decompression of the unsealed chamber. Air rushed out of the chamber with tremendous force, jamming the interior trunk door and pushing the bell away, striking the two tenders. The tender who opened the clamp was killed while the other was severely injured.\n\nMedical investigations were carried out on the four divers' remains. The most conspicuous finding of the autopsy was large amounts of fat in large arteries and veins and in the cardiac chambers, as well as intravascular fat in organs, especially the liver. This fat was unlikely to be embolic, but must have precipitated from the blood \"in situ\". It is suggested the rapid bubble formation in the blood denatured the lipoprotein complexes, rendering the lipids insoluble. Death of the three divers left intact inside the chambers would have been extremely rapid as circulation was immediately and completely stopped. The fourth diver was dismembered and mutilated by the blast forcing him out through the partially blocked doorway and would have died instantly.\n\nCoward, Lucas, and Bergersen were exposed to the effects of explosive decompression and died in the positions indicated by the diagram. Subsequent investigation by forensic pathologists determined that Hellevik, being exposed to the highest pressure gradient and in the process of moving to secure the inner door, was forced through the diameter opening created by the jammed interior trunk door by escaping air and violently dismembered, including bisection of his thoracoabdominal cavity, which further resulted in expulsion of all of the internal organs of his chest and abdomen, except the trachea and a section of small intestine, and of the thoracic spine. These were projected some distance, one section later being found vertically above the exterior pressure door.\nThe committee investigating the accident concluded that it was caused by human error on the part of the dive tender who opened the clamp. It is not clear whether the tender who opened the clamp before the trunk was depressurized did so by order of his supervisor, on his own initiative, or because of miscommunication. At the time, the only communication the tenders on the outside of the chamber system had was through a bullhorn attached to the wall surface; with heavy noise from the rig and sea, it was hard to listen in on what was going on. Fatigue from many hard hours of work also took its toll among the divers, who often worked 16-hour shifts. \n\nThis incident was also attributed to engineering failure. The obsolete \"Byford Dolphin\" diving system, dating from 1975, was not equipped with fail-safe hatches, outboard pressure gauges, and an interlocking mechanism, which would have prevented the trunk from being opened while the system was under pressure. Prior to the accident, Norske Veritas had issued the following rule for certification: \"Connecting mechanisms between bell and chambers are to be so arranged that they cannot be operated when the trunk is pressurized,\" therefore requiring such systems to have fail-safe seals and interlocking mechanisms. One month after the accident, Norske Veritas and the Norwegian oil directorate made the rule final for all bell systems.\n\nAmong others, former crew members of \"Byford Dolphin\" and NOPEF (a Norwegian oil and petro-chemical union) have come forward and claimed the investigation was a cover-up. They claimed that the commission investigating the accident did not mention in their report the irresponsible dispensations on vital equipment requested by Comex and authorized by the diving section to the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate, which played a vital role in the accident's occurrence. They also alleged the accident was due to a lack of proper equipment, including clamping mechanisms equipped with interlocking mechanisms (which would be impossible to open while the chamber system was still under pressure), outboard pressure gauges, and a safe communication system, all of which had been held back because of dispensations by the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate.\n\nThe conclusions of the investigation were disputed, and a group of divers gathered evidence with the intention of \"find[ing] justice for all of the crew of \"Byford Dolphin\".\" The group formed the North Sea Divers Alliance in the early 1990s and now campaigns for compensation for divers killed or injured in the Norwegian Sector of the North Sea.\n\nThe North Sea Divers Alliance, formed by early North Sea divers and the relatives of those killed, continued to press for further investigation and, in February 2008, obtained a report that indicated the real cause was faulty equipment. Clare Lucas, daughter of Roy Lucas, said: \"I would go so far as to say that the Norwegian Government murdered my father because they knew that they were diving with an unsafe decompression chamber.\" The families of the divers eventually received compensation for the damages from the Norwegian government 26 years after the incident.\n\nOn 17 April 2002, a 44-year-old Norwegian worker on the rig was struck on the head and killed in an industrial accident. The accident resulted in \"Byford Dolphin\" losing an exploration contract with Statoil, which expressed concerns with the rig's operating procedures. The incident cost the company millions of dollars in lost income.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29343046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29343046", "title": "Cleanliness suitability", "text": "Cleanliness suitability\n\nCleanliness suitability describes the suitability of operating materials and ventilation and air conditioning components for use in cleanrooms where the air cleanliness and other parameters are controlled by way of technical regulations. Tests are carried out to determine this.\n\nTrends such as the miniaturization of structures as well as increased levels of reliability in technology, research and science require controlled “clean” manufacturing environments. The task of such environments is to minimize influences which could damage the products concerned. The cleanroom environments created by filtering the air were originally developed for the fields of microelectronics and microsystem technology but are now used in a wide range of other high technology sectors such as photovoltaics and the automotive industry.\n\nDepending upon the industry and process concerned, different factors may have a damaging influence on a product, e.g.:\n\nThe following factors may be responsible for contamination:\n\n"}
{"id": "38358886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38358886", "title": "Computational law", "text": "Computational law\n\nComputational law is a branch of legal informatics concerned with the mechanization of legal reasoning (whether done by humans or by computers). It emphasizes explicit behavioral constraints and eschews implicit rules of conduct. Importantly, there is a commitment to a level of rigor in specifying laws that is sufficient to support entirely mechanical processing.\n\nPhilosophically, computational law sits within the Legal Formalist school of jurisprudence. Given its emphasis on rigorously specified laws, computational law is most applicable in civil law settings, where laws are taken more or less literally. It is less applicable to legal systems based on common law, which provides more scope for unspecified normative considerations. However, even in common law systems, computational law still has relevance in the case of categorical statutes and in settings where the handling of cases has resulted in de facto rules.\n\nFrom a pragmatic perspective, computational law is important as the basis for computer systems capable of doing useful legal calculations, such as compliance checking, legal planning, regulatory analysis, and so forth. Some systems of this sort already exist. TurboTax is a good example. And the potential is particularly significant now due to recent technological advances – including the prevalence of the Internet in human interaction and the proliferation of embedded computer systems (such as smart phones, self-driving cars, and robots).\n\nSpeculation about potential benefits to legal practice through applying methods from computational science and AI research to automate parts of the law date back at least to the middle 1940s. Further, AI and law and computational law do not seem easily separable, as perhaps most of AI research focusing on the law and its automation appears to utilize computational methods. The forms that speculation took are multiple and not all related in ways to readily show closeness to one another. This history will sketch them as they were, attempting to show relationships where they can be found to have existed.\n\nBy 1949, a minor academic field aiming to incorporate electronic and computational methods to legal problems had been founded by American legal scholars, called jurimetrics. Though broadly said to be concerned with the application of the \"methods of science\" to the law, these methods were actually of a quite specifically defined scope. Jurimetrics was to be \"concerned with such matters as the quantitative analysis of judicial behavior, the application of communication and information theory to legal expression, the use of mathematical logic in law, the retrieval of legal data by electronic and mechanical means, and the formulation of a calculus of legal predictability\". These interests led in 1959 to the founding a journal, \"Modern Uses of Logic in Law\", as a forum wherein articles would be published about the applications of techniques such as mathematical logic, engineering, statistics, etc. to the legal study and development. In 1966, this Journal was renamed as \"Jurimetrics.\"\" \"Today, however, the journal and meaning of jurimetrics seems to have broadened far beyond what would fit under the areas of applications of computers and computational methods to law. Today the journal not only publishes articles on such practices as found in computational law, but has broadened jurimetrical concerns to mean also things like the use of social science in law or the \"policy implications [of] and legislative and administrative control of science\".\n\nIndependently in 1958, at the Conference for the Mechanization of Thought held at the National Physical Laboratory in Teddington, Middlesex, UK, the French jurist Lucien Mehl presented a paper both on the benefits of using computational methods for law and on the potential means to use such methods to automate law for a discussion that included AI luminaries like Marvin Minsky. Mehl believed that the law could by automated by two basic distinct, though not wholly separable, types of machine. These were the \"documentary or information machine\", which would provide the legal researcher quick access to relevant case precedents and legal scholarship, and the \"consultation machine\", which would be \"capable of answering any question put to it over a vast field of law\". The latter type of machine would be able to basically do much of a lawyer's job by simply giving the \"exact answer to a [legal] problem put to it\".\n\nBy 1970, Mehl's first type of machine, one that would be able to retrieve information, had been accomplished but there seems to have been little consideration of further fruitful intersections between AI and legal research. There were, however, still hopes that computers could model the lawyer's thought processes through computational methods and then apply that capacity to solve legal problems, thus automating and improving legal services via increased efficiency as well as shedding light on the nature of legal reasoning. By the late 1970s, computer science and the affordability of computer technology had progressed enough that the retrieval of \"legal data by electronic and mechanical means\" had been achieved by machines fitting Mehl's first type and were in common use in American law firms. During this time, research focused on improving the goals of the early 1970s occurred, with programs like \"Taxman\" being worked on in order to both bring useful computer technology into the law as practical aids and to help specify the exact nature of legal concepts.\n\nNonetheless, progress on the second type of machine, one that would more fully automate the law, remained relatively inert. Research into machines that could answer questions in the way that Mehl's consultation machine would picked up somewhat in the late 1970s and 1980s. A 1979 convention in Swansea, Wales marked the first international effort solely to focus upon applying artificial intelligence research to legal problems in order to \"consider how computers can be used to discover and apply the legal norms embedded within the written sources of the law\". That said, little substantial progress seems to have been made in the following decade of the 1980s. In a 1988 review of Anne Gardner's book \"An Artificial Intelligence Approach to Legal Reasoning \"(1987), the Harvard academic legal scholar and computer scientist Edwina Rissland wrote that \"She plays, in part, the role of pioneer; artificial intelligence (\"AI\") techniques have not yet been widely applied to perform legal tasks. Therefore, Gardner, and this review, first describe and define the field, then demonstrate a working model in the domain of contract offer and acceptance.\" Eight years after the Swansea conference had passed, and still AI and law researchers merely trying to delineate the field could be described by their own kind as \"pioneer[s]\".\n\nIn the 1990s and early 2000s more progress occurred. Computational research generated insights for law. The First International Conference on AI and the Law occurred it 1987, but it is in the 1990s and 2000s that the biannual conference began to build up steam and to delve more deeply into the issues involved with work intersecting computational methods, AI, and law. Classes began to be taught to undergraduates on the uses of computational methods to automating, understanding, and obeying the law. Further, by 2005, a team largely composed of Stanford computer scientists from the Stanford Logic group had devoted themselves to studying the uses of computational techniques to the law. Computational methods in fact advanced enough that members of the legal profession began in the 2000s to both analyze, predict and worry about the potential future of computational law and a new academic field of computational legal studies seems to be now well established. As insight into what such scholars see in the law's future due in part to computational law, here is quote from a recent conference about the \"New Normal\" for the legal profession:\n\nMany see perks to oncoming changes brought about by the computational automation of law. For one thing, legal experts have predicted that it will aid legal self-help, especially in the areas of contract formation, enterprise planning, and the prediction of rule changes. For another thing, those with knowledge about computers see the potential for computational law to really fully bloom as eminent. In this vein, it seems that machines like Mehl's second type may come into existence. Stephen Wolfram has said that:\n\nThere have also been many attempts to create a machine readable or machine executable legal code. A machine readable code would simplify the analysis of legal code, allowing the rapid construction and analysis of databases, without the need for advanced text processing techniques. A machine executable format would allow the specifics of a case to be input, and would return the decision based on the case.\n\nMachine readable legal code is already quite common. METAlex, an XML-based standard proposed and developed by the Leibniz Center for Law of the University of Amsterdam, is used by the governments of both the United Kingdom and the Netherlands to encode their laws. In the United States, an executive order issued by President Barack Obama in the May 2013 mandated that all public government documentation be released in a machine readable format by default, although no specific format was mentioned.\n\nMachine executable legal code is much less common. Notable among current efforts is the Hammurabi Project, an attempt to rewrite parts of the United States legal code in such a way that a law can take facts as input and return decisions. The Hammurabi Project currently focuses on the aspects of law that lend themselves to this type of specification, such as tax or immigration laws, although in the long-term the developers of the Hammurabi Project plan to include as many laws as possible.\n\nMany current efforts in computational law are focused on the empirical analysis of legal decisions, and their relation to legislation. These efforts usually make use of citation analysis, which examines patterns in citations between works. Due to the widespread practice of legal citation, it is possible to construct citation indices and large graphs of legal precedent, called citation networks. Citation networks allow the use of graph traversal algorithms in order to relate cases to one another, as well as the use of various distance metrics to find mathematical relationships between them. These analyses can reveal important overarching patterns and trends in judicial proceedings and the way law is used.\n\nThere have been several breakthroughs in the analysis of judicial rulings in recent research on legal citation networks. These analyses have made use of citations in Supreme Court majority opinions to build citation networks, and analyzed the patterns in these networks to identify meta-information about individual decisions, such as the importance of the decision, as well as general trends in judicial proceedings, such as the role of precedent over time. These analyses have been used to predict which cases the Supreme Court will choose to consider.\n\nAnother effort has examined United States Tax Court decisions, compiling a publicly available database of Tax Court decisions, opinions, and citations between the years of 1990 and 2008, and constructing a citation network from this database. Analysis of this network revealed that large sections of the tax code were rarely, if ever, cited, and that other sections of code, such as those that dealt with \"divorce, dependents, nonprofits, hobby and business expenses and losses, and general definition of income,\" were involved the vast majority of disputes.\n\nSome research has also been focused on hierarchical networks, in combination with citation networks, and the analysis of United States Code. This research has been used to analyze various aspects of the Code, including its size, the density of citations within and between sections of the Code, the type of language used in the Code, and how these features vary over time. This research has been used to provide commentary on the nature of the Code's change over time, which is characterized by an increase in size and in interdependence between sections.\n\nVisualization of legal code, and of the relationships between various laws and decisions, is also a hot topic in computational law. Visualizations allow both professionals and laypeople to see large-scale relationships and patterns, which may be difficult to see using standard legal analysis or empirical analysis.\n\nLegal citation networks lend themselves to visualization, and many citation networks which are analyzed empirically also have sub-sections of the network that are represented visually as a result. However, there are still many technical problems in network visualization. The density of connections between nodes, and the sheer number of nodes in some cases, can make the visualization incomprehensible to humans. There are a variety of methods that can be used to reduce the complexity of the displayed information, for example by defining semantic sub-groups within the network, and then representing relationships between these semantic groups, rather than between every node. This allows the visualization to be human readable, but the reduction in complexity can obscure relationships. Despite this limitation, visualization of legal citation networks remains a popular field and practice.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47038711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47038711", "title": "Cotton Coulson", "text": "Cotton Coulson\n\nCotton Coulson (1952 – May 27, 2015 in Tromsø, Norway) was a photographer known for his work for \"National Geographic\" magazine.\n\nCoulson graduated from New York University Film School in 1975, and was hired by \"National Geographic\" in 1976, after having begun contributing to them as a freelancer in 1975.\n\nHe also worked at the \"Baltimore Sun\", where he was a director of photography, and at \"U.S. News & World Report\", where he was an associate director of photography.\n\nIn 1996, he collaborated with Rick Smolan on Smolan's \"24 Hours in Cyberspace\" project; he subsequently joined CNET, where he was senior vice-president of creative services until 1999, at which point he was promoted to vice president and executive producer.\n\nOn May 24, 2015, Coulson was scuba diving in the waters of the Svalbard Archipelago as part of a photography assignment, when he signaled to his diving partner that he needed to surface immediately.\nBy the time they emerged from the water, he was unresponsive; CPR was performed, but he died in hospital three days later, without having ever regained consciousness.\n\nCoulson was married to fellow photographer Sisse Brimberg, who was also his professional partner; they met at a photography seminar in 1976.\n\nHe was named for Cotton Mather.\n\n"}
{"id": "1214420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1214420", "title": "Death of Azaria Chamberlain", "text": "Death of Azaria Chamberlain\n\nAzaria Chamberlain (11 June 1980 – 17 August 1980) was an Australian 2-month-old baby girl who was killed by a dingo on the night of 17 August 1980 on a family camping trip to Uluru (formerly known as Ayers Rock) in the Northern Territory. Her body was never found. Her parents, Lindy and Michael Chamberlain, reported that she had been taken from their tent by a dingo. Lindy Chamberlain was, however, tried for murder and spent more than three years in prison. She was released when a piece of Azaria's clothing was found near a dingo lair, and new inquests were opened. In 2012, 32 years after Azaria's death, the Chamberlains' version of events was officially supported by a coroner.\n\nAn initial inquest held in Alice Springs supported the parents' claim and was highly critical of the police investigation. The findings of the inquest were broadcast live on television—a first in Australia. Subsequently, after a further investigation and a second inquest held in Darwin, Lindy Chamberlain was tried for murder, convicted on 29 October 1982 and sentenced to life imprisonment. Azaria's father, Michael Chamberlain, was convicted as an accessory after the fact and given a suspended sentence. The media focus for the trial was unusually intense and aroused accusations of sensationalism, while the trial itself was criticised for being unprofessional and biased. The Chamberlains made several unsuccessful appeals, including the final High Court appeal.\n\nAfter all legal options had been exhausted, the chance discovery in 1986 of a piece of Azaria's clothing in an area full of dingo lairs led to Lindy Chamberlain's release from prison. On 15 September 1988, the Northern Territory Court of Criminal Appeals unanimously overturned all convictions against Lindy and Michael Chamberlain. A third inquest was conducted in 1995, which resulted in an \"open\" finding. At a fourth inquest held on 12 June 2012, Coroner Elizabeth Morris delivered her findings that Azaria Chamberlain had been taken and killed by a dingo. After being released, Lindy Chamberlain was paid $1.3 million for false imprisonment and an amended death certificate was issued immediately.\n\nNumerous books have been written about the case. The story has been made into a TV movie, a feature film, \"Evil Angels\" (released outside of Australia and New Zealand as \"A Cry in the Dark\"), a TV miniseries, a play by Brooke Pierce, a concept album by Australian band The Paradise Motel and an opera, \"Lindy\", by Moya Henderson.\n\nThe initial coronial inquest into the disappearance was opened in Alice Springs on 15 December 1980 before magistrate Denis Barritt. On 20 February 1981, in the first live telecast of Australian court proceedings, Barritt ruled that the likely cause was a dingo attack. In addition to this finding, Barritt also concluded that, subsequent to the attack, \"the body of Azaria was taken from the possession of the dingo, and disposed of by an unknown method, by a person or persons, name unknown\".\n\nThe Northern Territory Police and prosecutors were dissatisfied with this finding. Investigations continued, leading to a second inquest in Darwin in September 1981. Based on ultraviolet photographs of Azaria's jumpsuit, James Cameron of the London Hospital Medical College alleged that \"there was an incised wound around the neck of the jumpsuit—in other words, a cut throat\" and that there was an imprint of the hand of a small adult on the jumpsuit, visible in the photographs. Following this and other findings, the Chamberlains were charged with Azaria's murder.\n\nIn 1995, a third inquest was conducted which failed to determine a cause of death, resulting in an \"open\" finding.\n\nIn December 2011 the Northern Territory coroner, Elizabeth Morris, announced that a fourth inquest would be held in February 2012. On 12 June 2012 at a fourth coronial inquest into the disappearance of Azaria Chamberlain, Morris ruled that a dingo was responsible for her death in 1980. Morris made the finding in the light of subsequent reports of dingo attacks on humans causing injury and death. She stated, \"Azaria Chamberlain died at Ayers Rock, on 17 August 1980. The cause of her death was as a result of being attacked and taken by a dingo.\" Morris offered her condolences to the parents and brothers of Azaria Chamberlain \"on the death of [their] special and dearly loved daughter and sister\" and stated that a death certificate with the cause of death had been registered.\n\nThe Crown alleged that Lindy Chamberlain had cut Azaria's throat in the front seat of the family car, hiding the baby's body in a large camera case. She then, according to the proposed reconstruction of the crime, rejoined the group of campers around a campfire and fed one of her sons a can of baked beans, before going to the tent and raising the cry that a dingo had taken the baby. It was alleged that at a later time, while other people from the campsite were searching, she disposed of the body.\n\nThe key evidence supporting this allegation was the jumpsuit, as well as a highly contentious forensic report claiming to have found evidence of foetal haemoglobin in stains on the front seat of the Chamberlains' 1977 Torana hatchback. Foetal haemoglobin is present in infants six months and younger; Azaria was nine weeks old at the time of her disappearance.\n\nLindy Chamberlain was questioned about the garments that Azaria was wearing. She claimed that Azaria was wearing a matinee jacket over the jumpsuit, but the jacket was not present when the garments were found. She was questioned about the fact that Azaria's singlet, which was inside the jumpsuit, was inside out. She insisted that she never put a singlet on her babies inside out and that she was most particular about this. The statement conflicted with the state of the garments when they were collected as evidence. The garments had been arranged by the investigating officer for a photograph.\n\nIn her defence, eyewitness evidence was presented of dingoes having been seen in the area on the evening of 17 August 1980. All witnesses claimed to believe the Chamberlains' story. One witness, a nurse, also reported having heard a baby's cry after the time when the prosecution alleged Azaria had been murdered. Evidence was also presented that adult blood also passed the test used for foetal haemoglobin, and that other organic compounds can produce similar results on that particular test, including mucus from the nose and chocolate milkshakes, both of which had been present in the vehicle where Azaria was allegedly murdered.\n\nEngineer Les Harris, who had conducted dingo research for over a decade, said that, contrary to Cameron's findings, a dingo's carnassial teeth can shear through material as tough as motor vehicle seat belts. He also cited an example of a captive female dingo removing a bundle of meat from its wrapping paper and leaving the paper intact. Evidence was also presented to the effect that a dingo was strong enough to carry a kangaroo and a report of the removal of a three-year-old girl by a dingo from the back seat of a tourist's motor vehicle at the camping area just weeks before, an event witnessed by the parents.\n\nThe defence's case was rejected by the jury. Lindy Chamberlain was convicted of murder on 29 October 1982 and sentenced to life imprisonment. Michael Chamberlain was found guilty as an accessory after the fact and was given an 18-month suspended sentence.\n\nAn unsuccessful appeal was made to the Federal Court in April 1983. Subsequently the High Court of Australia were asked to quash the convictions on the ground that the verdicts were unsafe and unsatisfactory. However, in February 1984 the court refused the appeal by majority.\n\nThe final resolution of the case was triggered by a chance discovery. In early 1986, English tourist David Brett fell to his death from Uluru during an evening climb. Because of the vast size of the rock and the scrubby nature of the surrounding terrain, it was eight days before Brett's remains were discovered, lying below the bluff where he had lost his footing and in an area full of dingo lairs. As police searched the area, looking for missing bones that might have been carried off by dingoes, they discovered a small item of clothing. It was quickly identified as the crucial missing piece of evidence from the Chamberlain case, Azaria's missing matinee jacket.\n\nThe Chief Minister of the Northern Territory ordered Lindy Chamberlain's immediate release and the case was reopened. On 15 September 1988, the Northern Territory Court of Criminal Appeals unanimously overturned all convictions against Lindy and Michael Chamberlain. The exoneration was based on a rejection of two key points of the prosecution's case and of biased and invalid assumptions made during the initial trial.\n\nThe questionable nature of the forensic evidence in the Chamberlain trial, and the weight given to it, raised concerns about such procedures and about expert testimony in criminal cases. The prosecution had successfully argued that the pivotal haemoglobin tests indicated the presence of foetal haemoglobin in the Chamberlains' car and it was a significant factor in the original conviction. But it was later shown that these tests were highly unreliable and that similar tests, conducted on a \"sound deadener\" sprayed on during the manufacture of the car, had yielded virtually identical results.\n\nTwo years after they were exonerated, the Chamberlains were awarded $1.3 million in compensation for wrongful imprisonment, a sum that covered less than one third of their legal expenses.\n\nThe findings of the third coroner's inquest were released on 13 December 1995; the coroner found \"the cause and manner of death as unknown.\"\n\nThe findings of the fourth coroner's inquest were released on 12 June 2012; the coroner found that:\nThe Chamberlain trial was the most publicised in Australian history. Given that most of the evidence presented in the case against Lindy Chamberlain was later rejected, the case is now used as an example of how media and bias can adversely affect a trial.\n\nPublic and media opinion during the trial was polarised, with \"fanciful rumours and sickening jokes\" and many cartoons. In particular, antagonism was directed towards Lindy Chamberlain for reportedly not behaving like a \"stereotypical\" grieving mother. Much was made of the Chamberlains' Seventh-day Adventist religion, including false allegations that the church was actually a cult that killed infants as part of bizarre religious ceremonies, that the family took a newborn baby to a remote desert location, and that Lindy Chamberlain showed little emotion during the proceedings.\n\nOne anonymous tip was received from a man, falsely claiming to be Azaria's doctor in Mount Isa, that the name \"Azaria\" meant \"sacrifice in the wilderness\" (it actually means \"God helped\"). Others claimed that Lindy Chamberlain was a witch.\n\nThe press appeared to seize upon any point that could be sensationalised. For example, it was reported that Lindy Chamberlain dressed her baby in a black dress. This provoked negative opinion, despite the trends of the early 1980s, during which black and navy cotton girls' dresses were in fashion, often trimmed with brightly coloured ribbon, or printed with brightly coloured sprigs of flowers.\n\nSince the Chamberlain case, proven cases of attacks on humans by dingoes have been discussed in the public domain, in particular dingo attacks on Fraser Island (off the Queensland coast), the last refuge in Australia for isolated pure-bred wild dingoes. In the wake of these attacks, it emerged that there had been at least 400 documented dingo attacks on Fraser Island. Most were against children, but at least two were on adults. For example, in April 1998, a 13-month-old girl was attacked by a dingo and dragged for about one metre (3 ft) from a picnic blanket at the Waddy Point camping area. The child was dropped when her father intervened.\n\nIn July 2004, Frank Cole, a Melbourne pensioner, claimed that he had shot a dingo in 1980 and found a baby in its mouth. After interviewing Cole on the matter, police decided not to reopen the case. He claimed to have the ribbons from the jacket which Azaria had been wearing when she disappeared as proof of his involvement. However, Lindy Chamberlain claimed that the jacket had no ribbons on it. Cole's credibility was further damaged when it was revealed he had made unsubstantiated claims about another case.\n\nIn August 2005, a 25-year-old woman named Erin Horsburgh claimed that she was Azaria Chamberlain, but her claims were rejected by the authorities and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's \"Media Watch\" programme, which stated that none of the reports linking Horsburgh to the Chamberlain case had any substance.\n\nIn 2008, the Holden Torana car that was tested for Azaria's blood in the original court case was used in the wedding of Aidan Chamberlain, Azaria's brother, who was six when his sister disappeared. His bride arrived at the ceremony in the car and his father, Michael Chamberlain, said that he was proud the couple had chosen to use the car which was the centrepiece of the case.\n\nThe cause of Azaria Chamberlain's disappearance was determined and announced on 12 June 2012. The Northern Territory coroner officially amended her death certificate to show that the cause of death \"was as the result of being attacked and taken by a dingo\".\n\nThe Chamberlains divorced in 1991 and both remarried other people. Lindy and her second husband lived for a time in the United States and New Zealand but have since returned to Australia.\n\nMichael Chamberlain died after a long battle with leukaemia on 9 January 2017, aged 72.\n\nThe National Museum of Australia has in its collection more than 250 items related to the disappearance of Azaria Chamberlain, which Lindy Chamberlain has helped document. Items include courtroom sketches by artists Jo Darbyshire and Veronica O'Leary, camping equipment, a piece of the dashboard from the Chamberlain family's car, outfits worn by Lindy Chamberlain, the number from her prison door, and the black dress worn by Azaria. The National Library of Australia has a small collection of items relating to Azaria, such as her birth records and her hospital identification bracelet, as well as a manuscript collection which includes around 20,000 documents including some of the Chamberlain family's correspondence and a large number of letters from the general public.\n\nThe story has been the subject of several books, films and television shows, and other publications and accounts. John Bryson's book \"Evil Angels\" was published in 1985, and in 1988, Australian film director Fred Schepisi adapted the book into a feature film of the same name (released as \"A Cry in the Dark\" outside of Australia and New Zealand). It starred Meryl Streep as Lindy Chamberlain and Sam Neill as Michael Chamberlain. The film gave Streep her eighth Academy Award nomination and her first AFI award.\n\nIn 2002, \"Lindy\", an opera by Moya Henderson, was produced by Opera Australia at the Sydney Opera House.\n\nThe story was dramatised as a TV miniseries, \"Through My Eyes\" (2004), with Miranda Otto and Craig McLachlan as the Chamberlains. This miniseries was based on Lindy Chamberlain's book of the same name.\n\nThe incident was transmuted from tragedy to morbid comedy material for American shows such as \"Seinfeld\", \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" and \"The Simpsons\", and \"became deeply embedded in American pop culture\" with phrases such as \"A dingo's got my baby!\" serving as \"a punchline you probably remember hearing before you knew exactly what a dingo was.\"\n\nThe incident was referenced in the \"Simpsons\" episode, \"Bart vs. Australia\", where Bart receives a phone call from Australia about a $900 phone bill that he had caused. Before hanging up the phone Bart says, \"Hey, I think I hear a dingo eating your baby\". It also was referenced in the \"Rugrats\" film \"The Rugrats Movie\" when, after the children go missing, a news reporter briefly asks Didi if it was true that a dingo ate her baby.\n\nIn 2010, Australian rock band The Paradise Motel released the album \"Australian Ghost Story\", a concept album about the disappearance and death of Azaria Chamberlain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3049956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3049956", "title": "Death of Joe Cinque", "text": "Death of Joe Cinque\n\nThe death of Joe Cinque occurred in Canberra, Australian Capital Territory on 26 October 1997. Cinque's coffee was laced with rohypnol, a sedative, at a dinner party, after which he was injected with a lethal dose of heroin by his girlfriend Anu Singh, who was a law student at the Australian National University at the time. \n\nSingh was convicted in 1999 of manslaughter. She was sentenced to ten years' imprisonment, but was released early in 2001. Since her release, she has undertaken criminology research. \n\nThe crime was portrayed in Helen Garner's celebrated non-fiction book \"Joe Cinque's Consolation\" (2004), which was later adapted into a film of the same name.\n\nCinque and Singh met in Newcastle, New South Wales in 1995. The following year, Singh and Cinque were living together in Canberra while she was a law student at the Australian National University. During the 1998 trial, one of Singh's friends testified that she had been highly obsessed with her self-image, particularly her body, since 1991 and had briefly taken ipecac after Cinque mentioned it, something she was later angry with him for. Singh was reportedly obsessed with fad diets and would spend hours working out at the gym—she had told friends \"she'd rather be dead than fat\".\n\nIn May 1997 Singh told a friend that she wanted to kill several people, including Cinque, her ex-boyfriend Simon Walsh and her doctors.\n\nSingh's close friend Madhavi Rao invited acquaintances to two dinner parties in October 1997 and told them that a crime would be committed. Witness Sanjeeva Tennekoon reported that the first dinner party on 24 October was normal and that Singh and Cinque appeared loving. However, another witness told the court that Rao had told her afterwards that Singh had tried to kill Cinque that evening but did not deliver a sufficient dose, and that the witness had threatened to go to the police. The day after the first dinner party, Singh and Rao went to a friend, Len Mancini, and told him they had given Cinque drugs the previous evening.\n\nCinque died on 26 October 1997, the morning after the second dinner party. Toxicology reports showed high levels of heroin and rohypnol in his body.\n\nWitness Ross Manley claimed that Singh bought more heroin from Manley's friend on the morning of 26 October. Singh called an ambulance for Cinque at 12:10pm on 26 October, and the ambulance officers found that he had had a cardiac arrest. Singh made it difficult for the ambulance to respond quickly, giving a false address. Singh told police at the scene that she had administered drugs to Cinque. Police reported that when they arrived at the scene, Singh was hysterical and struggled with police and ambulance officers when they took her away from Cinque's body.\n\nSingh first appeared in court on 28 October 1997, charged with murder. She had told police that she had injected Cinque with heroin so that he would not interfere with a suicide attempt. Rao was charged with conspiracy to commit murder and released on bail on 5 November. The prosecutor noted that both Singh and Rao had been indiscreet about their actions. Singh applied for bail in December, and a psychiatrist presented evidence of a personality disorder. The prosecution pinpointed Singh as someone who embodied strong narcissistic traits. \n\nSingh and Rao were tried jointly in October and November 1998, but this trial was aborted on 11 November, with Justice Ken Crispin saying that one of the pieces of evidence was problematic as it was unclear as to which of Singh or Rao it was admissible against. For the second trial, Singh elected to stand trial by judge alone, forgoing a jury. Justice Crispin ruled that Singh and Rao should be tried separately in the interest of fairness.\nIn her 1999 trial, Singh's defence presented evidence that she was mentally ill and had diminished responsibility, proposing an insanity defense. The court was told that Singh believed she was dying from a muscle wasting disease, complained of \"not being able to feel her head on her body\" and was bulimic. The prosecutors called an expert witness to testify that Singh had appeared rational and assertive on the night she was arrested. On 23 April Justice Crispin found Singh guilty of manslaughter and the following day sentenced her to ten years' imprisonment with a minimum four years non-parole period. Cinque's mother was deeply unhappy with the short sentence. In Rao's second trial, she was charged with murder, manslaughter, attempted murder, and administering a stupefying drug and was acquitted of all charges.\n\nSingh was released on parole in October 2001 after four years imprisonment, including time she had served on remand since 1997. She was returned to jail in April 2004 after breaching her parole conditions by smoking marijuana and re-released on 5 August 2004 after challenging her re-imprisonment on a technicality.\n\nAnu Singh was born in India on 3 September 1972 to Indian Australian parents, Pradyumn \"Paddy\" and Surinder Singh, both doctors. The family emigrated from India to Sydney in 1973, when Singh was a baby. They settled in the suburb of Strathfield. Singh attended a Catholic high school in Newcastle, where she was the dux of year 10 in 1988. She graduated high school in 1990 and moved to Canberra the following year to begin studying a double degree in Economics/Law at the Australian National University. Singh missed her life in Sydney, engaged in recreational drug use while living in Canberra, and frequently called home to her parents. As a result, she deferred her studies for one year to return to her family in Sydney.\n\nSingh's early life was relatively unremarkable, and her father remarked on her as a \"happy-go-lucky child\" \"albeit\" one with some attachment issues, who gradually descended into mental illness in her twenties. According to Paddy Singh, Anu's problems escalated in 1995. It was around this time she had an affair with Joe Cinque. After Singh's break-up with an ex-boyfriend, Simon Walsh, as a result of her brief affair with Cinque, she began to use recreational drugs daily, developed insomnia and would pace the house at night. Singh's break-up with Walsh was referred to as a \"significant life event\" in the court transcripts of her trial. \n\nDuring her relationship with Cinque, she was dieting excessively and would obsess about her weight. Singh's problems appeared to stabilise briefly during the early days of her relationship with Cinque, but soon returned after they moved in together. Her university attendance became sporadic, and on the rare occasion when she was seen by her peers, she appeared to be \"dishevelled\" and \"poorly dressed\"—in contrast to her earlier generally immaculate and prideful dress sense. Singh's father took her to various psychologists and psychiatrists for help, who opined Singh's problem was \"psychological\", not \"physical\", as she had indignantly believed. In her teenage diary entries unearthed during the trial, Singh described herself as a \"confirmed bitch, vain, materialistic, self-opinionated, lascivious\". She further wrote about the power she believed she had over men, which was used for her own gratification.\n\nSingh has completed a masters in criminology at Sydney University, having attended classes on day release from Emu Plains Correctional Centre.\n\nIn June 2005, concern was expressed in the New South Wales Parliament about Singh's employment with the Cabramatta Community Centre. The public was reassured that Singh was not employed to distribute clean injecting equipment and that her employment was on a time-limited project.\n\nIn 2010 Singh began research at the University of Sydney Faculty of Law, and in 2012 was awarded a doctorate for her thesis \"Offending Women: Toward a Greater Understanding of Women's Pathways Into and Out of Crime in Australia\". It outlines \"five major pathways that led [female prisoners] to crime: unstable upbringings, sexual and physical abuse, drug use, economic marginality and mental illness\". An edited version was released as a self-published e-book in 2016.\n\nShe met her current partner, Aaron Erbacher, while in the Belconnen remand centre in 1998. They have been in a relationship since then.\n\nThe crime has been adapted into works by several authors and filmmakers. The most well-known example is Helen Garner's 2004 book \"Joe Cinque's Consolation\", published in the same month as Singh's re-release from prison, which was a widely publicised account of Singh's crime and trial, together with the Cinque family's response to it. Singh gave interviews shortly after the release of the book, recounting her own memories of the killing and expressing regret at rejecting Garner's request for an interview. She told interviewers that she wished to redress some of the book's imbalance towards her.\n\nIn 2005, a documentary was being made about Singh by James Ricketson which covered her employment in Cabramatta. The documentary was reportedly to be called \"Atonement\".\n\nIn 2012, it was announced that Garner's book would be turned into a film to be directed by Canberran Sotiris Dounoukos. Dounoukos was at ANU studying law at the same time as Singh; she was \"a friend of friends\". The film would be partially funded by Screen Australia. The film, also called \"Joe Cinque's Consolation\", was given a cinematic release on 13 October 2016 to generally positive critical attention. Singh was portrayed by actress Maggie Naouri.\n\nOther works based on the death of Joe Cinque include:\n"}
{"id": "32684174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32684174", "title": "Death of Mark Duggan", "text": "Death of Mark Duggan\n\nMark Duggan, a 29-year-old British man, was shot and fatally wounded by police in Tottenham, North London, England, on 4 August 2011. The Metropolitan Police stated that officers were attempting to arrest Duggan on suspicion of planning an attack, and that he was in possession of a handgun. Duggan died from a gunshot wound to the chest. The circumstances of Duggan's death resulted in public protests in Tottenham, which led to conflict with police and escalated into riots across London and other English cities.\n\nDuggan was under investigation by Operation Trident, a subdivision of the Metropolitan Police. He was accused of carrying a BBM Bruni Model 92 handgun (a blank-firing replica of a Beretta 92 converted to fire live rounds), given to him by Kevin Hutchinson-Foster, fifteen minutes before he was shot. A trial of Hutchinson-Foster in September–October 2012 yielded new evidence and reports on the case, but the jury failed to reach a verdict. At his re-trial, on 31 January 2013, Hutchinson-Foster was convicted of supplying Duggan with the gun. The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) has been investigating the case but has delayed release of its report for more than a year. A public inquest on the Duggan death began on 16 September 2013, and ended on 8 January 2014 with an 8–2 majority concluding that Duggan's death was a lawful killing.\n\nThe official account of Duggan's death has undergone numerous changes, drawing criticism and suspicion from his family, residents of Tottenham, and other supporters. These critics accuse police of misconduct and of failing to cooperate with those investigating Duggan's death. Shortcomings in the police response have also been blamed for stoking the riots, and for fueling ongoing discontent, with Duggan's supporters stating \"there can be no peace without justice\".\n\nMark Duggan was born on 15 September 1981 and grew up in Broadwater Farm, north London. His parents were of mixed English and West Indian descent. Between the ages of 12–17, he lived with his maternal aunt Carole in Manchester. His maternal aunt Julie was married to Manchester gangland boss Desmond Noonan.\n\nAt the time of his death, Duggan and his long-term partner Semone Wilson had three children together, aged 10 years, 7 years, and 18 months. He had a fourth child with another woman, and a third woman was pregnant with his baby at the time of his death. He fathered six children in total, the youngest of whom was born after his death.\n\nDuggan had worked at Stansted Airport, and had applied for a job as a firefighter, according to his cousin.\n\nAccording to Tony Thompson of the \"London Evening Standard\", Duggan may have been a founding member of North London's \"Star Gang\", an offshoot of the Tottenham Mandem gang. Unnamed police sources alleged via \"The Daily Telegraph\" that Duggan was a \"well known gangster\" and a \"major player and well known to the police in Tottenham\".\n\nOfficers attached to Operation Trident had Duggan under surveillance; police stated that they suspected Duggan was planning to commit a crime in retaliation for the killing of his cousin, Kelvin Easton, who was stabbed to death outside a bar in East London in March 2011. Duggan was described as having been increasingly paranoid as a consequence of his cousin's death. \"The Daily Telegraph\" alleged that Duggan was bound to avenge his cousin's death by the \"street code\" of the gang.\n\nAfter Duggan's death, he was described as a drug dealer by the police and others, an allegation denied by his family and friends. Duggan's family said the allegations against Duggan were \"disinformation\", and that he was \"not a gang member and he had no criminal record\". But Duggan had been convicted of cannabis possession and handling stolen goods. His fiancée said he had spent time on remand.\n\nOfficers of the Metropolitan Police Service stopped a minicab which was carrying Duggan as a passenger at about 18:15 BST on 4 August 2011. There was no CCTV coverage of the place where they stopped the cab, and some witnesses allege that police chased away onlookers.\n\nAccording to an unnamed firearms officer at the trial of Kevin Hutchinson-Foster in September 2012, Duggan pivoted out of the cab and pulled a selfloading pistol or handgun from his waistband. According to the taxi driver, who was granted anonymity at the subsequent inquest, Duggan left the car and ran:\n\nThe taxi driver told the inquest that an armed officer had threatened to shoot him if he did not stop looking at where Duggan had fallen to the ground and was being handled \"quite harsh[ly] and callous[ly]\" by officers.\n\nThe police fired twice, hitting Duggan in the biceps and chest, killing him. A firearm was not found on Duggan after he had been shot. Paramedics from the London Ambulance Service and medical staff from London's Air Ambulance attended, but Duggan was pronounced dead at the scene at 18:41 BST.\n\nThe police who shot Duggan were part of the Specialist Firearms Command (CO19), accompanying officers from Operation Trident.\n\nAccording to one eyewitness cited by \"The Independent,\" Duggan \"was shot while he was pinned to the floor by police\" – though evidence in the inquest since contradicts this. According to another eyewitness cited in \"The Telegraph\", a police officer had \"shouted to the man to stop 'a couple of times', but he had not heeded the warning\". According to a witness cited by the BBC, a police officer twice shouted: \"Put it down\" before Duggan was shot. However, the taxi driver who was travelling with Duggan told the inquest the police shouted no warning before shooting. A Metropolitan Police Federation representative asserted that the officer who killed Duggan had \"an honest-held belief that he was in imminent danger of him and his colleagues being shot\".\n\nOne of the officers who had surrounded Duggan was hit by a bullet, which had lodged in his radio. However, it had not been fired by Duggan but by the policeman identified only as V53, before it passed through Duggan's arm and hit the officer. The shot policeman was taken to a hospital and released the same evening.\n\nPolice proceeded to move the taxi in which Duggan had been traveling. After some dispute over when the vehicle was moved, it was stated that police moved the taxi for examination and then returned it to the scene. A local equality advocate said that the IPCC initially had no knowledge of these events, but later stated that it had sanctioned removal of the vehicle and then requested that it be restored to the scene.\n\nAn initial \"short-form\" report of the incident—filed by an officer identified as \"W70\"—did not say that Duggan had raised a gun. W70 filed another report 48 hours later which described Duggan drawing a gun from his waistband. (Officer W70 later testified that short-form reports are \"deliberately brief\".)\n\nPolice did not inform Duggan's family of his death until a day and a half after he was killed. The police later apologised for this delay.\n\nInitially, a spokesman of the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) stated that they \"understand the officer was shot first before [Duggan] was shot;\" police later called this statement a mistake. A bullet was found embedded in a radio worn by a policeman, and ballistics tests on the projectile indicate it was a \"jacketed round\", or police issue bullet fired from a Heckler & Koch MP5 semi-automatic carbine used by the police. Its presence may have been due to a ricochet or overpenetration.\n\nThe IPCC had commissioned tests on the pistol by the Forensic Science Service and had received advice that it was an illegal firearm. The gun was wrapped in a sock, a practice allegedly used to avoid leaving evidence if it was used. The IPCC announced on 9 August that there was no evidence that the gun had been fired, that this had not been ruled out and further tests were being conducted.\n\nOn 18 November 2011, the IPCC announced that the 9mm gun associated with the scene of the killing had been found 10–14 feet away, on the other side of a fence. QC Michael Mansfield, barrister for the Duggan family, told the IPCC that witnesses had told him they saw police throw the gun over the fence. The IPCC initially reported that three officers had also witnessed an officer throw the gun, but later retracted this report.\n\nIt was also announced on 18 November 2011 that the IPCC would investigate whether the same gun had been used in an incident 6 days earlier, on 29 July 2011, when barber Peter Osadebay was assaulted in Hackney by 30-year-old Kevin Hutchinson-Foster after Hutchinson-Foster brandished a gun. On 31 January 2013, Kevin Hutchinson-Foster was found guilty of supplying the gun to Duggan, during which he admitted using the same weapon to beat Osadebay. Duggan's fingerprints were found on a cardboard box which appeared to have contained the gun when he collected it. The sock, with the gun inside, was found out of this box as much as away from where Duggan was shot. Neither his DNA nor fingerprints were found on the sock which wrapped the gun, nor on the weapon itself. Additional tests found no gunshot residue on Duggan.\n\nNews of Duggan's death was publicised quickly. Soon after Duggan was shot, an image was posted on Facebook showing police standing over a body that may have been his. Outrage about the police killing quickly escalated.\n\nThere was a long history of tension between black communities and the police before and since the Broadwater Farm riot in 1985, in which, according to David Lammy, Labour MP for Tottenham, the \"cracks that already existed between the police and the community became deep fissures\". Since 1985 \"there had been some progress made in the relationship between the local community and the police\", but the shooting \"raised tension\". Lammy stated that Duggan's death occurred as part of \"a history in Tottenham that involves deaths in police custody\". Claudia Webbe, the chairperson of Operation Trident, asserted that many black people see Duggan's shooting as \"yet another unjust death in custody\" and that young black people in Tottenham are \"still six, seven, eight times more likely to be stopped and searched than their white counterparts\".\n\nBlack British novelist Alex Wheatle, who served a term of imprisonment for crimes he committed in the 1981 Brixton riot, asserted that there was \"a deep aggravation\" that despite many black deaths in police custody there had never been a conviction of a police officer.\n\nIn 2017, Tony Hanley, the firearms officer who recommended the bullets used to kill Duggan, had a mental breakdown and attempted suicide by police before fatally shooting himself. Hanley described feeling responsible for Duggan's death, seeing his ghost.\n\nAt about 17:30 BST on 6 August 2011, Duggan's relatives and local residents marched from Broadwater Farm to Tottenham Police Station. The demonstrators chanted \"we want answers\" and requested information from police about the circumstances of Duggan's death. They also made broader demands for \"Justice\", seeking to publicise ongoing poor relations with police in their community.\n\nA chief inspector spoke with the demonstrators, who demanded to see a higher-ranking officer. About 20:00 BST, a 16-year-old girl approached them and may have thrown a leaflet or a stone. Police swarmed the girl with shields and batons, allegedly causing head injuries. At about 20:20 BST, members of the waiting crowd attacked two nearby police cars, setting them on fire. According to Metropolitan Police Commander Adrian Hanstock, the violence was started by \"certain elements, who were not involved with the vigil\". Other observers state that the rally began peacefully but was incited by the police attack.\n\nRioting, arson and looting spread to other parts of London, and to elsewhere in England. Rioters expressed mixed motivations for rioting, including policing issues, poverty, and racial tension with police.\n\nDuggan's family condemned the disorder. His older brother said, \"We're not condoning any kind of actions like that at all.\" While Duggan's shooting was perhaps the trigger for the violence, several other causes of the rioting have been suggested. British Prime Minister David Cameron rejected a causal relationship between the death of Duggan and the subsequent looting.\n\nDuggan's death quickly became a major media story. Initially the media including the BBC incorrectly reported that one shot was 'discharged from an illegal firearm inside the car'. According to the \"Daily Mail\" it was the police themselves who had suggested this theory; the newspaper reported four days later: \"a bullet found lodged in a police radio was a force-issue bullet, meaning Mr Duggan had not fired on officers as police suggested.\" \"The Independent\" stated on 8 January 2014: \"The authorities wrongly said that he had been hit in an exchange of fire\".\n\nSome of the media were criticized for portraying Duggan as a gangster, confused by his criminal record being reported as either extensive or non-existent by different outlets. The media was faulted for uncritically reporting the police's story that Duggan had shot first—also shown to be false.\n\nThe riots brought international attention to Duggan's death, which one Iranian official described as a \"human rights violation\".\n\nDuggan's funeral took place at New Testament Church of God in Wood Green on 9 September 2011. The funeral procession was watched by thousands of onlookers. Police maintained a low profile.\n\nThe incident was immediately referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), in accordance with standard practice when anyone dies or is seriously injured following police contact. Investigators distributed leaflets appealing for witnesses to come forward. IPCC officers also searched CCTV footage, 999 calls and radio transmissions.\n\nOn 12 August 2011 the IPCC announced that in the immediate aftermath of the incident they may have given misleading information to journalists to the effect that shots were exchanged between Duggan and the police. Although a bullet had been found lodged in a police radio, there was no evidence that it had come from the gun in Duggan's possession.\n\nIn response to rumours that the killing of Duggan was an \"execution\", the IPCC announced: \"Speculation that Mark Duggan was 'assassinated' in an execution style involving a number of shots to the head are categorically untrue.\"\n\nDuggan's family stated that they did not trust the IPCC to conduct a fair and independent investigation of the killing and asked for an independent inquiry into the relationship between the Metropolitan Police and the IPCC. They sought to commission an independent second postmortem. Coroner Andrew Walker scheduled an initial hearing for 12 December 2011.\n\nIn November 2011, two members of the public who were appointed to liaise with the IPCC, resigned from those posts. A third remained in post. One of those who left said that the IPCC work was \"shoddy.\"\n\nOn 29 February 2012 the IPCC upheld a complaint that the Metropolitan Police had not adequately informed Duggan's family of his death on 4 August 2011. The IPCC's inquiry expressly did not address the events of 6 August 2011 and afterwards. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Steve Kavanagh of the Metropolitan Police had already issued an apology (in August 2011) to the Duggan family for the manner in which police initially communicated with them, suggesting that the IPCC had a responsibility to provide information to Duggan's family.\n\nIn late March 2012 the IPCC indicated that the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 made it impossible for the organisation to reveal information obtained during its investigation into Duggan's death, making it doubtful if a public coroner's inquest into the killing could ever be held.\n\nIn April 2012, the BBC aired footage of the immediate aftermath of the shooting. The footage showed paramedics handling Duggan's body. The IPCC condemned the BBC for showing the footage without first consulting them.\n\nThe IPCC was expected to release its report on the killing in summer of 2012. Because no report had been issued by January 2013, a planned inquest into the killing was delayed until September. The IPCC announced in March 2013 that it would issue a report in April, for delivery to the inquest in May. Referring to the officers who killed Duggan, an IPCC spokesperson announced on 2 August 2013 that \"We have found no evidence to indicate criminality at this stage.\" The IPCC said its investigation had substantially ended and that a final report would be issued later in August.\n\nThe 11 officers involved initially refused interviews with the IPCC. The officer who killed Duggan, now known as \"V53\", later submitted testimony in writing.\n\nPolice stated that \"no officer had done wrong\" but announced that the person who shot Duggan would not remain on active firearms duty.\n\nThe firearms officer involved in the operation known only as V53 provided written statements to the IPCC but refused to be interviewed. David Lammy, the MP for Tottenham, was critical of his refusal. The IPCC asked for the power to interview police officers even if they are not suspected of having committed a crime.\n\nIn November 2011, the IPCC began an investigation into the \"quality of the investigative response\" by police to an incident on 29 July 2011, for which police charged Kevin Hutchinson-Foster with possession of a handgun, believing the gun may be the same found at the shooting of Mr. Duggan.\n\nOn 18 September 2012, Hutchinson-Foster's trial commenced in the Crown Court at Snaresbrook. The defendant was charged with supplying Duggan with the BBM Bruni Model 92 handgun, found near Duggan's car after his death. The defendant denied the charge and gave his explanation for the presence of his DNA on the gun by alleging he had been beaten with the weapon by a gang that included Duggan.\n\nDuring the trial, prosecutor Edward Brown QC of QEB Hollis Whiteman contended that Duggan travelled to Leyton to collect the gun from Hutchinson-Foster, before driving to Tottenham with it. The police alleged that Duggan had received a gun from Hutchinson-Foster 12–15 minutes before he was shot.\n\nThe trial included testimony from seven police officers who were allowed to remain anonymous and use pseudonyms. The Police alleged that Duggan had pulled the gun from his waistband and pointed it at police before they shot him.\n\nAccording to the evidence given by the cab driver and corroborated by one policeman present at the scene, Duggan got out of the taxi and ran in an attempt to escape. The driver stated, \"I saw that Mark Duggan got out and ran. At the same time, I heard firing from the front. I saw shots strike Mark Duggan. He fell to the ground.\" \"Mark Duggan only got 2ft–3ft from my car when he was shot\", the taxi driver later testified.\n\nDr Simon Poole, a pathologist who had performed a post-mortem on Duggan's body, testified in January 2013 at the retrial of Kevin Hutchinson-Foster and asserted that the injuries Duggan sustained in the shooting were not consistent with the account of the incident that was given by the police officer who fired the lethal shot. Questioned by a barrister representing Hutchinson-Foster, Poole said that the police bullet had penetrated Duggan's body on the right side and travelled from right to left. Poole agreed with the barrister's statement: \"So the scenario can't be right? The officer fires to his left and the bullet hits Mr Duggan in the chest and it should go from left to right – but it went right to left. Therefore the scenario can't be right?\"\n\nPoole also later agreed with the prosecution that the bullet's trajectory might be consistent with the same angle of firing if Duggan had turned to face the officer.\n\nA December 2011 IPCC statement had cited Poole for discovering that a second bullet struck Duggan's arm.\n\nOn 17 October 2012, the jury failed to reach a verdict. The re-trial date was set for January 2013, and on 31 January 2013 the defendant was convicted of supplying Duggan with the handgun. On 26 February 2013, the defendant was sentenced to eleven years in prison; seven years for supplying the gun, four years for related offences.\n\nThe Hutchinson-Foster case did not resolve a number of significant unknown questions related to the Duggan killing.\n\nFollowing interviews in the Tottenham area, some residents have revealed that they do not trust police or investigators, and say that Duggan was executed by police. A report due in summer of 2012 was announced delayed in October 2012. Duggan's family and members of his community suggested that they did not consider the IPCC impartial and did not believe that its investigation was succeeding.\n\nFrustration with the official investigation mounted in May 2012 when it was announced that the 31 police witnesses would not be required to answer questions—instead submitting written testimony. David Lammy, MP from Tottenham, stated: \"It is unacceptable that the police officers have not made themselves available for interview, and it is unacceptable that the IPCC does not have the power to compel them to do so.\"\n\nDuggan's family did not believe that the police have been honest about the shooting, and have pressured the police and IPCC for greater transparency. Duggan's sister, Paulette Hall, has stated: \"We want justice. We want them to come clean and tell us what happened. The police are human like us. If you kill someone, you should do the time, just like we would have to do.\" Hall has reiterated concerns about media portrayals, and produced her own film titled \"The Real Story of Mark Duggan\".\n\nDuggan's mother, Pamela, has said: \"We still don't have justice. I won't give up until I get justice for Mark. People need to be held to account for my son's death. There needs to be a full inquest, in front of a jury of ordinary men and women, to find out the truth.\" Mrs. Duggan has sought judicial review for the case, requesting oversight of the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) and the IPCC. London's High Court of Justice rejected her application for judicial review on 18 June 2013.\n\nThe family have criticized the IPCC for delaying the investigation. Expecting an inquest to begin on 28 January and instead facing indefinite postponement, a barrister for the Duggan family commented: \"It is absolutely shocking to find ourselves here today and to hear your counsel saying that there are further investigations, basic investigations, to be conducted such as a reconstruction and forensics.\"\n\nStafford Scott, originally appointed as an advisor to Operation Trident, resigned from the investigation because he felt that it was not being conducted fairly. Writing in \"The Guardian\", he stated:\n\nThe IPCC has broken its own guidelines by giving out erroneous information to journalists regarding the \"shoot-out\" involving Duggan and police that didn't actually happen. And its investigation is flawed and in all probability tainted – so much so that we can never have faith in its final report.\n\nScott blames the police response to the Duggan shooting for the escalation of the 2011 riots. He later criticized authorities for treating the Hutchinson-Foster as a proxy for the Duggan investigation, while continuing to delay the official inquest on Duggan's death. He says that members of Duggan's community feel ignored and lied to by authorities, writing in March 2012: \"In August 2011 the word on the streets was that 'they executed Mark'. Seven months later the word is that the police had control of the gun or worse.\"\n\nAfter the Hutchinson-Foster trial, Scott criticized the Trident police for inaction, writing: \"So it is now clear that the police had a golden opportunity to remove an identified gunman and a firearm off of the streets but somehow managed not to do so. And this is all the more shocking because the police have a special unit, Trident, established specifically to deal with gun crime in the black community.\"\n\nAt a pre-inquest hearing in June 2012, coroner Andrew Walker said it was \"quite extraordinary\" that the IPCC refused to provide witness statements. He ordered the material to be disclosed within 28 days. Representing the Duggan family, Michael Mansfield QC said the IPCC's position was \"utterly unacceptable\", and warned them they would be in contempt if they refused the coroner's order.\n\nA public inquest on the killing had been scheduled for 28 January 2013. On 25 January, the inquest was declared indefinitely postponed because the IPCC had not yet released its report. Judge Keith Cutler later announced that the inquest would begin on 16 September 2013. The inquest was expected to last for six to eight weeks. It was assigned the same group who were assigned to the inquest into the death of Azelle Rodney.\n\nThe government created a website for publicizing materials related to the inquest, and is considering live broadcast for some of the proceedings. Testimony from firearms officers will remain entirely anonymous. Members of the inquest jury may also be kept anonymous.\n\nInquest hearings began on 16 September 2013. The jury began with a visit to the street in Tottenham where Duggan was killed in 2011.\n\nPolice maintained that Duggan was a gang member linked to violent crime. \"As well as gun crime, he was involved in supply of class A drugs and possession of ammunition\", said Detective Inspector Mick Foote.\n\nFoote denied making the claim that Duggan had fired at police, saying he was \"surprised\" that early reports of the incident described a \"shoot out\". The IPCC later conceded it had misled journalists shortly after the shooting by saying that shots were exchanged.\n\nA police officer appearing in support of the IPCC, wrote in a statement that during informal briefings at the scene of death \"officers had apparently thrown a firearm found in his [Duggan's] possession over a fence so that it was out of reach and it would no longer pose a threat to them\". No other officer confirmed this.\n\nThe jury learned that Duggan had been killed by a 9mm parabellum, hollow-point bullet, travelling at 870 mph. This type of bullet is designed to cause instant incapacitation.\n\nPathologist Derrick Pounder said that police had \"simply got it wrong\" in their accounts of the shooting. Pounder testified that Duggan was hit first by a non-fatal shot to the arm, then killed by a second shot to his chest.\n\nLawyers for the Duggan family argued that police had planted the handgun found on the scene. Two witnesses testified that they saw a police officer move something from the minicab to the place where the gun was found, 20 feet away from Duggan's body. One witness (\"Miss J\") said she saw the officer pick up the gun, adding: \"It will never leave me for the simple reason it's not often you see a gun in broad daylight.\" She said the officer \"had an expression like he'd found gold.\" Miss J was standing 50 metres away from the scene (with a fence in between), and the final IPCC report noted that there were, \"many discrepancies between her accounts, which overall lessens the weight that can be attached to her observations, as they render her evidence unreliable and contradictory.\"\n\nThe driver of the minicab testified that he did not see a gun in Duggan's hand, nor did he see one fly through the air. He said Duggan was shot in the back. Another witness said there was \"definitely\" a phone in Duggan's hand. During the inquest Ian Stern, counsel for the police, suggested that the same witness – the only one to actually see Duggan being shot – had earlier told a journalist that he (Duggan) had been holding a handgun. The witness denied ever making such statements.\n\n\"V53\", the officer who shot and killed Duggan, testified that Duggan was still holding a gun after both of the shots were fired, saying his eyes were \"glued to the gun.\" Military surgeon Jonathan Clasper testified that it would be difficult to imagine Duggan throwing his gun 20 feet after being hit by the two shots.\n\nNear the end of the hearings, lawyer Leslie Thomas confronted the police officer \"V59\" with the possibility that a gun had been planted, saying: \"I'm going to suggest to you, V59, that you knew where the gun was before the officers had gone round (the fence), because you, and all of your colleagues had planted it there.\" The officer replied: \"I did not plant any gun at any scene. I find that highly offensive.\" Thomas also accused officer \"W70\" of inconsistencies and omissions in testimony.\n\nDuring the inquest, student protesters were heard chanting: \"Who killed Mark Duggan? You killed Mark Duggan.\" On 11 December, students protested outside the Royal Courts of Justice while the inquest was underway.\n\nThe jury began deliberations on 10 December 2013, asked to render a verdict of unlawful killing, lawful killing, or open verdict. Subsequently, Cutler told the jury that he would accept a conclusion based on a majority agreement by 8 of the 10 jurors.\n\nThe jury interrupted deliberations over Christmas and resumed on 7 January 2014. They delivered their conclusions at approximately 16:00 on 8 January, concluding (by an 8–1 majority) that Duggan's death was a lawful killing.\n\nFollowing the inquest, a case was brought by Duggan's mother to the High Court seeking judicial review, arguing that the coroner's directions to the jury were legally incorrect. The direction to the jury instructed them to determine whether or not the officer who shot Duggan was acting on an honest belief that Duggan was a threat, not whether his belief was reasonable. The case challenged the legal standard for self-defence as being incompatible with Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights which protects the right to life.\n\nIn October 2014, the High Court rejected this challenge. Leave was given to appeal the case to the civil division of the Court of Appeal of England and Wales, but the appellate court also rejected the claims in 2017. Metropolitan Police Service firearms specialist, 51 years old Anthony Hanley allegedly shot himself in the head after he turned suicidal, on Saturday, 30 January 2016, in spite of being deterred by fellow officers, near his home in Wallington, London. The inquest started on Monday, 30 October 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7746602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7746602", "title": "Ectomesenchyme", "text": "Ectomesenchyme\n\nEctomesenchyme has properties similar to mesenchyme. The origin of the ectomesenchyme is disputed. It is either like the mesenchyme, arising from mesodermic cells, or conversely arising from neural crest cells The neural crest is a critical group of cells that form in the cranial region during early vertebrate development. Ectomesenchyme plays a critical role in the formation of the hard and soft tissues of the head and neck such as bones, muscles, teeth, and, notably, the branchial arches.\n"}
{"id": "55203164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55203164", "title": "Edward M. Bowman", "text": "Edward M. Bowman\n\nEdward M. Bowman was a member of the Dakota Territory House of Representatives and the namesake of Bowman County, North Dakota. Bowman served the southern part of the territory during the 1883 legislative session, during which the county was established.\n"}
{"id": "33026299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33026299", "title": "Emergency workers killed in the September 11 attacks", "text": "Emergency workers killed in the September 11 attacks\n\nOf the 2,977 victims killed in the September 11 attacks, 412 were emergency workers in New York City who responded to the World Trade Center. This included:\n\nThis article lists those emergency workers listed above who died while fulfilling their duties at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001.\n\nThere were 75 firehouses in which at least one member was killed. The FDNY also lost its department chief, first deputy commissioner, one of its marshals, one of its chaplains, as well as other administrative or specialty personnel.\n\nOperationally and geographically, the department is nominally organized into five borough commands for the five traditional boroughs of New York. Within those borough commands exist nine divisions, each headed by a deputy chief. Within each division operate four to seven battalions, led by a battalion chief and typically consisting of 180–200 firefighters and officers. Each battalion consists of four to eight companies, with a company being led by a captain. He commands three lieutenants and 16–42 firefighters. Last is the unit consisting of the members of the company on call during a given tour, consisting of a lieutenant or a captain plus a number of firefighters depending on the type of unit: three to four on an engine company, five on a ladder company (also known as a truck company), five for a rescue company, five for a squad company, four in a marine company, and six for the hazardous materials company.\n\nOn September 11, the battalion chief of Battalion 1 witnessed American Airlines Flight 11 crash into the North Tower of the World Trade Center and immediately radioed a multiple alarm incident. Over the course of the next three hours, 121 engine companies, 62 ladder companies and 27 fire officers were deployed to the scene. All off-duty firefighters were recalled — the first time the FDNY had issued a total recall in over 30 years. In addition to the regular fire apparatus and personnel assigned to the incident, the FDNY also deployed its only Haz-Mat unit, its mobile command center, its field communications unit, all its five rescue units, both of its high-rise units, six of its seven squad units, and one of its two tactical support units.\n\nThe following list is a tally of the fatalities in each company which responded to the World Trade Center:\n\nThe following list provides further details to the preceding list by categorizing the FDNY company with the rank, name, and age (if available) of each casualty. Names without ranks typically denote the rank of firefighter.\n\nWithin minutes of Flight 11's impact, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey Police Department (PAPD) began deploying officers from the Port Authority Trans-Hudson, bridges, tunnels, and airport commands. The PAPD commanding officer on the scene ordered a full evacuation of the North Tower at 9 a.m., about three minutes before Flight 175 hit the South Tower. At the same time, the PAPD's two most senior officers, superintendent Ferdinand Morrone and Chief James Romito, both arrived separately at the World Trade Center.\n\nSome officers were ordered into the towers to assist with stairwell evacuations, while others helped with evacuations in the plaza and subway station. Superintendent Morrone was last seen helping evacuate tenants on the 45th floor of the North Tower before it collapsed while Chief Romito was in the 31st-floor region with four colleagues helping firefighters. The PAPD lost 37 officers, including Morrone and Romito, and one police dog in the attacks:\n\nSeveral New York City Police Department (NYPD) officers saw Flight 11's impact with the North Tower and immediately reported it to dispatchers. Ten minutes after Flight 11's impact and seven minutes before Flight 175's impact, the NYPD chief of department was en route to the scene and raised the police mobilization to level 4, thereby sending around 22 lieutenants, 100 sergeants, and 800 police officers to the World Trade Center. NYPD personnel were primarily responsible for assisting in evacuations and helping injured civilians.\nThree police helicopters were also deployed to report on conditions and assess the feasibility of a rooftop landing or of special rescue operations. Once Flight 175 had struck the South Tower, another level 4 mobilization was ordered, bringing to almost 2,000 the number of NYPD personnel at the scene. Some were ordered to enter the World Trade Center to assist with the FDNY's evacuations.\n\nThe 23 NYPD officers, including four sergeants and two detectives, who died at the scene were:\n\nEight emergency medical technicians and paramedics from private emergency medical services lost their lives while responding to the World Trade Center. These names included:\n\n"}
{"id": "9587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9587", "title": "Euthanasia", "text": "Euthanasia\n\nEuthanasia (from ; \"good death\": εὖ, \"eu\"; \"well\" or \"good\" – θάνατος, \"thanatos\"; \"death\") is the practice of intentionally ending a life to relieve pain and suffering.\n\nThere are different euthanasia laws in each country. The British House of Lords Select Committee on Medical Ethics defines euthanasia as \"a deliberate intervention undertaken with the express intention of ending a life, to relieve intractable suffering\". In the Netherlands and Belgium, euthanasia is understood as \"termination of life by a doctor at the request of a patient\". The Dutch law however, does not use the term 'euthanasia' but includes it under the broader definition of \"assisted suicide and termination of life on request\".\n\nEuthanasia is categorized in different ways, which include voluntary, non-voluntary, or involuntary. Voluntary euthanasia is legal in some countries. Non-voluntary euthanasia (patient's consent unavailable) is illegal in all countries. Involuntary euthanasia (without asking consent or against the patient's will) is also illegal in all countries and is usually considered murder. As of 2006, euthanasia is the most active area of research in contemporary bioethics. In some countries there is a divisive public controversy over the moral, ethical, and legal issues of euthanasia. Passive euthanasia (known as \"pulling the plug\") is legal under some circumstances in many countries. Active euthanasia however is legal or de facto legal in only a handful of countries (e.g. Belgium, Canada, Switzerland) and is limited to specific circumstances and the approval of councilors and doctors or other specialists. In some countries such as Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, support for active euthanasia is almost non-existent.\n\nLike other terms borrowed from history, \"euthanasia\" has had different meanings depending on usage. The first apparent usage of the term \"euthanasia\" belongs to the historian Suetonius, who described how the Emperor Augustus, \"dying quickly and without suffering in the arms of his wife, Livia, experienced the 'euthanasia' he had wished for.\" The word \"euthanasia\" was first used in a medical context by Francis Bacon in the 17th century, to refer to an easy, painless, happy death, during which it was a \"physician's responsibility to alleviate the 'physical sufferings' of the body.\" Bacon referred to an \"outward euthanasia\"—the term \"outward\" he used to distinguish from a spiritual concept—the euthanasia \"which regards the preparation of the soul.\"\n\nIn current usage, euthanasia has been defined as the \"painless inducement of a quick death\". However, it is argued that this approach fails to properly define euthanasia, as it leaves open a number of possible actions which would meet the requirements of the definition, but would not be seen as euthanasia. In particular, these include situations where a person kills another, painlessly, but for no reason beyond that of personal gain; or accidental deaths that are quick and painless, but not intentional.\n\nAnother approach incorporates the notion of suffering into the definition. The definition offered by the Oxford English Dictionary incorporates suffering as a necessary condition, with \"the painless killing of a patient suffering from an incurable and painful disease or in an irreversible coma\", This approach is included in Marvin Khol and Paul Kurtz's definition of it as \"a mode or act of inducing or permitting death painlessly as a relief from suffering\". Counterexamples can be given: such definitions may encompass killing a person suffering from an incurable disease for personal gain (such as to claim an inheritance), and commentators such as Tom Beauchamp and Arnold Davidson have argued that doing so would constitute \"murder simpliciter\" rather than euthanasia.\n\nThe third element incorporated into many definitions is that of intentionality – the death must be intended, rather than being accidental, and the intent of the action must be a \"merciful death\". Michael Wreen argued that \"the principal thing that distinguishes euthanasia from intentional killing simpliciter is the agent's motive: it must be a good motive insofar as the good of the person killed is concerned.\" Similarly, Heather Draper speaks to the importance of motive, arguing that \"the motive forms a crucial part of arguments for euthanasia, because it must be in the best interests of the person on the receiving end.\" Definitions such as that offered by the House of Lords Select Committee on Medical Ethics take this path, where euthanasia is defined as \"a deliberate intervention undertaken with the express intention of ending a life, to relieve intractable suffering.\" Beauchamp and Davidson also highlight Baruch Brody's \"an act of euthanasia is one in which one person ... (A) kills another person (B) for the benefit of the second person, who actually does benefit from being killed\".\n\nDraper argued that any definition of euthanasia must incorporate four elements: an agent and a subject; an intention; a causal proximity, such that the actions of the agent lead to the outcome; and an outcome. Based on this, she offered a definition incorporating those elements, stating that euthanasia \"must be defined as death that results from the intention of one person to kill another person, using the most gentle and painless means possible, that is motivated solely by the best interests of the person who dies.\" Prior to Draper, Beauchamp and Davidson had also offered a definition that includes these elements. Their definition specifically discounts fetuses to distinguish between abortions and euthanasia:\n\nWreen, in part responding to Beauchamp and Davidson, offered a six-part definition:\n\nWreen also considered a seventh requirement: \"(7) The good specified in (6) is, or at least includes, the avoidance of evil\", although as Wreen noted in the paper, he was not convinced that the restriction was required.\n\nIn discussing his definition, Wreen noted the difficulty of justifying euthanasia when faced with the notion of the subject's \"right to life\". In response, Wreen argued that euthanasia has to be voluntary, and that \"involuntary euthanasia is, as such, a great wrong\". Other commentators incorporate consent more directly into their definitions. For example, in a discussion of euthanasia presented in 2003 by the European Association of Palliative Care (EPAC) Ethics Task Force, the authors offered: \"Medicalized killing of a person without the person's consent, whether nonvoluntary (where the person in unable to consent) or involuntary (against the person's will) is not euthanasia: it is murder. Hence, euthanasia can be voluntary only.\" Although the EPAC Ethics Task Force argued that both non-voluntary and involuntary euthanasia could not be included in the definition of euthanasia, there is discussion in the literature about excluding one but not the other.\n\nEuthanasia may be classified into three types, according to whether a person gives informed consent: voluntary, non-voluntary and involuntary.\n\nThere is a debate within the medical and bioethics literature about whether or not the non-voluntary (and by extension, involuntary) killing of patients can be regarded as euthanasia, irrespective of intent or the patient's circumstances. In the definitions offered by Beauchamp and Davidson and, later, by Wreen, consent on the part of the patient was not considered as one of their criteria, although it may have been required to justify euthanasia. However, others see consent as essential.\n\nVoluntary euthanasia is conducted with the consent of the patient. Active voluntary euthanasia is legal in Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. Passive voluntary euthanasia is legal throughout the US per \"Cruzan v. Director, Missouri Department of Health\". When the patient brings about his or her own death with the assistance of a physician, the term assisted suicide is often used instead. Assisted suicide is legal in Switzerland and the U.S. states of California, Oregon, Washington, Montana and Vermont.\n\nNon-voluntary euthanasia is conducted when the consent of the patient is unavailable. Examples include child euthanasia, which is illegal worldwide but decriminalised under certain specific circumstances in the Netherlands under the Groningen Protocol.\n\nInvoluntary euthanasia is conducted against the will of the patient.\n\nVoluntary, non-voluntary and involuntary types can be further divided into passive or active variants. Passive euthanasia entails the withholding treatment necessary for the continuance of life. Active euthanasia entails the use of lethal substances or forces (such as administering a lethal injection), and is the more controversial. While some authors consider these terms to be misleading and unhelpful, they are nonetheless commonly used. In some cases, such as the administration of increasingly necessary, but toxic doses of painkillers, there is a debate whether or not to regard the practice as active or passive.\n\nEuthanasia was practiced in Ancient Greece and Rome: for example, hemlock was employed as a means of hastening death on the island of Kea, a technique also employed in Marseilles. Euthanasia, in the sense of the deliberate hastening of a person's death, was supported by Socrates, Plato and Seneca the Elder in the ancient world, although Hippocrates appears to have spoken against the practice, writing \"I will not prescribe a deadly drug to please someone, nor give advice that may cause his death\" (noting there is some debate in the literature about whether or not this was intended to encompass euthanasia).\n\nThe term \"euthanasia\" in the earlier sense of supporting someone as they died, was used for the first time by Francis Bacon. In his work, \"Euthanasia medica\", he chose this ancient Greek word and, in doing so, distinguished between \"euthanasia interior\", the preparation of the soul for death, and \"euthanasia exterior\", which was intended to make the end of life easier and painless, in exceptional circumstances by shortening life. That the ancient meaning of an easy death came to the fore again in the early modern period can be seen from its definition in the 18th century \"Zedlers Universallexikon\":\n\nEuthanasia: a very gentle and quiet death, which happens without painful convulsions. The word comes from ευ, \"bene\", well, and θανατος, \"mors\", death.\n\nThe concept of euthanasia in the sense of alleviating the process of death goes back to the medical historian, Karl Friedrich Heinrich Marx, who drew on Bacon's philosophical ideas. According to Marx, a doctor had a moral duty to ease the suffering of death through encouragement, support and mitigation using medication. Such an \"alleviation of death\" reflected the contemporary \"zeitgeist\", but was brought into the medical canon of responsibility for the first time by Marx. Marx also stressed the distinction between the theological care of the soul of sick people from the physical care and medical treatment by doctors.\n\nEuthanasia in its modern sense has always been strongly opposed in the Judeo-Christian tradition. Thomas Aquinas opposed both and argued that the practice of euthanasia contradicted our natural human instincts of survival, as did Francois Ranchin (1565–1641), a French physician and professor of medicine, and Michael Boudewijns (1601–1681), a physician and teacher. Other voices argued for euthanasia, such as John Donne in 1624, and euthanasia continued to be practised. In 1678, the publication of Caspar Questel's \"De pulvinari morientibus non-subtrahend\", (\"On the pillow of which the dying should not be deprived\"), initiated debate on the topic. Questel described various customs which were employed at the time to hasten the death of the dying, (including the sudden removal of a pillow, which was believed to accelerate death), and argued against their use, as doing so was \"against the laws of God and Nature\". This view was shared by others who followed, including Philipp Jakob Spener, Veit Riedlin and Johann Georg Krünitz. Despite opposition, euthanasia continued to be practised, involving techniques such as bleeding, suffocation, and removing people from their beds to be placed on the cold ground.\n\nSuicide and euthanasia became more accepted during the Age of Enlightenment. Thomas More wrote of euthanasia in \"Utopia\", although it is not clear if More was intending to endorse the practice. Other cultures have taken different approaches: for example, in Japan suicide has not traditionally been viewed as a sin, as it is used in cases of honor, and accordingly, the perceptions of euthanasia are different from those in other parts of the world.\n\nIn the mid-1800s, the use of morphine to treat \"the pains of death\" emerged, with John Warren recommending its use in 1848. A similar use of chloroform was revealed by Joseph Bullar in 1866. However, in neither case was it recommended that the use should be to hasten death. In 1870 Samuel Williams, a schoolteacher, initiated the contemporary euthanasia debate through a speech given at the Birmingham Speculative Club in England, which was subsequently published in a one-off publication entitled \"Essays of the Birmingham Speculative Club\", the collected works of a number of members of an amateur philosophical society. Williams' proposal was to use chloroform to deliberately hasten the death of terminally ill patients:\n\nThe essay was favourably reviewed in \"The Saturday Review\", but an editorial against the essay appeared in \"The Spectator\". From there it proved to be influential, and other writers came out in support of such views: Lionel Tollemache wrote in favour of euthanasia, as did Annie Besant, the essayist and reformer who later became involved with the National Secular Society, considering it a duty to society to \"die voluntarily and painlessly\" when one reaches the point of becoming a 'burden'. \"Popular Science\" analyzed the issue in May 1873, assessing both sides of the argument. Kemp notes that at the time, medical doctors did not participate in the discussion; it was \"essentially a philosophical enterprise ... tied inextricably to a number of objections to the Christian doctrine of the sanctity of human life\".\n\nThe rise of the euthanasia movement in the United States coincided with the so-called Gilded Age, a time of social and technological change that encompassed an \"individualistic conservatism that praised laissez-faire economics, scientific method, and rationalism\", along with major depressions, industrialisation and conflict between corporations and labour unions. It was also the period in which the modern hospital system was developed, which has been seen as a factor in the emergence of the euthanasia debate.\n\nRobert Ingersoll argued for euthanasia, stating in 1894 that where someone is suffering from a terminal illness, such as terminal cancer, they should have a right to end their pain through suicide. Felix Adler offered a similar approach, although, unlike Ingersoll, Adler did not reject religion. In fact, he argued from an Ethical Culture framework. In 1891, Adler argued that those suffering from overwhelming pain should have the right to commit suicide, and, furthermore, that it should be permissible for a doctor to assist – thus making Adler the first \"prominent American\" to argue for suicide in cases where people were suffering from chronic illness. Both Ingersoll and Adler argued for voluntary euthanasia of adults suffering from terminal ailments. Dowbiggin argues that by breaking down prior moral objections to euthanasia and suicide, Ingersoll and Adler enabled others to stretch the definition of euthanasia.\n\nThe first attempt to legalise euthanasia took place in the United States, when Henry Hunt introduced legislation into the General Assembly of Ohio in 1906. Hunt did so at the behest of Anna S. Hall, a wealthy heiress who was a major figure in the euthanasia movement during the early 20th century in the United States. Hall had watched her mother die after an extended battle with liver cancer, and had dedicated herself to ensuring that others would not have to endure the same suffering. Towards this end she engaged in an extensive letter writing campaign, recruited Lurana Sheldon and Maud Ballington Booth, and organised a debate on euthanasia at the annual meeting of the American Humane Association in 1905 – described by Jacob Appel as the first significant public debate on the topic in the 20th century.\n\nHunt's bill called for the administration of an anesthetic to bring about a patient's death, so long as the person is of lawful age and sound mind, and was suffering from a fatal injury, an irrevocable illness, or great physical pain. It also required that the case be heard by a physician, required informed consent in front of three witnesses, and required the attendance of three physicians who had to agree that the patient's recovery was impossible. A motion to reject the bill outright was voted down, but the bill failed to pass, 79 to 23.\n\nAlong with the Ohio euthanasia proposal, in 1906 Assemblyman Ross Gregory introduced a proposal to permit euthanasia to the Iowa legislature. However, the Iowa legislation was broader in scope than that offered in Ohio. It allowed for the death of any person of at least ten years of age who suffered from an ailment that would prove fatal and cause extreme pain, should they be of sound mind and express a desire to artificially hasten their death. In addition, it allowed for infants to be euthanised if they were sufficiently deformed, and permitted guardians to request euthanasia on behalf of their wards. The proposed legislation also imposed penalties on physicians who refused to perform euthanasia when requested: a 6–12 month prison term and a fine of between $200 and $1,000. The proposal proved to be controversial. It engendered considerable debate and failed to pass, having been withdrawn from consideration after being passed to the Committee on Public Health.\n\nAfter 1906 the euthanasia debate reduced in intensity, resurfacing periodically, but not returning to the same level of debate until the 1930s in the United Kingdom.\n\nEuthanasia opponent Ian Dowbiggin argues that the early membership of the Euthanasia Society of America (ESA) reflected how many perceived euthanasia at the time, often seeing it as a eugenics matter rather than an issue concerning individual rights. Dowbiggin argues that not every eugenist joined the ESA \"solely for eugenic reasons\", but he postulates that there were clear ideological connections between the eugenics and euthanasia movements.\n\nThe Voluntary Euthanasia Legalisation Society was founded in 1935 by Charles Killick Millard (now called Dignity in Dying). The movement campaigned for the legalisation of euthanasia in Great Britain.\n\nIn January 1936, King George V was given a fatal dose of morphine and cocaine to hasten his death. At the time he was suffering from cardio-respiratory failure, and the decision to end his life was made by his physician, Lord Dawson. Although this event was kept a secret for over 50 years, the death of George V coincided with proposed legislation in the House of Lords to legalise euthanasia.\n\nA 24 July 1939 killing of a severely disabled infant in Nazi Germany was described in a BBC \"Genocide Under the Nazis Timeline\" as the first \"state-sponsored euthanasia\". Parties that consented to the killing included Hitler's office, the parents, and the Reich Committee for the Scientific Registration of Serious and Congenitally Based Illnesses. \"The Telegraph\" noted that the killing of the disabled infant—whose name was Gerhard Kretschmar, born blind, with missing limbs, subject to convulsions, and reportedly \"an idiot\"— provided \"the rationale for a secret Nazi decree that led to 'mercy killings' of almost 300,000 mentally and physically handicapped people\". While Kretchmar's killing received parental consent, most of the 5,000 to 8,000 children killed afterwards were forcibly taken from their parents.\n\nThe \"euthanasia campaign\" of mass murder gathered momentum on 14 January 1940 when the \"handicapped\" were killed with gas vans and killing centres, eventually leading to the deaths of 70,000 adult Germans. Professor Robert Jay Lifton, author of \"The Nazi Doctors\" and a leading authority on the T4 program, contrasts this program with what he considers to be a genuine euthanasia. He explains that the Nazi version of \"euthanasia\" was based on the work of Adolf Jost, who published \"The Right to Death\" (Das Recht auf den Tod) in 1895. Lifton writes: \n\nJost argued that control over the death of the individual must ultimately belong to the social organism, the state. This concept is in direct opposition to the Anglo-American concept of euthanasia, which emphasizes the \"individual's\" 'right to die' or 'right to death' or 'right to his or her own death,' as the ultimate human claim. In contrast, Jost was pointing to the state's right to kill. ... Ultimately the argument was biological: 'The rights to death [are] the key to the fitness of life.' The state must own death—must kill—in order to keep the social organism alive and healthy.\n\nIn modern terms, the use of \"euthanasia\" in the context of Action T4 is seen to be a euphemism to disguise a program of genocide, in which people were killed on the grounds of \"disabilities, religious beliefs, and discordant individual values\". Compared to the discussions of euthanasia that emerged post-war, the Nazi program may have been worded in terms that appear similar to the modern use of \"euthanasia\", but there was no \"mercy\" and the patients were not necessarily terminally ill. Despite these differences, historian and euthanasia opponent Ian Dowbiggin writes that \"the origins of Nazi euthanasia, like those of the American euthanasia movement, predate the Third Reich and were intertwined with the history of eugenics and Social Darwinism, and with efforts to discredit traditional morality and ethics.\"\n\nOn 6 January 1949, the Euthanasia Society of America presented to the New York State Legislature a petition to legalize euthanasia, signed by 379 leading Protestant and Jewish ministers, the largest group of religious leaders ever to have taken this stance. A similar petition had been sent to the New York Legislature in 1947, signed by approximately 1,000 New York physicians. Roman Catholic religious leaders criticized the petition, saying that such a bill would \"legalize a suicide-murder pact\" and a \"rationalization of the fifth commandment of God, 'Thou Shalt Not Kill.'\" The Right Reverend Robert E. McCormick stated that\n\nThe petition brought tensions between the American Euthanasia Society and the Catholic Church to a head that contributed to a climate of anti-Catholic sentiment generally, regarding issues such as birth control, eugenics, and population control. However, the petition did not result in any legal changes.\n\nHistorically, the euthanasia debate has tended to focus on a number of key concerns. According to euthanasia opponent Ezekiel Emanuel, proponents of euthanasia have presented four main arguments: a) that people have a right to self-determination, and thus should be allowed to choose their own fate; b) assisting a subject to die might be a better choice than requiring that they continue to suffer; c) the distinction between passive euthanasia, which is often permitted, and active euthanasia, which is not substantive (or that the underlying principle–the doctrine of double effect–is unreasonable or unsound); and d) permitting euthanasia will not necessarily lead to unacceptable consequences. Pro-euthanasia activists often point to countries like the Netherlands and Belgium, and states like Oregon, where euthanasia has been legalized, to argue that it is mostly unproblematic.\n\nSimilarly, Emanuel argues that there are four major arguments presented by opponents of euthanasia: a) not all deaths are painful; b) alternatives, such as cessation of active treatment, combined with the use of effective pain relief, are available; c) the distinction between active and passive euthanasia is morally significant; and d) legalising euthanasia will place society on a slippery slope, which will lead to unacceptable consequences. In fact, in Oregon, in 2013, pain wasn't one of the top five reasons people sought euthanasia. Top reasons were a loss of dignity, and a fear of burdening others.\n\nIn the United States in 2013, 47% nationwide supported doctor-assisted suicide. This included 32% of Latinos, 29% of African-Americans, and almost nobody with disabilities.\n\nA 2015 Populus poll in the United Kingdom found broad public support for assisted dying. 82% of people supported the introduction of assisted dying laws, including 86% of people with disabilities.\n\nWest's \"Encyclopedia of American Law\" states that \"a 'mercy killing' or euthanasia is generally considered to be a criminal homicide\" and is normally used as a synonym of homicide committed at a request made by the patient.\n\nThe judicial sense of the term \"homicide\" includes any intervention undertaken with the express intention of ending a life, even to relieve intractable suffering. Not all homicide is unlawful. Two designations of homicide that carry no criminal punishment are justifiable and excusable homicide. In most countries this is not the status of euthanasia. The term \"euthanasia\" is usually confined to the active variety; the University of Washington website states that \"euthanasia generally means that the physician would act directly, for instance by giving a lethal injection, to end the patient's life\". Physician-assisted suicide is thus not classified as euthanasia by the US State of Oregon, where it is legal under the Oregon Death with Dignity Act, and despite its name, it is not legally classified as suicide either. Unlike physician-assisted suicide, withholding or withdrawing life-sustaining treatments with patient consent (voluntary) is almost unanimously considered, at least in the United States, to be legal. The use of pain medication to relieve suffering, even if it hastens death, has been held as legal in several court decisions.\n\nSome governments around the world have legalized voluntary euthanasia but most commonly it is still considered to be criminal homicide. In the Netherlands and Belgium, where euthanasia has been legalized, it still remains homicide although it is not prosecuted and not punishable if the perpetrator (the doctor) meets certain legal conditions.\n\nIn a historic judgment, the Supreme court of India legalized passive euthanasia. The apex court remarked in the judgment that the Constitution of India values liberty, dignity, autonomy, and privacy. A bench headed by Chief Justice Dipak Misra delivered a unanimous judgment.\n\nA 2010 survey in the United States of more than 10,000 physicians found that 16.3% of physicians would consider halting life-sustaining therapy because the family demanded it, even if they believed that it was premature. Approximately 54.5% would not, and the remaining 29.2% responded \"it depends\". The study also found that 45.8% of physicians agreed that physician-assisted suicide should be allowed in some cases; 40.7% did not, and the remaining 13.5% felt it depended.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the assisted dying campaign group Dignity in Dying cites research in which 54% of General Practitioners support or are neutral towards a law change on assisted dying. Similarly, a 2017 Doctors.net.uk poll reported in the British Medical Journal stated that 55% of doctors believe assisted dying, in defined circumstances, should be legalised in the UK.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church strongly opposes and condemns euthanasia and assisted suicide as morally wrong. It states that, \"intentional euthanasia, whatever its forms or motives, is murder. It is gravely contrary to the dignity of the human person and to the respect due to the living God, his Creator\". Because of this, the practice is unacceptable within the Church. The Orthodox Church in America, along with other Eastern Orthodox Churches, also opposes euthanasia stating that it must be condemned as murder stating that, \"Euthanasia is the deliberate cessation to end human life.\"\n\nMany non-Catholic churches in the United States take a stance against euthanasia. Among Protestant denominations, the Episcopal Church passed a resolution in 1991 opposing euthanasia and assisted suicide stating that it is \"morally wrong and unacceptable to take a human life to relieve the suffering caused by incurable illnesses.\" Other Protestant churches which oppose euthanasia include:\nThe Church of England accepts passive euthanasia under some circumstances, but is strongly against active euthanasia, and has led opposition against recent attempt to legalise it. The United Church of Canada accepts passive euthanasia under some circumstances, but is in general against active euthanasia, with growing acceptance now that active euthanasia has been partly legalised in Canada..\n\nEuthanasia is a complex issue in Islamic theology; however, in general it is considered contrary to Islamic law and holy texts. Among interpretations of the Koran and Hadith, the early termination of life is a crime, be it by suicide or helping one commit suicide. The various positions on the cessation of medical treatment are mixed and considered a different class of action than direct termination of life, especially if the patient is suffering. Suicide and euthanasia are both crimes in almost all Muslim majority countries.\n\nThere is much debate on the topic of euthanasia in Judaic theology, ethics, and general opinion (especially in Israel and the United States). Passive euthanasia was declared legal by Israel's highest court under certain conditions and has reached some level of acceptance. Active euthanasia remains illegal, however the topic is actively under debate with no clear consensus through legal, ethical, theological and spiritual perspectives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21322599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21322599", "title": "Execution of Louis XVI", "text": "Execution of Louis XVI\n\nThe execution of Louis XVI, by means of the guillotine, a major event of the French Revolution, took place on 21 January 1793 at the \"Place de la Révolution\" (\"Revolution Square\", formerly \"Place Louis XV\", and renamed \"Place de la Concorde\" in 1795) in Paris. The National Convention had convicted the king (17 January 1793) in a near-unanimous vote (while no one voted \"not guilty\", several deputies abstained) and condemned him to death by a simple majority.\n\nLouis XVI awoke at 5 o'clock and after dressing with the aid of his valet Jean-Baptiste Cléry, went to meet with the non-juring Irish priest Father Henry Essex Edgeworth de Firmont to make his confession. He heard his last Mass, served by Cléry, and received Communion. The Mass requisites were provided by special direction of the authorities. On Father Edgeworth's advice, Louis avoided a last farewell scene with his family. At 7 o'clock he confided his last wishes to the priest. His Royal seal was to go to the Dauphin and his wedding ring to the Queen. After receiving the priest's blessing, he went to meet Antoine Joseph Santerre, Commander of the Guard. A green carriage was waiting in the second court. He seated himself in it with the priest, with two militiamen sitting opposite them. The carriage left the Temple at approximately 9 o'clock. For more than an hour the carriage, preceded by drummers playing to drown out any support for the King and escorted by a cavalry troop with drawn sabres, made its way through Paris along a route lined with 80,000 men at arms and soldiers of the National Guard and sans-culottes.\n\nIn the neighbourhood of the present \"rue de Cléry\", the Baron de Batz, a supporter of the Royal family who had financed the flight to Varennes, had summoned 300 Royalists to enable the King's escape. Louis was to be hidden in a house in the \"rue de Cléry\" belonging to the Count of Marsan. The Baron leaped forward calling \"Follow me, my friends, let us save the King!\", but his associates had been denounced and only a few had been able to turn up. Three of them were killed, but de Batz managed to escape.\n\nAt 10 o'clock, the carriage arrived at \"Place de la Révolution\" and proceeded to an area where a scaffold had been erected, in a space surrounded by guns and drums, and a crowd carrying pikes and bayonets.\n\nAfter initially refusing to have his hands tied, Louis XVI relented when the executioner proposed to use his handkerchief instead of rope. After this his hair was cut and the collar of his shirt was removed. After being led upon the scaffold, Louis tried to give a speech but the noise of the drums made this difficult to understand. He was then laid on the bench, the collar closed over his neck and then the blade came down. According to reports the blade did not sever his neck but cut through the back of his skull and into his jaw.\n\nEdgeworth, Louis' Irish confessor, wrote in his memoirs:\nThe 13 February issue of the \"Thermomètre du jour\" ('Daily Thermometer'), a moderate Republican newspaper, described the King as shouting \"I am lost!\", citing as its source the executioner, Charles-Henri Sanson.\n\nCharles-Henri Sanson responded to the story by offering his own version of events in a letter dated 20 February 1793. The account of Sanson states:\nIn his letter, published along with its French mistakes in the \"Thermomètre\" of Thursday, 21 February 1793, Sanson emphasises that the King \"bore all this with a composure and a firmness which has surprised us all. I remained strongly convinced that he derived this firmness from the principles of the religion by which he seemed penetrated and persuaded as no other man.\"\n\nIn his Causeries, Alexandre Dumas refers to a meeting circa 1830 with Henri Sanson, eldest son of Charles-Henri Sanson, who had also been present at the execution.\n\nHenri Sanson was family appointed Executioner of Paris from April 1793, and would later execute Marie Antoinette.\n\nSpeaking to Victor Hugo in 1840, a man called Leboucher, who had arrived in Paris from Bourges in December 1792 and was present at the execution of Louis XVI, recalled vividly:\nIn \"Le nouveau Paris\", Mercier describes the execution of Louis XVI in these words:\nA popular but apocryphal legend associated with the execution states that as soon as the guillotine fell, an anonymous Freemason leaped on the scaffolding, plunged his hand into the blood, splashed drips of it onto the crown, and shouted, \"Jacques de Molay, tu es vengé!\" (usually translated as, \"Jacques de Molay, thou art avenged\"). De Molay (died 1314), the last Grand Master of the Knights Templar, had reportedly cursed Louis' ancestor Philip the Fair, after the latter had sentenced him to burn at the stake based on false confessions. The story spread widely and the phrase remains in use today to indicate the triumph of reason and logic over \"religious superstition\".\n\nThe body of Louis XVI was immediately transported to the old Church of the Madeleine (demolished in 1799), since the legislation in force forbade burial of his remains beside those of his father, the Dauphin Louis de France, at Sens. Two curates who had sworn fealty to the Revolution held a short memorial service at the church. One of them, Damoureau, stated in evidence:\nOn 21 January 1815 Louis XVI and his wife's remains were re-buried in the Basilica of Saint-Denis where in 1816 his brother, King Louis XVIII, had a funerary monument erected by Edme Gaulle.\n\nThe area where Louis XVI and later (16 October 1793) Marie Antoinette were buried, in the churchyard of St. Mary Magdaleine's, is today the \"Square Louis XVI\" greenspace, containing the classically self-effacing Expiatory Chapel completed in 1826 during the reign of Louis's youngest brother Charles X. The crypt altar stands above the exact spot where the remains of the Royal couple were originally laid to rest. The chapel narrowly escaped destruction on politico-ideological grounds during the violently anti-clerical period at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\n\nPaul and Pierrette Girault de Coursac have written a number of works on Louis XVI, including:\n"}
{"id": "10913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10913", "title": "Fractal", "text": "Fractal\n\nIn mathematics, a fractal is a detailed, recursive, and infinitely self-similar mathematical set whose Hausdorff dimension strictly exceeds its topological dimension. Fractals are encountered ubiquitously in nature due to their tendency to appear nearly the same at different levels, as is illustrated here in the successively small magnifications of the Mandelbrot set. Fractals exhibit similar patterns at increasingly small scales, also known as expanding symmetry or unfolding symmetry; If this replication is exactly the same at every scale, as in the Menger sponge, it is called a self-similar pattern.\n\nOne way that fractals are different from finite geometric figures is the way in which they scale. Doubling the edge lengths of a polygon multiplies its area by four, which is two (the ratio of the new to the old side length) raised to the power of two (the dimension of the space the polygon resides in). Likewise, if the radius of a sphere is doubled, its volume scales by eight, which is two (the ratio of the new to the old radius) to the power of three (the dimension that the sphere resides in). However, if a fractal's one-dimensional lengths are all doubled, the spatial content of the fractal scales by a power that is not necessarily an integer. This power is called the fractal dimension of the fractal, and it usually exceeds the fractal's topological dimension.\n\nAs mathematical equations, fractals are usually nowhere differentiable. An infinite fractal curve can be conceived of as winding through space differently from an ordinary line - although it is still 1-dimensional its fractal dimension indicates that it also resembles a surface.\nThe mathematical roots of fractals have been traced throughout the years as a formal path of published works, starting in the 17th century with notions of recursion, then moving through increasingly rigorous mathematical treatment of the concept to the study of continuous but not differentiable functions in the 19th century by the seminal work of Bernard Bolzano, Bernhard Riemann, and Karl Weierstrass, and on to the coining of the word \"fractal\" in the 20th century with a subsequent burgeoning of interest in fractals and computer-based modelling in the 20th century. The term \"fractal\" was first used by mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot in 1975. Mandelbrot based it on the Latin \"frāctus\" meaning \"broken\" or \"fractured\", and used it to extend the concept of theoretical fractional dimensions to geometric patterns in nature.\n\nThere is some disagreement amongst authorities about how the concept of a fractal should be formally defined. Mandelbrot himself summarized it as \"beautiful, damn hard, increasingly useful. That's fractals.\" More formally, in 1982 Mandelbrot stated that \"A fractal is by definition a set for which the Hausdorff-Besicovitch dimension strictly exceeds the topological dimension.\" Later, seeing this as too restrictive, he simplified and expanded the definition to: \"A fractal is a shape made of parts similar to the whole in some way.\" Still later, Mandelbrot settled on this use of the language: \"...to use \"fractal\" without a pedantic definition, to use \"fractal dimension\" as a generic term applicable to \"all\" the variants.\"\n\nThe consensus is that theoretical fractals are infinitely self-similar, iterated, and detailed mathematical constructs having fractal dimensions, of which many examples have been formulated and studied in great depth. Fractals are not limited to geometric patterns, but can also describe processes in time. Fractal patterns with various degrees of self-similarity have been rendered or studied in images, structures and sounds and found in nature, technology, art, architecture and law. Fractals are of particular relevance in the field of chaos theory, since the graphs of most chaotic processes are fractals.\n\nThe word \"fractal\" often has different connotations for laymen as opposed to mathematicians, where the layman is more likely to be familiar with fractal art than the mathematical concept. The mathematical concept is difficult to define formally, even for mathematicians, but key features can be understood with little mathematical background.\n\nThe feature of \"self-similarity\", for instance, is easily understood by analogy to zooming in with a lens or other device that zooms in on digital images to uncover finer, previously invisible, new structure. If this is done on fractals, however, no new detail appears; nothing changes and the same pattern repeats over and over, or for some fractals, nearly the same pattern reappears over and over. Self-similarity itself is not necessarily counter-intuitive (e.g., people have pondered self-similarity informally such as in the infinite regress in parallel mirrors or the homunculus, the little man inside the head of the little man inside the head ...). The difference for fractals is that the pattern reproduced must be detailed.\n\nThis idea of being detailed relates to another feature that can be understood without mathematical background: Having a fractional or fractal dimension greater than its topological dimension, for instance, refers to how a fractal scales compared to how geometric shapes are usually perceived. A regular line, for instance, is conventionally understood to be 1-dimensional; if such a curve is divided into pieces each 1/3 the length of the original, there are always 3 equal pieces. In contrast, consider the Koch snowflake. It is also 1-dimensional for the same reason as the ordinary line, but it has, in addition, a fractal dimension greater than 1 because of how its detail can be measured. The fractal curve divided into parts 1/3 the length of the original line becomes 4 pieces rearranged to repeat the original detail, and this unusual relationship is the basis of its fractal dimension.\n\nThis also leads to understanding a third feature, that fractals as mathematical equations are \"nowhere differentiable\". In a concrete sense, this means fractals cannot be measured in traditional ways. To elaborate, in trying to find the length of a wavy non-fractal curve, one could find straight segments of some measuring tool small enough to lay end to end over the waves, where the pieces could get small enough to be considered to conform to the curve in the normal manner of measuring with a tape measure. But in measuring a wavy fractal curve such as the Koch snowflake, one would never find a small enough straight segment to conform to the curve, because the wavy pattern would always re-appear, albeit at a smaller size, essentially pulling a little more of the tape measure into the total length measured each time one attempted to fit it tighter and tighter to the curve.\n\nThe history of fractals traces a path from chiefly theoretical studies to modern applications in computer graphics, with several notable people contributing canonical fractal forms along the way. According to Pickover, the mathematics behind fractals began to take shape in the 17th century when the mathematician and philosopher Gottfried Leibniz pondered recursive self-similarity (although he made the mistake of thinking that only the straight line was self-similar in this sense). In his writings, Leibniz used the term \"fractional exponents\", but lamented that \"Geometry\" did not yet know of them. Indeed, according to various historical accounts, after that point few mathematicians tackled the issues, and the work of those who did remained obscured largely because of resistance to such unfamiliar emerging concepts, which were sometimes referred to as mathematical \"monsters\". Thus, it was not until two centuries had passed that on July 18, 1872 Karl Weierstrass presented the first definition of a function with a graph that would today be considered a fractal, having the non-intuitive property of being everywhere continuous but nowhere differentiable at the Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences. In addition, the quotient difference becomes arbitrarily large as the summation index increases. Not long after that, in 1883, Georg Cantor, who attended lectures by Weierstrass, published examples of subsets of the real line known as Cantor sets, which had unusual properties and are now recognized as fractals. Also in the last part of that century, Felix Klein and Henri Poincaré introduced a category of fractal that has come to be called \"self-inverse\" fractals.\n\nOne of the next milestones came in 1904, when Helge von Koch, extending ideas of Poincaré and dissatisfied with Weierstrass's abstract and analytic definition, gave a more geometric definition including hand drawn images of a similar function, which is now called the Koch snowflake. Another milestone came a decade later in 1915, when Wacław Sierpiński constructed his famous triangle then, one year later, his carpet. By 1918, two French mathematicians, Pierre Fatou and Gaston Julia, though working independently, arrived essentially simultaneously at results describing what are now seen as fractal behaviour associated with mapping complex numbers and iterative functions and leading to further ideas about attractors and repellors (i.e., points that attract or repel other points), which have become very important in the study of fractals. Very shortly after that work was submitted, by March 1918, Felix Hausdorff expanded the definition of \"dimension\", significantly for the evolution of the definition of fractals, to allow for sets to have noninteger dimensions. The idea of self-similar curves was taken further by Paul Lévy, who, in his 1938 paper \"Plane or Space Curves and Surfaces Consisting of Parts Similar to the Whole\" described a new fractal curve, the Lévy C curve.\n\nDifferent researchers have postulated that without the aid of modern computer graphics, early investigators were limited to what they could depict in manual drawings, so lacked the means to visualize the beauty and appreciate some of the implications of many of the patterns they had discovered (the Julia set, for instance, could only be visualized through a few iterations as very simple drawings). That changed, however, in the 1960s, when Benoit Mandelbrot started writing about self-similarity in papers such as \"How Long Is the Coast of Britain? Statistical Self-Similarity and Fractional Dimension\", which built on earlier work by Lewis Fry Richardson. In 1975 Mandelbrot solidified hundreds of years of thought and mathematical development in coining the word \"fractal\" and illustrated his mathematical definition with striking computer-constructed visualizations. These images, such as of his canonical Mandelbrot set, captured the popular imagination; many of them were based on recursion, leading to the popular meaning of the term \"fractal\".\n\nIn 1980, Loren Carpenter gave a presentation at the SIGGRAPH where he introduced his software for generating and rendering fractally generated landscapes.\n\nOne often cited description that Mandelbrot published to describe geometric fractals is \"a rough or fragmented geometric shape that can be split into parts, each of which is (at least approximately) a reduced-size copy of the whole\"; this is generally helpful but limited. Authors disagree on the exact definition of \"fractal\", but most usually elaborate on the basic ideas of self-similarity and an unusual relationship with the space a fractal is embedded in. One point agreed on is that fractal patterns are characterized by fractal dimensions, but whereas these numbers quantify complexity (i.e., changing detail with changing scale), they neither uniquely describe nor specify details of how to construct particular fractal patterns. In 1975 when Mandelbrot coined the word \"fractal\", he did so to denote an object whose Hausdorff–Besicovitch dimension is greater than its topological dimension. It has been noted that this dimensional requirement is not met by fractal space-filling curves such as the Hilbert curve.\n\nAccording to Falconer, rather than being strictly defined, fractals should, in addition to being nowhere differentiable and able to have a fractal dimension, be generally characterized by a gestalt of the following features;\n\n\nAs a group, these criteria form guidelines for excluding certain cases, such as those that may be self-similar without having other typically fractal features. A straight line, for instance, is self-similar but not fractal because it lacks detail, is easily described in Euclidean language, has the same Hausdorff dimension as topological dimension, and is fully defined without a need for recursion.\n\nImages of fractals can be created by fractal generating programs. Because of the butterfly effect, a small change in a single variable can have an unpredictable outcome.\n\n\nFractal patterns have been modeled extensively, albeit within a range of scales rather than infinitely, owing to the practical limits of physical time and space. Models may simulate theoretical fractals or natural phenomena with fractal features. The outputs of the modelling process may be highly artistic renderings, outputs for investigation, or benchmarks for fractal analysis. Some specific applications of fractals to technology are listed elsewhere. Images and other outputs of modelling are normally referred to as being \"fractals\" even if they do not have strictly fractal characteristics, such as when it is possible to zoom into a region of the fractal image that does not exhibit any fractal properties. Also, these may include calculation or display artifacts which are not characteristics of true fractals.\n\nModeled fractals may be sounds, digital images, electrochemical patterns, circadian rhythms, etc.\nFractal patterns have been reconstructed in physical 3-dimensional space and virtually, often called \"in silico\" modeling. Models of fractals are generally created using fractal-generating software that implements techniques such as those outlined above. As one illustration, trees, ferns, cells of the nervous system, blood and lung vasculature, and other branching patterns in nature can be modeled on a computer by using recursive algorithms and L-systems techniques. The recursive nature of some patterns is obvious in certain examples—a branch from a tree or a frond from a fern is a miniature replica of the whole: not identical, but similar in nature. Similarly, random fractals have been used to describe/create many highly irregular real-world objects. A limitation of modeling fractals is that resemblance of a fractal model to a natural phenomenon does not prove that the phenomenon being modeled is formed by a process similar to the modeling algorithms.\n\nApproximate fractals found in nature display self-similarity over extended, but finite, scale ranges. The connection between fractals and leaves, for instance, is currently being used to determine how much carbon is contained in trees. Phenomena known to have fractal features include: \n\n\nSince 1999, more than 10 scientific groups have performed fractal analysis on over 50 of Jackson Pollock's (1912–1956) paintings which were created by pouring paint directly onto his horizontal canvases Recently, fractal analysis has been used to achieve a 93% success rate in distinguishing real from imitation Pollocks. Cognitive neuroscientists have shown that Pollock's fractals induce the same stress-reduction in observers as computer-generated fractals and Nature's fractals.\n\nDecalcomania, a technique used by artists such as Max Ernst, can produce fractal-like patterns. It involves pressing paint between two surfaces and pulling them apart.\n\nCyberneticist Ron Eglash has suggested that fractal geometry and mathematics are prevalent in African art, games, divination, trade, and architecture. Circular houses appear in circles of circles, rectangular houses in rectangles of rectangles, and so on. Such scaling patterns can also be found in African textiles, sculpture, and even cornrow hairstyles. Hokky Situngkir also suggested the similar properties in Indonesian traditional art, batik, and ornaments found in traditional houses.\n\nIn a 1996 interview with Michael Silverblatt, David Foster Wallace admitted that the structure of the first draft of \"Infinite Jest\" he gave to his editor Michael Pietsch was inspired by fractals, specifically the Sierpinski triangle (a.k.a. Sierpinski gasket), but that the edited novel is \"more like a lopsided Sierpinsky Gasket\".\n\nHumans appear to be especially well-adapted to processing fractal patterns with D values between 1.3 and 1.5. When humans view fractal patterns with D values between 1.3 and 1.5, this tends to reduce physiological stress.\n\nIf a circle boundary is drawn around the two-dimensional view of a fractal, the fractal will never cross the boundary, this is due to the scaling of each successive iteration of the fractal being smaller. When fractals are iterated many times, the perimeter of the fractal increases, while the area will never exceed a certain value. A fractal in three-dimensional space is similar, however, a difference between fractals in two dimensions and three dimensions, is that a three dimensional fractal will increase in surface area, but never exceed a certain volume. This can be utilized to maximize the efficiency of ion propulsion, when choosing electron emitter construction and material. If done correctly, the efficiency of the emission process can be maximized.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53236193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53236193", "title": "Francisco del Rincón", "text": "Francisco del Rincón\n\nFrancisco del Rincón, OM (29 January 1650 – 28 June 1723) was a Spanish-born Minim friar and prelate of the Catholic Church in the New World, in what is now the Dominican Republic, Venezuela, and Colombia.\n\nFrom 1705 to 1714, Rincón was Archbishop of Santo Domingo, and was appointed Archbishop of Caracas in 1714, but he declined to accept the position. In 1716, he was appointed Archbishop of Santafé en Nueva Granada (now the Archdiocese of Bogotá), where he served until his death in 1723. He also had political influence in the Viceroyalty of New Granada, serving as President of the Royal Audience of Santafé de Bogotá from 1717 to 1718.\n\nRincón was born on 29 January 1650 in Borox, Toledo, Spain. He was educated at the University of Bologna in Italy, where he graduated with a degree in theology.\n\nRincón joined the Order of Minims, where he held various leadership positions, including being the Provincial Superior of Castile. In Toledo, he served as synodal examiner of the Apostolic Nunciature, and qualifier of the Council of the Supreme and General Inquisition.\n\nOn 14 December 1705, Rincón was appointed by Pope Clement XI to be Archbishop of Santo Domingo in what is now the Dominican Republic. His episcopal consecration took place on 29 June 1707, with Bishop of Santiago de Cuba Jerónimo Nosti de Valdés, OS Bas., serving as principal consecrator.\n\nOn 26 February 1714, Pope Clement XI appointed Rincón Archbishop of Caracas, but he never took possession of the archdiocese. On 5 October 1716 he was appointed by Pope Clement XI as Archbishop of Santafé en Nueva Granada (now the Archdiocese of Bogotá). From 1717 until June 1718, he served as the President of the Royal Audience of Santafé de Bogotá. He was installed in his position as archbishop on 24 January 1718. He died of illness, in Bogotá on 28 June 1723 and was buried in the Primatial Cathedral of Bogotá.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38852341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38852341", "title": "Genetics of aging", "text": "Genetics of aging\n\nGenetics of aging is generally concerned with life extension associated with genetic alterations, rather than with accelerated aging diseases leading to reduction in lifespan.\n\nThe first mutation found to increase longevity in an animal was the \"age-1\" gene in \"Caenorhabditis elegans\". Michael Klass discovered that lifespan of \"C. elegans\" could be altered by mutations, but Klass believed that the effect was due to reduced food consumption (calorie restriction). Thomas Johnson later showed that life extension of up to 65% was due to the mutation itself rather than due to calorie restriction, and he named the gene \"age-1\" in the expectation that other genes that control aging would be found. The \"age-1\" gene encodes the catalytic subunit of class-I phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K).\n\nA decade after Johnson's discovery \"daf-2\", one of the two genes that are essential for dauer larva formation, was shown by Cynthia Kenyon to double \"C. elegans\" lifespan. Kenyon showed that the \"daf-2\" mutants, which would form dauers above would bypass the dauer state below with a doubling of lifespan. Prior to Kenyon's study it was commonly believed that lifespan could only be increased at the cost of a loss of reproductive capacity, but Kenyon's nematodes maintained youthful reproductive capacity as well as extended youth in general. Subsequent genetic modification (PI3K-null mutation) to \"C. elegans\" was shown to extend maximum life span tenfold.\n\nGenetic modifications in other species have not achieved as great a lifespan extension as have been seen for \"C. elegans\". \"Drosophila melanogaster\" lifespan has been doubled. Genetic mutations in mice can increase maximum lifespan to 1.5 times normal, and up to 1.7 times normal when combined with calorie restriction.\n\nIn yeast, NAD+-dependent histone deacetylase Sir2 is required for genomic silencing at three loci: the yeast mating loci, the telomeres and the ribosomal DNA (rDNA). In some species of yeast, replicative aging may be partially caused by homologous recombination between rDNA repeats; excision of rDNA repeats results in the formation of extrachromosomal rDNA circles (ERCs). These ERCs replicate and preferentially segregate to the mother cell during cell division, and are believed to result in cellular senescence by titrating away (competing for) essential nuclear factors. ERCs have not been observed in other species (nor even all strains of the same yeast species) of yeast (which also display replicative senescence), and ERCs are not believed to contribute to aging in higher organisms such as humans (they have not been shown to accumulate in mammals in a similar manner to yeast). Extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA) has been found in worms, flies, and humans. The origin and role of eccDNA in aging, if any, is unknown.\n\nDespite the lack of a connection between circular DNA and aging in higher organisms, extra copies of Sir2 are capable of extending the lifespan of both worms and flies (though, in flies, this finding has not been replicated by other investigators, and the activator of Sir2 resveratrol does not reproducibly increase lifespan in either species.) Whether the Sir2 homologues in higher organisms have any role in lifespan is unclear, but the human SIRT1 protein has been demonstrated to deacetylate p53, Ku70, and the forkhead family of transcription factors. SIRT1 can also regulate acetylates such as CBP/p300, and has been shown to deacetylate specific histone residues.\n\nRAS1 and RAS2 also affect aging in yeast and have a human homologue. RAS2 overexpression has been shown to extend lifespan in yeast.\n\nOther genes regulate aging in yeast by increasing the resistance to oxidative stress. Superoxide dismutase, a protein that protects against the effects of mitochondrial free radicals, can extend yeast lifespan in stationary phase when overexpressed.\n\nIn higher organisms, aging is likely to be regulated in part through the insulin/IGF-1 pathway. Mutations that affect insulin-like signaling in worms, flies, and the growth hormone/IGF1 axis in mice are associated with extended lifespan. In yeast, Sir2 activity is regulated by the nicotinamidase PNC1. PNC1 is transcriptionally upregulated under stressful conditions such as caloric restriction, heat shock, and osmotic shock. By converting nicotinamide to niacin, nicotinamide is removed, inhibiting the activity of Sir2. A nicotinamidase found in humans, known as PBEF, may serve a similar function, and a secreted form of PBEF known as visfatin may help to regulate serum insulin levels. It is not known, however, whether these mechanisms also exist in humans, since there are obvious differences in biology between humans and model organisms.\n\nSir2 activity has been shown to increase under calorie restriction. Due to the lack of available glucose in the cells, more NAD+ is available and can activate Sir2. Resveratrol, a stilbenoid found in the skin of red grapes, was reported to extend the lifespan of yeast, worms, and flies (the lifespan extension in flies and worms have proved to be irreproducible by independent investigators). It has been shown to activate Sir2 and therefore mimics the effects of calorie restriction, if one accepts that caloric restriction is indeed dependent on Sir2.\n\nAccording to the GenAge database of aging-related genes, there are over 1800 genes altering lifespan in model organisms: 838 in the soil roundworm (\"Caenorhabditis elegans\"), 883 in the bakers' yeast (\"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\"), 170 in the fruit fly (\"Drosophila melanogaster\") and 126 in the mouse (\"Mus musculus\").\n\nThe following is a list of genes connected to longevity through research on model organisms:\nNed Sharpless and collaborators demonstrated the first in vivo link between p16-expression and lifespan. They found reduced p16 expression in some tissues of mice with mutations that extend lifespan, as well as in mice that had their lifespan extended by food restriction. Jan van Deursen and Darren Baker in collaboration with Andre Terzic at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., provided the first in vivo evidence for a causal link between cellular senescence and aging by preventing the accumulation of senescent cells in BubR1 progeroid mice. In the absence of senescent cells, the mice’s tissues showed a major improvement in the usual burden of age-related disorders. They did not develop cataracts, avoided the usual wasting of muscle with age. They retained the fat layers in the skin that usually thin out with age and, in people, cause wrinkling. A second study led by Jan van Deursen in collaboration with a team of collaborators at the Mayo Clinic and Groningen University, provided the first direct in vivo evidence that cellular senescence causes signs of aging by eliminating senescent cells from progeroid mice by introducing a drug-inducible suicide gene and then treating the mice with the drug to kill senescent cells selectively, as opposed to decreasing whole body p16. Another Mayo study led by James Kirkland in collaboration with Scripps and other groups demonstrated that senolytics, drugs that target senescent cells, enhance cardiac function and improve vascular reactivity in old mice, alleviate gait disturbance caused by radiation in mice, and delay frailty, neurological dysfunction, and osteoporosis in progeroid mice. Discovery of senolytic drugs was based on a hypothesis-driven approach: the investigators leveraged the observation that senescent cells are resistant to apoptosis to discover that pro-survival pathways are up-regulated in these cells. They demonstrated that these survival pathways are the \"Achilles heel\" of senescent cells using RNA interference approaches, including Bcl-2-, AKT-, p21-, and tyrosine kinase-related pathways. They then used drugs known to target the identified pathways and showed these drugs kill senescent cells by apoptosis in culture and decrease senescent cell burden in multiple tissues in vivo. Importantly, these drugs had long term effects after a single dose, consistent with removal of senescent cells, rather than a temporary effect requiring continued presence of the drugs. This was the first study to show that clearing senescent cells enhances function in chronologically aged mice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41708748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41708748", "title": "Gottlieb Fluhmann", "text": "Gottlieb Fluhmann\n\nGottlieb Fluhmann (c. 1837 - c. 1892) was a reclusive cattle rancher in Park County, Colorado, whose mysterious disappearance was not resolved until 1944. Even then it was impossible more than a half-century later to determine what had caused his death.\n\nA native of Switzerland, Fluhmann was 5'4\" in stature and spoke in broken English. He came to the United States in the early 1860s. Making his way west to Colorado seeking gold, he settled in the Puma Hills north of Lake George in Park County \"a beautiful log cabin at the edge of a lush, spring-fed meadow.\" Five large windows offered a scenic view. The floor of his cabin was made of planks. Sanded boards lined the inside walls. There were built-in cabinets and molding around the ceiling.\nFew people ever visited Fluhmann, who was considered \"a suspicious, argumentative, and flighty old man with almost no friends and no relatives\" nearer than St. Louis, Missouri, where he had a niece, Alice Fluhmann. A nephew, John Fluhmann, lived in Crested Butte in Gunnison County in western Colorado. With his loyal mongrel dog, Fluhmann checked his cattle daily, armed with an 1886 .38-caliber Marlin rifle attached to his saddle and a .45-caliber pistol under his coat. Fluhmann believed that he was a victim of cattle thieves, but he was unable to stop the rustling. He even treated his cattle like personal pets.\nFluhmann built another domicile a mile away in a cave of a high rock cleft, from which he could watch for rustlers or other strangers who might approach his land, but no one knew of this outpost. Neighbors reported Fluhmann missing. A search party, including the nephew, was organized. Fluhmann was declared dead in 1894, probably one or two years after his death. His remains had not yet been found, but Fluhmann's estate was probated. He left behind \"a fine ranch and a thousand head of cattle.\" The administrator of the estate reported having sold 166 head of cattle in the spring of 1893. There was no explanation for the other cattle.\n\nIn 1944, a hunter on military leave, United States Army Master Sgt. Francis V. Brahler (1907-2001), then at Peterson Field, accidentally found Fluhmann's long-forgotten cave-cabin. Brahler entered through a window and found Fluhmann's possessions undisturbed and in excellent condition. The body was near the center of the cabin, as were remains of the dog. The Marlin rifle, ready for firing, was also there. The burial site of the skeleton is unknown. The mystery of what happened to the rancher continues.\n\n\"The Colorado Springs Gazette Telegraph\" reported that Brahler \nspotted the old window frame on the ledge and upon investigating, found the cave entrance. The big dishpan was still suspended with the letters, pipes, and other items, including two gold inlaid flintlocks. He took many of the items back with him to his campsite and returned the next day. This time he found a human skull and the bones of what appeared to be the skull of a dog.\n\nThere were reports of suicide. A newspaper article in 1893 in \"The Flume\" in the county seat of Fairplay reported that Fluhmann had \"remarked to different parties that he would kill himself [and that] when he did disappear, they would never be able to find him.\" \n\nFluhmann had reportedly quarreled with Benjamin Ratcliff, a rancher who lived thirty miles away in the Tarryall Valley. Author Midge Harbour in her 1982 book \"The Tarryall Mountains and the Puma Hills: A History,\" espouses the view that Ratcliff hunted down Fluhmann until he found the cave-cabin, where he shot Fluhmann dead without warning. Harbour proposes a scenario by which Ratcliff demeaned Fluhmann in a saloon, having claimed then to be eating tasty beef from Fluhmann's stock. The Ratcliff children then taunted Fluhmann. \n\nIn \"Pikes Peak Backcountry: The Historic Saga of the Peak’s West Slope\" (1999), Celinda Kaelin asserts that Fluhmann conceived his cave-cabin as an emergency plan to protect himself from outsiders. Kaelin explains her theory:\n\nWhen Fluhmann first disappeared, everyone, including the local sheriff assumed he had returned to Switzerland. But not Ratcliff. He knew his prey would never leave his beloved animals unattended. When the cattle still appeared well-cared-for after several months, Ratcliff began a systematic search for the little foreigner. He eventually discovered the cave one evening after months of searching. Ratcliff waited on the ledge above the cave until early the next morning. As Fluhmann cautiously opened the heavy door to greet the new day, Ratcliff fired sending a fatal bullet through the stock of Fluhmann’s gun and into his chest. He then climbed down to his victim and dragged him back into the cave.\nSurviving Ratcliff family members dispute the claim that Ratcliff murdered Fluhmann. They even question whether Ratcliff knew Fluhmann and cite \"exaggerated local commentary and inaccurate facts ... without proof.\" \n\nIn 1895, Ratcliff murdered three school board members, one of whom had reportedly spread false rumors of Ratcliff's alleged incestuous relationship with an older daughter. Within a year, he was hanged at the Colorado State Penitentiary at Cañon City. Despite the theories advanced in the Harbour and Kaelin books, Ratcliff had not been an initial suspect when Fluhmann went missing and was never charged in the disappearance.\n\nAnother possibility is that Fluhmann could have suffocated from warming or cooking inside the cave-cabin without proper ventilation. This could explain the neat condition of the domicile. \n\n"}
{"id": "2215084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2215084", "title": "Herrin massacre", "text": "Herrin massacre\n\nThe Herrin massacre took place on June 21-22, 1922 in Herrin, Illinois, in a coal mining area during a nationwide strike by the United Mineworkers of America (UMWA). Although the owner of the mine originally agreed with the union to observe the strike, when the price of coal went up, he hired non-union workers to produce and ship out coal, as he had high debt in start-up costs. \n\nEnraged that the owner had disregarded their agreement, on June 21, union miners shot at the strikebreakers going to work, where the mine had armed guards. When striking union members armed themselves and laid siege to the mine, the owner's guards shot and killed three white union miners in an exchange of gunfire. \n\nThe next day, union miners killed superintendent McDowell and 18 of 50 strikebreakers and mine guards, many of them brutally. A twentieth victim from the non-union group was later murdered, bringing the death total to 23.\n\nOn April 1, 1922 the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) began a nationwide strike. W. J. Lester, owner of the Southern Illinois Coal Company, operated a strip mine about halfway between Herrin and Marion, Illinois. Lester at first complied with the strike. \n\nAs he had only recently opened the mine, he had massive startup debts and was willing to negotiate with the UMWA to allow his mine to remain open, as long as no coal was shipped out. Under the agreement, some United Mine Workers members were allowed to continue working during the strike. Lester told an associate that local union leaders were friendly with him; however, he was warned this did not mean he had any control over the ordinary members.\n\nBy June, Lester's miners had dug out nearly 60,000 tons of coal. Strike-driven shortages drove up demand and the price of coal, and Lester figured he could make a $250,000 profit if he sold his coal. He decided to violate the agreement he had made with the union. When the UMWA members working for him objected, he fired all the union workers. \n\nLester brought in mine guards and 50 strikebreakers, who were vilified as \"scabs\" by the union men. They had been recruited by employment agencies in Chicago. On June 16, 1922, he shipped out sixteen railroad cars filled with coal. Testimony later revealed that his mine guards possessed machine guns. They aggressively searched passers-by, and \"they frighten women, they boast and are hard-boiled.\"\n\nLester, responding to a reporter's questions, said his steam shovel operators and the railroad workers were members of their respective unions. John L. Lewis, president of the UMWA, responded in a telegram on June 20. He called the Steam Shovelmen's Union an \"outlaw organization\" that had also provided strikebreakers elsewhere. UMWA members, he said, \"are justified in treating this crowd as an outlaw organization and in viewing its members in the same light as they do any other common strikebreakers.\"\n\nThere was confusion and disagreement between Lewis and William J. Tracy, representative of District No. 1, International Brotherhood of Steam Shovel and Dredgemen (IBSSD). In a widely publicized statement, Lewis said that two representatives of the UMWA had contacted the IBSSD, but \"have failed to secure any satisfaction.\" He did note that the Steam Shovel union had been suspended from the American Federation of Labor, to which the United Mine Workers also belonged. Lewis claimed that the IBSSD was also strikebreaking in Ohio. \n\nTracy responded that though he had sent four individuals to the Herrin site when requested by the owner, they turned away when they saw the guards. He said that no one from his organization was working in Herrin. Tracy also criticized the UMWA for not communicating adequately about the situation. \n\nIt is unclear if Lester was telling the truth, or if he had contacted the IBSSD to disguise the use of non-union workers. To Lewis, it did not matter. Lester's workers were not UMWA members, and the UMWA claimed sole jurisdiction over all coal miners.\n\nLewis' message was printed in newspapers, and miners throughout the region decided to take action. Early in the morning on June 21, a truck carrying Lester's guards and strikebreakers was ambushed near Carbondale, Illinois on its way to his mine. Three men were wounded and six others jumped into the river to escape. Later in the day several hundred union miners rallied in the Herrin cemetery. Lewis' message was read to the crowd, enraging them further. \n\nThe union miners marched into Herrin and looted the hardware store of its firearms and ammunition. At about 3:30 p.m., they surrounded Lester's mine. Lester's guards opened fire, killing two of the UMWA members and mortally wounding a third.\n\nThe mine superintendent, C.K. McDowell, called National Guard Col. Hunter to tell him the mine was surrounded and being fired upon. McDowell said he could not reach County Sheriff Thaxton, and pleaded for troops. Col. Hunter called Thaxton's deputy and told him to ask the Illinois National Guard Adjutant General for troops and to get out to the mine with as many men as possible to stop the attack and break up the mob action.\n\nThaxton's men did nothing. Hunter contacted the adjutant general himself and convinced him to mobilize troops. Lester, who had left the area several days earlier, was reached by phone in Chicago. Realizing the gravity of the situation, he agreed to close the mine for the remainder of the nationwide UMWA strike. \n\nHunter and a citizens' group laid out a plan to get a truce in place — telephoning superintendent McDowell to tell him to raise a white flag, and asking the UMWA sub-district vice president, Fox Hughes, to go to the mine and do the same. The method of getting the guards and nearly 50 strikebreakers safely out of the mine was to be worked out later.\n\nWhen Superintendent McDowell later reported by phone that the shooting had died down, Hunter and the citizens' group were optimistic that a disaster would be avoided. They decided the National Guard troops were not needed after all. Hughes went to the mine with a white flag, but he never took it out or raised it. He later said he had not seen McDowell raise a white flag, so he decided Lester's men had not lived up to the bargain. He went home and did nothing, later claiming he learned that his boss in the UMWA leadership, Hugh Willis, was now involved and decided his role was finished.\n\nDuring the evening, more union supporters stole guns and ammunition, and made their way to the strip mine. McDowell was to have called Hunter when the truce took effect. When Col. Hunter tried to telephone the mine, he found the phone lines had been cut. No law enforcement officers went to the mine, no government officials accompanied Hughes to ensure the white flags were raised, and no troops were activated by the National Guard despite repeated signs that Thaxton could not be counted on to act. No action was taken to enforce a truce.\n\nLate in the evening of June 21, Sheriff Thaxton reluctantly agreed to go to the mine to ensure the truce was carried out, and the superintendent and strikebreakers were given safe passage. Despite being urged to go immediately, he claimed he needed to rest. Thaxton promised to meet Hunter and Major Davis of the Carbondale National Guard company at the sheriff's office at 6 a.m. the following morning. \n\nThat evening, Hugh Willis, the local UMWA leader, spoke to union supporters in Herrin. Willis said of the strikebreakers: \"God damn them, they ought to have known better than to come down here; but now that they're here, let them take what's coming to them.\" Gunfire continued throughout the night, and the mob began destroying equipment to prevent the mine from reopening. They used hammers, shovels, and dynamite to wreck the draglines and bulldozers, while keeping the strikebreakers pinned down inside coal cars and behind barricades.\n\nThe strikebreakers sent out a mine guard, Bernard Jones, with an apron tied to a broomstick. Jones told the mob the men would surrender if their safety would be guaranteed. He was told, \"Come on out and we'll get you out of the county.\" The nearly 50 strikebreakers, guards and superintendent McDowell did as they were told, and the union miners began marching them all to Herrin, five miles away. After about a half mile, the strikebreakers encountered more men waiting at Crenshaw Crossing. One of them shouted, \"The only way to free the county of strikebreakers is to kill them all off and stop the breed!\" The mob grew more agitated and violent as the procession of prisoners continued. Some struck the strikebreakers with the butts of their rifles and shotguns.\n\nBy about half mile past Crenshaw Crossing at Moake Crossing, superintendent McDowell was already bloodied and limping, unable to walk any further. A union man told him, \"I'm going to kill you and use you for bait to catch the other men.\"\n\nHe and another man grabbed McDowell and led him down a side road. Gunshots were heard, and the rest were forced to continue toward Herrin. A farmer later discovered McDowell's body. He had been shot four times – twice in the stomach, and once each in the chest and head. A car drove up to the procession, and a man came out whom some said they overheard being called \"Hugh Willis\" and \"the president.\" According to the accounts of surviving captives, Willis said, \"Listen, don't you go killing these fellows on a public highway. There are too many women and children and witnesses around to do that. Take them over in the woods and give it to them. Kill all you can.\"\n\nThe strikebreakers were taken into the woods, where they reached a barbed wire fence. They were told to run for their lives. A union man shouted, \"Let's see how fast you can run between here and Chicago, you damned gutter-bums!\" The mob opened fire as they ran. Many of the non-union men were caught in the fence and shot dead. Others, making it over the fence but not knowing where they were, ran through Harrison's Woods toward Herrin, a mile further north. One strikebreaker was caught and hanged, and three more were shot to death at his feet. The assistant superintendent of the mine was still alive but unconscious. A union man noticed and shot him in the head. The chase continued into the morning of the 22nd. Six men were shot and killed outside Smith's Garage in the town. \n\nSix strikebreakers were recaptured and ordered to remove their shirts and shoes. They were told to crawl to Herrin Cemetery. By noon a crowd of about 1,000 spectators had gathered at the cemetery. They watched as the strikebreakers were roped together, and union men took turns beating and shooting them. They were also urinated upon. Those still alive at the end had their throats cut by a union man with a pocketknife. Townspeople came to watch and taunt the dead and dying along the route to the cemetery. A reporter tried to give a dying man some water and was told that if he did, \"he wouldn't live to see the next day.\"\n\nSheriff Thaxton had failed to meet Col. Hunter and Major Davis at his office at 6 a.m. as promised; he finally showed up at 8 a.m. By then Hunter and Davis had already heard rumors of the violence against the strikebreakers. When the three finally arrived at the mine, what remained of the operation was in flames, and they learned the mob had left three hours earlier.\n\nWhen they traced the steps of the mob, they found the grisly evidence of the dead, dying, and wounded. Men with injuries were taken to Dr. J. Taylor Black's Herrin Hospital. In total, 19 of the 50 strikebreakers died during the massacre, and another was murdered shortly after. Three union miners had been shot and killed during the siege of the strip mine the first day, bringing the total number of victims to 23.\n\nThe dead strikebreakers were laid out in the Dillard Building in downtown Herrin. Most of the town turned out to look at them. Some gazed quietly, others cursed and spat on the bodies. Sixteen of the 19 strikebreakers killed in the action were buried in the potter's field area of Herrin Cemetery on June 25, 1922. A seventeenth victim was buried in October 1922 after he died following unsuccessful surgery for injuries incurred in the violence. Thousands attended the funerals of the three union miners who were shot and died at the beginning of the siege.\n\nThe nation reacted to the massacre with disgust. One newspaper editorial said \"Herrin, Illinois should be ostracized. Shut off from all communication with the outside world and the people there left to soak in the blood they have spilled.\" President Warren Harding characterized it as a \"shocking crime, barbarity, butchery, rot and madness.\" Others also compared the people of Herrin to the alleged behavior of German troops during World War I.\n\nLester, whose double-dealing had set the tragic events into motion, made a significant profit when the union bought his mine at \"a handsome price\" in order to avoid lawsuits.\n\nAt first, the inquest held by the coroner concluded that all the strikebreakers were killed by unknown individuals, and stated that \"the deaths of the decedents were due to the acts direct and indirect of the officials of the Southern Illinois Coal Company.\" He recommended that the company and its officers be investigated in order to affix appropriate responsibility on them. \n\nTwo trials were held, the first on November 7, 1922, and the second in the winter of 1923. Only six men were indicted for the massacre, and the first two trials ended in acquittals for all the defendants. The prosecution gave up and dismissed the remaining indictments. Otis Clark was the first man to be tried on a total of 214 charges. Two years later, Clark was shot and killed by an unknown assailant. Another of the accused died in a mine accident.\n\nA Williamson County grand jury investigating the incident faulted the Southern Illinois Coal Company for introducing strike breakers and armed guards, and for committing illegal activities such as closing public highways. It criticized the state administration for refusing to take necessary measures once the trouble had begun. Herbert David Croly of \"The New Republic\" criticized the state of Illinois for allowing the Illinois Chamber of Commerce to fund the investigation. \n\nCroly described the retaliation for the deaths of two strikers (the third had been mortally wounded) as \"atrocious\". He noted that while the union miners were likely to escape punishment for killing the African-American strikebreakers, officials who have harmed strikers—such as Major Patrick Hamrock of the Colorado National Guard at Ludlow, or Wheeler after Bisbee—likewise frequently escaped justice. Croly noted that the local government was sympathetic to the union, as was public sentiment. He said that under such circumstances, the union had a responsibility to police its own members.\n\nIn November 2013, eight missing graves of massacre victims were discovered by a research team led by Steven Di Naso, Eastern Illinois University geologist; and Scott Doody, author and historian. By October 2015, the team had determined the last eight graves of victims from the Herrin Massacre. Following the events of June 21-22, 1922, 16 of the victims had been buried in unmarked graves in the potter's field area of Herrin Cemetery. The other three had been claimed by family members after their murders. A seventeenth victim was buried there after he died in October 1922, from injuries suffered during the massacre. For nearly a century, exact burial locations of the victims had been lost. The discovery of the graves provided conclusive answers to the whereabouts of these victims. The team also documented that families had arranged for the remains of five victims to be removed from these graves and reinterred in their hometowns.\n\nFollowing the discovery of the unmarked graves, the city erected a monument in June 2015 at the potter's field area of the Herrin cemetery to recognize and memorialize the 17 massacre victims who were buried here. In November 2015, the city announced that it was ending any more excavations associated with the Herrin massacre project. If family of a victim wanted exploration, they would have to make a specific request to the city council. The research team was satisfied that they have been able to identify the 17 persons buried at the Herrin cemetery from the massacre.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15154845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15154845", "title": "Heterospory", "text": "Heterospory\n\nHeterospory is the production of spores of two different sizes and sexes by the sporophytes of land plants. The smaller of these, the microspore, is male and the larger megaspore is female. Heterospory evolved during the Devonian period from isospory independently in several plant groups: the clubmosses, the arborescent horsetails, and progymnosperms. This occurred as part of the process of evolution of the timing of sex differentiation.\n\nHeterospory developed due to natural selection pressures that encouraged an increase in propagule size. This may first have led to an increase in spore size and ultimately resulted in the species producing larger megaspores as well as smaller microspores.\n\nHeterospory evolved from homospory many times, but the species in which it first appeared are now extinct. Heterosporic plants that produce seeds are their most successful and widespread descendants. Seed plants constitute the largest subsection of heterosporic plants.\n\nMicrospores are haploid spores that in endosporic species contain the male gametophyte, which is carried to the megaspores by wind, water currents or animal vectors. Microspores are nearly all nonflagellated, and are therefore not capable of active movement. The morphology of the microspore consists of an outer double walled structures surrounding the dense cytoplasm and central nucleus.\n\nMegaspores contain the female gametophytes in heterosporic plant species. They develop archegonia that produce egg cells that are fertilized by sperm of the male gametophyte originating from the microspore. This results in the formation of a fertilized diploid zygote, that develops into the sporophyte embryo. While heterosporous plants produce fewer megaspores, they are significantly larger than their male counterparts.\n\nIn exosporic species, the smaller spores germinate into free-living male gametophytes and the larger spores germinate into free-living female gametophytes. In endosporic species, the gametophytes of both sexes are very highly reduced and contained within the spore wall. The microspores of both exosporic and endosporic species are free-sporing, distributed by wind, water or animal vectors, but in endosporic species the megaspores and the megagametophyte contained within are retained and nurtured by the sporophyte phase. Endosporic species are thus usually dioecious, a condition that promotes outcrossing. Some exosporic species produce micro- and megaspores in the same sporangium, a condition known as homoangy, while in others the micro- and megaspores are produced in separate sporangia (heterangy). These may both be borne on the same monoecious sporophyte or on different sporophytes in dioicous species.\n\nHeterospory was a key event in the evolution of both fossil and surviving plants. The retention of megaspores and the dispersal of microspores allow for both dispersal and establishment reproductive strategies. This adaptive ability of heterospory increases reproductive success as any type of environment favors having these two strategies. Heterospory stops self-fertilization from occurring in a gametophyte, but does not stop two gametophytes that originated from the same sporophyte from mating. This specific type of self-fertilization is termed as sporophytic selfing, and it occurs most commonly among angiosperms. While heterospory stops extreme inbreeding from occurring, it does not prevent inbreeding altogether as sporophytic selfing can still occur.\n\nA complete model for the origin of heterospory, known as the Haig-Westoby model, establishes a connection between minimum spore size and successful reproduction of bisexual gametophytes. For the female function, as minimum spore size increases so does the chance for successful reproduction. For the male function, reproductive success does not change as the minimum spore size increases.\n"}
{"id": "29229404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29229404", "title": "Individualism Index", "text": "Individualism Index\n\nThe Individualism Index (IND or IDV) refers to an individual’s independence from organizations or collectivity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39821588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39821588", "title": "Ivane Abashidze", "text": "Ivane Abashidze\n\nIvane Abashidze (; died 12 December 1822) was a Georgian nobleman of the Abashidze family and a claimant to the throne of Imereti during the revolt against the Russian rule in 1820. He was murdered in exile in the Ottoman Empire.\n\nIvane Abashidze came from one of the leading noble Georgian families, which had once attained, in the person of Giorgi–Malakia Abashidze, to the crown of the western Georgian kingdom of Imereti from 1702 to 1707. His father was Prince Kaikhosro Abashidze (died 1810) and his mother was Princess Darejan (1756–1827), a daughter of King Solomon I of Imereti, whom Kaikhosro wed in 1768.\n\nIvane Abashidze's involvement in politics was associated with the anti-Russian revolt in Imereti from 1819 to 1820. Imereti had been absorbed by Russia in 1810 and the former kingdom had been in a renewed rebellion by 1819. In 1820, Ivane—hitherto a \"loyal\" Russian subject—was nominated, by virtue of being Solomon I's grandson, as a king of Imereti by one of the rebel noble parties, dominated by the Abashidze clan. Overwhelmed by the Russian troops, Abashidze fled to Kaikhosro Gurieli, an uncle of his wife, in the Principality of Guria, whose many nobles also joined the Imeretian rebellion. The Russian colonel Puzirevsky, sent in Guria to enforce the surrender of the fugitive pretender, was killed. Abashidze and the Gurians then carried operations into Imereti and finally entrenched themselves in the Khani gorge. In July 1820, the Russians under General Velyaminov occupied the gorge and then overran Guria. Ivane Abashidze's family were rounded up, but he escaped capture by the Russians and fled to the Ottoman territory. His mother, Darejan, was arrested and deported to Russia. She would outlive her son and die in Moscow in 1827. In the meantime, the loyal prince-regnant of Guria, Mamia V Gurieli, successfully negotiated the return of Ivane's Gurian wife and his children from the road to their exile in Russia. \n\nIvane Abashidze was murdered near the Ottoman-controlled town of Akhaltsikhe, in 1822, allegedly at the instigation of Prince Vakhtang, a scion of the Imeretian royals, also an anti-Russian rebel and pretender to the throne of Imereti.\n\nIvane Abashidze was married to Princess Elisabed, a daughter of Simon II Gurieli, Prince of Guria. They had two sons, Kaikhosro and Giorgi, and a daughter, Ekaterine. Ekaterine eventually married Prince Rostom Tsereteli and became the mother of the popular Georgian writer Akaki Tsereteli.\n"}
{"id": "2373525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2373525", "title": "John Townshend, 4th Marquess Townshend", "text": "John Townshend, 4th Marquess Townshend\n\nRear Admiral John Townshend, 4th Marquess Townshend (28 March 1798 – 10 September 1863), known as John Townshend until 1855, was a British nobleman, peer, politician, and naval commander.\n\nTownshend was the son of Lord John Townshend, younger son of George Townshend, 1st Marquess Townshend. His mother was Georgiana Anne Poyntz. He served in the Royal Navy and achieved the rank of Rear-Admiral. Between 1847 and 1855 he also sat as a Member of Parliament (MP) for Tamworth. In the latter year he succeeded his first cousin in the marquessate and entered the House of Lords.\n\nLord Townshend married Elizabeth Jane Crichton-Stuart, daughter of Lord George Stuart, younger son of John Crichton-Stuart, 1st Marquess of Bute, on 18 August 1825. They had five children:\n\n\nLord Townshend died in September 1863, aged 65, as result of a fall from his horse in the grounds of his home, Raynham Hall, and was buried at East Raynham, Norfolk. He was succeeded in his titles by his eldest son John. Lady Townshend died in 1877.\n\n"}
{"id": "41173918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41173918", "title": "Josefa Segovia", "text": "Josefa Segovia\n\nJosefa Loazia, also more commonly known as \"Juanita\"or \"Josefa Segovia\", was a Mexican-American woman who was executed by hanging in Downieville, California on July 5, 1851. She was found guilty of murdering a man, Frederick Cannon, who attempted to assault her. She is known to be the first and only woman to be hanged in California. Many discrepancies exist regarding the circumstances of her death. Josefa's death has many connections and relevancy to the larger history of Latina/os in the United States because it shows how her racial status affected perception of her and how devalued the life of a Mexican American woman was. Josefa's death highlights the discrimination and violence against Latinos in the latter half of the nineteenth century. Upon the end of the Mexican–American War, the discovery of gold in California, and the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, life for Mexicans in what had become the United States was changed completely. They lost their property, political power, and their culture was deemed worthless They became segregated and did not have opportunities for advancement. This discrimination affected and applied to both rich and poor Mexicans. In Anglo journals and other media, Mexican women were depicted as flashy and morally deviant \"sirens\". This is apparent in how Josefa's story was presented in Anglo media. In complete disregard of her identity, she came to be known as \"Juanita\" after her death, a stereotypical name for a Mexican woman.\n\nNot much is known about the early life of Josefa Loaiza. The date of her birth is unknown. Josefa Segovia's true name has been a topic of great debate among historians and scholars. Before the Chicano Civil Rights Movement, most male scholars contended that Josefa had no recorded last name. For example, in Gordon Young's \"Days of 49\", he says that her name was \"Juanita\". Bancroft also uses the name Juanita, although his use of it suggests that it is not the correct name. Throughout his account of the events at Downieville he refers to Segovia as either \"The Mexican\" or \"the little woman\" only assigning her a name during his description of her trial. This lack of any name for her for much of the account suggests that the name Juanita was simply chosen as a generic name for a Mexican woman. Historian Rodolpho F. Acuna claimed her name was Juana Loaiza citing an 1877 Schedule of Mexican Claims Against the United States that listed one Jose Maria Loiza as claiming damages for the lynching of his wife. Doubt is cast upon this name however, as it does not show up in the 1850 census, suggesting that the claim may have been fraudulent. It wasn't until Martha Cotera, an influential activist of both the Chicano Movement and Chicana Feminist Movement, informed Chicano scholars in 1976 that her last name was Segovia.\n\nIrene I. Blea's book \"U.S. Chicanas and Latinas in a Historical Context\" claims that Josefa was a Sonoran and of good character. She was about 26 years old at the time of her death. Kerry Segrave recounts Josefa Segovia's life in Downieville, California, also known as \"The Forks\" for its location at the north fork of the Yuba River. She lived with a Mexican gambler, José, in a small house on the main street of town. It is not completely clear if they were married or not.\n\nJosefa was probably not married to José, but she did live with him. Therefore, she received a bad reputation. According to one account, Juanita (read Josefa) was slender and barely tall. The same account states that Josefa was beautiful, vivacious and intelligent. Some say that she was not at all disliked in the mining camp in Downieville.\n\nDownie relates the story in the following fashion. Juanita had accompanied her partner to Downieville from Mexico and both lived in an adobe house. Downie states, \"Whether she was his wife or not makes no difference in this story.\" He further describes her figure as \"richly developed and in strict proportions.\" Only her temper was \"not well balanced.\" Celebrating the Fourth of July, Cannon and companions were returning from the dram shop at a late hour, with Cannon staggering from the influence of liquor. Along the way, he stumbled through the door of the adobe hut. His friends quickly pulled him back outside and they proceeded home. Mortified the next morning of his embarrassing blunder, he proceeded to the hut to offer an apology in Spanish. This did not go well with the Mexican couple, and Juanita grew angry. In a rage, she drew a knife and stabbed Cannon. Soon a \"mob of infuriated men\" gathered, ready to invoke the \"miner's law\" of a \"Life for Life\". Only a Mr. Thayer came to her defense, but to no avail as she was quickly tried and found guilty. A scaffold was erected and the \"howling blood-thirsty mob...cried for vengeance\" according to Downie. Downie states Juanita retold the story of the \"unfortunate incident\", how she had been \"provoked\" and if done so again would \"repeat her act.\" She then took the rope, placed the noose around her neck, said \"Adios Senors!\" and \"leaped from the scaffold into eternity.\" Downie concludes by stating \"it was one of those blots that stained the early history of California.\" \n\nIn 1835, Andrew Jackson tried to buy California for $3.5 million, but Mexico refused the offer. Ten years later, James K. Polk suggested annexing Texas, but also put California as a high priority on his list of territory to acquire. The US and Mexico went to war on May 13, 1846. Two years later on February 2, 1848, the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo was signed. What neither the U.S. or Mexico realized was that 9 days earlier, gold had been found in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada. It is estimated that between 1848 and 1852, as many as 25,000 Mexicans migrated to California to mine. In the fall of 1848, as many as 3,000 Mexicans migrated to the mining regions. Often, they traveled as entire families. After hearing of the gold, thousands of American men borrowed money, mortgaged their homes, or spent their life savings to travel to California and take advantage of the opportunity to find gold. Because society at the time was based on a waged labor, the idea that a person could obtain wealth by finding gold became irresistible. By 1849, the population of non-native Californians grew to over 100,000. Two-thirds of this non-native population were Americans. Despite the fact that the work of mining was the hardest kind of labor, the promise of gold drew miners west every year.\n\nIn 1848, when the California Gold Rush began, the population of the state was a Mexican majority. However, this Mexican population fell to 15% by 1850 and to 4% by 1870. Northern California, where Downieville is located, received the majority of the Anglo migration during the beginning of the Gold Rush. The Mexican majority in 1848 allowed for many successes for early racial relations. For example, all state laws and regulations were to be translated into Spanish. This continued until the rapid establishment of a statewide Anglo majority, which left the Mexican-Americans politically powerless. The last major political event where Mexicans had any influence in California was the 1849 state constitutional convention because they were soon greatly outnumbered. Political influence first declined in the north where the gold mining areas attracted Anglo pioneers. By 1851, legislation contrary to the interests of Mexican-Americans began to be enacted. For example, property taxes in the six southern counties where most Mexicans resided were five times higher than the average \n\nThe Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, signed by the United States and Mexico to end the war, did not explicitly define the rights of Mexicans in the newly acquired territories of the U.S. However, it guaranteed them the same rights as U.S. citizens, but this guarantee was not upheld. Lynching in the United States of Mexicans and Mexican-Americans was common in the second half of the nineteenth century. In California, Mexicans only constituted a small portion of the population at this time which was not more than 15%. However, Latinos make up over one third of lynch mob victims between 1850 and 1895. Lynching was common since Mexicans were constantly accused of stealing gold or horses, and of killing or raping Anglo women. The last recorded instance of lynching in California is the 1892 murder of Francisco Torres, but lynching continued in Texas \n\nThis is a small example of how Mexicans were viewed because the town of Downieville would not have seen any reason to have any more Mexicans in their community or their state.\n\nDuring the 1840s, many Americans started moving west into Texas, Oregon, and California. The Americans thought California was a great place for opportunity. Mexicans were considered lazy because they failed to take advantage of the natural resources of the Southwest. Members of the elite class of Mexicans in the newly acquired U.S. territories separated themselves from the markedly mestizo, or mixed race, Mexican lower classes. For the most part, Mexicans were considered a distinct and inferior racial other who did not fit into the U.S. binary classification of race, and because of their impurity and status as a hybrid of Anglo, Indian, Spanish, and African blood, they were pushed to the margins of whiteness. Because of this racial prejudice and economic discrimination, Mexican-Americans became physically separated from Anglos as they were forced to live in specific neighborhoods which became prime areas for the manifestation of poverty, disease and crime. The boundaries between Anglos and Mexicans contributed to the misunderstanding and suspicion between the two groups which increased the frequency of the racial stereotyping experienced by Mexicans. However, racial stereotypes were not the only factor that lead to mob violence against and lynching of Mexicans. Gender was also a factor as nine Mexicans were lynched by Anglos for alleged transgressions of sexual norms. Anglos viewed Mexican men as having effeminate qualities and were denied the attributes of honor, honesty, and loyalty. Therefore, Anglos accused Mexicans of crimes such as cheating at cards or cowardly acts of murder. For Mexican women, they were often romanticized in literature as uncommonly beautiful, sophisticated, and graceful. Therefore, sometimes Mexican women could be viewed as able to be morally brought up by an Anglo man. However, the stereotype of many Mexican women of lower classes was that they were the opposite of the stereotypical Anglo woman. Whereas the Anglo woman was chaste and pious, Mexican women were viewed as depraved and sexually promiscuous. During the Gold Rush, the popular stereotype of the Mexican prostitute gained much power in popular culture as a way for Anglos to assert that Mexican women in the mines, like Josefa, turned to prostitution due to their innate moral degeneracy rather than because of their lack of economic opportunity \n\nRacism was an important factor in unleashing violence against Mexicans, but another determining factor was economic competition. In the industries of the Southwest United States, Mexicans were viewed by Anglos as a lazy people who had failed to capitalize on the rich resources of the Southwest. It was the \"manifest destiny\" of the white man, predicated on false assumptions of superiority, to develop this economic potential of the region. Therefore, any Mexican challenge to this was considered unacceptable due to the proprietary rights of the Anglo pioneers.\n\nThe Foreign Miners' Tax was introduced in California in 1850 with the goal of eliminating foreign competition, mainly Mexican but also from Chinese migrants, in the mining industry. The tax was designed to discourage immigration to the United States by removing the prospect of economic prosperity. The law required that all persons who were not native born or who had not become American citizens under the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, to pay twenty dollars for licenses allowing them to mine. The law provided an exception for California's Native Americans. The law was successful in getting Mexican miners to leave many mines for fear of their safety, and the tax fueled ethnic violence because it sanctioned the expulsion of miners who could not or would not pay. The next foreign miner tax of 1852 would target Asian miners \n\nLifestyle options in the mining industry were limited, especially for Latinos. For women, the options were wife or prostitute, which made them a \"good woman\" or a \"bad woman\". Basically, a woman's reputation was determined by whether her sexual activities were sanctioned or not, which is how the apparently unmarried Josefa might have been negatively perceived \n\nJoe Cannon, also possibly Frank or Frederick, was a successful American miner in Downieville in the summer of 1851. On the night of July 4, 1851, Josefa's \"husband\", José, was gambling as usual in the local gambling and drinking house. That night, Cannon and his companions tried to enter Josefa and José's home. Many accounts say that Cannon actually broke the front door to the house. However, they failed and left to gather more people. It is assumed by many that they were going to rape Josefa, who might have already been pregnant. The crowd returned and forced its way inside the house. Josefa stabbed Cannon and killed him in the early morning hours of July 5. It should be noted that some accounts say that after Joe's return the argument between him and Josefa started in the street whereupon she invited him in to her house for more discussion with the stabbing then taking place inside. Another version of these events may be found in a book by William Lewis Manly. His account states that \"Juanita\" was married and that she and her husband \"kept a monte game for the delectation of the miners...but beyond this fact absolutely nothing was said against her character.\" In Manly's version, Cannon \"got drunk one night and about midnight went to the house occupied by the Spanish woman and her husband and kicked the door down. Early the following morning he told his comrades that he was going to apologize to the woman for what he had done. He went alone to the house, and, while talking with the husband and wife, the woman suddenly drew a knife and stabbed Cannon to the heart. What had been said that provoked the deed was never known, further than that Juanita claimed she had been grossly insulted.\"\n\nThe American mining population in Downieville was enraged by Cannon's death. Josefa was put on trial the next day, and the jury consisted of Cannon's friends and companions while the rest of Downieville waited for the results. Supposedly, a physician, Dr. Cyrus D. Aiken, testified that Josefa was not in a fit condition to be hanged Protests immediately followed the doctor's testimony and he was forced from the stand and from the town. Moments later, Josefa was found guilty of the murder of Cannon. Also, Mr. Thayer, a lawyer from Nevada attempted to testify against the execution of Juanita but was beaten off the stand. Reportedly, he asked for a fair trial for Juanita to see if a murder had really been committed.\n\nFor the lynching, a scaffold was constructed on the bridge over the Yuba River. The town came to stand on the banks of the river and watch her execution. It was an important event to lessen the anger of the townspeople over Cannon's death. Josefa was hanged immediately following the trial, and some accounts say that her last words before she was executed were \"Adiós Señores\". She is widely known to be the first woman to be executed by hanging in California Mr. Manly wrote, \"Juanita went calmly to her death. She wore a Panama hat, and after mounting the platform she removed it, tossed it to a friend in the crowd, whose nickname was 'Oregon,' with the remark, 'Adios, amigo.' Then she adjusted the noose to her own neck, raising her long, loose tresses carefully in order to fix the rope firmly in its place; and then, with a smile and wave of her hand to the bloodthirsty crowd present, she stepped calmly from the plank into eternity. Singularly enough, her body rests side by side, in the cemetery on the hill, with that of the man whose life she had taken.\" Mr. Manly's book is generally a first person account of his experiences migrating to California to mine for gold. Although he did mine for gold near Downieville in 1851, he, by his own account, was not in Downieville on the dates in question. He does not cite the source for his version of the events though it seems conceivable he heard eye-witness accounts.\n\nThere are many conflicting stories and sources regarding Josefa's death. Eyewitnesses produce differing accounts of the assault, the trial, the hanging, and of Josefa herself. At the time, media referred to Josefa simply as \"Juanita\". The public is largely unaware of the lynching of Mexicans because, despite the recent rise in academic literature on lynching, scholars frequently tend to overlook anti-Mexican violence and lynching. There is no actual accurate count of how many Mexicans were lynched in the United States, so estimates must be the basis for studies of Mexican lynching victims Opinion on the incident from 19th century authors differs. In \"The Downieville Tragedy\" found in an 1887 compilation of his works, author, editor, and compiler of local histories Hubert Howe Bancroft comes down firmly on the side of the vigilantes arguing that it was unlikely Joe Cannon was on the attack that day and that he was instead murdered. He begins the piece with a description of frontier chivalry, with normally violent men in the early West would refuse to harm women, children, and the elderly, and uses this as evidence that Joe would not have entered Josefa's house to do harm. He then paints a picture of a hot tempered woman hitting her breaking point and committing murder.\n\nIn \"The Downieville Tragedy\" there is evidence that even at the time Anglo-American opinion was split on who represented the guilty party in the assault. Bancroft introduces a dissenting opinion in the form of an excerpt from the Sacramento Times and Transcript:\n\nThis presents a view opposite to that of Bancroft's being written not long before his by another Anglo publisher.\n\nThe treatment of Mexican-Americans during the Gold Rush is a shameful part of U.S. history. Most of these lynchings occurred in Texas and parts of California, and were carried out by impromptu vigilance committees (i.e., Texas Rangers serving \"justice\" in Texas). Lynchings were frequent and most of them were of innocent Mexicans. Many lynchings were prompted by Mexicans falsely being accused of stealing gold or horses or of killing or raping Anglos.\n\nIn California, Mexicans represented over one third of the lynch mob victims between 1850 and 1895, when they were of less than 15 percent of the population. Between 1848 and 1928, at least 597 Mexicans were lynched in the United States. Lynching was a way for Anglos to consolidate their colonial control over the recently conquered American West and exert sovereignty over the region. The mob violence only contributed to the displacement of Mexicans, as well as Native Americans, from their land, denial of access to natural resources, political disfranchisement, and economic dependency on the Anglo capitalist system \n\nToday, we think about Josefa's death in an opposite way from how it was viewed in 1851. By giving her the name \"Juanita\", it devalued her existence and the horrible events that occurred in Downieville, California. During the time of the lynchings, many whites stood as bystanders or were part of the vigilance committee. At \"Juanita's\" lynching, there was only one person that protested against her wrongful persecution. As a result of the Chicano Movement, the decades after the gold rush changed the way that Mexicans and Latinos were viewed in the United States.\n\nSome witnesses recalled Juanita saying before she died: \"'I would do the same again if I was so provoked.'\". This is one of many characteristics pointed out by some who are of the opinion that she must have been an aggressive woman. This has been used to advance the idea that those who lynched her may have been right that she had murdered Joe the miner when he was not actually threatening her safety. Another fact brought up to support this idea is that the townsfolk noted that she was quick to anger. Due to conflicting witness statements and vague details some modern commentators still fall on the side of Joe Cannon. This shows that while most current thoughts about the incident take race and gender status as strong indicators that the story given by the vigilantes was most likely inaccurate some today still believe that their actions were justified.\n\nAnother interpretation of her death that recognized racial distinctions in the thoughts of her death was made by Preston Dillard, \"So Miss Segovia MAY have been a saloon girl who was accused (but never convicted; important distinction) of a past crime, carried a knife and had a temper. ... these reasons sufficiently justify being lynched by a mob? If so, then half the women in Georgetown today would swing tomorrow. Miss Segovia deserved the fair trial she was deprived of. (Think about that) Would you have left those comments justifying her murder if she had been a white woman?\"\n"}
{"id": "3600962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3600962", "title": "Lee Aaker", "text": "Lee Aaker\n\nLee William Aaker (born September 25, 1943) is an American former child actor known for his appearance as Rusty \"B-Company\" in the television program \"The Adventures of Rin Tin Tin\".\n\nAaker's mother, Mrs. Myles Wilbour, was the owner of a dancing school in Los Angeles. (Another source says that she \"ran a children's theatre academy\" and that at age 4 she had Aaker \"singing and dancing at local clubs.\")\n\nOn television as a young child, he started appearing uncredited at the age of 8 in films such as \"The Greatest Show on Earth\" (1952) and \"High Noon\" (1952). He quickly moved to featured status by the end of that year.\n\nHe showed talent as the kidnapped Indian \"Red Chief\" in a segment of the film \"O. Henry's Full House\" (1952) and another kidnap victim as the son of scientist Gene Barry in \"The Atomic City\" (1952).\n\nIn 1953, he co-starred in the John Wayne western classic \"Hondo\" (1953) as the curious blond son of homesteader Geraldine Page.\n\nHe also appeared in other film styles such as the \"film noir\" thriller \"Jeopardy\" (1953) with Barbara Stanwyck, the horse opera drama \"Arena\" (1953) with Gig Young, and the comedies \"Mister Scoutmaster\" (1953) with Clifton Webb and \"Ricochet Romance\" (1954) with Marjorie Main.\n\nIn 1953-54, Aaker was among the many child actors who auditioned for the role of \"Jeff Miller\" on the original 1954 \"Lassie\" series, which later aired as \"Jeff's Collie\". That role went to Tommy Rettig. Two weeks later, Aaker won the role of \"Rusty\" on \"The Adventures of Rin-Tin-Tin\", co-starring James Brown (1920–1992) as Lieutenant Ripley \"Rip\" Masters. Aaker and Rettig were friends, and both shows were popular with audiences. The two actors and the two star dogs appeared together in a photograph used on the cover of the July 2, 1955 issue of \"TV Guide\".\n\nAaker told a newspaper reporter that when he reached the age of 21, he was paid a $10,000 lump sum by the studio that produced \"Rin Tin Tin\" \"and he spent the rest of the '60s traveling around the world 'as sort of a flower child.'\" Unable to find work as an adult actor, Aaker got involved as a producer and later worked as a carpenter.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Aaker was married to Sharon Ann Hamilton for two years. He has resided in Mammoth Lakes, California, for many years and is a special-needs ski instructor.\n\nIn 2005, Aaker won the Golden Boot Award as \"Kids of the West\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10131300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10131300", "title": "List of artificial pet games", "text": "List of artificial pet games\n\nA pet-raising simulation (sometimes called artificial pets) is a video game that focuses on the care, raising, breeding or exhibition of simulated animals. These games are software implementations of digital pets. Such games are described as a sub-class of life simulation game. The concept originated from role-playing video games, with the \"Megami Tensei\" series and \"\" being the earliest examples.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "467103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=467103", "title": "Little Walter", "text": "Little Walter\n\nMarion Walter Jacobs (May 1, 1930 – February 15, 1968), known as Little Walter, was an American blues musician, singer, and songwriter, whose revolutionary approach to the harmonica and impact on succeeding generations earned comparisons for him to such seminal artists as Django Reinhardt, Charlie Parker and Jimi Hendrix. His virtuosity and musical innovations fundamentally altered many listeners' expectations of what was possible on blues harmonica. He was inducted into The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2008 in the category Sideman, the only artist to be inducted specifically as a harmonica player.\n\nJacobs' date of birth is usually given as May 1, 1930, in Marksville, Louisiana. He was born without a birth certificate and when he applied for a Social Security card in 1940, his birthdate was listed as May 1, 1923 (over the years he often gave different years, but May 1 was constant). He was raised in Rapides Parish, Louisiana, where he learned to play the harmonica. He quit school and by the age of 12 had left rural Louisiana and travelled, working odd jobs and busking on the streets of New Orleans; Memphis; Helena and West Helena, Arkansas; and St. Louis. He honed his musical skills on harmonica and guitar performing with older bluesmen, including Sonny Boy Williamson II, Sunnyland Slim, Honeyboy Edwards and others.\n\nArriving in Chicago in 1945, he occasionally found work as a guitarist but garnered more attention for his already highly developed harmonica playing. According to Chicago bluesman Floyd Jones, Little Walter's first recording was an unreleased demo recorded soon after he arrived in Chicago, on which Walter played guitar backing Jones. Jacobs, reportedly frustrated with having his harmonica drowned out by electric guitars, adopted a simple but previously little-used method: He cupped a small microphone in his hands along with his harmonica and plugged the microphone into a public address system or guitar amplifier. He could thus compete with any guitarist's volume. However, unlike other contemporary blues harp players, such as Sonny Boy Williamson I and Snooky Pryor, who like many other harmonica players had also begun using the newly available amplifier technology around the same time solely for added volume, Little Walter purposely pushed his amplifiers beyond their intended technical limitations, using the amplification to explore and develop radical new timbres and sonic effects previously unheard from a harmonica or any other instrument. In a short biographical note on Little Walter, Madison Deniro wrote that he was \"the first musician of any kind to purposely use electronic distortion.\"\n\nJacobs made his first released recordings in 1947 for Bernard Abrams' tiny Ora-Nelle label, which operated out of the back room of Abrams' Maxwell Radio and Records store in the heart of the Maxwell Street district\nin Chicago. These and several other of his early recordings, like many blues harp recordings of the era, owed a strong stylistic debt to the pioneering blues harmonica player Sonny Boy Williamson I (John Lee Williamson). Little Walter joined Muddy Waters's band in 1948, and by 1950 he was playing acoustic (unamplified) harmonica on Waters's recordings for Chess Records. The first appearance on record of Little Walter's amplified harmonica was on Waters's \"Country Boy\" (Chess 1952), recorded on July 11, 1951. For years after his departure from Waters's band in 1952, Chess continued to hire him to play on Waters's recording sessions, and as a result his harmonica is featured on most of Waters's classic recordings from the 1950s. As a guitarist, Little Walter recorded three songs for the small Parkway label with Waters and Baby Face Leroy Foster (reissued on CD by Delmark Records as \"The Blues World of Little Walter\" in 1993) and on a session for Chess backing pianist Eddie Ware. His guitar playing was also featured occasionally on early Chess sessions with Waters and Jimmy Rogers.\n\nJacobs had put his career as a bandleader on hold when he joined Waters's band, but he stepped out front again when he recorded as a bandleader for Chess's subsidiary label Checker Records on May 12, 1952. The first completed take of the first song attempted at his debut session became his first hit, spending eight weeks in the number-one position on the \"Billboard\" R&B chart. The song was \"Juke\", and it is still the only harmonica instrumental ever to be a number-one hit on the \"Billboard\" R&B chart. The original title of the track file was \"Your Cat Will Play\", but was renamed at Leonard Chess' suggestion. (Three other harmonica instrumentals by Little Walter also reached the Billboard R&B top 10: \"Off the Wall\" reached number eight, \"Roller Coaster\" reached number six, and \"Sad Hours\" reached number two while \"Juke\" was still on the charts.) \"Juke\" was the biggest hit to date for any artist on Chess and its affiliated labels and one of the biggest national R&B hits of 1952, securing Walter's position on the Chess artist roster for the next decade.\n\nJacobs had fourteen top-ten hits on the \"Billboard\" R&B charts between 1952 and 1958, including two number-one hits (the second being \n\"My Babe\" in 1955), a level of commercial success never achieved by Waters or by his fellow Chess blues artists Howlin' Wolf and Sonny Boy Williamson II. Following the pattern of \"Juke\", most of Little Walter's singles released in the 1950s featured a vocal performance on one side and a harmonica instrumental on the other. Many of Walter's vocal numbers were written by him or Chess A&R man Willie Dixon or adapted from earlier blues themes. In general, his sound was more modern and up-tempo than the popular Chicago blues of the day, with a jazzier conception and rhythmically less rigid approach than that of other contemporary blues harmonica players.\n\nJacobs left Waters's band in 1952 and recruited his own backing band, the Aces, a group that was already working steadily in Chicago backing Junior Wells. The Aces—the brothers David and Louis Myers on guitars and Fred Below on drums—were credited as the Jukes on most of the Little Walter records on which they played. By 1955 the members of the Aces had each separately left Little Walter to pursue other opportunities and were initially replaced by the guitarists Robert \"Junior\" Lockwood and Luther Tucker and drummer Odie Payne. Among others who worked in Little Walter's recording and touring bands in the 1950s were the guitarists Jimmie Lee Robinson and Freddie Robinson, and drummer George Hunter. Little Walter also occasionally included saxophone players in his touring bands during this period, among them the young Albert Ayler, and Ray Charles on one early tour. By the late 1950s, Little Walter no longer employed a regular full-time band, instead hiring various players as needed from the large pool of blues musicians in Chicago.\n\nJacobs often played the harmonica on records by others in the Chess stable of artists, including Jimmy Rogers, John Brim, Rocky Fuller, Memphis Minnie, the Coronets, Johnny Shines, Floyd Jones, Bo Diddley, and Shel Silverstein. He also played on recordings for other labels, backing Otis Rush, Johnny Young, and Robert Nighthawk.\n\nJacobs suffered from alcoholism and had a notoriously short temper, which in late 1950s led to violent altercations, minor scrapes with the law, and increasingly irresponsible behavior. This led to a decline in his fame and fortunes, beginning in the late 1950s. Nonetheless he toured Europe twice, in 1964 and 1967 (the long-circulated story that he toured the United Kingdom with the Rolling Stones in 1964 has been refuted by Keith Richards). The 1967 European tour, as part of the American Folk Blues Festival, resulted in the only known film footage of Little Walter performing. Footage of Little Walter backing Hound Dog Taylor and Koko Taylor was shown on a television program in Copenhagen, Denmark, on October 11, 1967 was released on DVD in 2004. Further video of another recently discovered TV appearance in Germany during this same tour, showing Jacobs performing his songs \"My Babe\", \"Mean Old World\", and others, was released on DVD in Europe in January 2009; it is the only known footage of him singing. Other TV appearances in the UK (in 1964) and the Netherlands (in 1967) have been documented, but no footage of these has yet been uncovered. Jacobs recorded and toured infrequently in the 1960s, playing mainly in and around Chicago.\n\nIn 1967 Chess released a studio album, \"Super Blues\", featuring Little Walter, Bo Diddley, and Muddy Waters.\n\nA few months after returning from his second European tour, he was involved in a fight while taking a break from a performance at a nightclub on the South Side of Chicago. He apparently sustained only minor injuries in this altercation, but they aggravated the damage he had suffered in previous violent encounters, and he died in his sleep at the apartment of a girlfriend, at 209 East 54th Street in Chicago early the following morning. The official cause of death stated on his death certificate was coronary thrombosis (a blood clot in the heart); evidence of external injuries was so insignificant that the police reported that his death was due to \"unknown or natural causes\", and no external injuries were noted on the death certificate. His body was buried at St. Mary's Cemetery, in Evergreen Park, Illinois, on February 22, 1968. His grave remained unmarked until 1991, when fans Scott Dirks and Eomot Rasun had a marker designed and installed.\n\nThe music journalist Bill Dahl described Little Walter as \"king of all post-war blues harpists\", who \"took the humble mouth organ in dazzling amplified directions that were unimaginable prior to his ascendancy.\" His legacy has been enormous: he is widely credited by blues historians as the artist primarily responsible for establishing the standard vocabulary for modern blues and blues rock harmonica players. Biographer Tony Glover notes Little Walter directly influenced Junior Wells, James Cotton, George \"Harmonica\" Smith, and Carey Bell. He includes Jerry Portnoy, Rick Estrin of Little Charlie & the Nightcats, Kim Wilson, and Rod Piazza among those who later studied his technique and helped popularize it with younger players.\n\nLittle Walter's daughter, Marion Diaz Reacco, has established the Little Walter Foundation in Chicago, to preserve the legacy and genius of Little Walter. The foundation aims to create programs for the creative arts, including music, animation and video.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Also reached #106 on the \"Billboard\" Pop chart.\n\nLike most blues artists before the mid-1960s, Little Walter was a singles artist. The one album released during his lifetime, \"Best of Little Walter\", included ten of his charting singles plus two B-sides. After his death, various singles were compiled on albums, often with significant overlap. Currently available albums, released by the most recent Chess successor, are as follows:\n\nLittle Walter also recorded a number of songs as a sideman. Muddy Waters's \"The Definitive Collection\" (2006) and Jimmy Rogers's \"His Best\" (2003) (both on Universal) feature a selection of songs with Little Walter as an accompanist.\n\n"}
{"id": "22582879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22582879", "title": "Lorenz Hackenholt", "text": "Lorenz Hackenholt\n\nLorenz Hackenholt (26 June 1914 -missing 1945 declared legally dead as of 31 December 1945) was a member of the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) with the rank of \"Hauptscharführer\" (First Sergeant). During World War II Hackenholt built and operated the gas chamber at the Bełżec extermination camp in occupied Poland. In so doing, he personally carried out the murder of hundreds of thousands of people.\n\nHackenholt was deeply involved in the operation of death camps during the deadliest phase of the Holocaust in Poland, known as Operation Reinhard, as well as in other Nazi war crimes, including the murder of mental patients and the disabled in Action T4 programme of forced euthanasia.\n\nHackenholt's full name was Laurenzius Marie Hackenholt. He was born on 26 June 1914 in Gelsenkirchen/Ruhr. His father was Theodor Hackenholt and his mother was Elizabeth Wobriezek. He attended the local elementary school until he reached the age of 14. He then became an apprentice bricklayer. After he passed the trade examination he worked on various building sites.\n\nIn 1933, Hackenholt volunteered for the SS. After joining the SS he was sent to a training school on 1 January 1934. After that he volunteered for service in the army, where he was assigned to the 12th Engineers' Battalion. After two years military service he was discharged, and then joined the SS Death's Head troops. He was a skilled driver and mechanic and, beginning in March 1938, served at Sachsenhausen concentration camp in the motor pool. He also worked as a guard at Sachsenhausen.\n\nAction T4, the so-called \"Euthanasia Program\", lasted from early 1940 until the summer of 1941 when the gassings were stopped on Hitler's orders. In November 1939 Hackenholt was assigned to Action T4, when he was transferred to Berlin for 'special duty'. This special duty was under Viktor Brack. According to Werner Karl Dubois, another camp guard transferred to special duty with Hackenholt:\n\nThere were six T4 killing facilities. Hackenholt served in all of them. He drove a bus with the SS staff from facility to facility. He also removed the bodies from the gas chambers and burned them. For a while Hackenholt was a driver for \"SS-Untersturmführer\" Dr. August Becker, the T4 chemist who was responsible for delivering bottled carbon monoxide gas from I.G. Farben manufacturing plants to the T4 gas chambers. Hackenholt worked primarily in Grafeneck and Sonnenstein.\n\nIn the fall of 1941, some of the Action T4 personnel, including Hackenholt, were transferred to Lublin Reservation in occupied Poland where they came under the authority of \"SS-Brigadeführer\" Odilo Globocnik. On vacation leave, Hackenholt went to Berlin to marry Ilse Zillmer, who was then 29 years old. Hackenholt returned to Poland and was sent to Bełżec, a remote labour camp near the rail station,<ref name=\"M/MPwB\"></ref> to conduct experiments to establish a method for the mass killing of Jews by gassing. Hackenholt set up three gas chambers in an insulated barracks. Using engine exhaust, piped into the chambers from a disassembled Soviet tank, Hackenholt killed over 50,000 Jews in one month (mid March to mid April 1942). In August 1942, Hackenholt built and operated newer and larger gas chambers at Belzec. Once Belzec came into operation, a sign was placed over the gas chambers which said \"Hackenholt Foundation\"; with potted geraniums on either side of the entrance. Hackenholt also designed and operated gas chambers at the Treblinka and Sobibor extermination camps.\n\nHackenholt, who was called \"Hacko\" by other guards, was a tough, large man who was willing and able to do any task at the extermination camps, although he reportedly balked at cleaning up seeping corruption from bodies rotting in mass graves. At Belzec, where all ages of people were killed, some Jews, because of infirmity or age, could not enter the gas chamber. These people were instead laid down in the mass graves, and, according to the testimony of other guards, shot by Hackenholt. In 1943, when Himmler ordered the mass graves at Belzec to be reopened and the bodies burned, Hackenholt was in charge of the operation. Himmler considered Hackenholt to be \"one of the most deserving men of Operation Reinhard\" ().\n\nIn December 1943, Hackenholt and other personnel from Operation Reinhard were transferred to northern Italy (Trieste), where they attempted to find and kill the few remaining Italian Jews. In 1944 Hackenholt was awarded the Iron Cross (Second Class) for his role in Operation Reinhard.\n\nHackenholt disappeared after 1945, and based on an application by his wife was declared dead by a Berlin court on 1 April 1954, with an official date of death of 31 December 1945.\n\nHackenholt was supposedly killed in Italy in 1945, possibly by execution for selling guns to the partisans. However this was never quite certain. The West German authorities began an investigation in 1959. They were able to locate Hackenholt's wife and mother. Both certified that Hackenholt had not been heard from since the war, and surveillance of the wife's residence showed there were no attempts by him to visit her there. In 1961, the West German police were able to find Hermann Erich Bauer, who had been in the SS with Hackenholt. Bauer claimed that Hackenholt had definitely survived the war, because he had met him in 1946 near Ingolstadt, Bavaria. Hackenholt was going under a false name that he had acquired from a dead soldier. Bauer's statement was corroborated by a former Sobibor guard, who likewise said he had met Hackenholt after the war. The West German police conducted an investigation but were not able to locate Hackenholt, or to determine whether he might still be alive.\n\n"}
{"id": "9755768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9755768", "title": "Love Among the Walnuts", "text": "Love Among the Walnuts\n\nLove Among the Walnuts: or How I Saved My Family from Being Poisoned is a farcical, satirical young adult novel with fairy tale elements written by Jean Ferris. The story revolves around a young man, Sandy, whose family is poisoned by his scheming uncles in a bid to gain the family fortune. He moves them to Walnut Manor, a neighboring convalescent home, where, with the help of the nurse Sunnie, he tries to save his family and benefit the manor's misunderstood residents.\n\n\"Love Among the Walnuts\" was first published on September 1, 1998, by Harcourt. Reviews of the work have been mostly positive, with focus on the story's style and tone. It was listed as a YALSA Best Book for Young Adults and placed third on the ranked Teens' Top Ten Books list, both in 1999.\n\nHoratio Alger Huntington-Ackerman, a successful businessperson, marries Mousey Huntington-Ackerman (née Malone), a striving actor, and has a child named Sandy. They move with their butler Bentley and his wife Flossie to a new country estate called Eclipse with no neighbors except the residents of Walnut Manor, a convalescent home. One evening when Sandy is a young adult, his uncles Bart and Bernie visit Eclipse. The uncles feed the family a poisoned birthday cake in an attempt to inherit the family fortune, sending everyone but Sandy and Bentley into a coma.\n\nA court ruling mandates that a doctor be present to oversee care for the comatose patients (\"the sleepers\"). To meet this requirement, Sandy moves them next door to Walnut Manor. There, he meets Dr. Waldemar, the director of the facility, and Sunnie Stone, a nurse hired to care for the sleepers. While Bentley researches a cure of the sleepers' comas, Sandy and Sunnie acquaint themselves with the other patients of Walnut Manor and ultimately fall in love with one another.\n\nWith the help of Dr. Waldemar and the manor's residents, Sandy and Sunnie discover that Walnut Manor's patients were placed in the facility's care by their relatives, who, as Walnut Manor's board of directors, have been embezzling from the home. They expose the board of directors' misdeeds and Bentley revives the sleepers from their coma. Sandy, Sunnie, Dr. Waldemar, and the residents of Walnut Manor together thwart Bart and Bernie and send them to prison.\n\n\"Love Among the Walnuts\" was first published on September 1, 1998, by Harcourt. Reviewers recommended various appropriate reading ranges, including ages 12–14 and ages 10 and older. \n\nThe novel has been characterized as a farce, satire, and fairy tale. Alethea K. Helbig and Agnes Regan Perkins wrote that story's exploration of familial greed was \"in the style of a Victorian melodrama\" and Connie Tyrrell Burns, in \"School Library Journal\", described the story as \"a British farce without the off-color humor\". In their review of young adult literature that had received recognition by major literary publications between 1997 and 2001, Helbig and Perkins described \"Love Among the Walnuts\" as one of few recognized titles with humorous elements. They described the central theme of the novel as \"the value to personal and group well-being of loving-kindness and caring\". \n\n\"Love Among the Walnuts\" received mostly positive reviews. Helbig and Perkins commented that \"the large cast consists of individualized, complementary, and affectionately handled characters\" and the novel's themes \"are conveyed with skill and invention\". \"Publishers Weekly\" praised the story for its \"cast of offbeat characters and some punchy dialogue\" while writing that its \"plot will have more appeal for adults than children.\" In \"The Horn Book Magazine\", Anne St. John commented that Sandy's \"emotional responses and internal struggles will ring true with teenagers who are coming of age in a time of turmoil\". According to Elaine McGuire of \"Voice of Youth Advocates\", \"Love Among the Walnuts\" is \"dripping with charm but never cloying ... a fabulous book with lots of lessons about our sickeningly fast-paced '90s lifestyles.\" Paula Rohrlick, writing in \"Kliatt\", compared \"Love Among the Walnuts\" favorably to Ferris's later work, \"Once Upon a Marigold\", describing both stories as \"madcap\".\n\nFor certain reviewers, the tone and style reinforced the novel's quality. In \"School Library Journal\", Burns commented that \"Love Among the Walnuts\" \"is intentionally melodramatic, coincidental, improbable, and hilarious. The restrained, tongue-in-cheek tone heightens the humor of this spoof.\" \"Kirkus Reviews\" compared the tone and plot of the story to that of a film directed by Preston Sturges or Frank Capra, describing how it \"has an unconventional style and offbeat sense of humor that will delight readers or exhaust them, depending on their tolerance for screwball comedies.\" Nancy Hinkel, then Associate Editor at Alfred A. Knopf and Crown Books for Young Readers, wrote that the story has \"great writing, original ideas, and real style\" as well as \"a good dose of dry humor that slips past if you're not paying attention.\" Helbig and Perkins described the novel's style as \"fast moving, engaging, and witty.\"\n\nSeveral reviews indicated reservations in recommending \"Love Among the Walnuts\". \"Publishers Weekly\" wrote that \"Sandy's accelerated growth from a baby in the nursery to an adult smitten with Sunny (in the space of a chapter) early on in the novel leaves young readers little to identify with.\" \"Kirkus Reviews\" commented that \"a financial subplot and a muddle of characters, defined by their eccentricities, clog the pacing\" of the story while St. John in \"The Horn Book Magazine\" said that \"some of the characters are two-dimensional\".\n\n\"Love Among the Walnuts\" was one of 50 fiction titles selected as a 1999 Young Adult Library Services Association (YALSA) Best Book for Young Adults and was ranked third (after J. K. Rowling's \"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone\" and Louis Sachar's \"Holes\") on YALSA's list of Teens' Top Ten Books of 1999.\n"}
{"id": "46341344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46341344", "title": "Luciano Fernandes", "text": "Luciano Fernandes\n\nLuciano Jorge Fernandes (6 August 1940 – 5 December 1966) was a Portuguese footballer who played as a central defender.\n\nBorn in Olhão, Algarve, Luciano started out at local club S.C. Olhanense at age 19. His composed defending and assuredness in possession earned the nickname of \"Germano II\", in honour of S.L. Benfica player Germano. He moved to the latter in 1963, and coach Lajos Czeizler displayed him in the right-back position until he injured his knee, needing an operation; after he returned he got injured again, now in the ankle, only returning to full fitness in the 1966–67 season.\n\nOn 5 December 1966, Benfica's new hydro massage bath short-circuited with seven players inside, Luciano being the only one immersed. Eusébio, Jaime Graça and Santana escaped with burns, whilst José Carmo Pais, Domiciano Cavém and Amândio Malta da Silva were knocked unconscious until Graça managed to climb out the pool and cut off the power supply; Luciano died immediately at the age of 26, and the team played the rest of the campaign in black, winning the league.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21035619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21035619", "title": "Maternal near miss", "text": "Maternal near miss\n\nA maternal near miss (MNM) is an event in which a pregnant woman comes close to maternal death, but does not die – a \"near-miss\". Traditionally, the analysis of maternal deaths has been the criteria of choice for evaluating women's health and the quality of obstetric care. Due to the success of modern medicine such deaths have become very rare in developed countries, which has led to an increased interest in analyzing so-called \"near miss\" events.\n\nMaternal mortality is a sentinel event to assess the quality of a health care system. The standard indicator is the Maternal Mortality Ratio, defined as the ratio of the number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births. Due to improved health care the ratio has been declining steadily in developed countries. For example, in the UK 1952-1982 the ratio was halving every 10 years. In the European Union the ratio has now stabilized at around 10 to 20.\n\nThe small number of cases makes the evaluation of maternal mortality practically impossible Historically, the study of negative outcomes have been highly successful in preventing their causes, this strategy of prevention therefore faces difficulties when if the number of negative outcome drop to low levels. In the UK, for example, the most dramatic decline in maternal death was achieved in Rochdale, an industrial town in the poorest area of England. In 1928 the town had a Maternal Mortality Ratio of over 900 per 100,000 live births, more than double the national average of the time. An enquiry into the causes of the deaths reduced the ratio to 280 per 100,000 pregnancies by 1934, only six years later, then the lowest in the country.\n\nThe very low figures of maternal mortality have therefore stimulated an interest in investigating cases of life-threatening obstetric morbidity or maternal near miss. There are several advantages of investigating near miss events over events with fatal outcome \n\nThe growing interest is reflected in an increasing number of systematic reviews on the prevalence of near miss. The studies and reviews span \n\nThe World Health Organization defines a maternal near-miss case as \"a woman who nearly died but survived a complication that occurred during pregnancy, childbirth or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy.\"\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, if a woman present any of the conditions below during pregnancy, childbirth or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy and survive, she is considered as a maternal near miss case.\n\nCardiovascular dysfunction \nRespiratory dysfunction\nRenal dysfunction\nCoagulation dysfunction\nHepatic dysfunction\nNeurologic dysfunction\nUterine dysfunction\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49441428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49441428", "title": "Mesentoblast", "text": "Mesentoblast\n\nMesentoblasts, also called 4d cells, are the origins of mesoderm tissue formation. Mesentoblasts are found in the blastopore area between the endoderm and ectoderm. The mesentoblast migrates to the blastula where it reproduces to form a mass of cells that becomes the mesoderm.\n"}
{"id": "24202062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24202062", "title": "Naraka (Jainism)", "text": "Naraka (Jainism)\n\nNaraka (Sanskrit: नरक) is the realm of existence in Jain cosmology characterized by great suffering. Naraka is usually translated into English as \"hell\" or \"purgatory\". However, Naraka differs from the hells of Abrahamic religions as souls are not sent to Naraka as the result of a divine judgment and punishment. Furthermore, the length of a being's stay in a Naraka is not eternal, though it is usually very long—measured in billions of years. A soul is born into a Naraka as a direct result of his or her previous karma (actions of body, speech and mind), and resides there for a finite length of time until his karma has achieved its full result. After his karma is used up, he may be reborn in one of the higher worlds as the result of an earlier karma that had not yet ripened.\n\nThese realms are situated in the seven lower levels (\"adho lok\") of the universe while the human abode of Jambudvip is in the middle (\"madhya lok\") and the heavenly realms exist above (\"urdhva loka\"). These layers together, form the shape of a man with arms akimbo (the familiar 'keyhole' shaped emblem of Jainism), with the human realm of Jambudvip at the waist, \"adho lok\" below, \"urdhva lok\" above, and \"siddha lok\" or \"siddhashila\" (the realm of the siddhas) at or above the head. Many Jain temples are built to display this cosmology such Jambudvip in Hastinapur and the fifteen story Trilok Teerth Dham temple in Uttar Pradesh. The seven lower grounds are:\n\n\nThe first ground, owing to a predominance of \"ratnas\" or jewels, is called \"Ratnaprabha\". Similarly, the second, owing to a predominance of \"sarkara\" or gravel, is called \"Sarkraprabha\". The third owing to a predominance of \"valuka\" or sands, is called \"Valukaprabha\". The fourth, owing to an excess of \"panka\" or mud, is called \"Pankaprabha\". The fifth, owing to an excess of \"dhuma\" or smoke, is called \"Dhumaprabha\". The sixth, owing to a marked possession of \"tamas\" or darkness, is called \"Tamahprabha\", while the seventh, owing to a high concentration of \"mahatamas\" or dense darkness, is called \"Mahatamahprabha\".\n\nThe hellish beings (, \"\") are a type of soul which reside in these various hells. They are born in hells by sudden manifestation. The hellish beings each possess a \"vaikriya\" body (protean body which can transform itself and take various forms). They have a fixed life span in the respective hells where they reside. The minimum life span of hellish beings in the first to seventh hellish grounds is 10000 years, 1 \"sagaropama\" year (Ocean-measured years which are countless years as per Jain cosmology), 3 \"sagaropama\" years, 7 \"sagaropama\" years, 10 \"sagaropama\" years, 17 \"sagaropama\" years and 22 \"sagaropama\" years respectively. The maximum life span of hellish beings in the first to sixth hellish grounds is 1 \"sagaropama\" year, 3 \"sagaropama\" years, 7 \"sagaropama\" years, 10 \"sagaropama\" years, 17 \"sagaropama\" years and 22 \"sagaropama\" years respectively. They experience five types of sufferings: bodily pain, inauspicious \"leśyā \" or soul colouring and pariṇāma or physical transformation, from the nature and location of hells, pain inflicted on one other and torture inflicted by mansion-dwelling demi-gods.\n\nIn a dialogue between Sudharma Swami and Mahavira in the Jain text Sutrakritanga, Mahavira speaks of various reasons a soul may take birth in hells:\n\nAccording to Jain scripture, Tattvarthasutra, following are the causes for birth in hell:\n\n\nIn a dialogue between Sudharma and Mahavira the Jain text Sutrakritanga, Mahavira describes various tortures and sufferings in hells:\n\nIn Hell beings have a life span of innumerable years and are not easily killed even though they endure great torture. Even if they are killed they immediately take birth and are then repeatedly killed. This is described as thus:\n"}
{"id": "1728807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1728807", "title": "Noah Beery Jr.", "text": "Noah Beery Jr.\n\nNoah Lindsey Beery (August 10, 1913 – November 1, 1994), known professionally as Noah Beery Jr. or just Noah Beery, was an American actor specializing in warm, friendly character roles similar to the ones played by his paternal uncle, Wallace Beery, although Noah Beery Jr., unlike his more famous uncle, seldom broke away from playing supporting roles. His father, Noah Nicholas Beery (known professionally as Noah Beery or Noah Beery Sr.), enjoyed a similarly lengthy film career as a major supporting actor.\nBeery Jr. was best known for playing James Garner's character's father, \"Rocky\" in the NBC television series \"The Rockford Files\" (1974–80).\n\nBeery was born in New York City, New York, where his father was working as a stage actor. He was given his nickname \"Pidge\" by George M. Cohan's sister Josie.\n\nThe family moved to California in 1915 when his father began acting in motion pictures. After attending school in Los Angeles, they moved to a ranch in the San Fernando Valley, a style of living he would maintain for the rest of his life.\n\nAt the age of seven, he appeared with his father in \"The Mark of Zorro\" and like his father, who immediately began billing himself as \"Noah Beery Sr.\", he went on to become a respected character actor. His paternal uncle, Oscar-winning actor Wallace Beery, became the world's highest-paid actor by 1932, and while neither Beery nor his father ever approached that level, both had long and memorable film careers. The three acting Beerys physically closely resembled each other, but Noah Beery Jr. lacked the powerful voice his father and uncle possessed, which is ironic since both older Beerys made major careers in silent movies.\n\nBeery appeared in dozens of films, including a large early role as John Wayne's action partner in \"The Trail Beyond\" (1934; Wayne was 27 years old and Beery was 21), \"Only Angels Have Wings\" (1939) with Cary Grant, \"20 Mule Team\" (1940) with his uncle Wallace Beery, and \"Red River\" (1948), again with John Wayne.\n\nBeery's early television work included a weekly stint as a clown in \"Circus Boy\" with Micky Dolenz in the mid-1950s. In 1960, Beery replaced Burt Reynolds in the co-starring role of Bill Blake on \"Riverboat\", an NBC Western series starring Darren McGavin.\n\nHe appeared once on the religion anthology series \"Crossroads\" and on Walter Brennan's ABC sitcom, \"The Real McCoys\". He guest-starred three times on the long-running NBC Western series \"The Virginian\" in the 1960s, and twice during the same era on \"Wagon Train\". In 1965, he made two guest appearances on \"Perry Mason\" (murderer Tony Claus in \"The Case of the Golden Venom\", and defendant Lucas Tolliver in \"The Case of the Hasty Honeymooner\").\n\nBeery portrayed the buckskin-clad recurring sidekick character \"Buffalo Baker\" in the 17-episode 1967 television series \"Hondo\" starring Ralph Taeger, a role played by Ward Bond in the original 3D John Wayne film. But Beery is best known for his role as Joseph \"Rocky\" Rockford, the father of Jim Rockford, James Garner's character on \"The Rockford Files\" (1974–80).\n\nBeery died on November 1, 1994 in Tehachapi, California of a cerebral thrombosis, aged 81. He was interred in Forest Lawn Memorial Park.\n\nBeery Jr.'s first wife until 1966 was Maxine Jones, the only child of Western star Buck Jones. His second wife from 1968 until his death was Lisa Thorman. He had two daughters, Muffett and Melissa; a son, actor Bucklind Beery; and three step-children, Page, Sean, and Lorena Slattery.\n\nOn February 8, 1960, he received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his contributions to the television industry, located at 7021 Hollywood Blvd.\n\n"}
{"id": "69368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69368", "title": "Pidyon haben", "text": "Pidyon haben\n\nThe pidyon haben () or redemption of the first-born son is a mitzvah in Judaism whereby a Jewish firstborn son is \"redeemed\" by use of silver coins from his birth-state of sanctity, i.e. from being predestined by his firstborn status to serve as a priest.\n\nThe redemption is attained by giving five silver coins to a Kohen (a patrilineal descendant of the priestly family of Aaron).\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible the laws (see mitzvah) concerning the redemption of the first-born male are referred to in Exodus, Numbers and Leviticus:\n\nThe redemption price was set at 5 shekels for each of 273 surplus firstborn Israelites over and above the Levite totals (there was no separate census for firstborn Levites): The redemption has been seen as part of the \"natural evolution from animal sacrifice to a money substitute,\" and the concept of redemption money occurs also in Akkadian and Ugaritic (Canaan) texts, but not in the same function. Specific references to redemption of the first-born son in Ugaritic texts are disputed.\n\nThe Shulkhan Arukh states that when a Jewish woman gives birth to a firstborn male by natural means, then the child must be \"redeemed\". The father of the child must \"redeem\" the child from a known Kohen representing the original Temple priesthood, for the sum of five silver Shekels, or equivalent in country's currency (if it has silver currency of the correct weight). The procedure does not apply when the father is a Kohen or Levite, and does not normally apply when the mother is the daughter of one.\n\nThis redemption ceremony is performed when at least thirty days have passed since the child's birth. If the 31st day falls on Shabbat or a festival, the redemption is delayed, because any sort of business transaction is not allowed on those days. These days are counted from sunset to sunset, and the day of birth counts as the first day. While the redemption could be performed immediately after dark on the 31st night, it is usually done the next day; but if the 31st day is a fast day, it is done the previous night, so that it can be accompanied by a festive meal. It is also possible to hold the ceremony on the 30th day itself, if it will be impossible to perform it the next day, so long as at least one Synodic month (29 days, 12 hours, 44 minutes, and 2.9 seconds) has passed since the moment of birth.\n\nIf a woman gives birth to a second son naturally when the first son was born by Caesarean section, that child is not redeemed either. Additionally, a first-born male does not require redemption if his birth was preceded by an earlier miscarriage by the mother that occurred after the third month of pregnancy. However, if the miscarriage occurred during the first 40 days of pregnancy, redemption is required. If the previous miscarriage occurred after forty days, but before the fetus developed distinguishing characteristics, redemption of the first-born is still required, but the blessing said by the father is omitted.\n\nLevites, including \"Kohanim\", do not redeem their children through the Pidyon HaBen ceremony. The reason is that the Levites, as substitutes for the first-born, are pledged to minister and assist the \"kohanim\" in Divine service, and cannot be redeemed from this service obligation.\n\nThe children of daughters of Levites and Kohanim are not redeemed either. According to some authorities, however, a child whose mother is a \"Bat Kohen\" and whose father is a non-Jew requires a Pidyon HaBen ceremony.\n\nIn the traditional ceremony, the father brings the child to the Kohen and recites a formula, or responds to ritual questions, indicating that this is the Israelite mother's firstborn son and he has come to redeem him as commanded in the Torah. If the family is sephardic, the Kohen asks the mother if the child is indeed her firstborn son and if she did not miscarry in the past. The Kohen asks the father which he would rather have, the child or the five silver shekels which he must pay. The father states that he prefers the child to the money, then he recites a blessing and hands over five silver coins (or an equivalent amount of total silver). The Kohen holds the coins over the child and declares that the redemption price is received and accepted in place of the child. He then blesses the child. (Note: The Kohen would not receive the child if the father would refuse to redeem the boy. The function of the question is merely to endear the mitzvah to the father.)\n\nThe ceremony traditionally takes place before a minyan of 10 men. The child is sometimes presented on a silver tray, surrounded by jewelry lent for the occasion by women in attendance. This is to contrast with the Golden Calf, when gold and jewelry was used for a sinful purpose.\n\nThe event starts by beginning a festive meal, (unlike a Brit Mila or Wedding where the meal follows). If the family is sephardic, the event starts with the ceremony. Guests in some places are given cloves of garlic and cubes of sugar to take home: these strongly flavored foods can be used to flavor a large quantity of food which will in some sense extend the mitzvah of participation in the ceremony to all who eat them.\n\nIf a first-born son reaches bar mitzvah age without having been redeemed, he is responsible for arranging the mitzvah himself as soon as possible.\n\nContemporary religious authorities believe that the \"Shekel HaKodesh\" (Holy Shekel) of the Temple was larger and of purer silver content than the standard Shekel used for trade in ancient Israel. Halakha requires that the coins used have a requisite total amount of actual silver. There are varying opinions as to the correct amount of silver, they fall in between 100 grams and 117 grams. Coins which do not contain the requisite amount of silver do not result in a valid redemption.\n\nThe Israeli Mint has minted special edition 23.4 gram silver commemorative coins for the purpose, five of which would come to exactly 117 grams of silver. Pre-1936 American silver dollars weigh 26.73 grams of 90% silver content and hence contain 24.06g of pure silver, although such coins have become increasingly rare (modern U.S. coins contain no silver). Four American Silver Eagle coins, specially minted coins sold to collectors and investors which contain 31.1035 grams of 99.9% pure silver, or five of the above-mentioned specially minted silver coins of Israel are commonly used for Pidyon Ha-Ben in the United States. One may use silver bullion as well; it is not necessary for it to be a coin per se.\n\nThough the silver coins are the payment to the Kohen under torah law and are one of the twenty-four kohanic gifts, they are sometimes returned by the Kohen to the family as a gift for the child, although halachic authorities stipulate that, for the Pidyon to be valid, the choice of returning the coins as a gift rest upon the Kohen whereas pressuring the kohen to do so would render the redemption invalid.\n\nSome kohens officiating for the pidyon ceremony will present the father with a \"Pidyon HaBen Certificate\" of the pidyon transaction, the certificate will usually be framed for display and may serve as a receipt (and evidence) that the transaction was done according to halacha (i.e. the kohen was not pressured to return the coins), with the kohen and two witnesses (\"Eidim\") affixing their signatures at the time of the pidyon ceremony.\n\nSome Orthodox authorities, citing a passage in the Talmud (Kiddushin 8a) describing such an event, permit a male non-Kohen married to a Bat Kohen (daughter of a male Kohen) to accept Pidyon HaBen money on the Bat Kohen's behalf. The question of a Bat Kohen accepting Pidyon HaBen money on her own behalf is a matter of discussion in Modern Orthodox Judaism but is not currently done in practice following a lengthy responsa on the topic by Joseph Saul Nathanson.\n\nPidyon HaBen is a relatively rare ceremony. It is not performed if the firstborn is a girl, born by caesarian section, preceded by a miscarriage, or if either grandfather is a Kohen or a Levi.\n\nAccording to the traditional rabbinic interpretation, in the early part of the Bible, as recorded in the Book of Genesis, the duties of a priest fell upon the eldest son of each family. The first-born was to be dedicated to God in order to perform this task.\n\nFollowing the Israelite Exodus from Egypt, after the nation had sinned with the Golden Calf, the priesthood was taken away from the first-borns, and given to the tribe of Levites, specifically to the Kohanim, that is: High Priest Aaron, his children, and their descendants. At the same time it was instituted that the first born of each family should be \"redeemed\"; i.e. they would be 'bought back' from the dedication to God that would previously have been required of them. Levites were substituted for the first-born and wholly given to Divine service:\n\nThe first-born male of every clean animal was to be given up to the priest for sacrifice (Deuteronomy 12:6; Exodus 13:12, 34:20; Numbers 18:15–17). The first-born of an ass, if not redeemed, was to be put to death (Exodus 13:13; 34:20). There is no need for redemption by any other unclean animal, for the firstborn status only applies to clean animals (Leviticus 27:27. See Rashi there. Also see Rashi to Exodus 34:19).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36021099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36021099", "title": "Resistance, Politics, and the American Struggle for Independence, 1765–1775", "text": "Resistance, Politics, and the American Struggle for Independence, 1765–1775\n\nResistance, Politics, and the American Struggle for Independence, 1765–1775 is a book that examines the role of nonviolent struggle in the period before the American Revolution. Edited by Walter H. Conser, Jr., Ronald M. McCarthy, David J. Toscano and Gene Sharp, the book was published in the United States in 1986. It argues that the Stamp Act resistance and other campaigns from 1765 to 1775 were fundamental for shaping the outcome of the struggle for American independence, and were not merely a \"prelude\" to armed conflict.\n\nNonviolent resistance was at the heart of these campaigns, but key features of this nonviolence have been largely neglected by historians. To fill this perceived gap, the book provides a sustained narrative of the 1765–1775 resistance, followed by a set of interpretive essays aimed to provoke further discussion and inquiry. Six hypothetical explanations are offered for why the colonists shifted to military struggle, despite the considerable success of nonviolent struggle.\nReviews have appeared in several historical and legal journals.\n\n\"Resistance, Politics, and the American Struggle for Independence, 1765–1775\" (\"RPASI\"), claims that most historians of colonial America have treated the events of 1765–1775 as merely a \"prelude\" \nto the US Revolutionary War. Events such as the resistance to the Stamp Act and Townshend Acts are typically treated as \"not significant in themselves.\"\nThis book, however\n\nIn their preface, the editors state that their interest in the historical period covered in \"RPASI\" began in the 1970s, when they were studying nonviolent action as a pragmatic tool of civilian struggle. In their work, they\n\nIndeed, \"researchers often look throughout the length of a period for evidence of what they regard as its inevitable outcome... for example... for the roots of war... In the process, they... may ignore the contributions of alternative means to the outcome.\" An example is that \"Samuel Adams, whom many... associate with the tactics of violence, issued numerous statements prior to Lexington and Concord opposing the use of armed force\" (see quote at left).\n\nThe book project was originally conceived due to recognition by co-editor Gene Sharp, a leading scholar of nonviolent struggle, that the American colonists had \"employed the techniques of nonviolent resistance\" in their struggle against Great Britain. \n\nThe book was sponsored by Harvard University's Center for International Affairs, and by the Albert Einstein Institution, both led by Sharp. \nThe editors claim that the book \"if read carefully, is likely to spark scholarly controversy and argument,\" and that they \"believe that such debate can clarify the issues... and enhance the understanding of this critical decade in our history.\"\n\n\"Resistance, Politics, and the American Struggle for Independence, 1765-1775\" contains 14 chapters that are intended to \"relate integrally to one another and provide a complete narrative of the period [of 1765-1775].\" These chapters are listed in the table at right.\n\nAfter the first introductory chapter, the next 7 chapters contain the book's \"narrative section,\" which focuses on describing the struggles from 1765 to 1775 chronologically, using the \"terminology of the day,\" and only \"rarely [making] use of the term ‘nonviolent action.’\"\nThe book's final 6 chapters are analytical, offering interpretations of the decade's events. These chapters address questions raised in the narrative section, and also suggest areas for future research.\n\nBasic concepts are introduced in Chapter 1, which gives an overview of the three main resistance campaigns of 1765 to 1775 opposing the Stamp Act of 1765, the Townsend Acts of 1767, and the Coercive Acts of 1774. Nonviolent action is described as a technique that operates to bring about change through serving to \"manipulate the shared social, cultural, economic and political system in which the opposing parties engage in conflict.\" Citing Sharp's \"Politics of Nonviolent Action\", they divide methods of nonviolent action into the three categories of \"nonviolent protest and persuasion\", \"noncooperation\", and \"nonviolent intervention\". Nonviolent action succeeds by \"rendering the opponent's sources of power unusable, unworkable, and uncontrollable,\" through mechanisms that may include conversion, accommodation, or \"nonviolent coercion [that] occurs when an opponent is forced against his or her will to grant the actionists' demands.\"\n\nThe editors argue (Ch. 1) that previous scholarship has overlooked \"the degree to which the colonists used a kind of 'weapons system' that operated without force of arms or violence in trying to compel the British government to change its policies.\" Viewed from this angle, commercial resistance (nonimportation) is analyzed closely (Ch. 9). It is apparent that the colonists' skill in applying the methods of nonviolent struggle \"improved greatly over the decade,\" as did the \"intellectual underpinnings\" of their resistance (Chs. 10, 11).\n\nStill, at the close of the decade, the nonviolent movement was abandoned in favor of military resistance, and the editors discuss six alternative hypothetical explanations for why this shift occurred (Ch. 12; see table at right). The hypothetical explanations are not meant as mutually exclusive, but as \"avenues for fruitful inquiry.\" Indeed,\n\nJohn Adams (quoted above right), who lived through and helped lead the independence struggle, claimed that \"The revolution was... substantially effected before hostilities commenced.\" McCarthy (Ch. 14) argues that \"independence in many of the colonies had essentially been achieved prior to the commencement of military hostilities at Lexington and Concord.\"\nThe book concludes with 7 appendices that reproduce key historical materials (see table below right), as well as a 23-page index.\n\nReviews have appeared in \nthe \"Journal of Southern History\"\nthe \"Journal of American History\",\nand the \"Law and History Review\".\n\nIn the \"Journal of Southern History\", Mills wrote of \"RPASI\" that \"Although the work covers familiar ground, the approach is fresh and the treatment is stimulating. The interpretative theme is certain to provoke debate.\"\nHe added that \"The criticisms one might make of this study are cosmetic (e.g., the considerable variations in the sizes of several chapters) rather than substantive.\"\n\nIn the \"Journal of American History\", Ireland commended the historical essays as shedding light on important aspects of the American Revolution, stating that \"having them collected together in one place is useful.\" He was critical of most chapters by the editors as \"much less valuable,\" and came away feeling \"that I have missed the point, or that there is no point here of any great moment for a historian.\"\n\nIn \"Law and History Review\", Roeber wrote that \"RPASI\" \"includes stimulating essays by ten authors, four British,\" and\n\nBut in the American colonial frontier, \"military tactics were acknowledged by all to be more vicious than those employed in European conflicts.\" Thus, for Roeber, \"One comes away from this rich and stimulating series of essays with the disturbing sense that Americans had, at the very time of the Republic's founding, been swept up on a tide of violent resistance that fit with their colonial frontier experience.\"\n\nMills wrote that \"One can hope that the challenge to conduct more research into the period from 1774 to 1775 and the shift from nonviolent to violent action will be heeded.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7798225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7798225", "title": "Rex Bell", "text": "Rex Bell\n\nRex Bell (born George Francis Beldam; October 16, 1903 – July 4, 1962) was an American actor and politician. He was a Western movie star married to actress Clara Bow, and the 21st Lieutenant Governor of Nevada.\n\nBell made his film debut in \"Wild West Romance\" in 1928, and went on to act in a number of films, mostly Westerns, in which he had the lead role. He left the movie industry in 1936, although he had generally small roles in a few later films.\n\nIn 1931, Bell and his wife, actress Clara Bow, founded the Walking Box Ranch, at Searchlight, Nevada.\n\nHis final film appearance was a brief cameo as a cowboy in John Huston's film \"The Misfits\" (1961), which was shot on location in Nevada. He appeared in the film with actress Marilyn Monroe, who died a month after Bell in the summer of 1962.\n\nIn 1944, Bell ran for the United States House of Representatives on the Republican ticket against Democrat Berkeley Bunker. The \"Nevada State Journal\" commented on November 1: \"He has made friends where ever he appeared, but consensus is that the time is too short to overcome a handicap of not being so well known as his opponent\". The election was held November 7, and Bell got 19,096 votes while Bunker received 36,648.\n\nBell was the leader of the Nevada Republican Party and in 1948 was an alternate to the Republican National Convention. He was also active in the Nevada Chamber of Commerce and Boy Scouts.\n\nThe ties Bell forged during those years helped him win the Lieutenant Governor's office in 1954. That year, Charles H. Russell, the incumbent Republican governor, also won. In 1958, Democrat Grant Sawyer unseated Russell, but Bell won re-election as Lieutenant Governor (Bell and his Nevada state political position are mentioned in John D. MacDonald's 1960 novel \"The Only Girl in the Game\"). He died in office of a heart attack in 1962.\n\nBell was host of the program \"Cowboys and Injuns\" in 1950. It began on a station in Los Angeles and went on to be broadcast on ABC. The show focused on legends that were derived from folklore of cowboys and Native Americans in the United States. \n\nBell operated Rexco, Incorporated, which manufactured and distributed novelty gift items. He and his brother also had two clothing stores in Nevada.\n\nBell was born in Chicago, and married actress Clara Bow in 1931. They had two sons, Tony Beldam (1934–2011), who changed his name to Rex Anthony Bell Jr., and George Beldam Jr. (born 1938). Rex Bell Jr. appeared in two Western films—\"Stage to Thunder Rock\" (1964), in the role of \"Shotgun Rex\", and \"Young Fury\" (1965), and later served as district attorney of Clark County from 1987 to 1995.\n\nThe Rex Bell Elementary School in Las Vegas was named in honor of Bell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9005414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9005414", "title": "Sensemaking", "text": "Sensemaking\n\nSensemaking is the process by which people give meaning to their collective experiences. It is often formally defined as \"the ongoing retrospective development of plausible images that rationalize what people are doing\" (Weick, Sutcliffe, & Obstfeld, 2005, p. 409). The concept was introduced to organizational studies by Karl E. Weick in the 1970s and has affected both theory and practice. The concept was intended to encourage a shift away from the traditional focus of organization theorists on decision-making and towards the processes that constitute the meaning of the decisions that are enacted in behavior.\n\nIn 1966, Daniel Katz and Robert L. Kahn published their highly influential book \"The Social Psychology of Organizations\" (Katz & Kahn, 1966). In 1969, Karl Weick played on this title in his seminal \"The Social Psychology of Organizing\", shifting the focus from organizations as entities to organiz\"ing\" as an activity. It was especially the second edition, published ten years later (Weick, 1979) that established Weick's approach in organization studies.\n\nWeick identified seven properties of sensemaking (Weick, 1995):\n\n\nEach of these seven aspects interact and intertwine as individuals interpret events. Their interpretations become evident through narratives – written and spoken – which convey the sense they have made of events (Currie & Brown, 2003), as well as through diagrammatic reasoning and associated material practices (Huff, 1990; Stigliani & Ravasi, 2012).\n\nThe rise of the sensemaking perspective marks a shift of focus in organization studies from how decisions shape organizations to how meaning drives organizing (Weick, 1993). The aim was to focus attention on the largely cognitive activity of framing experienced situations as meaningful. It is a collaborative process of creating shared awareness and understanding out of different individuals' perspectives and varied interests.\n\nSensemaking scholars are less interested in the intricacies of planning than in the details of action (Weick, 1995, p. 55).\n\nThe sensemaking approach is often used to provide insight into factors that surface as organizations address either uncertain or ambiguous situations (Weick 1988, 1993; Weick et al., 2005). Beginning in the 1980s with an influential re-analysis of the Bhopal disaster, Weick's name has come to be associated with the study of the situated sensemaking that influences the outcomes of disasters (Weick 1993).\n\nA 2014 review of the literature on sensemaking in organizations identified a dozen different categories of sensemaking and a half-dozen sensemaking related concepts (Maitlis & Christianson, 2014). The categories of sensemaking included: constituent-minded, cultural, ecological, environmental, future-oriented, intercultural, interpersonal, market, political, prosocial, prospective, and resourceful. The sensemaking-related concepts included: sensebreaking, sensedemanding, sense-exchanging, sensegiving, sensehiding, and sense specification.\n\nSensemaking is central to the conceptual framework for military network-centric operations (NCO) espoused by the United States Department of Defense (Garstka and Alberts, 2004). In a joint/coalition military environment, sensemaking is complicated by numerous technical, social, organizational, cultural, and operational factors. A central hypothesis of NCO is that the quality of shared sensemaking and collaboration will be better in a \"robustly networked\" force than in a platform-centric force, empowering people to make better decisions. According to NCO theory, there is a mutually-reinforcing relationship among and between individual sensemaking, shared sensemaking, and collaboration.\n\nIn defense applications, sensemaking theorists have primarily focused on how shared awareness and understanding are developed within command and control organizations at the operational level. At the tactical level, individuals monitor and assess their immediate physical environment in order to predict where different elements will be in the next moment. At the operational level, where the situation is far broader, more complex and more uncertain, and evolves over hours and days, the organization must collectively make sense of enemy dispositions, intentions and capabilities, as well as anticipate the (often unintended) effects of own-force actions on a complex system of systems.\n\nSensemaking has been studied in the patient safety literature (Battles, et al. 2006). It has been used as a conceptual framework for identifying and detecting high risk patient situations. For example, Rhodes, et al. (2015) examined sensemaking and the co-production of safety of primary medical care patients.\n\n"}
{"id": "12728954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12728954", "title": "The Network (The Hardy Boys)", "text": "The Network (The Hardy Boys)\n\nThe Network is an organization in The Hardy Boys Casefiles book series. \n\nThe Network is a top-secret government agency in the same branch as the CIA and FBI, but even to most people in those organizations, The Network is unknown. After the events of Casefiles #6 \"The Crowning Terror\" and Ultra-Thriller #2 \"The Alien Factor\", The Network took over control of everything that Espionage Resources (another top-secret government agency) ran, due to high corruption in that agency. \n\nFrank and Joe Hardy (the Hardy boys of the title) first found out about The Network (in \"Dead on Target\") when they met one of the agency’s best agents, the Gray Man. At the time the Hardys were investigating a car bombing that had killed Joe’s girlfriend, Iola Morton. The Gray Man offered to help find the person who planted the bomb, the Hardys accepted his offer and with his help Frank and Joe learned that it was not a person that planted the bomb, but The Network’s worst enemy - a worldwide group of terrorist group that calls themselves The Assassins. Since then the Hardys have worked with the Network on many cases.\n"}
{"id": "47901201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47901201", "title": "Thermal trauma", "text": "Thermal trauma\n\nThermal trauma is any burn-related injury that can potentially lead to serious outcomes. There are various causes of thermal trauma, including fire, radiant heat, radiation, chemical, or electrical contact, that can affect a person in many ways based on factors from anatomical and physiological factors. Depending on the severity of the burns, quick management and transport to an appropriate burn facility may be necessary to prevent loss of life. Various classification scales exist for use with thermal trauma to determine the severity of the burns, which is used to determine the resources used and for statistical collection. The initial assessment is critical in determining the extent of injuries and what will be needed to manage an injury, and treating immediate life threats.\n\nBurn injuries are generally classified by either severity, the location of damage, or a combination of both.\n\nVarious scales exist to provide a quantifiable metric to measure the severity of burn-related injuries. The value can be used for triaging a patient or for statistical analysis. Burn injury scales measure damage to anatomical parts, physiological values (blood pressure etc.), comorbidities or a combination of those.\n"}
