{"id": "35051796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35051796", "title": "4T – Vietnam Youth Education Support Center", "text": "4T – Vietnam Youth Education Support Center\n\n4T Center - Vietnam Youth Education Support Center is a social organization in Hanoi, Vietnam, based on non-profit operation with the mission of education support and comprehensive development for Vietnamese Youth. Its abbreviation name is 4T Center which comes from these four words in Vietnamese: \"Tam\" (Heart), \"Tri\" (Mind), \"Tai\" (Talent) and \"Tay\" (Hand), representing important qualities of a young person.\n\n4T Center initiated as a group of volunteers gathering students from different universities in Hannoi. The idea of establishing a Center for Vietnamese youth also came from a young Vietnamese, Mr. Nguyen Tung Lam, Deputy Director of 4T Center. After two years of operating as a social entrepreneur, 4T Center was officially founded on 23 September 2011 as a social organization under its Parent Organization \"Vietnam Association for Promoting Education\". Since its establishment, 4T has established connection with other organizations in Vietnam and the World. At the end of 2011, 4T became the first partner organization of 4-H and took part in the 2nd International 4-H Youth Winter Camp in December 2011.\n\nKid-camp holds non- formal education activities for kids from 8-18 providing chance of learning by doing through playing activities to learn and exchange essential skills and other moral values. The fund is from parents’ participation fee. The program is coordinated by 4T Center with the participation of volunteers in 4Tclubs. Kid-camps include weekend camps and summer camps in variety of topic such as Sport Camp, International Camp, Skill Camp, Career Training Camp and Countryside Camp.\n\nYouth clubs is an operating model for youth to join voluntarily, lead the clubs, expand their members and launch community service to practice democracy and exchange essential skills like teamwork or leadership. Clubs operate based on membership fee and other self-raising fund activities. Youth expand their members and launch community service programs involving in training, environmental conservation, camping, events or other extracurricular activities for kids.\n\nYouth projects focus on emerging problems of youth and get direct involvement of youth in solving these problems. Forms of training, workshops and non-formal educational activities are launched to provide necessary knowledge and skills for youth to actively participate in the projects. 4T staffs are key project officers to coordinate clubs’ network to implement project. Expense is from business sponsors, local or international funds and other self-funding activities.\n\nYouth events are prominent events towards youth to attract concern of the society on youth development such as festival, workshop, camps in variety of topics. In 2011, an event was held by 4T Center called \"Hello Summer Camp\". This event attracts concerns of journalists and participation of numerous parents and children.\n\nResponsible parents network sets up a parental network to enhance their responsibilities and concerns about their children’s extracurricular activities, encouraging their support in activities’ organizing and sponsor for comprehensive development of their children.\n\nThe project, aiming at providing a better education for children in mountainous areas, has set up a website named truonghocvungcao or \"mountainous schools\". Arose from the reality that educational development in these areas has to cope with a lot of difficulties such as high dropout rate of school students, lack of teaching materials and studying equipment as well as poor education infrastructure, 4T Center proposed a project on supporting Education in remote Areas. A website has been established to provide information about educational condition of schools in these areas of Hoa Binh and Son La province. The information needed for the website has been collected and compiled by groups of volunteers from 4T’s youth network. The website is an information channel to update news about obstacles in educational conditions of mountainous students as well as raise funds and supports from sponsors, parents, businesses and the whole community for a better future of poor students.\n\nThe project is the cooperation among 4T Center, Towards Transparency Organization and Transparency International to strengthen Youth capacity in fighting corruption. 4T Center and its partner organization realized that it is important to promote integrity as a core personal value among youth. Integrity education program will be introduced to students in selected secondary schools in Hanoi through extra-curriculum lessons. Youth in 4T clubs network will be the facilitators of integrity lessons for their junior fellows. As integrity peer trainers, the youth are expected to be good examples of integrity for their peers and younger fellows to follow. Apart from non-formal integrity educational program in schools, youth will be provided chances to expand their understanding about anti-corruption through a competition called \"Flat Connection\" and an integrity festival. The project started from October 2011 and will end in June 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10499650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10499650", "title": "Academic Competition for Excellence", "text": "Academic Competition for Excellence\n\nAcademic Competition for Excellence (often shortened to ACE) is a format of high school quizbowl played in the mid-Atlantic, especially in the Commonwealth of Virginia. There are several leagues in West Virginia, Virginia, and North Carolina, although many of the Virginia leagues have become feeders for Virginia High School League Scholastic Bowl competition, or play the VHSL format instead of the ACE format. (The Scholastic Bowl format allows districts to keep playing their old formats during the regular season.) ACE teams also exist throughout Arkansas, though the game follows a slightly different format.\n\nMost quizbowl formats feature teams of three to five players from each school, competing on questions that span the realm on human knowledge. There are rarely pre-assigned reading lists, or limitations on subject matter. Informal limits, based on what students might reasonably be taught, or have learned in outside reading, do exist, and some competitions will restrict the amount of popular culture in each match. \n\nThe ACE format requires each school to field five teams of four players each. The five teams compete in four subject areas -- Mathematics, Science, Social Studies, and English -- and a fifth team plays in an All-Around competition. No student can play on two subject-area teams, although he/she can play on a subject-area team and the All-Around team. The wide variety of students (a school needs at least 16 players to compete) that can play in the ACE format makes it popular with administrators. An ACE competition usually has two schools, and consists of the five teams from each school competing one at a time. \n\nThe subject-area competitions usually have questions from subject areas that are determined before the season begins. For Math, Science, and Social Studies this is usually fairly open-ended: \n\nEnglish questions are usually written from a pre-assigned reading list. The list usually consists of a number of novels, short stories, plays, and poems, and questions are about details from those works. \n\nAll-Around questions are from the four subject areas (again, using the reading list for English questions.) Usually, fine arts, philosophy, religion, and current events questions are included in the All-Around competition, but popular culture and sports are specifically excluded. (This appeals to some administrators.)\n\nACE leagues began appearing in Virginia during the early and mid-1980s. The format proved popular and was widely copied by administrators across Virginia. Some leagues mirrored VHSL districts, but some leagues were more geographic in scope. During the late 1990s, some of the Virginia leagues switched to the VHSL format, and others changed their competition dates to the fall and began sending their champions to VHSL regional competition. Most of Western Virginia still refers to their Scholastic Bowl team as their \"ACE team.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8107834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8107834", "title": "Academic grading in Israel", "text": "Academic grading in Israel\n\nAcademic grading in Israel refers to the main grading scale used in Israeli schools. The scale, from 0 to 100, is employed at virtually all levels of education in Israel, from elementary school, through high school and undergraduate academic studies, to graduate university degrees.\n\nThe 100-point grading scale sometimes used is as follows:\nIn many schools and universities, percentage-based grading is directly used without such partitions. This grading scheme is similar to the one used in India. It has the advantages of being precise and having a simple method of calculating GPA (a simple/weighted average of grades).\n\nIn secondary school (years 7–12), any grade below 55 is considered a failing grade. In the Bagrut examinations, any grade below 55 equals failure. In most universities and colleges, any grade below 60 is considered as failure.\n\nIn Israeli academic institutions, honors are usually bestowed upon graduates with 88 or better, with \"summa cum laude\" associated with a grade of 95 or higher, although some institutions have different practices.\n\nThe Israeli education system rarely employs curved grading at any stage (including at the academic level). To compensate for this, most academic institutions require that candidates undergo the Psychometric Entrance Test, which in Israel provides examinees with an overall score of 200–800, the average being 535.\n\nAlthough the vast majority of Israeli academic institutions refrain from grading on a curve, the situation is different with law schools; only certain law faculties do not use curved grading. In most Israeli universities' and colleges' law faculties, the average grade is \"normalized\" to around 79 (i.e., 79/100 or C+ on a lettered GPA scale).\n\nDifferent Institutes vary in their grading systems. \"Insufficient\" usually refers to \"54\" although, in some Institutes it might be lower or higher (up to even 64 for Medical School).\n\n"}
{"id": "3853971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3853971", "title": "Academic procession", "text": "Academic procession\n\nAn academic procession is a traditional ceremony in which university dignitaries march together wearing traditional academic dress. An academic procession forms a usual part of college and university graduation exercises. At many U.S. universities, the colors and styles of regalia are determined by a uniform dress code established in 1895.\n\nThe installation of a university president is usually accompanied by a much more elaborate academic procession, involving visiting celebrants from other universities. In such processions, the order of appearance is governed by the institution's date of founding, oldest first. For example, when Eisenhower was installed at Columbia in 1948:\n...dignitaries from the world's oldest universities—Bologna, Oxford, Paris, Cambridge, and Florence—led the procession, and representatives from over three hundred American colleges and universities followed, including Harvard's James Conant, Yale's Charles Seymour, Pennsylvania's Harold Stassen, and Princeton's Harold Dodds, and some two hundred other presidents.\nThe order of academic processions explains in part why universities have a tendency to use strained rationales to claim traditional dates of founding that are as early as possible. For example, the University of Pennsylvania's George E. Thomas writes of a\n...debate over the founding date of the University that began in 1896 when The Alumni Register promoted the story that the University’s origins lay in George Whitefield’s Charity School that was ostensibly founded in 1740. Because this school was to be located in the church building later acquired by the board founded by Benjamin Franklin in 1749 to house his new Academy, it could be claimed as the beginning of the University... this mergers-and-acquisitions model of institutional history had the desired effect of placing Penn ahead of Princeton in academic processions that in turn represented, in highly schematized form, the pecking order of American higher education. (The year before, in 1895, elite universities banded together to establish a national system of academic regalia that asserted an age- and class-based hierarchy and was most obviously expressed by placement in academic processions.)\n\n"}
{"id": "46335622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46335622", "title": "African School of Economics", "text": "African School of Economics\n\nThe African School of Economics (ASE) is a private university headquartered in Abomey-Calavi (near Cotonou), Republic of Benin.\n\nIt is the expansion of the Institute for Empirical Research in Political Economy (IERPE, IREEP in French), founded in 2004, into a full-fledged pan-African university. Faculty members come from top universities in the US, Canada and Europe. Currently (2016) it offers four graduate programs at the Masters level: Master in Mathematics, Economics and Statistics (MMES), Master in Business Administration (MBA), Master in Public Administration (MPA) and Master in Development Economics (MDE). ASE also offers a PhD program in Economics and two Certificate Programs, Impact Evaluation and Quantitative Finance.\n\nThe school is a continuation of the success of the Institute of Empirical Research in Political Economy (IERPE) founded by Leonard Wantchekon in 2004 in Cotonou, Benin. A nonprofit training and research initiative in Political Economy and Applied Statistics, IERPE provides expertise in public policy and trains executives for the public and private sector in West Africa. The opening ceremony took place on August 29, 2014.\n\nSince its inception, the Institute expanded its activities to include a successful Masters of Public Economics and Applied Statistics (MEPSA). The MEPSA has had 74 African graduates, all whom are in high demand in the West African region: more than 75% of the graduates of the classes of 2006-2009 are employed in research centers throughout West Africa, in the World Bank and in different governments. The MEPSA program is accredited by the Ministry of Education in Benin.\n\nASE aims to meet the urgent need for an academic institution capable of generating the necessary human capital in Africa. Although the region has seen significant improvements in primary and secondary education in the past few decades there is still a pressing need for advanced education centers. Through its PhD programs, ASE hopes to provide the missing African voice in many Africa-related academic debates. Furthermore, through the Master in Business Administration (MBA), Master in Public Administration (MPA), Executive MBA and MPA (EMBA and EMPA), Master in Mathematics, Economics and Statistics (MMES), and Master in Development Studies (MDS) programs, ASE aims to provide the technical capacity that will enable more Africans to be hired into top management positions in development agencies and multinational corporations operating on the continent. This should foster sustainable hiring practices that will retain talent and experience in Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52935985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52935985", "title": "Amy Morris Bradley", "text": "Amy Morris Bradley\n\nAmy Morris Bradley (September 12, 1823 – January 15, 1904) was an American educator from the U.S. state of Maine. She established the first English-language school in Central America. She also spent over 30 years establishing free schools in Wilmington, North Carolina.\n\nShe was born September 12, 1823, in East Vassalboro, Maine. She was a granddaughter of Asa Bradley, a soldier of the American Revolution.\n\nWhen she was six years old, her mother died, leaving a large family of children, Amy being the youngest.\n\nIn 1840, she began to teach in country schools, and four years later was appointed principal of one of the grammar schools in Gardiner, Maine. In 1846, she became assistant teacher in the Winthrop grammar school of Charlestown, Massachusetts, and afterward in the Putnam Grammar School, East Cambridge, Massachusetts. She taught until the autumn of 1849, when, hampered by pneumonia, she was compelled to seek a milder climate. The winter of 1850-51 was passed in Charleston, South Carolina at the home of a brother, but with little benefit; and during the two years following, she was an invalid at her old home in Maine.\n\nShe was advised by her physician to live somewhere that was free from frost, in 1853, she went to San Jose, Costa Rica, where her health improved. In three months after her arrival, she established the first English school in Central America. She quickly mastered the Spanish language, and her pupils rapidly acquired the English. For nearly four years, she continued her educational work in San Jose.\n\nIn the summer of 1857, Bradley returned to her early home in East Vassalboro, where her father died in January, 1858. The knowledge of Spanish acquired by Bradley in Costa Rica led the New England Glass Company, of East Cambridge to seek her services in translating letters.\n\nShe was in Cambridge in 1861, when the first gun was fired at Fort Sumter. After the First Battle of Bull Run, she offered her services to the government as an army nurse. On 1 September 1861, she began working at the hospital of the Third Maine Regiment, encamped near Alexandria, Virginia. She was transferred to the Fifth Maine Regiment, and was soon appointed matron of the Seventeenth Brigade Hospital, General Slocum's Brigade, of which she had charge during the winter. In the spring of 1862, she responded to a call from the Relief Department of the United States Sanitary Commission, and went with Dorothea Dix to Fort Monroe. She was assigned to service on the transport boats, and labored throughout the Peninsula Campaign. In December, 1862, she was sent to Convalescent Camp, Alexandria, and remained in charge of the Relief Department until the close of the American Civil War.\n\nIn 1866, at the request of the Soldiers' Memorial Society, of Boston, Massachusetts, and under the auspices of the American Unitarian Association, she went to Wilmington, North Carolina, as a teacher of poor white children. Her position at first was a trying one, for she was a stranger and a northerner. She opened her school on 9 January 1867, with three children, in a humble building. Within a week, 67 pupils were enrolled, and soon two additional teachers were engaged by her, and, as the number of pupils rapidly increased, new schools were opened, the \"Hemenway,\" the \"Pioneer\" and the \"Normal,\" and the corps of teachers increased accordingly. Within a few months, citizens co-operated with the trustees of the Peabody Fund and other benefactors in erecting the needed buildings and forwarding the work started by Bradley. On 13 November 1871, the cornerstone of the Tileston Normal School was laid, and it was opened in October, 1872. This building was the gift of Mary Tileston Hemenway, who had been interested in Bradley's work from its beginning, and whose appreciation of its importance found expression in the annual contribution of US$5,000 toward the support of the Tileston Normal School, from its opening in 1872 to its close in 1891. Failing health led Miss Bradley to resign her position in 1891. In all, Bradley spent over 30 years establishing free schools in Wilmington.\n\nA collection of Bradley's manuscripts, papers, and diaries reside at the Duke University Library in Durham, North Carolina.\nBradley's religious affiliation was an Unitarian. She died in January 1904. She is buried at Oakdale Cemetery in Wilmington, North Carolina.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7081877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7081877", "title": "Anton Boisen", "text": "Anton Boisen\n\nAnton Theophilus Boisen (29 October 1876 – 1 October 1965) was an American chaplain. He was a leading figure in the hospital chaplaincy and clinical pastoral education movements.\n\nBorn in Bloomington, Indiana, Boisen was the son of Hermann Balthsar Boisen and Elisabeth Louisa (Louise) Wylie. Both his father and his maternal grandfather, Theophilus Adam Wylie from whom his middle name stemmed, were professors at Indiana University. When his father died in 1884, his family moved into Theophilus Wylie’s home .\n\nBoisen graduated from Indiana University in 1897 and taught French and German, first in high school then later as a tutor at the university. During this period he suffered the first of several major psychotic episodes he would experience. Recovering from it, Boisen went on to study forestry and graduate from the Yale University School of Forestry in 1905. He went on to work for the U.S. Forest Service for several years before suffering a second psychotic episode.\n\nHe entered the Union Theological Seminary in the City of New York and graduated in 1911. Boisen moved from the Presbyterian to the Congregational Church, and worked for the next ten years in rural church survey work, in pastorates in both Kansas and Maine. For two years during World War I, Boisen worked with the YMCA in Europe. In 1917, Boisen returned from Europe and experienced another breakdown, but recovered to accept an offer to join the Interchurch World Movement. As part of that work, he moved to North Dakota to conduct a rural survey.\n\nWhen the Interchurch World Movement collapsed in 1920, Boisen again fell victim to psychosis, and his family had him hospitalized at Westboro State Hospital, where it took him fifteen months to recover. While at Westboro, Boisen experienced a religious calling to work to bring religion and medicine closer together.\n\nAfter his release, Boisen began studies in the psychology of religion at Andover Theological Seminary where he remained from 1922 to 1924 working especially with the physician and ethicist Richard Cabot. In 1924 William Bryan of the Worcester State Hospital invited Boisen to become a hospital chaplain, and the following year he began a program at the hospital for the clinical training of theological students.\n\nAlso during this period, Boisen began a five-year stint lecturing each fall quarter to students in the social ethics department of Chicago Theological Seminary. Boisen's ideas about mental illness began to mature during this period. He explored the concept that mental illness represents a crisis brought about by the failure to grow into higher social loyalties, including loyalty to God. In this way mental illness was purposive, he believed, and could be cured by the power of religion.\n\nIn 1930 he joined with others in forming the Council for the Clinical Training of Theological Students, which would expose students for extended periods to people suffering illness and crisis, mainly in mental hospitals. In the same year, however, the death of his mother helped to precipitate still another brief period of mental illness. This breakdown caused Cabot to withdraw his support for Boisen as chaplain at Worcester State Hospital and Boisen influence in the Council to wane.\n\nIn 1932 Boisen became chaplain at Elgin State Hospital near Chicago to be closer to Chicago Theological Seminary and to Alice Batchelder, a love interest who worked in Chicago. While there Boisen organized a Chicago Council for the Clinical Training of Theological Students, functioning effectively until he learned in 1935 Alice Batchelder was dying of cancer. The discovery resulted in his brief hospitalization in Baltimore, Maryland, but in December 1935 he returned to his chaplaincy post at Elgin where he remained as chaplain until 1954, then chaplain emeritus at Elgin until his death.\n\nBoisen believed that some mental illnesses, such as schizophrenia, could be interpreted as one's attempts to solve \"problems of the soul\". Later, he explored the concept that mental illness represents a crisis brought about by the failure to grow into higher social loyalties, including loyalty to God. In this way mental illness was purposive, he believed, and could be cured by the power of religion.\n\nIn 1936 he published his ideas about religion and mental health in \"Exploration of the Inner World\", which he dedicated to Batchelder. The book was praised by the \"New York Times Review of Books\" as being a \"significant contribution to the religious literature field.\" Boisen continued to expound his religious views in additional articles and books, notably \"Religion in Crisis and Custom\" (1955) and \"Out of the Depths\" (1960), his autobiography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22680780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22680780", "title": "Buchtel College of Arts and Sciences", "text": "Buchtel College of Arts and Sciences\n\nThe Buchtel College of Arts and Sciences is the largest college of the University of Akron, located in Akron, Ohio.\n\nThe Buchtel College of Arts and Sciences traces its origins back to 1870 with Buchtel College, which was the progenitor to the University of Akron. It is named after John R. Buchtel.\n\nThe college offers more than 30 undergraduate majors, nearly 20 master's degrees, and 8 doctoral programs.\n\nAlso within the Buchtel College of Arts and Sciences is the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics, which is directed by John C. Green.\n\n"}
{"id": "21776213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21776213", "title": "Chinese university ranking (Wu Shulian)", "text": "Chinese university ranking (Wu Shulian)\n\nThe \"Chinese university ranking\" is a ranking of universities in Mainland China compiled by Wu Shulian, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Management Science (unconfirmed). He has been studying \"Chinese University Ranking\" since 1991 and leader of \"Chinese University Ranking Research Group\".\n\nThe Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Chinese University Alumni Association, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, and many other academic organizations constantly ranks universities in mainland China and in the World in many aspects/fields, including the general ranking, rankings of engineering, natural sciences, medicine, social sciences, law, philosophy, management, etc. This college ranking has met with controversies in China, and counters criticisms that its biased metrics debase many highly respected universities but inflate many second-tier universities.\n\nThe leader of this university ranking program is Wu Shulian, who's claimed to be a researcher at the Academy (Guangdong branch). However, his position has not been confirmed by the Chinese Academy of Management Science. There are not much information about the ranking team. Some sources claim that the team leader Wu Shulian was born in Shandong, studied electronic engineering at Tsinghua University and got master's degree of management engineering from Zhejiang University.\n\nThe methodology of this ranking is quite similar to the Academic Ranking of World Universities. As any university ranking, this ranking has also continuously suffered with numerous criticisms.\n\nThe annual ranking has been continuously released since 1996. Top 100 universities out of 2,236 colleges and universities (general/integrated ranking) since 2002 are as below, as well as 1996 ranking.\n\nNotes:\n\nIn 2009, the leader of this university ranking program, Mr. Wu Shulian, was reported to have been involved in a fee-for-ranking scandal, involving universities being able to pay money to the ranking program in order to boost their rankings. Consequently, the creditability of his ranking came under criticism.\n\nThe Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China strongly opposes all university rankings, especially those based on payment of “fees”, a ministry spokeswoman Xu Mei said. The sharp comments came in response to a recent story that Chengdu University of Technology (CDUT) had possibly paid to climb the “China university rankings” table. The university had invited “program director” Wu Shulian to lecture in 2004 and in 2006, a source at the university told the Beijing-based People's Daily. After Wu had received his 50,000 yuan “remittance”, the school's ranking rose from 116 in 2004 to 92 in 2007. It fell to 103 in 2009, \"People's Daily\" reported.\n\nA study (referred as the study within this paragraph) by anonymous group from Chinese University of Science and Technology showed that California Institute of Technology would rank out of this Chinese university ranking if calculated by Wu Shulian's ranking standard, which was considered ridiculous. This widespread controversy has greatly affected the credit of this ranking program and has been reported by many medias. Mr. Wu Shuliang officially responded with published paper in Higher Education Development and Evaluation, addressing several important mistakes made by the study. The mistakes include failure to correctly use Mr. Wu Shuliang's ranking method, failure to show the calculation process and thus cannot be repeated, inappropriate publishing classified data by Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China, inappropriate use of unavailable/non-equivalent indices/scores for California Institute of Technology which constitutes 78.79% of total indices/scores. Mr. Wu Shuliang's paper shows California Institute of Technology clearly ranks much higher than any of Chinese Universities using his published method with proper treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "11158619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11158619", "title": "Christopher Cherniak", "text": "Christopher Cherniak\n\nChristopher Cherniak is an American neuroscientist, a member of the University of Maryland Philosophy Department. Cherniak’s research trajectory started in theory of knowledge and led into computational neuroanatomy and genomics. The underlying linkage between the areas concerns models of the agent: The work began with more realistic, bounded-resource models of rationality. From this epistemology in turn stemmed a research program concerning optimal-wiring models of global brain and genome anatomy, a structuralist approach.\n\nCherniak’s monograph \"Minimal Rationality\" states that \n\nThis is part of the philosophical significance of computational complexity. \n\nThis research program proceeds from a holistic rather than compartmentalized perspective, where philosophy and science are distinct but inextricably interconnected. For instance, the classical paradoxes of semantics (e.g., the Liar Paradox) and set theory (e.g., Russell's Paradox) can be reexamined not as pathology, but instead as signs of use of “quick and dirty heuristics” - that is, speed-reliability tradeoffs of correctness for feasibility. Three disparate fields thereby converge: (a) computational complexity theory, (b) empirical psychology of quick and dirty heuristics, (c) philosophical theory of bounded-resource rationality. In this way, the bounded rationality models serve as a foundation of current “behavioral economics”.\n\nIn addition, it is perhaps natural to extend the bounded-resource approach along these lines down from rationality to the brainwiring hardware level. In particular, longrange connectivity is a critically constrained neural resource, with strong evolutionary pressure to employ efficiently. Connection minimization seems a first law of brain tractography, an organizing principle driving neuroanatomy.\n\nThe Cherniak laboratory has therefore been gauging how well wiring-optimization ideas from computer microchip design apply to brain structure. \"Save wire\" turns out to be a strongly predictive model. Wiring minimization can be detected at multiple levels (e.g., placement of the entire brain, layout of its ganglia and/or cortex areas, subcellular architecture of dendrite arbors, etc.). Much of this biological structure seems to arise \"for free, directly from physics\".\n\nA key specific wiring problem is component placement optimization: Given a set of interconnected components, what are the positionings of the components that minimize total connection costs (e.g., wirelength)? This concept seems to account quite precisely for aspects of neuroanatomy at multiple hierarchical levels. For instance, the nervous system of the roundworm \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" includes eleven ganglionic components, which have 11! (~40,000,000) alternative possible anteroposterior orderings. In fact, the actual here is the ideal, in that the actual layout turns out to require the minimum total wirelength, a predictive success story. However, such problems are NP-complete; exact solutions generally appear to entail bruteforce searches, with exponentially exploding costs. Despite local minimum traps, this neuroanatomy optimization can be approximated well by “mesh of springs” energy-minimization mechanisms. (Cf. discussion below of the “genomic bottleneck”.)\n\nA corresponding approach can be applied to placement of interconnected functional areas of cerebral cortex. A first strategy is to use a simpler connection cost measure, conformance of a cortex layout to a wire-saving Adjacency Heuristic: If components are connected, then they are placed adjacent to each other. Sampling of all possible layouts is still required to verify the best ones. For 17 core visual areas of macaque cortex, the actual layout of this subsystem ranks in the top 10 layouts best minimizing their adjacency costing. Similar high optimality rankings also hold for the core set of visual areas of cat cortex, and also for rat olfactory cortex and amygdala.\n\nIn addition, a “Size Law” appears to apply to systems with such local-global tradeoffs: If a complete system is in fact perfectly optimized, then the smaller the subset of it evaluated by itself, the poorer the optimization tends to appear. (This is a generalization of a related perspective-dependent idea seen in theology, to account for the problem of evil – of apparent imperfections in the Universe with an omnipotent, benevolent deity.) The Size Law applies well to each of the above cortex systems, as well as elsewhere (e.g., for microchip design).\n\nWith such a network optimization framework, these “Save wire” results have been extended and replicated for the complete living human cerebrum via fMRI, another predictive success.\n\nNeuron dendrite and axon arbors also appear significantly to approximate minimum-cost Steiner trees. These structures are derivable via fluid dynamics. This seems to constitute some of the most complex biostructure presently obtainable from simple (non-DNA) physical processes. Such a “Physics suffices” account of biological morphogenesis constitutes a “Nongenomic Nativism”. One rationale for the pre-biotic pervading the biotic in this way is to cope with the “genomic bottleneck”: Like other organism systems, the genome has limited capacities. So the more neuroanatomy “for free, directly from physics”, the less the genome information-carrying load.\n\nAnother question arises: Neural wiring minimization is of course valuable, but why should it seem to have such a high priority – sometimes apparently near-maximal? The significance of ultra-fine neural optimization remains an open question.\n\nAn additional issue concerns how the intentional level of mind meshes with the hardware level of brain. Prima facie, that relationship appears in tension: In some aspects, the brainwiring appears virtually perfectly optimized, yet the rationality has layers of impossibility between it and perfection. Perhaps this is another manifestation of irreducibility of the mental – the well-known poor fit of the two domains with each other.\n\nA next chapter of this research program: Concepts from the theory of computation can be applied to understand the structure and function of organisms' DNA. The Crick-Watson double-helix model emerged at the same place and time as Turing's final work, namely Cambridge around 1950, so an idea of DNA-as-Turing-machine-tape has floated around for decades.\n\nIn particular, the genome can be treated like a \"nano-brain” or pico-computer to see whether similar connection minimization strategies also appear in gene networks. As sketched above, for decades, wiring optimization in the brain has been reported that begins to approach some of the most precisely confirmed predictions in neuroscience.\n\nNow a connection-minimization idea is being explored for the human genome. Information transmission may not be cost-free even within a cell, nucleus, or genome. For example, a statistically significant supra-chromosomal homunculus – a global representation of the human body - appears to extend over the entire genome in the nucleus. This is a strategy for connection cost minimization (e.g., cf. body maps reported in sensory and motor cortex since the 19th century). In addition, finer-scale somatotopic mappings seem to occur on individual autosomal chromosomes.\n\n"}
{"id": "50725046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50725046", "title": "Community College Leadership and Administration: Theory, Practice, and Change", "text": "Community College Leadership and Administration: Theory, Practice, and Change\n\nCommunity College Leadership and Administration: Theory, Practice, and Change (2010) is a College and University Administration textbook by Dr. J Luke Wood and published by Peter Lange.\n\nThe textbook was a top 10 seller on Barnes and Nobles in the category of College and University Administration (currently ranked #7). The book also recently ranked #6 in Economic Theory this year on Amazon.\n"}
{"id": "29962724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29962724", "title": "Dora Draganova", "text": "Dora Draganova\n\nDora Draganova () (born 29 January 1946) is a Bulgarian composer.\n\nDora Draganova was born in Sofia, Bulgaria, the daughter of composer Illya Draganov. She studied composition at the State Academy of Music with Parashkev Hadjiev and Vesselin Stoyanov. After graduating in 1972, she taught piano at the Lyubomir Pipkov National Music High School and harmony at the National Dance Art High School (formerly the State Choreographic High School). She edited the choral literature magazine \"Native Song\" from 1971 to 1991. She won the first prize in Dobrich in 1999 for the musical play \"Pippi Long-Stocking\" after Astrid Lindgren. Her piano collection \"Children’s Corner\" also received an award from the Union of Bulgarian Composers.\n\nDora Draganova composes for stage and chamber ensemble, choral and pop performance and film soundtrack. \n"}
{"id": "4927883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4927883", "title": "ELML", "text": "ELML\n\nThe eLesson Markup Language (eLML) is an open source XML framework for creating electronic lessons. It is a \"spin-off\" from the GITTA project, a Swiss GIS eLearning project, and was launched in spring 2004. The eLML project is hosted at Sourceforge. The aim of eLML was to offer authors a tool that ensured conformity to pedagogical guidelines.\n\neLML is based on a teaching model called ECLASS (Gerson, 2000 ). ECLASS is an abbreviation for the following elements:\n\nThe original ECLASS model was slightly modified and e.g. additional elements like glossary, bibliography and metadata were added to be able to create a self-contained e-learning course. Furthermore, the three elements clarify, look and act together form a so-called \"learning object\" and these elements can be used in any sequence order and can even be used multiple times within one learning object. This allows that an author can start with an example (look) and then follow by explaining the theory (clarify) behind it or the other way round. Also the uncommon but sometimes very successful approach where the student starts with a short exercise (act) and only after having tried out some solutions can read the theory (clarify) behind it and see some real-world examples (look). The ECLASS model is on one hand flexible enough to represent different learning scenarios and to meet all the requirements needed by the creators of the e-learning lessons but ensures on the other hand that the content complies with the defined didactical guidelines.\n\nThese didactical guidelines where then mapped into an XML structure that allowed a strict checking if the author has correctly used the pedagogical model or not. The details are explained in detail below.\n\nThe described pedagogical model ECLASS is mapped onto an XML structure using XML Schema, as shown in this illustration:\n\nAn eLML lesson always starts with either the mandatory introduction (element entry) or a concise listing of the lesson’s learning objectives (element goals). The unit elements, described below, contain the actual content of a lesson. Following the units a lesson can have a summary and/or up to five self-assessments followed by an optional further reading and glossary section to list important resources and to describe terms used within the lesson. The XML Schema ensures that all glossary terms used in a lesson are defined in the glossary. The Harvard Referencing System or the APA style can be used for the bibliography. All citations, references, further readings etc., must be listed within the bibliography section, otherwise the XML parser issues an error and the lesson is not valid.\n\nThrough an amount of mandatory elements eLML ensures that at least the minimal metadata elements are filled out even though many authors do not like to fill in metadata information. The eLML metadata elements are a subset of the IMS Learning object metadata (LOM) that can be used to store data about the length of the lessons, the author(s), copyrights, the required knowledge to attempt this lesson and the basic technical requirements. The bibliography style elements and the metadata section are defined in a separate XML schema and thus can be replaced by other standards or definitions.\n\nWithin each unit a similar structure as on lesson level is employed. However, the elements glossary, bibliography and metadata are always defined for the whole lesson on lesson level. The actual content within a unit is stored in a number of so-called \"learning objects\" (not to be confused with the learning objectives – called \"goals\" within eLML). Each learning object describes a certain concept, model, equation, term, or process using all or some of the three elements clarify (theory), look (example) and act in free order. These three elements can have a special visual representation when transformed into a presentation format – e.g. a \"gear\" icon for act elements as used in GITTA to signalize the student that he or she has to \"do\" something – but their main purpose is to guide authors while creating content. Using the elements clarify, look and act, the author has to think about how a certain concept can be presented best to the student. Whether a learning object starts with some theory (clarify element) and continues with one or more examples (look elements) or, alternatively, the student first does something (act element) and then read the theory afterwards (clarify element) is left to the author.\n\nThanks to the use of standards like XML, XSLT or SVG all eLML lessons can be transformed and viewed with any web-browser on any platform and are totally software-independent. The two main transformation files that are included in the eLML package can transform a lesson into an \"online\" (both XHTML 1.1 and HTML5) and into a \"print\" (PDF) version (using XSL Formatting Objects) with one click. Both versions can be customized offering personalized layouts (see example below). More transformation files provided by eLML cover the following output formats: ODF (Open Document Format), DocBook, LaTeX and since 2010 also eBooks based on the ePub format. Since eLML supports both the IMS Global \"Content Package\" and the SCORM standard, the content can also easily be imported into any modern Learning Management System (LMS) like WebCT or OLAT. To create nice looking templates eLML offers a tool called \"Template Builder\" and it has built-in support for a CSS-framework called YAML. The following illustration shows an eLML lesson transformed into many different layouts and formats:\n\nStarting with version 5, eLML offers a wide range of tools: The \"eLML Editor\" to create lessons (based on the Firedocs Mozilla Firefox XML-Editor, the \"Template Builder\" to create layout templates (created as a Google Summer of Code project), and Add-On's for Apache Lenya CMS etc. With eLML 7 release a new transformation tool to create online lessons in various formats was launched: \"EasyELML\".\n\neLML is an open source project and available under the Apache 2 License. The main communication between the community users goes via the Sourceforge website, specially via the eLML-Users Mailinglist (for general issues) and the RFE (Feature Request) Tracker (for discussions about new features).\n"}
{"id": "51171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51171", "title": "Education in Australia", "text": "Education in Australia\n\nEducation in Australia encompasses the sectors of early childhood education (preschool) and primary education (primary schools), followed by secondary education (high schools), tertiary education (universities, TAFE colleges, and vocational education and training providers) and adult education (referred to as adult and community education or ACE). Regulation and funding of education is primarily the responsibility of the States and territories, but the Federal Government also plays a funding role.\n\nEducation in Australia is compulsory between the ages of five or six and fifteen, sixteen or seventeen, depending on the State or territory and date of birth.\n\nFor primary and secondary education, government schools educate approximately 60% of Australian students, with approximately 40% in private or independent schools. At the tertiary level, the majority of Australia's universities are public, and student fees are subsidised through a student loan program where payment becomes due when graduates reach a certain income level.\n\nFor primary and secondary schools, a national Australian Curriculum has been progressively developed and implemented since 2010.\n\nThe Education Index, published with the UN's Human Development Index in 2008, based on data from 2006, lists Australia as 0.993, the highest in the world. In 1966, Australia signed the Convention against Discrimination in Education, which aims to combat discrimination and racial segregation in the field of education.\n\nThe regulation, operation, and funding of education is the responsibility of the States and territories, because the Federal Government does not have a specific constitutional power to pass laws with respect to education. However, the Federal government helps fund independent or private schools, helps fund public universities and subsidises tertiary education through a national student loan scheme, and regulates vocational education providers.\n\nPost-compulsory education is regulated within the Australian Qualifications Framework, a unified system of national qualifications in schools, vocational education and training, and the tertiary education sector.\n\nThe Federal Government's involvement in education has been the responsibility of a number of departments over the years, the present version of which is the Department of Education and Training.\n\nThe academic year in Australia varies between States and institutions, but generally runs from late January/early February until early/mid-December for primary and secondary schools, with slight variations in the inter-term holidays and TAFE colleges, and from late February until mid-November for universities with seasonal holidays and breaks for each educational institute.\n\nPreschool and pre-prep programmes in Australia are relatively unregulated, and are not compulsory. The first exposure many Australian children have to learning with others outside of traditional parenting is day care or a parent-run playgroup. This sort of activity is not generally considered schooling, as preschool education is separate from primary school in all states and territories, except Western Australia where pre-school education is taught as part of the primary school system and Victoria where the state framework, VEYLDF covers children from birth to 8 years old, is used by some schools over the federal framework. In Queensland, preschool programmes are often called Kindergarten or Pre-Prep, and are usually privately run but attract state government funding if run for at least 600 hours a year and delivered by a registered teacher.\n\nPreschools are usually run by the state and territory governments, except in Victoria, South Australia and New South Wales where they are more often run by local councils, community groups or private organisations. Preschool is offered to three- to five-year-olds; attendance numbers vary widely between the states, but 85.7% of children attended pre-school the year before school. The year before a child is due to attend primary school is the main year for pre-school education. This year is far more commonly attended, and may take the form of a few hours of activity during weekdays.\n\nResponsibility for preschools in New South Wales and Victoria, lies with the Department of Education and Communities and the Department of Education and Early Childhood Development (DEECD), respectively. In all other states and territories of Australia, responsibility for preschools lie with the relevant education department.\n\nThe average net cost (taking into account the Child Care Benefit and Child Care Tax Rebate entitlements) for a long day care in Australia is $3.85 per hour, or a net cost of around $46 a day for a long day care service offering 12-hour days.\n\nSchool education in Australia is compulsory between certain ages as specified by state or territory legislation. Depending on the state or territory, and date of birth of the child, school is compulsory from the age of five to six to the age of fifteen to seventeen.\n\nIn the ACT, NSW, the Northern Territory, Queensland, South Australia, Victoria, and Western Australia, children are legally required to attend school from the age of six years old, until the minimum leaving age. In Tasmania, the compulsory school starting age is 5 years old.\n\nIn recent years, over three quarters of students stay at school until they are seventeen. Government schools educate approximately 60% of Australian students, with approximately 40% in Catholic and independent schools. A small portion of students are legally home-schooled, particularly in rural areas.\n\nGovernment schools (also known as public schools) are free to attend for Australian citizens and permanent residents, while Catholic and independent schools usually charge attendance fees. However, in addition to attendance fees, stationery, textbooks, uniforms, school camps and other schooling costs are not covered under government funding. The additional cost for schooling has been estimated to be on average $316 per year per child.\n\nRegardless of whether a school is part of the Government, Catholic or independent systems, they are required to adhere to the same curriculum frameworks of their state or territory. The curriculum framework however provides for some flexibility in the syllabus, so that subjects such as religious education can be taught. Most school students wear uniforms, although there are varying expectations and some Australian schools do not require uniforms. A common movement among secondary schools to support student voice has taken form as organisations such as VicSRC in Victoria bring together student leaders to promote school improvement.\n\nIn 2010 66% of students in Australia attended government schools, 20% attended Catholic schools and 14% attended independent schools. In 2000 these figures were 69%, 20% and 11% respectively.\n\nMost Catholic schools are either run by their local parish, local diocese and their state's Catholic education department.\nIndependent schools include schools operated by secular educational philosophies such as Steiner or Montessori; however, the majority of independent schools are religious, being Anglican, Protestant, Jewish, Islamic or non-denominational. In addition, many private schools are also Catholic, but independent of those run by the Church and Catholic education departments, which are classed as systemic schools. \n\nSome Catholic and independent schools charge high fees, and because of this, Government funding for these schools is often criticised by the Australian Education Union and the Greens.\n\nTertiary education (or higher education) in Australia is primarily study at university or a technical college studying Diploma or above in order to receive a qualification or further skills and training. A higher education provider is a body that is established or recognised by or under the law of the Australian Government, a State, the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory. VET providers, both public and private are registered by State and Territory governments.\n\nThere are several prominent universities located in Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney. There are 43 universities in Australia: 40 public universities, two international universities, one private university. The largest university in Australia is Monash University in Melbourne: it has five campuses and 75,000 students.\n\nThere are non-self-accrediting higher education providers accredited by State and Territory authorities, numbering more than 150 as listed on State and Territory registers. These include several that are registered in more than one State and Territory.\n\nAll students doing nationally recognised training need to have a Unique Student Identifier (USI).\n\nIn 2017, the number of international students studying in Australia reached a new record of 583,243. This represented an increase of more than 10% on the previous year.\n\nIn terms of rankings, 33 Australian educational institutions are listed in the QS World University Rankings for 2016, 31 institutions are listed in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings, 29 institutions are listed in China's Academic Ranking of World Universities ranking, and 26 institutions in U.S. News & World Report's Best Global Universities Rankings.\n\nThe Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) evaluation in 2006 ranked the Australian education system as sixth for reading, eighth for science and thirteenth for mathematics, on a worldwide scale including 56 countries. The PISA evaluation in 2009 ranked the Australian education system as sixth for reading, seventh for science and ninth for mathematics, an improvement relative to the 2006 rankings. In 2012, education firm Pearson ranked Australian education as thirteenth in the world \n\nThe Education Index, published with the UN's Human Development Index in 2008, based on data from 2006, lists Australia as 0.993, the highest in the world.\n\nDespite a substantial increase in government spending per student over the past ten years (after correcting for inflation), the proportion of students who are proficient in math, reading and science have actually declined over that same period. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the Menzies Research Centre have both concluded that increasing school funding above a basic level has little effect on student proficiency. Instead, they both recommend greater autonomy. That is, the states should merely monitor the performance of the schools. Individual principals should have full authority and responsibility for ensuring student proficiency in core areas.\n\nIn Queensland, the Education Minister of the State of Queensland said in July 2009 that the rising levels of violence in schools in Queensland were \"totally unacceptable\" and that not enough had been done to combat violent behaviour. In Queensland, 55,000 school students had been suspended in 2008, nearly a third of which were for \"physical misconduct\".\n\nIn South Australia, 175 violent attacks against students or staff were recorded in 2008. Students were responsible for deliberately causing 3,000 injuries reported by teachers over two years from 2008 to 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24519615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24519615", "title": "Ellen Bass", "text": "Ellen Bass\n\nEllen Bass (born 1947 in Philadelphia) is an American poet and co-author of \"The Courage to Heal\".\n\nBass grew up in Pleasantville, New Jersey, where her parents owned a liquor store, and subsequently her family moved to Ventnor City, New Jersey. She attended Goucher College, where she graduated \"magna cum laude\" in 1968 with her bachelor's degree. She pursued a master's degree in creative writing at Boston University, where she studied with Anne Sexton, and graduated in 1970. From 1970–1974, Bass worked at Project Place, a social service center in Boston. She currently is teaching in the low residency MFA program at Pacific University in Oregon and has been teaching Writing About Our Lives workshops since 1974 in Santa Cruz, California.\n\nHer poems have been published widely in journals and anthologies, including the \"New Yorker\", the \"Atlantic Monthly\", the \"American Poetry Review\", the \"Kenyon Review\", and \"Ploughshares\".\n\nHer nonfiction books include \"I Never Told Anyone: Writings by Women Survivors of Child Sexual Abuse\" (HarperCollins, 1983), \"Free Your Mind: The Book for Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Youth and Their Allies\" (HarperCollins, 1996), and \"The Courage to Heal: A Guide for Women Survivors of Child Sexual Abuse\" (HarperCollins, 1988, 2008) which has been translated into twelve languages.\n\nIn 2017, Bass was elected a Chancellor of the Academy of American Poets.\n\nBass lives in Santa Cruz, California, where she has taught poetry and creative writing for the low-residency Master of Fine Arts program at Pacific University since 1974.\n\nBass was awarded the Elliston Book Award for Poetry from the University of Cincinnati, \"Nimrod\"/Hardman's Pablo Neruda Prize, \"The Missouri Review’s\" Larry Levis Award, the Greensboro Poetry Prize, the New Letters Poetry Prize, the Chautauqua Poetry Prize, three Pushcart Prizes, a Fellowship from the National Endowment for the Arts, and a fellowship from the California Arts Council.\n\n\"The Human Line\" (Copper Canyon Press, 2007) was named among the notable books of 2007 in the poetry section by the San Francisco Chronicle, and \"Mules of Love\" (BOA Editions, 2002) won the 2002 Lambda Literary Award in the lesbian poetry category.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13661578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13661578", "title": "Erasmus Mundus", "text": "Erasmus Mundus\n\nThe European Union's Erasmus Mundus programme aims to enhance quality in higher education through scholarships and academic co-operation between the EU and the rest of the world.\n\nErasmus Mundus comprises three actions:\n\nUnder Action 1, Erasmus Mundus supports Joint Programmes (Masters Courses and Joint Doctorates) that are operated by consortia of higher education institutions from the EU and (since 2009) elsewhere in the world. They provide an integrated course and joint or multiple diplomas following study or research at two or more higher education institutions.\nErasmus Mundus funds a number of scholarships for students and academics studying or teaching on Erasmus Mundus Masters Courses. Since 2010, fellowships have also been available for doctoral candidates following one of the Joint doctorates.\n\nScholarships cover participation costs, subsistence costs, and insurance for the duration of the study period. Many students also have the right to a contribution to travel costs.\n\nUnder Action 2, Erasmus Mundus Partnerships bring together higher education institutions from Europe and from a particular region in the world. Together, the partnerships manage mobility flows between the two regions for a range of academic levels—undergraduate, masters, doctorate, post-doctorate—and for academic staff.\n\nScholarships cover participation costs, subsistence costs, insurance for the duration of the study period, plus a contribution to travel costs.\n\nUnder Action 3, Erasmus Mundus funds projects to enhance the attractiveness and visibility of European higher education worldwide. Activities focus on the international dimension of higher education, often targeting a particular region or academic discipline.\n\nFunding is available for:\n\nPakistani novelist Nimra Ahmed's novel \"Jannat K Patte\" (Leaves of Heaven) is based on Erasmus Programme, where the protagonist Haya went to Sabancı University through Erasmus Mundus, which marked the turning point in her life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9812610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9812610", "title": "Faculty of Political Science, Ankara University", "text": "Faculty of Political Science, Ankara University\n\nThe Faculty of Political Science of the University of Ankara (, more simply known as \"SBF\") is the oldest faculty of social science in Turkey, being the successor of the \"Mekteb-i Mülkiye\" (also known as the \"Mülkiye\") which was established in Istanbul on February 12, 1859, under the reign of Sultan Abdulaziz, then moved to Ankara in 1936 under a new name, and was incorporated to Ankara University on April 3, 1950, under its current name. The Faculty of Political Science provides higher education in the fields of Social Science, Public Finance, Economics, Public Administration, Labor Economics, Business Administration and International Relations.\nIt is considered to be one of the most influential institutes in the political life of Turkey.\n\nThe faculty was founded in Istanbul as a community college in 1859 and has undergone series of changes since the establishment. It was named Mekteb-i Mülkiye-i Şahane under the Ministry of Internal Affairs but in 1918 the name was changed to \"Mekteb-i Mülkiye\" under the Ministry of Education. After the founding of the Republic, at the request of Atatürk, the school was moved to Ankara, and named the School of Political Science. The length of study was also increased to 4 years. On March 23, 1950, the school was placed under Ankara University, and its name was changed to Ankara University, Faculty of Political Science. The school has been a symbol of freedom of expression and organization. Holders of every different political view have found there an environment in which they could freely express themselves on a democratic platform as an important difference between Mülkiye and other universities.\n\nMasters and Doctorate programs were implemented in the 1955-56 academic year. In 1982, the faculty adopted the new framework, increasing the number of specialization departments to six: International Relations, Political Science and Public Administration, Economics, Public Finance, Business Administration, Labor Economics and Industrial Relations. Since the 2008-2009 academic year, Foreign Language Preparatory School has been mandatory.\n\nThe faculty currently has 172 academic staff (42 professors, 33 associate professors, 34 assistant professors, 18 research assistants with doctorates, 35 research assistants pursuing doctorate degrees, four lecturers and six experts) and 78 administrative staff.\n\nThe faculty's alumni, who are also called Mülkìyelìler, are employed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs, Public Finance and in public institutions including banks and private companies. A number of alumni have served as prime ministers, ministers, deputies, ambassadors, and governors.\n\nMülkiyeliler Birliği, the faculty's Alumni Association is a non-governmental organization with branches across the country. It organizes variety of courses, seminars, symposiums and exhibitions. It also publishes magazines and books.\n\nThe faculty has several teaching facilities to meet the needs of various courses and departments. In addition to the two amphis, the faculty has a 450-seat conference hall, several large classrooms, seminar rooms, multipurpose rooms and computer centers.\n\nFor all departments, English language preparation classes have been mandatory since 2008-2009. In addition, foreign language courses are available. Since the 1992-1993 academic year, language courses covering the departmental terminology have been given as electives.\n\nThe library specializes in the field of social sciences. There are 108,000 Turkish and foreign language books. The library has a collection of 46,000 domestic and overseas periodicals and newspaper collections of historical value. The library has a 300-seat reading room, as well as the \"Hande Mumcu Reading Room\" for periodicals and the \"Ali Cankaya Room\" with tapes and CD-ROMs.\n\nThe faculty has published the Journal of Political Science (SBF Dergisi) four times a year since 1943.\n\nIn addition to a canteen (Coffee Mülkiye) and two tea centers, there is a dining room which provides service to faculty, academic and administrative staff.\n\nAlthough there are many student dormitories at the University of Ankara, they are not sufficient to accommodate all students. To compensate this shortcoming, there are many private and state dormitories in Ankara which give housing services to students.\n\nThe faculty offers a wide range of social and sporting activities including theater, cinema, art, music and dance ensembles, plus over 30 communities of thought.\n\nThe faculty's basketball team, Mülkiyespor, which is supported by Alumni, competes in the secondary league.\n\nOne of the most colorful aspects of social life in the faculty is the traditional cow festival organized once a year since the 1930s, prior to final exams. The Cow Festival () is the famous celebration when the top student in a given class is forced to parade the streets on a cow – a play on words since “cow” is slang for nerd in Turkish. It is organized by a Festival Organization Committee (Feskom) elected from third and fourth year students. Faculty members, students and alumni join in the opening ceremony, reading the prayer of that year together. A \"reading cow sculpture\" was built in front of the faculty by the Festival Organization Committee 2000.\n\n\nMülkiye March was composed by Musa Süreyya and its lyrics were written by Cemal Edhem (Yeşil) as alumni of Class of 1921. Its first two lines translated as: \"We do not want another love, because it is your love in our hearts; stop weeping, beloved country, because we have arrived.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44646729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44646729", "title": "Garcia Frankowski", "text": "Garcia Frankowski\n\nGarcia Frankowski is an artist duo formed by Cruz Garcia (born 1983 in San Juan, Puerto Rico) and Nathalie Frankowski (born 1985, Dundee, Scotland). Garcia and Frankowski worked in Beijing where they also direct WAI Think Tank and Intelligentsia Gallery, where they also work as curators. Currently, they work as Hyde Lecture Chairs at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. \n\nCruz Garcia received a M.Arch Degree from the University of Puerto Rico while Nathalie Frankowski obtained a State Diploma of Architecture specialized in research from the Department of Art, Architecture and Philosophy of the École nationale supérieure d'architecture de Paris-La Villette .\n\nGarcia Frankowski was founded after their members started working together in Brussels in 2008. In 2009 they relocated to Beijing where they currently live and work.\n\nThe work of Garcia Frankowski includes painting, mix media, book making, collage, animations, and large scale installations. Recent exhibitions include group shows at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the Chinese Centre for Contemporary Art in Manchester, the Kunst-Werke Institute for Contemporary Art in Berlin, the Vitra Design Museum in Weil am Rhein, Star Gallery, Intelligentsia Gallery and Pifo New Art Gallery in Beijing.\n\nRecent publications include the artist’s book Shapes, Islands, Texts: A Garcia Frankowski Manifesto, the book Pure Hardcore Icons: A Manifesto on Pure Form in Architecture. the children’s book The Story of the Little Girl and the Sun, as well as several unique artist’s books as well as the architectural magazine What About It? \n\nThe Work of Cruz Garcia and Nathalie Frankowski has been selected to participate at the 1st Chicago Architecture Biennial and the 1st Changjian Video and Photography Biennale at the Chongqin Changjian Museum of Contemporary Art. Their work has been exhibited in New York, Los Angeles, Columbus, Chicago, Michigan, Barcelona, Madrid, Bratislava, Buenos Aires, San Juan, Montevideo, Guadalajara, Zurich, London, Beijing, Shanghai, Tokyo, Osaka, Milan, Moscow, Venice, Istanbul, Prague, Helsinki, Paris, Sydney, Melbourne, Lisbon and Porto.\n\nRecent curatorial projects include several exhibitions at Intelligentsia Gallery, among them Softcore: Subverted Superstructure and the Systemic Sublime, and the group exhibition about independent magazines and artist’s books Paper Manifestoes presented during the 2014 edition of Beijing Design Week.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53055064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53055064", "title": "Higher education in Afghanistan", "text": "Higher education in Afghanistan\n\nHigher education in Afghanistan outlines government policies to reform higher education at Afghan universities and the impact of these reforms. The term higher education is a synonym for post-secondary education, third stage, third level or tertiary education. \n\nHigher education was one of the eight pillars of the \"Afghan National Development Strategy\" for 2008–2014. In December 2009, the Afghan Ministry of Higher Education launched the \"National Higher Education Strategic Plan: 2010\"–\"2014\". Its two main goals were to improve quality and broaden access to higher education, with an emphasis on gender equity.\nOne of the most striking responses to the destruction of the higher education system has been the effort spelled out in the Afghan Ministry of Higher Education’s (MoHE) National Higher Education Strategic Plan: 2010–2014 (MoHE 2009c) to not only rebuild the system that remained in 2001, but\nalso transform it into a modern, merit-based system that is once again one of the best in South Asia, as had been the case before the Russian invasion, as well as one that meets international standards, making it competitive with other systems in the region.\nThe \"National Higher Education Strategic Plan: 2010\"–\"2014\" was the outcome of a series of consultation workshops with Afghan universities undertaken by the Ministry of Higher Education in 2009 with support from UNESCO and the World Bank. The \"National Higher Education Strategic Plan: 2010\"–\"2014\" built on an earlier framework for the reform of higher education developed by the Ministry of Higher Education with the support of UNESCO's International Institute for Educational Planning in 2004. The earlier reform had covered a wide spectrum, including the institutional structure of universities, questions of governance, recruitment and retention of staff and students, the relationship between teaching and research, management, finance and the procurement of equipment, land and textbooks.\n\nAccording to the \"National Higher Education Strategic Plan: 2010\"–\"2014,\" higher education was to represent 20% of the country’s education budget by 2015, equivalent to US$800 per student by 2014 and US$1 000 by 2015. The approved budget for 2012 for higher education was US$47.1 million, equivalent to US$471 per student. By 2014, only 15% (US$84.13 million) of the US$564 million in funding requested of donors by the Ministry of Higher Education had materialized since 2010. The main donors were the World Bank, USAid, the US State Department, North Atlantic Treaty Organization, India, France and Germany.\n\nThe Ministry of Higher Education has largely surpassed its target for raising university enrollment, which doubled between 2011 and 2014 to 153,314. The government had tabled on the number of students doubling to 115,000 by 2015. A shortfall in funding has prevented the construction of facilities from keeping pace with the rapid rise in student rolls, however. Many facilities also still need upgrading; there were no functioning laboratories for physics students at Kabul University in 2013, for instance.\n\nAccording to a progress report by the Ministry of Higher Education, the number of women students tripled between 2008 and 2014 to 30,467, yet women still represented just one in five university students.\n\nPart of the growth in university student rolls can be attributed to ‘night school’, which extends access to workers and young mothers. Having a ‘night shift’ for students also makes use of limited space that would otherwise be vacant in the evenings. The night shift is proving increasingly popular, with 16,198 students enrolling in 2014, compared to just 6,616 two years earlier. Women represented 12% (1,952) of those attending evening classes in 2014.\n\nWithin its \"Higher Education Gender Strategy\" (2013), the Ministry of Higher Education has developed an action plan to augment the number of women students and faculty. A pillar of this plan is the construction of women’s dormitories. With help from the US State Department, one was completed in Herat in 2014 and another two are planned for Balkh and Kabul. They should house about 1,200 women in total. The ministry also requested funds from the National Priority Programme budget for the construction of ten additional dormitories for 4,000 women students; six of these were completed in 2013.\n\nAccording to the targets outlined in the \"Higher Education Gender Strategy\" (2013), women were to represent 25% of university students by 2014 and 30% by 2015. By 2014, they accounted for 19.9% of students, down from 20.5% in 2010. Female enrolment has accelerated since 2010 but male enrolment has progressed faster. Girls still encounter more difficulties than boys in completing their schooling and are penalized by the lack of university dormitories for women. In 2012, there was a net intake of 66% of girls and 89% of boys at the level of primary education. Boys could expect to complete 11 years of schooling and girls seven.\n\nBy October 2014, 117 women (23% of the total) were pursuing a master's degree at Afghan universities, compared to 508 men.\n\nThe \"Higher Education Gender Strategy\" fixes a target for women to make up 20% of faculty members by 2015. By October 2014, 690 faculty members were women (14%). The \"Strategy\" also advocates increasing the number of women faculty who hold a master's degree or a PhD. By October 2014, 203 women held a master's degree, compared to 1,277 men, and 10 women a PhD.\n\nBy 2014, the Curriculum Commission established by the Ministry of Higher Education had approved the curricular reviews and upgrades for one-third of Afghanistan’s public and private faculties. Progress in meeting recruitment goals has also been steady, since staffing is covered by the regular budget allocations. One of the ministry’s priorities has been to increase the number of master’s programmes. This will broaden opportunities for women, in particular, given the difficulties they face in going abroad for master’s and PhD training. For instance, half of the students enrolled in the two new master’s programmes in education and public administration in 2013 were women. Five of the eight master's degrees granted by Kabul University between 2007 and 2012 were also obtained by women. By 2015, a total of 25 master's programmes were available.\n\nIn 2008, 5.2% of the 2,526 faculty members at Afghan universities held a PhD, 30.1% a master's degree and 63.8% a bachelor's degree. One priority of the Ministry of Education has been to increase the share of faculty and augment the number of those who hold a master's degree or PhD. The wider choice of academic programmes has enabled more faculty to obtain a master's degree but doctoral students still need to study abroad, in order to increase the small pool of PhDs in Afghanistan. The share of master’s and PhD-holders has dropped in recent years, as the number of faculty members at Afghan universities has risen; the drop in the share of PhD-holders from 5.2% to 3.8% between 2008 and 2014 was also due to a wave of retirement. By October 2014, there were 5,006 faculty members. Some 1,480 of them held a master's degree (29.6% of the total) and 192 a PhD (3.8%). A further 625 faculty were expected to graduate with a master's degree by December 2015.\n\nTwo schemes enable faculty to study abroad. Between 2005 and 2013, 235 faculty members completed their master's degree abroad, thanks to the World Bank’s Strengthening Higher Education Programme. In 2013 and 2014, the Ministry of Higher Education’s development budget funded the study abroad of 884 faculty working towards their master's degree and 37 faculty enrolled in doctoral programmes.\n\nAfghan students may apply for a scholarship to complete their master's degree or PhD at the South Asian University in India, which offers subsidized tuition fees to all students from the member countries of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation. In February 2016, the Afghan Students Alumni ran a Seminar at Avicenna University in Kabul on Academic Opportunities for MA and PhD Programmes at the South Asian University.\n\nIn order to revive Afghanistan’s research culture, research units have been installed at 12 universities as part of the World Bank’s Higher Education Systems Improvement Project. These are Kabul University, Kabul Polytechnic University, Herat University, Nangarhar University, Balkh University, Kandahar University, Kabul Education University, Albiruni University, Khost University, Takhar University, Bamyan University and Jawzjan University. In parallel, the Ministry of Higher Education developed a digital library in 2011 and 2012 which provides all faculty, students and staff with access to about 9,000 academic journals and 7,000 e-books.\n\nParticipation in research is now a requirement for the promotion of faculty at every level. In the first round of competitive bidding in 2012, research grants were approved for projects proposed by faculty members from Kabul University, Bamyan University and Kabul Education University. Projects concerned the use of IT in learning and research; challenges of the new middle school mathematics curriculum; the effect of automobile pollution on grapevines; integrated management of nutrients in wheat varieties; traditional ways of blending concrete; and the effect of different methods of collecting sperm from bulls. The research committee established at each of the 12 universities approved nine research proposals in 2013 and a further 12 in 2014.\n\nThe Ministry of Higher Education has been working with the Asian Institute of Technology in Thailand to develop joint educational programmes. As part of this collaboration, 12 university faculty members were seconded to the institute in 2014.\n\nWork began on drafting a national research policy in 2014.\n\nA major goal of the Ministry of Higher Education is to grant some financial autonomy to universities, which as of 2015 were not entitled to charge tuition fees or keep any income. The ministry cites a World Bank study from 2005 of Pakistan, which repealed similar restrictive legislation about a decade ago. ‘Now, Pakistani universities, on average, earn 49% of their budget (with some as high as 60%) from income they raise and gifts,’ observes the ministry.\n\nThe aim of the reform is to foster entrepreneurship, university–industry ties and the universities’ capacity to provide services. The ministry has prepared a proposal which would allow higher education institutions to keep funds that they earn from entrepreneurial activities, such as drugs analysis done by the Faculty of Pharmacy at Kabul University for the Ministry of Public Health. They would also be able to keep income from night courses and donations from benefactors and alumni. In addition, they would be entitled to set up foundations which could accumulate funds for major projects.\n\nThe ministry’s position was vindicated by the outcome of a pilot project implemented in 2012 which gave universities in Kabul greater authority over procurement and expenditure below a certain financial threshold. The ministry’s plans have been put on hold, however, by the failure of parliament to pass the Higher Education Law, which was approved by the Education Committee in 2012.\n\nAfghan scientists produced just 1.4 publication per million inhabitants in 2014, according to Thomson Reuters' Web of Science (Science Citation Index Expanded), the lowest ratio in South Asia. The world average was 176 per million. However, the number of Afghan articles catalogued in this international database increased from seven to 44 between 2005 and 2014. Some 96.5% of articles produced between 2008 and 2014 had a foreign co-author. Most partners were based in the USA (97 articles), followed by the United Kingdom (52), Pakistan (29), Egypt and Japan (26 each). Afghan articles were the most highly cited of any country in South Asia, with 9.7% of them featuring among the 10% most cited articles worldwide, compared to a G20 average of 10.2%. A high citation rate is common for countries producing a very small volume of scientific publications.\n\nOf the publications produced by Afghan scientists between 2008 and 2014, 114 (59%) of those catalogued in Thomson Reuters' Web of Science concerned medical sciences and 33 biological sciences. Ten articles concerned agriculture, five chemistry and two engineering.\n\n"}
{"id": "10193501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10193501", "title": "History of Islamic University of Technology", "text": "History of Islamic University of Technology\n\nIslamic University of Technology (IUT) was first known as Islamic Center for Technical and Vocational Training (ICTVTR). It was the time of its birth in the year 1978. The 9th Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers (ICFM) held in Dakar, Republic of Senegal on 24–28 April 1978. The establishment of IUT in Dhaka, Bangladesh was then approved by the then foreign ministers. All the members of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC) agreed to cooperate for the implementation of the project.\n\nThe implementation of the establishment commenced with the holding of the first meeting of the Board of Governors in June, 1979.\nIIT was formally inaugurated by Begum Khaleda Zia the then Prime Minister of Bangladesh on 21 September 1995.\nIUT was formally inaugurated by Begum Khaleda Zia Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Bangladesh on November 29, 2001.\n\nThe University has advanced much in a short time and still infrastructure is going on by availing the financing under loan from Islamic Development Bank (IDB) with guarantee provided by the Government of Bangladesh.\n\nUniversity started offering long regular courses from December 1986 and completed 24 academic years until 2010. The 24th Convocation was held at the IUT auditorium on 2 November 2010. Her Excellency Begum Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Bangladesh was the Chief Guest on the occasion.\n\n"}
{"id": "20962936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20962936", "title": "Interactive acculturation", "text": "Interactive acculturation\n\nThe interactive acculturation model (IAM) seeks to integrate within a common theoretical framework the following components of immigrants and host community relations in multicultural settings:\nThe framework of these established among a structural political/governmental environment. Ultimately, the goal of the model is to present a non-determinist, more dynamic account of immigrant and host community acculturation in multicultural settings.\n\nEssentially the model takes both sides of immigration (host and immigrant) and compares the values and desire to hold on to historical and cultural ties of the immigrant population versus the desire or degree to which the host population is willing to accommodate the immigrant influx. Examples of questions posed to the host population include:\nThe model derives two important pieces of data:\nThe model essentially categorizes the population, based on the responses, as being in favor of integration, assimilation, or separation. When cross compared with the level of accommodation the host society is willing to provide, the model predicts whether the immigrant population will become fully assimilated, marginalized, or even isolated from the host society.\n\nIn the past, acculturation has been described in both a macro level where there is emphasis on processes and effects on populations and at a micro level where it describes the psychological effect on individuals. Bourhis et al., reference the earlier work of both Graves and Berry in the identification of individual psychological change that the immigrant experiences during their integration into a host culture. These changes are observed in the individual who is influenced by the new culture as well as participating and interacting within the new culture. To further understand the social and psychological effects of immigrant acculturation, the Bourhis team starts their model with an analysis of structural policies that address immigration, particularly in host nations.\n\nThe Bourhis et al. article delineates first the ideologies that make up the basis of the policies that are present in the host state. The study very much accepts the notion that these policies are very influential in the dynamics and the eventual acculturation process that goes on by the host and immigrant people. The Bourhis team categorized the host nation policies in the manner of Breton into state immigration policies that spell out quantities, type and origin of allowed immigrants, conditions and rules and then go on further to define the living rules that immigrants must live by in the host country such as work permits, ability to naturalize, etc. In addition we also have identified state integration policies that addressed mechanisms to help immigrants with joining into the host culture as well as measures to aid in host country acceptance of immigrants. These two types of policies may be symbiotic or at odds with each other in terms of goals and focus. The Bourhis team was primarily concerned with Western countries and noticed that in these nations, the policies, research, implementation and responsibility for both immigration and integration often resided in one sole governmental agency. This agency was often chartered with duties of writing statues, enforcing immigration laws and very possibly may be the governmental focus for assimilation and integration policy. Based on international conventions and referencing previous work by Kaplan, sovereign countries possess the right and responsibility to define the limits and scope of nationality. Each country is presumed to have the right to decide who is a national and what does it take to be a national of that nation. Nations will derive their immigration policies based on a multitude of factors but in the context of state and national attitudes toward the immigrant populations. These policies define not only numbers and bureaucratic processes but also address the illegal immigration and the methods of countering it. As with all state policy, the laws enacted reflect both the majority host nation attitudes as well as help form these attitudes. The Bourhis model is premised on the adaptation of four groupings for state policies. The state integration policies are not exclusive and permanent to a particular host country. The ideologies exist as a combination of the state policies and the surrounding public support that it is deemed were the basis of these policies. The state policies are usually not codified into constitutional form and are modified over time to reflect the changing circumstances and attitudes of both the people and the government. The following are described by Bourhis in the explanation of the IAM:\n\nA construct based on the idea that the host nation expects immigrant populations to adhere and adopt host nation public values such as democracy and individual freedom but are free to maintain individual and native cultural values as long as they are within the wide confines and boundaries of host laws (native language use is OK but polygamy would not be acceptable). The policies adopted by the state would reflect a positive view of immigrants maintaining their diverse cultures and would support these differences not only socially but possibly financially. It is this last detail of financial support or government enactment of positive policy that differentiates this from a more civic ideology and state policy. Some Scandinavian countries as well as other western democracies have at times leaned this way to encourage cultural diversity and set acculturation as a state goal.\n\nThese policies would also maintain the premise that immigrants adopt host nation public values and that individual values are not to be dictated or regulated by the host government. But in civic ideologies, there is no public financial support for these private values or for the continuation and flourishing of the particular culture. The cultural identities and values are allowed but not promoted by the host nation in a government policy of non-intervention. Many European countries and various Latin American countries espouse a civic ideology to some extent. These countries often witness flourishing immigrant populations that maintain a cultural identity and sometimes language.\n\nThese are the set of beliefs and policies that support both the adoption of public values by the immigrant population but also of some private values of host nation dominant culture. We would expect these policies to dictate such aspects like a single language in the schools and encourage voluntary (sometimes mandatory) cultural integration at all levels to homogenize the expressions of the immigrant population with that of the host nation. This could not only be voluntary but encouraged or mandated and expected to happen over time. The US had essentially assimilation policies until the great influx of immigrants during the last half of the past century at which time the country has softened its attitudes and policies toward a more civic ideology. A variant to the assimilation ideology is the Republican ideology similar to that expressed in France as far back as the revolution that supposes a \"universal man\" that is able to suppress less desired, backward, cultural traits and require a \"leveling out\" in order to fully participate as an equal in the society.\n\nThis is basically the idea that the state can mandate the whole of public and private values and make them a precondition to full citizenship. It occasionally is manifested in the mandatory taking of host country values as necessary by the immigrant populations or more often this ideology is expressed in a requirement to be part of an ethnicity, religion or race to be accepted as a citizen. Governments may enact blood relations requirement or parentage to conditions for citizenship. Witness countries like Switzerland, Israel and Japan where immigrants are not accepted as they lack the ethnic blood to become full members of the citizenry and can only be allowed a lesser status such as guest worker or second class citizen.\n\nThe attitudes of immigrant populations that shape their acculturation and level of assimilation into the host society vary widely. One attitude in particular that has been explored is the concept of biculturalism. Under Gordon's (1964) proposal, he identifies a unidimensional model of acculturation that immigrant groups undergo over time as they strive to maintain equilibrium between their own culture/heritage against those of their adoptive host state. This equilibrium is essentially biculturalism, where the immigrant population retains features of their heritage culture while adopting key elements of the host’s culture. Biculturalism is transitory however, and over time, the immigrant population eventually assimilates into the culture of the host nation and becomes a \"rightful member\" of the majority, to fit into the existing social structure of the host society.\n\nCritics of the unidimensional model cite the influx of technologically and culturally advanced European powers into less developed societies into the new world that in essence assimilated the host society. The unidimensional model fails to account for the fact that the host majority is also changed by the presence of culturally distinctive immigrants.\n\nEfforts to explain further acculturation and assimilation among immigrant populations led to the formulation of the Bidimensional model of acculturation. Under this model, more importance is placed in viewing the importance immigrant populations identify with the aspects of their own culture. Under the Berry’s model of acculturation, immigrant’s attitudes are described as being focused on two points; 1) \"Is it considered to be of value to maintain cultural identity and characteristics?\" and 2) \"Is it considered to be of value to maintain relationships with other groups?\"\n\nVarious studies among Portuguese, Hungarian, Korean, and Lebanese immigrant in Canada and Indian Immigrants in the US found that the majority of these groups desired \"integration\" versus marginalization. Further results off the study would go on to show that these groups who desired integration suffered less from \"acculturation stress\" than others. According to Berry, the fact that integration was the most widely preferred mode of acculturation in his studies suggests that pluralism [where a state expects immigrants will adopt the public values of the host country (democratic ideals and criminal codes) but has mandate defining private value s] may constitute the ideology that best reflects the orientation of many first-generation immigrants in North America. It can thus be argued that immigrants desire to hold on to elements of their own culture but also assimilate aspects of their host culture, thus becoming \"integrated\" into their host society.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171222", "title": "Intern architect", "text": "Intern architect\n\nAn intern architect or architectural intern is a person who is working professionally in the field of architecture in preparation for registration or licensure as an architect. An intern need not have attained a professional degree in architecture to begin accruing experience hours, but said degree is a prerequisite for licensure.\n\nIn the United States, Canada, and other countries, an intern architect is enrolled in a regulated program, such as the Intern Development Program (IDP) in the United States or the Intern Architect Program (IAP) in Canada, while working under the supervision of a licensed architect and preparing for professional registration exams.\n\nThe use of the title \"architect\" (or any derivation thereof) is legally protected in the United States, Canada, and other countries. Most U.S. states and all Canadian provinces, however, allow the use of the terms \"intern architect\" or \"architectural intern\" for a person enrolled in an architectural internship program.\n\nThe Intern Development Program (IDP) is a national program, developed and administered by NCARB, in the United States designed to provide structured training for Intern Architects to ensure that they are exposed to most aspects of the architectural profession prior to attaining professional licensure.\n\nA candidate works under the tutelage of one or more architects as mentor(s) on a regular basis. Additionally, the intern architect selects a sponsor, who is an architect who does not work for the firm where the intern is employed. Together, the mentor and the sponsor work with the intern to make sure that the intern is actively working towards satisfying the requirements of the IDP program.\n\nThe program prescribes the minimum experience hours required in various activities pertaining to practice in architecture before attaining professional licensure. Interns track these hours using experience reports that are verified and confirmed by their mentor. These activities fall into four categories: Pre-Design, Design, Project Management, and Practice Management, each of which includes tasks that architects will perform as part of their professional responsibilities. In total, interns must complete 5600 hours of reported experience before attaining professional licensure. In most states Interns may begin taking the Architect Registration Examination (ARE) while they are participating in the Intern Development Program, but will not attain professional licensure before successful completion of both the ARE and IDP.\n\nThe IDP was created jointly in the 1970s by the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB) and the American Institute of Architects (AIA) and is administered by NCARB.\n\nThe Intern Architect Program (IAP) is a national program in Canada that documents and evaluates internship activities, provides structure to the transition between education and registration, and encourages involvement of practitioners in the development of new architects. The IAP was established by the Committee of Canadian Architectural Councils (CCAC), which has representatives from each of the ten provincial associations of architects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13807644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13807644", "title": "James J. Hill Center", "text": "James J. Hill Center\n\nThe James J. Hill Center (originally the James J. Hill Reference Library) is a privately funded business research library at 80 West Fourth Street in Saint Paul, Minnesota. It is open to the public and its resources can be used for free on site. In addition, the Center hosts business and social events in its historic reading room. The library is part of the civic legacy of Mr. James J. Hill.\n\nThe James J. Hill Center was completed after his death and funded by his widow, Mary T. Hill, and children Mary Hill, Rachel Hill Boeckmann, Clara Hill Lindley, Louis W. Hill, and Charlotte Hill Slade. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1975.\n"}
{"id": "11987681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11987681", "title": "Joseph Priestley and education", "text": "Joseph Priestley and education\n\nJoseph Priestley ( – 8 February 1804) was a British natural philosopher, Dissenting clergyman, political theorist, and theologian. While his achievements in all of these areas are renowned, he was also dedicated to improving education in Britain; he did this on an individual level and through his support of the Dissenting academies. His grammar textbook was innovative and highly influential. More importantly, though, Priestley introduced a liberal arts curriculum at Warrington Academy, arguing that a practical education would be more useful to students than a classical one. He was also the first to advocate the study and teaching of modern history, an interest driven by his belief that humanity was improving and could bring about Christ's Millennium.\n\nPriestley was a teacher in one way or another throughout his entire adult life. Once he discovered how much he enjoyed teaching, he consistently returned to this calling. At the school he established in Nantwich, Cheshire, he taught a wide range of topics to the town's children: Latin (and perhaps Greek), geography, mathematics, and English grammar. Unusually for the time, he also taught natural philosophy. Following the success of this school, he was offered the position of tutor of modern languages and rhetoric at Warrington Academy. In later years, when he lived in Leeds and Birmingham, he created classes for the youth of his parishes; in Birmingham his three classes totaled 150 students and he helped organize the New Meeting Sunday schools for the poor.\n\nHaving received an excellent education at Daventry, a Dissenting academy, and convinced that education was the key to shaping people and the world's future, Priestley continued to support the Dissenting academies throughout his life. For example, he advised the founders of New College at Hackney on its curriculum and preached a charity sermon on the \"proper Objects of Education\" to help raise money for the school. After emigrating to America in 1794, Priestley continued the educational projects that had always been important to him. He attempted to find funding for the Northumberland Academy and donated his library to it, but the academy did not open until 1813 and closed soon after. He communicated with Thomas Jefferson regarding the proper organization of a university and when Jefferson founded the University of Virginia, it was Priestley's curricular principles that dominated the school. Jefferson also passed Priestley's advice on to Bishop James Madison, whose College of William & Mary also followed Priestley's maxims.\n\nWherever Priestley went, he also instructed people in natural philosophy. In Nantwich, he bought scientific instruments, such as a microscope, for the school, and encouraged his students to give public presentations of their experiments. In Calne, where he was a tutor to the son of Lord Shelburne, Priestley convinced his patron to buy expensive equipment with which to teach his son the fundamentals of natural philosophy. He wrote in his \"Miscellaneous Observations relating to Education\" (1778), published during these years, that children should not only be educated in the ancient subjects of rhetoric and grammar but should also become acquainted with science early in their lives since scientific understanding underpins the progress of the human race.\n\nAfter Priestley moved to Birmingham in 1780, he encouraged the town's children to play with his apparatus and ask questions about his laboratory: the Priestley home became a place of scientific education for the town's children. Priestley's rain gauge and \"perambulator\" (a wheelbarrow for recording distances) delighted them. The boys often played with his air-gun, aiming at a wig of Priestley's which he had fastened to a post. Priestley designed magic lantern shows for them and shocked them with his electrical machine.\n\nIn 1765, Priestley dedicated his \"Essay on a Course of Liberal Education for Civil and Active Life\" (1765), to the governing board of Warrington Academy. In it he argues that young people's education should anticipate their practical needs, something he accused the current universities, Dissenting and Establishment alike, of failing to do. In Priestley's eyes, the contemporary focus on a traditional classical education prevented students from acquiring useful skills. This principle of utility guided his unusual curricular recommendations. He proposed that students study English and the modern languages instead of the classical languages, learn practical mathematics, read modern rather than ancient history, and study the constitution and laws of England. He believed that these topics would prepare his students for the commercial middle-class life that most of them would live; he did not believe that the poor should receive this same education, arguing \"it could be of no service to their country, and often a real detriment to themselves.\" In 1766 Warrington Academy replaced its old classical curriculum with Priestley's new liberal arts model. Some scholars of education have argued that this work and his later \"Miscellaneous Observations relating to Education\" (1778) (often reprinted with the \"Essay on Education\") made Priestley the \"most considerable English writer on educational philosophy\" between John Locke and Herbert Spencer.\n\nPriestley's first successful educational venture was the establishment of a local school in Nantwich. Believing that all students should have a good grasp of the English language and its grammar before learning any other language and dismayed at the quality of the instruction manuals available, Priestley wrote his own textbook: \"The Rudiments of English Grammar\" (1761). The book was very successful—it was reprinted for over fifty years. Its humor may have contributed to its popularity; for example, Priestley illustrated the \"couplet\" with this rhyme:\n\nPriestley also quoted from the most famous English authors, encouraging the middle-class association between reading and pleasure, a reading that would also, Priestley hoped, foster morality. Priestley's innovations in the teaching and description of English grammar, particularly his efforts to disassociate it from Latin grammar, made his textbook revolutionary and have led twentieth-century scholars to describe him as \"one of the great grammarians of his time.\" \"Rudiments\" influenced all of the major grammarians of the late eighteenth century: Robert Lowth, James Harris, John Horne Tooke and even the American Noah Webster. The resounding success of Priestley's book was one of the reasons that Warrington Academy offered him a teaching position in 1761.\n\nPriestley's philosophy was founded on the fervent belief that a thorough understanding of history was necessary not only to worldly success but also to spiritual growth. He wrote: \"my view was, not merely to make history intelligible to persons who may choose to read it for amusement, but . . . to facilitate its subserviency to the highest uses to which it can be applied: to contribute to its forming the able statesman and the intelligent and useful citizen.\" His abiding interest in history, particularly modern history, sets Priestley apart from his contemporaries. Priestley was the first person to advocate the serious study of modern history; no other British university was teaching the subject at the time and Oxford would not begin until 1841.\n\nWhile at Warrington Academy, Priestley gave a series of lectures on history and government; in 1788 he finally published them as \"Lectures on History and General Policy\". They cover a wide array of topics—\"forms of government, the feudal system, the rise of corporations, law, agriculture, commerce, the arts, finance and taxation, colonies, manners, population, war and peace\"—demonstrating how all-encompassing Priestley believed the study of history to be. In this text, he narrates a version of history in which all events are \"an exhibition of the ways of God;\" studying history and nature, according to Priestley, \"leads us to the knowledge of his perfections and of his will.\" Understanding history thus allows one to comprehend the natural laws God established and the perfection towards which they allow the world to tend. This millennial outlook is tied together with Priestley's belief in scientific progress and the improvement of the human race. Priestley maintained that each age improves upon the previous one and studying history allows people to see and participate in that progress. In his \"Essay on the First Principles of Government\" (1768) he writes:\n\nHighly as we think of the \"wisdom of our ancestors\" we justly think of ourselves, of the present age, wiser and . . . must see that we can . . . improve upon institutions that have been transmitted to us. Let us not doubt but that every generation in posterity will be as much superior to us in political, and all kinds of knowledge, and that they will be able to improve upon the best civil and religious institutions that we can prescribe for them. [Priestley's emphasis]\n\nThis millennial conception of history was in direct contrast to the two dominant historical paradigms of the time: Edward Gibbon's decline narrative found in his \"Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" and David Hume's cyclical narrative found in his \"History of England\".\n\nUnlike Gibbon and Hume, Priestley did not limit himself to narrating a version of history in these \"Lectures\"; he also presented a method for historical research and was one of the first to argue for the primacy of original documents in the study of history. He also contended that much could be learned from \"material evidence\" of former civilizations, such as \"ancient coins, medals and inscriptions,\" as well as \"exchequer rolls, public and private ledger books, letters, diaries, monetary, financial and exchange systems, systems of fortifications and city plans . . . [in addition to] ballads and works of fiction.\" The book was well received and was employed by many educational institutions, such as the Dissenting academy at Hackney, Brown, Princeton, Yale and Cambridge.\n\nThe theory underpinning Priestley's millennial view of history and his educational philosophy, was David Hartley's theory of association. Hartley's associationism, an expansion of John Locke's theories in \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" (1690) and laid out in \"Observations on Man\" (1749), postulated that the human mind operated according to natural laws and that the most important law for the formation of the self was \"associationism.\" For Hartley, associationism was a physical process: vibrations in the physical world traveled through the nerves attached to people's sense organs and ended up in their brains. The brain connected the vibrations of whatever sensory input it was receiving with whatever feelings or ideas that the brain was simultaneously \"thinking.\" These \"associations\" were impossible to avoid, formed as they were simply by experiencing the world; they were also the foundation of a person's character. Locke famously warns against letting \"a foolish maid\" convince a child that \"goblins and sprites\" are associated with the darkness, for \"darkness shall ever afterwards bring with it those frightful ideas, and they shall be so joined, that he can no more bear the one than the other.\" Associationism provided the scientific basis for Priestley's belief that man is \"perfectible\" and served as the foundation for all of his pedagogical innovations.\n\nBecause Priestley viewed education as one of the primary forces shaping a person's character as well as the basis of morality, he, unusually for his time, promoted the education of women. Alluding to the language of Locke's \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\", he wrote: \"certainly, the minds of women are capable of the same improvement, and the same furniture, as those of men.\" He argued that if women were to care for children and be intellectually stimulating companions for their husbands, they had to be well-educated. Although Priestley advocated education for middle-class women, he did not extend this logic to the poor.\n\nAs a supplement to his lectures on history, Priestley also designed and published \"A Chart of Biography\" (1765) and a \"New Chart of History\" (1769) (which he dedicated to Benjamin Franklin). These charts and their accompanying \"Descriptions\" would allow students, Priestley said, to \"trace out distinctly the dependence of events to distribute them into such periods and divisions as shall lay the whole claim of past transactions in a just and orderly manner.\"\n\nThe \"Chart of Biography\" covers a vast timespan, from 1200 BC to 1800 AD, and includes two thousand names. Priestley organized his list into six categories: Statesman and Warriors; Divines and Metaphysicians; Mathematicians and Physicians (natural philosophers were placed here); Poets and Artists; Orators and Critics (prose fiction authors were placed here); and Historians and Antiquarians (lawyers were placed here). Priestley's \"principle of selection\" was fame, not merit; therefore, as he mentions, the chart is a reflection of current opinion. He also wanted to ensure that his readers would recognize the entires on the chart. Priestley had difficulty assigning his all of his people to individual categories; he attempted to list them in the category under which their most important work had been done. Machiavelli is therefore listed as a historian rather than a statesman and Cicero is listed as a statesman instead of an orator. The chart was also arranged in order of importance; \"statesmen are placed on the lower margin, where they are easier to see, because they are the names most familiar to readers.\"\n\nThe \"Chart of History\" lists events in 106 separate locations; it illustrates Priestley's belief that the entire world's history was significant, a relatively new development in the eighteenth century, which had begun with Voltaire and William Robertson. The world's history is divided up into the following geographical categories: Scandinavia, Poland, Russia, Great Britain, Spain, France, Italy, Turkey in Europe, Turkey in Asia, Germany, Persia, India, China, Africa and America. Priestley aimed to show the history of empires and the passing of power; the subtitle of the \"Description\" that accompanied the chart was \"A View of the Principle Revolutions of Empire that have taken place in the World\" and he wrote that:\n\nThe capital use [of the \"Charts\" was as] a most excellent mechanical help to the knowledge of history, impressing the imagination indelibly with a just image of the rise, progress, extent, duration, and contemporary state of all the considerable empires that have ever existed in the world.\n\nAs Arthur Sheps in his article about the \"Charts\" explains, \"the horizontal line conveys an idea of the duration of fame, influence, power and domination. A vertical reading conveys an impression of the contemporaneity of ideas, events and people. The number or density of entries . . . tells us about the vitality of any age.\" Voids in the chart indicated intellectual Dark Ages, for example. Both \"Charts\" were popular for decades—the \"A New Chart of History\" went through fifteen editions by 1816. The trustees of Warrington were so impressed with Priestley's lectures and charts that they arranged for the University of Edinburgh to grant him a Doctor of Law degree in 1764.\n\nPriestley pondered what form the best religious education would take throughout his life. In the 1760s, when he was a student at Daventry Academy, he imbibed the pedagogical principles of its founder, Philip Doddridge; although he was dead, Doddridge's emphasis on academic rigor and freedom of thought lived on at the school and impressed Priestley. These ideals would always be a part of Priestley's educational programs. He began writing one of these while still at Daventry, the \"Institutes of Natural and Revealed Religion\". However, he did not publish the work until 1772, when he was at Leeds. In an effort to increase and stabilize membership at his church there, he taught three religious education classes. He subdivided the young people of the congregation into three categories: young men from 18-30 to whom he taught \"the elements of natural and revealed religion\" (young women may or may not be included in this group); children under 14 to whom he taught \"the first elements of religious knowledge by way of a short catechism in the plainest and most familiar language possible\"; and \"an intermediate class\" to whom he taught \"knowledge of the Scriptures only.\" Unlike the later Sunday schools established by Robert Raikes, Priestley aimed his classes at middle-class Rational Dissenters; he wanted to teach them \"the principles of natural religion and the evidences and doctrine of revelation in a regular and systematic course,\" something their parents could not provide.\n\nPriestley wrote texts for the courses he envisioned: \"A Catechism for Children and Young Persons\" (1767), which went through eleven English-language editions; and \"A Scripture Catechism, consisting of a Series of Questions, with References to the Scriptures instead of Answers\" (1772), which went through six British editions by 1817. He aimed to write non-sectarian \"Catechisms\", but in this he failed. He offended many orthodox readers by focusing on God's benevolence instead of on Adam's sin and Christ's atonement. Priestley implemented this same system of religious instruction over a decade later in Birmingham, when he became a minister at New Meeting.\nFor a complete bibliography of Priestley's works, see the list of works by Joseph Priestley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3956818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3956818", "title": "Keith O'Brien", "text": "Keith O'Brien\n\nKeith Michael Patrick O'Brien (17 March 1938 – 19 March 2018) was a Scottish Catholic cardinal. He was the Archbishop of Saint Andrews and Edinburgh from 1985 to 2013.\n\nO'Brien was the leader of the Catholic Church in Scotland and had been the head of its conference of bishops until he stepped down as archbishop in February 2013. O'Brien's resignation followed publication of allegations he had engaged in inappropriate and predatory sexual conduct with priests and seminarians under his jurisdiction and abused his power.<ref Name=\"Devenney18/05/2013\"></ref> O'Brien was opposed to homosexuality, which he described as \"moral degradation\", and a vehement opponent of same-sex marriage.\n\nOn 20 March 2015, the Vatican announced that though he remained a member of the College of Cardinals O'Brien would not exercise his rights or duties as a cardinal, in particular voting in papal conclaves. O'Brien died after a fall on 19 March 2018, two days after his 80th birthday.\n\nO’Brien was born at Ballycastle, in County Antrim, Northern Ireland, on 17 March 1938. After primary education in Ballycastle, his family moved to Scotland where his father was serving with the Royal Navy at Faslane. O'Brien initially attended St Stephen's Primary School, Dalmuir before continuing to secondary school at St Patrick's High School, Dumbarton. His family then moved to Edinburgh, where he completed his secondary education at Holy Cross Academy.\n\nO'Brien studied at the University of Edinburgh where he gained a Bachelor of Science degree in chemistry in 1959 (and later a Diploma in Education in 1966). His studies for the priesthood were at St Andrew's College, Drygrange, Roxburghshire, and he was ordained priest on 3 April 1965 by his predecessor, Cardinal Gordon Gray. Initially, serving as curate at Holy Cross, Edinburgh from 1965 until 1966, he completed his teacher training certificate at Moray House College of Education. From 1966 to 1971, he was employed by Fife County Council as a teacher of mathematics and science; he also served as chaplain to St Columba's Secondary School, initially in Cowdenbeath and then in Dunfermline, while assisting at St Bride's Parish, Cowdenbeath.\n\nO'Brien was then moved to full-time parish apostolate in St Patrick's, Kilsyth from 1972 until 1975 and then St Mary's, Bathgate from 1975 until 1978. He served as spiritual director to the students at St Andrew's College, Drygrange from 1978 until 1980 then as Rector of St Mary's College, Blairs, the junior seminary near Aberdeen, from 1980 until 1985.\n\nO’Brien was nominated Archbishop of St Andrews and Edinburgh on 30 May 1985 and was consecrated by Cardinal Gray, then Archbishop Emeritus of St Andrews and Edinburgh, at St Mary's Cathedral, Edinburgh on 5 August 1985. Pope John Paul II created him Cardinal-Priest of Ss Joachim and Anne ad Tusculanum on 21 October 2003.\n\nO'Brien was made Bailiff Grand Cross of Honour and Devotion of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta in 2005, appointed Grand Prior of the Scottish Lieutenancy of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem in 2001 and appointed Knight Grand Cross (KGCHS) of that order in 2003.\n\nIn 2004 O'Brien was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from St Francis Xavier University, Antigonish, Nova Scotia, Canada, an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from the University of St Andrews, and an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from the University of Edinburgh. In 2015 there were calls for the honorary degree from St Andrews University to be revoked due to admission of sexual impropriety. Professor Manfredi La Manna wrote, \"I, for one, would not recognise as a colleague someone who admitted abusing his position of power for sexual gratification with subordinates.\" The University decided against this noting, \"(...) that revocation cannot change or ameliorate the wrongs of the past and that, notwithstanding the very real hurt and loss caused by the actions of the honorand, it would be no more than an empty gesture.\"\n\nO'Brien was Apostolic Administrator of the Diocese of Argyll and the Isles from 1996 to 1999, when Bishop Ian Murray took over the diocese. O'Brien took part in the 2005 Papal Conclave which elected Pope Benedict XVI. In anticipation of the 2010 visit of Pope Benedict to England and Scotland, O'Brien and Vincent Nichols, Archbishop of Westminster, said that the crisis involving Seán Brady, Archbishop of Armagh, over the priest Brendan Smyth and other clerical abuse charges is one for the Irish Catholic Church and should not overshadow Benedict's visit. O'Brien and Nichols were asked whether the pope would respond to charges made against the church about clerical sex abuse during his four-day visit, the first papal visit to the UK since John Paul II in 1982. O'Brien said he did not know; Nichols said English, Welsh and Scottish bishops had \"robust\" rules in place to protect children. Campaigners for victims of abuse want an investigation of the way O'Brien dealt with all allegations of abuse while he was leader due to O'Brien's sexual misconduct admission. Mario Conti, Archbishop emeritus of Glasgow, said all the Scottish Catholic bishops except O'Brien cooperated over an independent inquiry into the handling of child abuse in Scotland between 1952 and 2012 with the results to be published. The inquiry was delayed because O'Brien and only O'Brien withdrew cooperation.\n\nWhen O'Brien announced on 25 February 2013 that Pope Benedict had accepted his resignation as archbishop, he said he would not exercise his right to participate in the conclave in March to elect Benedict's successor. On 20 March 2015, Pope Francis accepted O'Brien's renunciation of all duties as cardinal, an event extremely rare in Church history. Though he remained a cardinal until his death in 2018, he no longer participated in any public, religious or civil events.\n\nAfter his creation as cardinal, O'Brien was appointed a member of the Pontifical Council for Social Communications and also a member of the Pontifical Council for the Pastoral Care of Migrants and Itinerant People. He was President of the Bishops' Conference of Scotland and fulfilled various engagements at the request of other members of the Conference. He was sometimes referred to as the \"Primate of Scotland\", however this title or position has never existed.\n\nO'Brien tendered his resignation from the governance of the Archdiocese of St Andrews and Edinburgh to the Pope some time in 2012, in view of his 75th birthday in March 2013; the Pope accepted it \"nunc pro tunc\" on 13 November 2012 and decided it would become effective on 25 February 2013. He remained a cardinal. The announcement of his resignation followed allegations initially in \"The Observer\" newspaper that O'Brien had engaged in inappropriate sexual conduct with junior clergy. The Pope appointed Philip Tartaglia as temporary apostolic administrator in O'Brien's place. In July, Leo Cushley, a priest from Motherwell, was named to succeed O’Brien as archbishop.\n\nIn 2013 allegations became public that O'Brien had engaged in inappropriate, sometimes predatory sexual activity from the 1980s to 2003.\n\nOn 23 February 2013 \"The Observer\" reported that O'Brien had been accused of inappropriate sexual behaviour involving four men (three serving priests, and one former priest) within the Diocese of St Andrews and Edinburgh dating back to the 1980s. The former priest resigned the priesthood when O’Brien became a bishop and stated, \"I knew then he would always have power over me. (…) I left to preserve my integrity.\" It was reported that one complainant needed long term counselling due to the actions of O'Brien.\n\nOne of the four, referred to only as \"Priest C\", alleges that the degree of control a superior has over subordinate priests made it hard for him to refuse O'Brien's demands. \"He [the bishop above a priest] has immense power over you. He can move you, freeze you out, bring you into the fold ... he controls every aspect of your life.\"\n\nThe complaint demanding O'Brien's immediate resignation was lodged with the Vatican's ambassador to the United Kingdom and there were efforts to silence at least one critic.\n\nO'Brien initially contested the allegations. According to the BBC, a source within the church said that O'Brien \"doesn't know who his accusers are and doesn't know what they're accusing him of\". On 24 February 2013 he did not attend a special service to celebrate the eight-year tenure of Pope Benedict XVI at St Mary's Cathedral, Edinburgh. It was widely reported that he had asked for legal advice and been advised not to attend. On 25 February 2013 it was announced that O'Brien's previously submitted resignation as archbishop would take effect that same day and a temporary apostolic administrator was appointed in his place. O'Brien said that he would not participate in the oncoming conclave, although entitled to do so. O'Brien then made no further public appearance until early May 2013.\n\nOn 3 March 2013, the Scottish Catholic Media Office released a statement from O'Brien in which he said \"I ... admit that there have been times that my sexual conduct has fallen below the standards expected of me as a priest, archbishop and cardinal.\" He said he intended to retire permanently from the public life of the church. Archbishop Philip Tartaglia, temporary successor to O'Brien, said the \"credibility and moral authority\" of the church had been damaged.\n\nLater in March 2013 a former priest announced his intention to sue O'Brien, saying O'Brien had groped and kissed him as a 19-year-old seminarian in the 1980s.\n\nO'Brien was further accused of trying to grope a priest in 2003 in Rome at a drinks party to celebrate his becoming a cardinal. It was also alleged that O'Brien had been in a long-term physical relationship with one of the complainants. It is assumed that O'Brien remained sexually active until 2009 at least.\n\nO'Brien faced allegations of a “culture of cronyism” within his archdiocese and that this made him less likely to challenge priests to whom he had made advances.\n\nIn 2015 \"The Glasgow Herald\" reported allegations that in at least 40 cases young clerics were encouraged to let O'Brien hear their confessions, and the religious act was used for sexual grooming. It was claimed as common knowledge that O'Brien was gay, but there was allegedly reluctance to accept O'Brien's actions as a sexual predator. Victims of O'Brien's sexual abuse felt unable to complain because within the church only a pope has ever been able to discipline a cardinal. After publication of the McLellan Report in 2015 Andrew McLellan said the church's treatment of O'Brien showed that secrecy is still an \"important part of the atmosphere\" within the church.\n\nOn 27 April 2013 \"The Scotsman\" reported that Cardinal Marc Ouellet would head an investigation into O'Brien, and that appointment of Scottish bishops had been halted until the inquiry was completed. This contradicted another report suggesting that the Vatican would not hold a formal investigation or publish any formal report because \"The Church doesn't work that way.\" No decision had been made to demote or laicise O'Brien.\n\nO'Brien returned to Scotland and attempted to settle in the church-owned cottage he had planned as his retirement home in Dunbar, East Lothian. One of his accusers, a former seminarian, stated, \"Keith O'Brien is giving the impression he wants a nice peaceful little retirement now. My experience hasn’t left me for decades and as far as I’m concerned this brings things very much back into focus. I have an issue with Keith O’Brien and it needs to be dealt with.\" There were fears the cardinal's visibility would harm the church further. On 15 March 2013, it was confirmed that the Vatican had ordered O'Brien to leave Scotland, and he left for months of \"prayer and penance\". According to \"The Washington Post\", \"The statement didn't specify that the decision was imposed on O'Brien by the Vatican as punishment, and in fact went out of its way to suggest that the decision was O'Brien's. But in the past, wayward priests have been sanctioned by the Vatican with punishments of 'prayer and penance', and the statement made clear Francis supported the move and that the Holy See would decide his future fate.\"\n\nThe Vatican stated on 15 May 2013 that O'Brien \"will be leaving Scotland for several months for the purpose of spiritual renewal, prayer and penance\" and \"Any decision regarding future arrangements for His Eminence [Cardinal Keith O'Brien] shall be agreed with the Holy See.\"\n\nSupporters of O'Brien objected to the church requiring O'Brien to leave Scotland; Canon John Creanor threatened legal action to prevent O'Brien's \"forced exile\", and said he had a legal team ready. Richard Holloway, former Bishop of Edinburgh of the Scottish Episcopal Church, said that forcing O'Brien into exile from Scotland would breach international law. Holloway likened O'Brien's forced exile to the tactics of \"extraordinary rendition\" (extrajudicial transfer) of the US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).\n\nThe four complainants said that O'Brien needed psychological counselling rather than prayer and penance. One accusing priest said, \"Keith is extremely manipulative and needs help to be challenged out of his denial. If he does not receive treatment, I believe he is still a danger to himself and to others.\" The four accusers believed there was a smokescreen, with the full story untold, and wanted an investigation to reveal the extent of O'Brien's actions.\n\nThroughout the scandal, the Catholic Church in Scotland failed to act. O'Brien was still Britain's most senior Catholic. According to the director of communications of the Catholic media office (which was largely unavailable for official comment), Peter Kearney, only Rome could handle the O'Brien affair; nobody in Scotland had authority to challenge a cardinal.\n\nAccording to Catherine Deveney writing in The Observer, Archbishop Tartaglia who was temporary leader of St Andrews and Edinburgh following O'Brien's resignation, failed to confront the issue, and behind the scenes \"church insiders\" were critical; one told her that \"He is completely lacking in leadership qualities\". Kearney told the Observer there could be no Scottish investigation because the nuncio had rightly not identified the complainants. But he had; Kearney apparently didn't know that Joseph Toal, bishop of Argyll and the Isles, had been given names and asked to be a contact point.\n\nDeveney said that this issue is no longer about personal failure, but systemic failure, and reports that theologian Werner Jeanrond said \"As a church, we have failed to come to terms with homosexuality. The highest clerical representative of the church is himself a victim of the system which didn't allow him to own his homosexuality.\" She adds that there are many other scandals involving Scottish clergy, including at least one bishop; misdeeds include sexual misconduct, heavy drinking, payoffs to cover scandals and serious abuse, and says that \"O'Brien knows where the bodies lie. And the hierarchy knows he knows.\" She says that this issue is not about Scottish clergy, but is worldwide.\n\nIn July 2013 O'Brien was reported to be in a monastery in Europe or an enclosed abbey in the English Midlands. In November 2013 there was a report that O'Brien would face no further punishment, which disappointed alleged victims and victims' groups.\n\nAfter some delay, it was reported in The Observer on 23 June 2013 that the Vatican had decided to hold an apostolic visitation. This is a formal high-level inspection into the affair, in which the \"visitator\" is given authority directly by the pope. In this case the visitator was archbishop of St Andrews and Edinburgh, who had not yet been appointed at the time. Papal nuncio Antonio Mennini told one of the complainants, a former priest known as \"Lenny\", of the decision. Anyone affected would be able to give evidence; if there was considered to be sufficient evidence, a deeper process would take place in Rome. Lenny was relieved that the facts would finally be examined, but said that the visitation also had to examine \"whether any promotions were awarded to the cardinal’s cronies\".\n\nAccording to the article, senior figures in Rome said the visitation would also deal with the more general accusations of moral failings in the church in Scotland. There was criticism of the choice of O'Brien's successor as Archbishop of Edinburgh as visitator; Tom Doyle, a canon lawyer who had worked at the nunciature in Washington and later represented Catholic abuse victims all over the world, said that the whole point was for someone from outside to investigate, and that the choice of O'Brien's successor would make the church \"look like fools\". Doyle said that dealing with a previous case, widespread child abuse in Ireland, by an apostolic visitation had been a \"total farce\", and that only totally independent investigations have elicited significant truth in similar cases, as with (non-ecclesiastical) grand juries in the United States and government statutory commissions in Ireland.<ref name=\"Scotsman 24/6/13\"></ref>\n\nThe complainants have been negotiating with Archbishop Leo Cushley but have also appealed to Pope Francis. They would like an investigation into the way the diocese was governed, the manner of O'Brien's appointment, whether close associates were appointed to positions of power and also the extent of O'Brien's predatory behaviour. Cushley promised to hand over the requests personally but discouraged public discussion of the case.<ref name=\"Deveney01/13/2014\"></ref> During O'Brien's lifetime a Canonical trial remained possible but unlikely.<ref name=\"Scotsman23/03/2014\"></ref> \"Lenny\" claims the finances of the Archdiocese of St Andrews and Edinburgh under O'Brien are being investigated internally to find if there were irregularities. If this were not done he would have involved the charity regulator. He claims O'Brien bought a jet ski for a friend and the source of the money is unclear. The church has neither confirmed nor denied this.\n\nO'Brien had since January 2014 been living, initially incognito, in a home provided by the Catholic Church in the village of Ellington, Northumberland, fifty miles south of the Scottish border. O'Brien later moved to Newcastle.\n\nCharles Scicluna investigated O'Brien in April 2014 and such an investigation of a cardinal appears unprecedented. There are concerns that the report, allegedly \"hot enough to burn the varnish\" from the Pope's desk, remains unpublished.\n\nFollowing Scicluna's apostolic visitation, the Holy See announced on 20 March 2015 that Pope Francis had \"accept[ed] the resignation of Cardinal Keith Patrick O’Brien from the rights and duties of a Cardinal\". A statement for the Catholic Church in Scotland confirmed that O'Brien would continue to live outside Scotland until such time as his age and infirmity required that situation to be reviewed. He retained the title of Cardinal, but did not any longer carry out the functions of a cardinal and was only allowed to wear a cardinal's robes in private. According to the Holy See Press Office O'Brien would not take part in papal elections, act as papal adviser, or take part in Vatican congregations and councils and loses other roles of a cardinal. Journalist David Gibson wrote that \"Those developments, [Scicluna's unpublished report, the home bought for O'Brien, that O'Brien was not officially punished] plus the fact that O'Brien can keep the title of cardinal ... may also keep the issue on the boil rather than cooling it off.\" The ecclesiastical historian Christopher Bellitto said, \"What's odd, in this papacy especially, is that O'Brien loses the power, but not the pomp, ... a red hat is still a red hat, even if there is no punch behind it.\"\n\nThe Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests is concerned that the transparency Pope Francis promised is absent and the cardinal's wrong or abusive actions have been kept secret. There is further concern that other clerics failed to disclose abuse by O'Brien which they reasonably should have known or suspected. Abusive bishops have resigned in the past, but action against complicit clerics and bishops who conceal abuse would be a helpful innovation because it would help prevent further abuse and concealment.\n\nO'Brien said, while criticising a parliamentary bill on embryology in 2008, that he carried an organ donor card. O'Brien suffered from heart problems and was fitted with a pacemaker after complaining of dizzy spells and fainting prior to Passion Sunday Mass in March 2008. When he announced that he would not attend the 2013 conclave he said \"Approaching the age of 75 and at times in indifferent health, I tendered my resignation as Archbishop of St Andrews and Edinburgh to Pope Benedict XVI some months ago.\"\n\nO'Brien died after a fall on 19 March 2018, two days after his 80th birthday.\n\nO'Brien was often forthright in his political and spiritual views. In 1999, at the European Synod of Bishops, O'Brien declared who he saw fit to be the next Archbishop of Westminster, following the death of Cardinal Hume. He named his candidate, Timothy Radcliffe, Master General of the Dominican order (Black Friars). At the synod, Radcliffe had made an appeal to O'Brien, saying that there was a crisis of authority going in the church, but the answer could not be \"more\" emphasis on authority. In the presence of the Pope, Radcliffe went on: the church should not only speak \"about\" the poor, the divorced people, women who had had abortions, homosexuals, but should also take at heart \"their\" experiences, eat their bread, take what they had to offer. \"They'll blame us being associated with the wrong people but we have a good precedent.\"\n\nIn 2011 he criticised \"aggressive secularism\" denouncing what he claimed was the way Christians had been prevented from acting in accordance with their beliefs. O'Brien said aggressive secularism threatened the Christian heritage and he wanted religion to remain in the public sphere. Specifically legislation requiring Christians to tolerate homosexuality was a type of secularism O'Brien opposed, and he called on Christians of all denominations to unite in combating secularism.\nReferring to equality legislation which prevents discrimination against homosexuals, he [O'Brien] said Christians faced being sidelined in British society because they were not willing to publicly endorse lifestyles that run contrary to their belief system.\n\nHis [O'Brien's Easter 2011] homily included instances where Christians had fallen foul of equality legislation, preventing discrimination against gay people, and swiftly drew fire from groups campaigning against religious privilege in public life.\n\nEvan Harris of the National Secular Society and the British Humanist Association called O'Brien's statements \"paranoid and unjustified\".\n\nBefore becoming a cardinal, O'Brien had been regarded as \"liberal\" on the issue of homosexuality, noting the significant number of homosexual priests ministering within the Catholic Church. However, in December 2004 he told members of the Scottish Parliament that homosexuals were \"captives of sexual aberrations\", comparing homosexuals to prisoners in Saughton jail; and later referred to homosexuality as a \"moral degradation\". But O'Brien did rebuke Bishop Joseph Devine in 2005 who had suggested that homosexuals should not be allowed to teach in Catholic schools commenting, \"I don't have a problem with the personal life of a person as long as they are not flaunting their sexuality.\"\n\nIn January 2006 he criticised Westminster MPs over the introduction of civil partnerships in the UK, and Holyrood members over the liberalisation of divorce laws in Scotland, In July 2006 he opposed proposals to change the law which would require Catholic adoption agencies to place children with homosexuals in the same way as with heterosexuals, calling them totalitarian.\n\nIn December 2011, O'Brien reiterated the Catholic Church's continued opposition to civil partnerships and suggested that there should be no laws that \"facilitate\" same-sex relationships, saying that\nIn 2012, O'Brien criticised in \"The Telegraph\" government proposals to introduce same-sex marriage, saying it was \"madness\", and would \"redefine society since the institution of marriage is one of the fundamental building blocks of society\", and thus shame the United Kingdom. Conservative MP Margot James, who was considered one of the most influential gay women in 2009, called these comments \"scaremongering\" and said: \"I think it is a completely unacceptable way for a prelate to talk. I think that the government is not trying to force Catholic churches to perform gay marriages at all. It is a purely civil matter.\" The Deputy Leader of the Labour Party, Harriet Harman, said that, \"We have had prejudice, discrimination and homophobia for hundreds of years. That doesn't make it right [...] I don't want anybody to feel that this is a licence for whipping up prejudice.\" Dan Hodges wrote: \"I can't remember the last time I read a more morally and intellectually bankrupt rant from a senior member of the clergy.\"\n\nThe LGBT rights campaigners Stonewall awarded O'Brien \"Bigot of the Year\" at their annual awards in 2012. The award was criticised by the first minister of Scotland, Alex Salmond, as being \"clearly wrong\" and \"not conducive to a proper and dignified debate on the important issue of equality in Scotland\".\n\nOn 22 February 2013, in an interview with the BBC, O'Brien said he was open to the possibility of removing the requirement of celibacy in the priesthood.\n\nIn May 2007 O'Brien urged Roman Catholics to reject political candidates who support what he called the \"social evil\" of abortion, and said that such Catholic politicians should not expect to remain full members of the church.\nDuring March 2008, O'Brien highlighted the issue of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Bill being debated in Parliament, denouncing the government for a \"monstrous attack on human rights\" through its \"evil\" endorsement of \"Frankenstein\" experiments. Some scientists suggested that he intentionally used inflammatory language to stir up opposition to the bill; others argued he was sticking up for morals and forced the Government to allow MPs to vote freely on the issue. (Gordon Brown had originally imposed a three-line whip on Labour MPs, meaning they had to back the bill, regardless of personal convictions.)\n\nO'Brien himself narrated a five-minute video recording in which he stated the \"many, many concerns\" of the Catholic Church concerning the bill which was to be voted on in Parliament. It was posted on YouTube, and sent as a DVD to every member of Parliament. In the video O'Brien made clear he was not against medical research, and supported research with non-embryonic stem cells, but was opposed to using embryos which would later be destroyed. He expressed the church's concerns over \"human-animal hybrids\".\n\nIn February 2010 the Secretary of State for Scotland, Jim Murphy, said in the House of Commons that faith was \"at the very foundations of the Labour Party\" and encouraged openness to religion in public life. O'Brien responded by saying he \"welcomed the sentiment\" but pointed out that \"a tangible example by the Government over the last decade that it acknowledged or endorsed religious values would also have been welcomed. Instead we have witnessed this Government undertake a systematic and unrelenting attack on family values.\" O'Brien said to the leader of the Scottish Labour Party, Iain Gray, \"I hope he [Pope Benedict XVI] gives you hell [during his September 2010 visit] for what has happened over the past 10 years.\"\n\nIn March 2011 O'Brien called British foreign policy \"anti-Christian\" for greatly increasing aid to Pakistan without requiring any commitment from the Pakistani government to religious freedom for Christians and other minorities. He made this statement in the wake of the assassination of Pakistani minister Shahbaz Bhatti, who had spoken out against the country's blasphemy law.\n\nO'Brien has called for a 310-year-old law banning Catholics from taking the throne to be repealed. He said the Act of Settlement of 1701 was hampering efforts to curb sectarianism. Prime Minister David Cameron said that \"in principle\" he supported reforming the law on royal succession to remove the ban on Catholics, or people married to Catholics, ascending the throne.\n\nIn an interview with the University of St Andrews philosopher John Haldane, published in the \"Catholic Herald\" in October 2006, O'Brien stated that he would be \"happy\" if Scots voted for independence and predicted that independence is coming \"before too long\". He drew parallels with the independence of the Roman Catholic Church in Scotland: \"it is difficult to argue that ecclesiastical independence is acceptable but political independence is not\".\n\nIn 2011 Keith O'Brien preached a homily including the quote below.\n\n"}
{"id": "57182216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57182216", "title": "Leonardo da Vinci (video game)", "text": "Leonardo da Vinci (video game)\n\nLeonardo da Vinci is a 1997 interactive CD-ROM game by Corbis, consisting of a \"computerized viewing tool which permits the user to examine English translations of the Codex [Leicester] superimposed onto facsimiles of its pages\". The tool, known as Codescope, is licensed by Corbis.\n\nIn 1994, Bill Gates acquired the Codex Leicester. In 1997, Gates' privately held company Corbis released a CD-Rom version of the manuscript. On October 25, 1996 it was announced the game would be ready for the holiday season (Microsoft Windows in November and Macintosh in December), but this was ultimately postponed. The game was one in a line of educational/entertainment CD-ROMs with subjects including Paul Cézanne, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and the Manhattan Project. The game's promotion was kick-started by being featured in a Da Vinci exhibition at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City.\n\nThe title contains the Codex Leceister, as well as a virtual gallery of Leonardo’s major paintings, plus his drawings, manuscripts, and lost works. Players can view the Codex in the original mirror-script Italian, a reversed “normal” view, a transcription of the original Italian, and a modern English translation. \"Leonardo Da Vinci\" is a coffee-table-book type game.\n\nLawyer Gary L. Wolfstone deemed the project \"impressive\" and \"interpretive\". \"Computer Shopper\" praised the title's ease of use and slick production values. \"The Economist\" felt the game \"exemplif[ies] the strengths and weaknesses of multimedia at its current, immature state of development\". \"ATPM\" felt the game would hold the interest of both novice and scholar. \"The New York Times\" deemed it one of the better art-history CD-ROMs, despite some oversights in features and interface. \"Wired\" explained that the experience of playing the game was \"as if Leonardo can suddenly speak\". \"de Volkskrant\" felt that the game supported Gates' thesis that computer technology could be a form of art. \"The Wall Street Journal\" wrote that while Da Vinci is a popular subject for video games, this title \"beats them all\".\n\nCorbis did not earn a profit from the game.\n\n"}
{"id": "42109449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42109449", "title": "List of archives in Bolivia", "text": "List of archives in Bolivia\n\nThis is list of archives in Bolivia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21442641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21442641", "title": "List of forestry universities and colleges", "text": "List of forestry universities and colleges\n\nThis is a list of tertiary educational institutions around the world offering bachelor's, master's or doctoral degrees in forestry or related fields. Where noted, the country's accreditation board standard has been used and cited. They are grouped by continent.\n\n\"(For educational institutions with forestry technician or professional certificate programs see: List of forestry technical schools.)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41554471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41554471", "title": "List of libraries in Lebanon", "text": "List of libraries in Lebanon\n\nThis is a list of libraries in Lebanon.\n\n"}
{"id": "32565090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32565090", "title": "Louisa Barwell", "text": "Louisa Barwell\n\nLouisa Mary Barwell (1800–1885) was an English musician and educational writer.\n\nBarwell was born Louisa Mary Bacon in the parish of St. Peter Mancroft, Norwich, on 4 March 1800. She was the daughter of Richard Mackenzie Bacon by his wife Jane Louisa (Noverre), born 1768, died 1808. At the age of eighteen she was associated with her father in the editorship of the \"Quarterly Musical Magazine and Review\". A talented musician with a fine voice, she played from score at sight.\n\nAfter her marriage with John Barwell, wine merchant at Norwich (born 1798, died 1876), she devoted attention to educational works, developing a comprehension of child nature, physical and mental. She contributed to the \"Quarterly Journal of Education\" from about the year 1831, anticipating later views and plans of education. Her husband, who shared her interest in this subject, was largely instrumental in securing the success of a scheme by which a charity day-school for girls at Norwich was converted into an industrial training-school for girls.\n\nWith Philipp Emanuel von Fellenberg, in whose school at Hofwyl near Berne their sons were placed, the Barwells formed a close friendship. In the literary society of Norwich, as portrayed by Harriet Martineau, Mrs. Barwell held an important place. Her closest friend was Lady Noel Byron, whose correspondence with her was constant, and whose papers she arranged, in the later years of Lady Byron's life. She survived her friend nearly a quarter of a century, dying on 2 February 1885, leaving four sons and a daughter.\n\nHer publications were:\n\n"}
{"id": "58681829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58681829", "title": "Lynne McClure", "text": "Lynne McClure\n\nLynne McClure is a British mathematics educator. In 2014 she was appointed as director of Cambridge Mathematics, a program at the University of Cambridge that spans the university's mathematics and education faculties, Cambridge Assessment, and the Cambridge University Press, and is aimed at developing a flexible tool to inform new mathematics curricula for primary and secondary mathematics education.\n\nMcClure has a degree from University College London and a Postgraduate Certificate in Education from the University of Oxford, and Masters degrees from both the Open University and the University of Cambridge. After working as a primary and secondary mathematics teacher, she became principal lecturer in education at Oxford Brookes University and then at the University of Edinburgh. At Cambridge, she directed the NRICH and Underground Maths Projects before being appointed to direct Cambridge Mathematics.\n\nMcClure was president of the Mathematical Association for 2014–2015,\nand executive chair of the International Society for Design and Development in Education for 2017–2019. She has served twice on the Advisory Committee on Mathematics Education, chairs the Strategic Board of the Cambridgeshire Maths Hub and is a trustee of National Numeracy.\n"}
{"id": "39017462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39017462", "title": "Miriam Beerman", "text": "Miriam Beerman\n\nMiriam Beerman (born 1923) is an American painter and printmaker.\n\nBeerman was born in Providence, Rhode Island, where she later earned her BFA from the Rhode Island School for Design. After earning her degree, she studied with various established artists including Yasuo Kuniyoshi at the Art Students League in NYC, with Adja Yunkers at the New School for Social Research in NYC, and Stanley William Hayter at Atelier 17 in Paris, France.\n\nAlthough Beerman maintains the gestural brushstrokes of the abstract expressionists, her work focuses on bestial characters who convey the intense emotion found in her images. Her work includes automatic gestures, vivid colors, and stippled textures that help evoke the feeling of devastation. Some of her themes include biblical plagues, the Holocaust, Hiroshima, and nuclear threat.\n\nThe breadth of Beerman's career is evident through her grants, awards, and exhibitions list. Some include a CAPS grant from New York State Council on the Arts (1971), the Childe Hassam purchase award from the American Academy of Arts and Letters (1977), the Camargo Foundation Award (1980), a distinguished artist grant from the New Jersey State Council on the Arts (1987), and a 40-year retrospective of her work, held at the State Museum of New Jersey in Trenton (1991). Her work has been exhibited globally, including at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, DC, and at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York, NY.\n\nIn 2000, Beerman was an Artist's Book Resident at the Women's Studio Workshop in Rosendale, New York. During her residency, Beerman published \"Faces\", a limited-edition portfolio of eight drypoint prints with text from \"The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge\" by Rainer Maria Rilke. The images are rough, humorous and tragic, echoing the artist’s humanistic concerns.\n\nBeerman received awards and honors from Pollock Krasner Foundation, Joan Mitchell Foundation and more. She also received an alumni award from Rhode Island School of Design in 2015. In 2015 Beerman had a collage retrospective at Lawrence University. Miriam Beerman, Expressing the Chaos, a film by Jonathan Gruber, was also released in 2015. The film was shown on PBS and on Dutch and New Zealand T.V.\n"}
{"id": "12222742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12222742", "title": "Nepal College of Accountancy", "text": "Nepal College of Accountancy\n\nNational College of Accountancy is an Accountancy College in Nepal running classes for professional accountancy students like ACCA and CAT. The College is run by ACCA qualified members and is in operation since 2004. The college is registered with ACCA UK and has been accredited with Registered Tuition Provider Status.\n\nCourses offered\n\nACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, UK)\nCAT (Certified Accounting Technician)\n\n"}
{"id": "32969889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32969889", "title": "Nicolas Gouïn Dufief", "text": "Nicolas Gouïn Dufief\n\nNicolas Gouïn Dufief (c. 1776–1834) was an émigré French teacher.\n\nHe was a native of Nantes, was born in or about 1776. His father, a knight of the Order of Saint Louis, served during the revolution as a volunteer under the French princes in Germany; his mother, the Countess Victoire Aimée Libault Gouïn Dufief, was personally engaged in the many battles fought by her relative, General François de Charette, against the revolutionists, for which she was afterwards known as \"the heroine of La Vendée\". \n\nDufief, though a stripling of fifteen, joined in 1792 the royal naval corps assembled under the Charles Hector, comte d'Estaing at Enghien, and went through the campaign with his regiment in the army of the brothers of Louis XVIII until its disbandment. The same year he sought refuge in England, but soon afterwards sailed for the West Indies, and was attracted thence to Philadelphia, which he reached in July 1793. During his sojourn in America, he became acquainted with Dr. Joseph Priestley, Thomas Jefferson, and other eminent men. \nHere, too, he published an essay on \"The Philosophy of Language\", in which he first explained to the world how he was led to make those discoveries \"from which my system of universal and economical instruction derives such peculiar and manifold advantages\". \nFor nearly twenty-five years he taught French with success in America and in England, to which he returned about 1818. \n\nHe died at Pentonville, London, 12 April 1834.\n\nHis chief work is \"Nature displayed in her mode of teaching Language to Man; being a new and infallible Method of acquiring Languages with unparalleled rapidity; deduced from the analysis of the human mind, and consequently suited to every capacity: adapted to the French. To which is prefixed a development of the author's plan of tuition\", 2 volumes octavo, London, 1818, which despite its size and costliness reached a twelfth edition in the author's lifetime. Shortly before his death he completed \"A Universal, Pronouncing, and Critical French-English Dictionary\", octavo, London, 1833. He was author, too, of \"The French Self-interpreter, or Pronouncing Grammar\", duodecimo, Exeter (1820?).\n\n"}
{"id": "20961041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20961041", "title": "Petites écoles de Port-Royal", "text": "Petites écoles de Port-Royal\n\nThe Petites écoles de Port-Royal was the name given to a teaching system set up in 1637 by the intellectuals who gathered at Port-Royal-des-Champs in the middle of the 17th century at the height of the Jansenist controversy. They functioned until 1660.\n\nThe monastery of Port-Royal-des-Champs was more or less abandoned in favour of that in Paris (for health reasons - the site was malarial) when in 1637 Jean Duvergier de Hauranne, abbot of Saint-Cyran, decided to set up a school for 30 children here, headed by his friend, the priest Antoine Singlin. This school shared the building with the \"Solitaires\", intellectuals or politicians who had decided to go into retreat to perfect their spiritual life, many of whom taught at the school.\n\nIts teachers' intellectual calibre made Petites écoles de Port-Royal a place of intellectual excellence, but also of experimentation in teaching methods (based on French and not Latin and thus revolutionary for the time) and in normalization of the French language. They also withdrew from the Jesuit teaching system, which mainly taught in Latin, even when their young students had not mastered Latin. Class sizes were small (never more than 25 children) to create a teacher-pupil relationship that was very strict but also marked by trust and admiration. Discipline was very severe, but many of its teaching rules demonstrate a real concern for what would later be called child psychology.\n\nJean Racine was taught here from 1655 to 1666, and the economist Pierre Le Pesant de Boisguilbert was also taught here.\n\nIts teachers were also drawn from among the major intellectuals of the time:\n\nFrédéric Delforge, \"Les petites Ecoles de Port-Royal\", Paris Cerf, 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "23443371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23443371", "title": "Plataforma per la Llengua", "text": "Plataforma per la Llengua\n\nLa Plataforma per la Llengua (the Pro-Language Platform) is a non-governmental organisation born in 1993 in Barcelona (Catalonia), in order to defend and promote Catalan language all over the Catalan-speaking territories in the European States where it is spoken: Spain, France, Andorra and Italy. Their activities include the development of sociolinguistic studies and a constant monitoring on the status of the Catalan language, in collaboration with other organizations, foundations and public agencies. Even it is based in Barcelona, it has delegations in Valencian Community, Alghero and in several Catalan regions. Moreover, La Plataforma per la Llengua works together with some Northern Catalonia, La Franja, Andorra and Balearic Islands organisations. There are so many aims; one of them is to guarantee the linguistic rights to Catalan-speaking people and the use of Catalan language as a connexion tool in all the fields and territories where it is spoken .\n\nAs of 2016, there were 12,000 associates, more than 55,000 followers on Facebook and more than 30,000 followers on Twitter. Also, every six months, the NGO publishes a magazine called Corbella whose print run is 9,000 copies. In 2008, this magazine was awarded a prize for being the best cultural association media. The prize was awarded by the Federació d’Ateneus de Catalunya.\n\nThe Association is supported by a consultative council consisting of Salvador Cardús, Jordi Font, Josep M. López Llaví, Albert Manent, Isidor Marí, Fèlix Martí, Jordi Porta, Jordi Sànchez, Josep Mª Terricabras, Miquel Sellarès, Vicenç Villatoro, Isabel-Clara Simó, Miquel Strubell, Patrícia Gabancho and Abelard Saragossà.\n\nOn 23 September 2012, Martí Gasull i Roig, one of the organisation's founders and the main Plataforma per la Llengua coordinator, died in an accident on a mountain (Manaslu), in Nepal. Martí Gasull i Roig work’s has been appreciated many times. On 9 October 2012, Generalitat de Catalunya awarded him the posthumous title of Creu de Sant Jordi. Among posthumous prizes there are: Premi d’Obra Cultural Balear Aina Moll i Marquès a la nit de la Cultura 2012, 'El Segador de l'any' by Reagrupament, UEC and Gràcia and Barcelona local government plens municipals recognition and the Barcelona local government Medalla d'Or al Mèrit Cultural. On 15 January 2013, Plataforma per la Llengua honoured Martí Gasull Roig in the Sala Gran del Teatre Nacional de Catalunya, in Barcelona. It approved the Premi Martí Gasull i Roig basis in order to award a person or an organisation that has highlighted in the defence of Catalan language once a year.\n\nThis is the mission as defined by the organisation:\n\n\nLa Plataforma per la Llengua was born in 1993. His first public action was collecting 18,000 Coca-Cola tins, which was a score, in Plaça de Catalunya, in Barcelona, 12 December 1993. The goal was asking for Catalan business tagging. A draw that said \"Etiquetem en català\" (Let’s tag in Catalan) was made with all the collected tins. Since then, some more campaigns took place in tagging area, cinema and in the Catalan recognition.\n\nBetween 1995 and 2000 some protestation acts took place in cinemas to ask for dubbing and Catalan subtitling. Also, there were campaigns to pressure the government and the multinationals with massive messages, certificates and public reports to media. In 2001, relevant multinationals like Warner made films in Catalan about the Story of Harry Potter. In 2011, La Plataforma per la Llengua made Catalan government write a cinema law that guarantee 50% of copies in Catalan. However, in 2013 it hasn’t been yet enforced. In 1997, La Plataforma per la Llengua played a relevant role in the discussion of other laws filed by the Generalitat de Catalunya, like the Act on linguistic policy, the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia 2006, the Act on reception for immigrants and returnees to Catalonia 2010 or Catalan Consumer Code 2010. Some small changes were made in the documents that involved Catalan language, but most of them haven’t been yet applied.\n\nIn business area, there was a very unfavourable situation in 2000, and by intensive campaigns, some goals were achieved: Catalan language was introduced in some big multinationals like Apple, Microsoft, Vodafone, Orange, Telefónica, Carrefour, Nokia, Samsung, Siemens, Carrefour, Decathlon, Schlecker, Facebook, Google, Twitter or IKEA.\n\nFrom 2000 La Plataforma per la Llengua started growing. Before, it was an organisation supported by Col•lectiu l’Esbarzer, but then, an associates basis and a professional structured were created. A new work methodology was applied, reports were written and a consumer net appear. Some events were organised in order to make citizens realise about the linguistic points and claim a business improvement as well as an autonomic government improvement of Catalonia, Valencian Community, Aragon and Balearic Islands and Spanish, French and Italian States.\nIn 2004, the first Festa de la Joguina en Català (The Game Party in Catalan) was celebrated some days before Christmas. Since then, it has been celebrated once a year to claim children can play in Catalan. In 2005, the first Festa d’Acollida d’Estudiants Universitaris Erasmus (Welcome party for university students with Erasmus Programme) in Barcelona to increase Catalan language in university courses and make new arrival students use Catalan in university courses. In 2005, the first Dia de Sant Jordi act (Saint George's Day), Catalonia’s patron, was celebrated in Plaça de Catalunya, in Barcelona, with other immigrants organisations to reclaim the use of Catalan as a common language. Since then, the organisation has worked together with a 30 immigrant organisations to established the linguistic diversity of Catalan Community and the use of Catalan as a cohesion tool, by using a hundred linguistic partners formed by a Catalan and a person who wants to learn it, and by videos about social cohesion in Catalan that have had a thousand visitors.\n\nLa Plataforma per la Llengua put into groups a hundred local governments and Catalan institutions that had the compromise to use only the products tagged in Catalan. After having achieved tagging in Catalan in the products like wine, cava, water, milk and beer, finally, after strong campaigns towards the government, in 2010, the Catalan Consumer Code 2010 comprised the obligation of tagging in Catalan the products distributed in Catalonia.\n\nLa Plataforma per la Llengua has complained again by campaigns that Catalan is the only European language with so many million speakers that is neither official of European Union nor of a state of European Union. In 2009 a report was written, it complained more than 500 actions that Catalan people need to use Spanish Language and the valid Catalan banning in Spain.\n\nLa Plataforma per la Llengua has acted to answer to the Government of Spain attacks and to the some other Spanish Autonomic Government attacks. These attacks were against people who spoke Catalan, specially, in learning and against the recognition of the official language too. Complaints about failure to take action and about Spanish police aggressions, as well as the aggressions of other civil servants against citizens that express themselves in Catalan.\n\nThroughout 20 years, this organization has received several awards, including the 2008 National Prize for Culture for the social projection of the Catalan language, given by the Government of Catalonia: Generalitat de Catalunya; Premi Abacus, awarded in 2010; Premi de Voluntariat, in 2008, 2010 and 2012, and Premi al millor projecte associatiu del Consell Nacional de la Joventut de Catalunya, awarded in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "53125646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53125646", "title": "Primary School Certificate", "text": "Primary School Certificate\n\nThe Primary School Certificate (PSC) Examination is a national examination in Bangladesh administered by the Ministry of Primary and Mass Education and taken by all students near the end of their fifth year in primary school.\n"}
{"id": "11722032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11722032", "title": "Primary education", "text": "Primary education\n\nPrimary education and elementary education is typically the first stage of formal education, coming after preschool and before secondary education (The first two grades of primary school, Grades 1 and 2, are also part of early childhood education). Primary education usually takes place in a primary school or elementary school. In some countries, primary education is followed by middle school, an educational stage which exists in some countries, and takes place between primary school and high school college. Primary Education in Australia consists of grades foundation to grade 6. In the United States, primary education is Grades 1 - 3 and elementary education usually consists of grades 1-6.\n\nThe United Nations Millennium Development Goal 2 was to achieve universal primary education by the year 2015, by which time their aim was to ensure that all children everywhere, regardless of race or gender, will be able to complete primary schooling.\n\nDue to the fact that the United Nations specifically focused on Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, as they are both home to the vast majority of children out of school, they hypothesized that they might not have been able to reach their goal by 2015. According to the September 2010 fact sheet, this was because there were still about 69 million school-age children who were not in school with almost half of the demographic in sub-Saharan Africa and more than a quarter in Southern Asia.\n\nIn order to achieve the goal by 2015, the United Nations estimated that all children at the official entry age for primary school would have had to have been attending classes by 2009. This would depend upon the duration of the primary level, as well as how well the schools retain students until the end of the cycle.\n\nNot only was it important for children to be enrolled in education, but countries will also have needed to ensure that there are a sufficient number of teachers and classrooms to meet the demand of pupils. As of 2010, the number of new teachers needed in sub-Saharan Africa alone, equaled the current teaching force in the region.\n\nHowever, the gender gap for children not in education had also been narrowed. Between 1999 and 2008, the number of girls not in education worldwide had decreased from 57 percent to 53 percent, however it should also be noted that in some regions, the percentage had increased.\n\nAccording to the United Nations, there are many things in the regions that have already been accomplished. Although enrollment in the sub-Saharan area of Africa continues to be the lowest region worldwide, by 2010 \"it still increased by 18 percentage points—from 58 percent to 76 percent—between 1999 and 2008.\" There was also progress in both Southern Asia and North Africa, where both areas saw an increase in enrollment, For example, In Southern Asia, this had increased by 11 percent and in North Africa by 8 percent- over the last decade.\n\nMajor advances had been made even in the poorest of countries like the abolition of primary school fees in Burundi where there was an increase in primary-school enrollment which reached 99 percent as of 2008. Also, Tanzania experienced a similar outcome. The country doubled its enrollment ratio over the same period. Moreover, other regions in Latin America such as Guatemala and Nicaragua, and Zambia in Southern Africa \"broke through the 90 percent towards greater access to primary education.\"\n\n\n\nIn Somalia, pupils start primary school when they are 7 and finish it at the age of 11 starting from form 1 to form 4. Pupils must firstly have attended casual school known as \"dugsi\" and learnt the Muslim holy book Qur'an, and the meaning of the Arabic language. Pupils who had not done this are not permitted to start primary school as they will be examined before starting. Pupils' age may sometimes vary seeing that some pupils achieve higher than their predicted grade and may skip the year while some require to repeat the year if they had not achieved the grade required from them. After finishing primary, students move to intermediate school.\n\nIn Tunisia pre-school education (3–6 years) is optional and provided primarily in three settings:\n\nKindergartens:socio-educational institutions that come under the supervision of Ministry of culture.\n\nKouttabs:religious institutions also cater for children between 3 and 5 years of age. Their task is to initiate them into learning the Quran as well as reading, writing, and arithmetic. They are under the supervision of the Ministry of Religious Affairs\n\nPreparatory year: It is also an integral part of basic education but it is not compulsory. It is supervised by the Ministry of Education and is provided in public, private and quasi-public primary schools\n\n9 years of basic education are compulsory.\n\n\nIn Hong Kong, students attend primary schools for the first six years of compulsory education.\n\nThe Indonesian term for elementary school is \"sekolah dasar\" and it consists of six grades.\n\nIn India, elementary schools provide education from Class 1 to Class 8. The children in these classes are generally aged between 6 and 15 years. It is the next stage after kindergarten (Pre-Nursery, Nursery, Prep or Lower Kindergarten and Upper Kindergarten). The next stage after primary education is Middle School (Class 7th to 10th). In most schools in North India, children in Classes 1st to 3rd are taught English, Hindi, Mathematics, Environmental Science, and General Knowledge. In class 4th and 5th the environmental science subject is replaced by General Science and Social Studies. However some schools may introduce this concept in Class 3 itself. Some schools may also introduce a third language in Class 5th or even in Class 4th. Sanskrit and local state language are the most common third languages taught in Indian schools. At some places, primary education is labeled as the education of Class 3rd to Class 5th and up to class 2nd as pre-primary education. This is because many new concepts are introduced in this class. Children are taught painting instead of drawing and colouring, exams are taken, and Word Sum Puzzle in maths are introduced along with geometry.\n\nThe National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) is the apex body for school education in India. The NCERT provides support and technical assistance to a number of schools in India and oversees many aspects of enforcement of education policies. In India, the various bodies governing school education system are:\n\n\nPrimary/secondary education in India is segregated as Primary (1st standard to 5th standard), Upper Primary (6th standard to 8th standard), Lower Secondary (9th standard to 10th standard), and Higher Secondary (11th and 12th standard).\n\n\nThere are 6 years of education in primary school from ages 6 to 12 years old (new educational system).\n\nPrimary school is required by law in Iran.  There are many free public schools for students to attend, and they can also choose to attend private schools with high tuition fees.  There are also 'Nemuneh Mardomi' schools, which many believe to be better than public schools and less expensive than private schools, however they are very difficult to get accepted into.  In order to attend 'Nemuneh Mardomi' schools you must take an entrance exam, which is used to identify the best students. This is a very competitive and stressful process for students.\n\n\nSome schools include classes 7 and 8 as elementary school; some include them as high school.\n\nKindergartens nursery schools are private institutions and attendance is not mandatory.\n\n\nEnglish has become a compulsory subject at primary schools in Japan, since April 2011 in order to compete with other Asian countries in English proficiency; Japanese students have among the lowest English TOEFL scores in Asia.\n\nIn Malaysia, the first six years of compulsory formalised education take place in primary schools, and starts at the age of seven.\n\nPrimary education is compulsory in Malaysia. Children spend 6 years in primary schools. In 6th year, students sit for a national standardized test known as the Ujian Pencapaian Sekolah Rendah (UPSR, Primary School Achievement Test).\n\nLevel One\n\nKindergarten: age 5 - 6\n\n\nLevel Two\n\n\nAfter completing Standard 6, students go on to secondary schools.\n\nLower Secondary\n\n\nUpper Secondary\n\n\nNext, the students will be moving on into universities or college\n\nIn Pakistan, children aged between 3–6 years begin attending Pre School which is not mandatory but recommended by the government and private education sectors.\n\nThe Pre School is associated with the Early Years of Education (EYE) programme which is basically consists of initial three years of education starting from Play or Pre Nursery Class students age 3+ and Nursery Class Students age 4+ and Prep Class Students age 5+. The most private school have varied classes names for Pre School Classes I-e, Nursery, Kindergarten-1 and Kindergarten-2. Whereas, some other private schools names pre school classes like Nursery, Kindergarten and Prep.\n\nPrimary Education is free and mandatory by the Government of Pakistan in the Provincial Government and Federal Government Public Schools. The government obliged parents to enrolled their children in the schools. The student age should be 5 to 6 years when admitted in class 1. Besides Government Schools there are many Private Schools who provide Primary, Secondary and Higher Secondary education at a higher cost.\n\nThe Primary education in Pakistan is 5 years of education program starting from Class 1 to 5. The elementary school is called middle school in which classes 6 to 8 are taught.The high school is two years of education called Matric which consists of classes 9th and 10th. The students after passing the 10th year of education from Board of Secondary Education examination (BSEE) OR Secondary School Certificate (SSC) often called out matriculate. The 11th and 12th years of education classes mostly held in Higher Secondary Schools or at Colleges situated in the jurisdiction of the Board Of Intermediate Education (BIE). The classes called 1st Year and 2nd Year of Intermediate level at colleges. After that students are allowed to go to Universities for their bachelor's degree in respective subjects.\nIn the Philippines, the Department of Education mandates that elementary school lasts for 7 years in the public school system starting with Kindergarten and grade 1 and culminating with grade 6. After successful completion of the 7-year programme shall a student graduate, be awarded an elementary diploma and can move-on to a 4-year junior high school programme (most private schools will require an entrance examination). However most private schools (which usually call the elementary level as \"grade school\"), especially exclusive schools and those accredited to have a high degree of autonomy from the Department of Education usually extend their programmes to 7th grade and can also include levels such as nursery, kindergarten or preparatory (prep) as entry levels prior to 1st grade. Subjects usually taken up include Communication Arts in Mother Tongue (until Grade 3), English (some private schools break this down into Language and Reading) and Filipino, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies (taught in Mother Tongue from Grade 1-Grade 3, Filipino in Grades 4-6), Music, Art, Physical Education and Health (collectively known as MAPEH), Values Education and Technology and Livelihood Education (TLE). Students in the 6th grade, whether studying in a public or private school are required to undergo a National (Elementary) Achievement Test (NAT) even if grade 6 isn't the terminal level in that school. The NAT is similar to certain schemes like Primary School Leaving Examination of Singapore (PSLE) except that that NAT score isn't used as a basis to admit students to a high school. Kindergarten, Grade 1 to Grade 6 are affected with the K-12 education.\n\nThe Saudi Arabian term for elementary school is \"المدرسة الابتدائية\", consisting of students from ages 6 to 12.\n\nThe medium of instruction is English. After completing kindergarten, or pre-school years, children will then have to go through 6 years of compulsory primary education, from ages 7 to 12. At the end of primary education, students are required to take a standardised national exam, the Primary School Leaving Examination (also known as PSLE). Based on PSLE results, students apply and are sorted into secondary schools for a 4 or 5-year course.\n\nPrimary education in Singapore, normally starting at age seven, is a four-year \"foundation stage\" (Primary 1 to 4) and a two-year \"orientation stage\" (Primary 5 to 6). Primary education is compulsory and fees are low at public schools, there are also other fees per student to help cover miscellaneous costs.\n\nDuring the foundation stage, all students are taught English Language as a first language, a mother tongue as a second language and Mathematics. Science is introduced from Primary 3 onwards. In addition to these examinable subjects, lessons in Civics and Moral Education, arts and crafts, music, health education, social studies and physical education are conducted at various levels. Students are also introduced to project work, receive pastoral care and career guidance, and are to participate in Co-Curricular Activities and Community Involvement Programmes. In the orientation stage, weaker students are banded based on their abilities in the four examinable subjects. Known as \"subject-based banding\", they take individual subjects either at the standard or foundation level. Conversely, higher mother tongue is offered for students with higher ability.\n\nIn South Korea, students attend elementary school from kindergarten to the 6th grade. Students study a wide range of subjects, including: Korean, English, Chinese characters, math, social studies, science, computers, art, physical education, music, health, ethics, and home economics. English instruction generally begins in the 3rd grade. After finishing elementary school, students attend middle school (middle school 1st–3rd grade). The Korean term for elementary school is chodeung hakgyo ().\n\n9 years of primary school are compulsory.\n\nKindergarten (optional): 5–6 years\n\n\nPrimary Education in Turkey\n\nChildren normally start primary education at the age of six. Education at this level lasts for 5 years and is compulsory for all children. The country's literacy rate is over 90%.\n\nAccording to the Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey 2006 of Vietnam’s General Statistics Office, 96% of six to 11-year-old children enrolled in primary school. However, there was still a significant disparity in the primary education completion rate among different ethnicity. While primary completion rate for Kinh students was 86%, the rate for ethnic minority children was only 61%.\n\nIn school year 2009-2010, Vietnam had 15,172 primary schools and 611 combined primary and lower secondary schools. The total enrollment was 7.02 million pupils, of whom 46% were girls.\n\nThe renovated primary education curriculum in Vietnam is divided into two phases as follows:\n\n\nIn Australia, students undertake preschool then 13 years of schooling before moving to vocational or higher education. Primary schooling for most children starts after they turn 5 years old. In most states, children can be enrolled earlier at the discretion of individual school principals on the basis of intellectual giftedness. In Victoria, New South Wales, Northern Territory, ACT and Tasmania students then move through Kindergarten/Preparatory School/Reception and Years 1 to 6 before starting high school. In Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia students do Year 7 while still enrolled at primary school, although most governmental primary schools are moving to a K to 6 structure to line up with the other states in order to ensure that Year 7 students are able to undertake laboratory practical components of the national syllabus.\n\n\nIn Denmark, 0 - 9 grade is compulsory primary education.\n\nMost children are pupils in the Danish \"Folkeskolen\", which has the current grades: Kindergarten (optional): 3–6 years\n\n\n10th grade (optional): 15–18 years\n\nIn Estonia, 9 years of primary school (\"Põhikool\" or \"basic school\") are compulsory. The first three grades of primary school are called \"Algkool\" which can be translated as \"beginning school\" and can be confused with primary school. In some low density population areas Algkool is the only school available and students enter primary school in bigger towns.\n\n\n9 years of primary school (Peruskoulu) are compulsory.\n\n\nIn France, primary schools provide education from the age of 6 to 11. The students start in CP (cours préparatoire) then past in CE1, CE2 (cours élémentaires), CM1 and finally CM2 (cours moyens). Before 1941 primary schools had upper sections called \"ecoles primaires supérieures,\" which spanned on four years and enabled students to enter normal schools or clerking professions; such sections were turned into Lycées but \"cours complementaires\" remained until 1959, when such courses were turned into \"collèges d'enseignement généraux.\"\n\nEducation is mandatory from 6 years old to 16 years old. Free public and free private education is offered from 3 years old (sometimes 2 years old). Home education is allowed. Occasionally classes are of a double level to make up the number of pupil per class, usually to 29.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDepending on the federal state, primary schools provide education from Class 1 to Class 4 or from Class 1 to Class 6. After primary school students may attend a Hauptschule, Mittelschule, Regionale Schule or a Realschule, which are more vocationally orientated, a Gymnasium, which is more academically oriented, or a Gesamtschule, which is comparable to a Comprehensive School.\n\nThe first school for German children is called Grundschule. It takes usually four years, the pupils are between six and ten years old. The education consists of learning to read, write, basic math and general knowledge. In some schools, a first foreign language is introduced, usually English. In the final year of primary school, children receive a recommendation as to which further school they can attend.\n\n\nDepending on the recommendation they received from their teacher, children proceed to their mandatory secondary education in either Hauptschule (Grades 5-9, sometimes 10th grade is added which is then called \"Werkrealschule\"), Realschule (Grades 5-10), or Gymnasium (Grades 5-12). Upon the successful completion of Grades 11 and 12 in the Gymnasium, students receive the Abitur, a diploma with the permission to enter post-secondary education (similar to the A-level or High School Diploma). The Abitur will not be received at the end of Haupt- and Realschule, but graduating students are eligible to enter the 10th Grade of the Gymnasium if they wish to obtain the Abitur.\n\nPrimary school education for children in Hungary takes 8 years.\n\n\nIn Iceland, 10 years of primary school (\"Grunnskóli\") are compulsory.\n\nPrimary school teaching in Iceland consists of 10 grade levels. These are:\n\n\nPrimary school teaching in Ireland consists of 8 class levels. These are:\n\n\nJunior and Senior infants correspond to Kindergarten.\n\nThe subjects mainly taught in primary school are:\n\n\nSecondary school teaching in Ireland consists of 6 class levels. These are:\n\n\nThe content of the Religion course taught depends on the management of the school. Many schools are managed and owned by the Roman Catholic Church, with a lesser number belonging to the Church of Ireland and to the Multi Denominational Group Educate Together and a handful run by other religions such as Muslims. Each school body decides on the emphasis of its religious instruction. In Catholic schools 2nd and 6th class prepare children for Holy Communion and Confirmation respectively. In the Church of Ireland this preparation is done when the pupil is aged about 14 years, and is in secondary school.\n\nChildren may start at primary school at any age between four and six years of age. Most children finish primary school at or around twelve years of age.\n\nPrimary school teaching in Italy consists of 5 grades. Before the First Grade, there is the kindergarten (\"scuola dell'infanzia\" in Italian), which is not compulsory and lasts 3 years.\n\n\nSchools used to have a six-day school week, Monday to Saturday. Lately, as of 2008, most elementary and middle schools have reduced the school week to five days, with high schools remaining with six.\n\nChildren in the Netherlands must be at least four years old to enter primary education. Almost all 4-year-olds (99.3%) in the Netherlands indeed attend primary school, although this is not \"compulsory\" until children reach the age of 5. Primary school is free of charge. In most schools, children are grouped by age in mixed ability classes, with one teacher for all subjects. Primary school consists of 8 groups (thus 8 years of schooling). During the first two years (both kindergarten), children receive an average of 22 hours of education, during the last 6 years children receive an average of 25 hours per week. Schools are open 5 days a week, but all children have a half day on Wednesdays (ending at noon). At the end of primary school, in group 8, schools advise on secondary school choice. Most schools use a national test to support this advice, for instance the 'Citotoets', a test developed by the Central Institute for Test development.\n\n\nPrimary school:\n\n\nMiddle school:\n\n\nSecondary school:\n\n\nHigher education: 18 and over Children may end their schooling after passing secondary school if desired.\n\nIn Portugal, the primary education (\"ensino primário\") is known as the 1st cycle of the basic education (\"1º ciclo do ensino básico\"). It includes the first four years of compulsory education (\"1ª classe\", \"2ª classe\", \"3ª classe\" and \"4ª classe\"), their pupils being children between six and ten years old. After the education reform of 1986, the former primary education became part of the basic education (\"educação básica\").\n\nBasic education now includes:\n\n\nMost children attend a preparatory year at the age of 6 even if this initial year is not mandatory. Children then kids go to the primary school (\"grundskola\") through the ages of 7 and 15. After that they can choose to (although it is very uncommon not to) study at a gymnasium for three years where they pick a program devoted to a particular direction (i.e. Science, Aesthetics, Civics). During the gymnasium all students have some subjects they have to study, but not during all three years.\n\nThe children doesn't start receiving grades until their sixth year. There is, however, proposals to change this to the fourth year. Swedish government\n\n\n\"Gymnasieskola\" is not compulsory but most common. What you wish to read is your choice, if you have the right grades for your wanted education. If there are more people who wish to read than spots, the ones with the highest grades are accepted. This is either a preparation for University or for work.\n\nDuring the year before children start compulsory school, all children are offered a place in a pre-school class (\"förskoleklass\"), which combines the pedagogical methods of the pre-school with those of compulsory school. Between ages 7 and 15, children attend compulsory comprehensive school (\"grundskola\"), divided in three stages. The vast majority of schools in Sweden are municipally run, but there are also independent schools. The education in independent schools has many objectives in common with the municipal school, but it can have an orientation that differs from that of the municipal schools.\n\nElementary schools in England and Wales were publicly funded schools which provided a basic standard of education for children aged from six to 14 between 1870 and 1944. These were set up to enable children to receive manual training and elementary instruction and provided a restricted curriculum with the emphasis on reading, writing and arithmetic (the three Rs). The schools operated on a 'monitorial' system, whereby one teacher supervised a large class with the assistance of a team of monitors, who were quite often older pupils. Elementary school teachers were paid by results. Their pupils were expected to achieve precise standards in reading, writing and arithmetic such as reading a short paragraph in a newspaper, writing from dictation, and working out sums and fractions.\n\nBefore 1944 around 80 per cent of the school population attended elementary schools through to the age of 14. The remainder transferred either to secondary school or junior technical school at age 11. The school system was changed with the introduction of the Education Act 1944. Education was restructured into three progressive stages which were known as primary education, secondary education and further education.\n\nIn the UK, schools providing primary education are now known as primary schools. They generally cater for children aged from four to eleven (Reception to Year Six or in Northern Ireland and Scotland P1 to P7). Primary schools are often subdivided into infant schools for children from four to seven and junior schools for ages seven to 11. In the (diminishing) minority of areas where there is a \"three-tier\" system, children go to lower school or \"first school\" until about 9, then middle school until about 13, then upper school; in these places, the term \"primary school\" is not usually used.\n\nIn the UK schools providing primary education in the state sector are known as primary schools. They generally cater for children aged from four to eleven (Reception to Year Six; in Northern Ireland and Scotland Primary One to Primary Seven).\n\nIn areas that adopted a three-tier system, the term primary school is often used as an alternative to First School, taking in ages up to 9 or 10 years old, although for education planning purposes, the term \"primary education\" in these areas will still cover the age groups as in a two-tier system.\n\nIn the private sector, fee-paying schools which provide primary education are known as preparatory schools, and they often cater for children up to the age of thirteen. As their name suggests, preparatory schools are designed to prepare pupils for entrance examinations for fee-paying independent schools.\n\nChildren start school either in the year or the term in which they reach five depending upon the policy of the Local Education Authority. All state schools are obligated to follow a centralized National Curriculum. The primary school years are split into Key Stages:\n\n\nAt the end of Year 6 all children in state primary schools are required to take National Curriculum tests in reading and maths also called SATS.\n\nThey then change schools to go to secondary school.\n\n\nChildren start school either in the year or the term in which they reach four. All state schools are obliged to follow a centralised National Curriculum. The primary school years are split into Key Stages:\n\n\nAt the end of Key Stage 2 in P7, all children are offered the voluntary 11-plus (also called the \"transfer procedure\") examinations, though the parents of thirty percent of children elect not to, and send their kids to secondary schools instead of grammar schools.\n\nAll state primary schools are under the jurisdiction of the Department of Education.\n\nIn Scotland children typically spend seven years in a primary school, whose years are named P1 to P7. Children enter P1 at the age of four or five (according to a combination of birth date and parental choice); for example, if your birthday is between 1 March 2015 and 29 February 2016, then you would generally start Primary 1 in August 2020.\n\n\"Primary Education\"\n\n\n\"Secondary Education\"\n\n\nChildren in Wales spend 7 years at primary school between the ages of 4 and 11.\n\nIn Canada, primary school (also referred to as elementary school) usually begins at ages three or four, starting with either Kindergarten or Grade 1 and lasts until age 13 or 14. Many places in Canada have a split between primary and elementary schools.\n\nIn Nova Scotia \"elementary school\" is the most common term. The provincial government of Nova Scotia uses the term \"Primary\" instead of Kindergarten.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Students in the Prairie Provinces are not required by statute to attend pre-kindergarten or kindergarten.\n\n\"The education system enrollment in Mexico has continued growing throughout the years.  With this, Mexico schooling systems need to come up with different ways to manage and expand access to schooling in order to accommodate their growing enrollment.  They also need to make sure they providing high-quality education to students. Mexico’s primary schools include grades one through six and are both state and federally funded.  Their school year usually goes from August to June. They have a morning session that goes from 7:30 am to 12:30 pm and an afternoon session that goes from 1:30 pm to 6:30 pm.  Breakfast is served in some primary schools, but lunch is not provided. In grades three through six students need to pass all of their subjects as well as an end of course exam in order to move up to the next grade level.  The curriculum that is covered in Mexico’s primary schools includes Spanish plus an additional language like English, math, geography, civics and ethics, physical education, and art.\"\n\nIn the United States, authority to regulate education resides constitutionally with the individual states. The direct authority of the U.S. Congress and the federal U.S. Department of Education is essentially limited to regulation and enforcement of federal constitutional rights. Great indirect authority is exercised through federal funding of national programs and block grants; but there is no obligation upon any state to accept these funds, and the U.S. government otherwise may propose but not enforce national goals, objectives and standards, which generally lie beyond its jurisdiction.\n\nNevertheless, education has had a relatively consistent evolution throughout the United States. All states have historically made a distinction between two genres of K-12 education and three genres of K-12 school. The genres of education are primary and secondary; and the genres of school are elementary school(Primary school have in common term as well), middle or junior high school, and high school (historically, \"senior\" high school to distinguish it from the junior school).\n\nPrimary education (or \"primary school\" meaning \"primary education\") still tends to focus on basic academic learning and socialization skills, introducing children to the broad range of knowledge, skill and behavioral adjustment they need to succeed in life - and, particularly, in secondary school. Secondary education or secondary school has always focused on preparing adolescents for higher education or/and for careers in industries, trades or professions that do not require an academic degree.\n\nOver the past few decades, schools in the USA have been testing various arrangements which break from the one-teacher, one-class model. Multi-age programs, where children in different grades (e.g. Kindergarten through to second grade) share the same classroom and teachers, is one increasingly popular alternative to traditional elementary instruction. Another alternative is that children might have a main class and go to another teacher's room for one subject, such as science, while the science teacher's main class will go to the other teacher's room for another subject, such as social studies. This could be called a two-teacher, or a rotation. It is similar to the concept of teams in junior high school. Another method is to have the children have one set of classroom teachers in the first half of the year, and a different set of classroom teachers in the second half of the year. Primary School is also known as Elementary school.\n\n43 of the states are now using the Common Core Standards which claim to better prepare students for college and career.\n\n\nBrazil has recently gone through changes in school grades. Currently, at the age of 6 children attend from the grade 1 to 4 what is called Ensino Primário (Portuguese for Primary Teaching, or Primary School), and afterwards from grade 5 to 9 the Ensino Fundamental (Fundamental Teaching/School). At the age of 15 the teenagers go to Ensino Médio (Mid Teaching/School), which is equivalent High School in other countries, but it is only 3 years long (grades 10 to 12) and can either be a regular or technical course.\n\nPrimary school is mandatory and consists in nine years called Ensino Fundamental, separated into Ensino Fundamental I (1st to 5th grades) and Ensino Fundamental II (6th to 9th grades).\n\n\nPrimary school is followed by the optional three years called Ensino Médio (former Científico, Liceu or Ginásio).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57010064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57010064", "title": "Rachel Scott (women's education reformer)", "text": "Rachel Scott (women's education reformer)\n\nRachel Scott or Cook (married name Mrs C.P. Scott), was a British women's education reformer, based in Manchester, who organised and promoted equality for women.\n\nRachel Susan Cook came from an academic family in St Andrews, one of five sisters. Her paternal line included three generations of divinity professors, including a Moderator of the Church of Scotland . Her education at St Andrew's senior school Madras College, by a private tutor and then as one of the first 6 female students enrolled at the College for Women at Hirton, which later became the University of Cambridge's Girton College, with another Scottish woman, Louisa Innes Lumsden. At this time, such women graduates were\"..rather special people..exceptionally able, determined, ambitious.\" In 1872, Cook graduated as one of the first women at the University of Cambridge with honours in the classic Tripos, at second class.\n\nThis achievement was significant given the challenges women faced in higher education. Sarah Woodhead, Cook and Lumsden were considered 'the Girton pioneers' with Cook also described as:\"a tall, dark, willowy beauty with the melancholy air of one of Rossetti's nymphs, classical features and graceful movements.\"She was recognised by George Eliot saying that she was \"sylphlike\" and the most beautiful woman she had ever seen, and there still remains in the minds of those who knew her then a memorable picture of her uncommonness, her dramatic instinct and critical quickness, and her eagerness and radiance of mind. \n\nIn 1874 she married Charles Scott known as C. P. Scott, editor of the Manchester Guardian, and moved to Manchester, where she soon joined the governing body of the city's Girls' High School. She continued to champion women's higher education by creating a home-based university level teaching facility, supported by sympathetic professors from Owens College. Through her unstinting efforts this became incorporated into Owens College in 1883.\n\nScott also served on the Withington Girls School governing body and was interested in the co-educational school Ladybarn House School and took a lead role in education in the City; her eloquent elocution at public events to raise support for education for women and girls, was remarked upon on in her obituary.\n\nHer final speech in 1900 was in the Free Trade Hall to the assembled Manchester Girls' High School community.\n\nPublishing anonymously, Scott translated classical Latin and French texts, as well as a guide to pictures in the Manchester Jubilee Exhibition of 1887. With her husband who was the editor, she contributed critical items to the Manchester Guardian and her influence and contribution was also recognised in her husband's obituary.\n\nNow the university sector in the UK has more applicants from women than men and the Times Higher and Guardian are debating this.\n\n\nAn image of Rachel Cook, Mrs C.P. Scott can be found in her obituary \n"}
{"id": "11088950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11088950", "title": "Richard Felder", "text": "Richard Felder\n\nRichard M. Felder (born 1939 in New York City) is the Hoechst Celanese Professor Emeritus of Chemical Engineering at North Carolina State University.\nWith Ronald Rousseau and Lisa Bullard, he is coauthor of \"Elementary Principles of Chemical Processes\" (4th Edition, John Wiley & Sons, 2015), a widely-used text for the introductory chemical engineering course, and with Rebecca Brent, he is coauthor of \"Teaching and Learning STEM: A Practical Guide\" (Jossey-Bass, 2016), a guidebook for instructors of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics courses. He has authored or coauthored over 300 papers on chemical process engineering and engineering and science education. Most of his publications and resources he has developed for instructors and students can be found on his website \"Resources in Science and Engineering Education\".\n\nFelder received a BChE degree from the City College of New York in 1962 and a PhD in chemical engineering from Princeton University in 1966. He spent a year as a NATO Postdoctoral Fellow at the Atomic Energy Research Establishment (Harwell, England) and then two years as a research engineer at Brookhaven National Laboratory.In 1969 he joined the chemical engineering faculty at North Carolina State University, and he retired to emeritus status in 1999. He spent sabbatical semesters at the University of Colorado (1982), Georgia Tech (1990), the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching (2003), and Smith College (2006).\n\nFor roughly the first half of his career, Felder carried out research on a variety of topics, starting with his doctoral and postdoctoral research on energy distributions of energetic atoms in irradiated media, progressing through mathematical modeling of mixing and diffusion in chemical reactors, fluidized bed gasification of coal, and diffusion of gases and vapors in polymer membranes, and concluding with stochastic modeling of specialty chemicals manufacturing processes. His technical publications are listed on his website.\n\nFelder coauthored \"Elementary Principles of Chemical Processes\" with Dr. Ronald W. Rousseau and (in the fourth edition) Dr. Lisa G. Bullard. The book first appeared in 1978 and became the standard textbook for the introductory chemical engineering course in the United States. It has been adopted by more than 90% of all U.S. chemical engineering departments and at many institutions abroad in English, Spanish, Portuguese, Chinese, and Korean editions.\n\nBeginning in the late 1980s, Felder shifted his career focus from disciplinary engineering research to education, including educational research. Besides his book \"Teaching and Learning STEM: A Practical Guide\", he has authored or coauthored two book chapters and over 200 education related articles and over 100 \"Random Thoughts\" columns in the quarterly journal \"Chemical Engineering Education\". His research and publications deal with many aspects of teaching and learning, with his primary emphasis being on student-centered instructional methods including \"active learning\" (involving students in course-relevant activities during classes rather than relying entirely on lecturing as the medium of instruction) and \"cooperative learning\" (getting students to complete assignments and projects in teams under conditions that include holding all team members individually accountable for all of the work done). For Dr. Felder's teaching philosophy, see \"An Interview with Richard M. Felder\", which appeared in the \"Journal of Science Education\", (2002), vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 62–65.\n\nFelder has given over 300 education-related seminars and—with his wife and colleague, Dr. Rebecca Brent—over 300 teaching workshops on campuses throughout the United States and abroad. He is the co-founder (with Dr. James Stice) of the \"National Effective Teaching Institute\" sponsored by the American Society for Engineering Education, and co-directed it from 1991 through 2015. The NETI has been given every year since its inaugural offering, reaching over 1000 participants from more than 200 universities and colleges.\n\nFelder co-developed and validated an on-line instrument called the \"Index of Learning Styles\" that assesses students' preferences on four dimensions of a learning styles model he had previously co-developed with Dr. Linda K. Silverman. The instrument is accessed by close to a million users every year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9369090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9369090", "title": "School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Manchester", "text": "School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Manchester\n\nThe School of Physics and Astronomy at the University of Manchester is one of the largest and most active Physics departments in the UK, taking around 250 new undergraduates and 50 postgraduates each year, and employing more than 80 members of academic staff and over 100 research fellows and associates. The school is based on two sites: the Schuster Laboratory on Brunswick Street and the Jodrell Bank Centre for Astrophysics in Cheshire, international headquarters of the Square Kilometre Array (SKA).\n\nAccording to the Academic Ranking of World Universities, the school is the 9th best Physics department in the world and best in Europe. It is ranked equal 7th place in the UK by GPA according to the Research Excellence Framework (REF) in 2014. The University has a long history of physics dating back to 1874, which includes 12 Nobel laureates, most recently Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov who were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2010 for their discovery of graphene.\n\nThe School of Physics and Astronomy comprises eight research groups:\n\nResearch in the department of Physics has been funded by the Particle Physics and Astronomy Research Council (PPARC), the Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) and the Royal Society.\n\n the School employs 53 Professors, including Emeritus Professors.\nThe department is also home to a number of Emeritus Scientists, pursuing their research interests after their formal retirement including:\n\nThe school has origins dating back to 1874 when Balfour Stewart was appointed the first Langworthy Professor of Physics at Owens College, Manchester. Stewart was the first to identify an electrified atmospheric layer (now known as the ionosphere) which could distort the Earth's magnetic field. The theory of the ionosphere was postulated by Carl Friedrich Gauss in 1839, Stewart published the first experimental confirmation of the theory in 1878. Since then, the school has hosted many award-winning scientists including:\n\nIn 2004, the two separate departments of Physics at the Victoria University of Manchester and the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology (UMIST) were merged to form the current School of Physics and Astronomy at the University of Manchester. See physicists associated with the University of Manchester for a complete list of physicists in Manchester and their achievements.\n"}
{"id": "45666878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45666878", "title": "Stanislas Idzikowski", "text": "Stanislas Idzikowski\n\nStanislas Idzikowski (1894 – 12 February 1977) was a Polish dancer and ballet master, active in England, and with such historic companies as Pavlova's, Ballets Russes, and Vic-Wells. During his performance career, 1910-1933, he became famous for his brilliant classical technique, and for the development of ballet roles. With Beaumont he co-authored an influential book on the Cecchetti Method, still in print. He later taught dance in London.\n\nBorn in Warsaw Stanisław Idzikowski at the age of ten began his formal dance training, at the ballet school of the Wielki Theatre in his native city. Among his early instructors was the Italian dancer and teacher Enrico Cecchetti, who would later prove important for his professional life. He also studied with Stanislav Gilbert and Anatole Vilzak. Auguste Berger a Bohemian then instructed him which led to his stage debut in \"Ali Baba\", a ballet divertissement. \n\nWhen Idzikowski was sixteen, he relocated to England, and Anglicized his given name Stanisław to Stanislas. His performing career in London's West End then began, doing musical and ballet productions, e.g., \"The Belle of New York\" in 1911. He danced in the touring company of Russian ballet star Anna Pavlova in 1912. He traveled to Lausanne in 1914 where he met the impresario Sergei Diaghilev. Cecchetti then recommended him for the Ballets Russes; he soon became a leading dancer.\n\nA small, muscular man, Idzikowski had developed a strong classical ballet technique and was capable of performing virtuosic feats. With the Diaghilev company, he first assumed roles made famous by Vaslav Nijinsky, its former star performer and a world celebrity. Thus, in choreographer Michel Fokine's ballets Idzikowski danced: the role of Harlequin in \"Le Carnaval\"; in \"Petrushka\", the title role; and in \"Le Spectre de la Rose\", the Spirit.\n\nYet their interpretive approach could differ. As Harlequin, Nijinsky expressed a \"spirit of subtle mockery and cynical worldly wisdom\". While Idzikowski, according to Beaumont, danced the part with a \"mischievous certainty, but always good natured\". \n\nThese roles \"previously seemed the particular property of that great genius Nijinsky. Few things are more unnerving to a dancer than to execute a dance which the public is accustomed to see performed by someone else.\"\n\nIdzikowshi was particularly celebrated for his phenomenal \"elevation\" and dazzling \"batterie\". As before him Cecchetti in 1890, and Nijinsky in 1907, Idzikowski in 1921 performed as the Blue Bird in the pas de deux from \"The Sleeping Beauty\" of Tchaikovsky. \"[His] most famous role was the Blue Bird in \"The Sleeping Princess\" of 1921\" premiering in London.\n\nPossessed of a strong sense of comedy and drama, he also became known for the character roles he created in the ballets of Léonide Massine, including the role of the Cat in Kikimora (1916), Battista in \"Les Femmes de Bonne Humeur\" (1917), the Spark (Dandy) in \"Le Tricorne\" (1919), the Snob in \"La Boutique Fantasque\" (1919), and Corviello in \"Pulcinella\" (1920). Among his other original roles was the Cock on his perch in \"Le Renard\" (1923), choreographed by Bronislava Nijinska.\n\nHaving briefly left Ballets Russes in 1924, Idzikowski in 1925 rejoined the company. He danced with Alexandra Danilova in its production of Jack in the Box, with music by the late Erik Satie, choreography by George Balanchine. When Sergei Diaghilev unexpectedly died in 1929, however, the ballet world lost not only the gifted impresario, but also his company as \"the Ballets Russes collapsed\".\n\nIn 1924, both on leave from Ballets Russes, Idzikowski appeared with his frequent dance partner Lydia Lopokova at the London Coliseum. She also was drawn to Soirées de Paris, a new dance enterprise organized by Étienne de Beaumont. It was a potential competitor of Diaghilev. \"Artistic considerations\" caused Lopokova to respond \"with enthusiasm to Massine's offer of a place in his new company.\" Idzikowski also signed. Massine at Soirée de Paris wrote choreography for new ballets, including \"Mercure\". Picasso designed decor. Staged in Paris, it was the Soirée's first and only season. \n\n\"As a guest artist with the Vic‐Wells Ballet in the early 1930's, Mr. Idzikowski lent the prestige of his name to the struggling young company that is now Britain's Royal Ballet.\" He developed the lead male role in \"Les Rendezvous\", a ballet-divertissement choreographed by Ashton, mounted in 1933. \"The leading pair of 'lovers' was performed by Alicia Markova and Stanislas Idzikowski.\" The Vic-Wells company was directed by de Valois, an 'alumnus' of Ballets Russes. For Vic-Wells, Idzikowski also performed his well-known Blue Bird role in the revised, one-act \"Aurora's Wedding\", and his Harlequin in \"Carnaval\".\n\nFrom 1928 to 1930 Idzikowski had managed and directed his own ballet company. He later associated with the commercial production of films: \"The Gods Go a-Begging\" (1934), \"Carnival\" (1935), and \"Peg of Old Drury\" (1935). For several years starting in 1939, Idzikowski served as ballet master for Mona Inglesby's International Ballet.\n\nIn 1918 Enrico Cecchetti (1850-1928), by then a renowned dancer, ballet master and pedagogue, opened a school in London. Idzikowski, his former student, joined a group of friends and associates in strongly advocating his 'Russo-Italian' method of training students. At Cecchetti's urging, Idzikowski then started to work with the maestro, and later with the balletomane Cyril W. Beaumont, to preserve and codify the Cecchetti method of teaching. Until then it had been largely developed and handed down orally. \n\nDemonstration of basic positions and exercises were made by Cecchetti and by Idzikowski, with commentary, which were then drawn by Randolph Schwabe and reduced by Beaumont to a written text. The collaboration resulted in the co-authorship by Beaumont and Idzikowski of a technical manual, completed in 1922.\n\n\"[E]ach pupil is constructed differently, both physically and temperamentally, so that each requires adaptations of the lesson in order to supply his own particular needs.\" \n\"What then ar the qualifications of an experienced professor? First, his school-the sources of his own knowledge. Second, his reputation as a teacher and his distinction as a dancer. Third, his personal qualities; he should be conscientious, patient, and a good disciplinarian. Fourth, his capacity both as a practical demonstrator and theoretical exponent. ...\"\n\"[A]s your experience increases, you may with advantage study the sister arts of mime, music, painting, drawing, and sculpture. ... Seek to discover why these works afford your pleasure. Thus you will learn what is meant by grace and beauty. Endeavor to apply these same principles to your own art.\" \n\nLater, the London dancer Celia Franca became a dance student of Idzikowsky. Franca became the first artistic director of the National Ballet of Canada and co-founded the National Ballet School of Canada; both institutions use the Cecchetti method. In 1922 Beaumont moved to found the Cecchetti Society, which merged with the ISTD in 1924.\n\nActing as ballet master he had instructed performers in various ballet companies. From 1933 he had taught, eventually from his own dance studio in London. There he was accompanied on piano by his longtime partner Wanda Evina (1891-1966). Since 1916 they had been romantically linked. Evina was British, a professional dancer, and an accomplished pianist. He worked also with the Royal Academy of Dance. \n\nAmong his students was Margot Fonteyn. She remembered him as a guest teacher during her early years at Sadler's Wells under Ninette de Valois, which would have been in the mid 1930s: \n\n\"My favorite was Stanislas Idzikowski, affectionately known as Idzi, a brilliant dancer who had been with the Diaghilev Ballet. He was diminutive, dapper, and precise, speaking rather good English with a clipped Polish accent. Severe but never unkind, he knew exactly what he expected of his students and explained clearly how to achieve it.\"\n\nFollowing the death of Madame Evina, he retired from ballet at age 72.\n\n\"He is quiet, though animated in conversation, but moody and sensitive in the highest degree.\" \"In stature he is short... . His torso and limbs are those of an athlete. The muscular development of his calves and thighs is extraordinary. ... [His] cheek bones high... , wavy hair... almost white... , [with] deep set, blue eyes.\"\n\n\"He taught class in a suit with the stiff color, the vest, and spats and street shoes. With all this, he could still do a double tour en l'air and land in a perfect fifth.\"\n\n\"How describe those difficult steps performed with an ease which makes them appear elementary to the ordinary spectator, while the professional onlooker, swayed between astonishment and rapture, can scarce believe the evidence of his eyes.\"\n\n\"The Art of Stanislas Idzikowsky\" (London 1926) is a thin volume published in a limited edition of 350 copies, with six visual art works, twelve photographs, and five pages of text. Before the title page comes Glyn Philpot's monochrome portrait. The text by Cyril W. Beaumont then describes Idzikowski in various roles and as a presence in ballet. A sketch by Randolph Schwabe is of the dancer in costume, seated in his dressing room. Following are four color images of Idzikowski in ballet poses, reproductions of paintings by Vera Willoughby. Lastly, the twelve publicity photographs are of him in various costumes of his choreographed roles. \n\nA brief {1:32}, low quality video of Idzikowski and Lydia Lopokova exists. The two were often paired. Here they are in costume as the Harlequin and Columbine in the ballet \"Le Carnaval\". Lopokova was married to John Maynard Keynes, the English economist.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31539801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31539801", "title": "Stargazing Live", "text": "Stargazing Live\n\nStargazing Live was a British live television programme on astronomy that was broadcast yearly since its first broadcast on BBC Two in January 2011. The series was primarily presented by scientist Brian Cox and comedian and amateur astronomer Dara Ó Briain with support from TV presenter and biochemist Liz Bonnin and astronomer Mark Thompson. It was broadcast from Jodrell Bank Observatory and featured live links from scientific facilities in Hawaii, South Africa, Norway and NASA.\n\nThe first series was scheduled to coincide with the partial Solar eclipse of 4 January 2011, a conjunction of Jupiter and Uranus, and the Quadrantid meteor shower. It also featured Jonathan Ross learning how to spot planets, and a discussion with the International Space Station. Newly qualified British ESA astronaut Tim Peake appeared as a guest.\n\nScientific advisors for the first series included Dan Hillier, manager of the Royal Observatory, Edinburgh, visitor centre.\n\nTo coincide with each series of the show, hundreds of \"Stargazing Live\" events were run across the UK, including star parties and 'sidewalk astronomy' sessions. Many of these events were organised by local astronomy societies and universities.\n\nThe show returned for a second series on 16–18 January 2012. The first episode had a theme about the moon, including a live interview with 'the last man on the moon', Apollo 17 astronaut Eugene Cernan. The second episode had a focus on black holes, and the third on the possible existence of extra-terrestrial life. Each episode included different guests, such as impressionist and amateur astronomer, Jon Culshaw on the second night. The final episode also included a feature titled the \"Great Big Dulverton Switch Off\" where every light in the town of Dulverton, Somerset was switched off live on TV to highlight the issue of light pollution. Each episode of the series was immediately followed by \"Back to Earth\", an additional half-hour discussion of the main show.\n\nThe second series was a co-production with the Open University, with OU science consultants Dr Andrew Norton, Dr Dave Rothery and Dr Stephen Serjeant.\n\nDuring the 2012 series, viewers were encouraged to help locate possible exoplanets, planets orbiting stars outside the Solar System, by volunteering some time on the Planet Hunters online citizen science project. This led to the discovery of a new Neptune-sized exoplanet by two amateur astronomers, one in Peterborough, England, to be named Threapleton Holmes B.\n\nThe third series returned with another three episodes. As with the last series, a \"Back to Earth\" chat was held after each episode. A citizen science project was again featured, this time asking viewers to help in identifying areas of interest in aerial photographs of the surface of Mars. Another feature which ran across the three nights involved the construction of a modern version of William Herschel's 20-foot telescope at the University of Derby.\n\nThe fourth series appeared in January 2014, with the citizen science project asking viewers to look for evidence of gravitational lensing in deep space photographs, which resulted in the discovery of dozens of previously unknown galaxies. The series also featured live broadcasts from Norway with the aim of capturing the aurora borealis on camera; although the show's publicity emphasised that the unpredictable nature of the aurora meant this attempt could easily fail, an unexpectedly large coronal mass ejection that week resulted in strong auroral activity, with live footage of the phenomenon being captured on all three nights.\n\nStargazing Live returned in 2015 but it was not held in the usual January slot which has been the usual month for all previous events, it was held on 18 to 20 March instead to coincide with next total solar eclipse which took place on 20 March 2015.\n\nOn 6 November 2015, the BBC confirmed two special episodes of \"Stargazing Live\" which aired on 15 December 2015, with Dara Ó Briain and Professor Brian Cox, covering the launch of Expedition 46 to the International Space Station with British astronaut Tim Peake aboard. The first special entitled \"Blast Off Live: A Stargazing Special\" covered the launch of Expedition 46 at 11:05 am. A latter programme \"Stargazing Live Special: Tim Peake Docking\" covered the missions' docking with the ISS that same evening.\n\nSimultaneously the BBC confirmed a sixth series of \"Stargazing Live\", which began in January 2016, featuring coverage of Tim Peake aboard the International Space Station.\n\nThe seventh series of Stargazing Live was broadcast from Australia on March 18–20, 2017, taking advantage of the Equinox to match the last three-quarters of an hour of darkness in Australia or an 8:00pm broadcast time in the UK.\n\nIn 2017, following on from the seventh series of BBC Stargazing Live in Australia, ABC TV broadcast an Australia-focused series on 4–6 April 2017, co-anchored by Brian Cox and Australian television presenter Julia Zemiro and featuring \"Kumi Taguchi\". The BBC Australian program was similar to the UK format, as the hosts were joined by professional astrophysicists such as Lisa Harvey-Smith and Chris Lintott, amateur astronomer Greg Quicke, and Indigenous Australian Michael Anderson who shared the astronomical knowledge of Indigenous Australians and their connection with the cosmos. \n\nA second Australian series aired on 22-24 May, 2018. It featured a Guinness World Record for the most people simultaneously observing an object in the night sky, when approximately 40,000 registered citizens watched the moon for 10 minutes on the 23rd May.\n\nEach episode of this series was immediately followed by \"Stargazing Live: Back to Earth\", in which Brian, Dara and their guests discuss the subjects raised in the main show.\nAs with Series 2, each episode was followed by \"Stargazing Live: Back to Earth\".\nAs with Series 2 and 3, each episode was followed by \"Stargazing Live: Back to Earth\".\nStargazing Live 2015 was broadcast on 18, 19 and 20 March to coincide with the Solar eclipse of Friday 20 March 2015 which - cloud permitting - was visible across much of Britain. The eclipse is comparable with the 1999 Solar Eclipse in the Northern most parts of Britain and will be the last total solar eclipse visible in Europe until 26 August 2026.\n\nA 6th series of \"Stargazing Live\" aired on 12–14 January 2016. Only one \"Back to Earth\" episode aired; it was broadcast following the first episode.\n\nSeries 7 of Stargazing Live aired on 28–30 March 2017. The series focused on stargazing and astronomy in Australia, broadcast live from the Siding Spring Observatory. For the first time, the series was followed by the first series of the Australian version of the show from 4–6 April 2017 on ABC.\n\nTwo special episodes of \"Stargazing Live\" aired on 15 December 2015 to cover the launch of Tim Peake into space as part of Expedition 46 to the International Space Station. A special aired on 15 January 2016 to celebrate Peake taking his first spacewalk.\n"}
{"id": "4484317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4484317", "title": "Susan Campbell Bartoletti", "text": "Susan Campbell Bartoletti\n\nSusan Campbell Bartoletti (born 1958) is an American writer of children's literature whose work includes \"Kids on Strike!\" and \"\".\n\nShe was born in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, but eventually the family ended up in a small town in northeastern Pennsylvania. She graduated from the University of Scranton in 1982.\n\nCampbell Bartoletti began her career as an eighth-grade English teacher before deciding to pursue writing in earnest. Seeing her student write and create original work, she was inspired to create her own. In connection with her students, Susan said that \"I felt immense satisfaction in watching my students grow as writers. I wanted to practice what I preached, so I joined a writers group and got serious about my own writing.\" She sold her first short story in 1989. Three years later, in 1992, Campbell Bartoletti published her first picture book, \"Silver at Night.\" She held a rigid routine, waking early in the morning in order to write before she left to teach. In 1997, she turned to writing full-time. Since then, her works have received a number of awards, including the NCTE Orbis Pictus Award for Nonfiction, the SCBWI Golden Kite Award for Nonfiction, the Jane Addams Children's Book Award, and the Newberry Honor Medal in 2006.\n\nShe teaches writing classes at a number of MA and MFA programs, among them Spalding University in Louisville, Kentucky, and Hollins University in Roanoke, Virginia. Additionally, she leads workshops offered through the Highlights Foundation. She resides with her family in Moscow, Pennsylvania.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39726999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39726999", "title": "The Rough Guide to True Crime", "text": "The Rough Guide to True Crime\n\nThe Rough Guide to True Crime is a non-fiction paperback reference guide to national and international true crime cases by American crime writer Cathy Scott. It was released in the UK and US in August 2009 by Penguin Books through its Rough Guides imprint.\n\n\"The Rough Guide to True Crime\" is a compilation of a variety of cases, including historic crimes, with sections broken down by the type of offenses and who committed them. It includes black-and-white photos as illustration. Psychological profiles are included throughout by forensic expert Dr. Louis B. Schlesinger, who explains the psychology of serial killers, murderers, hit men and burglars. The book features serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer, mob hitman Richard \"The Iceman\" Kuklinski, John Wayne Glover \"The Granny Killer,\" and British \"Doctor of Death\" Harold Shipman.\n\nScott's story from \"The Rough Guide to True Crime\" about mob enforcer Herbert Blitzstein was selected for inclusion in the July 2012 retrospective of crime writing, \"Masters of True Crime: Chilling Stories of Murder and the Macabre\".\n\nThe author appeared on BlogTalkRadio's \"True Murder\" show and described some of the crimes included in the book that were committed in the 19th century as \"a different time in America, where people like Billy the Kid could walk in and just rob a bank\" and get away with it. And while \"there was nothing glamorous about what they did, they are a part of lore.\"\n\nThe book was featured at BookExpo America 2009's trade fair in DK Publishing's booth in New York City.\n\nIn a review, \"True Crime Book Reviews\" wrote, \"From the Moors murders and Harold Shipman, to the murder of 2pac, this guide illuminates the psychology in play behind the most intriguing crimes in history, from the absurd to the appalling. \"The Rough Guide to True Crime\" explores the best of the haunting genre of True Crime.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10018718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10018718", "title": "University of Juba", "text": "University of Juba\n\nUniversity of Juba () is a public university located in Juba, South Sudan, founded in 1975 in response to the need for higher education in southern areas of Sudan. Due to the Second Sudanese Civil War (1983 - 2005), the university relocated to Khartoum, for safety of staff, students and infrastructure. In 2006, the government at that time agreed to change the name of the university to Juba National University. Following the attainment of independence by South Sudan in July 2011, the university has relocated back to Juba, where it was founded. The university gives instruction in the English language.\n\nThe University of Juba was established in 1975 in Juba, South Sudan, while the city was still part of Sudan. The university admitted the first students in the 1977 school year. In 2006, while still part of Sudan, the university temporarily relocated to Sudan's capital of Khartoum. Following the independence of South Sudan.\n\n, the university is one of the seven public universities in South Sudan, the other six being the Upper Nile University in Malakal but currently relocated in Juba due to on going civil war, Rumbek University, Rumbek, the University of Bahr El-Ghazal, Wau, the University of Northern Bahr El-Ghazal, Aweil, and John Garang Memorial University in Bor.\n\nThe University of Juba consists of numerous colleges and centers. Their colleges and centers are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "572302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=572302", "title": "Université de Moncton", "text": "Université de Moncton\n\nThe Université de Moncton (abbr. U de M, transl. \"University of Moncton\") is a French-language university located in Edmundston, Moncton and Shippagan, New Brunswick, Canada serving the Acadian community of Atlantic Canada. It is the only francophone university in New Brunswick and is one of only two such universities in the Maritimes, the other being the Université Sainte-Anne in Pointe-de-l'Église, Nova Scotia, Canada. It is also the largest French-language university in Canada outside Quebec.\n\nFounded on 19 June 1963, the modern Université de Moncton is the result of the merger of three colleges: Collège Saint-Joseph (Memramcook, 1864), Collège du Sacré-Cœur (Caraquet, 1899 then Bathurst, 1915), and Collège Saint-Louis (Edmundston, 1946). In 1989, the Université of Moncton founded undergraduate degrees in adult education. Alan Beddoe designed the university coats of arms.\n\nThe National Film Board of Canada documentary \"Acadia Acadia ?!?\" (1971), co-directed by Michel Brault and Pierre Perrault, documents how student protests at the university in 1968–69 sparked an awakening of Acadian nationalism.\n\nThe university is divided into three campuses\n\n\nThe university is a member of L'Association des collèges et des universités de la francophonie canadienne, \"formerly\" L'Association des universités de la francophonie canadienne (en: Association of Colleges and Universities of the Canadian Francophonie, \"formerly\" Association of Universities of the Canadian Francophonie), a network of academic institutions of the Canadian Francophonie.\n\nThe main campus at Moncton has eight faculties:\n\nThe University of Moncton's Faculty of Law is one of only two French-language common law schools in the world. (The University of Ottawa also offers a common law education in French.) The school was founded in 1978 in order to respond to the needs of francophone communities outside Quebec. As Quebec practices civil law, there was a need to instruct francophone lawyers in common law to practice in other parts of Canada. The University of Ottawa law school teaches both common and civil law, as does McGill; thus the University of Moncton's Faculty of Law is the only exclusively French, exclusively common law school in Canada.\n\nU de M offers both the JD and the graduate LLM. The school also offers joint degrees: the JD-MBA (Masters of Business) and JD-MEE (Masters of Environmental Studies). As well, students who already possess a civil law degree (an LL.L or a BCL) from a Canadian school can enroll at U de M for two semesters to complete an LLB.\n\nThe University of Moncton's Medical Training Centre is the first francophone school of medicine in Atlantic Canada. It is a joint medical programme, offered with the Université de Sherbrooke.\n\nL'École de nutrition et d'études familiales has an accredited dietetic program. The university is accredited by a professional organization such as the Dietitians of Canada and the university's graduates may subsequently become registered dietitians. List of universities with accredited dietetic programs\n\nThe faculty of Sciences is located in the Rémi-Rossignol building and covers all cores science subjects, such as: Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biochemistry, Biology, as well as Computer Science.\n\nThere are six libraries and resource centres across the three campuses: Bibliothèque Champlain (Moncton), Bibliothèque Michel-Bastarache (Moncton), (Moncton), Centre de ressources pédagogiques (Moncton), Bibliothèque Rhéa-Larose (Edmundston) and Bibliothèque Shippagan. All records from these libraries are gathered into one catalogue: Catalogue Éloïze.\n\nTwo of these libraries, Michel-Bastarache and Centre de ressources pédagogiques, are special libraries, catering to the Faculty of Law and the Faculty of Education, respectively. The Centre d'études acadiennes, found on the lower level of Bibliothèque Champlain, is a world-renowned and primary resource and archive centre for Acadian studies.\n\nThe university is represented in U Sports (Atlantic University Sport conference) by the Moncton Aigles Bleu. The Aigles Bleus have a male and female hockey team, a male and female soccer team, a male and female athletics team, a male and female cross country running team and a female volleyball team.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33756668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33756668", "title": "Urban Education", "text": "Urban Education\n\nUrban Education is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of urban education. The journal's editor-in-chief is H. Richard Milner (University of Pittsburgh). It was established in 1965 and is published by Sage Publications.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Scopus and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2017 impact factor is 2.1, ranking it 14th out of 40 journals in the category \"Urban Studies\" and 49th out of 238 journals in the category \"Education & Educational Research\".\n"}
{"id": "43884703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43884703", "title": "Vishwas Vasant Mandlik", "text": "Vishwas Vasant Mandlik\n\nVishwas Mandlik , better known as Mandlik sir , was the founder of the \"Yoga Vidya Dham\" and is considered one of the foremost yoga teachers in India. He has written many books on yoga practice and philosophy. On 6 March 2007, Paramhansa Niranjananda Saraswati of Bihar Yoga, initiated him to Rushi Sannayasa (part of higher sannayasa tradition) and gave new name Rushi Dharmajyoti.\n\nMandlik was born in 1944 in Nasik in a middle-class family. He completed his education from Pune. In 1967, he graduated from University of Pune as Bachelor in Electrical engineering from Government College of Engineering, Pune, one of the oldest technical schools in India. During the college days, he won lot of awards on national level in competitive rowing, boating. He also won the prestigious \"Senior Championship\" in 1966.\n\nMandlik started his career as an Engineer in Voltas Transformers Ltd., a Multinational Company in Pune. After working there for 12 years eventually he started his own business of Manufacturing Electrical Distribution Transformers and Industrial Equipments in Nasik in 1978, expanding to Pune and Aurangabad in next few years. Along with his business, he was practicing yoga. He retired from his business in 1995, adopting Yoga Education as his life mission.\n\nMandlik started Yoga Vidya Dham in 1978, utilizing the morning and evening hours for the noble cause of Yoga Education. He has authored more than 40 books and over 200 audio cassettes and cds, 2 software on Yoga Education, applications of Yoga, Yoga as a Therapy, Yoga for Kids, Women etc. He is the Editor of Yoga monthly called \"Yoga Sugandha\" for last 25 years. He is Vice Chancellor of Yoga Vidya Gurukul (Yoga University). He has treated more than 35000 patients suffering from various chronic diseases like Back ache, spondilitis, asthma, diabetes, heart problems, arthritis, hypertension, blood pressure, digestive disorders, psychosomatic disorders and many more through Yoga therapy centers in Nasik and other cities. he conducts various courses, lectures, workshops on stress management, therapy etc. all over India. He has been the source of inspiration to thousands of yoga seekers, volunteers, teachers all over India and other countries as well.\n\nYoga Vidya Dham is one of the big yoga institutes in India. It was founded in 1978 and is working as a Non Profit Organization having 150 branches in Maharashtra alone, 8 in Karnataka, 7 in Eastern part of India. This includes all major cities of Maharashtra including Nasik, Pune, Ahmednager, Kolhapur, Pimpri-Chinchwad etc. It is now expanding in other countries like United States, UK, Italy, Hong Kong, Australia, Ireland etc. More than 450,000 people have completed basic Yoga Pravesh course till today. More than 8500 teachers work all over India conducting classes. Yoga Vidya Dham is running 2 centers in Nasik. Yoga Vidya Dham is a University which imparts Yoga training to students and those aspiring to be yoga teachers. Various courses are conducted at different levels, Yoga Bindu, Yoga Sopan,Yoga Sanjivan,Yoga Pravesh, Yoga Parichay, Yoga Praveen, Yoga Pandit, Yoga Teacher, Yoga Adhyapak and Yoga Pradhyapak.\n\n\nHe is married to Pournima Mandlik who is also a practicing yoga teacher. He has a son named Gandhar Mandlik\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35709968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35709968", "title": "École des technologies numériques appliquées", "text": "École des technologies numériques appliquées\n\nThe École des technologies numériques appliquées (ETNA) is a French private school in computer science localized at Ivry-sur-Seine. Created in 2005 by Patrice Dumoucel, the school since 2006 is part of IONIS Education Group. The certification delivered by the school are recognized by the French state.\n\nThe school is from the same group as EPITA and EPITECH. The partnership ETNA/EPITA/EPITECH allows students to use the equipment to the two other universities. ETNA graduates can proceed to others courses at the IONIS School of Technology and Management or a MBA at the \"Institut supérieur de gestion\". Students of ETNA can prepare major certifications (Microsoft, Cisco Systems, Oracle).\n\nThe course is a three-year dual education system and includes 200 hours of lessons and 400 hours of practical cases study per year.\nTwo specializations are available : software development or system and computer network.\n\nStudents choose one of these two in the second year.\n\nThe main lessons of the first year of study offers the following subjects: management, database, IPv4 network, web technologies, system administration, PHP / web, culture computer, English, mathematics and method.\nThe second year can address the following topics: project, business valuation, English, mathematics, drafting and document analysis, and marketing / business / management.\nDuring the last year, the curriculum includes the subjects: project, English, mathematics, drafting and document analysis, marketing / business / management and psychology work.\n\nSince September 2013, the school will start a new program in 2 years after French \"Baccalauréat\" which will be entirely free. 250 tickets are available. The innovation is that there are graduate students who will pay for the students in training (250 euros per month during three years).\n"}
