{"id": "3637176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3637176", "title": "1070s in architecture", "text": "1070s in architecture\n"}
{"id": "244486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244486", "title": "Angela's Ashes", "text": "Angela's Ashes\n\nAngela's Ashes: A Memoir is a 1996 memoir by the Irish-American author Frank McCourt, with various anecdotes and stories of his childhood. It details his very early childhood in Brooklyn, New York, but focuses primarily on his life in Limerick, Ireland. It also includes his struggles with poverty and his father's alcoholism.\n\nThe book was published in 1996 and won the 1997 Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography. A sequel, \"'Tis\", was published in 1999, followed by \"Teacher Man\" in 2005.\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, New York, on 19 August 1930, Frank (Francis) McCourt is the oldest son of Malachy McCourt and Angela Sheehan McCourt. Both of his parents emigrated from Ireland and married in a shotgun wedding over Angela's pregnancy with Frankie. Angela is originally from Limerick, Ireland, and is fond of music, singing, and dancing. Malachy, from Northern Ireland, is an alcoholic known for his \"odd manner\" and for telling fantastical stories about Irish heroes. Frankie is often said to closely resemble his father, having a hang-dog face and the same \"odd manner.\" The narrative is told from the point of view of Frankie as a child.\n\nIn America, the McCourts live in modern tenement housing next to a park and share a floor, and a communal lavatory, with other immigrant families from Ireland, Italy, and the Jewish communities.\n\nFrankie has four younger siblings: Malachy, born in 1931, who is often favored over Frankie for being an attractive, open child; blond twins Oliver and Eugene, born in 1932; and an infant sister, Margaret, in 1935.\n\nThe family often struggles with poverty as Malachy Sr. engages in an endless struggle to find work and alcohol. The family's prospects, and Angela's spirits, lift whenever he finds a new job and brings home his first week's wages, but eventually he finds himself spending all of his pay in pubs, despite Angela's many schemes to prevent him from doing so, and losing his job after a few weeks.\n\nMargaret's birth seems to instill new life into the family: the whole family falls in love with her, Malachy Sr most of all. He gives up drinking and finds steady work to support the family. However, due to her parents' ignorance of children's disease, Margaret lives for only seven weeks. With her death, Malachy Sr abandons his family for days to indulge in an alcoholic binge, while Angela falls into a severe, debilitating depression. Frank, age six, is forced to feed and care for his younger siblings, often with the kind intervention of the neighbors. The neighbors soon realize the family's dire straits and intervene, contacting Angela's cousins, who in turn recommend the family return to Ireland with Angela's family in Limerick.\n\nAngela is pregnant with a new baby, as they return to Ireland from America, and lose the child, shortly after moving to Limerick.\n\nThe Great Depression has struck Ireland, particularly Limerick, even harder than it did the United States. There is little work, and conditions for poor families are miserable. Malachy Sr finds it even more difficult to find work because of his Northern Ireland accent and mannerisms, the children are mocked for their American accents, and many neighbors, as well as Angela's family, look down on the McCourts for their return from America.\n\nThe family is forced to rely on the dole and charity from the local Society of Saint Vincent de Paul, which requires extensive, and humiliating application processes. Angela and Malachy Sr often argue about this as Malachy drinks the welfare money meant to feed the family, and views Angela's asking for charity as begging and degrading. For many years, the family subsists on little more than bread and tea.\n\nWithin a year of the family's arrival, Oliver and Eugene also die—Oliver of what is implied to be scarlet fever and Eugene, a few months later, from grieving the loss of his twin and malnutrition. After each death, Angela sinks into depression, and the family moves because she cannot bear being in the same house. Each move results in the McCourts sliding down into worse and worse circumstances. Eventually, they end up living in a slum house. The entire ground floor floods for half a year, requiring the family to live in an upstairs room together. Their house is located next to the only lavatory on the whole street. There is a constant traffic of families dumping chamber pots in the filthy lavatory, which often backs up and smells. Two additional baby brothers, Michael (born 1936), and Alphie (Alphonsus, b. 1940), are born in Limerick.\n\nFrankie grows up in Limerick as a sensitive and intelligent child. He often makes unique observations from those around him and has an emotional need to help. His strict Catholic upbringing preys on his imaginative nature and thoughts on whether he will be going to hell plague on his mind. Frankie must balance his Catholic beliefs against a church which frequently rejects him due to his poverty and family, his Irish upbringing against his desire to return to America once he's grown, and his desire for his father's attention against his loyalty to his mother. Strangers often prefer his more attractive and outgoing siblings, but Frankie wins over a few champions, mainly in the form of his school teachers and the various adults who hire him for odd jobs.\n\nFrank develops typhoid fever and is taken to a Catholic hospital, where for the first time he has adequate food, warmth, and access to limitless books, and the time to read them, giving birth to his lifelong love of literature. Frankie additionally contracts chronic conjunctivitis, which does little to improve his looks or perceived, sarcastic demeanor.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II, many Limerick men find work at a defence plant in Coventry, England, leaving their families behind and sending back money to support them. These good-paying jobs lift many of the McCourts' neighbors out of poverty. Malachy Sr leaves the family behind and secures a defence job. For several weeks, the payments allow the family to enjoy small luxuries such as candy and visits to the movies. But soon, the money stops coming and Malachy Sr abandons his family for good.\n\nFrank and his brothers begin to scavenge the streets for coal or peat turf for fuel. They also steal leftover food from restaurants at the end of the day and grocery deliveries from doorsteps.\n\nEventually, the family is evicted and homeless. With few options, Angela and her children move in with her bachelor cousin, Laman Griffin. Laman is a petty tyrant who resents the presence of the children and enjoys degrading them and Angela. A preteen Frankie resents this treatment, but puts up with it for his mother and younger brothers. Upon discovering that part of Laman's deal for providing housing is a sexual relationship with Angela, Frankie has a fight with Laman and is thrown out of the house. Shortly after, Malachy Jr leaves Laman Griffin's to join the military as a bugle boy.\n\nFrankie moves in with his maternal uncle, who was dropped on his head as a child and now lives in the house left to him by his deceased mother. Frank gets a job as a telegram delivery boy on his 14th birthday and begins to support himself while saving for his passage to America. The interesting people and situations Frankie meets on his deliveries cause him to grow as a person.\n\nFrankie supports his youngest brothers by providing food and respite from Laman Griffin when they come to visit him. Eventually, his brothers ask if they can move in with him, which he allows, and they are shortly followed by Angela. Frankie must now turn over the majority of his wages to his mother as the bread winner of the family, though he still takes on various odd jobs to earn extra for his ticket to America, such as writing threatening collection letters on behalf of a local moneylender.\n\nOn his sixteenth birthday, Frank's uncle takes him to the pub to buy him his first beer. Frank gets drunk and returns home, singing like his father used to. When his mother shames him for drinking the way his father did, Frank hits her, accusing her of being a whore for Laman Griffin, and is immediately ashamed of himself.\n\nOne day Frank returns to the moneylender's home to find she has died. Liberated, Frank takes money from her purse and throws her ledger of debtors into the river to free the neighborhood of their debts. The contents of the moneylender's purse give him enough money to return to America at the age of nineteen. Frank arrives in Poughkeepsie, New York, ready to begin a new life in the country of his birth.\n\nMcCourt family\n\nOthers\n\nAfter traveling to America (where the book ends), Frank ended up working at the Biltmore Hotel in New York City, where he remained until 1951. Frank was drafted during the Korean war to be stationed in Bavaria, Germany. After being discharged, Frank returned to New York and dabbled with several different jobs until he was accepted into NYU. After graduating in 1957 with a bachelor's degree in English, McCourt turned to teaching in New York schools. He then obtained his master's degree and traveled to Dublin in pursuit of his PhD, which he never completed.\n\n\"Angela's Ashes\" won several awards, including the 1997 Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography, the 1996 National Book Critics Circle Award (Biography), and the 1997 Boeke Prize.\n\nHe was elected Irish American of the Year in 1998.\n\nMcCourt was accused of greatly exaggerating his family's impoverished upbringing by many Limerick natives, including Richard Harris. McCourt's own mother had denied the accuracy of his stories shortly before her death in 1981, shouting from the audience during a stage performance of his and his brother Malachy's recollections that it was \"all a pack of lies.\"\n\nIn 1999 a film version was released. It was co-written and directed by Alan Parker starring Joe Breen, Ciaran Owens, and Michael Legge, as the Young, Middle and Older Frank McCourt respectively and Emily Watson as McCourt's mother Angela, Robert Carlyle as the father.\n\nThe film begins when the McCourt family move back to Ireland after experiencing hardship in America. Many of the Street scenes were filmed in Cork, Ireland. The film soundtrack was composed and conducted by John Williams, and features songs by Billie Holiday and Sinéad O'Connor.\n\nA stage musical written by Paul Hurt, with music and lyrics by Adam Howell based on the book premiered in the Lime Tree Theatre, Limerick on July 6, 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18368611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18368611", "title": "Arts criticism", "text": "Arts criticism\n\nArts criticism is the process of describing, analyzing, interpreting, and judging works of art. It is distinct from art criticism (which focuses on visual arts) due to its broader remit. The disciplines of arts criticism can be defined by the object being considered rather than the methodology (through analysis of its philosophy): buildings (architecture criticism), paintings (visual art criticism), performances (dance criticism, theatre criticism), music (music journalism), visual media (film criticism, television criticism), or literary texts (literary criticism).\n\nCriticism of the arts can be broadly divided into two types. There is academic criticism such as that found in scholarly works and specialist journals, then there is criticism of a more journalistic nature (often called 'a review') which is seen by a wider public through newspapers, television and radio. The academic criticism will be of a more vigorous and analytical nature than the journalistic, the journalistic may even focus on entertaining the reader at the expense of detail about the art under discussion.\n\n"}
{"id": "38403646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38403646", "title": "At a Window in the Artist's Studio", "text": "At a Window in the Artist's Studio\n\nAt a Window in the Artist's Studio is a drawing by the Danish painter, C. W. Eckersberg. It was done in 1852.\n\nThe drawing shows two girls by a window; these girls are probably the daughters of the artist. They are shown by a window facing Kongens Nytorv in Copenhagen but they are not watching anything on the square; they are reading a book.\n"}
{"id": "449790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449790", "title": "Better Than Chocolate", "text": "Better Than Chocolate\n\nBetter Than Chocolate is a 1999 Canadian romantic comedy movie shot in Vancouver directed by Anne Wheeler.\n\nMaggie (Karyn Dwyer) has recently moved out on her own and has started a relationship with Kim (Christina Cox). However, Maggie's mother Lila (Wendy Crewson) and brother, who are forced to move into her loft sublet with her, are unaware that she is a lesbian. Maggie's freedom is compromised, and she believes she must keep her blossoming affair a secret. However, the clandestine romance introduces Maggie's family to a host of new experiences, many of which are \"better than chocolate\".\n\nThe cast also includes Ann-Marie MacDonald as Frances, the owner of a LGBT bookstore where Maggie works, and Peter Outerbridge as Judy, a trans woman with a crush on Frances.\n\nThe film screened at film festivals around the world and was ranked 31st on \"The Hollywood Reporter\"s Top 200 independent films list of 1999.\n\nThe film was created with a budget of $1.6 million. It was co-produced by Peggy Thompson and Sharon McGowan.\n\nThe film takes its name from a lyric in Sarah McLachlan's song \"Ice Cream\", \"Your love is better than chocolate\". Veena Sood, the sister of McLachlan's then-husband Ashwin Sood, has a small role in the film as a religious protestor.\n\nThe plot line about the bookstore is a fairly direct reference to Vancouver's Little Sister's Book and Art Emporium and its travails with Canada Customs. The bookstore is thanked in the credits. Ann-Marie MacDonald, who plays the bookstore's owner, is a well-known Canadian author.\n\nThe movie poster, which shows two women embracing and one woman's naked back, was banned by the Hong Kong Television and Entertainment Licensing Authority as it was deemed \"offensive to public morality, decency and ordinary good taste.\" An advertisement in the \"San Diego Union-Tribune\" was also removed, due to the word \"lesbian\" being present on the movie poster.\n\nThe soundtrack of the film was released as a CD in 1999 on Lakeshore Records.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "907227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=907227", "title": "Blurb", "text": "Blurb\n\nA blurb is a short promotional piece accompanying a creative work. It may be written by the author or publisher or quote praise from others. Blurbs were originally printed on the back or rear dust-jacket of a book, and are now found on home video cases, web portals, and news websites. A blurb may introduce a newspaper or magazine feature story.\n\nIn the US, the history of the blurb is said to begin with Walt Whitman's collection, \"Leaves of Grass\". In response to the publication of the first edition in 1855, Ralph Waldo Emerson had sent Whitman a congratulatory letter, including the phrase \"I greet you at the beginning of a great career\": the following year, Whitman had these words stamped in gold leaf on the spine of the second edition.\n\nThe word \"blurb\" was coined in 1907 by American humorist Gelett Burgess (1866–1951). His short 1906 book \"Are You a Bromide?\" was presented in a limited edition to an annual trade association dinner. The custom at such events was to have a dust jacket promoting the work and with, as Burgess' publisher B. W. Huebsch described it, \"the picture of a damsel—languishing, heroic, or coquettish—anyhow, a damsel on the jacket of every novel\".\n\nIn this case, the jacket proclaimed \"YES, this is a 'BLURB'!\" and the picture was of a (fictitious) young woman \"Miss Belinda Blurb\" shown calling out, described as \"in the act of blurbing.\" The name and term stuck for any publisher's contents on a book's back cover, even after the picture was dropped and only the text remained.\n\nIn Germany, the blurb is regarded to have been invented by Karl Robert Langewiesche around 1902. In German bibliographic usage, it is usually located on the second page of the book underneath the half title, or on the dust cover.\n\nA blurb on a book can be any combination of quotes from the work, the author, the publisher, reviewers or fans, a summary of the plot, a biography of the author or simply claims about the importance of the work.\n\nIn the 1980s, \"Spy\" ran a regular feature called \"Logrolling in Our Time\" which exposed writers who wrote blurbs for one another's books.\n\nProminent writers can receive large volumes of blurb requests from aspiring authors. This has led some writers to turn down such requests as a matter of policy. For example, Gary Shteyngart announced in \"The New Yorker\" that he would no longer write blurbs, except for certain writers with whom he had a professional or personal connection. Neil Gaiman reports that \"Every now and again, I stop doing blurbs... The hiatus lasts for a year or two, and then I feel guilty or someone asks me at the right time, and I relent.\" Jacob M. Appel reports that he received fifteen to twenty blurb requests per week and tackles \"as many as I can.\"\n\nMany humorous books and films parody blurbs that deliver exaggerated praise by unlikely people and insults disguised as praise.\n\nThe \"Harvard Lampoon\" satire of \"The Lord of the Rings\", entitled \"Bored of the Rings\", deliberately used phony blurbs by deceased authors on the inside cover. One of the blurbs stated \"One of the two or three books ...\", and nothing else.\n\nMovie blurbs are part of the promotional campaign for films, and usually consist of positive, colorful extracts from published reviews.\n\nMovie blurbs have often been faulted for taking words out of context. \"The New York Times\" reported that \"the blurbing game is also evolving as newspaper film critics disappear and studios become more comfortable quoting Internet bloggers and movie Web sites in their ads, a practice that still leaves plenty of potential for filmgoers to be bamboozled. Luckily for consumers, there is a cavalry: blurb watchdog sites have sprung up and the number of Web sites that aggregate reviews by established critics is steadily climbing. ... Helping to keep studios in line these days are watchdog sites like eFilmCritic.com and The Blurbs, a Web column for \"Gelf\" magazine written by Carl Bialik of \"The Wall Street Journal\".\"\n\n\"Slate\" wrote in an \"Explainer\" column: \"How much latitude do movie studios have in writing blurbs? A fair amount. There's no official check on running a misleading movie blurb, aside from the usual laws against false advertising. Studios do have to submit advertising materials like newspaper ads and trailers to the Motion Picture Association of America for approval. But the MPAA reviews the ads for their tone and content, not for the accuracy of their citations. ... As a courtesy, studios will often run the new, condensed quote by the critic before sending it to print.\"\n\nMany examples exist of blurb used in marketing a film being traceable directly back to the film's marketing team.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4072640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4072640", "title": "Bookland", "text": "Bookland\n\n\"Bookland\" is the informal name for the Unique Country Code (UCC) prefix allocated in the 1980s for European Article Number (EAN) identifiers of published books, regardless of country of origin, so that the EAN namespace can catalogue books by ISBN rather than maintaining a redundant parallel numbering system. In other words, Bookland is a fictitious country that exists solely in EAN for the purposes of non-geographically cataloguing books in the otherwise geographically keyed EAN coding system.\n\nUntil January 1, 2007, all ISBNs were allocated as 9-digit numbers followed by a modulo 11 checksum character that was either a decimal digit or the letter X. A Bookland EAN was generated by concatenating the Bookland UCC 978, the 9 digits of the book's ISBN other than its checksum, and the EAN checksum digit.\n\nSince parts of the 10-character ISBN space are nearly full, all books published from 2007 on have been allocated a 13-digit ISBN, which is identical to the Bookland EAN. Most of UCC 979 (formerly \"Musicland\") has now been assigned for the expansion of Bookland, and was first used by publishers in the French language, which can now use the additional prefix \"979-10-\" in addition to the nearly full \"978-2-\" prefix (onto which legacy 10-character ISBNs starting with \"2-\" have been remapped). Books numbered with prefixes other than 978 will not be mappable to 10-character ISBNs.\n\nThe GS1 is the global identification standards organization for retail. Every country has an assigned country code which precedes the company code. The \"country codes\" 978 and 979 are now officially registered for allocation by the International ISBN Agency, which maintains the official international registry of ISBN numbers allocated to book publishers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7950468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7950468", "title": "CINOA", "text": "CINOA\n\nCINOA (\"Confédération Internationale des Négociants en Oeuvres d'Art\", or International Confederation of Art and Antique Dealers' Associations) is a Brussels-based international federation, founded in 1935, of antique and art dealers, representing five thousand dealers from thirty-two art and antique associations in twenty-two countries. \n\nMembership is limited to associations which require their members to adhere to extremely strict quality and expertise standards. Dealers who are affiliated with CINOA through their art and antique trade associations often display the CINOA logo as support of the CINOA charter and guidelines.\n\nThe stated goals of CINOA are to:\n\nSince 1976, CINOA has been awarding a yearly CINOA Prize to art historians or major art market players \"in recognition of an academic publication or a remarkable contribution to furthering the cultural preservation through art works in a CINOA member country\". \n"}
{"id": "34568405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34568405", "title": "Columbia Theatre (Boston)", "text": "Columbia Theatre (Boston)\n\nThe Columbia Theatre (1891-ca.1957) or Loew's New Columbia Theatre in Boston, Massachusetts, was a playhouse and cinema located in the South End at no.978 Washington Street. Charles Frohman, Isaac Baker Rich and William Harris (\"Rich & Harris and Charles Frohman\") oversaw the theatre until 1895. Owners included J.J. Grace of New York and Loews. Staff included Harry Farren, Saul Hamilburg and Philip Shea. The Columbia existed until its demolition in 1957.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1822919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1822919", "title": "Composition (visual arts)", "text": "Composition (visual arts)\n\nIn the visual arts, composition is the placement or arrangement of visual elements or 'ingredients' in a work of art, as distinct from the subject. It can also be thought of as the organization of the elements of art according to the principles of art.\n\nThe composition of a picture is different from its subject, what is depicted, whether a moment from a story, a person or a place. Many subjects, for example Saint George and the Dragon, are often portrayed in art, but using a great range of compositions even though the two figures are typically the only ones shown. \n\nThe term composition means 'putting together' and can apply to any work of art, from music to writing to photography, that is arranged using conscious thought. In the visual arts, composition is often used interchangeably with various terms such as \"design, form, visual ordering,\" or \"formal structure,\" depending on the context. In graphic design for press and desktop publishing, composition is commonly referred to as page layout.\n\nThe various visual elements, known as \"elements of design\", \"formal elements\", or \"elements of art,\" constitute the vocabulary with which the visual artist composes. These elements in the overall design usually relate to each other and to the whole art work.\n\nThe elements of design are:\nLines are optical phenomena that allow the artist to direct the eye of the viewer. The optical illusion of lines do exist in nature and visual arts elements can be arranged to create this illusion. The viewer unconsciously reads near continuous arrangement of different elements and subjects at varying distances. Such elements can be of dramatic use in the composition of the image. These could be literal lines such as telephone and power cables or rigging on boats. Lines can derive also from the borders of areas of differing color or contrast, or sequences of discrete elements. Movement is also a source of line, and blur can also create a reaction.\n\nSubject lines contribute to both mood and linear perspective, giving the viewer the illusion of depth. Oblique lines convey a sense of movement and angular lines generally convey a sense of dynamism and possibly tension. Lines can also direct attention towards the main subject of picture, or contribute to organization by dividing it into compartments. The artist may exaggerate or create lines perhaps as part of their message to the viewer. Many lines without a clear subject point suggest chaos in the image and may conflict with the mood the artist is trying to evoke.\n\nStraight left lines create different moods and add affection to visual arts. A line's angle and its relationship to the size of the frame influence the mood of the image. Horizontal lines, commonly found in landscape photography, can give the impression of calm, tranquility, and space. An image filled with strong vertical lines tends to have the impression of height and grandeur. Tightly angled convergent lines give a dynamic, lively, and active effect to the image. Strongly angled, almost diagonal lines produce tension in the image. The viewpoint of visual art is very important because every different perspective views different angled lines. This change of perspective elicits a different response to the image. By changing the perspective only by some degrees or some centimetres lines in images can change tremendously and a totally different feeling can be transported. Straight lines are also strongly influenced by tone, color, and repetition in relation to the rest of the image.\n\nCompared to straight lines, curves provide a greater dynamic influence in a picture. They are also generally more aesthetically pleasing, as the viewer associates them with softness. In photography, curved lines can give graduated shadows when paired with soft-directional lighting, which usually results in a very harmonious line structure within the image.\n\nThere are three properties of color. Hue, brightness, and value. Hue is simply the name of a color, (red, yellow, and blue, etc.) Brightness refers to the intensity and strength of the color. The lightness and darkness to a color is the value. Color also has the ability to work within our emotions. Given that, we can use color to create mood. It can also be used as tone, pattern, light, movement, symbol, form, harmony, and contrast. \n\nTexture refers to how an object feels or how it looks like it may feel if it were touched. There are two ways we experience texture, physically and optically. Different techniques can be used to create physical texture, which allows qualities of visual art to be seen and felt. This can include surfaces such as metal, sand, and wood. Optical texture is when the illusion of physical texture is created. Photography, paintings, and drawings use visual texture to create a more realistic appearance. \n\nLightness and darkness is what creates value in visual art. Value deals with how light reflects off of objects and how we see it. The more light, the higher the value. White is the highest or lightest value while black is the lowest or darkest value. Colors also have value, for example, yellow has a high value while blue has a low value. This is a very important element of design, especially in painting and drawing, to be able to create the illusion of light with contrast. Contrast is needed to understand two-dimensional artwork. \n\nThe term form can mean different things in visual art. Form suggests a three-dimensional object in space. It is also described as the physical nature of the artwork, such as sculptures. It can also be looked at as art form, which can be expressed through fine art. A form encloses volume, has length, width, and height, unlike a shape, which is only two-dimensional. Forms that are mathematical, a sphere, pyramid, cube, cylinder, and cone, are known as geometric forms. Organic forms are typically irregular and asymmetrical. This form can be found in nature, such as flowers, rocks, trees, etc., but can also be seen in architecture. \n\nForms in drawing and painting convey the illusion of three-dimensional form through lighting, shadows, value, and tone. The more contrast in value, the more pronounced the three-dimensional form is. Forms with little value appear flatter than those with greater variation and contrast.\n\nSpace is the area around, above, and within an object. Photographers can capture space, architects build space, and painters create space. This element is found in each of the visual arts. It can be positive or negative, open or closed, shallow or deep, and two-dimensional or three-dimensional. In drawing or painting, space is not actually there, but the illusion of it is. Positive space is the subject of the piece. The empty spaces around, above, and within, is negative space. \n\nThe artist determines what the center of interest (focus in photography) of the art work will be, and composes the elements accordingly. The gaze of the viewer will then tend to linger over these points of interest, elements are arranged with consideration of several factors (known variously as the \"principles of organization, principles of art,\" or \"principles of design\") into a harmonious whole which works together to produce the desired statement – a phenomenon commonly referred to as unity. Such factors in composition should not be confused with the elements of art (or elements of design) themselves. For example, shape is an \"element\"; the usage of shape is characterized by various \"principles.\"\n\nSome principles of organization affecting the composition of a picture are:\n\nThe position of the viewer can strongly influence the aesthetics of an image, even if the subject is entirely imaginary and viewed \"within the mind's eye\". Not only does it influence the elements within the picture, but it also influences the viewer's interpretation of the subject.\n\nFor example, if a boy is photographed from above, perhaps from the eye level of an adult, he is diminished in stature. A photograph taken at the child's level would treat him as an equal, and one taken from below could result in an impression of dominance. Therefore, the photographer is choosing the viewer's positioning.\n\nA subject can be rendered more dramatic when it fills the frame. There exists a tendency to perceive things as larger than they actually are, and filling the frame full fills this psychological mechanism. This can be used to eliminate distractions from the background.\n\nIn photography, altering the position of the camera can change the image so that the subject has fewer or more distractions with which to compete. This may be achieved by getting closer, moving laterally, tilting, panning, or moving the camera vertically.\n\nThere are numerous approaches or \"compositional techniques\" to achieve a sense of unity within an artwork, depending on the goals of the artist. For example, a work of art is said to be aesthetically pleasing to the eye if the elements within the work are arranged in a balanced compositional way. However, there are artists such as Salvador Dalí who aim to disrupt traditional composition and challenge the viewer to rethink balance and design elements within art works.\n\nConventional composition can be achieved with a number of techniques:\n\nThe rule of thirds is a composition guide that states that arranging the important features of an image on or near the horizontal and vertical lines that would divide the image into thirds horizontally and vertically is visually pleasing. The objective is to stop the subject(s) and areas of interest (such as the horizon) from bisecting the image, by placing them near one of the lines that would divide the image into three equal columns and rows, ideally near the intersection of those lines.\n\nThe rule of thirds is thought to be a simplification of the golden ratio. The golden ratio is thought to have been used by artists throughout history as a composition guide, but there is little evidence to support this claim.\n\nThe \"rule of odds\" suggests that an odd number of subjects in an image is more interesting than an even number. Thus if you have more than one subject in your picture, the suggestion is to choose an arrangement with at least three subjects. An even number of subjects produces symmetries in the image, which can appear less natural for a naturalistic, informal composition.\n\nAn image of a person surrounded/framed by two other persons, for instance, where the person in the center is the object of interest in that image/artwork, is more likely to be perceived as friendly and comforting by the viewer, than an image of a single person with no significant surroundings.\n\nThe rule of space applies to artwork (photography, advertising, illustration) picturing object(s) to which the artist wants to apply the illusion of movement, or which is supposed to create a contextual bubble in the viewer's mind.\n\nThis can be achieved, for instance, by leaving white space in the direction the eyes of a portrayed person are looking, or, when picturing a runner, adding white space in front of him rather than behind him to indicate movement.\n\nImages with clutter can distract from the main elements within the picture and make it difficult to identify the subject. By decreasing the extraneous content, the viewer is more likely to focus on the primary objects. Clutter can also be reduced through the use of lighting, as the brighter areas of the image tend to draw the eye, as do lines, squares and colour. In painting, the artist may use less detailed and defined brushwork towards the edges of the picture.Removing the elements to the focus of the object, taking only the needed components.\n\nIn photography, and also (via software simulation of real lens limitations) in 3D graphics, one approach to achieving simplification is to use a wide aperture when shooting to limit the depth of field. When used properly in the right setting, this technique can place everything that is not the subject of the photograph out of focus.\n\nA similar approach, given the right equipment, is to take advantage of the Scheimpflug principle to change the plane of focus.\n\nRelated to the rule of odds is the observation that triangles are an aesthetically pleasing implied shape within an image. In a canonically attractive face, the mouth and eyes fall within the corners of the area of an equilateral triangle. Paul Cézanne successfully used triangles in his compositions of still lifes. A triangular format creates a sense of stability and strength.\n\nIt is generally thought to be more pleasing to the viewer if the image encourages the eye to move around the image, rather than immediately fixating on a single place or no place in particular. Artists will often strive to avoid creating compositions that feel \"static\" or \"flat\" by incorporating movement into the image. In image A the 2 mountains are equally sized and positioned beside each other creating a very static and uninteresting image. In image B the mountains are differently sized and one is placed closer to the horizon, guiding the eye to move from one mountain to the other creating a more interesting and pleasing image. This also feels more natural because in nature objects are rarely the same size and evenly spaced. \n\nThese principles \"can\" be means of a good composition yet they \"cannot\" be applied separately but should act together to form a good composition.\n\nThese paintings all show the same subject, the Raising of Lazarus, and essentially the same figures, but have very different compositions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2221526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221526", "title": "Depiction", "text": "Depiction\n\nDepiction is reference conveyed through pictures. Basically a picture refers to its object through a non-linguistic two-dimensional scheme. A picture is not writing or notation. A depictive two-dimensional scheme is called a picture plane and may be constructed according to descriptive geometry where they are usually divided between \"projections\" (orthogonal and various oblique angles) and \"perspectives\" (according to number of vanishing points). Pictures are made with various materials and techniques, such as painting, drawing, or prints (including photography and movies) mosaics, tapestries, stained glass, and collages of unusual and disparate elements. Occasionally, picture-like features may be recognised in simple inkblots, accidental stains, peculiar clouds or a glimpse of the moon, but these are special cases, and it is controversial whether they count as genuine instances of depiction. Similarly, sculpture and theatrical performances are sometimes said to depict, but this requires a broad understanding of 'depict', as simply designating a form of representation that is not linguistic or notational. The bulk of studies of depiction however deal only with pictures. While sculpture and performance clearly represent or refer, they do not strictly picture their objects. \nObjects pictured may be factual or fictional, literal or metaphorical, realistic or idealised and in various combination. Idealised depiction is also termed schematic or stylised and extends to icons, diagrams and maps. Classes or styles of picture may abstract their objects by degrees, conversely, establish degrees of the concrete (usually called, a little confusingly, figuration or figurative, since the 'figurative' is then often quite literal). Stylisation can lead to the fully abstract picture, where reference is only to conditions for a picture plane – a severe exercise in self-reference and ultimately a sub-set of pattern.\n\nBut just \"how\" pictures function remains controversial. Philosophers, art historians and critics, perceptual psychologists and other researchers in the arts and social sciences have contributed to the debate and many of the most influential contributions have been interdisciplinary. Some key positions are briefly surveyed below.\n\nTraditionally, depiction is distinguished from denotative meaning by the presence of a mimetic element or resemblance. A picture resembles its object in a way a word or sound does not. Resemblance is no guarantee of depiction, obviously. Two pens may resemble one another but do not therefore depict each other. To say a picture resembles its object especially is only to say that its object is that which it especially resembles; which strictly begins with the picture itself. Indeed, since everything resembles something in some way, mere resemblance as a distinguishing trait is trivial. Moreover, depiction is no guarantee of resemblance to an object. A picture of a dragon does not resemble an actual dragon. So resemblance is not enough.\n\nTheories have tried either to set further conditions to the kind of resemblance necessary, or sought ways in which a notational system might allow such resemblance. It is widely believed that the problem with a resemblance theory of depiction is that resemblance is a symmetrical relation between terms (necessarily, if x resembles y, then y resembles x) while in contrast depiction is at best a non-symmetrical relation (it is not necessary that, if x depicts y, y depicts x). If this is right, then depiction and resemblance cannot be identified, and a resemblance theory of depiction is forced to offer a more complicated explanation, for example by relying on experienced resemblance instead, which clearly is an asymmetrical notion (that you experience x as resembling y does not mean you also experience y as resembling x). Others have argued, however, that the concept of resemblance is not exclusively a relational notion, and so that the initial problem is merely apparent.\n\nIn art history, the history of actual attempts to achieve resemblance in depictions is usually covered under the terms \"realism\", naturalism\", or \"illusionism\".\n\nThe most famous and elaborate case for resemblance modified by reference, is made by art historian Ernst Gombrich. Resemblance in pictures is taken to involve illusion. Instincts in visual perception are said to be triggered or alerted by pictures, even when we are rarely deceived. The eye supposedly cannot resist finding resemblances that accord with illusion. Resemblance is thus narrowed to something like the seeds of illusion. Against the one-way relation of reference Gombrich argues for a weaker or labile relation, inherited from substitution. Pictures are thus both more primitive and powerful than stricter reference.\n\nBut whether a picture can deceive a little while it represents as much seems gravely compromised. Claims for innate dispositions in sight are also contested. Gombrich appeals to an array of psychological research from James J. Gibson, R. L. Gregory, John M. Kennedy, Konrad Lorenz, Ulric Neisser and others in arguing for an 'optical' basis to perspective, in particular (see also perspective (graphical). Subsequent cross-cultural studies in depictive competence and related studies in child-development and vision impairment are inconclusive at best.\n\nGombrich's convictions have important implications for his popular history of art, for treatment and priorities there. In a later study by John Willats (1997) on the variety and development of picture planes, Gombrich's views on the greater realism of perspective underpin many crucial findings.\n\nA more frankly behaviouristic view is taken by the perceptual psychologist James J. Gibson, partly in response to Gombrich. Gibson treats visual perception as the eye registering necessary information for behaviour in a given environment. The information is filtered from light rays that meet the retina. The light is called the stimulus energy or sensation. The information consists of underlying patterns or 'invariants' for vital features to the environment.\n\nGibson's view of depiction concerns the re-presentation of these invariants. In the case of illusions or trompe l'oeil, the picture also conveys the stimulus energy, but generally the experience is of perceiving two sets of invariants, one for the picture surface, another for the object pictured. He pointedly rejects any seeds of illusion or substitution and allows that a picture represents when two sets of invariants are displayed. But invariants tell us little more than that the resemblance is visible, dual invariants only that the terms of reference are the same as those for resemblance\n\nA similar duality is proposed by the philosopher of art Richard Wollheim. He calls it 'twofoldness'. Our experience of the picture surface is called the 'configurational' aspect, and our experience of the object depicted the 'recognitional'. Wollheim's main claim is that we are simultaneously aware of both the surface and the depicted object. The concept of twofoldness has been very influential in contemporary analytic aesthetics, especially in the writings of Dominic Lopes and of Bence Nanay. Again, illusion is forestalled by the prominence of the picture surface where an object is depicted. Yet the object depicted quite simply \"is\" the picture surface under one reading, the surface indifferent to picture, another. The two are hardly compatible or simultaneous. Nor do they ensure a reference relation.\n\nWollheim introduces the concept of 'seeing-in' to qualify depictive resemblance. Seeing-in is a psychological disposition to detect a resemblance between certain surfaces, such as inkblots or accidental stains, etc. and three-dimensional objects. The eye is not deceived, but finds or projects some resemblance to the surface. This is not quite depiction, since the resemblance is only incidental to the surface. The surface does not strictly refer to such objects. Seeing-in is a necessary condition to depiction, and sufficient when in accordance with the maker's intentions, where these are clear from certain features to a picture. But seeing-in cannot really say in what way such surfaces resemble objects either, only specify where they perhaps first occur.\n\nWollheim's account of how a resemblance is agreed or modified, whereby maker and user anticipate each other's roles, does not really explain how a resemblance refers, but rather when an agreed resemblance obtains.\n\nThe appeal to broader psychological factors in qualifying depictive resemblance is echoed in the theories of philosophers such as Robert Hopkins, Flint Schier and Kendall Walton. They enlist 'experience', 'recognition' and 'imagination' respectively. Each provides additional factors to an understanding or interpretation of pictorial reference, although none can explain how a picture resembles an object (if indeed it does), nor how this resemblance is then also a reference.\n\nFor example, Schier returns to the contrast with language to try to identify a crucial difference in depictive competence. Understanding a pictorial style does not depend upon learning a vocabulary and syntax. Once grasped, a style allows the recognition of any object known to the user. Of course recognition allows a great deal more than that – books teaching children to read often introduce them to many exotic creatures such as a kangaroo or armadillo through illustrations. Many fictions and caricatures are promptly recognised without prior acquaintance of either a particular style or the object in question. So competence cannot rely on a simple index or synonymy for objects and styles.\n\nSchier's conclusion that lack of syntax and semantics in reference then qualifies as depiction, leaves dance, architecture, animation, sculpture and music all sharing the same mode of reference. This perhaps points as much to limitations in a linguistic model.\n\nReversing orthodoxy, the philosopher Nelson Goodman starts from reference and attempts to assimilate resemblance. He denies resemblance as either necessary or sufficient condition for depiction but surprisingly, allows that it arises and fluctuates as a matter of usage or familiarity.\n\nFor Goodman, a picture denotes. Denotation is divided between description, covering writing and extending to more discursive notation including music and dance scores, to depiction at greatest remove. However, a word does not grow to resemble its object, no matter how familiar or preferred. To explain how a pictorial notation does, Goodman proposes an analogue system, consisting of undifferentiated characters, a density of syntax and semantics and relative repleteness of syntax. These requirements taken in combination mean that a one-way reference running from picture to object encounters a problem. If its semantics is undifferentiated, then the relation flows back from object to picture. Depiction can acquire resemblance but must surrender reference. This is a point tacitly acknowledged by Goodman, conceding firstly that density is the antithesis of notation and later that lack of differentiation may actually permit resemblance. A denotation without notation lacks sense.\n\nNevertheless, Goodman's framework is revisited by philosopher John Kulvicki and applied by art historian James Elkins to an array of hybrid artefacts, combining picture, pattern and notation.\n\nPictorial semiotics aims for just the kind of integration of depiction with notation undertaken by Goodman, but fails to identify his requirements for syntax and semantics. It seeks to apply the model of structural linguistics, to reveal core meanings and permutations for pictures of all kinds, but stalls in identifying constituent elements of reference, or as semioticians prefer, 'signification'. Similarly, they accept resemblance although call it 'iconicity' (after Charles Sanders Peirce, 1931–58) and are uncomfortable in qualifying its role. Older practitioners, such as Roland Barthes and Umberto Eco variously shift analysis to underlying 'connotations' for an object depicted or concentrate on description of purported content at the expense of more medium-specific meaning. Essentially they establish a more general iconography.\n\nA later adherent, Göran Sonesson, rejects Goodman's terms for syntax and semantics as alien to linguistics, no more than an ideal and turns instead to the findings of perceptual psychologists, such as J. M. Kennedy, N. H. Freeman and David Marr in order to detect underlying structure. Sonesson accepts 'seeing-in', although prefers Edmund Husserl's version. Resemblance is again grounded in optics or the visible, although this does not exclude writing nor reconcile resemblance with reference. Discussion tends to be restricted to the function of outlines in schemes for depth.\n\nThe art historian Norman Bryson persists with a linguistic model and advances a detail of parsing and tense, 'deixis'. He rejects resemblance and illusion as incompatible with the ambiguities and interpretation available to pictures and is also critical of the inflexible nature of structuralist analysis. Deixis is taken as the rhetoric of the narrator, indicating the presence of the speaker in a discourse, a bodily or physical aspect as well as an explicit temporal dimension. In depiction this translates as a difference between 'The Gaze' where deixis is absent and 'The Glance' where it is present. Where present, details to materials indicate how long and in what way the depiction was made, where absent, a telling suppression or prolonging of the act. The distinction attempts to account for the 'plastic' or medium-specific qualities absent from earlier semiotic analyses and somewhat approximates the 'indexic' aspect to signs introduced by Peirce.\n\nDeixis offers a more elaborate account of the picture surface and broad differences to expression and application but cannot qualify resemblance.\n\nLastly, iconography is the study of pictorial content, mainly in art, and would seem to ignore the question of how to concentrate upon what. But iconography's findings take a rather recondite view of content, are often based on subtle literary, historical and cultural allusion and highlight a sharp difference in terms of resemblance, optical accuracy or intuitive illusion. Resemblance is hardly direct or spontaneous for the iconographer, reference rarely to the literal or singular. Visual perception here is subject to reflection and research, the object as much reference as referent.\n\nThe distinguished art historian Erwin Panofsky allowed three levels to iconography. The first is 'natural' content, the object recognised or resembling without context, on a second level, a modifying historical and cultural context and at a third, deeper level, a fundamental structure or ideology (called iconology). He even ascribed the use of perspective a deep social meaning (1927). However more recently, a natural or neutral level tends to be abandoned as mythical. The cultural scholar W. J. T. Mitchell looks to ideology to determine resemblance and depiction as acknowledgement of shifts in relations there, albeit by an unspecified scheme or notation.\n\nIconography points to differences in scope for a theory of depiction. Where stylistics and a basic object is nominated, resemblance is prominent, but where more elaborate objects are encountered, or terms for nature denied, simple perception or notation flounder. The difference corresponds somewhat to the division in philosophy between the analytic and continental.\n\nDozens of factors influence depictions and how they are represented. These include the equipment used to create the depiction, the creator’s intent, vantage point, mobility, proximity, publication format, among others, and, when dealing with human subjects, their potential desire for impression management.\n\nOther debates about the nature of depiction include the relationship between seeing something in a picture and seeing face to face, whether depictive representation is conventional, how understanding novel depictions is possible, the aesthetic and ethical value of depiction and the nature of realism in pictorial art.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3867715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3867715", "title": "Donald Kuspit", "text": "Donald Kuspit\n\nDonald Kuspit (born March 26, 1935) is an American art critic, poet, and Distinguished Professor Emeritus of art history and philosophy at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and former professor of art history at the School of Visual Arts. Kuspit is one of America's most distinguished art critics. He was formerly the A. D. White Professor-at-Large at Cornell University (1991–1997). He received the Frank Jewett Mather Award for Distinction in Art Criticism in 1983 (given by the College Art Association). In 1983 he received an honorary doctorate in fine arts from Davidson College, in 1996 from the San Francisco Art Institute, and in 2007 from the New York Academy of Art. In 1997 the National Schools of Art and Design presented him with a citation for Distinguished Service to the Visual Arts. In 1998 he received an honorary doctorate of humane letters from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. In 2000 he delivered the Getty Lectures at the University of Southern California. In 2005 he was the Robertson Fellow at the University of Glasgow. In 2008 he received the Tenth Annual Award for Excellence in the Arts from the Newington-Cropsey Foundation. In 2014 he was the first recipient of the Gabarron Foundation Award for Cultural Thought. He has received fellowships from the Ford Foundation, Fulbright Commission, National Endowment for the Arts, National Endowment for the Humanities, Guggenheim Foundation, and Asian Cultural Council, among other organizations. He has doctorates in philosophy (University of Frankfurt)and art history (University of Michigan), as well as degrees from Columbia University, Yale University, and Pennsylvania State University. He has also completed the course of study at the Psychoanalytic Institute of the New York University Medical Center.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1160232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160232", "title": "Duenos inscription", "text": "Duenos inscription\n\nThe Duenos inscription is one of the earliest known Old Latin texts, variously dated from the 7th to the 5th century BC. It is inscribed on the sides of a \"kernos\", in this case a trio of small globular vases adjoined by three clay struts. It was found by Heinrich Dressel in 1880 on the Quirinal Hill in Rome. The \"kernos\" belongs to the Staatliche Museen in Berlin (inventory no. 30894,3).\n\nThe inscription is written right to left in three units, without spaces to separate words. It is difficult to translate, as some letters are hard to distinguish, particularly since they cannot always be deduced by context. The absence of spaces causes additional difficulty in assigning the letters to the respective words.\n\nThere have been many proposed translations advanced by scholars since the discovery of the \"kernos\"; by 1983, more than fifty different explanations of the meaning had been put forward. Due to the lack of a large body of archaic Latin, and the method by which Romans abbreviated their inscriptions, scholars have not been able to produce a singular translation that has been accepted by historians as accurate. However thanks to Arthur E. Gordon's work the reading of the text can be now considered certain.\n\nBelow is the transcription and one of many possible interpretations:\n\nLine 1:\n\nLine 2:\n\nLine 3:\n\nAn interpretation set out by Warmington and Eichner, renders the complete translation as follows, though not with certainty:\n\n\"Duenos\" is an older form of Classical Latin ('good'), just as Classical ('war') is from Old Latin \"duellum\". Some scholars posit Duenos as a proper name, instead of merely an adjective.\n\nThe Praenestine fibula is thought by some to be the earliest surviving evidence of the Latin language dating to the 7th century BC, but has been alleged by Margherita Guarducci to have been a well-informed hoax; however, the evidence is only circumstantial and there are no clear indications pointing to a forgery. Although these claims have been disproven, as a new analysis performed in 2011 declared it to be genuine \"beyond any reasonable doubt\".\n\nThe inscription (CIL I 2nd 2, 4) is scratched along the side of the body of three vases made of dark brown \"bucchero\", connected with each other by short cylindric arms. It is written from right to left spiralling downwards about times. The letters are written upside-down for a reader who looks at the inscription from a level position; this has been explained by Aldo Luigi Prosdocimi as due to the fact that the inscription was meant to be read from above, not from a sideways position. Some letters are written in an archaic fashion that appears influenced by the Greek alphabet. There are signs of corrections in the two or of and and in the of . Three distinct sections are individuated by spaces after and . There are neither spaces delimiting words nor signs of interpunction. The earliest interpunction to appear was syllabic. As it appeared only in the 7th century BC, the inscription should be more ancient.\n\nThe inscription is made up by two distinct parts or sections, the second one beginning with the word . It was found in a votive deposit (\"favissa\"). It belongs to the kind known as \"speaking inscriptions\", widely in use in the Archaic period. Some scholars consider the object to be of good quality and reflecting the high social status of the owner. Others consider it common.\n\nThe vase was bought from an antiquarian by Heinrich Dressel shortly after its find. It was discovered in 1880 by workers who were digging to lay the foundation of a building near the newly opened Via Nazionale, in the valley between the Quirinal Hill and the Viminal Hill. More precisely it was found on the south slope of the Quirinal, near the church of San Vitale, Rome. Dressel was told the place was supposed to have been a burial site.\n\nArcheologist Filippo Coarelli has advanced the hypothesis that the object might have been placed in the votive deposit of one of the temples of goddess Fortuna dedicated by king Servius Tullius, perhaps the one known as \"Fortuna Publica\" or \" Citerior\", i.e. located on the side of the Quirinal near to Rome. Her festival recurred on the \"nonae\" of April (April 5). However June 11, the festival day of the Matralia, which was originally devoted to \"Mater Matuta\", was also the day of the \"Fortuna Virgo\", ritually associated with the passage of girls from adolescence into adulthood and married life.\n\nThe antiquity of the document is generally acknowledged. The language shows archaic characters in morphology, phonetics and syntax. The absence of \"u\" after \"q\" would testify to its greater antiquity comparatively to the inscription of the \"cippus\" of the Forum, also known as Lapis Niger (CIL I 1).\n\nFor the sake of convenience of interpretation, the text is usually divided into two sections, the first one containing the first two units and ending with . The two sections show a relative syntactic and semantic independence.\n\nMany attempts have been made at deciphering the text.\n\nIn the 1950s the inscription had been interpreted mainly on the basis of (and in relation to) the supposed function of the vases, considered either as containers for a love philter or of beauty products: the text would then mockingly threaten the owner about his behaviour towards the vase itself or try to attract a potential buyer. This is the so-called erotic line of interpretation which found supporters until the eighties.\n\nDuring the 1960s Georges Dumézil proposed a new line of thought in the interpreting of the text. He remarked the inconsistency of the previous interpretations both with the solemnity of the opening formula (\"Iovesat deivos qoi med mitat\": 'He swears for the gods who sends /delivers me') and with the site of the find. Dumézil's interpretation was: \"If it happens that the girl is not nice to you/ has no easy relationship with you (\"\"nei ted endo cosmis virco sied\" = \"ne in te (=erga te) cosmis virgo sit\"), we shall have the obligation of bringing her and you into good harmony, accord, agreement (\"asted noisi ... pakari vois\"=\"at sit nobis ... pacari vobis\"\"). The transmission of the object would be expressed by the words \"qoi med mitat\". The story mirrored in the text would thus depict a custom deeply rooted in Roman society that is described by Plautus in the scene of the Menaechmi in which the \"tutor\" of the \"virgo\" or his representatives formally give a suretyship about her attitude towards a man.\n\nDumézil's interpretation though was fraught with linguistic problems. Apart from the value of the before , which he considered meaningless or an error of the incisor, the only possible meaning of \"ope\" in Latin is 'by the power or force of', and it governs a word in the genitive case. Thence the only governing word could be the group : this would then be an exception to the rule of the genitive of the themes in \"-a\", which does not end in \"-as\" as expected, an archaism perhaps in Dumézil's view. would then denote the means by which the \"nois(i)\", 'we', would have the authority of establishing peace between the 'vois' 'you' (the couple) of the main relationship justifying the delivery of the vase. Dumézil thinks of the involvement of more than one \"tutor\" for each party in order to explain the two plurals \"nois(i)\" and \"vois\". Lastly the ending presents difficulties. It might derive from an archaic \"-e-s-la\" as proposed by H. Osthoff in the formation of Latin abstract names with an assimilation of the liquid into an \"i\". Another possibility would be to interpret the suffix \"-ela\" as \"-e-la\", i.e. as a female derivation of an ancient neuter \"-el\" attested in Hittite. This would entail admitting the incisor made two errors.\n\nAntonino Pagliaro understood the word as an adjective from noun \"tutela\", \"ope tuteria\", i.e. \"ope tutoria\" in classical Latin: the word would thence be an attribute in the ablative.\n\nDumézil's contribution and the location of the find gave researchers grounds to pursue their work of interpretation in the same direction, i.e. of its significance as a token of legal obligation. The efforts have centred on deciphering of the last segment of the first section, .\n\nAs already mentioned above, the cult of \"Fortuna Virgo\", celebrated on the day of the Matralia, was related to the role of girls who became married women. The passage saw girls as completely passive subjects both during the archaic period and great part of the republican: the matrimonial exchange was conducted, as far as legally relevant profiles were concerned, by the subjects who had \"potestas\" on the woman and by the future husband (or he/those who had \"potestas\" over him). This is testified by the fact the \"virgo\" had no right of pronouncing the \"nupta verba\".\n\nThe passage which presents the greatest difficulties is the central group of letters in the string . Proposed interpretations include: \"iubet\" orders for ; \"futuitioni\" sexual intercourse for , the cut / or / so that would be the only recognisable Latin word.\n\nDumézil attributes a peculiar semantic value to the syllabic group : a moral instrument that is nothing else than a form of the power the males of a family group (father, tutors) exercised on a girl, i.e. a variant or alteration of the word \"tutelae\", similar to \"tu(i)tela\". Since this interpretation has been proposed no critic has been able to disprove it. Authoritative scholars on the grounds of the lexeme \"toitesiai\" have proposed a theonym (Coarelli), a feminine proper name Tuteria (Peruzzi, Bolelli), or even a \"gentilicium\", the gens Titur(n)ia (Simon and Elboj) mentioned by Cicero.\n\nIn the 1990s, two further contributions have discussed once again the interpretation of the second part of the first grapheme, particularly morpheme \"toitesiai\". Even though doubts have been cast over its correspondence with the technical Roman legal word \"tutela\", Dumézil intuition of recognising in the destination of the vase a juridical function, namely a matrimonial \"sponsio\", was accepted and taken on.\n\nG. Pennisi reconstructs the text as follows: \"Iovesat deivos qoi med mitat: nei ted cosmis virgo sied ast ednoisi opetoi pakari vois. Duenos med feced en manom einom duenoi ne med malos tatod\". Segment is deciphered recurring to Homeric έεδνα in the meaning of nuptial gifts and the speaking token would be a marriage compact or promise by a young man in love to a girl to whom the vase is presented as a gift. The inscription would thence exhibit an oath structure consisting in an archaic form of \"coemptio\": \"Swears for the gods he who buys me\": \"mitat = *emitat\" (the future bridegroom would be speaking in the third person). Then passing to the second person the compact would be set out in the second line by the offering of the nuptial gifts as a guarantee. The third line would complete the legal formula of the compact (\"Duenos / ne med malos tatod\").\nLeo Peppe has proposed to interpret the inscription as a primitive form of matrimonial \"coemptio\" different from that presented in Gaius, consisting in a cumulative acceptance that included both the legal aspects concerning the transmission of the dotal assets and the religious ones inherent in the matrimonial cults and rites.\n\nF. Marco Simon and G. Fontana Elboj (autopsy) confirmed the interpretation of the previous proposals that see in the vase the symbol of a marriage compact. The authors ground their interpretation on the segment instead of . They therefore identified a root \"*o-it\" (composed by prefix \"*o\" and lexeme \"*i-\", cf. Latin \"eo\") related to classic Latin \"utor\", and suffix \"-esios/a\" (cf. \"Valesios\" of the Lapis Satricanus and \"Leucesie\" of the carmen Saliare). The substantive \"oitesiai\" would be thus related to the semantic field of \"utor\" i.e. the concept of \"utilitas\". Therefore, the text should be divided as: \"asted noisi; opet otesiai pakari vois\". \"Opet\" would be an articulatory fusion between the dative \"opi\" and conjunction \"et\". The whole text should thus be understood as: \"Ni erga te virgo comis sit, asted nobis; (iurat) opi et utilitati pangi vois\", 'if the girl is not to your taste/agreeable to you, let her go back to us; (he swears) to give you guarantee about your disturb and your interest'. The segment \"oitesiai\" could be also understood as \"utensilium\" referred to the vase itself as a token of suretiship or \"usus\" in the technical legal sense of Roman marriage as a way of providing a guarantee. The last two hypotheses are, however, considered unacceptable by the authors on the grounds that no genitive marker is to be found in the segment \"oitesiai\".\nThe proposed interpretation would find support in its strict analogy with a passage of Terentius's Hecyra (vv. 136–151), in which a story similar to that supposedly recorded on the vase is described. The text would thus be the undertaking of an obligation concerning the eventuality that the girl go back to her family of origin, should she be not liked by the bridegroom (\"asted endo cosmis virco sied, asted noisi\").\n\nEven after the last two contributions related above, Sacchi acknowledges that all attempts at interpreting the segment remain conjectural.\n\nDumézil's hypothesis of a protoform of \"tutela\", though attractive and plausible, remains unconfirmed.\n\nAlthough there are still obscure points in the interpretation of line two, it is generally accepted that the text contains the formula of an oath. On the archaic oath and its juridical value there is large agreement among scholars. It looks also probable that the object should have a religious implication: an instrument permeated by religious ritualism, as the oath could well be employed in legal practice at the time of the object, as seems supported by linguistic analysis. The usage of the oath in archaic times as an instrument of private civil law could have been widespread, even though the issue has not yet been thoroughly analysed. Even though in the inscription there is no segment directly reminiscent of the dialogic formula of the \"sponsio\", i.e. \"\"spondes tu ...?\", \"spondeo!\"\", internal and external evidence allow the assumption of the enactment of a matrimonial \"sponsio\". Such a usage of oaths is attested in later literary sources.\n\nBesides the trace of a \"sponsio\" as the legal function of the object, Dumézil would also see that of providing a piece evidence, i.e. a probatory attitude. Servius in his commentary to the \"Aeneid\" writes that, before the introduction of the matrimonial tablets, in Latium the parties used to exchange tokens of pledge (\"symbola\") on which they stated as a promise that they agreed to the marriage and nominated guarantors (\"sponsores\"). To the same time of the regal period is ascribed the introduction of the Greek use of double scriptures, \"tesserae\".\n\nThe sponsio is one of the most ancient forms of verbal undertaking of obligation and its religious nature is acknowledged, as well as its connection with betrothal. The ancient sources are in agreement that the archaic \"sponsalia\" had a religious nature.\n\nBrent Vine's study which focuses on the linguistic analysis of the word of the first sentence and of the segment of the third lends support to such an interpretation: he argues that \"mitat\" would be a form of a frequentative verb \"mitare\" based on a past participle in -\"to\" of an IE root \"*meɨ̯\", with the meaning of 'exchange'. Semantically this frequentative should be considered factitive, thence arriving at a verb that would mean 'to cause to be given in exchange', hence 'to give (in exchange)'. Vine's analysis of the segment fits the hypothesis of an exchange of \"symbola\" equally well. He argues that a word could be isolated on the grounds of the single spelling of geminates which is considered normal by linguists for the archaic period. This he proposes to understand as reflecting a substantivised \"*méi̯-no-\", meaning 'something given in exchange, gift' from the same root \"*mei̯ \" as in . This form would be a -\"no\" substantive, a widely attested formation and may be presupposed by Latin \"mūnus, mūneris\" 'duty, service, office, offering', from immediate antecedent \"*mói̯-n-es-\". The appearance of \"mitat\" and \"[m]einom\" show a semantic contiguity and may constitute a figura etymologica. This alliterative form would be analogous to the Old Latin phrase \"donum do\", \"donum\" being formed exactly in the same way as supposed for \"[m]einom\" (\"*déh3-no-\"). \"*Meinom mito\" would have existed beside \"donum do\", both referring to similar but culturally distinct behaviours, the first one perhaps \"specifically involving exchange/reciprocity\".\n\nThe document raises also the question of the kind of the marriage in question, and specifically of whether it was with or without \"manus\". Dumézil supported the thesis of a marriage without loss the independent status of the woman (\"sine capitis deminutio\"). In the last case it should be admitted that in archaic times a form of marriage existed in which the \"sponsio\" was directly linked to the \"nuptiae\", independently from the initial constitution of the \"manus\". The \"sponsalia\" would then be the occasion upon which the legal subjects defined the compacts concerning the juridical and economic aspects of the marriage: the dowry, the future legal status of the woman who could be put under the \"potestas/tutela\" of one or more persons, the compensations for a passage of status of the woman and the guarantees for breach of promise. Two strata were perhaps present as testified by the expression \"more atque iure\" of Gellius.\n\nThen the object in question could well have been deposited in a temple upon the occasion of a marriage ritual as a probatory document of an engagement undertaken not by the girl but by her \"sponsor\". The compact would be also a legal guarantee of the rights of the future bridegroom.\n\nThe most relevant issue for the interpretation of the document in Sacchi's view is the meaning the lexical couple . The meaning of \"Duenos\" has been often considered to be the name of the craftsman who made the object. Such an interpretation meets with the difficulty of how to explain the second occurrence of the word and with the problem of how to interpret , since if \"Duenos\" is a name identifying a person and qualifying him as 'good' then it would difficult to understand the use of \"manom\" in the same sense of 'good'. It should be easier to understand \"manom\" as \"manum\" ('hand'), i.e. reading: \"Duenos made me with his own hands\".\n\nSacchi, following Palmer and Colonna, proposes to interpret the couple as conveying a specifically technical religious and legal meaning as is testified in ancient sources. \"Duenos\" has given classic Latin \"bonus\", 'good', but originally the adjective had certainly religious and sacral implications: in the oldest sacral formulae it had a more technical acception and the repetition had other implications than just eurythmy. Colonna refers to the formula \"optumus duonorum\" of the mid republic which was a qualificative formula with sacral implication reserved to the upper classes. Correspondences are the opposition of the epithets \"Optimus\" and \"Maximus\" of Capitoline Jupiter, the early Faliscan \"Titia\" inscription \"Eco quton euotenosio titias duenom duenas. Salu[...]voltene\" interpreted as 'good among the good', the epitaph of Lucius Cornelius Scipio, the consul of 259 BC, \"duonoro[m] optumo[m]... viro[m]\" in which clearly the adjective \"duonus\" is not the synonym of \"optumus\", that as derived from \"ops\", plenty, has different semantic connotations. Colonna also reminds that \"in the carmen Saliare (similarly to the Duenos vase) \"bonus\" (\"duonus\") and \"manus\" occur together, both referred to the same character, the god \"Cerus\", fact that makes their synonymity implausible\". In order to further clarify the use of the adjective in the text, Sacchi makes reference also to a well-known passage of Cicero's \"De Legibus\" II 9, 22: \"Deorum Manium iura sancta sunto. (B)onos leto datos divos habento ...\". Here too as in the above two instances \"one can remark the opposition between \"Manium\", that, as shown in Paulus exc. Festi, originally meant 'the good ones' and the qualificative (B)onos = Duenos as referred to the deified dead (= \"divos\"). Cicero here relates a pontifical prescription of high antiquity consciously preserving the original wise of expression and lexic\". In other words, one could argue that it is not meant that the \"dii Manes\" become 'good' in the ethic sense, but rather that the dead consecrated to death according to the pontifical prescriptions (\"leto datos\") do become gods (= \"divos\"). The epithet \"duenos\" would then design that which has been given in homage, consecrated correctly according to the pontifical ritual.\n\nSacchi opines that in the case of the Duenos inscription the speaker is acting according to the religious legal ritual, presumably enacting a private \"consecratio\": the formula of the dedication is then a case of private \"dedicatio dis\", dedication to the gods. The epithet \"duenos\" should therefore be interpreted as used in its original technical sense. The restitution of the text should thus be: \"A party acting in the way sanctioned by religious law made/consecrated me for a good end. That no harm/fraud be done to me and to one who is a party (equally) religiously sanctioned by the gods\". The vase is a speaking token that after the celebration of the ritual consecrates the content of the action, of which it is \"the form in its probatory function and the matter as a constituent element\".\n\nVine quotes German authors who still follow the erotic thread of interpretation. They think of the vase as a container for beauty products and interpret the last phrase as 'let no evil person steal me'. \" would be a form of a Latin verb \"*stare\" that failed to survive for its \"homonymie fâcheuse\" [unfortunate homonymy] with the ordinary verb for 'stand, as found in Hittite \"tāyezzi\" 'steals', Vedic \"stená-stāyú\" 'thief'.\n\nBoth Sacchi and Vine remark the striking parallelism between the formula of the Duenos inscription: and the inscription on a pedestal (probably of a votive statue) from Tibur: . Vine finds in it support for his interpreting of as meaning \"munus\".\n\nSacchi rejects the interpretation of \"cosmis\" as \"agreeable\" in the first section that is traditionally accepted in the scholarly literature, on the grounds of considerations of history of the language and semantics. He proposes to interpret the term as referring to the peculiar style of hairdressing of brides, known as \"seni crines\" which would find support in Festus: \"\"Comptus id est ornatus ... qui apud nos comis: et comae dicuntur capilli cum aliqua cura compositi\", '\"Comptus\", that is adorned, ... what we call \"comis\"; and \"comae\" is named the hair dressed with a certain care'. In the inscription the use of this word would be an explicit allusion to the fact that the girl shall be ready to marry. Festus gives it as a most ancient custom for marriage ceremonies. An analogous usage of the word \"comis\" is to be found in Gellius while relating the custom of \"flaminica dialis\" on the occasion of the Argei.\n\n"}
{"id": "47830582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47830582", "title": "Effie T. Brown", "text": "Effie T. Brown\n\nEffie T. Brown is a film and television producer known for such films as \"Rocket Science\", \"Real Women Have Curves\", \"Everyday People\", \"Desert Blue\", \"Dear White People\", and \"But I'm a Cheerleader\". She is seen in the fourth season of \"Project Greenlight\" as a producer on that season's film project \"The Leisure Class\".\n\nIn the fourth season premiere of Project Greenlight, Effie Brown, along with director Peter Farrelly and actors Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, met to decide which filmmakers would be chosen to direct a feature film for the show. Among the finalists considered were a directing team of an Asian American man, Leo Angelos, and a white woman, Kristen Brancaccio. Effie Brown expressed her support of this team, stating that <nowiki>\"I would just urge people to think about whoever this director is, the way that they’re going to treat the character of Harmony, her being a prostitute,” Brown counters. “[She’s] the only black person, being a hooker who gets hit by her white pimp.\"</nowiki> Damon, feeling frustration that the show had not properly cast more diverse filmmakers for the competition, responded that \"when you’re talking about diversity, you do it in the casting of the film, not the casting of the show.\" Critics of Damon's comments stated that he was \"mansplaining\" and \"whitesplaining\" diversity to Effie Brown and accused him of being racially tone deaf. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7661053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7661053", "title": "Exploding Plastic Inevitable", "text": "Exploding Plastic Inevitable\n\nThe Exploding Plastic Inevitable, sometimes simply called Plastic Inevitable or EPI, was a series of multimedia events organized by Andy Warhol between 1966 and 1967, featuring musical performances by The Velvet Underground and Nico, screenings of Warhol's films, and dancing and performances by regulars of Warhol's Factory, especially Mary Woronov and Gerard Malanga. \"Andy Warhol's Exploding Plastic Inevitable\" is also the title of an 18-minute film by Ronald Nameth with recordings from one week of performances of the shows which were filmed in Chicago, Illinois, in 1966. In December 1966 Warhol included a one-off magazine called \"The Plastic Exploding Inevitable\" as part of the \"Aspen\" No. 3 package.\n\nThe \"Exploding Plastic Inevitable\" had its beginnings in an event staged on January 13, 1966, at a dinner for the New York Society for Clinical Psychiatry. This event, called \"Up-Tight\", included performances by the Velvet Underground and Nico, along with Malanga and Edie Sedgwick as dancers and Barbara Rubin as a performance artist. Inaugural shows were held at the Dom in New York City in April 1966, advertised in \"The Village Voice\" as follows: \"The Silver Dream Factory Presents The Exploding Plastic Inevitable with Andy Warhol/The Velvet Underground/and Nico.\" Shows were also held in \"The Gymnasium\" in New York and in various cities throughout the United States.\n\nAndy Warhol's lights engineer Danny Williams pioneered many innovations that have since become standard practice in rock music light shows. From May 27–29 the EPI played The Fillmore in San Francisco, where Williams built a light show including stroboscopes, slides and film projections onstage. At Bill Graham's request he was soon to come back and build more. Film maker Jonas Mekas (who pioneered film projections during concerts at New York's Cinematheque), Andy Warhol and Danny Williams' influential ideas contributed much to the legendary Fillmore Auditorium's prestige and were also used at the Fillmore East and Fillmore West, both opening in 1968.\n"}
{"id": "1319189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1319189", "title": "Figure drawing", "text": "Figure drawing\n\nA figure drawing is a drawing of the human form in any of its various shapes and postures using any of the drawing media. The term can also refer to the act of producing such a drawing. The degree of representation may range from highly detailed, anatomically correct renderings to loose and expressive sketches. A \"life drawing\" is a drawing of the human figure from observation of a live model. A figure drawing may be a composed work of art or a figure study done in preparation for a more finished work such as a painting. Figure drawing is arguably the most difficult subject an artist commonly encounters, and entire courses are dedicated to the subject. The human figure is one of the most enduring themes in the visual arts, and the human figure can be the basis of portraiture, illustration, sculpture, medical illustration, and other fields.\n\nArtists take a variety of approaches to drawing the human figure. They may draw from live models or from photographs, from skeletal models, or from memory and imagination. Most instruction focuses on the use of models in \"life drawing\" courses. The use of photographic reference—although common since the development of photography—is often criticized or discouraged for its tendency to produce \"flat\" images that fail to capture the dynamic aspects of the subject. Drawing from imagination is often lauded for the expressiveness it encourages, and criticized for the inaccuracies introduced by the artist's lack of knowledge or limited memory in visualizing the human figure; the experience of the artist with other methods has a large influence on the effectiveness of this approach.\n\nIn developing the image, some artists focus on the shapes created by the interplay of light and dark values on the surfaces of the body. Others take an anatomical approach, beginning by approximating the internal skeleton of the figure, overlaying the internal organs and musculature, and covering those shapes with the skin, and finally (if applicable) clothing; study of human internal anatomy is usually involved in this technique. Another approach is to loosely construct the body out of geometric shapes, e.g., a sphere for the cranium, a cylinder for the torso, etc. then refine those shapes to more closely resemble the human form.\n\nFor those working without visual reference (or as a means of checking one's work), proportions commonly recommended in figure drawing are:\nNote that these proportions are most useful for a standing model. Poses which introduce foreshortening of various body parts will cause them to differ.\n\nThe French Salon in the 19th century recommended the use of Conté crayons, which are sticks of wax, oil and pigment, combined with specially formulated paper. Erasure was not permitted; instead, the artist was expected to describe the figure in light strokes before making darker, more visible marks.\n\nA popular modern technique is the use of a charcoal stick, prepared from special vines, and a rougher form of paper. The charcoal adheres loosely to the paper, allowing very easy erasure, but the final drawing can be preserved using a spray-on \"fixative\" to keep the charcoal from rubbing off. Harder compressed charcoal can produce a more deliberate and precise effect, and graduated tones can be produced by smudging with the fingers or with a cylindrical paper tool called a stump.\n\nGraphite pencil is also commonly used for figure drawing. For this purpose artists' pencils are sold in various formulations, ranging from 9B (very soft) to 1B (medium soft), and from 1H (medium hard) to 9H (very hard). Like charcoal, it can be erased and manipulated using a stump.\n\nInk is another popular medium. The artist will often start with graphite pencil to sketch or outline the drawing, then the final line work is done with a pen or brush, with permanent ink. The ink may be diluted with water to produce gradations, a technique called ink wash. The pencil marks may be erased after the ink is applied, or left in place with the dark inks overpowering them.\n\nSome artists draw directly in ink without the preparation of a pencil sketch, preferring the spontaneity of this approach despite the fact that it limits the ability to correct mistakes. Matisse is an artist known to have worked in this way.\n\nA favored method of Watteau and other 17th and 18th-century artists of the Baroque and Rococo era was to start with a colored ground of tone halfway between white and black, and to add shade in black and highlights in white, using pen and ink or \"crayon\".\n\nThe human figure has been the subject of drawings since prehistoric times. While the studio practices of the artists of antiquity are largely a matter of conjecture, that they often drew and modeled from nude models is suggested by the anatomical sophistication of their works. An anecdote related by Pliny describes how Zeuxis reviewed the young women of Agrigentum naked before selecting five whose features he would combine in order to paint an ideal image. The use of nude models in the medieval artist's workshop is implied in the writings of Cennino Cennini, and a manuscript of Villard de Honnecourt confirms that sketching from life was an established practice in the 13th century. The Carracci, who opened their \"Accademia degli Incamminati\" in Bologna in the 1580s, set the pattern for later art schools by making life drawing the central discipline. The course of training began with the copying of engravings, then proceeded to drawing from plaster casts, after which the students were trained in drawing from the live model.\n\nIn the late 18th century, students in Jacques-Louis David's studio followed a rigorous program of instruction. Mastery in drawing was considered a prerequisite to painting. For about six hours each day, students drew from a model who remained in the same pose for one week. Before the late 19th century, women were generally not admitted to figure drawing classes.\n\nAn academy figure is a drawing, painting or sculpture in a literal manner, of the nude human body using a live model, typically at half life size. \n\nIt is a common exercise required of students at art schools and academies, both in the past and present, hence the name.\n\nHistorical accounts reveal that nude models for aspiring female artists were largely unavailable. Women were barred from certain institutions because it was considered improper and possibly even dangerous for them to study from nude models. Though men were given access to both male and female nudes, women were confined to learning anatomy from casts and models. It was not until 1893 that female students were allowed access to life drawing at the Royal Academy in London, and even then the model was required to be partially draped.\n\nThe limited access to nude figures impeded the careers and development of female artists. The most prestigious forms of painting required in-depth knowledge of anatomy that was systematically denied to women, who were thereby relegated to less-regarded forms of painting such as genre, still life, landscape and portraiture. In Linda Nochlin’s essay \"Why have There Been No Great Women Artists\" she identifies the restricted access that women had to nude figure drawing as a historically significant barrier to women's artistic development.\n\nFigure drawing instruction is an element of most fine art and illustration programs. Academies of fine art in Italy have a scuola libera del nudo (\"free school of the nude\") which forms part of the degree program but is also open to outside students. In a typical figure drawing studio classroom, the students sit around a model either in a semicircle or a full circle. No two students have exactly the same view, thus their drawing will reflect the perspective of the artist's unique location relative to the model. The model often poses on a stand, to enable students to more easily find an unobstructed view. Depending on the type of pose, furniture and/or props may be used. These are typically included in the drawing, to the extent that they are visible to the artist. However, backgrounds are commonly ignored unless the objective is to learn about placement of figures in an environment. Individual models are most common, but multiple models may be used in more advanced classes. Many studios are equipped to allow a variety of lighting arrangements.\n\nWhen taught at the college level, figure drawing models are often (but not always) nude (aside from small jewelry or other inconspicuous items). While posing, the model is usually requested to remain perfectly still. Because of the difficulty of doing this for an extended period of time, periodic breaks for the model to rest and/or stretch are usually included in longer sessions and for more difficult poses. \n\nAt the beginning of a figure drawing session, the model is often requested to make a series of brief poses in rapid succession. These are called gesture poses, and are typically one to three minutes each. Gesture drawing is a warm-up exercise for many artists, although some artists sketch out the gesture as the first step in every figure drawing. These broad strokes are not just done by the flick of a wrist, but by using the whole arm to capture the motion of the model. It also helps to keep the artist focused on the model instead of the paper. When it comes to the human body, artists are painfully critical; the proportions of a still life do not have to be drawn perfectly to look authentic, but even the slightest error in human proportions will be easily detected.\n\nModern and contemporary artists may choose to exaggerate or distort proportions to emphasise the gesture or perceived mood of the models' pose. The outcomes can be regarded as a finished artwork, expressing both the subject, the observational, emotional and mark making response to the artists figure drawing experience.\n\nAnatomy is only the first level of concern in life classes. Figure-ground relationships and other aspects of composition are also considered. Balance of a composition becomes more crucial and therefore more understood through life drawing. The artist's kinesthetic response to the pose and how this is conveyed through a choice of art media is a more advanced concern.\nSince the purpose of figure drawing classes is to learn how to draw humans of all kinds, male and female models of all ages, shapes, and ethnicities are usually sought, rather than selecting only beautiful models or those with \"ideal\" figures. Some instructors specifically seek to avoid the sort of models preferred by fashion photographers, seeking more \"realistic\" examples and to avoid any implication of sexual objectification. Instructors may also favor models of particular body types based on the unique contours or surface textures they provide. The variety of models hired may be limited by the need for them to hold a pose for extended periods (eliminating restless children and frail older persons), and concerns of modesty and legality when models pose nude (restricting the use of minors).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27762122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27762122", "title": "Foster Child", "text": "Foster Child\n\nFoster Child is a 1987 documentary film by Gil Cardinal, exploring the filmmaker's search, at age thirty-five, for biological family. Cardinal often meets with frustration during his search, but eventually finds his natural family and discovers his Métis roots.\n\nIn \"Foster Child\", Cardinal documents his discovery of his past, including the reasons why his birth mother gave him up for adoption when he was one year old, and sees photographs of his deceased biological mother for the first time. He learns in the film that she had died in 1974, after a long history of alcohol and poverty.\n\nThis National Film Board of Canada production received over 10 awards, including four Golden Sheaf Awards, a Special Jury Prize at the Banff Television Festival and a Gemini Award for best direction for a documentary program. It was broadcast on CBC's \"Man Alive\" series.\n\n"}
{"id": "37870921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37870921", "title": "Head in Flames", "text": "Head in Flames\n\nHead in Flames is a postmodern novel by Lance Olsen, published by Chiasmus Press in 2009.\n\n\"Head in Flames\" is a collage novel built on a triadic structure. First Vincent van Gogh speaks briefly (sometimes only a sentence, sometimes a handful) in the first person in a Times font. Next Theo van Gogh does the same in the third person in Times bold. Last Mohammed Bouyeri speaks in the second person in a Courier font. This pattern repeats for the length of the text. The effect is more musical than narrative in a conventional sense.\n\nVan Gogh finds himself standing in a field in Auvers-sur-Oise in July 1890, debating whether or not to commit suicide. Theo finds himself riding to work on the day he was assassinated in Amsterdam in November 2004 by Mohammed, an extremist outraged by the filmmaker's collaboration with controversial politician Ayaan Hirsi Ali on a 10-minute experimental short critiquing Muslim subjugation and abuse of women.\n\nThe consequence of such a structure is a complex investigation into art's multiplicity of purpose, religion's increasingly dominant role as engine of politics and extremism in the contemporary world, the complexities involved in foreignness/assimilation, and the limits of cultural tolerance.\n\n\"Rain Taxi\" wrote that \"Head in Flames\" is \"distinguished both by its inventive, playful form and its evocative content,\" while \"Review of Contemporary Fiction\" called Olsen's novel \"an important book\" whose \"structure is a tour de force of formal innovation calling to mind Pinget's \"That Voice,\" Rulfo’s Pedro Páramo, and Cortázar’s \"Hopscotch\"…. Olsen’s real success lies not in his critique of the many forms of intolerance but rather in his affirmation of art as salvation.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7458883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7458883", "title": "List of D6 System books", "text": "List of D6 System books\n\nList of D6 System books is a listing of commercially released books from West End Games, its successors, and licensees for the D6 System role-playing game. This does not include various free downloads, fan-made works or forthcoming releases. Accessories such as card decks, screens and miniatures are also not listed. All books are print editions unless noted as otherwise.\n\nuses Legend System (aka D6 Prime) variant\n<br>uses OpenD6 -- the D6 System, released under OGL v1.0\n"}
{"id": "3177923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3177923", "title": "Literature by country", "text": "Literature by country\n\nThis is a list of literature pages categorized by country, language, or cultural group. Sometimes these literatures will be called national literatures because they help define a national identity or provide a common reference point for that country's culture. \n\n"}
{"id": "8068035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8068035", "title": "Lontar Foundation", "text": "Lontar Foundation\n\nThe Lontar Foundation, a not-for-profit organization based in Jakarta, Indonesia, was founded in 1987 by four Indonesian writers: Goenawan Mohamad, Sapardi Djoko Damono, Umar Kayam, and Subagio Sastrowardoyo and the American translator, John H. McGlynn.\n\nThe foundation is an independent organization, neither affiliated with nor intended to promote the interests of any particular political cause or group. The Foundation's core activity is the translation and publication of Indonesian literary works whose long-term goals are:\n\n\nOne of Lontar's most noted works is \"Illuminations : the writing traditions of Indonesia : featuring manuscripts from the National Library of Indonesia\". According to Associate Professor Jean Gelman Taylor from the University of New South Wales, \"Wetherhill and the Lontar Foundation have made a major contribution to scholarship by bringing together in one book these samples of Indonesia's intellectual and artistic heritage.\" \n\nLontar also published \"Indonesia in the Soeharto Years - Issues, Incidents and images\" written by John H. McGlynn and a large number of other writers. According to Dr. Katharine McGregor, Senior Lecturer in Southeast Asian History at the University of Melbourne, \"[a] strength of the work is the rich collection of photographs which document key protests, acts of violence, street life and Indonesian protest art.\" \n\nIn 2010, the Lontar Foundation published the \"Lontar Anthology of Indonesian Drama\", the first anthology of Indonesian drama translated into English, featuring a diverse group of translators such as Harry Aveling, an authority on Indonesian and Malay literature, among others. In May 2011, the Lontar Foundation launched a new series of Indonesian literature translated into English called the \"Modern Library of Indonesia\" featuring works from the 1920s until the present, including authors such as Putu Wijaya and Dewi Lestari. According to \"Tempo\", \"[Lontar] has inarguably become Indonesia's foremost literary foundation, and now has under its belt an impressive collection of translated literary works, from prose to poetry to drama.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284746", "title": "Lorraine Broderick", "text": "Lorraine Broderick\n\nLorraine Broderick (born 1948) is an American television soap opera writer. She got her start on \"All My Children\" as a protégée of the show's creator, Agnes Nixon. She went on to serve four different stints as its Head Writer, ultimately earning her four Daytime Emmy awards in that capacity. Broderick's work on the show has often been met with critical acclaim, citing her as its finest head writer outside of Nixon. She was the last head writer of \"All My Children's\" 40-year broadcast run on ABC, penning the show through its network finale on September 23, 2011.\n\nLorraine Broderick graduated from Andover High School in 1966 and Mt. Holyoke College in 1970. She joined \"All My Children\" as scriptwriter and breakdown writer in 1979, under the guidance of then-head writer Agnes Nixon. In 1982, Broderick would promote to an Associate Head Writer alongside fellow Nixon protégée Wisner Washam, who himself would be promoted to Head Writer the following year. In 1986, Broderick was appointed Co-Head Writer, sharing duties with Washam, who would exit the show himself in 1987 – leaving Broderick as the sole head writer. Broderick won her first Outstanding Writing Team Daytime Emmy award as head writer alongside Washam in 1988. However, a network mandate for creative changes had Broderick demoted back to Associate Head Writer, when Margaret DePriest was appointed head writer of \"All My Children\" in early 1989. But DePriest would not last long in the position, as Agnes Nixon would resume head writing duties by the end of that year – once again with Broderick and a returned Wisner Washam as her Associate Head Writers.\n\nAfter 12 years with All My Children's writing team, Broderick left in 1991 to become the co-head writer of \"Guiding Light\". While Broderick wrote for \"Guiding Light\", the show received much critical acclaim, and the early 1990s are widely considered to have been a golden era for the show. In the spring of 1995, when Megan McTavish was fired from her writing post at \"All My Children\", Broderick left her post as Associate Head Writer of \"Another World\" to once again become AMC's head writer. Broderick would win three consecutive Daytime Emmy awards for Outstanding Writing Team from her work as head writer of the show, bringing her total to four Emmy honors as a daytime head writer. She left \"All My Children\" for the second time in December 1997 when ABC Daytime decided to bring back McTavish.\n\nIn early 1998, Broderick was hired at CBS Daytime's \"As the World Turns\" where her most notable story was the resurrection of evil David Stenbeck and the switch of Lily Snyder's baby with another baby.\n\nIn July 1999, a complete behind-the-scenes overhaul at the show led to Broderick's exit. Shortly after, she was hired by \"Days of Our Lives\" Executive Producer Ken Corday to helm his show's writing team. However, she was there for less than a month before she left over disagreements with Co-Executive Producer Tom Langan (who would assume the writing duties himself). Reportedly, Langan wanted to rapidly age the next generation of teens and immediately place them in front-burner storylines, while Broderick wanted to phase them in gradually; Broderick's character-driven storytelling style was also reportedly not favored by Langan, who preferred more outlandish plotting.\n\nBroderick then joined \"Port Charles\" as an Associate Head Writer, before being appointed head writer of \"One Life to Live\" in January 2001. In 2003, she was demoted to associate head writer upon the return of famed \"One Life to Live\" writing team Michael Malone and Josh Griffith. At that time, ABC Daytime President Brian Frons offered Broderick a return to the head writing duties at \"All My Children\", but she declined. Broderick left \"One Life to Live\" altogether in 2004, returning to \"Guiding Light\" for a short stint as Associate Head Writer, during the show's transition to a new head writing team.\n\nShe would eventually accept a position as a screenwriting and playwriting professor at Drexel University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. This move reunited her with her former colleague, Felicia Minei Behr, former executive producer of \"All My Children\" and \"As the World Turns\", who served at Drexel as a professor of film & TV production.\n\nIn November 2009, Broderick returned to \"All My Children\" at the request of her one-time mentor, Agnes Nixon – following the dismissal of outgoing head writer Charles Pratt Jr. – as part of ABC's concerted effort to increased ratings. However, Broderick once again passed on being head writer in a permanent capacity. On January 13, 2010, ABC announced David Kreizman and Donna Swajeski as the new head writers. Broderick would continue as the interim head writer until her successors were in place on March 15, 2010. She then assumed her duties as Associate Head Writer.\n\nOn April 2, 2011, amid rumors of \"All My Children's\" possible cancellation, Soaps in Depth broke the news via Twitter that Broderick was once again named the show's head writer, replacing Kreizman and Swajeski. The show's cancellation was announced just two weeks later, with Broderick writing the show through its conclusion on September 23, 2011. She then returned to \"One Life to Live\" as a breakdown writer until that show's finale on January 13, 2012.\n\nIn April 2012, it was confirmed that Broderick would join the team of new \"Days of our Lives\" co-head writers Gary Tomlin and Christopher Whitesell as a breakdown writer.\n\n\"All My Children\"\n\n\"Another World\" (hired by Peggy Sloane)\n\n\"As the World Turns\" (hired by Mary Alice Dwyer-Dobbin)\n\n\"Days of Our Lives\" (hired by Ken Corday)\n\n\"Guiding Light\"\n\n\"One Life to Live\"\n\n\"Port Charles\"\n\nDaytime Emmy Awards\n\nWINS\n\nNOMINATIONS \n\nWriters Guild of America Award\n\nWINS\n\nNOMINATIONS \n"}
{"id": "35880640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35880640", "title": "Luminous at Darling Quarter", "text": "Luminous at Darling Quarter\n\nLuminous Interactive digital art platform was the brainchild of Lend Lease Group in collaboration with Ramus Illumination, and is billed, according to the Wall Street Journal, as 'the world's biggest interactive permanent light display'. It was officially opened in the Darling Quarter Precinct in Sydney Central Business District (CBD) on 18 May 2012. \n\nLuminous at Darling Quarter is a permanent platform solely for illuminated digital 'art' – both animated and static. The 'canvas' extends over four levels of two campus-style buildings, covering 557 windows in total, and presents a digital façade spanning a distance of 150 metres. The artistic and design direction was set by international light artist Bruce Ramus, with Ramus studio responsible for design management and production of the work. Fixtures were manufactured by Australian architectural lighting specialists Klik Systems using advanced LED systems.\n\nInteractive content is available from 6pm, Friday through Sunday, with touch screen kiosks in Tumbalong Park allowing the general public to paint their own digital designs and play over-scaled arcade games on the buildings in front of them. Web surfers can also play using their smart phone or contribute on their computer through a dedicated website. The online component of Luminous has similarities to Project Blinkenlights, a Berlin digital light installation, but expands the concept for the general public, allowing user-friendly interaction in an unprecedented way.\n\nThe Commonwealth Bank of Australia occupying the buildings is joint partner in the project along with the Sydney Harbour Foreshore Authority and Lend Lease. The consortium selected Bruce Ramus as the first artist, Artistic Director and Lighting Designer for Luminous. Canadian-born Ramus made his name lighting stage shows for U2 and David Bowie, and is design mentor for Sydney Opera House.\n\nAt Darling Quarter, each window forms a 'pixel' in the canvas, lit with Klik Systems's energy efficient LEDs, and seen from a distance can form a coherent animated picture. A sophisticated colour palette is available thanks to white LEDs added to the standard RGB (red, green, blue) colours. The system is also capable of integrating music: graphic synchronization allows for sound-based designs to be visualized on the canvas.\n\nContrary to many light installations, direct light is minimized to viewers, instead using the automated timber louvers to reflect light from Klik System's linear LEDs (running along the windowsills, angled upwards with a 10-degree spreader lens). The entire project offsets almost all its energy use, thanks to photo-voltaic panels on the roof of both Darling Quarter buildings. The project allegedly uses the same power as 5 household vacuum cleaners.\n\nLend Lease designed and constructed Darling Quarter for owner APPF Commercial and first proposed the idea of a permanent space for illuminated art. Darling Quarter precinct includes a community green, children’s playground, and a large number of world-food restaurants, cafes and bars, and reflects Lend Lease’s enthusiasm for iconic new spaces for future generations.\n\nThe digital façade is in action six evenings a week. On Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, displaying ‘soft’ images (such as clouds or waves). On Friday, Saturday and Sunday 'Luminous' displays interactive artworks that aim to invite debate and make art critics – and artists - of every citizen and visitor. \n\nSydney has a growing reputation for light shows, particularly due to the annual VIVID Sydney festival and the SPARC DESIGN lighting conferences at the Museum of Modern Art, which are regularly sponsored by Klik Systems and other long term supporters in the Australian lighting industry. Vivid Sydney was inaugurated in 2008, curated in 2010 by Laurie Anderson and Lou Reed and is billed as an international carbon-neutral festival of Light, Music and Ideas. The 2012 musical line-up includes Sufjan Stevens and Florence & The Machine.\n\n"}
{"id": "7122112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7122112", "title": "Marita Grabiak", "text": "Marita Grabiak\n\nMarita Jane Grabiak (born in Ambridge, Pennsylvania) is an American television director. She began her career as a production assistant on the film \"The Men's Club\" (1986) along with fellow Joss Whedon collaborator Tim Minear. She has directed episodes of several television series including \"Dawson's Creek\", \"Dollhouse\", \"ER\", \"Firefly\", \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", \"Angel\", \"Smallville\", \"Cold Case\", \"Gilmore Girls\", \"Everwood\", \"Battlestar Galactica\", \"Lost\", \"The Inside\", \"Alias\", \"\", \"Point Pleasant\", \"One Tree Hill\", and most recently, \"American Horror Story\".\n\nShe is a graduate of UCLA.\n\n"}
{"id": "4089779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4089779", "title": "Marvin Glass and Associates", "text": "Marvin Glass and Associates\n\nMarvin Glass and Associates (MGA) was a toy design and engineering firm based in Chicago. Marvin Glass (1914–1974) and his employees created some of the most successful toys and games of the twentieth century such as Mr. Machine, Rock 'Em Sock 'Em Robots, Lite Brite, Ants in the Pants, Mouse Trap, Operation, Simon, Body Language, and the Evel Knievel Stunt Cycle.\n\nMarvin Glass and Associates was founded in 1941. Its founder, Marvin Glass, was an entrepreneur and the creative force behind Marvin Glass and Associates. His salesmanship and uncanny ability to spark creativity in the designers he employed was unparalleled. In 1949, he licensed a \"novelty item\" to H. Fishlove & Company called Yakitty-Yak Talking Teeth. This item was invented by Eddy Goldfarb, who worked with Marvin Glass for a very short time after World War II.\n\nThe first big hit for Marvin Glass was Mr. Machine, a toy invented by a former watchmaker named Leo Kripak. A child could take Mr. Machine apart and put him back together. It was licensed to Ideal Toys and became such a hit that Lionel Weintraub, its president, made it his company mascot and featured it in many of Ideal's early TV ads. The company became so successful that Marvin Glass got his company logo printed on every package for the items it invented and licensed.\n\nThe organization's general counsel, James F. Coffee, and accountant Ernest Sonderling, were the architects of the successful business model whereby the designs and inventions were patented and licensed to various toy companies and manufacturers who would pay running royalties based on sales. Outside counsel, chairman and founder of the Intellectual Property Department at McDermott Will & Emery, Robert J. Schneider, was responsible for procuring the patents and protecting them from infringement. Mr. Schneider is currently Co-Chair of the Intellectual Property Department of Taft, Stettinius & Hollister LLP.\n\nJoseph M. Burck was a senior designer at Marvin Glass through the mid-1960s to early 1980s and invented or designed many of MGA's hottest items such as Inch Worm, Lite-Brite, Astrolite, Which Witch, Masterpiece, SSP Racers, Chu-Bops, and the Evel Knievel line of toys (Burck was Knievel's personal guest at the infamous Snake River Canyon jump.) Burck holds 10 US patents for items developed by MGA. Time Magazine named Lite-Brite one of the top 100 toys of all time. \n\nMarvin Glass died in 1974. Two years later, company CEO Anson Isaacson and two other company employees were shot and killed (and several others were wounded) at the company's offices in Chicago by another designer who then killed himself.\nMGA was contracted by Bally-Midway to design coin-operated video games during the 1980s. Some of the games produced by MGA during this era include \"Tapper\", \"Domino Man\" and \"Timber\".\nThe company continued in operation until 1988. Several partners from Marvin Glass and Associates subsequently started Big Monster Toys, which remains to this day and is still based in Chicago.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24946372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24946372", "title": "Miranda (TV series)", "text": "Miranda (TV series)\n\nMiranda was a British television sitcom written by and starring comedian Miranda Hart. It originally aired on BBC Two from 9 November 2009 and later on BBC One. \nDeveloped from Hart's semi-autobiographical BBC Radio 2 comedy \"Miranda Hart's Joke Shop\" (2008), the situation comedy revolves around socially inept Miranda, who frequently finds herself in awkward situations. The show features actors Sarah Hadland, Tom Ellis, Patricia Hodge, Sally Phillips, James Holmes and Bo Poraj. It was filmed in front of live audiences at the BBC Television Centre and The London Studios.\n\nReceiving positive comments from critics, \"Miranda\" won a Royal Television Society award and gained several BAFTA TV Award nominations. The series has since been regularly repeated on British television and is available in the United States through Hulu.\n\nThe episodes revolve around the difficulties Miranda (Miranda Hart) gets herself into. She is tall and, sometimes mistaken for a man, is addressed as 'Sir'. She has never fit in with her old boarding school friends, Tilly (Sally Phillips) and Fanny (Katy Wix), and finds social situations awkward, especially around men. She is a constant disappointment to her mother, Penny (Patricia Hodge), who is desperate for her to get a proper job and a husband. Although Miranda owns and lives above her own joke shop and boutique, she lacks any real capacity for business, so it is managed by her childhood friend Stevie Sutton (Sarah Hadland). The restaurant next door is initially run by Clive Evans (James Holmes), until series three, when the restaurant's chef, Gary Preston (Tom Ellis), purchases it from him. After many failed attempts at dating, Miranda and Gary, a friend from university whom Miranda fancies, decide to be just friends. Nevertheless, when Gary gets a girlfriend called Rose (Naomi Bentley), it prompts Miranda to start a new relationship with Michael Jackford (Bo Poraj), a local reporter whose work soon takes him to Africa. Upon his return he proposes to Miranda, as does Gary when he realises his love for her. Miranda accepts Gary's proposal rather than Michael's and Miranda and Gary get married in the final episode.\n\n\nAbigail Wilson, who worked for comedians Dawn French and Jennifer Saunders, suggested Hart pitch a show to the BBC after seeing her perform in 2003. Following a read-through of her script with Saunders and BBC executives, a television pilot, based on her semi-autobiographical writing, was filmed in early 2008, and the series was then developed into a sitcom for radio; \"Miranda Hart's Joke Shop\" aired on BBC Radio 2 in August and September 2008. A television series was commissioned in August 2008 and began filming in June 2009. Outdoor shots for series one were filmed in Hounslow, West London.\n\nIn an interview with the BBC's Writersroom, Hart said of the semi-autobiographical basis for the series:\n\nWell I developed this stand-up persona, and that's where it all started from. I realised I was getting laughs being a version of me, and that's what ended up in the sitcom. You do ultimately start from yourself but I'm pleased to say I did have to exaggerate for comedic effect. It wasn't entirely autobiographical. I'm not quite that mad.\n\nEach episode begins with a welcome to audience and a 'Previously in my life ...' segment, and Hart says a joke shop is the \"right place\" as the setting after being asked to consider an office to \"normalise\" the character. Her love of 1970s comedy programmes, such as \"Some Mothers Do 'Ave 'Em\", is the influence for \"Miranda\". The episodes end with a 'You have been watching ...' credits section where each cast member waves goodbye, as seen concluding Jimmy Perry and David Croft sitcoms such as \"Dad's Army\" and \"Hi-de-Hi!\". Quoted in \"The Times\", Hart says \"I'm saying this is what I'm doing and I'm not scared to do it. Some of my comedy peers do slightly fear being a mainstream figure, as if it's slightly uncool. Well, I thought I'm going to embrace it.\" Throughout each episode, Hart breaks the fourth wall and addresses the audience directly, a technique described as a \"simple creative decision [that] makes this infectious comedy sing\"; another critic stated \"this is hard to pull off, but it works well\".\n\nFollowing the conclusion of the first series, the BBC commissioned a second series for BBC Two in 2010. Of this, Hart said \"I am not only relieved but totally overwhelmed by the response and thrilled that people have enjoyed the series. I am very grateful for all the support and to the BBC for giving me the chance to do another series next year.\" Filming started during the first weeks of summer, and the new series began broadcast in November 2010. The second series comprises six episodes and saw the return of Miranda's mother and friends, Stevie, Gary and Tilly.\n\nFor the BBC broadcast, following the end of each episode viewers could press the red button, or go online, to watch Hart interview a guest who had inspired her during the writing of the show. Hart's friend Clare Balding was the first guest and they discussed how Balding influenced the character of Tilly. Frank Skinner was interviewed for the second episode. Following the end of episode five, which is a two-hander between Miranda and Penny, the red-button feature saw Hart interview her real-life mother. In late 2010, Hart announced that she would be filming a special edition of \"Miranda\" for Comic Relief. The sketch saw Miranda team up with dancers from \"Pineapple Dance Studios\".\n\n\"Miranda\" was recommissioned for a third series by BBC Comedy commissioner Cheryl Taylor in January 2011. Hart revealed that the third series might not be ready until 2012, but she may write a Christmas special. The following month it was announced that the third series of \"Miranda\" would be shown on BBC One. In April 2011, Hart announced on \"The Graham Norton Show\" that she had set herself to start writing the third series the following month. However, Hart revealed in November she had still not started writing the series. That same month it was announced Hart would not be doing a new Christmas special, though the 2010 Christmas episode would be repeated on BBC One.\n\nOn 17 December 2011, Andrew Mickel of Digital Spy reported Hart's involvement with BBC One drama \"Call the Midwife\" had delayed the third series of \"Miranda\" until Autumn 2012. Filming on the third series ended in early October 2012. A month later, a BBC News reporter revealed that Gary Barlow would appear in an episode of the third series as himself. They stated that he would \"get friendly in an unexpected way\" with Hart. The third series began broadcasting from 26 December 2012. The outdoor scenes for the second episode of the third series were filmed in Church Street, Kingston upon Thames.\n\nDue to the cliffhanger at the end of the third series, it was suspected that \"Miranda\" would return for a fourth series. However, in July 2014, Hart announced that there are no plans for a fourth series but 'a couple of specials' would be made. Hart later announced that the two Christmas specials would be the end to the sitcom. Hart said the end was \"going to be really emotional,\" but added that she didn't want her sitcom character \"to keep falling over and making a fool of herself\".\n\nThe first special, titled \"I Do, But To Who?\" aired on 25 December 2014 and the final episode titled \"The Final Curtain\" aired on 1 January 2015.\n\nAt the end of the final episode, Miranda said to the audience/viewers: \"I don't know when and if I'll see you again...\" In June 2015, Miranda Hart revealed that she hadn't ruled out a possible return for \"Miranda\".\n\nSarah Hadland has suggested that the sitcom is set to return. Speaking in an interview with The Telegraph, the actress – who plays Miranda's friend Stevie in the show – confirmed that the comedy will be back \"in some format\". However, she wouldn't be drawn on specifics, just saying: \"I can say there will be something\".\n\nIn late May 2017, Tom Ellis suggested the possibility of future episodes in an interview on BBC Radio 2, saying that \"we may be revisiting Miranda in the next couple of years\".\n\nThe main cast of \"Miranda\" (aside from Ellis and Holmes), reunited for the 2017 Royal Variety Performance, for which Hart was the host. They appeared several times throughout the evening in character.\n\nIn August 2018, it was reported that \"The Big Bang Theory\" star Jim Parsons was developing a US remake for Warner Bros. Television. Hart would be involved in developing the remake as a producer, but it was not revealed if she would star as well. \n\nThe first series was picked as one of the top 10 forthcoming TV shows for Autumn 2009 by \"The Sunday Times\". Ahead of the first episode airing, Dominic Maxwell in an article for \"The Times\" described it as an \"old-school\" sitcom and said that \"It's good fun, if you buy into it. And if you do, it's because of Hart.\" Also describing it as \"old-fashioned\", Vicky Frost for \"The Guardian\" said of the slapstick physical comedy that \"It's not clever – but it is funny. And that, I think is at the heart of Miranda's appeal.\" Mark Wright for \"The Stage\" said that Hodge gives a \"brilliant, brilliant performance\" and that \"what sets \"Miranda\" out as something special is Hart herself, and the rest just gels around her.\" The first series opened with 2.63 million viewers (10% audience share), rising to 3.14 million viewers (12% share) for the fourth episode.\n\nThe second series opened with 3.19 million viewers, rising to 4.01 million viewers for the third episode. Rachel Tarley from the \"Metro\" said \"Miranda\" is an acquired taste and that an episode can be a mixed bag. However, Tarley enjoyed the festive episode of series 2, saying \"Hart got away with a lot of the more irritating qualities of her work, with help from the fantastic Patricia Hodge and Sally Phillips. Tonight was also the first we saw of Miranda's father, played by Tom Conti, who filled most of the episode's falling-over quota, so that Miranda finally remained pretty vertical throughout the episode.\" She added that Hart is \"a great observer of everyday dilemmas\" and the best thing of all is she left the door open for a third series. Dominic Cavendish of \"The Daily Telegraph\" called \"Miranda\" \"the sitcom of the year\", while Chris Harvey of the same newspaper said \"The truth is, pretty much every time Miranda turns and looks at the camera, I burst out laughing. And even when her slapstick is so obvious it wouldn't confuse a small child [..] I still laugh. Even when I'm trying not to. Even when I really, really don't want to.\" Meanwhile, Catherine Gee said the show was a flop and listed six reasons why, which included unoriginal jokes, Hart's asides to the camera and the show retaining \"the worst aspects of the sitcoms of yesteryear.\"\n\nThe opening episode of the third series became one of the most watched shows in the UK over the Christmas period, attracting a total audience of over 11.5 million viewers. For The Telegraph, Michael Deacon compares the programme to a childish Christmas panto, finally adding, \"Perhaps I’m just getting old. I’m sure I’d have loved this show when I was six.\" Keith Watson, writing for Metro, says the series three finale is a \"great end to an up-to-scratch season, Miranda never fails to cheer up an evening, reminding many of us that we aren’t alone in the everyday awkward situations that we might find ourselves in – to some extent, anyway.\"\n\nGeorge Entwistle stated, \"Miranda's been a tremendous hit with audiences on BBC Two and I'm very glad she's let us persuade her to move to BBC One, where we believe we can build an even bigger following for her multi-award-winning show. BBC Two has done an exceptional job of supporting and nurturing Miranda over a number of years and I'm certain she'll be equally well looked after at BBC One.\"\n\nIn March 2010, Hart won the comedy performance prize at the 2009 Royal Television Society Awards for her role; the series was also nominated for the scripted comedy and comedy writing (for Hart, Cary and Hurst) awards. The series also gained two nominations at the 2010 British Academy Television Awards: scripted comedy and female comedy performance for Hart. Both Hart and Hodge received Best Actress nominations at the 2010 Monte Carlo Television Festival. In November 2010, \"Miranda\" was nominated for Best Comedy Programme at the Broadcast Awards. In January 2011, the show won Best New British TV Comedy at the British Comedy Awards, while Hart won Best TV Comedy Actress and the People's Choice Award For The King Or Queen Of Comedy 2010. \"Miranda\" was also nominated for Best Sitcom.\n\nHart won Best Comedy Performance and \"Miranda\" was named Best Scripted Comedy at the Royal Television Society Awards in March 2011. \"Miranda\" earned the award for Best Comedy Show at the 37th Broadcasting Press Guild Awards. Juliet May received a nomination for Best Director at the 2011 British Academy Television Craft Awards. Hart and the show received nominations from the British Academy Television Awards for Female Performance in a Comedy Role and the YouTube Audience Award respectively. In December 2011, Hart won Best TV Comedy Actress at the 22nd British Comedy Awards. She also earned nominations for Best Female TV Comic and the People's Choice Award For The King Or Queen Of Comedy. \"Miranda\" was nominated for Best Sitcom. 2013 saw Hart nominated for Best Female Performance in a Comedy Programme at the British Academy Television Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "13499361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13499361", "title": "Monastery of San Miguel de Escalada", "text": "Monastery of San Miguel de Escalada\n\nSan Miguel de Escalada is a monastery in the province of León, Spain, located 10 km from the Way of St. James pilgrimage route to Santiago de Compostela. The building is an example of Mozarabic art and architecture or Repoblación art and architecture.\n\nAn inscription that has disappeared but was published by Father Risco in 1786 gave information about the church's consecration in 951 by Bishop Genadio of Astorga, around the time of the founding of the Kingdom of León. It was constructed on a site dedicated to Saint Michael, probably a Visigothic church:\n\nIn 1050, due to an increase in the number of monks, the foundation was renewed by the Abbot Sabarico. In 1155 King Alfonso VII of León gave the monastery to the congregation of \"St Rufo of Avignon\".\n\nAfter the disentailment of ecclesiastical properties and lands in 1836 (\"Desamortización de Mendizábal\"), the monastery was abandoned and the monastic offices disappeared. The only buildings extant are the church, the tower, and the San Fructuoso chapel. The tower and the chapel are of Romanesque style. Later in the nineteenth century the buildings were declared a national monument.\n\nThe monastery church's nave has three aisles separated by columns and large horseshoe arches, with their apses and a crossing, which is not covered by a cimborio or central tower. The choir is separated from the principal nave by three horseshoe arches sometimes called an iconostasis).\n\nDespite the floor plan, the building appears from the exterior as a rectangular block. All arches take down in marble shafts and Corinthian steeples proceeding from other Visigothic or Roman constructions (as it may be appreciated in a cyma carved as from a gravestone, perhaps from the nearby Roman city of \"Lancia\").\n\nThe building has wood panels, which are decorated with paintings from the 15th century.\n\nArchitectural highlights include a meridional porch fixed by twelve horseshoe arche), which were built in two different phases: the seven occidental arches, with columns and steeples are in the moorish style, while the Mozarabic work from the 10th century is preserved in the alfiz decorations around the arches.\n\n"}
{"id": "5208092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5208092", "title": "Museumsufer", "text": "Museumsufer\n\nMuseumsufer is the name of a landscape of museums in Frankfurt, Hesse, Germany, lined up on both banks of the river Main or in close vicinity. The centre is the historic art museum Städel. The other museums were added, partly by transforming historic villas, partly by building new museums, in the 1980s by cultural politician Hilmar Hoffmann.\n\nThe idea for a group of different museums in Frankfurt was proposed in 1977 by Hilmar Hoffmann, who was then as \"Kulturdezernent\" responsible for culture in the city. Before, architect had proposed a concept to the forum for development (\"Frankfurter Forum für Stadtentwicklung\"). Between 1980 and 1990, existing museums were expanded and many new ones built, often including historic villas. Architects included internationally known Richard Meier, Oswald Mathias Ungers, Josef Paul Kleihues, Günter Behnisch and Hans Hollein.\n\nBeginning in 2008, Frankfurt has restored and expanded some of it museums.g The Städel was expanded by an annex, and the Fil Museum was renovated.\n\n\n\nFour museums are located in the Old Town but not right on the river bank:\n\nThe exhibition hall Portikus was opened on an island at the Alte Brücke in 2006. \n\nThe street on the south is called Schaumainkai and is often partially closed to traffic for Frankfurt's largest flea market each Saturday. Two festivals focus on the Museumsufer, the \"Nacht der Museen\" when several museums open at night, and the \"Museumsuferfest\" in August.\n"}
{"id": "13542819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13542819", "title": "Music session", "text": "Music session\n\nA music session is a social gathering of musicians and singers who perform music in a relatively informal context. Much of the music performed at such events is traditional music for the area, popular songs and other well-known tunes. In sessions, the participants typically improvise the accompaniment, song arrangements and musical ornaments to the melodies of songs or tunes. The venue may be a public bar, tavern, village hall or a private home.\n\nThe events usually occur at regular intervals and a weekday evening may be chosen if professional musicians are expected to take part, so that it does not interfere with paid weekend gigs. More amateur players may organize a session on a weekend. At a session, musicians usually play or sing for pleasure and to socialize. Frequently the musicians and singers are unpaid. However, one or two musicians (usually experienced players or professionals) are paid to 'lead' a session and to encourage others to join in. In a jazz or blues jam, the venue may pay a small \"house band\" (typically a rhythm section) to provide accompaniment.\n\nDepending on the genre and region, music sessions may be called a \"traditional music session\", \"session\", or in jazz and blues, a \"jam session\" or \"jam\".\n\nThe music session forms an important part of Scottish and Irish culture (see Irish traditional music session). Often such events form an integral part of music festivals. The festival will often consist of a series of concerts by local groups, well-known or famous bands or entertainers. It is quite common for the local amateurs and touring professional musicians to meet after the concerts and have a \"session\" late in the evening. These sessions may continue into early hours of the morning. In jazz and blues, \"jam sessions\" are an important part of the musical culture.\n\nUsually traditional sessions are based around acoustic instruments. In Scotland as in Ireland, the most popular instruments include acoustic guitar, fiddle, accordion, mandolin, pipes, whistle, and sometimes double bass. Because an acoustic guitar is relatively quiet, guitarists often experience difficulty being heard over louder instruments such as accordions and whistles.\n\nA small amplifier may be used to bring the guitar up to an audible level. However, there are a number of traditionalists who resent the use of guitar amplifiers at an otherwise acoustic session.\n\nDepending on the session, some beginning performers may use chord charts or sheet music or no music notation at all, which is typically the case at a session with experienced participants and/or professionals. In sessions where no music notation is used, the participants or leader \"call\" well-known tunes that the other performers know \"by ear\", either by stating the title aloud, or more simply by starting into the melody.\n\nIn jazz and blues (and related genres and subgenres), a session is typically called a jam session or a jam. Jam sessions often take place after musicians and singers have finished their paid gigs for the evenings. Jams often take place at nightclubs or bars. Jams may include both professional instrumentalists and singers and talented amateurs. Some venues have a \"house band\" or backing band, a paid rhythm section that includes one or two chordal instrumentalists (e.g., piano, Hammond organ, electric guitar, etc.), a bassist (e.g., electric bass or double bass) and a drummer.\n\nIn jazz, jam participants include \"horn players\" (\"horn\" in jazz parlance means any of the wind or brass instruments used in the genre, including saxophone, trumpet, trombone, etc), rhythm section instrumentalists (who typically \"sit in for\" or replace one of the house band members) and singers. At more amateur jazz jam sessions, the performers may use lead sheets that contain the chord progression and melody of the song in music notation or fake books. At a more professional jam, performers may simply \"call out\" tunes, with the performers being expected to know the melody and chord changes.\n\nAt a blues jam, the session performers may include electric guitarists, harmonica (\"blues harp\") players and singers. At blues jams, the house band typically plays twelve bar blues and other blues song forms that are well-known for the session participants to solo over. At blues jams, the guitar solo, typically played on electric guitar through an overdriven guitar amp, is an important type of solo.\n\nPaid session leaders help to ensure that there will be music performances throughout the evening for members of the public who might wish to listen without participating. The leader also acts as a host and master of ceremonies for the event, introducing performers and, thanking them after their songs and calling for applause. The session leader selects players and singers who are skilled enough to deserve a solo performance, and politely asks inexperienced performers to wait for later in the session.\n\nIf a session performer is exceptionally skilled, the leader may encourage her to perform a number of songs or tunes. On the other hand, if a player or singer does not perform that well, due to a lack of experience or technique, the leader will thank the individual for his or her performance and then diplomatically ask for the audience's applause, while at the same time inviting a more seasoned performer on stage to take the first performer's place. Less skilled performers may be asked to participate as a member of an ensemble, playing an accompaniment role in the background.\n\nSome session leaders use a sign-up sheet where participants can indicate their interest in performing. The session leader is often an accomplished singer and/or instrumentalist, and she typically performs throughout the evening, either in solo roles or \"comping\" for (accompanying) other performers. The session leader's ability to perform helps to fill in any periods during the evening where no participants have asked to come up.\n\nThe performers and singers who participate in an unpaid session typically do so for the enjoyment of performing and for the applause they receive from the audience. In jazz, jam sessions are often a good way for players and singers to meet other performers; in a sense, it can serve as a form of business networking for musicians. At a jam session, jazz musicians can hear other performers on stage, meet with them, and consider certain individuals for collaboration on future paid gigs or recording sessions. A jazz singer, for example, might use attendance and participation in jam sessions as a way to find potential members who she could hire as a rhythm section for her shows. A bandleader might use participation in jam sessions as a way to scout out new talent for her big band. In jazz, jam sessions are also an opportunity for informal learning, as players can show other performers new playing techniques or improvisation approaches.\n\nThe hospitality of the landlord or venue owner can also be important to the music session scene. Sometimes he or she might offer a round of drinks or tea, coffee and food to the performers, to thank them for their contribution to the entertainment of the audience.\n\nAs part of jazz festivals, the organizers sometimes arrange what are termed \"jam sessions\", which are concerts in which only professional musicians perform. While these shows may share the informal feel of regular jam sessions, they are different from the truly informal jam sessions that are held, at which both professionals and talented amateurs share the stage, and at which none of the solo performers (except the host/MC) are being paid.\n\n"}
{"id": "41813343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41813343", "title": "N.paradoxa", "text": "N.paradoxa\n\nn.paradoxa: international feminist art journal is an academic journal covering feminist art criticism and the work of women artists since the 1970s. It is published by KT press and the editor-in-chief is Katy Deepwell (London).\n\nThe current print journal (printed as volumes, ) was established by Deepwell in 1998. Prior to this, \"n.paradoxa\" existed as an online journal (issues 1-21, ) which was established in 1996 and this parallel edition online ran until 2010 with entirely different content to the print journal. Each volume of \"n.paradoxa\" focuses on a particular theme and typically includes articles devoted to art theory and criticism from a feminist perspective, as well as interviews with artists. The website contains extensive online resources on feminism in the visual arts internationally, including reviews of exhibits, books, and websites. The journal is published biannually in January and July. \"n.paradoxa\" participated in the Documenta 12 magazines project as part of the 2007 documenta exhibition in Kassel. After 2011, volumes were simultaneously published in print and electronic format online, both with .\n"}
{"id": "2127768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127768", "title": "Nira Park", "text": "Nira Park\n\nNira Park is a British television and film producer.\n\nPark founded UK film and television production company Big Talk in 1995. She is best known for her collaborations with Edgar Wright, Simon Pegg and Nick Frost, having produced both series of the award-winning TV comedy \"Spaced\" and the \"Three Flavours Cornetto\" trilogy.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Spaced\", Park produced cult-comedy \"Shaun of the Dead,\" for which she received a Carl Foreman Award nomination at BAFTA. The film was the first instalment of Wright’s iconic \"Three Flavours Cornetto\" trilogy, starring Simon Pegg and Nick Frost. \"Shaun\" was followed by 2007 hit \"Hot Fuzz\" and 2013's \"The World’s End\".\n\nNira produced Wright’s \"Scott Pilgrim vs. The World\" in 2010; in 2011 Joe Cornish’s SXSW audience-award winning debut feature \"Attack the Block\", and that same year Greg Mottola’s \"Paul\", written by Pegg and Frost. In 2012, she produced Ben Wheatley’s Cannes-premiered black-comedy \"Sightseers\"; in 2013 Jeremy Lovering’s critically acclaimed psychological horror \"In Fear\", which premiered at Sundance; and in 2014 \"Cuban Fury\", starring Nick Frost, Chris O’Dowd and Rashida Jones. \n\nMost recently Nira produced rom-com \"Man Up\", starring Simon Pegg, Lake Bell and directed by Ben Palmer. The movie premiered at Tribeca Film Festival and won ‘Best Comedy’ at the 2016 National Film Awards. She also produced Sacha Baron Cohen’s action-comedy \"Grimsby\", which was released February 2016. She most recently produced Edgar Wright's film \"Baby Driver\", which was released in summer 2017.\n\nFor television, she has produced three series of the double BAFTA award-winning sitcom \"Black Books\", \"Free Agents\", and was an executive producer on \"Friday Night Dinner\" and the BAFTA award-winning \"Him and Her\". \n\n"}
{"id": "56277738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56277738", "title": "Pablo Neruda Order of Artistic and Cultural Merit", "text": "Pablo Neruda Order of Artistic and Cultural Merit\n\nThe Pablo Neruda Order of Artistic and Cultural Merit () was created in 2004 by the National Council of Culture and the Arts of the government of Chile, as part of the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Chilean poet Pablo Neruda (12 July 1904).\n\nIt is granted by the Minister of Culture to those national and international figures who have stood out for contributions made in the field of art and culture.\n\nThe Pablo Neruda Order of Merit was delivered for the first time on 5 July 2004 to the mayor of Barcelona, Joan Clos, and about 15 Ibero-American artists – among them, Miguel Bosé, Joan Manuel Serrat, Víctor Manuel, Ana Belén, Jorge Drexler, Julieta Venegas, and – who participated in the musical tribute that took place at the Palau Sant Jordi, Barcelona.\n\nMany national and international personalities have received this decoration since it was created.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22166409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22166409", "title": "Payasos Sin Fronteras", "text": "Payasos Sin Fronteras\n\nPayasos Sin Fronteras, or Clowns without Borders, is a Spanish humanitarian organization of clowns that performs for free for children affected by war. It was founded in Barcelona in July 1993 and has performed in many war-torn regions such as former Yugoslavia, Palestine or eastern DR Congo.\n\nIn 1992, a professional clown from Barcelona received a request from a group of students at the Projecte School in Barcelona to put on shows in refugee camps in the former Yugoslavia. The students offered to accompany the clowns and pay for the costs.\nOn 26 February 1993, the artists performed in the Veli Joze refugee camp on the Istrian peninsula. The reaction from the children validates the impact and the clowns decided to put on a second show two months later with a group of jugglers. This second trip cemented the idea of setting up an organization. \nIn 1992, different artist groups from Spain (clowns, dancers, magicians, etc.) launched 8 trips to the former Yugoslavia and invited other international artists to participate. In 1994 there were 19 trips and in the following years, similar organizations were founded in Belgium, Canada, Germany, Ireland, South Africa, Sweden, USA, Finland and Australia. In 2012, these eleven organizations created an International Federation to improve communication and coordination among entities.\n\n"}
{"id": "38101506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38101506", "title": "Plan of a Novel, according to Hints from Various Quarters", "text": "Plan of a Novel, according to Hints from Various Quarters\n\nPlan of a Novel, according to Hints from Various Quarters is a short satirical work by Jane Austen, probably written in May 1816. It was published in complete form for the first time by R. W. Chapman in 1926, extracts having appeared in 1871. It has been said that \"in the \"Plan\" and the correspondence from which it arose, we have the most important account of what Jane Austen understood to be her aims and capacities as a novelist\".\n\nIn 1815 Austen met the Rev. James Stanier Clarke in London. He had ideas for her fiction, including a novel to be based on a clergyman with a foothold in urban life, as well as the provincial rural settings she had used so far for clerics in her novels. At the time (October 1815) she was staying with her brother in London negotiating the publication of \"Emma\", which was then dedicated to the Prince Regent through the good offices of Clarke, who was the Prince's librarian. Among Clarke's suggestions was a historical novel on the House of Coburg: Austen side-stepped with a disclaimer about her talents. Clarke recommended that Austen should dedicate \"Emma \"to the Prince Regent. She did this, although she disapproved of his attitude towards his wife.\n\nThe intention of the work was to set down the essential parts of the \"ideal novel\". Austen was following, and guying, the recommendations of Clarke. The work was also influenced by some of Austen's personal circle with views on the novel of courtship, and names are recorded in the margins of the manuscript; they included William Gifford, her publisher, and her niece Fanny Knight.\n\nThe \"Plan\" became a sort of family joke among the Austens. Some of its aspects parody contemporary works by authors such as Sophie Cottin, Fanny Burney, Anna Maria Porter, and Mary Brunton. The satire of the \"Plan\" was analysed by Austen's nephew James Edward Austen-Leigh, in his biography \"A Memoir of Jane Austen\" (1869, expanded edition 1871).\n"}
{"id": "24753139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24753139", "title": "Quito School", "text": "Quito School\n\nThe Quito School (Escuela Quiteña) is a Latin American artistic tradition that constitutes essentially the whole of the professional artistic output developed in the territory of the Royal Audience of Quito — from Pasto and Popayán in the north to Piura and Cajamarca in the south — during the Spanish colonial period (1542-1824). It is especially associated with the 17th and 18th centuries and was almost exclusively focused on the religious art of the Catholic Church in the country. Characterized by a mastery of the realistic and by the degree to which indigenous beliefs and artistic traditions are evident, these productions were among of the most important activities in the economy of the Royal Audience of Quito. Such was the prestige of the movement even in Europe that it was said that King Carlos III of Spain (1716–1788), referring to one of its sculptors in particular, opined: \"I am not concerned that Italy has Michelangelo; in my colonies of America I have the master Caspicara\".\n\nThe Quito School originated in the school of Artes y Oficios, founded in 1552 by the Franciscan priest Jodoco Ricke, who together with Friar Pedro Bedon transformed the San Andrés seminary, where the first indigenous artists were trained. As a cultural expression, it is the result of a long process of acculturation between indigenous peoples and Europeans, and it is one of the richest expressions of miscegenation (\"mestizaje\") and of syncretism, in which the participation of the vanquished Indian is seemingly of minor importance as compared to the dominant European contribution.\n\nAs a product of cultural syncretism and miscegenation, the works of the Quito School are characterized by the combination and adaptation of European and Indigenous features. In its development, it reflected the styles prevailing in each period of Spain and thus contains renaissance and mannerist elements. During its height, it was eminently baroque, concluding with a short rococo period leading to an incipient neoclassicism until the transition to the republican period. The Quito School also incorporated Flemish, Italian, and Moorish influences.\n\nOne of the common characteristics of the school is the technique of \"encarnado\" (\"flesh-colored\") — the simulation of the color of the flesh of the [European] human body — that makes the skin of sculptures appear more natural. Once the piece was perfectly cut and sanded, an artisan covered the wood with several layers of gesso with glue. Each layer was highly polished to achieve a perfectly smooth finish. Next, color was applied in various transparent layers, allowing an optical mix of overlapping colors. This began with the colors of shadows (blue, green, ocher), then light colors were applied (white, pink, yellow). and finally highlight colors were added (orange and red to cheeks, knees, and elbows of children; and dark blue, green, and violet for wounds and bruises of Christ or for stubble on a beardless figure).\n\nOther typical characteristics include:\n\nThe features indicating its indigenous roots include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8978155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8978155", "title": "Richard Shusterman", "text": "Richard Shusterman\n\nRichard Shusterman is an American pragmatist philosopher. Known for his contributions to philosophical aesthetics and the emerging field of somaesthetics, currently he is the Dorothy F. Schmidt Eminent Scholar in the Humanities and Professor of Philosophy at Florida Atlantic University.\n\nRichard Shusterman was born on December 3, 1949, to a Jewish family living in Philadelphia, USA. At the age 16 he left his home and went to Israel, where he continued his education, studying English and philosophy at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. There he received a B.A. degree in English and Philosophy, and later an M.A. degree in philosophy (both degrees awarded magna cum laude). \nAfter teaching at different Israeli academic institutions, and receiving tenure at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev with an episode as a visiting fellow at St. John's College, Oxford University during academic year 1984/85, Shusterman became an Associate Professor of Philosophy at Temple University, Philadelphia, USA in 1986. He was granted tenure in 1988 and promoted to full professor in 1991. He then served as chair of the philosophy department between the years of 1998–2004.\nIn 2004 Richard Shusterman left Temple University to become the Dorothy F. Schmidt Eminent Scholar in the Humanities at Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, where he also holds the rank of Professor in the departments of Philosophy and English.\nRichard Shusterman has been married twice. From his first marriage in Israel, he has two sons and a daughter. He has one daughter from his second marriage, which ended in 2013.\n\nDuring his years at the University of Jerusalem, Shusterman focused on analytic philosophy. The interest carried over with his doctoral dissertation at Oxford University; \"The Object of Literary Criticism\" which he wrote at St. John's College under the supervision of J. O. Urmson and defended in 1979. It was published under the original title in 1984.\n1988 saw the publication of Shusterman's second book, T. S. Eliot and the Philosophy of Criticism, and with it came a turn in his philosophical focus as well. Influenced by the work that produced the book and personal experiences, Shusterman's attention moved from analytic philosophy to pragmatism. He also began work to develop his own theory of pragmatist aesthetics; based on John Dewey’s aesthetics but augmented by the argumentative methods and tools of analytic philosophy.\nHis third book published, Pragmatist Aesthetics in 1992, brought a big breakthrough in Shusterman’s academic career. The book’s original approach to the problems of definition of art, organic wholes, interpretation, popular art, and the ethics of taste brought him international fame as the book was translated into 14 languages and several editions were published. Shusterman’s position was further strengthened by three subsequent publications: Practicing Philosophy in 1997, Performing Live in 2000, and Surface and Depth in 2002; in which he continued the pragmatist tradition, raising significant interest, provoking numerous critiques and stimulating debates not only among professional philosophers, but in the areas of literary and cultural studies as well.\nIn Practicing Philosophy, Shusterman introduces his concept of ‘somaesthetics’, which he elaborates in greater detail in Performing Live. Somaesthetics is the focus of Shusterman's two subsequent books, Body Consciousness: A Philosophy of Mindfulness and Somaesthetics (2008) and Thinking through the Body: Essays in Somaesthetics (2012). The first of these books, translated into seven languages, helped establish somaesthetics as an international, interdisciplinary project involving scholars from fields beyond philosophy, while the second book consolidated this movement toward the interdisciplinary approach by applying somaesthetics to various arts, and cultural practices.\n\nIn 2007, as a part of his project of developing somaesthetics, Shusterman established the Center for Body, Mind, and Culture at FAU. He is a member of many editorial boards and has been allocated important grants and fellowships for his research; from the National Endowment of the Humanities, the Fulbright Commission, and the Humboldt Foundation.\n\nOne of the important factors influencing Shusterman's philosophy has been his international career. For instance, his work in France with Pierre Bourdieu, the Sorbonne, and the College International de Philosophie has allowed his pragmatism to engage and deploy the contemporary French philosophical tradition. His Fulbright Professorship in Berlin enabled his pragmatism to intersect more closely with contemporary German philosophy. Similarly, his years as a visiting research professor in Hiroshima, Japan and in Beijing and Shandong in China facilitated his study of Asian philosophy and Zen practice.\n\nShusterman philosophy stretches beyond the confines of professional academic life. In 1995, he was a delegate member of the UNESCO project Philosophy and Democracy in the World, and for several years he directed the UNESCO project MUSIC: Music, Urbanism, Social Integration and Culture. In 2012 he prepared a project commissioned by UNESCO that aims to use the internet to stimulate international youth to immerse in dialogue about peace and violence, through the medium of art. Recalling the classical Greek concept of education, the project is named PAIDEIA, an acronym that stands for Peace through Art and Internet Dialog for Education and Intercultural Association. On a more local level, during the years 1998-2004, he organized and hosted a public discussion forum, titled “Dialogues on the Square”, at Philadelphia's main Barnes & Noble bookstore, at Rittenhouse Square. In 2002, he received his professional certification as a Feldenkrais practitioner, and he has worked since as a somatic educator and therapist.\n\nContemporary pragmatism can be divided into two sub-fields; the neo-classical and the neo-analytical. The latter has been well described by Richard Rorty, as an amalgam of the elements of classical pragmatism and analytic philosophy, which is sometimes supplemented, especially in Rorty's case, by the ideas of continental thinkers like Martin Heidegger. The former, represented, among others, by Susan Haack, is more conservative in its development of the classical tradition and adopts a critical stance toward Rorty's interpretation thereof.\n\nAssuming this description is correct, Shusterman's pragmatism lies somewhere in the middle between the above-mentioned positions. Although his analytic background and acceptance of some of Rorty's ideas (he even subsumes his and Rorty's thought under a common category of “reconstructivist genealogical-poetic pragmatism”) seemingly make him a neo-analytic pragmatist, the stress he puts on the importance of the notion of experience, which Rorty would like to substitute with the notion of language, chimes perfectly with the neo-classical stance.\n\nBesides classical pragmatism and analytic philosophy, Shusterman's interests touch varied traditions and disciplines: continental sociology (Pierre Bourdieu) and philosophy (Michel Foucault, Michel de Montaigne, Friedrich Nietzsche), Western body therapy (Moshe Feldenkrais, F. Matthias Alexander) as well as East-Asian thought (Confucius).\n\nThis diversity of interests and inspirations finds its reflection in the scope of Shusterman's philosophical work which embraces not only aesthetics, but also metaphysics, ethics, philosophy of language, political theory as well as metaphilosophy; in which he advocates the idea of philosophy as the art of living.\n\nExperience serves as a basic category in Shusterman's pragmatism, both in terms of methodology (the pragmatist should always work from experience ) as well as ontology or epistemology (experience “is a transactional nexus of interacting energies connecting the embodied self and its environing world”) but contrary to John Dewey, Shusterman does not engage in constructing a general metaphysical conception. He has, however, made significant comments on Dewey's insights and defends Dewey's idea of immediate, nondiscursive experience against the criticism put forward by Richard Rorty.\n\nWhile Rorty shares Dewey's commitment to debunk epistemological foundationalism, he (Rorty) believes that the notion of language is better suited to achieve this goal, than the notion of immediate, non-discursive experience preferred by Dewey. Rorty further says that Dewey's theory itself collapses into a version of foundationalism, where immediate, non-discursive experience serves as evidence for particular knowledge claims.\n\nTo this, Shusterman replies that:\n(b) Dewey never really intended his theory of experience to be a kind of epistemological foundationalism, but rather wanted to celebrate the richness and value of immediate experience, including “the immediate dimension of somatic experience” and to emphasize the positive role such experience can play in improving the quality of human life. (The inspiration of body theorist-therapist F. M. Alexander is important here). Although he argues that Dewey's theory was ultimately spoiled by a kind of foundationalism (not the one Rorty accuses Dewey of but rather one asserting that the specific quality of immediate experience is the glue that makes coherent thought possible),\nShusterman believes that the philosophical value of experience can and should be reaffirmed in an anti-foundationalist form.\n\nIn Shusterman's and, also, Dewey's opinion, the eastern meditation practices repair perception for understanding our dependence on the society's moral order. Shusterman underlines that even if, as Rorty claims, Wilfrid Sellars’s critique of the myth of the given proves that immediate, non-discursive somatic experience cannot be integrated into epistemology, it does not preclude that this experience may be usefully deployed in philosophy as such, because to think otherwise would be to wrongly conflate all philosophy with one of its sub-disciplines, i.e. theory of cognition. And the fact that we can hardly imagine any form of application of the immediate somatic experience in the realm of philosophy is not a proof that this is impossible, but rather indicates that our conception of philosophy is dominated by an idealistic paradigm, naturally hostile to the body as such. The will to change this situation has been one of the reasons why Shusterman developed a philosophical sub-discipline devoted to the body and its experience: Somaesthetics.\n\nShusterman also addresses the philosophical problems of defining art; by presenting both, meta-theoretical insights as well as definitions of his own.\n\nOn the meta-theoretical level he criticizes essentialist, classificatory definitions of art (preferred by the traditional analytic philosophy), which he calls “wrapper definitions” since they aim “at the perfect coverage” of the logical extension of the notion of art. Shusterman finds these definitions problematic, given art's contested value and nature as well as its unpredictable development in the future. He further argues that there is a goal for art definitions, which is more important than the conceptual coverage that is directional/transformational in “illuminating the special point and value of art or [...] improving art’s appreciation”.\n\nHe says that these ideas may converge, but since they may as well not, it is unacceptable to exclude any definitions only on the basis that they do not satisfy the standards of taxonomical validity, like e.g. evaluative definitions which nevertheless can be useful in their own way. Besides discussing the issue of wrapper definitions in general, Shusterman has also criticized particular definitions of that kind invented by George Dickie and Arthur Danto.\n\nShusterman advocates a definition of art; as experience that is influenced by Dewey's definition with significant changes. While he accepts the majority of the elements central to the Dewey's conception of this experience (e.g., that it cannot be reduced to the private mental world of the subject being rather an interaction between the subject and the object), there are some he finds questionable (e.g. Dewey's insistence on the unity and coherence of aesthetic experience which Shusterman would like to supplement with aesthetics of rupture and fragmentation).\nHe says that Dewey was wrong to treat his definition of art as experience as a traditionalist wrapper definition, thus making it vulnerable to the valid charges, that it is both too narrow and too wide (there are some artworks which do not engender aesthetic experiences and, conversely, in some cases aesthetic experience accompanies phenomena which simply cannot be redefined as art, like natural beauty, e.g.). He further says that what Dewey should have done instead was to assign to it the directional and transformational role mentioned above. Conceived this way, Shusterman argues, the definition of art as experience has an undeniable value because even though it cannot embrace the whole extension of the concept of art it “underlines a crucial background condition, direction, and valued goal of art” (i.e. aesthetic experience) and also helps to widen “the realm of art by challenging the rigid division between art and action that is supported by definitions that define art as mimesis, poiesis, or the narrow practice defined by the institutional art world\".\n\nShusterman also advocates a definition of art as dramatization, which supplements the definition he has inherited from Dewey not only by illuminating art's nature from a slightly different angle, but also by serving a different, yet equally important purpose – the reconciliation of two prominent and, at the same time, conflicted aesthetic accounts of art: historicism and naturalism. Since the notion of dramatization involves, and harmonizes two important moments: of putting something into a formalized frame (e.g. “the frame of a theatrical performance”) and of intense experiential content that is framed, it presents itself as a potential synthesizing formula for historicism and naturalism which, Shusterman argues, can be reduced to emphasizing the formal institutional frame of art (historicism) or experiential intensity that characterizes art as such (naturalism).\n\nBoth of Shusterman's definitions have become the subject of many commentaries and criticisms.\n\nOf the many debates that galvanize contemporary humanities, one of the most important one is devoted to the problem of interpretation. Shusterman has participated in it by co-editing a fundamental anthology “The Interpretive Turn”, as well as making his opinions known.\nShusterman's account of interpretation is constructed in opposition to both analytic aesthetics and deconstruction, which are often said to constitute the two opposite poles of contemporary interpretive theory. As he claims, both of them share “a picture of understanding as the recapturing or reproducing of a particular [...] [“separate and autonomous”] meaning-object”, yet they differ as to whether such act is possible. Deconstructionists, assuming their protean vision of language as “systematic play of differences”, claim it is not, and hence deem every reading a “misreading”, while analytic aestheticians think otherwise, usually construing the objective work-meaning as “metaphysically fixed in the artwork” and identifying it with the intention of the artist or “semantic features of the work itself”.\n\nTo avoid both these extremes Shusterman proposes a conception of textual meaning inspired by Wittgenstein(and his notion of language games) in which meaning is thought of as a correlate of understanding, the latter term being conceived as “an ability to handle or respond to [something] in certain accepted ways” which, although shared and legitimized by the community, can be quite different and constitute many diverse “interpretation games”.\nInterpretation, thus, is not an act (be it successful or inherently condemned to failure) of discovering the meaning of text, but rather of constructing it, or, as Shusterman would like to put it, of “making sense’” of text. One of the corollaries of this account is that correctness of interpretation is always relative to the “rules” (typically implicit) of a given interpretation game. Since there are many different incommensurable games existing at the same time and since some of them have undergone some significant changes over history (and some may even have disappeared from use), we can speak of a plurality of correct interpretations of the same text both in synchronic and diachronic dimensions. Another consequence of this theory is Shusterman's logical pluralism which claims not only that there can be different (even contradictory), yet equally true interpretations (that would be only a cognitive pluralism), but also that there are legitimate forms of approaching texts which do not even aim at interpretational truth or plausibility, but rather aim at other useful goals (e.g., providing pleasure or making an old text more relevant to contemporary readers).\n\nAnother of Shusterman's contributions to the theory of interpretation is his critique of a widely held view he calls ‘hermeneutic universalism’, and attributes to Hans-Georg Gadamer, Alexander Nehamas and Stanley Fish, among others. Agreeing with basic anti-foundationalist thrust of the hermeneutic universalists’ position, Shusterman simultaneously rejects their thesis that “to perceive, read, understand, or behave at all intelligently [...] must always be to interpret” and seeks to refute it with many original arguments. He also insists that the notion of interpretation needs a contrasting category to guarantee its own meaningfulness. If everything is interpretation then the concept loses its point. Shusterman argues that immediate, non-interpretive understanding can serve that role of contrast. Inspired by Wittgenstein and Heidegger's theory of hermeneutic circle, Shusterman proposes:\n\n“the immediacy of uninterrupted understandings of language (as when I immediately understand simple and pertinent utterances of a language I know well) and the mediacy of interpretations (as when I encounter an utterance or text that I do not understand in terms of word-meaning or contextual relevance and then have to figure out what is meant)”.\n\nAmong Shusterman's achievements in the theory of interpretation, there are also the accounts of literary criticism he created in his earlier, analytic period, as well as his pragmatist arguments against interpretational intentionalism and his genealogical critique of deconstructionist (Harold Bloom’s, Jonathan Culler’s), analytic (Joseph Margolis’) and neo-pragmatist (Richard Rorty's, Stanley Fish's, Walter Benn Michaels and Steven Knapp’s) literary theories which, as he claims, are all governed at their core by an ideology of professionalism.\n\nAccording to Shusterman, one of the most pressing sociocultural problems of today is the aesthetic legitimization of popular art. He feels that though popular art may now seem to be socially justified, its artistic value is still questioned which leads to the following problems:\nA sincere advocate of popular aesthetics, Shusterman is careful to distinguish his stance from one-sided apologia and would rather characterize it as ‘melorism’ which “recognizes popular art’s flaws and abuses but also its merits [while also holding] that popular art should be improved because it can and often does achieve real aesthetic merits and serve worthy social ends”.\nPutting his meliorism into practice, Shusterman seeks to win aesthetic legitimation for popular art in two ways:\n\n'Somaesthetics’ is a term coined by Shusterman to denote a new philosophical discipline he has invented as a remedy for the following problems:\n\n\nThe above-mentioned conditions have determined the nature of somaesthetics as a grounded-in-philosophical-aesthetics yet interdisciplinary project of theory and practice which can be defined as:\n\nTo clarify the terminological issues, one needs to mention that Shusterman has intentionally put the term ‘soma’ (instead of the more familiar ‘body’) in the name of his disciplinary proposal to emphasize one important feature of his conception of corporeality. For Shusterman, who is a true disciple of Dewey in this regard, bodily and mental (as well as cultural and biological) dimensions of human beings are essentially inseparable, and to signify this unity (this “sentient perceiving «body-mind»”) he prefers to use the term ‘soma’ which, unlike ‘body’, does not automatically connote passive flesh contrasted to dynamic soul or mind.\n\nAlthough Shusterman's project may at first glance seem utterly innovatory and even iconoclastic, its various elements, as Shusterman himself admits, can be traced to many respected traditions: ancient Greek philosophy and the later Western philosophies (Michel de Montaigne, John Dewey, Michel Foucault), but also East-Asian wisdom such as Confucianism.\nSomaesthetics divides into three fundamental branches:\n\n\nShusterman himself works in all three somaesthetic subdisciplines:\n\n\nWhile undeniably a new phenomenon, somaesthetics, which by now forms the center of Shusterman's philosophical inquiries, has already influenced many scholars working in fields as diverse as philosophy, art education, dance theory, health and fitness studies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21967925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21967925", "title": "Soft intellectual property", "text": "Soft intellectual property\n\nSoft intellectual property is sometimes used to refer to trademarks, copyright, design rights and passing off, in contrast to \"hard intellectual property\", which is sometimes used to refer to patents. Use of this phrase is controversial among IP practitioners.\n\nThe phrase \"soft intellectual property\" or \"Soft IP\" also refers to a system for licensing patents proposed in 2008. See Soft IP.\n\nIn Semiconductors industry the term has a different meaning described at Types of IP cores \n"}
{"id": "4367800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4367800", "title": "Static trapeze", "text": "Static trapeze\n\nStatic trapeze, also known as fixed trapeze, is a type of circus art performed on the trapeze. In contrast to the other forms of trapeze, on static trapeze the bars and ropes mainly stay in place.\n\nMost often, the static trapeze is about 1.5 feet wide and the bar is generally 2 inches in diameter. The ropes are at least two human lengths, as many figures are performed on the ropes above the bar. The ropes can be made of many materials, including cotton or hemp, and often have a wire woven inside.\nIt can be performed by a single artist or two partners working together. A single artist will do tricks above and below the bar, the ropes playing just as important a part as the bar. A partner act will involve the partners working together — supporting each other's weight, throwing, lifting and catching each other. \n\nSelf-standing trapezes can be purchased for home use.\nMultiple trapeze is an act entailing the use of more than one trapeze, typically two or three. In these acts, multiple people perform simultaneously.\nThe most common type of multiple trapeze is a \"triple trapeze\". A triple trapeze has one long bar, held up by a ropes, basically three trapezes put together, with the middle trapeze sharing the ropes of the other two. Multiple trapeze can also refer to an abstract structure with trapeze like structures, inside which multiple artists may perform.\n\nAn experimental cage-like structure was created by Cirque du Soleil for their show Varekai, but was ultimately scrapped in production. However, the structure did appear in the 'Making of' documentary, 'Fire Within.'\n\nA triple trapeze is a type of static (still) trapeze with three trapezes on one bar. Therefore, there are four ropes connecting this trapeze to its frame, or whatever it is hanging from. Performers specialize in synchronized tricks. One example of a triple trapeze act can be seen in Cirque du Soleil's show Varekai.\n\n\nStatic trapeze routines are choreographed from a number of standard tricks, movements, and positions, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1572799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1572799", "title": "Suzanne de Passe", "text": "Suzanne de Passe\n\nSuzanne Celeste de Passe (born July 19, 1946) is an American television, music and film producer as well as the co-chairwoman of de Passe Jones Entertainment Group.\n\nDe Passe began her career in show business with the famous New York Cheetah club. Through her friendship with Cindy Birdsong, who replaced Florence Ballard as a member of The Supremes in 1967, she began working at Motown as Creative Assistant to company founder, Berry Gordy. Early in her career, de Passe developed Michael Jackson and his brothers (The Jackson 5)'s wardrobe and the act they took on the road. She was instrumental in taking the record label to television with a host of critically acclaimed and highly rated specials, including the multiple award-winning \"Motown 25: Yesterday, Today, Forever\" produced while she was President of Motown Productions.\n\nWhen Motown was sold, she partnered with her mentor in Gordy/de Passe Productions and subsequently established de Passe Entertainment in 1992. De Passe's long association with Mr. Gordy was featured in the December 2008 issue of \"Vanity Fair\": \"Motown the Untold Story, The Labels Greatest Legends, In Their Own Words\" with photography by Annie Leibovitz.\n\nThe subject of two Harvard Business School case studies: \"Suzanne de Passe and Motown Productions\" and \"de Passe Entertainment\", de Passe has lectured at the Harvard Business School on several occasions. In 2002, de Passe was named Time Warner Visiting Professor to the Department of Radio, Television and Film at Howard University's John H. Johnson School of Communications, a post she held for the requisite 3 years. During Howard University's 138th Charter Day celebration in March 2006, de Passe received an honorary doctorate degree of Doctor of Humanities. De Passe is currently serving as the Producer-in-Residence at Emerson College, School of the Arts in Boston. She also served as the Emerson College 2007 Balfour Distinguished Lecturer.\n\nDe Passe served as Executive Producer of the half-hour situation comedies \"Sister, Sister\" and \"Smart Guy\", both of which aired on the WB Network and were produced in association with Paramount and Disney Television, respectively.\n\nFrom 2002 until 2008 served as Executive Producer of \"Showtime at the Apollo\", a weekly variety program nationally syndicated by Warner Brother/Telepictures. In 2005 and 2006 she co-created, wrote, and Executive Produced the Black Movie Awards for TNT. Currently, she is developing \"King\", a film on the life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.\n\nDe Passe is currently featured in HBO's \"The Black List: Vol. 2\". This is the second installment of the documentary including other prominent African Americans such as filmmaker Tyler Perry, Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick, and Pastor T.D. Jakes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe recipient of an Academy Award nomination for co-writing the screenplay \"Lady Sings the Blues\", de Passe won two Emmy Awards and NAACP Image Awards as Executive Producer of \"Motown 25: Yesterday, Today, Forever\" and \"Motown Returns to the Apollo\". \nDe Passe served as Executive Producer for the highly acclaimed and multiple award-winning, CBS western m\\Mini-Series \"Lonesome Dove\", that won both Golden Globe and Peabody Awards and was voted Outstanding Program of the Year by The Television Critics Association.\n\nAs Executive Producer of the benchmark NBC Mini-Series \"The Temptations\", de Passe won an NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Mini-Series and was nominated for both a Golden Globe Award and Emmy Award for Best Mini-Series. She also served as Executive Producer for \"Small Sacrifices\", \"The Jacksons, An American Dream\" and \"Buffalo Girls\", all of which were nominated for the Emmy Award for Best Mini-Series.\n\nA veteran of over three decades in Hollywood, generating over a billion dollars in revenue in the entertainment industry, and dividing her time and talent between Los Angeles and New York, de Passe has also received countless awards for her contributions to the television, movie and music industries including:\n\nRecent community honors include:\n\nDe Passe was previously married to Paul Le Mat. Her father is of Haitian and French descent while her mother is of Caribbean descent.\n\n\nAdditionally, she has appeared as a speaker before numerous businesses and industry trade groups, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "1553078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1553078", "title": "Synthesia", "text": "Synthesia\n\nSynthesia is a piano keyboard trainer for Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X and Android which allows users to play a MIDI keyboard or use a computer keyboard in time to a MIDI file by following on-screen directions, much in the style of \"Keyboard Mania\" or \"Guitar Hero\". Additionally, Synthesia can be paired with MIDI keyboards that have illuminated keys, or with virtual player piano on screen, which some people believe makes learning piano easier for beginners. It was originally named Piano Hero, due to the similarity of gameplay with \"Guitar Hero\"; this was until Activision (the owners of the rights to \"Guitar Hero\") sent a cease and desist to the program's creator, Nicholas Piegdon.\n\nSynthesia was started around 2006 by American developer Nicholas Piegdon, and was originally named \"Piano Hero\". Hosted as an open-source project on sourceforge, it was released under MIT license.\n\nThe program was originally Windows-only, but after a donation-drive in early 2007, the game was ported to Mac OS X.\n\nIn a letter dated 26 March 2007 Activision requested that Piegdon \"\"immediately cease any and all use of the \"Piano Hero\" name in connection with the distribution and promotion of [his] video game and agree not to use such in the future\"\". Piegdon responded by hosting a contest for a new name for the project, resulting in the name, Synthesia, suggested by Daniel Lawrence.\n\nAfter May 2012 Piegdon decided to stop releasing the source code, as he saw the potential commercial value of the program. However the last open-source release version 0.6.1b is still available for download.\n\nIn the continued commercial version the basic functionality was still freeware. \nA \"Learning Pack\" key could be purchased to unlock the freemium additional features, such as a sheet music display mode. \nIn December 2014, with Version 10 of Synthesia, the ability to use the program without purchasing it was removed, with the exception of several playable included demo MIDIs.\n\nSynthesia has support for playing custom MIDI files, as well as linking with MIDI devices. Synthesia will rate the player's performance afterwards, and give a score which can be submitted to an online scoreboard. Synthesia also has a paid \"Learning Pack\" that allows users to view music in Musical notation, as well as multiple practice features, such as \"Melody Practice\" which pauses the song whenever the user misses a note, and only continues when the right note is played.\n\nAlternatives include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48702623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48702623", "title": "Thattai (instrument)", "text": "Thattai (instrument)\n\nThe thattai is an Indian percussion instrument, belonging to the idiophone instruments family. It consists in a cane tube, in which the end has three reeds (two of them free) that produce a percussive sound when the shaft is shaken with one hand. Thattai is used as a toy or as rhythmic accompaniment instrument.\n\n"}
{"id": "56306630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56306630", "title": "The Colossus of Rhodes (Dalí)", "text": "The Colossus of Rhodes (Dalí)\n\nThe Colossus of Rhodes is a 1954 oil painting by Salvador Dalí. It is one of a series of seven paintings he created for the 1956 movie \"Seven Wonders of the World\", each depicting one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, and shows the Colossus of Rhodes, the ancient statue of the Greek titan-god of the sun, Helios. It was never used for the film, and in 1981 was donated by Georges F. Keller to its present location, the Kunstmuseum Bern.\n\nDalí's rendering of the Colossus is heavily influenced by a paper, read in 1953 and published in 1956, by Herbert Maryon, a sculptor and conservator\nat the British Museum. Maryon had proposed a hollow Colossus that was made of hammered bronze plates, and stood aside the harbour rather than astride it. He also suggested that it had incorporated a hanging piece of drapery to give the statue a stable tripod base. All of these ideas were used by Dalí, whose depiction looks remarkably similar to Maryon's.\n\n\"The Colossus of Rhodes\" arose out of Dalí's longstanding fascination with Hollywood. He described the industry as a surrealist medium, and termed Walt Disney, Cecil B. DeMille and the Marx Brothers as \"the three great American Surrealists\"; in his 1937 essay \"Surrealism in Hollywood\", he declared that \"Nothing seems to me more suited to be devoured by the surrealist fire than those mysterious strips of 'hallucinatory celluloid' turned out so unconsciously in Hollywood, and in which we have already seen appear, stupefied, so many images of authentic delirium, chance and dream\". For the 1956 Cinerama film \"Seven Wonders of the World\", Dalí was commissioned to create seven paintings: \"The Colossus of Rhodes\", \"The Pyramids\", \"The Statue of Olympian Zeus\", \"The Temple of Diana at Ephesus\", \"The Walls of Babylon\", and two versions of the same wonder, \"The Lighthouse of Alexandria\" and \"Lighthouse of Alexandria\". In 1955 he also executed a similar copy, \"Walls of Babylon\", and painted the last wonder, with \"The Mausoleum at Halicarnassus\". The paintings for the film were made, yet went unused.\n\nDalí's rendering of the Colossus is heavily influenced by a 1953 paper by Herbert Maryon, a sculptor and British Museum conservator particularly known for his reconstruction of the Sutton Hoo helmet. On 3 December 1953 he presented a paper to the Society of Antiquaries of London, also entitled \"The Colossus of Rhodes\". It suggested that the statue was hollow, and stood aside the harbour rather than astride it. Made of hammered bronze plates less than thick, Maryon said, the Colossus would have been supported on its base by a hanging piece of drapery acting as a third point of support. Although the paper was not published until 1956, two years after Dalí created his painting, newspaper articles about Maryon's 1953 presentation proliferated quickly and internationally. In this context the painting \"does not look extremely original.\" Dalí copied the likeness of the Colossus put forth by Maryon, clearly depicting hammered plates of bronze, and showing the same tripod structure with the statue supported by a piece of drapery.\n\nThe painting is named after its subject, the Colossus of Rhodes, a statue of the Greek titan-god of the sun Helios that was erected in the city of Rhodes by Chares of Lindos in 280 BC. The perspective is from below the statue's base, suggesting that the location of the viewer is set in a boat approaching the city, and emphasising the statue's massive size and height. A piece of drapery hangs around the waist of Helios and from his left arm, falling down to touch the ground behind him. The statue appears to be made of bronze, and had a segmented construction entirely composed of numerous individual plates. Helios raises his right hand to shield his eyes from the sun that he is the god of, giving \"a vaguely Surrealist touch\" to Dalí's work. In the lower right is signed \"Salvador Dalí / 1954\".\n\nDalí's greatest connection with surrealism came before 1940, when his works explored the subconscious and his perception of the world. \"The Persistence of Memory\", one of the works with which he is most identified, came in 1931, representing a decade that saw Dalí firmly within the avant-garde. A move to the United States in 1940 brought new financial pressures, heightening his already marked showmanship and helping to occasion his relationship with Hollywood, and the end of World War II introduced a focus on the historical, scientific, and religious, to Dalí's work.\n\n\"The Colossus of Rhodes\" exemplifies Dalí's focus on cinema and the historical and scientific, and the loosening of his grip on surrealism. It is only marginally surrealist—the god of the sun shields himself from his domain—and resembles a movie poster, befitting a work commissioned for a movie. Nor does Dalí offer a particularly original take on the Colossus, which is heavily influenced by Maryon's suggestions.\n\nThe painting is in the collection of the Kunstmuseum Bern, where it forms part of the 1981 Georges F. Keller bequest. Its accession number is G 82.007. In the 1980s and 1990s it was exhibited in Europe and North America: at the Museo de Arte Moderno in Madrid during 1983, at the Staatsgalerie Stuttgart in Stuttgart during 1989, at the Louisiana Museum of Modern Art in Humlebaek from 1989 to 1990, and later that year in Montréal, at the Musée des Beaux-Arts.\n\nSeveral of the other paintings in the \"Seven Wonders of the World\" series have come up for sale. \"The Statue of Olympian Zeus\" was sold by Sotheby's in 2009 for $482,500, and is now in the collection of the Morohashi Museum of Modern Art. In 2013 Sotheby's also sold \"The Temple of Diana at Ephesus\", for $845,000; it is now in a private collection. \"The Walls of Babylon\" was offered for sale by Sotheby's in 2014 with an estimate of £300,000–400,000, but was bought in. Dalí's thematically similar 1955 paintings have also been auctioned. Christie's sold \"The Mausoleum at Halicarnassus\" for $1,325,000 in 2016, and \"Walls of Babylon\" in 2001 for £168,750.\n\n"}
{"id": "42892459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42892459", "title": "The Ethics of Immigration", "text": "The Ethics of Immigration\n\nThe Ethics of Immigration is a September 2013 book by the philosopher Joseph Carens.\n\nThe first eight chapters of the book argue for a robust system of migrant rights and equal treatment of migrants and natives, while conceding the legitimacy of nation-states and their discretionary control over migration. The ninth and tenth chapter discuss illegal immigrants, family reunification, and refugees. The eleventh chapter argues for open borders, and challenges the presumption of discretionary control over migration, while still staying within the framework of legitimacy of nation-states.\n\nDylan Matthews interviewed Carens on his book for the \"Wonkblog\" section of the \"Washington Post\". Carens was also interviewed about the book for \"New Books in Philosophy\".\n\nIn April 2014, \"Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews\" published a review of the book by Arash Abizadeh of McGill University. In late May 2014, the Crooked Timber blog hosted a symposium on the book, with contributions from Chris Bertram, Kenan Malik, Ryan Pevnick, Phillip Cole, Speranta Dumitru, Sarah Fine, Jo Shaw, Brian Weatherson, and others. Carens responded to the critiques in two blog posts.\n"}
{"id": "53824793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53824793", "title": "Venus of Eliseevichi", "text": "Venus of Eliseevichi\n\nThe Venus of Eliseevichi is a Venus figurine from the Epigravettian.\n\nThe figurine was discovered in 1930, near the Sudost River in the province of Briansk in Russia. It is 15 cm high and was carved from mammoth ivory. Remarkably, the figurine depicts a young woman, just like the Venus impudique.\n\nHenri Delporte: \"L’image de la femme dans l’art préhistorique\", Ed. Picard 1979.\n\nDescription and pictures of the Venus of Eliseevichi\n"}
{"id": "29716954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29716954", "title": "Vetusta Monumenta", "text": "Vetusta Monumenta\n\nVetusta Monumenta is the title of a published series of illustrated antiquarian papers on ancient buildings, sites, and artefacts, mostly those of Britain, published at irregular intervals between 1718 and 1906 by the Society of Antiquaries of London. The folio sized papers, usually written by members of the society, were first published individually, and then later in collected volumes.\n\nThe full title is \"Vetusta monumenta quae ad Rerum Britanicarum memoriam conservandam Societas Antiquariorum Londini sumptu suo edenda curavit\", but the volumes are normally simply cited as \"Vetusta Monumenta\". There were various reprints of both individual papers and collected volumes, and the plates were often published separately from the text. According to the HOLLIS database at Harvard: \"The seven volumes are dated 1747, 1789, 1796, 1815, 1835, 1883 and 1906 (for the fourth part of vol.7). The plates for vol. 1 were published between 1718 and 1747; plates for vol. 2 were published between 1748 and 1789; plates for vol. 3 were published between 1790 and 1796; plates for vol. 4 were published between 1799 and 1815; plates for vol. 5 were published between 1816 and 1835; plates for vol. 6 were published between 1821 and 1885; plates for the four parts of vol. 7 were published between 1893 and 1906.\"\n\nThe series began the same year that the society formalized its existence with the first minuted meeting on January 1, 1718, at the Mitre Tavern, Fleet Street; the society's main journal \"Archaeologia\" did not begin publication until 1770. Members of the society received a free copy as each part was published.\n\nThe emphasis was on the large and detailed illustrations, initially high quality engravings, which conveyed information on the subject matter in an accessible and economical way. Each issue was usually developed from papers and research of the society, giving a text description accompanied by illustrated details it had commissioned. The assemblage of maps, site plans, and other detail was a novelty that found popular appeal.\n\nThe views in the series contained images of people and other means of conveying scale, providing the perspective of the interested visitor. These accompanied text descriptions for the sites, but provided additional information with high levels of detail and multiple or idealised viewpoints to simulate a well informed tour. Many of the plates show the setting, inset with exploded views, cross sections and other architectural details, or objects found at the site. Other figures were interspersed with the text, or taking up several full pages. Critics have compared this approach with contemporaneous works that included the subject as an attractively sketched scene, illustrations were not yet recognised as a valuable source of information. The book used the multiple and separate details to synthesise encyclopaedic surveys that typified the approach of the natural historians and antiquaries, what Barbara Maria Stafford has described as \"cross-referencing material bits of distant reality\".\n\nAn 1803 article on the Rosetta Stone was amongst the earliest published research. The first detailed account of the medieval French Royal Gold Cup in the British Museum was published in one of the last papers, of 1904, by Sir Charles Hercules Read.\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of noted contributors, and their articles:\n\nNotices on illustrations mention the following engravers:\n\n"}
{"id": "617689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=617689", "title": "Women's interest channel", "text": "Women's interest channel\n\nA women's interest channel generally refers to either a television station, network or specialty channel that targets women as its main demographic; offering programs that will appeal to the female population. \n\nThere are two types of female interest channels: \"general interest\" and \"niche interest\".\n\nGeneral interest women's channels are television channels that contain programming from various categories and genres that will appeal to the female population including films, lifestyle series, dramatic series, reality series, and talk shows on varying topics including cooking, travel, cars, sex, and sports.\n\n\nNiche interest women's channels are television channels that contain programming with a specific television genre such as film channels, and lifestyle channels.\n\n"}
