{"id": "45492939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45492939", "title": "1995 in Danish television", "text": "1995 in Danish television\n\nThis is a list of Danish television related events from 1995.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8672710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8672710", "title": "1st Division (North Korea)", "text": "1st Division (North Korea)\n\nThe 1st Infantry Division is a military formation of the Korean People's Army.\n\nIt was part of the North Korean advance from Seoul to Taejon.\n\nThe division fought in the Battle of Pusan Perimeter.\n\nThe intelligence section of U.S Far East Command headquarters listed the divisions order of battle as a 31 July 1952 as follows:\n\nThis same report listed the 1st Division as being in III Corps Reserve at the same time period.\n"}
{"id": "45517935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45517935", "title": "2009 in South African television", "text": "2009 in South African television\n\nThis is a list of South African television related events from 2009.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28921006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28921006", "title": "Abortion in Liechtenstein", "text": "Abortion in Liechtenstein\n\nAbortion in Liechtenstein is illegal in almost all circumstances and is punishable by prison terms for the woman and the physician. An attempt to legalize it in 2011 was defeated by voters. In April and November 2012, the Landtag failed to advance proposals to relax abortion laws.\n\nSection 96 of the Liechtenstein Penal Code, 1987, provides that abortion is illegal except in cases of serious danger to the woman's life or health that can only be prevented with a termination or when the woman was under the age of 14 at the time of conception and unmarried to the man who impregnated her. Illegal abortions are punishable by prison terms of up to three years for the physician and up to one year for the woman. Section 98 of the Penal Code additionally criminalizes performing or encouraging an abortion without a careful inquiry into its medical necessity as well as any type of promotion of abortion services.\n\nIn the double referendum on abortion on 27 November 2005, 81% of voters rejected a \"For Life\" proposal to prohibit all abortion, while 80% passed the Landtag's counterproposal, which had been condemned by anti-abortion campaigners.\n\nA proposal to legalize abortion in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy or when the child would be disabled was defeated by 52.3% of voters in the 2011 referendum held on 18 September. Prince Alois had previously threatened to veto the proposal if it passed.\nWomen in Liechtenstein who choose to have an abortions must cross the border to either Switzerland or Austria to have the procedure carried out legally. Women must also travel to those countries to obtain advice on their options, as they face the threat of prosecution at home. It is estimated that approximately 50 women a year have abortions, either illegally in Liechtenstein or abroad in either Switzerland or Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "19748633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19748633", "title": "Accra Milo Marathon", "text": "Accra Milo Marathon\n\nAccra Milo Marathon is an annual event held in Accra, the capital city of Ghana. It has been held since 1987 and is still moving ahead. Winners of this event are usually sent to compete in the Amsterdam Marathon. It starts at the Point in Nungua and the finish line is at the Dansoman Keep Fit Club. It is normally run in September but sometimes October when the need arises.\n"}
{"id": "31692874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31692874", "title": "Agence Nationale de l'Aviation Civile et de la Météorologie (Comoros)", "text": "Agence Nationale de l'Aviation Civile et de la Météorologie (Comoros)\n\nThe Agence Nationale de l'Aviation Civile et de la Météorologie de l'Union des Comores (ANACM \"National Civil Aviation and Meteorological Agency\") is the civil aviation authority of the Comoros. It is also in charge of investigating aviation accidents and incidents. Its head office is in Moroni.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8169073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8169073", "title": "Antarctic Snow Cruiser", "text": "Antarctic Snow Cruiser\n\nThe Antarctic Snow Cruiser was a vehicle designed from 1937 to 1939 under the direction of Thomas Poulter, intended to facilitate transport in Antarctica. The Snow Cruiser was also known as \"The Penguin,\" \"Penguin 1\" or \"Turtle\" in some published material.\n\nWhile having several innovative features, it generally failed to operate as hoped under the difficult conditions, and was eventually abandoned in Antarctica. Rediscovered under a deep layer of snow in 1958, it later disappeared again due to shifting ice conditions.\n\nOn April 29, 1939, Poulter and \"The Research Foundation of the Armour Institute of Technology\" showed the plans to officials in Washington, D.C.. The Research Foundation would finance the cost and oversee the construction, and lend the vehicle to the United States Antarctic Service. Work began on August 8, 1939 and lasted for 11 weeks. On October 24, 1939, the vehicle was fired up for the first time at the Pullman Company just south of Chicago and began the journey to the Boston Army Wharf. During the trip, a damaged steering system caused the vehicle to drive off a small bridge on the Lincoln Highway and into a stream near the town of Gomer, Ohio near Lima, Ohio, where it remained for 3 days. After it arrived in Boston, it departed for Antarctica on November 15, 1939 aboard the ship the \"North Star\".\n\nThe Snow Cruiser arrived at Little America in the Bay of Whales, Antarctica with United States Antarctic Service Expedition in early January 1940 and experienced many problems. It was necessary to construct a ramp from timber to unload the vehicle. As the vehicle was unloaded from the ship, one of the wheels broke through the ramp. The crew cheered when Poulter powered the vehicle free from the ramp but the cheers fell silent when the vehicle failed to move through the snow and ice. The large, smooth, tread-less tires were originally designed for a large swamp vehicle; they spun freely and provided very little forward movement, sinking as much a into the snow. The crew attached the two spare tires to the front wheels of the vehicle and installed chains on the rear wheels, but were unable to overcome the lack of traction. The crew later found that the tires produced more traction when driven backwards. The longest trek was – driven completely in reverse. On January 24, 1940, Poulter returned to the US, leaving F. Alton Wade in charge of a partial crew. The scientists conducted seismologic experiments, cosmic-ray measurements, and ice core sampling while living in the snow- and timber-covered Snow Cruiser. Funding for the project was canceled as the focus in the United States became World War II.\n\nDuring Operation Highjump in late 1946, an expedition team found the vehicle and discovered it needed only air in the tires and some servicing to make it operational. In 1958, an international expedition uncovered the snow cruiser using a bulldozer. It was covered by several feet of snow but a long bamboo pole marked its position. They were able to dig down to the location of the bottom of the wheels and accurately measure the amount of snowfall since it was abandoned. Inside, the vehicle was exactly as the crew had left it, with papers, magazines, and cigarettes scattered all around.\n\nLater expeditions reported no trace of the vehicle. Although there was some unsubstantiated speculation that the (traction-less) Snow Cruiser was taken by the Soviet Union during the Cold War, the vehicle most likely is either at the bottom of the Southern Ocean or buried deep under snow and ice. Antarctic ice is in constant motion and the ice shelf is constantly moving out to sea. In the mid-1960s, a large chunk of the Ross Ice Shelf broke off and drifted away; the break occurred right through Little America. It is not known on which side of the ice shelf the Snow Cruiser was located.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3741659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3741659", "title": "Associação dos Escuteiros de Cabo Verde", "text": "Associação dos Escuteiros de Cabo Verde\n\nThe Associação dos Escuteiros de Cabo Verde, the national Scouting organization of Cape Verde, was founded in 1990, and became a member of the World Organization of the Scout Movement in 2002. The Associação dos Escuteiros de Cabo Verde has 733 members as of 2004.\n\nThe association is a member of the Comunidade do Escutismo Lusófono (Community of Lusophone Scouting).\n\n\nThe Scout Motto is \"Alerta\", \"Alert\" in Portuguese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32092196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32092196", "title": "Bansa", "text": "Bansa\n\nBansa may also refer to a village in Nissing, Karnal district, Haryana, India.\n\nBansa is a village in the Ga East Municipal district, a district in the Greater Accra Region of Ghana.\n\nThe village is under the jurisdiction of the Ga East Municipal District and is in the Abokobi-Madina constituency of the Ghana parliament.\n"}
{"id": "4394979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4394979", "title": "Belgrade Circle", "text": "Belgrade Circle\n\nThe Belgrade Circle is an NGO established in Belgrade, Serbia, in February 1992.\n\nInitially, the organisation hosted lectures and discussions with mainly Serbian intellectuals, united by their opposition to the nationalist policies of Slobodan Milošević. The Belgrade Circle formed links with NGOs in other parts of the former Yugoslavia, and began to gain an international reputation, hosting lectures by internationally acclaimed intellectuals including Jacques Derrida, Christopher Norris and Richard Rorty. The organisation now focuses on strengthening civil society, and works in co-operation with universities and academics from across the world. It also publishes the \"Belgrade Circle Journal\", which is a member of the Eurozine network and has published prominent thinkers such as Rorty, Jürgen Habermas and Noam Chomsky.\n\n"}
{"id": "2783652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2783652", "title": "Bloso", "text": "Bloso\n\nBloso was the shortened name for the Flemish sports agency. Within Belgium, it was the Flemish counterpart of French-speaking ADEPS. Both agencies were founded in 1969 to succeed the state-founded national INEPS/NILOS. \n\nIn 2016 Bloso became Sport Vlaanderen by the merger with the smaller departement Sport, an other sports administration of the Flemish government. The new agency acquired thereby more responsibilities and greater authority on sport in Flanders. \n\nSport Vlaanderen has several responsibilities:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43398556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43398556", "title": "Borgholm Church", "text": "Borgholm Church\n\nBorgholm Church () is a church in Borgholm on Swedish Baltic Sea island of Öland. Belonging to Borgholm Parish of the Church of Sweden, it was opened on Pentecost Sunday in 1879.\n"}
{"id": "9206107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9206107", "title": "Brutalists", "text": "Brutalists\n\nBrutalism is a literary movement formed in 2006 by three writers from the north of England (Tony O'Neill, Adelle Stripe and Ben Myers), and may have been the first literary movement to be launched via the social networking site Myspace where it announced itself with the following manifesto:\n\n\"Brutalism calls for writing that touches upon levels of raw honesty that is a lacking from most mainstream fiction. We cannot simply sit around waiting to be discovered — we would rather do it ourselves. Total control, total creativity. The Brutalists see ourselves as a band who have put down their instruments and picked up their pens and scalpels instead. The only maxim we adhere to is an old punk belief, which we have bastardized for our own means: Here’s a laptop. Here’s a spell-check. Now write a book..\"\n\nBrutalist works include \"Digging the Vein\", \"Down and Out on Murder Mile\", \"Seizure Wet Dreams\", and \"Songs from the Shooting Gallery\" by Tony O'Neill, \"Some Things Are Better Left Unsaid\" and \"Cigarettes in Bed\" by Adelle Stripe, and \"The Book of Fuck\", \"\" and \"Pig Iron\" by Ben Myers.\n\nTheir debut publication \"Nowhere Fast\" was released as a chapbook on Captains of Industry Press in 2007.\n\nThe Brutalists are affiliated with the Offbeat generation, a loose association of like-minded writers working across different styles but united by their opposition to a mainstream publishing industry driven by marketing departments.\n\nBrutalism 2 \"Cheap Thrills\" was released in summer 2009 as part of Mineshaft Magazine, where a new collection of Brutalist poems featured alongside unpublished work by Robert Crumb and Charles Bukowski.\n\n"}
{"id": "17594100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17594100", "title": "CEIBA Intercontinental", "text": "CEIBA Intercontinental\n\nCEIBA Intercontinental is an airline based in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea, and its main hub at Malabo International Airport.\n\nThe airline was on the list of air carriers banned in the European Union but it currently has scheduled direct flights from Malabo to Madrid.\n\nIn 2009, the Agence France Press (AFP) reported that the CEO of CEIBA Intercontinental Mamadou Jaye, a Senagalese citizen of Gambian origin, left Equatorial Guinea with a suitcase containing 3.5 billion CFA francs (approximately 5 million euros or 6.5 million United States dollars) and spare ATR aircraft parts to negotiate trade deals with Côte d'Ivoire, The Gambia, Ghana, and Senegal and to establish a West African office for CEIBA. The report said that Jaye never returned to Equatorial Guinea. \n\nJaye denied that he took money from the company and filed a lawsuit against Rodrigo Angwe, the Malabo-based correspondent for Agence France Presse and Radio France Internationale (RFI) who submitted the story. Angwe used an employee as a source; the employee said that he received the information from the internet. After the employee's admission, AFP and RFI retracted the story. Jaye accused Angwe of publishing the internet article himself.\n\nCEIBA Intercontinental flies to the following destinations as of August 2017:\n\nAs of August 2017, CEIBA Intercontinental operates the following aircraft:\n\nCEIBA Intercontinental aircraft have economy class and business class cabins. In addition, the airline's single Boeing 777-200LR includes a first class cabin.\n\nOn 5 September 2015, a Boeing 737 flying Flight C2-71 (Dakar - Cotonou) collided with a HS-125 air ambulance flying from Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, to Dakar, Senegal. The Boeing 737 diverted to Malabo where it landed safely. The air ambulance apparently suffered a decompression incident and is believed to have crashed in the Atlantic Ocean. \n"}
{"id": "31045286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31045286", "title": "Darcy's Story", "text": "Darcy's Story\n\nDarcy's Story by Janet Aylmer was one of the first novels published after the success of the BBC One serial of Jane Austen's \"Pride and Prejudice\" in 1995.\n\nPublished in England in 1996, the novel tells the story from Mr. Darcy's point of view. In 2006, the novel was published by HarperCollins in the US. According to the author's website, over 150,000 copies of this book have been sold worldwide.\n\nAuthor Janet Aylmer has since published a sequel, \"Dialogue with Darcy\".\n\nIn all, Aylmer has written five novels and one non-fiction book about history in Bath linked with Jane Austen:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10323160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10323160", "title": "Eleftheros Kosmos", "text": "Eleftheros Kosmos\n\nEleutheros Kosmos (, \"Free World\") is a Greek weekly nationalist newspaper, owned by Dimitrios Zaphiropoulos, which was founded in 2003 as an \"independent national newspaper\". Though ideologically distinct, the newspaper bears the same name as the original \"Eleftheros Kosmos\", which was an inspiration for the creation of the new \"Eleftheros Kosmos\" owing to its historical renown among nationalists. The original newspaper was in effect the official mouthpiece of the Regime of the Colonels dictatorship which ruled Greece from 1967 to 1974.\n\nIn 2007, the newspaper was sued by the Central Board of Jewish Communities in Greece and the Greek Helsinki Monitor for \"insult of Jews\" and \"injury to Judaism\", stemming from the newspaper's publication of extracts from Konstantinos Plevris' controversial book \"Jews: The Whole Truth\". Both Plevris and \"Eleftheros Kosmos\" characterize the lawsuit as an attempt to suppress free speech. The trial, which was to begin on 5 September, was postponed to 11 September. On 13 December \"Eleftheros Kosmos\" was found not guilty of inciting racial hatred, although the co-accused Plevris was found guilty on first degree. In an appeal on 27 March 2009, K. Plevris was found innocent and acquitted of all charges.\n\n"}
{"id": "923406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=923406", "title": "Fall of the Western Roman Empire", "text": "Fall of the Western Roman Empire\n\nThe Fall of the Western Roman Empire (also called Fall of the Roman Empire or Fall of Rome) was the process of decline in the Western Roman Empire in which the Empire failed to enforce its rule, and its vast territory was divided into several successor polities. The Roman Empire lost the strengths that had allowed it to exercise effective control over its Western provinces; modern historians mention factors including the effectiveness and numbers of the army, the health and numbers of the Roman population, the strength of the economy, the competence of the Emperors, the internal struggles for power, the religious changes of the period, and the efficiency of the civil administration. Increasing pressure from barbarians outside Roman culture also contributed greatly to the collapse. The reasons for the collapse are major subjects of the historiography of the ancient world and they inform much modern discourse on state failure.\n\nRelevant dates include 117 CE, when the Empire was at its greatest territorial extent, and the accession of Diocletian in 284. Irreversible major territorial loss, however, began in 376 with a large-scale irruption of Goths and others. In 395, after winning two destructive civil wars, Theodosius I died, leaving a collapsing field army and the Empire, still plagued by Goths, divided between the warring ministers of his two incapable sons. Further barbarian groups crossed the Rhine and other frontiers, and like the Goths were not exterminated, expelled or subjected. The armed forces of the Western Empire became few and ineffective, and despite brief recoveries under able leaders, central rule was never effectively consolidated. By 476 when Odoacer deposed Romulus Augustulus, the Western Roman Emperor wielded negligible military, political, or financial power and had no effective control over the scattered Western domains that could still be described as Roman. Barbarian kingdoms had established their own power in much of the area of the Western Empire. While its legitimacy lasted for centuries longer and its cultural influence remains today, the Western Empire never had the strength to rise again. The Eastern Empire survived, and though lessened in strength remained for centuries an effective power of the Eastern Mediterranean.\n\nWhile the loss of political unity and military control is universally acknowledged, the Fall is not the only unifying concept for these events; the period described as Late Antiquity emphasizes the cultural continuities throughout and beyond the political collapse.\n\nSince 1776, when Edward Gibbon published the first volume of his \"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\", Decline and Fall has been the theme around which much of the history of the Roman Empire has been structured. \"From the eighteenth century onward,\" historian Glen Bowersock wrote, \"we have been obsessed with the fall: it has been valued as an archetype for every perceived decline, and, hence, as a symbol for our own fears.\" The Fall is not the only unifying concept for these events; the period described as Late Antiquity emphasizes the cultural continuities throughout and beyond the political collapse.\n\nThe Fall of the Western Roman Empire was the process in which it failed to enforce its rule. The loss of centralized political control over the West, and the lessened power of the East, are universally agreed, but the theme of decline has been taken to cover a much wider time span than the hundred years from 376. For Cassius Dio, the accession of the emperor Commodus in 180 CE marked the descent \"from a kingdom of gold to one of rust and iron\"., while Gibbon also began his narrative of decline from rule of Commodus, after a number of introductory chapters. Arnold J. Toynbee and James Burke argue that the entire Imperial era was one of steady decay of institutions founded in republican times, while Theodor Mommsen excluded the imperial period from his Nobel Prize-winning \"History of Rome\" (1854–56). As one convenient marker for the end, 476 has been used since Gibbon, but other key dates for the fall of the Roman Empire in the West include the Crisis of the Third Century, the Crossing of the Rhine in 406 (or 405), the sack of Rome in 410, and the death of Julius Nepos in 480.\n\nGibbon gave a classic formulation of reasons why the Fall happened. He began an ongoing controversy by attributing a significant role to Christianity in the Western Roman Empire's fall, which is no longer accepted by modern Roman historians. However, he did give great weight to other causes of internal decline as well and to the attacks from outside the Empire. \nAlexander Demandt enumerated 210 different theories on why Rome fell, and new ideas have emerged since. Historians still try to analyze the reasons for loss of political control over a vast territory (and, as a subsidiary theme, the reasons for the survival of the Eastern Roman Empire). Comparison has also been made with China after the end of the Han dynasty, which re-established unity under the Sui dynasty while the Mediterranean world remained politically disunited.\n\nFrom at least the time of Henri Pirenne scholars have described a continuity of Roman culture and political legitimacy long after 476. Pirenne postponed the demise of classical civilization to the 8th century. He challenged the notion that Germanic barbarians had caused the Western Roman Empire to end, and he refused to equate the end of the Western Roman Empire with the end of the office of emperor in Italy. He pointed out the essential continuity of the economy of the Roman Mediterranean even after the barbarian invasions, and suggested that only the Muslim conquests represented a decisive break with antiquity. The more recent formulation of a historical period characterized as \"Late Antiquity\" emphasizes the transformations of ancient to medieval worlds within a cultural continuity. In recent decades archaeologically-based argument even extends the continuity in material culture and in patterns of settlement as late as the eleventh century. Observing the political reality of lost control, but also the cultural and archaeological continuities, the process has been described as a complex cultural transformation, rather than a fall.\n\nThe Roman Empire reached its greatest geographical extent under Trajan (r. 98–117), who ruled a prosperous state that stretched from Armenia to the Atlantic. The Empire had large numbers of trained, supplied, and disciplined soldiers, as well as a comprehensive civil administration based in thriving cities with effective control over public finances. Among its literate elite it had ideological legitimacy as the only worthwhile form of civilization and a cultural unity based on comprehensive familiarity with Greek and Roman literature and rhetoric. The Empire's power allowed it to maintain extreme differences of wealth and status (including slavery on a large scale), and its wide-ranging trade networks permitted even modest households to use goods made by professionals far away.\n\nIts financial system allowed it to raise significant taxes which, despite endemic corruption, supported a large regular army with logistics and training. The \"cursus honorum\", a standardized series of military and civil posts organised for ambitious aristocratic men, ensured that powerful noblemen became familiar with military and civil command and administration. At a lower level within the army, connecting the aristocrats at the top with the private soldiers, a large number of centurions were well-rewarded, literate, and responsible for training, discipline, administration, and leadership in battle. City governments with their own properties and revenues functioned effectively at a local level; membership of city councils involved lucrative opportunities for independent decision-making, and, despite its obligations, became seen as a privilege. Under a series of emperors who each adopted a mature and capable successor, the Empire did not require civil wars to regulate the imperial succession. Requests could be submitted directly to the better emperors, and the answers had the force of law, putting the imperial power directly in touch with even humble subjects. The cults of polytheist religion were hugely varied, but none claimed that theirs was the only truth, and their followers displayed mutual tolerance, producing a polyphonous religious harmony. Religious strife was rare after the suppression of the Bar Kokhba revolt in 136 (after which the devastated Judaea ceased to be a major centre for Jewish unrest). Heavy mortality in 165–180 from the Antonine Plague seriously impaired attempts to repel Germanic invaders, but the legions generally held or at least speedily re-instated the borders of the Empire.\n\nThe Empire suffered multiple serious crises during the third century. The rising Sassanid Empire inflicted three crushing defeats on Roman field armies and remained a potent threat for centuries. Other disasters included repeated civil wars, barbarian invasions, and more mass-mortality in the Plague of Cyprian (from 250 onwards). Rome abandoned the province of Dacia on the north of the Danube (271), and for a short period the Empire split into a Gallic Empire in the West (260–274), a Palmyrene Empire in the East (260–273), and a central Roman rump state. The Rhine/Danube frontier also came under more effective threats from larger barbarian groupings, which had developed improved agriculture and increased their populations.\nThe Empire survived the \"Crisis of the Third Century\", directing its economy successfully towards defense, but survival came at the price of a more centralized and bureaucratic state. Under Gallienus (Emperor from 253 to 268) the senatorial aristocracy ceased joining the ranks of the senior military commanders, its typical members lacking interest in military service and showing incompetence at command.\n\nAurelian reunited the empire in 274, and from 284 Diocletian and his successors reorganized it with more emphasis on the military. John the Lydian, writing over two centuries later, reported that Diocletian's army at one point totaled 389,704 men, plus 45,562 in the fleets, and numbers may have increased later. With the limited communications of the time, both the European and the Eastern frontiers needed the attention of their own supreme commanders. Diocletian tried to solve this problem by re-establishing an adoptive succession with a senior (\"Augustus\") and junior (\"Caesar\") emperor in each half of the Empire, but this system of tetrarchy broke down within one generation; the hereditary principle re-established itself with generally unfortunate results, and thereafter civil war became again the main method of establishing new imperial regimes. Although Constantine the Great (in office 306 to 337) again re-united the Empire, towards the end of the fourth century the need for division was generally accepted. From then on, the Empire existed in constant tension between the need for two emperors and their mutual mistrust.\n\nUntil late in the fourth century the united Empire retained sufficient power to launch attacks against its enemies in Germania and in the Sassanid Empire. \"Receptio\" of barbarians became widely practiced: imperial authorities admitted potentially hostile groups into the Empire, split them up, and allotted to them lands, status, and duties within the imperial system. In this way many groups provided unfree workers (\"coloni\") for Roman landowners, and recruits (\"laeti\") for the Roman army. Sometimes their leaders became officers. Normally the Romans managed the process carefully, with sufficient military force on hand to ensure compliance, and cultural assimilation followed over the next generation or two.\n\nThe new supreme rulers disposed of the legal fiction of the early Empire (seeing the emperor as but the first among equals); emperors from Aurelian (reigned 270–275) onwards openly styled themselves as \"dominus et deus\", \"lord and god\", titles appropriate for a master-slave relationship. An elaborate court ceremonial developed, and obsequious flattery became the order of the day. Under Diocletian, the flow of direct requests to the emperor rapidly reduced and soon ceased altogether. No other form of direct access replaced them, and the emperor received only information filtered through his courtiers.\n\nOfficial cruelty, supporting extortion and corruption, may also have become more commonplace. While the scale, complexity, and violence of government were unmatched, the emperors lost control over their whole realm insofar as that control came increasingly to be wielded by anyone who paid for it. Meanwhile, the richest senatorial families, immune from most taxation, engrossed more and more of the available wealth and income, while also becoming divorced from any tradition of military excellence. One scholar identifies a great increase in the purchasing power of gold, two and a half fold from 274 to the later fourth century, which may be an index of growing economic inequality between a gold-rich elite and a cash-poor peasantry.\n\nWithin the late Roman military, many recruits and even officers had barbarian origins, and soldiers are recorded as using possibly-barbarian rituals such as elevating a claimant on shields. Some scholars have seen this as an indication of weakness; others disagree, seeing neither barbarian recruits nor new rituals as causing any problem with the effectiveness or loyalty of the army.\n\nIn 313 Constantine I declared official toleration of Christianity, followed over the ensuing decades by establishment of Christian orthodoxy and by official and private action against pagans and non-orthodox Christians. His successors generally continued this process, and Christianity became the religion of any ambitious civil official. Under Constantine the cities lost their revenue from local taxes, and under Constantius II (r. 337–361) their endowments of property. This worsened the existing difficulty in keeping the city councils up to strength, and the services provided by the cities were scamped or abandoned. Public building projects became fewer, more often repairs than new construction, and now provided at state expense rather than by local grandees wishing to consolidate long-term local influence. A further financial abuse was Constantius's increased habit of granting to his immediate entourage the estates of persons condemned of treason and other capital charges; this reduced future though not immediate income, and those close to the emperor gained a strong incentive to stimulate his suspicion of plots.\n\nConstantine settled Franks on the lower left bank of the Rhine; their settlements required a line of fortifications to keep them in check, indicating that Rome had lost almost all local control. Under Constantius, bandits came to dominate areas such as Isauria well within the empire. The tribes of Germany also became more populous and more threatening. In Gaul, which did not really recover from the invasions of the third century, there was widespread insecurity and economic decline in the 300s, perhaps worst in Armorica. By 350, after decades of pirate attacks, virtually all villas in Armorica were deserted, and local use of money ceased about 360. Repeated attempts to economize on military expenditure included billeting troops in cities, where they could less easily be kept under military discipline and could more easily extort from civilians. Except in the rare case of a determined and incorruptible general, these troops proved ineffective in action and dangerous to civilians. Frontier troops were often given land rather than pay; as they farmed for themselves, their direct costs diminished, but so did their effectiveness, and there was much less economic stimulus to the frontier economy. However, except for the provinces along the lower Rhine, the agricultural economy was generally doing well. The average nutritional state of the population in the West suffered a serious decline in the late second century; the population of North-Western Europe did not recover, though the Mediterranean regions did.\n\nThe numbers and effectiveness of the regular soldiers may have declined during the fourth century: payrolls were inflated so that pay could be diverted and exemptions from duty sold, their opportunities for personal extortion were multiplied by residence in cities, and their effectiveness was reduced by concentration on extortion instead of drill. However, , gross corruption, and occasional ineffectiveness were not new to the Roman army; there is no consensus whether its effectiveness significantly declined before 376. Ammianus Marcellinus, himself a professional soldier, repeats longstanding observations about the superiority of contemporary Roman armies being due to training and discipline, not to physical size or strength. Despite a possible decrease in its ability to assemble and supply large armies, Rome maintained an aggressive and potent stance against perceived threats almost to the end of the fourth century.\nJulian (r. 360–363) launched a drive against official corruption which allowed the tax demands in Gaul to be reduced to one-third of their previous amount, while all government requirements were still met. In civil legislation Julian was notable for his pro-pagan policies. All Christian sects were officially tolerated by Julian, persecution of heretics was forbidden, and non-Christian religions were encouraged. Some Christians continued to destroy temples, disrupt rituals, and break sacred images, seeking martyrdom and at times achieving it at the hands of non-Christian mobs or secular authorities; some pagans attacked the Christians who had previously been involved with the destruction of temples.\n\nJulian won victories against Germans who had invaded Gaul. He launched an expensive campaign against the Persians, which ended in defeat and his own death. He succeeded in marching to the Sassanid capital of Ctesiphon, but lacked adequate supplies for an assault. He burned his boats and supplies to show resolve in continuing operations, but the Sassanids began a war of attrition by burning crops. Finding himself cut off in enemy territory, he began a land retreat during which he was mortally wounded. His successor Jovian, acclaimed by a demoralized army, began his brief reign (363–364) trapped in Mesopotamia without supplies. To purchase safe passage home, he had to concede areas of northern Mesopotamia and Kurdistan, including the strategically important fortress of Nisibis, which had been Roman since before the Peace of Nisibis in 299.\n\nThe brothers Valens (r. 364–378) and Valentinian I (r. 364–375) energetically tackled the threats of barbarian attacks on all the Western frontiers and tried to alleviate the burdens of taxation, which had risen continuously over the previous forty years; Valens in the East reduced the tax demand by half in his fourth year.\n\nBoth were Christians and confiscated the temple lands that Julian had restored, but were generally tolerant of other beliefs. Valentinian in the West refused to intervene in religious controversy; in the East, Valens had to deal with Christians who did not conform to his ideas of orthodoxy, and persecution formed part of his response. The wealth of the church increased dramatically, immense resources both public and private being used for ecclesiastical construction and support of the religious life. Bishops in wealthy cities were thus able to offer vast patronage; Ammianus described some as \"enriched from the offerings of matrons, ride seated in carriages, wearing clothing chosen with care, and serve banquets so lavish that their entertainments outdo the tables of kings\". Edward Gibbon remarked that \"the soldiers' pay was lavished on the useless multitudes of both sexes who could only plead the merits of abstinence and chastity\", though there are no figures for the monks and nuns nor for their maintenance costs. Pagan rituals and buildings had not been cheap either; the move to Christianity may not have had significant effects on the public finances. Some public disorder also followed competition for prestigious posts; Pope Damasus I was installed in 366 after an election whose casualties included a hundred and thirty-seven corpses in the basilica of Sicininus.\n\nValentinian died of an apoplexy while shouting at envoys of Germanic leaders. His successors in the West were children, his sons Gratian (r. 375–383) and Valentinian II (r. 375–392). Gratian, \"alien from the art of government both by temperament and by training\" removed the Altar of Victory from the Senate House, and he rejected the pagan title of Pontifex Maximus.\n\nIn 376 the East faced an enormous barbarian influx across the Danube, mostly Goths who were refugees from the Huns. They were exploited by corrupt officials rather than effectively resettled, and they took up arms, joined by more Goths and by some Alans and Huns. Valens was in Asia with his main field army, preparing for an assault on the Persians, and redirecting the army and its logistic support would have required time. Gratian's armies were distracted by Germanic invasions across the Rhine. In 378 Valens attacked the invaders with the Eastern field army, perhaps some 20,000 men – possibly only 10% of the soldiers nominally available in the Danube provinces – and in the Battle of Adrianople, 9 August 378, he lost much of that army and his own life. All of the Balkan provinces were thus exposed to raiding, without effective response from the remaining garrisons who were \"more easily slaughtered than sheep\". Cities were able to hold their own walls against barbarians who had no siege equipment, and they generally remained intact although the countryside suffered.\n\nGratian appointed a new \"Augustus\", a proven general from Hispania called Theodosius. During the next four years, he partially re-established the Roman position in the East. These campaigns depended on effective imperial coordination and mutual trust – between 379 and 380 Theodosius controlled not only the Eastern empire, but also, by agreement, the diocese of Illyricum. Theodosius was unable to recruit enough Roman troops, relying on barbarian warbands without Roman military discipline or loyalty. In contrast, during the Cimbrian War, the Roman Republic, controlling a smaller area than the western Empire, had been able to reconstitute large regular armies of citizens after greater defeats than Adrianople, and it ended that war with the near-extermination of the invading barbarian supergroups, each recorded as having more than 100,000 warriors (with allowances for the usual exaggeration of numbers by ancient authors). Theodosius's partial failure may have stimulated Vegetius to offer advice on re-forming an effective army (the advice may date from the 390s or from the 430s):\n\nThe final Gothic settlement was acclaimed with relief, even the official panegyrist admitting that these Goths could not be expelled or exterminated, nor reduced to unfree status. Instead they were either recruited into the imperial forces, or settled in the devastated provinces along the south bank of the Danube, where the regular garrisons were never fully re-established. In some later accounts, and widely in recent work, this is regarded as a treaty settlement, the first time that barbarians were given a home within the Empire in which they retained their political and military cohesion. No formal treaty is recorded, nor details of whatever agreement was actually made; when the Goths are next mentioned in Roman records, they have different leaders and are soldiers of a sort. In 391 Alaric, a Gothic leader, rebelled against Roman control. Goths attacked the emperor himself, but within a year Alaric was accepted as a leader of Theodosius's Gothic troops and this rebellion was over.\n\nTheodosius's financial position must have been difficult, since he had to pay for expensive campaigning from a reduced tax base. The business of subduing barbarian warbands also demanded substantial gifts of precious metal. Nevertheless, he is represented as financially lavish, though personally frugal when on campaign. At least one extra levy provoked desperation and rioting in which the emperor's statues were destroyed. He was pious, a Nicene Christian heavily influenced by Ambrose, and implacable against heretics. In 392 he forbade even private honor to the gods, and pagan rituals such as the Olympic Games. He either ordered or connived at the widespread destruction of sacred buildings.\n\nTheodosius had to face a powerful usurper in the West; Magnus Maximus declared himself Emperor in 383, stripped troops from the outlying regions of Britannia (probably replacing some with federate chieftains and their war-bands) and invaded Gaul. His troops killed Gratian and he was accepted as Augustus in the Gallic provinces, where he was responsible for the first official executions of Christian heretics. To compensate the Western court for the loss of Gaul, Hispania, and Britannia, Theodosius ceded the diocese of Dacia and the diocese of Macedonia to their control. In 387 Maximus invaded Italy, forcing Valentinian II to flee to the East, where he accepted Nicene Christianity. Maximus boasted to Ambrose of the numbers of barbarians in his forces, and hordes of Goths, Huns, and Alans followed Theodosius. Maximus negotiated with Theodosius for acceptance as \"Augustus\" of the West, but Theodosius refused, gathered his armies, and counterattacked, winning the civil war in 388. There were heavy troop losses on both sides of the conflict. Later Welsh legend has Maximus's defeated troops resettled in Armorica, instead of returning to Britannia, and by 400, Armorica was controlled by Bagaudae rather than by imperial authority.\n\nTheodosius restored Valentinian II, still a very young man, as \"Augustus\" in the West. He also appointed Arbogast, a pagan general of Frankish origin, as Valentinian's commander-in-chief and guardian. Valentinian quarreled in public with Arbogast, failed to assert any authority, and died, either by suicide or by murder, at the age of 21. Arbogast and Theodosius failed to come to terms and Arbogast nominated an imperial official, Eugenius (r. 392–394), as emperor in the West. Eugenius made some modest attempts to win pagan support, and with Arbogast led a large army to fight another destructive civil war. They were defeated and killed at the Battle of the Frigidus, which was attended by further heavy losses especially among the Gothic federates of Theodosius. The north-eastern approaches to Italy were never effectively garrisoned again.\nTheodosius died a few months later in early 395, leaving his young sons Honorius (r. 395–423) and Arcadius (r. 395–408) as emperors. In the immediate aftermath of Theodosius's death, the \"magister militum\" Stilicho, married to Theodosius's niece, asserted himself in the West as the guardian of Honorius and commander of the remains of the defeated Western army. He also claimed control over Arcadius in Constantinople, but Rufinus, \"magister officiorum\" on the spot, had already established his own power there. Henceforward the Empire was not under the control of one man, until much of the West had been permanently lost. Neither Honorius nor Arcadius ever displayed any ability either as rulers or as generals, and both lived as the puppets of their courts. Stilicho tried to reunite the Eastern and Western courts under his personal control, but in doing so achieved only the continued hostility of all of Arcadius's successive supreme ministers.\n\nThe ineffectiveness of Roman military responses from Stilicho onwards has been described as \"shocking\", with little evidence of indigenous field forces or of adequate training, discipline, pay, or supply for the barbarians who formed most of the available troops. Local defence was occasionally effective, but was often associated with withdrawal from central control and taxes; in many areas, barbarians under Roman authority attacked culturally-Roman \"Bagaudae\".\n\nCorruption, in this context the diversion of public finance from the needs of the army, may have contributed greatly to the Fall. The rich senatorial aristocrats in Rome itself became increasingly influential during the fifth century; they supported armed strength in theory, but did not wish to pay for it or to offer their own workers as army recruits. They did, however, pass large amounts of money to the Christian Church. At a local level, from the early fourth century, the town councils lost their property and their power, which often became concentrated in the hands of a few local despots beyond the reach of the law.\n\nThe fifth-century Western emperors, with brief exceptions, were individuals incapable of ruling effectively or even of controlling their own courts. Those exceptions were responsible for brief, but remarkable resurgences of Roman power.\n\nWithout an authoritative ruler, the Balkan provinces fell rapidly into disorder. Alaric was disappointed in his hopes for promotion to \"magister militum\" after the battle of the Frigidus. He again led Gothic tribesmen in arms and established himself as an independent power, burning the countryside as far as the walls of Constantinople. Alaric's ambitions for long-term Roman office were never quite acceptable to the Roman imperial courts, and his men could never settle long enough to farm in any one area. They showed no inclination to leave the Empire and face the Huns from whom they had fled in 376; indeed the Huns were still stirring up further migrations which often ended by attacking Rome in turn. Alaric's group was never destroyed nor expelled from the Empire, nor acculturated under effective Roman domination.\n\nStilicho moved with his remaining mobile forces into Greece, a clear threat to Rufinus' control of the Eastern empire. The bulk of Rufinus' forces were occupied with Hunnic incursions in Asia Minor and Syria, leaving Thrace undefended. He opted to enlist Alaric and his men, and sent them to Thessaly to stave off Stilicho's threat, which they did. No battle took place. Stilicho was forced to send some of his Eastern forces home. They went to Constantinople under the command of one Gainas, a Goth with a large Gothic following. On arrival, Gainas murdered Rufinus, and was appointed \"magister militum\" for Thrace by Eutropius, the new supreme minister and the only eunuch consul of Rome, who controlled Arcadius \"as if he were a sheep\". Stilicho obtained a few more troops from the German frontier and continued to campaign ineffectively against the Eastern empire; again he was successfully opposed by Alaric and his men. During the next year, 397, Eutropius personally led his troops to victory over some Huns who were marauding in Asia Minor. With his position thus strengthened he declared Stilicho a public enemy, and he established Alaric as \"magister militum\" per Illyricum. A poem by Synesius advises the emperor to display manliness and remove a \"skin-clad savage\" (probably Alaric) from the councils of power and his barbarians from the Roman army. We do not know if Arcadius ever became aware of the existence of this advice, but it had no recorded effect. Synesius, from a province suffering the widespread ravages of a few poor but greedy barbarians, also complained of \"the peacetime war, one almost worse than the barbarian war and arising from military indiscipline and the officer's greed.\"\n\nThe \"magister militum\" in the Diocese of Africa declared for the East and stopped the supply of grain to Rome. Italy had not fed itself for centuries and could not do so now. In 398, Stilicho sent his last reserves, a few thousand men, to re-take the Diocese of Africa, and he strengthened his position further when he married his daughter Maria to Honorius. Throughout this period Stilicho, and all other generals, were desperately short of recruits and supplies for them. In 400, Stilicho was charged to press into service any \"laetus, Alamannus, Sarmatian, vagrant, son of a veteran\" or any other person liable to serve. He had reached the bottom of his recruitment pool. Though personally not corrupt, he was very active in confiscating assets; the financial and administrative machine was not producing enough support for the army.\nIn 399, Tribigild's rebellion in Asia Minor allowed Gainas to accumulate a significant army (mostly Goths), become supreme in the Eastern court, and execute Eutropius. He now felt that he could dispense with Alaric's services and he nominally transferred Alaric's province to the West. This administrative change removed Alaric's Roman rank and his entitlement to legal provisioning for his men, leaving his army – the only significant force in the ravaged Balkans – as a problem for Stilicho. In 400, the citizens of Constantinople revolted against Gainas and massacred as many of his people, soldiers and their families, as they could catch. Some Goths at least built rafts and tried to cross the strip of sea that separates Asia from Europe; the Roman navy slaughtered them. By the beginning of 401, Gainas' head rode a pike through Constantinople while another Gothic general became consul. Meanwhile, groups of Huns started a series of attacks across the Danube, and the Isaurians marauded far and wide in Anatolia.\n\nIn 401 Stilicho travelled over the Alps to Raetia, to scrape up further troops. He left the Rhine defended only by the \"dread\" of Roman retaliation, rather than by adequate forces able to take the field. Early in spring, Alaric, probably desperate, invaded Italy, and he drove Honorius westward from Mediolanum, besieging him in Hasta Pompeia in Liguria. Stilicho returned as soon as the passes had cleared, meeting Alaric in two battles (near Pollentia and Verona) without decisive results. The Goths, weakened, were allowed to retreat back to Illyricum where the Western court again gave Alaric office, though only as comes and only over Dalmatia and Pannonia Secunda rather than the whole of Illyricum. Stilicho probably supposed that this pact would allow him to put Italian government into order and recruit fresh troops. He may also have planned with Alaric's help to relaunch his attempts to gain control over the Eastern court.\n\nHowever, in 405, Stilicho was distracted by a fresh invasion of Northern Italy. Another group of Goths fleeing the Huns, led by one Radagaisus, devastated the north of Italy for six months before Stilicho could muster enough forces to take the field against them. Stilicho recalled troops from Britannia and the depth of the crisis was shown when he urged all Roman soldiers to allow their personal slaves to fight beside them. His forces, including Hun and Alan auxiliaries, may in the end have totalled rather less than 15,000 men. Radagaisus was defeated and executed. 12,000 prisoners from the defeated horde were drafted into Stilicho's service. Stilicho continued negotiations with Alaric; Flavius Aetius, son of one of Stilicho's major supporters, was sent as a hostage to Alaric in 405. In 406 Stilicho, hearing of new invaders and rebels who had appeared in the northern provinces, insisted on making peace with Alaric, probably on the basis that Alaric would prepare to move either against the Eastern court or against the rebels in Gaul. The Senate deeply resented peace with Alaric; in 407, when Alaric marched into Noricum and demanded a large payment for his expensive efforts in Stilicho's interests, the senate, \"inspired by the courage, rather than the wisdom, of their predecessors,\" preferred war. One senator famously declaimed \"Non est ista pax, sed pactio servitutis\" (\"This is not peace, but a pact of servitude\"). Stilicho paid Alaric four thousand pounds of gold nevertheless. Stilicho sent Sarus, a Gothic general, over the Alps to face the usurper Constantine III, but he lost and barely escaped, having to leave his baggage to the bandits who now infested the Alpine passes.\n\nThe empress Maria, daughter of Stilicho, died in 407 or early 408 and her sister Aemilia Materna Thermantia married Honorius. In the East, Arcadius died on 1 May 408 and was replaced by his son Theodosius II; Stilicho seems to have planned to march to Constantinople, and to install there a regime loyal to himself. He may also have intended to give Alaric a senior official position and send him against the rebels in Gaul. Before he could do so, while he was away at Ticinum at the head of a small detachment, a bloody coup against his supporters took place at Honorius's court. It was led by Stilicho's own creature, one Olympius.\n\nStilicho had news of the coup at Bononia (where he was probably waiting for Alaric). His small escort of barbarians was led by Sarus, who rebelled. His Gothic troops massacred the Hun contingent in their sleep, and then withdrew towards the cities in which their families were billeted. Stilicho ordered that these troops should not be admitted, but, now without an army, he was forced to flee for sanctuary, promised his life, and killed.\n\nAlaric was again declared an enemy of the Emperor. The conspiracy then massacred the families of the federate troops (as presumed supporters of Stilicho, although they had probably rebelled against him), and the troops defected \"en masse\" to Alaric. The conspirators seem to have let their main army disintegrate, and had no policy except hunting down supporters of Stilicho. Italy was left without effective indigenous defence forces thereafter. Heraclianus, a co-conspirator of Olympius, became governor of the Diocese of Africa, where he controlled the source of most of Italy's grain, and he supplied food only in the interests of Honorius's regime.\n\nAs a declared 'enemy of the Emperor', Alaric was denied the legitimacy that he needed to collect taxes and hold cities without large garrisons, which he could not afford to detach. He again offered to move his men, this time to Pannonia, in exchange for a modest sum of money and the modest title of Comes, but he was refused as a supporter of Stilicho. He moved into Italy, probably using the route and supplies arranged for him by Stilicho, bypassing the imperial court in Ravenna which was protected by widespread marshland and had a port, and he menaced the city of Rome itself. In 407, there was no equivalent of the determined response to the catastrophic Battle of Cannae in 216 BCE, when the entire Roman population, even slaves, had been mobilized to resist the enemy.\n\nAlaric's military operations centred on the port of Rome, through which Rome's grain supply had to pass. Alaric's first siege of Rome in 408 caused dreadful famine within the walls. It was ended by a payment that, though large, was less than one of the richest senators could have produced. The super-rich aristocrats made little contribution; pagan temples were stripped of ornaments to make up the total. With promises of freedom, Alaric also recruited many of the slaves in Rome.\n\nAlaric withdrew to Tuscany and recruited more slaves. Ataulf, a Goth nominally in Roman service and brother-in-law to Alaric, marched through Italy to join Alaric despite taking casualties from a small force of Hunnic mercenaries led by Olympius. Sarus was an enemy of Ataulf, and on Ataulf's arrival went back into imperial service.\n\nIn 409 Olympius fell to further intrigue, having his ears cut off before he was beaten to death. Alaric tried again to negotiate with Honorius, but his demands (now even more moderate, only frontier land and food) were inflated by the messenger and Honorius responded with insults, which were reported \"verbatim\" to Alaric. He broke off negotiations and the standoff continued. Honorius's court made overtures to the usurper Constantine III in Gaul and arranged to bring Hunnic forces into Italy, Alaric ravaged Italy outside the fortified cities (which he could not garrison), and the Romans refused open battle (for which they had inadequate forces). Late in the year Alaric sent bishops to express his readiness to leave Italy if Honorius would only grant his people a supply of grain. Honorius, sensing weakness, flatly refused.\n\nAlaric moved to Rome and captured Galla Placidia, sister of Honorius. The Senate in Rome, despite its loathing for Alaric, was now desperate enough to give him almost anything he wanted. They had no food to offer, but they tried to give him imperial legitimacy; with the Senate's acquiescence, he elevated Priscus Attalus as his puppet emperor, and he marched on Ravenna. Honorius was planning to flee to Constantinople when a reinforcing army of 4,000 soldiers from the East disembarked in Ravenna. These garrisoned the walls and Honorius held on. He had Constantine's principal court supporter executed and Constantine abandoned plans to march to Honorius's defence. Attalus failed to establish his control over the Diocese of Africa, and no grain arrived in Rome where the famine became even more frightful. Jerome reports cannibalism within the walls. Attalus brought Alaric no real advantage, failing also to come to any useful agreement with Honorius (who was offered mutilation, humiliation, and exile). Indeed, Attalus's claim was a marker of threat to Honorius, and Alaric dethroned him after a few months.\n\nIn 410 Alaric took Rome by starvation, sacked it for three days (there was relatively little destruction, and in some Christian holy places Alaric's men even refrained from wanton wrecking and rape), and invited its remaining barbarian slaves to join him, which many did. The city of Rome was the seat of the richest senatorial noble families and the centre of their cultural patronage; to pagans it was the sacred origin of the empire, and to Christians the seat of the heir of Saint Peter, Pope Innocent I, the most authoritative bishop of the West. Rome had not fallen to an enemy since the Battle of the Allia over eight centuries before. Refugees spread the news and their stories throughout the Empire, and the meaning of the fall was debated with religious fervour. Both Christians and pagans wrote embittered tracts, blaming paganism or Christianity respectively for the loss of Rome's supernatural protection, and blaming Stilicho's earthly failures in either case. Some Christian responses anticipated the imminence of Judgement Day. Augustine in his book \"City of God\" ultimately rejected the pagan and Christian idea that religion should have worldly benefits; he developed the doctrine that the City of God in heaven, undamaged by mundane disasters, was the true objective of Christians. More practically, Honorius was briefly persuaded to set aside the laws forbidding pagans to be military officers, so that one Generidus could re-establish Roman control in Dalmatia. Generidus did this with unusual effectiveness; his techniques were remarkable for this period, in that they included training his troops, disciplining them, and giving them appropriate supplies even if he had to use his own money. The penal laws were reinstated no later than 25 August 410 and the overall trend of repression of paganism continued.\nProcopius mentions a story in which Honorius, on hearing the news that Rome had \"perished\", was shocked, thinking the news was in reference to his favorite chicken he had named \"Roma\". On hearing that Rome itself had fallen he breathed a sigh of relief:\n\nAlaric then moved south, intending to sail to Africa, but his ships were wrecked in a storm and he shortly died of fever. His successor Ataulf, still regarded as an usurper and given only occasional and short-term grants of supplies, moved north into the turmoil of Gaul, where there was some prospect of food. His supergroup of barbarians are called the Visigoths in modern works: they may now have been developing their own sense of identity.\n\nThe Crossing of the Rhine in 405/6 brought unmanageable numbers of German and Alan barbarians (perhaps some 30,000 warriors, 100,000 people) into Gaul. They may have been trying to get away from the Huns, who about this time advanced to occupy the Great Hungarian Plain. For the next few years these barbarian tribes wandered in search of food and employment, while Roman forces fought each other in the name of Honorius and a number of competing claimants to the imperial throne.\n\nThe remaining troops in Britannia elevated a succession of imperial usurpers. The last, Constantine III, raised an army from the remaining troops in Britannia, invaded Gaul and defeated forces loyal to Honorius led by Sarus. Constantine's power reached its peak in 409 when he controlled Gaul and beyond, he was joint consul with Honorius and his magister militum Gerontius defeated the last Roman force to try to hold the borders of Hispania. It was led by relatives of Honorius; Constantine executed them. Gerontius went to Hispania where he may have settled the Sueves and the Asding Vandals. Gerontius then fell out with his master and elevated one Maximus as his own puppet emperor. He defeated Constantine and was besieging him in Arelate when Honorius's general Constantius arrived from Italy with an army (possibly, mainly of Hun mercenaries). Gerontius's troops deserted him and he committed suicide. Constantius continued the siege, defeating a relieving army. Constantine surrendered in 411 with a promise that his life would be spared, and was executed.\n\nIn 410, the Roman civitates of Britannia rebelled against Constantine and evicted his officials. They asked for help from Honorius, who replied that they should look to their own defence. While the British may have regarded themselves as Roman for several generations, and British armies may at times have fought in Gaul, no central Roman government is known to have appointed officials in Britannia thereafter.\n\nIn 411, Jovinus rebelled and took over Constantine's remaining troops on the Rhine. He relied on the support of Burgundians and Alans to whom he offered supplies and land. In 413 Jovinus also recruited Sarus; Ataulf destroyed their regime in the name of Honorius and both Jovinus and Sarus were executed. The Burgundians were settled on the left bank of the Rhine. Ataulf then operated in the south of Gaul, sometimes with short-term supplies from the Romans. All usurpers had been defeated, but large barbarian groups remained un-subdued in both Gaul and Hispania. The imperial government was quick to\nrestore the Rhine frontier. The invading tribes of 407 had passed into Spain at the end of 409 but the Visigoths had exited Italy at the beginning of 412 and settled themselves in Narbo.\n\nHeraclianus was still in command in the diocese of Africa, the last of the clique that overthrew Stilicho to retain power. In 413 he led an invasion of Italy, lost to a subordinate of Constantius, and fled back to Africa where he was murdered by Constantius's agents.\n\nIn January 414 Roman naval forces blockaded Ataulf in Narbo, where he married Galla Placidia. The choir at the wedding included Attalus, a puppet emperor without revenues or soldiers. Ataulf famously declared that he had abandoned his intention to set up a Gothic empire because of the irredeemable barbarity of his followers, and instead he sought to restore the Roman Empire. He handed Attalus over to Honorius's regime for mutilation, humiliation, and exile, and abandoned Attalus's supporters. (One of them, Paulinus Pellaeus, recorded that the Goths considered themselves merciful for allowing him and his household to leave destitute, but alive, without being raped.) Ataulf moved out of Gaul, to Barcelona. There his infant son by Galla Placidia was buried, and there Ataulf was assassinated by one of his household retainers, possibly a former follower of Sarus. His ultimate successor Wallia had no agreement with the Romans; his people had to plunder in Hispania for food.\n\nIn 416 Wallia reached agreement with Constantius; he sent Galla Placidia back to Honorius and received provisions, six hundred thousand \"modii\" of wheat. From 416 to 418, Wallia's Goths campaigned in Hispania on Constantius's behalf, exterminating the Siling Vandals in Baetica and reducing the Alans to the point where the survivors sought the protection of the king of the Asding Vandals. (After retrenchment they formed another barbarian supergroup, but for the moment they were reduced in numbers and effectively cowed.) In 418, by agreement with Constantius, Wallia's Goths accepted land to farm in Aquitania. Constantius also reinstituted an annual council of the southern Gallic provinces, to meet at Arelate. Although Constantius rebuilt the western field army to some extent – the Notitia Dignitatum gives a list of the units of the western field army at this time—he did so only by replacing half of its units (vanished in the wars since 395) by re-graded barbarians, and by garrison troops removed from the frontier.\n\nConstantius had married the princess Galla Placidia (despite her protests) in 417. The couple soon had two children, Honoria and Valentinian III, and Constantius was elevated to the position of Augustus in 420. This earned him the hostility of the Eastern court, which had not agreed to his elevation. Nevertheless, Constantius had achieved an unassailable position at the Western court, in the imperial family, and as the able commander-in-chief of a partially restored army.\n\nThis settlement represented a real success for the Empire—a poem by Rutilius Namatianus celebrates his voyage back to Gaul in 417 and his confidence in a restoration of prosperity. But it marked huge losses of territory and of revenue; Rutilius travelled by ship past the ruined bridges and countryside of Tuscany, and in the west the River Loire had become the effective northern boundary of Roman Gaul. In the east of Gaul the Franks controlled large areas; the effective line of Roman control until 455 ran from north of Cologne (lost to the Ripuarian Franks in 459) to Boulogne. The Italian areas which had been compelled to support the Goths had most of their taxes remitted for several years. Even in southern Gaul and Hispania large barbarian groups remained, with thousands of warriors, in their own non-Roman military and social systems. Some occasionally acknowledged a degree of Roman political control, but without the local application of Roman leadership and military power they and their individual subgroups pursued their own interests.\n\nConstantius died in 421, after only seven months as Augustus. He had been careful to make sure that there was no successor in waiting, and his own children were far too young to take his place. Honorius was unable to control his own court and the death of Constantius initiated more than ten years of instability. Initially Galla Placidia sought Honorius's favour in the hope that her son might ultimately inherit. Other court interests managed to defeat her, and she fled with her children to the Eastern court in 422. Honorius himself died, shortly before his thirty-ninth birthday, in 423. After some months of intrigue, the patrician Castinus installed Joannes as Western Emperor, but the Eastern Roman government proclaimed the child Valentinian III instead, his mother Galla Placidia acting as regent during his minority. Joannes had few troops of his own. He sent Aetius to raise help from the Huns. An Eastern army landed in Italy, captured Joannes, cut his hand off, abused him in public, and killed him with most of his senior officials. Aetius returned, three days after Joannes' death, at the head of a substantial Hunnic army which made him the most powerful general in Italy. After some fighting, Placidia and Aetius came to an agreement; the Huns were paid off and sent home, while Aetius received the position of \"magister militum\".\n\nGalla Placidia, as Augusta, mother of the Emperor, and his guardian until 437, could maintain a dominant position in court, but women in Ancient Rome did not exercise military power and she could not herself become a general. She tried for some years to avoid reliance on a single dominant military figure, maintaining a balance of power between her three senior officers, Aetius (\"magister militum\" in Gaul), Count Boniface governor in the Diocese of Africa, and Flavius Felix \"magister militum praesentalis\" in Italy. Meanwhile, the Empire deteriorated seriously. Apart from the losses in the Diocese of Africa, Hispania was slipping out of central control and into the hands of local rulers and Suevic bandits. In Gaul the Rhine frontier had collapsed, the Visigoths in Aquitaine may have launched further attacks on Narbo and Arelate, and the Franks, increasingly powerful although disunited, were the major power in the north-east. Aremorica was controlled by Bagaudae, local leaders not under the authority of the Empire. Aetius at least campaigned vigorously and mostly victoriously, defeating aggressive Visigoths, Franks, fresh Germanic invaders, Bagaudae in Aremorica, and a rebellion in Noricum. Not for the first time in Rome's history, a triumvirate of mutually distrustful rulers proved unstable. In 427 Felix tried to recall Boniface from Africa; he refused, and overcame Felix's invading force. Boniface probably recruited some Vandal troops among others.\n\nIn 428 the Vandals and Alans were united under the able, ferocious, and long-lived king Genseric; he moved his entire people to Tarifa near Gibraltar, divided them into 80 groups nominally of 1,000 people, (perhaps 20,000 warriors in total), and crossed from Hispania to Mauretania without opposition. (The Straits of Gibraltar were not an important thoroughfare at the time, and there were no significant fortifications nor military presence at this end of the Mediterranean.) They spent a year moving slowly to Numidia, defeating Boniface. He returned to Italy where Aetius had recently had Felix executed. Boniface was promoted to \"magister militum\" and earned the enmity of Aetius, who may have been absent in Gaul at the time. In 432 the two met at the Battle of Ravenna which left Aetius's forces defeated and Boniface mortally wounded. Aetius temporarily retired to his estates, but after an attempt to murder him he raised another Hunnic army (probably by conceding parts of Pannonia to them) and in 433 he returned to Italy, overcoming all rivals. He never threatened to become an Augustus himself and thus maintained the support of the Eastern court, where Valentinian's cousin Theodosius II reigned until 450.\n\nAetius campaigned vigorously, somewhat stabilizing the situation in Gaul and in Hispania. He relied heavily on his forces of Huns. With a ferocity celebrated centuries later in the Nibelungenlied, the Huns slaughtered many Burgundians on the middle Rhine, re-establishing the survivors as Roman allies, the first Kingdom of the Burgundians. This may have returned some sort of Roman authority to Trier. Eastern troops reinforced Carthage, temporarily halting the Vandals, who in 435 agreed to limit themselves to Numidia and leave the most fertile parts of North Africa in peace. Aetius concentrated his limited military resources to defeat the Visigoths again, and his diplomacy restored a degree of order to Hispania. However, his general Litorius was badly defeated by the Visigoths at Toulouse, and a new Suevic king, Rechiar, began vigorous assaults on what remained of Roman Hispania. At one point Rechiar even allied with Bagaudae. These were Romans not under imperial control; some of their reasons for rebellion may be indicated by the remarks of a Roman captive under Attila who was happy in his lot, giving a lively account of the vices of a declining empire, of which he had so long been the victim; the cruel absurdity of the Roman princes, unable to protect their subjects against the public enemy, unwilling to trust them with arms for their own defence; the intolerable weight of taxes, rendered still more oppressive by the intricate or arbitrary modes of collection; the obscurity of numerous and contradictory laws; the tedious and expensive forms of judicial proceedings; the partial administration of justice; and the universal corruption, which increased the influence of the rich, and aggravated the misfortunes of the poor.\n\nA religious polemic of about this time complains bitterly of the oppression and extortion suffered by all but the richest Romans. Many wished to flee to the Bagaudae or even to foul-smelling barbarians. Although these men differ in customs and language from those with whom they have taken refuge, and are unaccustomed too, if I may say so, to the nauseous odor of the bodies and clothing of the barbarians, yet they prefer the strange life they find there to the injustice rife among the Romans. So you find men passing over everywhere, now to the Goths, now to the Bagaudae, or whatever other barbarians have established their power anywhere ... We call those men rebels and utterly abandoned, whom we ourselves have forced into crime. For by what other causes were they made Bagaudae save by our unjust acts, the wicked decisions of the magistrates, the proscription and extortion of those who have turned the public exactions to the increase of their private fortunes and made the tax indictions their opportunity for plunder?\n\nFrom Britannia comes an indication of the prosperity which freedom from taxes could bring. No sooner were the ravages of the enemy checked, than the island was deluged with a most extraordinary plenty of all things, greater than was before known, and with it grew up every kind of luxury and licentiousness.\n\nNevertheless, effective imperial protection from barbarian ravages was eagerly sought. About this time authorities in Britannia asked Aetius for help: \"To Aetius, now consul for the third time: the groans of the Britons.\" And again a little further, thus: – \"The barbarians drive us to the sea; the sea throws us back on the barbarians: thus two modes of death await us, we are either slain or drowned.\" The Romans, however, could not assist them ...\n\nThe Visigoths passed another waymark on their journey to full independence; they made their own foreign policy, sending princesses to make (rather unsuccessful) marriage alliances with Rechiar of the Sueves and with Huneric, son of the Vandal king Genseric.\n\nIn 439 the Vandals moved eastward (temporarily abandoning Numidia) and captured Carthage, where they established an independent state with a powerful navy. This brought immediate financial crisis to the Western Empire; the diocese of Africa was prosperous, normally required few troops to keep it secure, contributed large tax revenues, and exported wheat to feed Rome and many other areas. Roman troops assembled in Sicily, but the planned counter-attack never happened. Huns attacked the Eastern empire, and the troops, which had been sent against Genseric, were hastily recalled from Sicily; the garrisons, on the side of Persia, were exhausted; and a military force was collected in Europe, formidable by their arms and numbers, if the generals had understood the science of command, and the soldiers the duty of obedience. The armies of the Eastern empire were vanquished in three successive engagements ... From the Hellespont to Thermopylae, and the suburbs of Constantinople, [Attila] ravaged, without resistance, and without mercy, the provinces of Thrace and Macedonia. Attila's invasions of the East were stopped by the walls of Constantinople, and at this heavily fortified Eastern end of the Mediterranean there were no significant barbarian invasions across the sea into the rich southerly areas of Anatolia, the Levant, and Egypt. Despite internal and external threats, and more religious discord than the West, these provinces remained prosperous contributors to tax revenue; despite the ravages of Attila's armies and the extortions of his peace treaties, tax revenue generally continued to be adequate for the essential state functions of the Eastern empire.\n\nGenseric settled his Vandals as landowners and in 442 was able to negotiate very favourable peace terms with the Western court. He kept his latest gains and his eldest son Huneric was honoured by betrothal to Princess Eudocia, who carried the legitimacy of the Theodosian dynasty. Huneric's Gothic wife was suspected of trying to poison her father-in-law Genseric; he sent her home without her nose or ears, and his Gothic alliance came to an early end. The Romans regained Numidia, and Rome again received a grain supply from Africa.\n\nThe losses of income from the Diocese of Africa were equivalent to the costs of nearly 40,000 infantry or over 20,000 cavalry. The imperial regime had to increase taxes. Despite admitting that the peasantry could pay no more, and that a sufficient army could not be raised, the imperial regime protected the interests of landowners displaced from Africa and allowed wealthy individuals to avoid taxes.\n\nIn 444, the Huns were united under Attila. His subjects included Huns, outnumbered several times over by other groups, predominantly Germanic. His power rested partly on his continued ability to reward his favoured followers with precious metals, and he continued to attack the Eastern Empire until 450, by when he had extracted vast sums of money and many other concessions.\n\nAttila may not have needed any excuse to turn West, but he received one in the form of a plea for help from Honoria, the Emperor's sister, who was being forced into a marriage which she resented. Attila claimed Honoria as his wife and half of the Western Empire's territory as his dowry. Faced with refusal, he invaded Gaul in 451 with a huge army. In the bloody battle of the Catalaunian Plains the invasion was stopped by the combined forces of the barbarians within the Western empire, coordinated by Aetius and supported by what troops he could muster. The next year, Attila invaded Italy and proceeded to march upon Rome, but an outbreak of disease in his army, lack of supplies, reports that Eastern Roman troops were attacking his noncombatant population in Pannonia, and, possibly, Pope Leo's plea for peace induced him to halt this campaign. Attila unexpectedly died a year later (453) and his empire crumbled as his followers fought for power. The life of Severinus of Noricum gives glimpses of the general insecurity, and ultimate retreat of the Romans on the Upper Danube, in the aftermath of Attila's death. The Romans were without adequate forces; the barbarians inflicted haphazard extortion, murder, kidnap, and plunder on the Romans and on each other. So long as the Roman dominion lasted, soldiers were maintained in many towns at the public expense to guard the boundary wall. When this custom ceased, the squadrons of soldiers and the boundary wall were blotted out together. The troop at Batavis, however, held out. Some soldiers of this troop had gone to Italy to fetch the final pay to their comrades, and no one knew that the barbarians had slain them on the way.\n\nIn 454 Aetius was personally stabbed to death by Valentinian, who was himself murdered by the dead general's supporters a year later. (Valentinian) thought he had slain his master; he found that he had slain his protector: and he fell a helpless victim to the first conspiracy which was hatched against his throne. A rich senatorial aristocrat, Petronius Maximus, who had encouraged both murders, then seized the throne. He broke the engagement between Huneric, prince of the Vandals, and Princess Eudocia, and had time to send Avitus to ask for the help of the Visigoths in Gaul before the Vandals sailed to Italy. Petronius was unable to muster any effective response and was killed by a mob as he tried to flee the city. The Vandals entered Rome, and plundered it for two weeks. Despite the shortage of money for the defence of the state, considerable private wealth had accumulated since the previous sack in 410. The Vandals sailed away with large amounts of treasure and also with the Princess Eudocia, who became the wife of one Vandal king and the mother of another.\n\nThe Vandals conquered Sicily, and their fleet became a constant danger to Roman sea trade and to the coasts and islands of the western Mediterranean.\n\nAvitus, at the Visigothic court in Burdigala, declared himself Emperor. He moved on Rome with Visigothic support which gained his acceptance by Majorian and Ricimer, commanders of the remaining army of Italy. This was the first time that a barbarian kingdom had played a key role in the imperial succession. Avitus's son-in-law Sidonius wrote propaganda to present the Visigothic king Theoderic II as a reasonable man with whom a Roman regime could do business. Theoderic's payoff included precious metal from stripping the remaining public ornaments of Italy, and an unsupervised campaign in Hispania. There he not only defeated the Sueves, executing his brother-in-law Rechiar, but he also plundered Roman cities. The Burgundians expanded their kingdom in the Rhone valley and the Vandals took the remains of the Diocese of Africa. In 456 the Visigothic army was too heavily engaged in Hispania to be an effective threat to Italy, and Ricimer had just destroyed a pirate fleet of sixty Vandal ships; Majorian and Ricimer marched against Avitus and defeated him near Placentia. He was forced to become Bishop of Placentia, and died (possibly murdered) a few weeks later.\n\nMajorian and Ricimer were now in control of Italy. Ricimer was the son of a Suevic king and his mother was the daughter of a Gothic one, so he could not aspire to an imperial throne. After some months, allowing for negotiation with the new emperor of Constantinople and the defeat of 900 Alamannic invaders of Italy by one of his subordinates, Majorian was acclaimed as Augustus. Majorian is described by Gibbon as \"a great and heroic character\". He rebuilt the army and navy of Italy with vigour and set about recovering the remaining Gallic provinces, which had not recognized his elevation. He defeated the Visigoths at the Battle of Arelate, reducing them to federate status and obliging them to give up their claims in Hispania; he moved on to subdue the Burgundians, the Gallo-Romans around Lugdunum (who were granted tax concessions and whose senior officials were appointed from their own ranks) and the Suevi and Bagaudae in Hispania. Marcellinus, magister militum in Dalmatia and the pagan general of a well-equipped army, acknowledged him as emperor and recovered Sicily from the Vandals. Aegidius also acknowledged Majorian and took effective charge of northern Gaul. (Aegidius may also have used the title \"King of the Franks\".) Abuses in tax collection were reformed and the city councils were strengthened, both actions necessary to rebuild the strength of the Empire but disadvantageous to the richest aristocrats. Majorian prepared a fleet at Carthago Nova for the essential reconquest of the Diocese of Africa.\n\nThe fleet was burned by traitors, and Majorian made peace with the Vandals and returned to Italy. Here Ricimer met him, arrested him, and executed him five days later. Marcellinus in Dalmatia, and Aegidius around Soissons in northern Gaul, rejected both Ricimer and his puppets and maintained some version of Roman rule in their areas. Ricimer later ceded Narbo and its hinterland to the Visigoths for their help against Aegidius; this made it impossible for Roman armies to march from Italy to Hispania. Ricimer was then the effective ruler of Italy (but little else) for several years. From 461 to 465 the pious Italian aristocrat Libius Severus reigned. There is no record of anything significant that he even tried to achieve, he was never acknowledged by the East whose help Ricimer needed, and he died conveniently in 465.\n\nAfter two years without a Western Emperor, the Eastern court nominated Anthemius, a successful general who had a strong claim on the Eastern throne. He arrived in Italy with an army, supported by Marcellinus and his fleet; he married his daughter to Ricimer, and he was proclaimed Augustus in 467. In 468, at vast expense, the Eastern empire assembled an enormous force to help the West retake the Diocese of Africa. Marcellinus rapidly drove the Vandals from Sardinia and Sicily, and a land invasion evicted them from Tripolitania. The commander in chief with the main force defeated a Vandal fleet near Sicily and landed at Cape Bon. Here Genseric offered to surrender, if he could have a five-day truce to prepare the process. He used the respite to prepare a full-scale attack preceded by fireships, which destroyed most of the Roman fleet and killed many of its soldiers. The Vandals were confirmed in their possession of the Diocese of Africa and they retook Sardinia and Sicily. Marcellinus was murdered, possibly on orders from Ricimer. The Praetorian prefect of Gaul, Arvandus, tried to persuade the new king of the Visigoths to rebel, on the grounds that Roman power in Gaul was finished anyway, but he refused.\n\nAnthemius was still in command of an army in Italy. Additionally, in northern Gaul, a British army led by one Riothamus, operated in imperial interests. Anthemius sent his son over the Alps, with an army, to request that the Visigoths return southern Gaul to Roman control. This would have allowed the Empire land access to Hispania again. The Visigoths refused, defeated the forces of both Riothamus and Anthemius, and with the Burgundians took over almost all of the remaining imperial territory in southern Gaul.\n\nRicimer then quarreled with Anthemius, and besieged him in Rome, which surrendered in July 472 after more months of starvation. Anthemius was captured and executed (on Ricimer's orders) by the Burgundian prince Gundobad. In August Ricimer died of a pulmonary haemorrhage. Olybrius, his new emperor, named Gundobad as his patrician, then died himself shortly thereafter.\n\nAfter the death of Olybrius there was a further interregnum until March 473, when Gundobad proclaimed Glycerius emperor. He may have made some attempt to intervene in Gaul; if so, it was unsuccessful. In 474 Julius Nepos, nephew and successor of the general Marcellinus, arrived in Rome with soldiers and authority from the eastern emperor Leo I. Gundobad had already left to contest the Burgundian throne in Gaul and Glycerius gave up without a fight, retiring to become bishop of Salona in Dalmatia.\n\nIn 475, Orestes, a former secretary of Attila, drove Julius Nepos out of Ravenna and proclaimed his own son Flavius Momyllus Romulus Augustus (Romulus Augustulus) to be Emperor, on October 31. His surname 'Augustus' was given the diminutive form 'Augustulus' by rivals because he was still a minor, and he was never recognized outside of Italy as a legitimate ruler.\n\nIn 476, Orestes refused to grant Odoacer and the Heruli federated status, prompting an invasion. Orestes fled to the city of Pavia on August 23, 476, where the city's bishop gave him sanctuary. Orestes was soon forced to flee Pavia when Odoacer's army broke through the city walls and ravaged the city. Odoacer's army chased Orestes to Piacenza, where they captured and executed him on August 28, 476.\n\nOn September 4, 476, Odoacer forced then 16-year-old Romulus Augustulus, whom his father Orestes had proclaimed to be Rome's Emperor, to abdicate. After deposing Romulus, Odoacer did not execute him. The \"Anonymus Valesianus\" wrote that Odoacer, \"taking pity on his youth\", spared Romulus' life and granted him an annual pension of 6,000 solidi before sending him to live with relatives in Campania. Odoacer then installed himself as ruler over Italy, and sent the Imperial insignia to Constantinople.\n\nBy convention, the Western Roman Empire is deemed to have ended on 4 September 476, when Odoacer deposed Romulus Augustulus and proclaimed himself ruler of Italy, but this convention is subject to many qualifications. In Roman constitutional theory, the Empire was still simply united under one emperor, implying no abandonment of territorial claims. In areas where the convulsions of the dying Empire had made organized self-defence legitimate, rump states continued under some form of Roman rule after 476. Julius Nepos still claimed to be Emperor of the West and controlled Dalmatia until his murder in 480. Syagrius son of Aegidius ruled the Domain of Soissons until his murder in 487. The indigenous inhabitants of Mauretania developed kingdoms of their own, independent of the Vandals, with strong Roman traits. They again sought Imperial recognition with the reconquests of Justinian I, and they put up effective resistance to the Muslim conquest of the Maghreb. While the civitates of Britannia sank into a level of material development inferior even to their pre-Roman Iron Age ancestors, they maintained identifiably Roman traits for some time, and they continued to look to their own defence as Honorius had authorized.\n\nOdoacer began to negotiate with the East Roman (Byzantine) Emperor Zeno, who was busy dealing with unrest in the East. Zeno eventually granted Odoacer the status of patrician and accepted him as his own viceroy of Italy. Zeno, however, insisted that Odoacer had to pay homage to Julius Nepos as the Emperor of the Western Empire. Odoacer never returned any territory or real power, but he did issue coins in the name of Julius Nepos throughout Italy. The murder of Julius Nepos in 480 (Glycerius may have been among the conspirators) prompted Odoacer to invade Dalmatia, annexing it to his Kingdom of Italy. In 488 the Eastern emperor authorized a troublesome Goth, Theoderic (later known as \"the Great\") to take Italy. After several indecisive campaigns, in 493 Theoderic and Odoacer agreed to rule jointly. They celebrated their agreement with a banquet of reconciliation, at which Theoderic's men murdered Odoacer's, and Theoderic personally cut Odoacer in half.\n\nThe Roman Empire was not only a political unity enforced by violence. It was also the combined and elaborated civilization of the Mediterranean basin and beyond. It included manufacture, trade, and architecture, widespread secular literacy, written law, and an international language of science and literature. The Western barbarians lost much of these higher cultural practices, but their redevelopment in the Middle Ages by polities aware of the Roman achievement formed the basis for the later development of Europe.\n\nObserving the cultural and archaeological continuities through and beyond the period of lost political control, the process has been described as a complex cultural transformation, rather than a fall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11012070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11012070", "title": "Farafina", "text": "Farafina\n\nFarafina is a music and dance group from Burkina Faso, established in 1978. The eight-member group is Burkina Faso's best known musical group, and one of Africa's most internationally prominent musical groups.\n\nFarafina was founded in the southern city of Bobo Dioulasso by the balafon player Mahama Konaté, a member of the Senufo ethnic group and a performer with Burkina Faso's national ballet.\n\nThe group uses voices and instruments including as the balafon, kora, djembe, bara, tama, [doum'doum), shekere, and keyboard.\n\nThe group has toured internationally. In 1985 they played at the Montreux Jazz Festival, and in 1988 performed for 72,000 listeners at the birthday party of Nelson Mandela in Wembley Stadium, London. In 1993 they toured the United States and Canada, and have performed since then in Europe, Canada, and the United States.\n\nFarafina was one of the groups which played in 1999 in celebration of the 10th anniversary of the House of World Cultures in Berlin. That same year, the group played at the Womad Festival in Singapore.\n\nThey have collaborated and recorded with Ryuichi Sakamoto, Jon Hassell, and The Rolling Stones.\n\nA tour is in preparation for Japan and Sweden 2018.\n\nInternational booking: Artways Productions\n\n"}
{"id": "30863086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30863086", "title": "Finlandssvensk samling", "text": "Finlandssvensk samling\n\nFinlandssvensk samling (\"Finland-Swedish Association\") is a non-government affiliated organisation in Finland that strives to protect the linguistic, cultural and human rights of the Finland Swedes. The NGO was founded in 2001 by Gösta von Wendt. The membership of the organizastion has drastically increased during the last few years.\n\nIt should not be confused with Swedish Assembly of Finland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "716409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=716409", "title": "Gander International Airport", "text": "Gander International Airport\n\nGander International Airport is located in Gander, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, and is operated by the Gander International Airport Authority. Canadian Forces Base Gander shares the airfield but is a separate entity from the airport.\n\nConstruction of the airport began in 1936 and it was opened in 1938, with its first landing on January 11 of that year, by Captain Douglas Fraser flying a Fox Moth of Imperial Airways. Within a few years it had four runways and was the largest airport in the world. Its official name until 1949 was Newfoundland Airport.\n\nIn 1940, the operation of the Newfoundland Airport was assigned by the Dominion of Newfoundland to the Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) and it was renamed RCAF Station Gander in 1941. The airfield was heavily used by RAF Ferry Command and Air Transport Command for transporting newly built aircraft across the Atlantic Ocean to the European Theatre, as well as for staging operational anti-submarine patrols dedicated to hunting U-boats in the northwest Atlantic. Thousands of aircraft flown by the United States Army Air Corps through the changeover to the United States Army Air Forces, and the RCAF destined for the European Theatre, travelled through Gander.\n\nThe Royal Canadian Navy (RCN) also established Naval Radio Station Gander at the airfield, using the station as a listening post to detect the transmissions and location of enemy submarines and warships.\n\nFollowing the war, the RCAF handed operation of the airfield back to the dominion government in March 1946, although the RCN's radio station remained and the military role for the entire facility was upgraded through the Cold War. The Canadian federal government changed the name to Gander Airport after Newfoundland joined Canada in 1949. It opened the current passenger terminal in 1959.\n\nOn 16 September 1945 the first transatlantic proving flight, a Pan Am DC-4, departed Gander for Shannon in western Ireland. On 24 October 1945, the first scheduled commercial flight, an American Overseas Airlines DC-4, passed through Gander.\n\nFollowing Newfoundland's entry into Confederation, the government renamed the airport Gander International Airport and it came under the administration of Canada's federal Department of Transport. Numerous improvements were made to the runways and terminals.\n\nGander is near the great circle route between cities of the U.S. East Coast and London. Starting in the 1940s it was a refueling stop for transatlantic flights to Scotland, Ireland, and beyond, and continued in this role through the early 1960s and in some cases into the 1990s. Carriers at Gander during this era included:\n\nRunway 04/22 was extended from in 1971.\n\nWith the advent of jets with longer range in the 1960s, most flights no longer needed to refuel. Gander has decreased in importance, but it remains the home of Gander Control, one of the two air traffic controls (the other being Shanwick Oceanic Control in western Ireland) which direct the high-level airways of the North Atlantic. Most aircraft travelling to and from Europe or North America must talk to at least one of these air traffic controls.\n\nSome commercial transatlantic flights still use Gander as a refuelling stop; most notably, some American legacy carriers (United Airlines and Delta Air Lines in particular) who use the Boeing 757 to connect smaller European cities with their major US hubs. The 757 is particularly affected in this respect, as it was not an aircraft intended or designed for transatlantic flights. This practice has been controversial, since strong headwinds over the Atlantic Ocean during the winter months can result in the flights being declared \"minimum fuel\", forcing a refuelling stop at Gander in order to safely complete their journey.\n\nDuring the Cold War, Gander was notable for the number of persons from the former Warsaw Pact nations who defected there (including Soviet chess player and pianist Igor Vasilyevich Ivanov, Cuban Olympic swimmer Rafael Polinario, and the Vietnamese woman famously photographed as a naked girl fleeing a napalmed village, Phan Thi Kim Phuc). It was one of the few refueling points where airplanes could stop en route from Eastern Europe or the Soviet Union to Cuba.\n\nIn 1985, Gander was the site of the Arrow Air Flight 1285 disaster on 12 December, in which a McDonnell Douglas DC-8 with 256 on board crashed during takeoff, probably due to atmospheric icing; there were no survivors. The crash was, and remains, , the deadliest airplane accident on Canadian soil.\n\nOn September 11, 2001, with United States airspace closed due to the terrorist attacks, Gander International played host to 38 airliners, totaling 6,122 passengers and 473 crew, as part of Operation Yellow Ribbon. Gander International received more flights than any other Canadian airport involved in the operation apart from Halifax. The 6,595 passengers and crew accounted for the third highest total of passengers that landed at a Canadian airport involved in the operation, behind Vancouver and Halifax.\n\nA major reason that Gander received so much traffic was its ability to handle large aircraft, and because Transport Canada and Nav Canada instructed pilots coming from Europe to avoid the airports in major urban centres of Central Canada, like Toronto Pearson International Airport and Montréal-Dorval. The reception these travellers received in the central Newfoundland communities near the airport has been one of the most widely reported happy stories surrounding that day, and was dramatized in the musical \"Come from Away\".\n\nTo honour the people of Gander and Halifax for their support during the operation, Lufthansa named a new Airbus A340-300 \"Gander/Halifax\" on May 16, 2002. That airplane is listed with the registration D-AIFC, and was the first aircraft of that fleet with a city name from outside of Germany.\n\nThe airport was the site for Canada's memorial service to mark the first anniversary of the attack, over which Prime Minister Jean Chrétien, Transport Minister David Collenette, US Ambassador to Canada Paul Cellucci, and provincial and local officials presided. 2,500 of the 6,600 people that were diverted there the year before also attended the ceremony.\n\nOfficials at Gander International Airport have stated that the future for the airport is grim unless the federal government provides funding to cover costs. Over 50% of all aircraft operating from the air field are military, and do not pay landing fees. However, domestic passenger traffic increased by over seven percent in 2006, while weekly cargo flights from Iceland show some promise of expansion.\n\nIn April 2014, Gander Airport Authority decided on plans to abandon the existing terminal building due to high operating costs and replace it with a new terminal a quarter of the size. The fate of the old building is uncertain. The terminal, which was built in the 1950s and has drawn continuing worldwide interest for its modernist design, has been recognized by other Canadian institutions as a valuable piece of heritage architecture and has many of its original furnishings and fixtures still intact.\n\nEarly in 2016 it was revealed that Gander Airport would be losing WestJet Encore flights with service to Halifax International Airport, to Deer Lake Regional Airport due to low passenger numbers for the Q-400 operated flights, but however reinstated its flight in May 2017 and as well dropped its mainline flight to Toronto.\n\nGander has two active runways: runway 13/31 which is , and runway 03/21 (changed from 04/22 in August 2004) which measures and undergone a $10 million comprehensive rehabilitation project completed in September 2012.\n\nThe airport's runway 03/21 was designated as an emergency landing runway for NASA's Space Shuttle orbiter. The airport is also an important emergency landing runway for large aircraft in transatlantic operation in the ETOPS system, which requires aircraft to always have less than a certain distance from a suitable landing site. For many two-engine aircraft this is two or three hours with malfunction in one engine.\n\nGander Airport Safety and Airside Operations is responsible for fire and rescue operations using three vehicles at their station within the airport. It also has a mutual aid agreement with the Town of Gander Fire Department to provide additional fire fighting services. The airport fire crew is a mix of full-time and volunteers with total crew of 14.\n\nThe following fixed-base operators are based at Gander International Airport:\n\n\n\nSince the airport's founding in 1938 and through the course of World War II and subsequent beginnings of transoceanic air travel, there have been dozens of crashes around Gander of fighters, bombers, freighters, sea planes, radar aircraft, civilian airliners and private craft.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1123577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1123577", "title": "Gary Davies", "text": "Gary Davies\n\nGary Davies (born 13 December 1957, Manchester, England) is an English broadcaster. During the 1980s and early 1990s he was a BBC Radio 1 disc jockey and a regular presenter of \"Top of the Pops\". As of 2018 he can be heard on BBC Radio 2.\n\nAfter working in marketing for a mail order company and managing a Manchester disco, Davies began his broadcasting career at Manchester's Piccadilly Radio in 1979 before joining BBC Radio 1 in 1982 to present a Saturday late night show, making his debut on 4 December 1982. Within weeks he was on the roster to present \"Top Of The Pops\" on BBC television alongside his Radio 1 colleagues.\n\nIn 1984, Davies was given the slot for which he became one of radio's biggest stars when he took over the Radio 1 lunchtime show. He called it \"The Bit In The Middle\" and it consisted of features, such as \"The Day-To-Day Challenge\", in which the same person would go on air each weekday to answer quiz questions and try to upgrade their prize, and \"Willy On The Plonker\", which involved a crazed piano-playing of a well-known hit for listeners to identify.\n\nThe show was hugely important in the 1980s as at the time the new UK Top 40 was announced on Tuesday afternoons. On Sunday 6 September 1987, for one time only he presented the Sunday Afternoon Stereo Countdown of the Top 40 from 5pm to 7pm filling in for Bruno Brookes.\n\nThe show always ended with the instrumental section of The Look of Love by ABC from the album The Lexicon of Love.\n\nThere was a marketability about Davies as he was regarded by some female listeners as a heart-throb. He was projected as an eligible bachelor of the station, complete with a catchphrase \"Young, Free and Single\" and a jingle \"Wooh! Gary Davies\".\n\nDavies became popular on the Radio 1 roadshows throughout the 1980s but his own show rarely changed until it was rebranded in 1991 as \"Let's Do Lunch\", with new features, including \"Spin & Win\" (a variation on \"Willy On The Plonker\", with a cryptic clue replacing the frenetic piano work) and the \"Classic Track\", which was the one time of the week Radio 1 played a piece of classical music. Previous feature \"The Sloppy Bit\" (a dedication followed by love song) was unchanged but renamed \"Lots Of Love\". He also introduced The Non Stop Half Hour from after the 2.30pm news until 3pm, which was half an hour of non stop music.\n\nWith updated technology, the chart rundown was moved forward to Sundays from 4 October 1987 onwards. Instead, Davies did countdowns of the US chart and the UK album chart — although the US chart he featured was not the official \"Billboard\" one, but an airplay-only chart compiled by \"Radio and Records\" magazine.\n\nIn 1992, Davies quit the lunchtime show and moved to weekend breakfast, keeping a selection of the features. He also started a Sunday late night slot. The \"Lots of Love\" feature moved to this show, with dedications being read out over the music to \"Dances with Wolves\". During this period, he could also be heard deputising for weekday presenters when taking their holidays, usually Steve Wright or Nicky Campbell.\n\nIn 1993, with a new regime at Radio 1 wishing to squeeze out the older presenters representing a past era, Davies was sacked. His last record was \"Layla\" by Derek and the Dominoes — which had also been his first record on the station eleven years earlier.\n\nThe last two years of Davies' Radio 1 career allowed him the opportunity to display his love of music; higher-profile shows often negated the need for DJs to be heard caring for the songs they were playing, concentrating instead on the personality side of the programming. Davies got his opportunity to display his musical knowledge - he was, for example, the first DJ to play Radiohead on Radio 1, when a copy of their Drill EP was sent to him.\n\nDavies was also the last Radio 1 DJ to host Top of the Pops before the show's \"year zero\" re-vamp in October 1991.\n\nIn January 1994, Davies moved to Virgin Radio, presenting their Sunday morning \"Classic Tracks\" slot from 10am to 2pm. The show later went out from 9am to 1pm and he remained there until early 1995.\n\nAfter a brief sabbatical, Davies then rejoined Virgin Radio in December 1995, taking over the Sunday late night show from 10pm to 2am. This gave him the chance to revive his Sunday night format. Davies then went on to present the weekday late night slot in January 1999, where he remained until December 2000.\n\nDavies was heard on the Real Radio and the Century Radio network, presenting a CD chart show every Sunday originally from 1 to 4pm but from 2006 the show went out from 4pm to 7pm. However, this finished in mid-2008. Currently he owns a publishing company called Good Groove, where he also manages new artists. Good Groove's 1st publishing hit was Black Coffee by All Saints and Davies later went on to sign singer Corinne Bailey Rae. \n\nOn 9 June 2017, Davies stood in for Sara Cox to present a special 2¾ hour edition of Sounds of the 80s on BBC Radio 2. This was his first time back on BBC Radio for 23 years. In October 2017, January 2018 & October 2018 Davies sat in for Steve Wright's BBC Radio 2 show.\nOn 18 May 2018, Davies took over from Sara Cox as host of Radio 2 Sounds of the 80s.\n"}
{"id": "32548963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32548963", "title": "Guinea women's national football team", "text": "Guinea women's national football team\n\nThe Guinea women's national football team is the national women's football team of Guinea and is overseen by the Fédération Guinéenne de Football.\n\n"}
{"id": "13177936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13177936", "title": "Gurdwaras in Asia", "text": "Gurdwaras in Asia\n\nThis is a list of gurdwaras in Asia, excluding gurdwaras in India and Pakistan, the birthplace of Sikhism.\n\nA gurdwara is a place of worship within Sikhism. Three activities carried out in all gurdwaras are:\n\n\n\nSikh Temple Kengtung, Si Dan Street (Opp 'Happy Cafe') Kyaing Tong, Eastern Shan State\n\n\n\nThere are two cities in Indonesia which are the main residence of Sikh community, Medan in first place followed by Jakarta.\nThere was a Gurdwara in Aceh Province, but already closed several years ago. Some of the Sanggat moved to Medan, and the rest was unknown.\nThere was also Sikh community in Padang city, but there's no indicated that a Gurdwara was built there, and the community is unknown.\n\n\nshow the picture and history of the gurdwara\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are 20 gurdwaras in Thailand, but all are known as Sikh temples, excluding the ones listed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57049135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57049135", "title": "Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir", "text": "Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir\n\nHalla Signý Kristjánsdóttir (born 1 May 1964) is an Icelandic politician who is a member of the Althing (Iceland's parliament) for the Northwest Constituency since 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "21598233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21598233", "title": "Impulse (retailer)", "text": "Impulse (retailer)\n\nImpulse Music Travel is an entertainment retail chain in the United Kingdom, with 24 concessions in various UK airports and railway stations. The company was formed in March 1994. In July 2007, Managing Director Les Whitfield sold the company.\n\nThe company was formed in March 1994 and entered into administration on 21 March 2001 with BDO Stoy Hayward. Ray Stocking, joint administrator of Impulse Music Travel, said the rapid expansion of the chain was one of the reasons why it had forced the company into administration. The company was brought out of administration and sold in July 2007. There are currently 24 Impulse locations across the United Kingdom.\n\nIn the 1990s, the company operated the Selfridges, in London, and Fenwicks, in Newcastle, computer departments. Other store locations previously included Burnley, Darlington, Hartlepool and Macclesfield, and King's Cross and Marylebone railway stations.\n\nThe original concessions and retail outlets were designed by Mark Homer Design - www.markhomerdesign.co.uk\n\nToday, Impulse operates concessions at Birmingham Airport, London Luton Airport, Manchester Airport formed through contracts with BAA.\n\nImpulse Music Travel concessions mainly stock CDs, DVDs and Video Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "36415847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36415847", "title": "Intelsat 604", "text": "Intelsat 604\n\nIntelsat 604, previously named Intelsat VI F-4, was a communications satellite operated by Intelsat. Launched in 1990, it was the third of five Intelsat VI satellites to be launched. The Intelsat VI series was constructed by Hughes Aircraft, based on the HS-389 satellite bus.\n\nIntelsat 604 was launched at 11:19 UTC on 23 June 1990, atop a Commercial Titan III carrier rocket, flight number CT-3, with an Orbus-21S upper stage. The launch took place from Launch Complex 40 at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, and successfully placed Intelsat 604 into a geosynchronous transfer orbit. The satellite raised itself into its final geostationary orbit using two liquid-fuelled R-4D-12 engines, with the satellite arriving in geostationary orbit on 28 June 1990.\n\nIntelsat 604 initially operated in a geostationary orbit with a perigee of , an apogee of , and 0.3 degrees of inclination, however over time this became more inclined. The satellite carried 38 IEEE C band and ten IEEE transponders, and had a design life of 13 years and a mass of .\n\nFollowing its arrival in geostationary orbit, Intelsat 604 was deployed at a longitude of 38 degrees west. It was moved to 27.5 degrees west in January 1991, where it operated until February 1992. From October 1992 to March 2002, it was operated at 60 degrees east. After leaving this position, it was positioned at 157 degrees east from August 2002 to September 2005. Its final deployment was from February to March 2006, at 177.85 degrees. The satellite was decommissioned on 6 April 2006 after it had been moved to a graveyard orbit.\n"}
{"id": "23790765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23790765", "title": "International Sand Sculpture Festival", "text": "International Sand Sculpture Festival\n\nDescribed as the largest sand sculpture event in the world, the International Sand Sculpture Festival or Festival Internacional de Escultura em Areia (FIESA) has been held in Pêra, Algarve, Portugal annually since 2003. The site at occupies . Each year about 60 artists use 35000 tons of sand to create 50 works of art. The exhibition is also open in the evenings with atmospheric lighting.\n\nEach year the exhibition has a different theme:\n\n2014: Music II\n2013: Music\n2012: Idols\n2011: Animal Kingdom\n2010: Living World\n2009: Discoveries\n2008: Hollywood Films and Characters\n2007: Wonders of the World\n2006: Mythology\n2005: Lost Worlds\n2004: Tales of Enchantment\n\n"}
{"id": "35012740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35012740", "title": "Kin Kiesse", "text": "Kin Kiesse\n\nKin Kiesse is a 1982 documentary film about \"Kin\" (Kinshasa), the capital of Zaire, and the capital of paradoxes and excesses, commentated on by one of its naïf artists, the painter Chéri Samba. We discover the \"Kin\" of night clubs, high buildings, bicycle-taxis, shoe shiners and hairdressers, the \"Kin\" of poor neighborhoods, but, above all, the \"Kin\" of music, where all the genres rub elbows, from beer party brass bands to the rumba to traditional dances, without leaving out the in-fashion bands of the time.\n\nAccording to the film's director, Mwezé Ngangura, Chéri Samba was instrumental in the making of the film, convincing the French Ministry of Co-operation, France 2 and Congolese television that Ngangura could make a film on Kinshasa.\n\n"}
{"id": "5298612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5298612", "title": "Krosswindz", "text": "Krosswindz\n\nKrosswindz (Bengali: ক্রসউইন্ডস) is a Bengali rock/folk-fusion band, based in Kolkata, India. They have played all over India and abroad, and have helped urbanize the folk music of Bengal and have tried to make it popular. Krosswindz is one of the few Kolkata based Bengali rock bands who have female singers in their lead vocals. \n\nThe band was formed in 1990, and started out playing at college festivals. Today, they have toured all over India and have played at all major college festivals and stadium concerts. The band has performed and collaborated with internationally reputed names like Herbie Hancock (USA), Sky High (Sweden), Tizian Jost (Germany),Pandit Ramesh Mishra (Indian Sarangi Player) and The Jazz Ambassadors(USA). The band's music has been featured in numerous documentary films and commercials.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40912141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40912141", "title": "Kulturfabrik Esch-sur-Alzette (Luxembourg)", "text": "Kulturfabrik Esch-sur-Alzette (Luxembourg)\n\nThe Cultural Centre KULTURFABRIK is located at the heart of the Great Region in the south of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, in Esch-sur-Alzette in the old buildings of a public slaughterhouse from the 19th Century.\n\n\nCurrently, the Cultural Centre is used as a center for the creative arts, artist residencies and as a platform for sustainable development \n\nA 4500 m2 area with \n\n\n"}
{"id": "27834657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27834657", "title": "Les Soleils des indépendances", "text": "Les Soleils des indépendances\n\nLes Soleils des indépendances (\"The Suns of Independence\") is the first novel by Ivorian author Ahmadou Kourouma. It won the Grand prix littéraire d'Afrique noire in 1969.\n\nThe title is a play on words involving the meaning of the Maninka word \"télé\", which can mean \"sun\", but also \"day\", \"era\" or \"period [of time]\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33325079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33325079", "title": "Leteči mački", "text": "Leteči mački\n\nLeteči mački is a novel by Slovenian author Dim Zupan. It was first published in 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "7433296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7433296", "title": "Life in China", "text": "Life in China\n\nLife In China is a weekly English radio program produced by China Radio International that features articles about ordinary people in China. The show is hosted by Shan Shan. The program airs on Round the Clock and is available on the podcasts through the World Radio Network on the Friday edition in the United States, Saturday edition in Beijing. The format of the program is similar to NPR's \"Morning Edition\" and \"All Things Considered\" in that they analyze the news and events of today and put them into perspective with ordinary people.\n\nThe program takes the perspective of the ordinary Chinese citizen and make a story out of the ordinary day-to-day routine. For example, there was a report done on internet addiction by high school students and what happened when a town decided to enforce a curfew that basically shut down internet cafes in that town after 10pm. The result was that those addicted high schoolers started studying again and improved their grades.\n\n"}
{"id": "53044095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53044095", "title": "MAGNETIC festival", "text": "MAGNETIC festival\n\nMAGNETIC festival is an electronic music festival; established in 2012, the event is held biannually in Prague, the Czech Republic, on the premises of the PVA Expo trade fair halls. MAGNETIC Festival takes place in early May and mid-December.\n\nThe festival is the brainchild of John Culter, a DJ and a music producer. The very first MAGNETIC Festival took place on May 5, 2012, launching a series of recognized electronic music events within Central Europe. Since 2014, supporting events MAGNETIC Club Life and MAGNETIC Arena have become a part of the festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855747", "title": "Menta", "text": "Menta\n\nMenta is a sweet mint liqueur prepared from natural ingredients like spearmint oil. It is a refreshing drink popular in Bulgaria in the summertime. It is a component of some cocktails as the traditional \"Cloud\" (in Bulgarian - Облак) where it is combined with Mastika.\n\n"}
{"id": "36466399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36466399", "title": "Mouyondzi Airport", "text": "Mouyondzi Airport\n\nMouyondzi Airport was an airstrip east of the town of Mouyondzi, in the Bouenza Department of the Republic of the Congo. The land is now under cultivation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3634858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3634858", "title": "National Bank of Moldova", "text": "National Bank of Moldova\n\nThe National Bank of Moldova () is the central bank of the Republic of Moldova.\n\nThe National Bank of Moldova is a legal, public, autonomous person responsible to the Parliament. The main objective of the NBM is the achievement and maintenance of the stability of the national currency. The National Bank cooperates with the Government with the view to achieving its objectives and, according to the Law, undertakes the necessary measures to implement such cooperation. The NBM periodically informs the public about macroeconomic analysis, financial market evolution and statistic data, including on money supply, credit granting, balance of payments and foreign exchange market.\n\nLeonid Tălmaci served as the first Governor of the National Bank (1991–2009). Dorin Drăguțanu has served as the Governor of the National Bank since November 2009.\nOn the 11th of March 2016, Sergiu Cioclea was elected as the new Governor by the country's parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "23666734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23666734", "title": "Norlandair", "text": "Norlandair\n\nNorlandair is an Icelandic airline. Norlandair was founded on 1 June 2008 when it acquired the Twin Otter flight operation of Air Iceland. \n\nThe company can trace its roots to a company with the same name, i.e. Norlandair, which was founded in 1974. That company was founded by a few aviation professionals that acquired North Air, an aviation company based in Akureyri. ln 1975 Icelandair bought a stake in the company and by that Norlandair purchased a Twin Otter aircraft that was used in scheduled flights and charter flights. This event also marks the beginning of Norlandair offering aviation services on the east coast of Greenland.\n\nln 1997, Norlandair and the domestic flight operations of Icelandair merged and the name was changed to Air Iceland. The charter flight department was located in Akureyri and the maintenance department for the Twin Otter aircraft. ln 2008 Air Iceland decided to divest the Twin Otter aircraft and the maintenance department in Akureyri. Following that decision, a few former employees of Air Iceland and investors decided to buy the operations from Air Iceland and it was decided to use the good name of Norlandair as the company was called prior to the merger with Icelandair.\n\nNorlandair has three scheduled destinations, Grímsey, Vopnafjörður and Þórshöfn, which it flies in cooperation with Air Iceland. It also operates various charter flights in Iceland and Greenland, to Svalbard and other arctic regions.\n\nNorlandair's fleet consists of three de Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otters aircraft, including one it purchased from Air Greenland in 2011. Additionally it operates one Beechcraft B200 King Air, and one GippsAero GA8 Airvan.\n\n"}
{"id": "43237909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43237909", "title": "Portugal in the Eurovision Song Contest 1998", "text": "Portugal in the Eurovision Song Contest 1998\n\nPortugal participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 1998 in Birmingham. Alma Lusa represented Portugal with the song \"Se eu te pudesse abracar\". They scored 36 points (highest 10 from France) placing 12th.\n\n"}
{"id": "42533267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42533267", "title": "Ratevo", "text": "Ratevo\n\nRatevo () is a village in the Berovo Municipality of Macedonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "39282803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39282803", "title": "Research Library in Olomouc", "text": "Research Library in Olomouc\n\nThe Research Library in Olomouc (Czech: \"Vědecká knihovna v Olomouci\") is a public library in Olomouc, Czech Republic.\n\nThe library was established in 1566 by the Olomouc college and served until 1860 as University of Olomouc Library.\n\nNowadays it is one of the largest libraries in the Czech Republic with unique collection of historical sources, among others 1451 manuscripts and 1700 incunables.\n"}
{"id": "15640847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15640847", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Plzeň", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Plzeň\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Plzeň () is a diocese located in the city of Plzeň in the Ecclesiastical province of Prague in the Czech Republic.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8023486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8023486", "title": "Security community", "text": "Security community\n\nA security community is a region in which a large-scale use of violence (such as war) has become very unlikely or even unthinkable. The term was coined by the prominent political scientist Karl Deutsch in 1957. In their seminal work \"Political Community and the North Atlantic Area: International Organization in the Light of Historical Experience\", Deutsch and his collaborators defined a security community as \"a group of people\" believing \"that they have come to agreement on at least this one point: that common social problems must and can be resolved by processes of 'peaceful change. Peaceful change was defined as \"the resolution of social problems, normally by institutionalized procedures, without resort to large-scale physical force\". People in a security community are also bound by the \"sense of community\", the mutual sympathy, trust, and common interests. \n\nThe concept has not become a mainstream term in the field of international security despite its long history. After the end of the Cold War, the concept of a security community was adapted by constructivist scholars. A major impetus was the book \"Security Communities\" (1998), edited by Emanuel Adler and Michael Barnett. They redefined the security community by shared identities, values, and meanings; many-sided direct interactions; and reciprocal long-term interest. Several regions of the world have been studied in the security community framework since then, most notably the European Union, the Canada–United States and Mexico–United States dyads, Mercosur, and Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Michael Haas compared the Asian and Pacific Council, Asian-Pacific Parliamentarians Union, ASEAN, Indochinese Foreign Ministers Conference, South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, Southeast Asia Treaty Organization, and the South Pacific Forum (later renamed the Pacific Islands Forum).\n\nDeutsch divided security communities into two types: the amalgamated and pluralistic ones. Amalgamated security communities are quite rare in history. They are created when two or more previously independent states form a common government. An example is the United States after the original thirteen colonies ceded much of their governing powers to the federal government. Amalgamation is not always successful and can be overturned, as the failed Union between Sweden and Norway exemplifies. An alternative and less ambitious process is called integration. Integration leads to a pluralistic security community, in which states retain their sovereignty. The United States with Canada is an example of a pluralistic security community. Both countries are politically independent, but they do not expect to have future military confrontations, in spite of having had some in the past. Deutsch argued that the pluralistic security communities are easier to establish and maintain than their amalgamated counterparts.\n\nAdler and Barnett described the typical evolution of a security community from nascent to ascendant to mature. A nascent security community meets the basic expectations of peaceful change, while a mature security community is also characterized by some collective security mechanisms and supranational or transnational elements. Adler and Barnett further divided the mature security communities into \"tightly\" and \"loosely coupled\", depending on the level of their integration.\n\nRaimo Väyrynen and Andrej Tusicisny differentiated between interstate security communities (where war between states is unlikely) and comprehensive security communities (where both interstate conflicts and civil wars are seen as unthinkable). Western Europe is a classic example of a comprehensive security community, while South East Asia is usually seen as an interstate security community.\n\nAccording to Deutsch, states may form a security community if the current state of the international system increases \"unattractiveness and improbability of war among the political units concerned\". For instance, security concerns led the United States and Mexico to form a pluralistic security community in anticipation of World War II. Deutsch identified two conditions that should facilitate formation of a pluralistic security community. The first one is \"the capacity of the participating political units or governments to respond to each other's needs, messages, and actions quickly, adequately, and without resort to violence\". One way states build this capacity is by common membership in international organizations. The second condition is the \"compatibility of major values relevant to political decision-making\". An example of a major politically relevant value given by Deutsch is political ideology. However, more recent empirical research showed that the often hypothesized role of liberal values and general trust in the development of security communities is overestimated. Another test, by Michael Haas, compared successful with unsuccessful security-community-oriented organizations, finding that the principal variable with a statistically significant relationship out of Deutsch's 12 variables was mutual compatibility of main values.\n\nSince amalgamation is more demanding than integration, Deutsch identified eight conditions that should be satisfied if amalgamation is to succeed: the mutual compatibility of main values, a distinctive way of life, capabilities and processes of cross-cutting communication, high geographic and social mobility, multiplicity and balance of transactions, a significant frequency of some interchange in group roles, a broadening of the political elite, and high political and administrative capabilities. In addition, the politically relevant strata of the population should be willing to accept and support common governmental institutions, remain loyal to them, and operate these common institutions with mutual attention to the messages and needs of all participating units.\n\nCarol Weaver has posited that, in order to arise and endure, security communities need to be based on balanced multipolarity.\n\nThe term \"security community\" may also refer to a policy community working on issues of security. It can be a hierarchical or networked group of professionals consisting, for instance, of politicians, military and civilian bureaucrats, and researchers. An example is the computer security community working on computer security.\n"}
{"id": "11691824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11691824", "title": "Sex Addicts Anonymous", "text": "Sex Addicts Anonymous\n\nSex Addicts Anonymous (SAA) is a twelve-step program for people who want to stop their addictive sexual behavior. There also exists a group known as COSA, for those who have been impacted by others' sexual addiction.\n\nSAA was founded in 1977 by several men who wanted a greater sense of anonymity than what they perceived in other twelve step programs for sex addicts. SAA is open to anyone who desires greater control over their behavior, and is intended to be safe for people of all sexual orientations. \n\nIn SAA each member creates a unique definition of \"sexual sobriety\" based on abstaining from a personalized list of compulsive sexual behaviors. Members are encouraged to respect each other's definitions of sobriety. Many SAA members use a \"three circle\" concept to model their behaviors. The inner circle represents the compulsive sexual behaviors that must not be practiced. Inner circle behaviors might include having sex with a prostitute, or acting out with a nonconsensual victim. The outer circle includes sexual and nonsexual behaviors that are definitely healthy. Outer circle behaviors might include sex with a partner in a monogamous relationship or getting eight hours of sleep a night. In the middle circle are behaviors that are not considered a relapse (inner circle behaviors), but could quickly lead to one if left unchecked. Middle circle behaviors might include looking for a prostitute or contacting an old acting out partner.\n\nIn addition to regular meetings SAA also organizes \"boundary meetings.\" These are special meetings for professional caregivers such as medical doctors, psychotherapists, and clergy who need to attend meetings separate from clients, patients, and parishioners.\n\nSome SAA members (a minority) may have a history of sexual abuse during their childhood, and more substance abuse problems than control groups. SAA publishes the book \"Sex Addicts Anonymous\". It is widely used in SAA and has been officially approved as their basic text by the ISO of SAA, Inc Literature Committee. It has gained the approval of the annual conference of group delegates.\n\nSeveral types of meetings are offered at SAA: in-person meetings, telemeetings, and online meetings. Meetings can be mixed (meaning both men and women attend) or gender-specific (men-only meetings vs. women-only meetings). Meetings that are advertised as closed are “open only to those individuals who have a desire to stop their addictive behavior\"; in contrast, open meetings are “open to anyone interested in…SAA,” regardless of whether the individual has expressed a desire to change. Additionally, telemeetings, or meetings via conference calls, and internet-based meetings are sources of real-time support outside of the traditional in-person meeting. In the United States, SAA meetings are held in all fifty states as well as the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.\n\nA sponsor is a member that has been part of the program for a large period of time and has attained a desirable level of sex sobriety. These individuals will help new members by offering a more personal level of availability in order to answer questions when needed. Usually, newcomers will find a proper sponsor after attending a few meetings taking in consideration the level of comfort between the new member and the old one, but if a good relationship is attained, the new attendee will continue to be guided by this person.\n\nCOSA is a recovery program for family or friends whose lives have been affected by someone else's compulsive sexual behavior. The official name of the organization is the acronym COSA; it is no longer the abbreviation C.O.S.A. as there was no agreement that it stood for either 'Codependents of Sex Addicts' or 'Co-Sex Addicts'. Each COSA member may choose to define him/herself as a codependent of sexual addiction, as a co-sex addict, or simply as a member of COSA, according to his or her own personal experience and conscience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5722021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5722021", "title": "Skilandis", "text": "Skilandis\n\nSkilandis or Kindziukas is a Lithuanian matured sausage made of meat, fat, salt, pepper and garlic. The ground meat is traditionally pressed into a pig's stomach or bladder, but today may be contained in other skins. The sausage is dried and cold-smoked. Skilandis dates back to at least the 16th century - the word \"skilandis\" is referred to in documents from various locations across the Grand Duchy of Lithuania as early as in the 16th-18th centuries.\n\nThe term \"skilandis\" has protected status under European Union law. It is added to the list of Protected Designations of Origin (PDO). \n\n"}
{"id": "45586691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45586691", "title": "Slovakia in the Eurovision Young Dancers", "text": "Slovakia in the Eurovision Young Dancers\n\nSlovakia has participated in the Eurovision Young Dancers twice since its debut in 1997. The country returned to the contest after a fifteen-year break in 2015\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30175856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30175856", "title": "The Athlete (2009 film)", "text": "The Athlete (2009 film)\n\nThe Athlete (, \"Atletu\") is a 2009 Ethiopian drama film directed by Davey Frankel and Rasselas Lakew. The film was selected as the Ethiopian entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 83rd Academy Awards, but it did not make the final shortlist. It was the first Ethiopian film to be submitted in the category for Best Foreign Language Film. The film has been reviewed in an international journal.\n\nA mixture of fiction and stock footage, \"The Athlete\" is a portrait of the marathon runner from Ethiopia, Abebe Bikila. In 1960, he participated in the Rome Olympic Games as a complete unknown. However, the son of a shepherd ran barefoot and won the gold medal. Four years later, he repeated his feat at the Tokyo Olympic Games, becoming the first man to win the Olympic marathon twice in a row. A few years later, he suffered a car accident and lost the use of his legs. He died four years later.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24774881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24774881", "title": "The Road (2001 film)", "text": "The Road (2001 film)\n\nThe Road () is a 2001 Kazakhstani drama film directed by Darezhan Omirbaev. It was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "42862255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42862255", "title": "Tomanova Formation", "text": "Tomanova Formation\n\nThe Tomanova Formation is a Mesozoic geologic formation in Slovakia. Fossil theropod tracks have been reported from the formation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20150633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20150633", "title": "Wilfred Owen: A Remembrance Tale", "text": "Wilfred Owen: A Remembrance Tale\n\nWilfred Owen: A Remembrance Tale was a 1-hour 2007 BBC documentary on the life of the First World War poet Wilfred Owen. It was presented by Jeremy Paxman and starred Samuel Barnett as Owen and Deborah Findlay as his mother Susan. It premiered on BBC One on Remembrance Sunday 2007.\n"}
