{"id": "1683316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1683316", "title": "1707 in music", "text": "1707 in music\n\nThe year 1707 in music involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "623801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=623801", "title": "Ama Ata Aidoo", "text": "Ama Ata Aidoo\n\nAma Ata Aidoo, \"née\" Christina Ama Aidoo (born 23 March 1942) is a Ghanaian author, poet, playwright and academic. She was also a Minister of Education in Ghana under the fourth President of Ghana, Jerry Rawlings's administration. She currently lives in Ghana, where in the year 2000 she established the Mbaasem Foundation to promote and support the work of African women writers.\n\nBorn in Saltpond in Ghana's Central Region, Ghana, she grew up in a Fante royal household, the daughter of Nana Yaw Fama, chief of Abeadzi Kyiakor, and Maame Abasema since her father was a king it automatically makes her a princess . Aidoo was sent by her father to Wesley Girls' Senior High School in Cape Coast, from 1961 to 1964. The headmistress of Wesley Girls' bought her her first typewriter. After leaving high school, she enrolled at the University of Ghana in Legon and received her Bachelor of Arts in English as well as writing her first play, \"The Dilemma of a Ghost\", in 1964. The play was published by Longman the following year, making Aidoo the first published African woman dramatist.\n\nAma Ata Aidoo is Ghanaian playwright and former Education Minister of Ghana. She has portrayed the role of African women in contemporary society. She has opined that the idea of nationalism has been deployed by recent leaders as a means of keeping people oppressed. She has criticized those literate Africans who profess to love their country but are seduced away by the benefits of the developed world. She believes in a distinct African identity, which she views from a female perspective.\n\nShe worked in the United States, where she held a fellowship in creative writing at Stanford University. She also served as a research fellow at the Institute of African Studies, University of Ghana, and as a Lecturer in English at the University of Cape Coast, eventually rising there to the position of Professor.\n\nAside from her literary career, Aidoo was appointed Minister of Education under the Provisional National Defence Council in 1982. She resigned after 18 months, realising that she would be unable to achieve her aim of making education in Ghana freely accessible to all. She has also spent a great deal of time teaching and living abroad for months at a time. She has lived in the United States, Britain, Germany, and Zimbabwe. In London in 1986 she delivered the Walter Rodney Visions of Africa lecture organised by the support group for Bogle-L'Ouverture publishing house. Aidoo taught various English courses at Hamilton College in Clinton, New York, in the early to mid-1990s. She is currently a Visiting Professor in the Africana Studies Department at Brown University.\n\nAidoo is a patron of the Etisalat Prize for Literature (alongside Dele Olojede, Ellah Wakatama Allfrey, Margaret Busby, Sarah Ladipo Manyika and Zakes Mda), created in 2013 as a platform for African writers of debut books of fiction.\n\nShe is the subject of a 2014 documentary film, \"The Art of Ama Ata Aidoo\", made by Yaba Badoe.\n\nAidoo's works of fiction particularly deal with the tension between Western and African world views. Her first novel, \"Our Sister Killjoy\", was published in 1977 and remains one of her most popular works. Many of Aidoo's protagonists are women who defy the stereotypical women's roles of their time, as in her play \"Anowa\". Her novel \"Changes\" won the 1992 Commonwealth Writers' Prize for Best Book (Africa). She is also an accomplished poet—her collection \"Someone Talking to Sometime\" won the Nelson Mandela Prize for Poetry in 1987—and has written several children's books.\n\nShe contributed the piece \"To be a woman\" to the 1984 anthology \"\", edited by Robin Morgan.\n\nIn 2000 she founded the Mbaasem Foundation, a non-governmental organization based in Ghana with a mission \"to support the development and sustainability of African women writers and their artistic output\", which she runs together with her daughter Kinna Likimani and a board of management.\n\nAidoo is the editor of the 2006 anthology \"African Love Stories\".\n\nAwards Aidoo has received include the 1992 Commonwealth Writers' Prize for Best Book (Africa) for her novel \"Changes\".\n\nThe Aidoo-Snyder book prize, awarded by the Women’s Caucus of the African Studies Association for an outstanding book published by a woman that prioritizes African women’s experiences, is named in honour of Ama Ata Aidoo and of Margaret C. Snyder, who was the founding director of UNIFEM.\n\nLaunched in March 2017, the Ama Ata Aidoo Centre for Creative Writing (Aidoo Centre), under the auspices of the Kojo Yankah School of Communications Studies at the African University College of Communications (AUCC) in Adabraka, Accra, was named in her honour — the first centre of its kind in West Africa, with Nii Ayikwei Parkes as its director.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54383792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54383792", "title": "American verismo", "text": "American verismo\n\nAmerican verismo describes an artistic style of American literature, music, or painting influenced and inspired by artistic ideas that began in 19th-century Italian culture, movements that used motifs from everyday life and working class persons from both urban and rural situations. American composers, writers, painters, and poets have used this genre to create works that contain socio-political as well as purely aesthetic statements.\n\nIn Italy, the term “verismo” is applied to the use of everyday life and characters in artistic works. It was introduced into opera in the early 1900s in reaction to contemporary conventions that were regarded as artificial and untruthful.\n\nGenerally, “verismo” (meaning \"realism,\" from Italian \"vero\", meaning \"true\") refers to a 19th-century Italian painting style. This style was practiced most characteristically by the \"I Macchiaioli\" a group of Tuscan painters, who were forerunners of the French Impressionists. The style and its underlying social goals related to general 19th-century artistic developments that occurred in many countries, from Scandinavia to the Mediterranean, which stemmed from nationalist movements and intellectuals' responses to the effects of industrialization.\n\nIn Italy, the national origin of “verismo,” especially in literature and opera, was a profound sympathy for the disadvantaged working people, whose life, for the most part, consisted of hard labor, poverty, and oppression.\n\nFor example, the authors G. Verga, L. Capuana, D. Ciampoli, R. Fucini, M. Serao introduced the language of common people into their works and made extensive use of dialects. The Italians also created a theater that reflected everyday life, as exemplified by the comedies of G. Rovetta and G. Giacosa.\n\nIn America, Tobias Picker’s 2013 opera that opened at the San Francisco Opera was acclaimed as a “triumph of American verismo.”\n\nVerismo opera composers often chose rural folk, poor city dwellers, and representatives of bohemianism. Early works in this genre were P. Mascagni’s Cavalleria Rusticana( 1890) which chose rural folk, poor city dwellers, and bohemian characters.\n\nThe American painter Jerry Ross calls his style “American verismo.” Jerry Ross has been teaching a series of workshops and classes in Eugene, Oregon based on his study of the I Macchiaioli. He founded the group “Club Macchia,” a group of like-minded plein air painters working in Oregon and Washington. The group had two important exhibitions in Oregon at the Newport Art Center in Newport and the Jacobs Gallery in Eugene. The exhibition at the Jacobs Gallery in Eugene saw the distribution of their book about the group and was well attended. This was one of the last exhibitions held at the Gallery before it went out of business in 2015.\n\nIn his classes, Ross teaches the concept of Macchia as “spot or stain or dab” and distinguishes between mass, line, color, and edge macchie (the plural of macchia). Explaining the Francophile bias of American expressionism, Ross builds on the ideas of art historian Albert Boime and his book \"The Art of the Macchia and the Risorgimento, Representing Culture and Nationalism in Nineteenth-Century Italy\".\n\nThis text had a huge effect on Ross who began incorporating the story of the I Macchialioli into his class materials. Ross’s own background in the radical politics of the 1960s and 1970s led to his identification with the Tuscan group, many of whom participated in the struggle for Italian socialism and national unification. In 2013, Ross wrote a \"Manifesto of American Verismo,\" which summarized many of his ideas on the subject.\n\nDesiring a painting style that was truly Italian and representative of their particular cultural characteristics, loose and expressive and breaking with tradition the I Macchiaioli began artistic movement. As explained by Boime, their “sketch style” and “non finito” (unfinished) look was both modern and a clean break with academic “polish,” but also the subject matter was often political as well, featuring socio-political issues such as the plight of women, workers, and farmers.\n\nRoss makes the point that while line, mass, and color are important in every painting, for rapid plein air work one might be better off beginning with thumbnail “scribble” sketches and small two to four values studies using the biggest brush possible for the job. This “disegno” (design) becomes the blueprint for the painting and establishes the “macchia” (in the sense of the harmonious overall distribution of lights and darks). Without a strong macchia structure the work will lack “impact” (the term used by the I Macchiaioli artists) for such an imprimatur (underpainting) that becomes the basis for the final work (either through wet into wet or wet into dry approaches).\n\nRoss points out that the most experienced plein air painters generally use this approach, sometimes called “contemporary impressionism.” Ross notes that after absorbing some of the ideas in painting brought into the light of day by the Abstract Expressionists, plein air painters need to incorporate abstraction and descriptive/expressive brushwork as well as texture techniques that give the surface a three-dimensional quality. His class “abstraction in plein air” emphasizes the idea of discovery of large abstract shapes and the importance of composition. In his approach, “there is abstraction within realism and realism within abstraction.”\n"}
{"id": "28924150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28924150", "title": "Architecture of Madagascar", "text": "Architecture of Madagascar\n\nThe architecture of Madagascar is unique in Africa, bearing strong resemblance to the construction norms and methods of Southern Borneo from which the earliest inhabitants of Madagascar are believed to have immigrated. Throughout Madagascar and the Kalimantan region of Borneo, most traditional houses follow a rectangular rather than round form, and feature a steeply sloped, peaked roof supported by a central pillar.\n\nDifferences in the predominant traditional construction materials used serve as the basis for much of the diversity in Malagasy architecture. Locally available plant materials were the earliest materials used and remain the most common among traditional communities. In intermediary zones between the central highlands and humid coastal areas, hybrid variations have developed that use cob and sticks. Wood construction, once common across the island, declined as a growing human population destroyed greater swaths of virgin rainforest for slash and burn agriculture and zebu cattle pasture. The Zafimaniry communities of the central highland montane forests are the only Malagasy ethnic group who have preserved the island's original wooden architectural traditions; their craft was added to the UNESCO list of Intangible Cultural Heritage in 2003. As wood became scarce over time, wooden houses became the privilege of the noble class in certain communities, as exemplified by the homes of the Merina nobility in the 19th century Kingdom of Madagascar. The use of stone as a building material was traditionally limited to the construction of tombs, a significant feature of the cultural landscape in Madagascar due to the prominent position occupied by ancestors in Malagasy cosmology. The island has produced several distinct traditions in tomb architecture: among the Mahafaly of the southwest coast, the top of tombs may be stacked with the skulls of sacrificed zebu and spiked with \"aloalo\", decoratively carved tomb posts, while among the Merina, aristocrats historically constructed a small wooden house on top of the tomb to symbolize their \"andriana\" status and provide an earthly space to house their ancestors' spirits.\n\nTraditional styles of architecture in Madagascar have been impacted over the past two hundred years by the increasing influence of European styles. A shift toward brick construction in the Highlands began during the reign of Queen Ranavalona II (1868–1883) based on models introduced by missionaries of the London Missionary Society and contacts with other foreigners. Foreign influence further expanded following the collapse of the monarchy and French colonization of the island in 1896. Modernization over the past several decades has increasingly led to the abandonment of certain traditional norms related to the external orientation and internal layout of houses and the use of certain customary building materials, particularly in the Highlands. Among those with means, foreign construction materials and techniques – namely imported concrete, glass and wrought iron features – have gained in popularity, to the detriment of traditional practices.\n\nThe architecture of Madagascar is unique in Africa, bearing strong resemblance to the architecture of southern Borneo from which the earliest inhabitants of Madagascar are believed to have emigrated. Traditional construction in this part of Borneo, also known as South Kalimantan, is distinguished by rectangular houses raised on piles. The roof, which is supported by a central pillar, is steeply sloped; the gable beams cross to form roof horns that may be decoratively carved. The central Highlands of Madagascar are populated by the Merina, peoples who bear strong physiological and cultural resemblance to their Kalimantan ancestors; here, the traditional wooden houses of the aristocracy feature a central pillar (\"andry\") supporting a steeply sloped roof decorated with roof horns (\"tandro-trano\"). In the southeast of Madagascar, actual zebu horns were traditionally affixed to the gable peak. Throughout Madagascar, houses are rectangular with a gabled roof as in Kalimantan, central pillars are widespread, and in all but a handful of regions, traditional homes are built on piles in a manner handed down from generation to generation, regardless of whether the feature is suited to local conditions.\n\nCertain cosmological and symbolic elements are common across Indonesian and Malagasy architecture as well. The central house pillar is sacred in Kalimantan and Madagascar alike, and in both places, upon constructing a new house this pillar was often traditionally anointed with blood. The features of the building or its dimensions (length, size, and particularly the height) are often symbolically indicative of the status of its occupants or the importance of its purpose on both islands. Likewise, both Madagascar and Borneo have a tradition of partially above-ground tomb construction and the inhabitants of both islands practice the carving of decorative wooden funerary posts, called \"aloalo\" in western Madagascar and \"klirieng\" in the Kajang dialect of Borneo.\n\n Dwellings made of plant material are common in the coastal regions and were once commonly used throughout the Highlands as well. The types of plants available in a given locality determine the building material and style of construction. The vast majority of homes made of plant material are rectangular, low (one-story) houses with a peaked roof and are often built on low stilts. These architectural features are nearly identical to those found in parts of Indonesia. Materials used for construction include reeds (near rivers), rushes (in the southwest around Toliara), endemic succulents (as fencing in the south), wood (in the south and among the Zafimaniry, and formerly common in the Highlands), bamboo (especially in the eastern rain forests), papyrus (formerly in the Highlands around Lake Alaotra), grasses (ubiquitous), palms (ubiquitous but prevalent in the west around Mahajanga) and raffia (especially in the north and northeast).\n\nFor much of the length of the eastern coast of Madagascar bordering the Indian Ocean, architecture is highly uniform: nearly all traditional homes in this region are built on low stilts and are roofed with thatch made of the fronds of the traveler's palm (\"ravinala madagascariensis\"). The stilts, floor and walls are commonly made of the trunk of this same plant, typically after pounding it flat to make wide planks (for floors and roofing) or narrow strips (for walls). These strips are affixed vertically to the frame; the raffia plant is often used in the same way, in place of the traveler's palm, in the north. When bamboo is used in place of ravinala, the long pounded sheets are often woven together to create walls with a checker-like pattern.\n\nThese traditional homes have no chimney. Their floor is covered in a woven mat with stones heaped in one corner where wood fires can be burnt to cook food; the smoke that accumulates blackens the ceiling and interior walls over time. The doorways of these homes were traditionally left open or could be shut by a woven screen held closed with a leather strap; today the entryway is frequently hung with a fabric curtain. Variations on this basic template can be found in all coastal regions using locally available material. The largest of the traditional coastal houses are found in the southeast among the Antemoro, Tanala and Antefasy peoples, where homes can reach 18' long, 9' wide and 15' high. Elsewhere along the coast homes are much smaller, averaging 10' long, 8' wide and 9' high.\n\n It is believed that wood construction was formerly common in many parts of Madagascar but it has all but disappeared due to deforestation. This is especially true in the Highlands where, until recently, wood had been a building material reserved for the aristocratic class due to its increasing rarity, leaving the lower classes to construct in other locally available materials such as reeds and grasses; sticks and branches are occasionally used where available, creating sporadic villages of wood typically within proximity to forest reserves. While the wooden architectural tradition among the aristocracy of the Merina has died out, at least two ethnic groups can be said to have a continuing tradition of plank wood architecture: the Zafimaniry in the central Highlands, and the Antandroy in the far south. Each of these three traditions is described below.\n\nAmong the Merina of the central Highlands, the Temanambondro (Antaisaka) people of the southeastern Manambondro region, and several other ethnic groups, deforestation rendered wood a valuable construction material only to be used by aristocrats. Indeed, its traditional association with the royal \"andriana\" class led King Andrianampoinimerina (1787–1810) to issue a royal edict forbidding construction in stone, brick or earth within the limits of Antananarivo and codifying a tradition in which only the houses of nobles were constructed from wood, while those of peasants were made from local plant materials. This tradition historically existed among a number of ethnic groups in Madagascar, particularly along the eastern coast where the preservation of rainforests continues to facilitate access to wood for construction.\n\nTraditional peasants' houses throughout Imerina featured a thick central pillar (\"andry\") that supported the roof beam and a smaller upright beam at each corner extending into the ground to stabilize the structure. Unlike most coastal houses, Highland homes have never been raised on stilts but have always sat flush to the ground. To the south of the central pillar, in the area designated for sleeping and cooking, wooden or bamboo planks were occasionally installed for flooring, or woven mats were laid on the packed earth floor, which extended north past the pillar. Traditionally, the bed of the head of the family was in the southeast corner of the house. The northern area was distinguished by the hearth, delineated by three oblong stones set vertically into the ground. Houses and tombs were aligned on a north-south axis with the entrance on the west face. The north portion of the house was reserved for males and guests, while the south was for women, children and those of inferior rank. The northeast corner was sacred, reserved for prayer and offerings of tribute to the ancestors.\n\nThe houses of the nobles were constructed according to these same cultural norms, with several additions. They were distinguishable from the outside by their walls made of upright wooden planks and the long wooden horns (\"tandrotrano\") formed by the crossing of the roof beams at each end of the roof peak. The length of the \"tandrotrano\" was indicative of rank: the longer the length, the higher the status of the noble family that lived within. The interior of the building was also somewhat modified, often featuring three central pillars rather than one and occasionally a wooden platform bed raised high off the ground.\n\nAfter Andrianampoinimerina's edicts regarding construction materials in the capital were revoked in the late 1860s, wooden construction was all but abandoned in Imerina and older wooden houses were rapidly replaced with new brick homes inspired by LMS missionaries' British-style dwellings. The \"tandrotrano\" horns were gradually replaced by a simple decorative finial installed at the two ends of the roof peak. Other architectural norms such as the north-south orientation, central pillar and interior layout of homes were abandoned, and the presence of finials on roof peaks is no longer indicative of a particular social class. Classic examples of Highland wooden architecture of the aristocratic class were preserved in the buildings of the Rova compound of Antananarivo (destroyed in a fire in 1995 but under reconstruction) and the walled compound at Ambohimanga, location of the wooden palaces of King Andrianampoinimerina and Queen Ranavalona I. Ambohimanga, arguably the most culturally significant remaining example of the wooden architecture of the Highlands aristocracy, was named a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2001.\n\nThe Zafimaniry inhabit the heavily forested, rainy and temperate region of the Highlands to the east of Ambositra. Their homes are rectangular and large (15' long, 12' wide and 18' high) with a peaked roof, overhanging eaves, and wooden windows and doors. Many of the same standards found in the aristocratic architectural traditions of Imerina are present in the Zafimaniry structures, including the central wooden pillar supporting the roof beam, exclusive use of a tongue and groove joining technique and the orientation of building features such as windows, doors and the interior layout. Zafimaniry houses are often elaborately decorated with carved, symmetrical, abstract patterns that are rich in complex spiritual and mythological symbolism. The architecture of the houses found in this region are considered to be representative of the architectural style that predominated throughout the Highlands prior to deforestation, and as such, they represent the last vestiges of a historic tradition and a significant element of Malagasy cultural heritage. For this reason, the woodcrafting knowledge of the Zafimaniry was added in 2003 to the UNESCO list of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.\n\nBy contrast, the Antandroy inhabit the Madagascar spiny thickets, an extremely dry and hot region in the south of Madagascar where unique forms of drought-resistant plants have evolved and thrived. Their homes are traditionally square (not rectangular), raised on low stilts, topped with a peaked roof and constructed of vertically-hung planks of wood affixed to a wooden frame. These homes traditionally had no windows and featured three wooden doors: the front door was the women's entrance, the door at the rear of the house was for children, and the third door was used by the men. Fences are often constructed around Antandroy houses using prickly-pear cactus (\"raketa\") or lengths of indigenous succulents from the surrounding spiny forests.\n\nIn the central Highlands, power struggles between the Merina and vazimba principalities and later amongst Merina principalities over the centuries inspired the development of the fortified town in Imerina, the central region of the Highlands of Madagascar. The first of these, the ancient Imerina capital of Alasora, was fortified by 16th-century king Andriamanelo, who surrounded the town with thick cob walls (\"tamboho,\" made from the mud and dry rice stalks gathered from nearby paddies) and deep trenches (\"hadivory\") to protect the dwellings inside. The entryway through the town wall was protected by an enormous stone disk (\"vavahady\") – five feet in diameter or more – shaded by fig trees (\"aviavy\") symbolic of royalty. The town gate was opened by laboriously rolling the \"vavahady\" away from the entryway each morning and back into place again in the evening, a task that required a team of men to accomplish it. This fortified town model was adopted throughout Imerina and is well represented at the historic village of Ambohimanga.\n\n Protestant Missionary James Cameron of the London Missionary Society is believed to have been the first in Madagascar to demonstrate how local cob building material could be used to create sun-dried bricks in 1826. In 1831, Jean Laborde introduced brick roof tiles that soon began replacing rice stalk thatch in Antananarivo and the surrounding areas, and disseminated the technique of using a kiln to bake bricks.\n\nForeigners were responsible for several architectural innovations that blended the traditions of Highlands architecture with European sensibilities. In 1819, Louis Gros designed the Tranovola for Radama I in the Rova complex, introducing the wraparound veranda supported by exterior columns. Jean Laborde designed the Queen's Palace in the Rova (built 1839–1841) using this same model on an even grander scale by enlarging the building and adding a third-story veranda. The new wooden buildings constructed by Gros and Laborde transformed the \"tandrotrano\" of traditional aristocratic Merina homes into the a decoratively carved post affixed at each end of the gable peak.\n\nIn 1867, restrictions were relaxed on the aristocracy's use of stone and brick as building materials, before all restrictions on construction were abolished in 1869 by Queen Ranavalona II, who had already commissioned Jean Laborde in 1860 to encase the exterior of her wooden palace at the Rova in stone. The building took its final form in 1872 after James Cameron added stone towers to each corner of the palace. The queen converted to Christianity in 1869 and that same year the London Missionary Society commissioned James Cameron to construct a private home for its missionaries. He drew his inspiration from the work of Gros and Laborde to develop a multi-story wooden house with veranda and columns. This model exploded in popularity throughout Antananarivo and surrounding areas as an architectural style for the aristocracy, who had to that point continued to inhabit simple homes similar to the wooden palace of Andrianampoinimerina at Ambohimanga. These newly favored brick houses often featured shortened \"tandrotrano\" and elaborately carved verandas. These homes can naturally range in color from deep red to almost white depending on the characteristics of the earth used in its construction.\n\nOver time, and particularly with the colonization of Madagascar by the French, these earthen houses (known as \"trano gasy\" – \"Malagasy house\") underwent constant evolution. The simplest form of earthen house is one or more stories tall, rectangular, and features a thatched roof with slightly overhanging eaves to direct rain away from the foundation and thereby prevent its erosion. Wealthier families replace the thatch with clay roofing tiles and construct a veranda on the west face of the building supported by four slender equidistant columns; this design is even more effective at protecting the building's foundations from the eroding effects of rainfall. Further expansion often entails the enclosure of the western veranda in wood and the construction of an open veranda on the eastern face of the building, and so forth, leading to wrap-around verandas, the connection of two separate buildings with a covered passage, the incorporation of French wrought-iron grills or glass panels into verandas, the application of painted concrete over the brick surface and other innovations. In suburban and rural zones, the ground floor of the \"trano gasy\" is often reserved as a pen for livestock, while the family inhabits the upper floors. The entrance typically faces west; the kitchen is often to the south, while the family sleeps in the northern part of the building. This configuration is consistent with that seen in the traditional Zafimaniry houses and reflects traditional cosmology.\nOn the eastern side of Madagascar, there is virtually no zone of transition between the earthen houses of the Highlands and the dwellings made of plant materials common to the coastal regions. In the vast and sparsely populated expanses between the Highlands and the western coastal areas, however, inhabitants utilize locally available materials to construct dwellings that bear features of both regions. Most often houses are small – one room and only one story high – constructed of a skeleton of horizontally arranged sticks affixed to the wooden house frame as pictured in the preceding section on wooden construction. But unlike coastal homes where this stick skeleton would serve as a base for affixing plant material to form walls, earthen cob may be packed into the framework instead. The roof is thatched to complete the dwelling. These intermediary houses are also often distinguished by the presence of shortened Highlands-style wooden columns on the western face to support the elongated eave of the peaked roof, much as they support the verandas of the larger homes of Imerina. The floor is typically packed dirt and may be covered with woven mats of grasses or raffia.\n\nAccording to the traditional beliefs of many Malagasy ethnic groups, one attains the status of \"ancestor\" after death. It is often believed that ancestors continue to watch over and shape events on Earth and can intervene on behalf of (or interfere with) the living. As a consequence, ancestors are to be revered: prayers and sacrifices to honor or appease them are common, as well as the observation of the local \"fady\" (taboos) the ancestors may have established in life. Gestures of respect, such as throwing the first capful of a new bottle of rum into the northeast corner of the room to share it with the ancestors, are practiced throughout the island. The most visible emblem of the respect due to ancestors is the construction of the elaborate family tombs that dot the countryside in much of Madagascar.\n\nTraditionally, the majority of Malagasy ethnic groups did not construct solid tombs for their dead. Rather, the bodies of the deceased were left in a designated natural area to decompose. Among the Bara people of the southern arid plains, for instance, tombs may be built into natural features such as rock outcroppings or hillsides by placing the bodies within and partially or entirely sealing the space with stacked stones or zebu skulls. Alternately, among the Tanala, the deceased may be placed in coffins made from hollowed-out logs and left in caves or a sacred grove of trees, sometimes covered over by wooden planks held down by small piles of stones. It is said the Vazimba, the earliest inhabitants of Madagascar, submerged their dead in the waters of a designated bog, river, lake or estuary, which was thereby considered sacred for that purpose. The practice also existed among the earliest Merina, who submerged their dead chiefs in canoes into Highland bogs or other designated waters. Where tombs were built, minor variation in form and placement from one ethnic group to the next is overshadowed by common features: the structure is partially or fully subterranean, typically rectangular in design and made of stone that is either stacked loosely or cemented with masonry. Among the Merina and Betsileo, some early stone tombs and burial sites were indicated by upright, unmarked standing stones.\n\nThe earliest known rectangular stone tombs on Madagascar were most likely built by Arab settlers around the 14th century in the northwestern part of the island. Similar models emerged later among western (i.e. Sakalava, Mahafaly) and highlands (i.e. Merina, Betsileo) peoples, first using unhewn stones and heaped or packed earth before transitioning toward masonry. In the Highlands, the transition to masonry was preceded by the construction of tombs from massive stone slabs collectively hauled by community members to the tomb site. Late 18th century Merina king Andrianampoinimerina is said to have encouraged the construction of such tombs, observing \"A house is for a lifetime but a tomb is for eternity.\"\n\nIn the Highlands of Imerina, the above-ground entrances of ancient tombs were originally marked by standing stones and the walls were formed of loosely stacked flat stones. Examples of these ancient tombs can be found at some of the twelve sacred hills of Imerina. Where a body was not able to be retrieved for burial (as in times of war), a tall, unmarked standing stone (\"vatolahy\", or \"male stone\") was sometimes traditionally erected in memory of the deceased.\nAndrianampoinimerina promoted more elaborate and costly tomb construction as a worthy expense for honoring one's ancestors. He also declared that the highest Merina \"andriana\" (noble) sub-castes would enjoy the privilege of constructing a small house on top of a tomb to distinguish them from the tombs of lower castes. The two highest \"andriana\" sub-castes, the \"Zanakandriana\" and the \"Zazamarolahy\", built tomb houses called \"trano masina\" (\"sacred house\"), while the tomb houses of the \"Andriamasinavalona\" were called \"trano manara\" (\"cold house\"). These houses were identical to standard wooden nobles' houses except for the fact that they had no windows and no hearth. While the lamba-wrapped remains were laid to rest on stone slabs in the tomb below, the deceased's valuable possessions such as gold and silver coins, elegant silk lambas, decorative objects and more were placed in the \"trano masina\" or \"trano manara\", which was often decorated much like a regular room with comfortable furniture and refreshments such as rum and water for the deceased's spirit to enjoy. The \"trano masina\" of King Radama I, which burned with other structures in the 1995 fire at the Rova palace compound in Antananarivo, was said to be the richest known.\n\nToday, tombs may be constructed using traditional methods and materials or incorporate modern innovations such as concrete.\nInside, superimposed slabs of stone or concrete line the walls. The bodies of the ancestors of an individual family are wrapped in silk shrouds and laid to sleep on these slabs. Among the Merina, Betsileo and Tsihanaka, the remains are periodically removed for the famadihana, a celebration in honor of the ancestors, wherein the remains are re-wrapped in fresh shrouds amid extravagant communal festivities before being once again laid to rest in the tomb. The significant expense associated with tomb construction, funerals and reburial ceremonies honors the ancestors even as it counters the emergence of unequal wealth distribution in traditional communities.\nThe tombs found in the southwest of Madagascar are among the most striking and distinctive. Like those in the Highlands they are generally rectangular and partially subterranean; modern tombs may incorporate concrete in addition to (or in place of) traditional stone. They are distinguished from Highlands tombs by their elaborate decoration: images may be painted on the exterior of the tomb, recalling events in an ancestor's life.\nThe roof of the tomb may be stacked with the horns of zebu sacrificed in the ancestor's honor at their funeral, and numerous aloalo—wooden funerary posts carved with symbolic patterns or images representing events in the life of the deceased—may be planted on top. The tombs of the Mahafaly people are especially famed for this type of construction. Among the Sakalava of the western coast, aloalo may be topped with erotic carvings evocative of the cycle of birth, life and death.\n\nForeign architectural influences, having arisen through increased European contact over the course of the 19th century, intensified dramatically with the advent of French colonization in 1896. Over the past several decades, the increasing availability of relatively inexpensive modern construction materials imported from China and elsewhere has further reinforced a growing trend in urban areas away from traditional architectural styles in favor of more durable but generic structures using industrially produced materials such as concrete and sheet metal. Certain modern innovations may be more highly esteemed than others. In the Manambondro region, for instance, corrugated sheet metal roofing was typically the least expensive and prestigious and most common addition to a traditional house. The replacement of locally sourced wood frames with factory-milled lumber was the next most common house modification, followed by the laying of a concrete foundation. Houses built entirely of concrete with glass windows and imported decorative balcony railings and window bars implied great wealth and the highest social status. Although low income levels have served to preserve traditional construction among the majority of the population of Madagascar, due to the prestige associated with modern architectural innovations, traditional construction is often abandoned as income increases.\n\nA limited number of recently constructed homes in Antananarivo attempt to blend Malagasy architectural traditions with the comforts of modern house construction. These hybrids resemble traditional brick Highlands houses from the exterior, but use modern materials and construction techniques to efficiently incorporate electricity, plumbing, air conditioning and current kitchen features in a fully contemporary interior. This innovation is exemplified in the recent residential development at \"Tana Water Front\" in the Ambodivona district of downtown Antananarivo.\n\n"}
{"id": "26755147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26755147", "title": "Aromachologist", "text": "Aromachologist\n\nAn aromachologist is a person who practices aromachology, which is a method of using smells or essential oils to create, either in isolation or through blending in formulations, essential oils that have behavioral, physical and emotional benefits. Smell is the least studied of the senses, but aromachology is being used increasingly in healthcare and building science, and also in the world of sports and in practical matters such as real estate sales.\n\nWhile all aromachologists have a refined sense of smell, some employ other senses including sight, sound and hearing. These are synesthetes and history documents famous synesthetes such as the British painter David Hockney, the Russian artist Wassily Kandinsky, the Hungarian composer Franz Liszt and the English poet William Blake.\n\nAn aromachologist is a person who studies the effects of fragrance on human psychology and behavior and works with essential oils for their positive effects on behavior and feeling. An aromachologist is a practitioner of aromachology, which is a term coined in 1982 by the Olfactory Research Fund, now known as the Sense of Smell Institute, a division of the Fragrance Foundation, which has funded numerous medical, university and individual studies on the effects of scents on sleep and performance. Aromachology differs from aromatherapy.\n\nAn aromachologist is a formulator who works with essential oils for their aromatic and physical effects and is an expert in the way essential oils can be blended and articulated together to create “behavioral fragrances” to establish the positive effects of aromas on human behavior including feelings and emotions.\n\nThe aims of aromachology are to “study the interrelationship of psychology and the latest in fragrance technology and to transmit through odor a variety of specific feelings (such as relaxation, exhilaration, sensuality, happiness and achievement) directly to the brain.\n\nWhen odors activate the olfactory pathways that lead to the limbic portion of the brain they trigger the release of neurotransmitters that affect the brain and mental state of the individual in a variety of ways. Further, stimuli transmitted to the limbic system cannot be consciously blocked and all olfactory stimuli therefore influence our emotions.\n\nSmell as a sense is the last frontier of neuroscience and has not been studied in as much depth as vision and hearing. The brain is able to process small differences in smell and the sense of smell may last longer in the aging process than sight and hearing. The olfactory bulb is that portion of the brain which processes smells information and its oscillations alter dynamically according to the tasks involved.\n\nThere are some people who process smells differently, hearing them as sounds. Canadian aromachologist, Nadine Artemis, author and formulator for Living Libations, is one such synestheste.\n\nWhen Artemis picks up a scent, she also sees colors. Therefore, when she is creating in aromachology, she is not only combining a palette of smells, she is also mixing a palette of colors to blend the purest, organic essential oils into an array of beneficial products. For example, when Artemis sniffs tainted or synthetic fragrances, she sees them as murky gray or muddy brown. Discovering this extraordinary sense of smell at a young age, Artemis sees different distillations of rose, one of the world’s most expensive essential oils, as hues and tones of pink and red. Calming chamomile comes across in hues varying from oceanic teals to deep royal blues.\n\nIt is believed that we all possess a small degree of synesthesia according to Dr Jamie Ward — quality of intermixing images, sounds and other sensations. The Russian painter Wassily Kandinsky is believed to have employed four senses of touch, smell, color and sound.\n\nThere are many instances of literature that may have portrayed synesthesia. For example, the famous poet William Blake (1757–1827) was probably a synesthete. In his poem “Wild Flower Song”, he writes: \n\nIn the book \"Perfume\" by Patrick Süskind, the main character, Grenouille, is born with a hyper-acute sense of smell but lacks his own bodily scent. He goes on a life quest, including many murders, to recreate the scent of innocence he sniffed on a beautiful girl.\n\nStudies have been conducted to show that those parts of the brain which govern alertness and concentration can be influenced positively or negatively by the olfactory substances used. Jasmine in a testing room enhanced the problem-solving cognitive skills of participants and also led to them demonstrating more interest and motivation for the task at hand. A combination of eucalyptus, peppermint oil and ethanol has been shown to improve cognitive performance, and after a monotonous stressful task experimental subjects were shown to demonstrate greater motivation after being exposed to a blend of peppermint, bergamot, sandalwood and lavender.\n\nPleasant aromas cause people to linger longer, a boon to retail stores, museums, spas and casinos. Pleasant smells have been shown to improve productivity, and improve physical performance, with athletes running faster, doing more pushups, and experiencing shorter recovery time after an extensive workout when the room was scented with either peppermint or lemon.\n\nBy blending specific smells, an aromachologist can create a more restful environment and improve health conditions. A study in 1987 showed that the smells found in nutmeg oil, maize extract, neroli oil, valerian oil, myristici, soelemcin and elemicin reduce stress in humans as well as reducing stress-related high blood pressure. The Mind Lab, an independent consultancy in the UK, studies the odor of a building as part of research on the brain’s responses to stimuli. Real estate brokers have been recommending to their clients to have smells of freshly baked cookies or the aroma of coffee in the house when it is being presented to potential buyers to create a sense of home. By bottling and releasing appropriate smells to evoke comfort, safety and joy, an owner may be able to accelerate the sale of a house.\n\nWorker productivity can be enhanced by improving the quality of air in a building, not just by removing the negative pollutants, but also by introducing through ventilation or air conditioning systems olfactory stimulation]s to get a mix of ventilated air and odor.\n\nIt is necessary to ensure that the dosage is such that the odor is not excessive and should be kept just above the detection level. Also, these olfactory substances are very different from perfume and should instead replicate the smell of natural outdoor air.\n\nA skilled aromachologist can concoct combinations of oils to reduce road rage, reduce fatigue and improve concentration while driving. Peppermint decreases anxiety and fatigue while driving, and in combination with cinnamon it reduces the level of frustration encountered in traffic and also heightens alertness.\n\nJasmine is used as a sleep aid and the scent of vanilla is useful for those who want to cut the craving for sweets after lunch.\n\n"}
{"id": "15395861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15395861", "title": "Art Interview – International Online Artist Competition", "text": "Art Interview – International Online Artist Competition\n\nThe Art Interview - International Online Artists' Competition is a quarterly international art award.\n\nSince its inception in 2004, the award has been given to many emerging artists who have become known to the general public for the first time. It has also been awarded to artists who are considered to be more established, such as Bill Wray, Marcus Antonius Jansen, and Erika Blumenfeld, whose works can be found in museums and other collections. The prize winners receive long-term publication of their winning artwork with the sponsoring online magazine (art-interview.com). The first-place winner of the award receives a published interview in Art Interview Online Magazine alongside the interviews of well-established artists such as: El Anatsui, Artists Anonymous, Jim Avignon, David Černý, Richard Estes, Janet Fish, Eric Fischl, Alex Katz, Oleg Kulik, Jesus Moroles, Sylvia Sleigh, Richard Stipl and Kehinde Wiley.\n\n"}
{"id": "5909748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5909748", "title": "Baralt Theater", "text": "Baralt Theater\n\nEl Teatro Baralt is an important Venezuelan cultural institution dating from the first half of the 19th century, and headquartered in downtown Maracaibo, at the north-western corner of Plaza Bolivar, at the intersection of the streets Urdaneta and Venezuela. Its famous home, today's Baralt Theater (Teatro Baralt) has undergone a long history of constructions.\n\nConstruction of the theater started in 1839 on the property donated by wealthy landowner, don Miguel Antonio Baralt, son of don Ignacio Baralt y Torres – founder of that lineage in Venezuela – and father in turn of one of the glories of Venezuela's literary world: the famed author Rafael María Baralt. With subsequent additional help from the \"Society of Industrialists\", under the presidency of José Montaña Arrieta, a decree was emitted by that society on December 5 of 1845, committing the amount of 3,000 pesos for the construction of a more permanent structure within the property of don Miguel. This first structure, operating between the 1840s and 1870s, was known as Baralt's Theater (or Teatro \"de\" Baralt), following a custom dating from decades before, when don Miguel used to lend his parcel of land between Urdaneta and Venezuela for impromptu theatrical performances using a temporarily built stage. As such, this location had been associated with theatrical performances since the early parts of the 19th century and the informal denomination, \"el Teatro de Baralt\" (after don Miguel), stuck until that time when his donation of land to the city allowed for the construction of an even grander venue.\n\nThis occurred on July 28, 1877, when general Rafael Parra, then President of the State of Zulia (the equivalent of today's modern title of Governor), ordered the demolition of the old theater and construction of the new, proceeding to place the first stone of the new complex on October 7 of the same year. The new building, in neo-classical style, was finished on time for a spectacular inauguration made to coincide with the centennial of Simon Bolivar's birth in 1883, being rechristened Teatro Baralt in honor of don Miguel's son ... that famous man of letters mentioned above. A Spartan building, built in the same spirit of the classical productions it had the good fortune to host, it remained a favorite of Maracaibo's elite until its demolition in 1928 at the orders of Vicente Pérez Soto, then Governor of the State, to be replaced by a design by the architect León Jerónimo Hoet – opening its doors on December 19, 1932.\n\nOn November 1981, Baralt Theater joined the list of Venezuela's National Monuments; often a first step in the arduous and very selective process of becoming a World Heritage Site. After an extensive and expert restoration, the theater reopened its doors in 1998 regaling the urban landscape with yet another architectural jewel, one which remains a treasured Venezuelan institution to this day.\n\nRenacer de sueños – La historia del Teatro Baralt.\nType: Documentary; sponsored by URBE, Universidad Rafael Belloso Chacín. Alejandro Arteaga Jurado, dir.\nConsultants: Zaida Gotera de Prado, presidenta Fundacion Teatro Baralt; Mgs. Nereida Petit, arquitecta historiadora; Aleksie Garcia, Coordinator of Centro Rafael Urdaneta.\nAdditional Sponsors, Fototeca Arturo Lares Baralt, photography; Fundacion Teatro Baralt, et al.\n\n"}
{"id": "41711059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41711059", "title": "Belvedere Apartments (Columbia, Missouri)", "text": "Belvedere Apartments (Columbia, Missouri)\n\nBelvedere Apartments is a well-preserved Spanish Colonial Revival-style apartment building located at 206 Hitt Street in downtown Columbia, Missouri. Built in 1927, the building was designed by notable architect, Nelle Peters. The building was added to Columbia's Notable Buildings List in 2008 and is a possible candidate for the National Register of Historic Places.\nAs of 2014, the apartments are being rented by private owners.\n"}
{"id": "1069085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1069085", "title": "Breeches role", "text": "Breeches role\n\nA breeches role (also pants role or trouser role, \"travesti\" or \"Hosenrolle\") is a role in which an actress appears in male clothing. Breeches (, also \"britches\"), tight-fitting knee-length pants, were the standard male garment at the time breeches roles were introduced. \n\nIn opera it also refers to any male character that is sung and acted by a female singer. Most often the character is an adolescent or a very young man, sung by a mezzo-soprano or contralto. The operatic concept assumes that the character is male, and the audience accepts him as such, even knowing that the actor is not. Cross-dressing female characters (e.g., Leonore in \"Fidelio\" or Gilda in Act III of \"Rigoletto\") are not considered breeches roles. The most frequently performed breeches roles are Cherubino (\"The Marriage of Figaro\"), Octavian (\"Der Rosenkavalier)\", Hansel (\"Hansel und Gretel\") and Orpheus (\"Orpheus and Euridice\"), though the latter was originally written for a male singer, first a castrato and later, in the revised French version, an haute-contre.\n\nBecause non-musical stage plays generally have no requirements for vocal range, they do not usually contain breeches roles in the same sense as opera. Some plays do have male roles that were written for adult female actors, and (for other practical reasons) are usually played by women (e.g., \"Peter Pan\"); these could be considered modern-era breeches roles. However, in most cases, the choice of a female actor to play a male character is made at the production level; Hamlet is not a breeches role, but Sarah Bernhardt once played Hamlet \"as\" a breeches role. When a play is spoken of as \"containing\" a breeches role, this \"does\" mean a role where a female character pretends to be a man and uses male clothing as a disguise.\n\nWhen the London theatres re-opened in 1660, the first professional actresses appeared on the public stage, replacing the boys in dresses of the Shakespeare era. To see real women speak the risqué dialogue of Restoration comedy and show off their bodies on stage was a great novelty, and soon the even greater sensation was introduced of women wearing male clothes on stage. Out of some 375 plays produced on the London stage between 1660 and 1700, it has been calculated that 89, nearly a quarter, contained one or more roles for actresses in male clothes (see Howe). Practically every Restoration actress appeared in trousers at some time, and breeches roles would even be inserted gratuitously in revivals of older plays.\n\nSome critics, such as Jacqueline Pearson, have argued that these cross-dressing roles subvert conventional gender roles by allowing women to imitate the roistering and sexually aggressive behaviour of male Restoration rakes, but Elizabeth Howe has objected in a detailed study that the male disguise was \"little more than yet another means of displaying the actress as a sexual object\". The epilogue to Thomas Southerne's \"Sir Anthony Love\" (1690) suggests that it does not much matter if the play is dull, as long as the audience can glimpse the legs of the famous \"breeches\" actress Susanna Mountfort (also known as Susanna Verbruggen):\n\nKatharine Eisaman Maus also argues that as well as revealing the female legs and buttocks, the breeches role frequently contained a revelation scene where the character not only unpins her hair but as often reveals a breast as well. This is evidenced in the portraits of many of these actresses of the Restoration.\n\nBreeches roles remained an attraction on the British stage for centuries, but their fascination gradually declined as the difference in real-life male and female clothing became less extreme. They played a part in Victorian burlesque and are traditional for the principal boy in pantomime.\n\nHistorically, the list of roles that are considered to be breeches roles is constantly changing, depending on the tastes of the opera-going public. In early Italian opera, many leading operatic roles were assigned to a castrato, a male castrated before puberty with a very strong and high voice. As the practice of castrating boy singers faded, composers created heroic male roles in the mezzo-soprano range, where singers such as Marietta Alboni and Rosamunda Pisaroni specialised in such roles. (See \"Xerxes\" below.)\n\nCurrently, many castrato roles are being reclaimed by men. As the training and use of countertenors becomes more common, there are more men with these very high voices to sing these roles.\n\nCasting directors are left with choices such as whether to cast the young Prince Orlofsky in Johann Strauss II's \"Die Fledermaus\" for a woman or man; both commonly sing the role. When played by a mezzo, the prince looks like a woman, but sounds like a boy. When played by a counter-tenor, he looks like a man, but sings like a woman. This disparity is made even clearer if, as in this case, there is also spoken dialogue.\n\nThe term \"Travesty\" (from the Italian \"travesti\", disguised) applies to any roles sung by the opposite sex.\n\nA closely related term is a \"skirt role\", a female character to be played by a male singer, usually for comic or visual effect. These roles are often ugly stepsisters or very old women, and are not as common as trouser roles. As women were not allowed to sing on stage in the Papal States during the Baroque period, many female operatic roles which premiered in those areas were originally written as skirt roles for castrati (e.g. \"Mandane\" and \"Semira\" in Leonardo Vinci's Artaserse). Britten's Madwoman in \"Curlew River\" and the Cook in Prokofiev's \"The Love for Three Oranges\" are examples. The role of the witch in Humperdinck's \"Hänsel und Gretel\", although written for a mezzo-soprano is now more regularly sung by a tenor, who sings the part an octave lower. In the same opera the \"male\" roles of Hänsel, the Sandman, and the Dewman are however meant to be sung by women.\n\nOperas with breeches roles include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "362946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362946", "title": "Britt Allcroft", "text": "Britt Allcroft\n\nBritt Allcroft (born Hilary Mary Allcroft, 14 December 1943) is an English film, television and live theater producer, writer, director and voice actress. She is the creator of the children's television series \"Thomas the Tank Engine & Friends\" (later re-titled \"Thomas & Friends\"), \"Shining Time Station\" (with Rick Siggelkow) and \"Magic Adventures of Mumfie\". She wrote, co-produced and directed the film \"Thomas and the Magic Railroad\" (2000).\n\nShe was born Hilary Mary Allcroft in Worthing, England. At the age of 16, she changed her first name to Britt as her career in British radio and television gained momentum. She went on to create a succession of programmes for the BBC and ITV during the 1970s and 1980s, including \"Moon Clue Game\", \"Dance Crazy\" and \"Keepsakes\". \"Mothers By Daughters\", produced for Channel Four, was broadcast by PBS in the United States. She also worked in theatre, staging shows at the London Palladium and Drury Lane Theatres.\n\nIn 1979, while making a documentary about British steam trains, Allcroft met the Reverend Wilbert Awdry, author of \"The Railway Series\" of children's books. She said, \"It really didn't take me long to become intrigued by the characters, the relationships between them and the nostalgia they invoked.\" She told him that she wanted to bring these stories to life and made an arrangement to secure certain rights through the then publishers Kaye & Ward.\n\nIn 1980, she co-founded Britt Allcroft Railway Productions (internationally known as The Britt Allcroft Company) with her husband, television producer Angus Wright. It took Allcroft four years to raise the funding for, and create, a first series of twenty-six episodes in collaboration with director David Mitton. The first two episodes of \"Thomas the Tank Engine & Friends\", shot on 35 mm film with narration by Ringo Starr in the U.K./U.S. and music by Mike O'Donnell and Junior Campbell, were aired together for the first time on British television on 9 October 1984.\n\nThe series's success in the U K., and the merchandising campaign that Allcroft had been organising since 1983, soon led to further success in other parts of the world. In 1989, she and American producer Rick Siggelkow created \"Shining Time Station\", a live-action children's sitcom fronted by the magical character of the miniature Mr. Conductor, who introduced two \"Thomas\" stories in each half-hour programme. \"Shining Time Station\" won a number of awards and significantly increased the popularity of the \"Thomas\" media franchise in the United States. \"Shining Time Station\" lasted until 1995.\n\nAllcroft followed \"Thomas the Tank Engine & Friends\" and \"Shining Time Station\" with the cartoon-animated \"Magic Adventures of Mumfie\" in collaboration with director John Collins. Inspired by the books by Katharine Tozer, this production received critical acclaim and was seen in many parts of the world. In 2008, several years after she left her original company, Allcroft bought back the \"Mumfie\" library.\n\nAllcroft wrote and directed \"Thomas and the Magic Railroad\", a film based on the \"Thomas\" franchise that was released in 2000. She also provided the voice of the character Lady.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25009393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25009393", "title": "Cangiante", "text": "Cangiante\n\nAccording to the theory of the art historian Marcia B. Hall, which has gained considerable acceptance, cangiante is one of four modes of painting colours available to Italian High Renaissance painters, along with sfumato, chiaroscuro and \"unione\". The word itself derives from the Italian \"cangiare\" (\"to change\").\n\n\"Cangiante\" is characterized by a change in color necessitated by an original color's darkness or lightness limitation. For example, when painting shadows on a yellow object, the artist may use a red color simply because the yellow paint cannot be made dark enough. There are other methods of rendering shadows or highlights (for example, mixing the original hue with black or brown), but these can render the shadow color dull and impure. During the Renaissance, the variety and availability of paint colors were severely limited.\n\nThe greatest practitioner of the \"cangiante\" technique was Michelangelo, especially in many parts of the Sistine Chapel ceiling. For example, in the image of the prophet Daniel, a transition from green to yellow is evident in the subject's robes. After Michelangelo's time, the technique found widespread acceptance and is now a standard painting technique.\n\n"}
{"id": "905758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=905758", "title": "Culture of Lebanon", "text": "Culture of Lebanon\n\nThe culture of Lebanon and the Lebanese people emerged from various civilizations over thousands of years. It was home to the Phoenicians and was subsequently conquered and occupied by the Assyrians, the Greeks, the Romans, the Persians, the Arabs, the Crusaders, the Ottoman Turks and the French. This variety is reflected in Lebanon's diverse population, composed of different religious groups, and features in the country's festivals, musical styles, literature, cuisine of Lebanon and architecture of Lebanon. Tourism in Lebanon is popular with periods of interruption during conflict.\n\nDespite the religious and denominational diversity of the Lebanese, they “share an almost common culture”. \nBased on Article 11 of the Constitution of Lebanon states: \"Arabic is the official national language. A law determines the cases in which the French language is to be used.\" The spoken Lebanese is the language used in public which is a hybrid of the languages of the above-mentioned cultures, Food, music, and literature are deep-rooted “in wider Mediterranean and Levantine norms”.\n\nThe hilly Mediterranean Geography of Lebanon has played a role in shaping the history of Lebanon and its culture. Archaeology of Lebanon is conducted to explore the area's past.\n\nBy the turn of the 20th century, Beirut was vying with Cairo to be the major center for modern Arab thought, with many newspapers, magazines and literary societies. Additionally, Beirut became a thriving epicenter of Armenian culture with varied productions that was exported to the Armenian diaspora.\n\nMustafa Farroukh was one of Lebanon's most prominent painters of the 19th century. Formally trained in Rome and Paris, he exhibited in venues from Paris to New York to Beirut over his career.\n\nContemporary art started in Beirut immediately after the end of the civil war (1975-1991).\n\nMany contemporary artists are currently active, such as Walid Raad, a contemporary media artist currently residing in New York.\n\nTwo contemporary art exhibition centers, the Beirut Art Center and the Beirut Exhibition Center (does not exist anymore) in the BIEL area reflect the vibrant Lebanese contemporary art scene. These two centers are intended to host exhibitions and are a must in the world of international as well as local contemporary art. Many art galleries also add to the local art scene, exhibiting the works of artists such as Ayman Baalbaki, Akram Zaatari, Marwan Sahmarani, Nadim Asfar, Lamia Joreige, Jean Marc Nahas, Ricardo Mbarkho, Mansour El-Habre, Anita Toutikian and many others. These galleries are run by gallerists such as Saleh Barakat (Agial), Galerie Mark Hachem, Fadi Mogabgab, Nadine Begdache (Galerie Janine Rubeiz), Odile Mazloum (Galerie Alwane).\n\nLocated in Foch Street in the Solidere area, FFA Private Bank is home to many temporary exhibitions of contemporary local artists as well as to a permanent display of paintings by Lebanese artists (Sahmarani, Baalbaki, Hanibal Srouji ... ) or foreign artists such as Fabienne Arietti's \"Nasdaq\". A Jean Dubuffet's huge sculpture can also be seen when visiting the atrium of Bank Audi Plaza, located in a beautiful contemporary building designed by Kevin Dash. By Strolling through the streets of the city one can find some interesting works such as sculptures of Michel Basbous in the Bank of Lebanon street.\n\nAshkal Alwan, the Lebanese association for plastic arts and a platform for the creation and exchange of artistic practices. It was founded by Christine Tohmé, Marwan Rechmaoui, Rania Tabbara, Mustapha Yamout and Leila Mroueh. Initially, Ashkal Alwan promoted and introduced the work of artists who have been engaged in critical art practices within the context of post-war Lebanon. The Home Works Forum is a multidisciplinary platform that takes place in Beirut, Lebanon about every other year. it has evolved into one of the most vibrant platforms for research and exchange on cultural practices in the region and beyond.\n\nUmam Documentation & Research runs an exhibition space (The Hangar) located at Haret Hreik, in Beirut's Southern suburb with extensive events.\n\nIn the field of digital art, the artist Ricardo Mbarkho investigates the transformation of cultural industries into creative industries.\n\nIn the field of photography, the Arab Image Foundation has a collection of +4000 photographs from Lebanon and the Middle East. The photographs can be viewed in a research center and various events and publications have been produced in Lebanon and worldwide to promote the foundation.\n\nArchitecture in Lebanon includes the legacies of various occupying powers including the Romans, Phoenicians, Ottomans and French, as well as post independence developments.\n\nWhen the Ottomans exiled Fakhreddine to Tuscany, Italy in 1613, he entered an alliance with the Medicis. Upon his return to Lebanon in 1618, he began modernizing Lebanon. He developed a silk industry, upgraded olive-oil production, and brought with him numerous Italian engineers who began the construction of mansions and civil building throughout the country. The cities of Beirut and Sidon were especially built in the Italianate style.\n\nThe Italianate, specifically, Tuscan, influence on architecture in Lebanon dates back to the Renaissance when Fakhreddine, the first Lebanese ruler who truly unified Mount Lebanon with its Mediterranean coast executed an ambitious plan to develop his country.\n\nThe influence of these buildings, such as the ones in Deir el Qamar, influenced building in Lebanon for many centuries and continues to the present time. For example, streets like Rue Gouraud continues to have numerous, historic houses with Italianate influence. Buildings like the Nicolas Sursock mansion on Rue Sursock, which is today a major museum, attest to the continuous influence of Italianate architecture in Lebanon.\n\nKhalil Gibran (1883–1931), who was born in Bsharri, is particularly known for his book \"The Prophet\" (1923), which has been translated into more than twenty different languages. Several contemporary Lebanese writers have also achieved international success; including Elias Khoury, Amin Maalouf, Hanan al-Shaykh, and Georges Schehadé.\n\nMusic is pervasive in Lebanese society. While traditional folk music remains popular in Lebanon, modern music reconciling Western and traditional Arabic styles, pop, and fusion are rapidly advancing in popularity. Radio stations feature a variety of music, including traditional Lebanese, classical Arabic, Armenian and modern French, English, American, and Latin tunes. Prominent traditional musicians include Fairuz, an icon during the civil war, Sabah Melhem Barakat, Wadih El Safi, Majida El Roumi, and Najwa Karam who built an international audience for the genre. Historical figure and Lebanese musical pioneer Lydia Canaan is listed in the catalog of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum's Library and Archives in Cleveland, Ohio, USA as the first rock star of the Middle East. Canaan's unique style fuses Middle-Eastern quarter notes and microtones with anglophone rock. Marcel Khalife, a musician who blends classical Arab music with modern sounds, boasts immense popularity for his politically charged lyrics. Distinguished pop artists include Nancy Ajram, Haifa Wehbe, Fadl Shaker, Elissa, and Mika.\n\nAccording to the World Intellectual Property Organization, Lebanon's music industry is growing and could attain leading status in the region. Lebanese performers are celebrated throughout the Arab World, and with the notable exception of Egypt enjoy increasing regional popularity. Rising demand for Arabic music outside Western Asia has provided Lebanese artists with a small but significant global audience. However, widespread piracy continues to inhibit the music industry's growth.\n\nLebanon is not only a regional center of media production but also the most liberal and free in the Arab world. According to Press freedom's Reporters Without Borders, \"the media have more freedom in Lebanon than in any other Arab country\". Despite its small population and geographic size, Lebanon plays an influential role in the production of information in the Arab world and is \"at the core of a regional media network with global implications\".\n\nAfter independence, Beirut emerged as the epicenter of publishing in the Arab world, characterized by free and liberal media and literary scenes. Lebanon's press became a huge industry despite the country's small size and has remained a haven for Arabic publishing. The establishment of modern printing presses and sophisticated book distribution channels made Beirut a regional publishing leader, and gave the Lebanese publishers a dominant role in Arab publishing. Lebanon hosts annually two important regional publishing events, the Beirut Book Fair and the Beirut Francophone Book Fair.\n\nTelevision in Lebanon was introduced in 1959, with the launch of two privately owned stations, CLT and Télé Orient that merged in 1967 into Télé Liban. Lebanon has ten national television channels, with most being affiliated or supported by certain political parties or alliances.\n\nLebanon was one of the first countries in the Arabic-speaking world to introduce internet. Lebanese Photographers like Said Mhamad have become popular all across world because of Internet and social media. Beirut's newspapers were the first in the region to provide readers with web versions of their newspapers. By 1986, three newspapers from Lebanon were online, \"Al Anwar\", \"Annahar\", and \"Assafir\", and by 2000, more than 200 websites provided news out of Lebanon.\n\nCinema of Lebanon, according to film critic and historian, Roy Armes, was the only other cinema in the Arabic-speaking region, beside Egypt's, that could amount to a national cinema. Cinema in Lebanon has been in existence since the 1920s, and the country has produced over 500 films, some of which are:\n\nLebanese theatre has its origin in passion plays. The musical plays of Maroun Naccache from the mid-1800s are considered the birth of modern Arab theatre. Some scholars like Abdulatif Shararah divided theatre in Lebanon into three phases: translations of European plays, Arab nationalism, and realism.\n\nThe cultural relations between Lebanon and Egypt is considered a unique kind of cultural historical relations, Because there is a considerable overlap between the Lebanese and Egyptian cultures, especially in the fields of literature, theater, cinema and journalism, all of them played an integral role towards each other especially in theater, cinema and journalism, that's what was confirmed by the Conference Egypt in the eyes of the Lebanese and which is Within the activities of the cultural program Egypt in the eyes of the World . Which is held at the headquarters of the Egyptian Ministry of Tourism, and in the presence of the Lebanese Ambassador in Egypt, Madeleine Tabar and Ahmed Ghanem founder of cultural program Egypt in the eyes of the World and an elite of Lebanese artists.\n\nMany Christians and most Muslims who live in the cities wear European style clothes. In the countryside, women sometimes wear traditional colorful skirts and men wear a traditional sherwal (baggy trousers). Dress was historically Ottoman, but remains only as part of the folk culture. Today, almost all Lebanese wear Western clothing.\n\nFamous names in the Lebanese fashion industry include Elie Saab, Zuhair Murad, Reem Acra, and Rabih Kayrouz.\n\nLebanon celebrates national holidays and both Christian and Muslim holidays.\n\nChristian holidays are celebrated following both the Gregorian Calendar and Julian Calendar. Maronites, Greek Orthodox, Catholics, Protestant, and Melkite Christians follow the Gregorian Calendar and thus celebrate Christmas on 25 December. Armenian Orthodox Christians celebrate Christmas on 6 January, as they follow the Julian Calendar.\n\nMuslim holidays are followed based on the Islamic lunar calendar. Muslim holidays that are celebrated include Eid al-Fitr (the three-day feast at the end of the Ramadan month), Eid al-Adha (The Feast of the Sacrifice) which is celebrated during the annual pilgrimage to Mecca and also celebrates Abraham’s willingness to sacrifice his son to God, the Birth of the Prophet Muhammad, and Ashura. Lebanon's National Holidays include Workers Day, Independence day, and Martyrs Day.\n\nMusic festivals, often hosted at historical sites, are a customary element of Lebanese culture. Among the most famous are Baalbeck International Festival, Byblos International Festival, Beiteddine International Festival, Broumana Festival, Batroun Festival, Dhour Chwer Festival and Tyr Festival. These festivals are promoted by Lebanon's Ministry of Tourism, Lebanon Hosts about 15 Concerts from International Performers Each Year Ranking Number one for Nightlife in the Middle east and 6th Worldwide.\n\nLebanese cuisine is similar to those of many countries in the Eastern Mediterranean, such as Syria, Turkey, Greece, and Cyprus.\n\nThe Lebanese national dishes are the kibbe, a meat pie made from finely minced lamb and burghul (cracked wheat), and the tabbouleh, a salad made from parsley, tomatoes, and burghul. The national beverage is arak, a strong anise-flavored liquor made from fermented grape juice. It is usually drunk with water and ice, which turns the clear liquid milky-white, and usually accompanies food. Arak is a strong spirit similar to the Greek ouzo and the Turkish raki.\n\nLebanese restaurant meals begin with a wide array of mezze - small savoury dishes, such as dips, salads, and pastries. The mezze are typically followed by a selection of grilled meat or fish. In general, meals are finished with Arabic coffee and fresh fruit, though sometimes a selection of traditional sweets will be offered as well.\n\nM'Juhdara, a thick stew of onions, rice, and lentils, is sometimes considered poor man's fare and is often eaten around Lent by people in the Lebanese diaspora.\n\nBeirut and its environs contain many restaurants of various national origins. At the same time, wine is growing in popularity and a number of vineyards currently exist in the Bekaa valley and elsewhere. Beer is also highly popular and Lebanon produces a number of local beers, of which almaza is perhaps the most popular.\n\nLebanese cuisine is influenced by other Mediterranean cuisines. Pita bread is a staple. The Lebanese enjoy hummus (a chick pea dip), fool (a fava bean dip), and other bean dishes. Rice is nearly a staple, and pasta is very popular. Salted yogurt is common in many dishes. Red meat and chicken are common but are usually eaten as part of a dish. Eating in Lebanon is tied to family: people almost never eat alone. The Lebanese consider eating out a social and almost aesthetic experience. During Lent, Christians eat meatless dishes and at Saint Barbara, they eat a variety of wheat-based dishes. Lebanon sells fruits and vegetables to neighboring Arab countries, as well as to Italy, France, and the United States. Wine is produced in the Bekaa and exported to France.\n\nLebanese society is similar to certain cultures of Mediterranean Europe as the country is \"linked ideologically and culturally to Europe through France, and its uniquely diverse religious composition [create] a rare environment that [is] at once Arab and European. It is often considered as Europe's gateway to Western Asia as well as Asia's gateway to the Western World.\n\nMixed-sex groups of youth are very common especially in Verdun, Hamra Street, Ashrafieh, and downtown Beirut as well as other places. Premarital physical sexual relations are very common, although intercourse is frowned upon and avoided by both Muslim and Christian girls.\n\nThe contraceptive prevalence rate is estimated at 58%, of which 34% modern contraceptives, primarily IUDs, pills and condoms. Prostitution in Lebanon is nominally legal.\n\nBy comparison to most other Arab capitals, Beirut is more westernized and more culturally liberal. Compared to Damascus, Cairo, and Baghdad, and especially in contrast to such cities as Riyadh, Beirut is more tolerant with regard to relations between men and women, and also with regard to homosexuality.\n\nNotwithstanding the persistence of traditional attitudes regarding the role of women, Lebanese women enjoy equal civil rights and attend institutions of higher education in large numbers (for example, women constituted 41 percent of the student body at the American University of Beirut in 1983). Although women in Lebanon have their own organizations, most exist as subordinate branches of the political parties.\n\nWhile gay sex does not enjoy wide acceptance, Beirut has a number of gay bars and nightclubs, in addition to five LGBT rights organizations, namely Helem, Arab Foundation for Equality (AFE), Nasawiya-Feminist Collecrive, Proud Lebanon, and Mosaïque. \n\nIn 2009, the country hosted the Winter Asian Games, which took place in the capital, Beirut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1343245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343245", "title": "Fanny (1961 film)", "text": "Fanny (1961 film)\n\nFanny is a 1961 American Technicolor drama film directed by Joshua Logan. The screenplay by Julius J. Epstein is based on the book for the 1954 stage musical of the same title by Logan and S.N. Behrman, which in turn had been adapted from Marcel Pagnol's trilogy: \"Marius\" (1929) and \"Fanny\" (1932), plays which he adapted to film a year or two later; and \"César,\" the film he wrote and directed for the screen in 1936 (and later adapted for the stage).\n\nThe film deleted all the songs from the 1954 stage musical, but the music by Harold Rome served as the underscore for the soundtrack, and the title tune is used as the Main Title theme. Although it had been composed for another medium, it was nominated for both the Academy Award and the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score.\n\nCésar (Charles Boyer) is a barkeeper in Marseille in the early 1920s. His 19-year-old son Marius (Horst Buchholz) works for him at his bar, but wants nothing more than to go to sea and leave his boring existence behind. The only thing holding him back is Fanny (Leslie Caron), an 18-year-old girl with whom he grew up. Fanny works selling fish with her mother down at the waterfront. Fanny has been in love with Marius her whole life, and flirts with him, but Marius always rejects her.\n\nFanny invites Marius to a Sunday night dance, but he rejects her once more. Unbeknownst to Fanny, Marius is planning to leave the next day, having secretly signed on as a sailor on a lengthy scientific expedition traveling around the world after being encouraged to do so by his friend known as the Admiral (Raymond Bussieres). Fanny is offended and leaves.\n\nMeanwhile, elderly but wealthy merchant Panisse (Maurice Chevalier) asks to meet with Fanny's mother Honorine (Georgette Anys), who believes he wants to propose to her. To her surprise, he wants to marry Fanny, even though he knows she loves someone else. Although disappointed, Honorine does not object, seeing as Panisse is worth 600,000 francs.\n\nFanny tells Marius she has rejected Panisse's proposal because she loves him and is willing to wait until he returns. Marius tells her he will be away for five years and to forget about him. They declare their love for each other and go to Fanny's house, which is empty while her mother is away.\n\nThe following morning, Honorine discovers Fanny and Marius in bed together. She and César begin to plan their children's wedding, but Fanny urges Marius to leave, even lying to him, telling him that she would rather marry a rich man like Panisse than she would him. But, in truth, she is fearful he eventually will grow to hate her for depriving him of this great opportunity.\n\nAround two months after Marius goes off to sea, Fanny discovers she is pregnant with Marius's child and tells Panisse the news. He is happy to marry her anyway, overjoyed with the possibility of a male heir to carry on his name. They marry and Fanny gives birth to a boy to whom César is godfather. César, knowing the baby's true father, collaborates with Panisse to give the baby the name Césario Marius Panisse.\n\nOn Césario's first birthday, Panisse leaves on the train to Paris on business, and while he is gone, Marius returns on a short leave. He visits Fanny, and upon learning her child is his, apologizes to Fanny, as he knows now she said those things only to make him go. Marius tells her that he wants her back, but then César comes in before anything can happen. Panisse then arrives home early and says that he will not try to stop Fanny from leaving with Marius but he will not part with the child, knowing that Fanny won't leave without the boy. Fanny tells Marius she loves him but will not take Césario from Panisse, as it was Panisse who had been there for Fanny and Césario all along. César advises his son the father is \"the one who loves,\" and Panisse loves this child and has been a wonderful father to him. Marius then departs with neither Fanny nor his child.\n\nTen years later, Césario (Joel Flateau) is looking forward to his birthday party. After being taken to the waterfront with Fanny's mother, Césario wanders off and meets the Admiral. The Admiral takes the boy sailing without telling anyone and reunites him with Marius, though Césario has no idea who Marius is. Marius, who is now working in a garage, is overjoyed to see his son, but when Panisse is told the boy is missing, he is stricken and taken to his room. Fanny finds Césario with his father and is shocked. She announces that Panisse is dying and Marius drives them home to the dying Panisse.\n\nWhen they arrive at the house, Panisse calls for Césario to sit with him, and Cesario asks to invite Marius to the birthday party. Fanny goes outside to the property entrance and joins Cesar and Marius in discussion. Marius has an opportunity to express his bitterness and plans to leave for the United States the next day. Fanny explains to Marius she never told him about the baby because on the day he left she had hoped he would turn around and not get on the boat, and when he didn't she felt betrayed and was angry. Fanny then goes to Panisse and as he lies dying, Panisse dictates a letter asking Marius to marry his wife once he is dead, and be a father to Césario; his only request being that the boy keep his last name.\n\n\nSeveral versions of the Pagnol works had been filmed prior to this adaptation. The original film trilogy in French was directed by Alexander Korda (\"Marius\", 1931), Marc Allégret (\"Fanny\", 1932) and Pagnol himself (\"César\", 1936). There was a 1933 Italian film named \"Fanny\", the 1934 German film \"Der Schwarze Walfisch\" (\"The Black Whale\"), and \"Port of Seven Seas\", a 1938 American film directed by James Whale, also based on the trilogy.\n\nJack L. Warner purchased the screen rights to the stage musical but eventually decided he wanted the film to exclude the songs because the popularity of movie musicals was on the wane. Released the same year as \"Fanny\", \"West Side Story\" proved to be a box office hit.\n\nScreenwriter Julius J. Epstein had collaborated with Joshua Logan on \"Tall Story\" the previous year, but he initially declined the director's offer to adapt \"Fanny\" for the screen because he found Marius' motivation for leaving Marseille difficult to believe. Only after Logan assured him he could take liberties with the original script did he accept the assignment. He relied on Pagnol's plays for inspiration, but retained the ending of the musical, which was quite different from the plot of Pagnol's original film \"César\".\n\nPrior to Warner's decision to film the property as a straight drama, Logan had offered Charles Boyer the role of César but the actor declined because he felt he could not sing and was unwilling to lip sync to someone else's voice. When the songs were dropped, he accepted the offer. He and Maurice Chevalier, cast as Panisse, were old friends but never had performed together, and both welcomed the opportunity to do so.\n\nAudrey Hepburn agreed to portray Fanny but eventually had to decline the role due to prior commitments. Assuming the French would dislike an English language interpretation of the Pagnol plays, Leslie Caron was hesitant to replace her, but she liked the script and accepted three weeks before principal photography began.\n\nAmong the Marseille locations used for filming were Notre-Dame de la Garde and Vieux Port.\n\nBosley Crowther of \"The New York Times\" observed, \"Whether fan of the Pagnol films or stage show, whether partial to music or no, you can't help but derive joy from this picture if you have a sense of humor and a heart. For Mr. Logan, with the aid of expert craftsmen and a cast of principals that we do not believe an act of divine cooperation could have greatly improved upon, has given the charming Marseilles folk play a stunning pictorial sweep, a deliciously atmospheric flavor and a flesh-touching intimacy. And, embraced by these graphic, sensuous virtues are the rich human, comic elements that flowed out of Pagnol's little pictures and glimmered upon the Broadway stage . . . To be sure, there are flaws in the compound. The cutting is often too abrupt, some scenes are confused by intercutting, and the tempo in the early phases is much too fast. Also, occasionally the actors are costumed too prettily, and the domestic magnificence of the Panisses in the last part is tasteless and absurd . . . [But] on the whole, the appropriate atmosphere of Marseilles is literally and colorfully conveyed — in excellent color, by the way. Perhaps there will be some prim objection to the lush emotionalism of it all and to the frankness of the musical nudging, but we loved it.\"\n\n\nImage Entertainment released the film on DVD on June 17, 2008.\nDVD RELEASE UK BY LUXIN - November 18, 2013\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17076576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17076576", "title": "Folksbiene", "text": "Folksbiene\n\nThe National Yiddish Theatre Folksbiene, commonly known as NYTF, is a professional theater company in New York City which produces both Yiddish plays and plays translated into Yiddish, in a theater equipped with simultaneous superscript translation into English. The company's leadership consists of Broadway Producer CEO Christopher Massimine and artistic director Zalmen Mlotek. The board is chaired by Jeffrey S. Wiesenfeld, principal at Bernstein Global Wealth Management.\n\nFolksbiene (Yiddish for the \"People's Stage\") was founded in 1915, under the auspices of the fraternal and Yiddish cultural organization Workmen's Circle, on New York City’s Lower East Side, as an amateur theatre group with high artistic ideals. It is the oldest consecutively producing theater company in the United States, English or Yiddish, commercial or not. The era when it was founded is considered to be the height of Yiddish theater; at the time there were 15 Yiddish theatre companies in the Yiddish Theater District in New York and many more worldwide. Due to the destruction of European Jewry by the German Nazis, the Folksbiene is one of only five professional Yiddish theatre companies still in operation; also in New York City is the New Yiddish Rep, and the others are in Bucharest, Warsaw and Tel Aviv.\n\nThe company's 2006 production of \"Di Yam Gazlonim\", a Yiddish adaptation of \"The Pirates of Penzance\", by Al Grand, was nominated for the 2007 Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Musical Revival, and their 2012/13 Off Broadway production of \"The Golden Land\" was nominated for the 2013 Drama Desk Award for outstanding Musical Revival. In the summer of 2012, Folksbiene announced their plans to create an international Festival of new works in celebration of their Centennial in 2015. A play contest accompanying the festival was juried by producer Emanuel Azenberg; the Tony Award-winning composer and songwriter Jason Robert Brown (\"Parade\"), and the playwrights Joe DiPietro (Tony Award for \"Memphis\"); Obie Award-winning Israel Horovitz, and Pulitzer Prize finalist Jon Marans (\"Old Wicked Songs\").\n\nA revival of the 1923 operetta The Golden Bride in 2015/16 drew press attention as a New York Times Theatre Critics Pick and garnered Drama Desk awards as well. The Folksbiene was a producer on the 2015/16 Broadway play \"Indecent.\"\n\nIn the Fall of 2017, the company staged a revival of Abraham Goldfadn's \"The Sorceress\" as part of their restoration project – an endeavor that will restore lost or nearly lost Yiddish works to the canon of Yiddish culture.\n\nIn late 2017, National Yiddish Theatre Folksbiene announced that it would stage the American premiere of Fiddler on the Roof in Yiddish, which has not been staged since its world premiere production in Israel more than 50 years ago. It was announced in a March 2018 issue of Forbes Magazine that Academy Award winner-and-Tony Award winner Joel Grey would direct the production. Their production \"Fidler Afn Dakh\" had its first preview on July 4, 2018. The scheduled opening performance is July 15, 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48562711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48562711", "title": "Glirarium", "text": "Glirarium\n\nA glirarium is a terracotta container used for keeping edible dormice. These animals were considered a delicacy in the Etruscan period and later in the Roman Empire.\n\nThe container consists of a vessel, usually in terracotta, perforated to allow the passage of air, polished on the inside to prevent escape and with a lid to seal the top. Inside there are two or more shelves placed against the vessel walls and additional holes in the bottom of the vessel, generally more numerous than those on the sides. By inducing hibernation via darkness and confinement, the glirarium would cause the dormouse to fatten.\n\n"}
{"id": "39229583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39229583", "title": "Gregg Bordowitz", "text": "Gregg Bordowitz\n\nGregg Bordowitz (born August 14, 1964) is a writer, artist and activist currently working as a professor in the Video, New Media, and Animation department at The School of the Art Institute of Chicago.\n\nGregg Bordowitz was born August 14, 1964 in Brooklyn, NY. In 1982, Bordowitz began his academic career at the School of Visual Arts, then studied at the Whitney Museum Independent Study Program from 1985 to 1986, and at New York University from 1986 to 1987. In 1987, Bordowitz dropped out of school to become a full-time video artist, guerilla TV director and activist with the direct action advocacy group ACT UP. During this time, Bordowitz was central to the formation of the notable video activist collective, Testing the Limits, who produced work documenting AIDS activism that were distributed through television, museums, schools and community centers. He also wrote prolifically on the topic of AIDS activism, contributing heavily to the 1987 \"AIDS: Cultural Analysis/Cultural Activism\" of the well-respected academic journal October. In 1988, Gregg Bordowitz tested positive for HIV and, as a result, came out as a homosexual man to his mother and stepfather. He left Testing the Limits (now a self-sufficient non-profit entity) to focus on a more 'guerilla' approach to documenting AIDS activism. In 1988, he met video artist Jean Carlomusto at a demonstration partnered with her to produce the Gay Men's Health Crisis (GMHC) cable TV show \"Living With AIDS\", which ran regularly until 1994. In 1989, he, along with numerous other video activists, formed DIVA (Damned Interfering Video Activists), a partner organization to ACT UP, dedicated to accurately documenting the protests organized by ACT UP and providing an alternative representation of the AIDS activist movement than the one presented by the mainstream media.\n\nIn 1993, filled with despair at the decline of AIDS activism as well as his own diminishing chances of survival, Bordowitz produces one of his most famous pieces, the documentary/montage \"Fast Trip, Long Drop\". In this video, Bordowitz addresses the public's reaction to and representation of the AIDS epidemic as well as his own fears, insecurities and struggles related to the disease. \"Fast Trip, Long Drop\" provides a pessimistic counterpoint to the flood of representations of people \"Surviving and Thriving\" with AIDS through a collage of documentary footage, staged parody and vintage film clips. For the first time in an AIDS related documentary, people with AIDS were shown addressing and coming to terms with the ever-present fact of their own mortality. As Bordowitz explains in his 1999 interview with the AIDS art forum Artery, \"When I made \"Fast Trip, Long Drop\" I was tired of pretending for the sake of others that I would survive. I became preoccupied with the burdens that sick people bear on behalf of those around them who are well. I wanted to get a handle on despair and put it out there as a political problem. To be recognized and discussed. If we couldn't do this, then it all seemed like bullshit. I wanted an honest media produced in the interests of people living with AIDS.\" The film, along with many of his other works, has been shown in film festivals, museums and on television ever since with extremely positive response.\n\nFrom there, Bordowitz continued to address AIDS in his artwork, video work and writing. He taught video art at the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna, Brown University, and School of the Art Institute of Chicago from 1995 to 2010, before being hired as a permanent professor at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. His works have been shown at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, the Whitney Museum of American Art, and the Museum of Modern Art, as well as numerous film festivals.\n\n\nIn 2009, Gregg Bordowitz began collaboration with artist Paul Chan an opera adaptation of Michel Foucault’s History of Sexuality. Though they envisioned the project as an impossible to complete, they were approached by Viennese museum curator Achim Hochdörfer, and asked to stage a performance at the MUMOK. In 2010, they staged a 6-man performance written and directed by Bordowitz.\n\n"}
{"id": "44122301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44122301", "title": "InLiquid Art + Design", "text": "InLiquid Art + Design\n\nInLiquid is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit member-based organization that provides free resources for the Philadelphia area arts community and serves to connect artists with curators, collectors, and the general public. Its website includes a local arts events calendar, employment, grant, and exhibition opportunities listings, as well as directories of arts publications, galleries, arts centers, and educational institutions.\n\nFounded in 1999 by photographer Rachel Zimmerman, InLiquid started at the artist's home in the Old City neighborhood of Philadelphia. Zimmerman, a graduate from New York University, worked to draw art collectors to Philadelphia and allow the local creative community greater visibility, with the goal of creating a sustainable arts economy.\n\nThrough hosting dialogues and exhibition series, InLiquid was an early contributor to the rejuvenation of the city’s arts scene. Today the website hosts hundreds of artist portfolios, including recognizable names like photographer Zoe Strauss, founder of the Philadelphia Public Art Project, and the artwork of internationally known jewelry designer John Wind, whose collections have been featured in O Magazine and Elle.\n\nThe organization has offices in the Crane Arts building, a warehouse-turned-art space originally built in 1906, and located at 1400 N. American Street in the Kensington neighborhood of Philadelphia. Year-round member exhibitions are held in neighborhoods throughout the city and the surrounding region. Regular InLiquid exhibition spaces include the Painted Bride Art Center in Old City, International House Philadelphia in University City, and the Sundance TV offices in New York. Past partnerships have included Gallery 543 at URBN Headquarters, the Leonard Pearlstein Gallery at Drexel University, project space de, Feast Your Eye’s Salon at Front+Palmer, Marriott Courtyard at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard, Carpenter Square, minima, Bryn Mawr Film Institute, west elm, the digital cube at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts, the media wall at Commerce Square, Spruce Street Harbor Park, James Oliver Gallery, Select Fair Miami, Select Fair New York, River's Edge Gallery at Bridgeton House, Engagement Studios, bahdeebahdu, and Old City Publishing.\n\nOther programming for the organization centers around two yearly events: the Benefit and Art for the Cash Poor. The Benefit and Silent Auction, held every February in the Crane Arts space, serves as a showcase for emerging and established visual artists as well as a fundraiser for InLiquid, with part of the proceeds going back to the artists themselves. Art for the Cash Poor, a block-party style art sale, acts as its more affordable summer counterpart every June, with all artwork priced under $200 and a goal of fostering a new audience of art collectors.\n\nIn 2013, InLiquid expanded its regular arts programming to include more community driven events and exhibitions, beginning with its \"Juvenile In Justice\" project. Juvenile In Justice was an exhibition of works by the internationally renowned photographer Richard Ross, and Philadelphia artists Roberto Lugo and Mat Tomezsko, presented at Crane Arts from November 8 through December 12, 2013. This exhibition, accompanied by extensive public programming, participated in a national conversation about the U.S. juvenile justice system and how communities, with a focus on Philadelphia, can better engage and provide critical support to youth. \"Juvenile In Justice\" won the 2014 PNC Arts Alive Award for Innovation in Honor of Peggy Amsterdam (Arts & Business Council of Greater Philadelphia) and is continuing through InLiquid’s Art For Action series.\n"}
{"id": "1568705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1568705", "title": "Jeu de l'année", "text": "Jeu de l'année\n\nThe Jeu de l'année (French for \"Game of the Year\") was a French games award, given by the \"Association de Promotion et d'Evaluation des Jeux\" in October to outstanding parlour games\nIn 2005 the Jeu de l'année merged with the As d'Or.\n\nWinner\n\nFinalists\n\nWinner\n\nFinalists\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50404517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50404517", "title": "Karin Albou", "text": "Karin Albou\n\nKarin Albou is a French director, screenwriter and actress.\n\nKarin Albou was born on in March 12, 1968 Neuilly-sur-Seine to Algerian immigrant parents. Her mother was only 16 when she was born. Albou was raised in the Jewish faith. In 1999 she moved to Tunisia to settle down for one year. She went back to Paris and started her career as a filmmaker.\nShe also started a career as a writer and published her first novel in 2010. (\"La Grande Fête\", édition Jacqueline Chambon. Translated in Italian : \"La grande festa\" Oedipus edizioni, traduzione di Maria Teresa Fiore\n\nAs a child, Karin Albou was always finding ways to be an artist; involved with dance and singing. After high school, Karin continued to study dance, but also studied Hebrew French and Arabic literature, English, drama and eventually enrolled in film school in Paris. She studied screening writing in Paris but discovered while taking classes at École Supérieure de Réalisation Audiovisuelle she wanted to be a director. After she graduated, she started her journey as a director with her first short film “Hush!” establishing the beginning of her remarkable career path. \n\nAlbou made her feature film debut in 2005 with \"Little Jerusalem\" which debuted at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival in the International Critics' Week. Despite being Albou's first feature film Albou was disqualified from competing for the Camera d'Or, awarded to the best first film playing at the festival, because she had previously directed a made-for-TV movie.\n\nIn 2008 Albou released her second feature film \"The Wedding Song\", a Holocaust drama set in Tunisia in 1942 that was loosely inspired by letters Albou's paternal grandmother had sent to her husband during the war when he was sent to a labour camp. The film played multiple Jewish festivals but failed to garner mainstream attention something Albou attributed to the many scenes of graphic nudity in the film.\nAlbou's third feature film \"My Shortest Love Affair\" was released in 2015. Albou also co-starred in the film as a woman in her 40s who becomes pregnant after a one-night stand with a former fling and who decides to try to make a go of it with the father of her future child.\n\nKarin Albou is a French-Algerian female director, writer, editor, producer and actress. Karin wrote and directed Aïd El Kebir, La petite Jérusalem (Little Jerusalem), Yasmine et la Révolution (Yasmine and the Revolution), Ma plus courte histoire d’amour (My Shortest Love Affair) – which she also produced, Le chant des mariées (The Wedding Song) and Corps de dame (Lady’s Body). \n\nShe is also an established actress, starring in her films including Ma plus courte histoire d’amour (My Shortest Love Affair) as Louisa Witz, Le chant des mariées (The Wedding Song) as Tita and Corps de dame (Lady’s Body) as a doctor. \n\nKarin Albou was the second assistant editor for director David Rozenberg’s 1994 for feature, Shortcomings (Carences).\n\nKarin Albou is a very distinct director, one of the ways to distinguish her is the themes in her films. Knowing Karin’s heritage explains some of the themes she chooses to cover. Raised in the Jewish faith, Karin's films explore the lasting trauma of the Holocaust – French colonialism, secret identity, exile, assimilation, and double diaspora. \n\nKarin explores and challenges the rules of religion and marriages. Karin directs My Shortest Love Affair with themes of love, sex and family values. Her themes involve bringing intimate scenes of female spaces, tackling sexual dysfunction in marriage and uncovering how culture impacts the idea of romance. Karin keeps these themes consistent in her films and portrays them with her unique film style. Her style focuses on the representation of women. In The Wedding Song, the film style displays a lesbian, female, and Orientalist gaze. \n\nShorts : \nPlot: In the east of Algeria, a dying father hopes to see his daughter married as the family gets ready for Aid El Kebir, the feast of the sacrifice. In the mournful atmosphere of sacrifice and Algeria in crisis, Hanifa must make a difficult choice of love. \n\nCast:\nSoria Moufakkir\nFatiha Berber\nSmaïl Mekki\nHichem Mesbah\nGenre: TV short from Combats de femme \nGenre: TV short\n\nDocumentaries : \nPlot: The documentary explores the repercussions of the Israeli-Arab conflict. Many Jews from Tunisia, a former French colony, were forced to resettle in France, leading to the transformation of Judeo-Arabic culture from Tunisia to Paris. Karin explores the group's culture shock, recalling fondly of Tunisia, but also speaking of the pain of becoming outcasts in their own land. She interviewed young Jews who are as French as they are Tunisian, where they speak about the emergence of their identity in the mosaic of contemporary France. Through these intimate relationship Karin reveals a complex experience of exile and assimilation. A pilgrimage back to Tunisia uncovers the identification of three generations of Jews who continue to feel for the country left behind. \n\nCast: Cast: Karin Albou, Moshe Chouri, Georges Nizan\nFeatures :\nPlot : After 20 years two former lovers run into each other in Paris. They spend an evening drinking wine and catching up which leads to the two sleeping together. Now Luisa is pregnant, and despite conflicts leading to repeated breakups the couple continue to work together to do the right thing for their child.\nCast and Characters :\nLuisa is a played by Karin Albou. Luisa is a gorgeous Parisienne stuck at a manuscripting job she hates working for the most condescending boss. \n\nCharles is played by Patrick Mimoun. Charles is an accomplished professor at Columbia University. At first glance he is a handsome, charming and funny man, but the fact that he made his name writing about his sexual turn ons seems to have made him a prisoner.\n\nGenre: Comedy, Drama\n\nAs an actress\n\nShorts\n\nFeatures\nWon best actress award in Bastia Film festival ArteMare\n\nThe Wedding Song was nominated for 6 awards at the 10th edition of the International Images Film Festival, Harare\n\nAl-Hossain, Haya. \"Feminist Representations in North African Cinema.\" Order No. 3449116, The George Washington University, 2011, 168 - 169. \n\nGriffin, John. \"Secret Identity, Sumptuous Film:\" The Gazette, Oct 29, 2005. \n\nLechintan, Adela A. \"Cinematic Reverberations of Historical Trauma: Women's Memories of the Holocaust and Colonialism in Contemporary French-Language Cinema.\" Order No. 3493307, (The Ohio State University, 2011), 91. https://search.proquest.com/docview/919704252?accountid=14523.\n\n\"Nazi Soldiers, Cherries and a Narcoleptic Sister: The BIFF Prize-Winners.\" The Daily Star, Oct 16, 2009. https://search.proquest.com/docview/432571584?accountid=14523.\n\nPallister, Janis and Ruth Hottell, French-speaking Women Documentarians: A Guide. (New York: Lang, 2005,) 3.\n\nSchoonover, Karl and Rosalind Galt, Queer Cinema in the World. Durham: Duke University Press, 2017. 231-36. \n\nSchwartz, Stephanie. \"Double-Diaspora in the Literature and Film of Arab Jews.\" Order No. NR98058, University of Ottawa (Canada), 2012. https://search.proquest.com/docview/1355763142?accountid=14523.\n\nWilmington Michael, Tribune, movie critic. \"'Jerusalem' Puts Cultures in Opposition to Romance ; 'La Petite Jerusalem' ***.\" Chicago Tribune, May 05, 2006. https://search.proquest.com/docview/420477406?accountid=14523.\n\nWilson, Josh. \"Love, Sex and Family Values all a Tangle in 'My Shortest Love Affair'.\" The Jewish News Weekly of Northern California : J, Jul 17, 2015. https://search.proquest.com/docview/1779870367?accountid=14523.\n\n\"Writer, Director, Actress Karin Albou in Interview.\" Interview by Sharon Adler. Aviva-Berlin. May 15, 2009. https://www.aviva-berlin.de/aviva/content_Interviews.php?id=1425092.\n\n\"École Supérieure De Réalisation Audiovisuelle.\" Wikipedia. June 30, 2018. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/École_Supérieure_de_Réalisation_Audiovisuelle.\n\n\"Karin Albou.\" IMDb. 2018. https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0016900/.\n\n\"Karin Albou.\" Wikipedia. October 04, 2018. https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karin_Albou.\n\n\"My Country Left Me.\" Jewish Film Festival. 2018. https://sfjff.org/watch-online/jfi-on-demand/my-country-left-me.\n\n\"Karin Albou.\" Adequate Agence Artistique. 2013. http://www.agence-adequat.com/fiche.cfm/190-0_323570_karin_albou.html.\n\n\"Karin Albou.\" Pyramide Films. 2010. http://inter.pyramidefilms.com/pyramidefilms-international-catalogue/karin-albou.html.\n\nZimmermann, Nayeli, Eric Van Grasdorff, and Patrick Gschwind. \"Namibian Premiere of the Tunisian/French Film \"The Wedding Song\", Directed by Karin Albou, WED, 14 March 2012, 18:30h, FNCC.\" Kwame Opoku: Blood Antiquities In Respectable Havens: Looted Benin Artefacts Donated To American Museum - AfricAvenir International. 2014. http://www.africavenir.org/news-details/article/namibian-premiere-of-the-tunisianfrench-film-the-wedding-song-directed-by-karin-albou-wed-14-m/print.html.\n\nhttps://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karin_Albou.\nhttps://www.imdb.com/name/nm0016900/\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/École_Supérieure_de_Réalisation_Audiovisuelle\nhttp://www.agence-adequat.com/fiche.cfm/190-0_323570_karin_albou.html\nhttps://www.beirutfilmfestival.org/2009-9th-edition-awards/\nhttps://jewishfilmfestivals.org/films/2015/my-shortest-love-affair/\nhttps://jewishfilmfestivals.org/festivals/2015/jerusalem-jewish-film-festival-2015/\nhttps://jewishfilmfestivals.org/festivals/2015/jewish-international-film-festival-australia-2015/\nhttps://jewishfilmfestivals.org/festivals/2015/san-francisco-jewish-film-festival-2015/\nhttps://sfjff.org/watch-online/jfi-on-demand/my-country-left-me\\\nhttp://inter.pyramidefilms.com/pyramidefilms-international-catalogue/karin-albou.html\nhttp://www.africavenir.org/news-details/article/namibian-premiere-of-the-tunisianfrench-film-the-wedding-song-directed-by-karin-albou-wed-14-m/print.html\nhttps://www.beirutfilmfestival.org/2009-9th-edition-awards/\n\n\nAlbou made her feature film debut in 2005 with \"Little Jerusalem\" which debuted at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival in the International Critics' Week. Despite being Albou's first feature film Albou was disqualified from competing for the Camera d'Or, awarded to the best first film playing at the festival, because she had previously directed a made-for-TV movie.\n\nIn 2008 Albou released her second feature film \"The Wedding Song\", a Holocaust drama set in Tunisia in 1942 that was loosely inspired by letters Albou's paternal grandmother had sent to her husband during the war when he was sent to a labour camp. The film played multiple Jewish festivals but failed to garner mainstream attention something Albou attributed to the many scenes of graphic nudity in the film.\nAlbou's third feature film \"My Shortest Love Affair\" was released in 2015. Albou also co-starred in the film as a woman in her 40s who becomes pregnant after a one-night stand with a former fling and who decides to try to make a go of it with the father of her future child.\n\nShorts : \n\nDocumentaries : \n\nFeatures :\n\nAs an actress\n\nShorts\n\nFeatures\nWon best actress award in Bastia Film festival ArteMare\n\n"}
{"id": "35368763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35368763", "title": "Kilmodan Carved Stones", "text": "Kilmodan Carved Stones\n\nThe Kilmodan Carved Stones are a group of West Highland carved grave slabs exhibited in a burial aisle within Kilmodan Churchyard, Clachan of Glendaruel, within the Cowal Peninsula, Argyll and Bute. They are in the care of Historic Scotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "43156765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43156765", "title": "Kuchi-e", "text": "Kuchi-e\n\nKuchi-e are frontispieces of books, especially woodblock printed fronticpieces for Japanese romance novels and literary magazines published from the 1890s to the 1910s.\n\nThey usually portrayed women and were bounded into the book's spine or inserted into literary magazines to give readers a sense of what type of stories were to unfold. Most Kuchi-e were woodblock prints in romance novels intended for a female audience. However, some were lithographs, and some were inserted into other types of literature. Most measured either 22 x 30 cm or 14 x 20 cm, the former being folded in thirds, and the latter being folded in half. In the kuchi-e by Mizuno Toshikata, note the two horizontal fold lines and the margin on top for binding. Artists who designed kuchi-e include Hirezaki Eiho, Ikeda Shoen, Kaburagi Kiyokata, Kajita Hanko, Mishima Shoso, Mizuno Toshikata, Odake Kokkan, Ogata Gekko, Suzuki Kason, Takeuchi Keishu, Terasaki Kogyo, Tomioka Eisen, Tsutsui Toshimine, Utagawa Kunimatsu, Watanabe Seitei, and Yamada Keichu.\n\nThe word \"kuchi-e\" (口絵) is usually translated into English as mouth (kuchi) picture (e). However, \"kuchi\" (口) may also mean opening, as it does in the compound words iri-guchi 入口 (entrance) and de-guchi 出口 (exit). In this way, the translation \"entrance picture\" more clearly communicates the intended function of a kuchi-e as a frontispiece in a literary work.\n\n"}
{"id": "43779078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43779078", "title": "Kuhn &amp; Komor", "text": "Kuhn &amp; Komor\n\nKuhn & Komor (), also known colloquially as \"K&K\", was a Hungarian multinational luxury jewelry and specialty retailer, having headquarters in Shanghai, China. K&K produced jewelry, sterling silver, china, crystal, stationery, and personal accessories. K&K was renowned in East Asia for its luxury goods, also being called the \"Asprey of Asia.\"\n\nThe Komor family was Jewish and originally came from Hungary.\n\nMoritz Montague Kuhn founded Kuhn & Co in Yokohama in 1869, a shop filled with \"Curios\", curiosities from the Far East (or souvernirs shop). Siegfried Komo, the nephew of Kuhn, came to Japan in 1887 to work for his uncle, followed by the son ok Kuhn, Arthur, who arrived in Japan in 1890. In 1894, Siegfried Komo and Arthur Kuhn founded Kuhn & Komor in Yokohama.\n\nThe company opened a shop in the Shanghai Palace Hotel in Shanghai. They later opened a shop on No. 37 Water Street (水町通り) in Yokohama. The company existed roughly until the 1930s, when the outbreak of World War II brought it to an end. \n\nItems by Kuhn & Komor receive high prices on auctions.\n"}
{"id": "50343870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50343870", "title": "List of general music articles in Rees's Cyclopaedia", "text": "List of general music articles in Rees's Cyclopaedia\n\nThe music articles in the Rees's \"Cyclopaedia\" were written by Charles Burney (1726–1814), with additional material by John Farey Sr (1766–1826), and John Farey Jr (1791–1851).The \"Cyclopædia\" was illustrated using 53 plates as well as a numerous examples of music typset within the articles.\n\nThe general musical articles list all those that are not biographical, which form a separate list. They were written mostly by Charles Burney. Others on the scientific basis of music were by John Farey Sr, and technical descriptions of some musical instruments were given by his son.\n\nIt had been Burney's intention to write a \"Dictionary of Music\", but for various reasons he never did so. In 1801 when he was aged 75 he was offered the chance of writing music articles in Rees's \"Cyclopaedia\", and this occupied him to around 1805 or '06. His fee was £1000. Burney's brief was to 'include definitions in all the languages of Europe where Music has been much cultivated, with its history, biography, Criticism and discussions'\n\nThe articles contain an enormous amount of musical information, much of which being augmented versions of what he had already published in his earlier writings In addition, he took the opportunity to add new topics covering the years of the last quarter of the eighteenth century and much of the first decade of the nineteenth, in particular the London musical scene. In all he wrote 996 general articles. While the majority of the articles have some length, a good proportion are brief (3 or 4 lines or fewer), dictionary definitions, or cross references. Many of the former are terms derived from French and Italian. The encyclopaedic-length articles (as distinct from the dictionary-length articles) are usually longer than Burney's earlier published writings on the same topic.\n\nDr Percy Scholes cites a statement by Dr Rees from Preface to the \"Cyclopaedia\" that he had 'constantly interpolated his own additions to the articles of his specialists'. and quotes a passage from the article about Dance (Vol 11) describing 'in our own memory', Welsh church-goers being played out of church by a fiddle.\n\nJohn Farey, sr was by profession a geologist, but was greatly interested music. He was involved with the Choral Fund, the Cecilian Society and the Surrey Chapel Society, and also sang in oratorios in Drury Lane Theatre. He was particularly interested in the mathematics of music and temperament, and wrote all the 215 scientific articles on these topics for Rees. Farey's investigations of temperament involved discussing (and criticising) the various schemes in use then. He described them in a series of letters to the \"Philosophical Magazine\", and the \"Monthly Magazine\" as well as the \"American Journal of Science\". He also contributed 25 articles to the \"Edinburgh Encyclopædia\" on this topic .\n\nJohn Farey, jr was a prolific contributor to Rees's \"Cyclopaedia\", not only as a writer but also as an artist of many of the plates. For the four articles he wrote, he drew plates for two illustrating John Isaac Hawkins's \"Finger-keyed Viol\", and two different patterns of pipe organ. The plates were keyed to the texts of the articles, and for this reason it was necessary for Farey to have produced both, since writing the texts describing the plates would have required technical knowledge which Burney would not have possessed.\n\nAlphabetisation of articles:<br>\nThe work followed the common practice of conflating the letters I and J and U and V into single sequences. The topics included in this list therefore follow the sequence they appear in the original volumes.\n\nAnnotations:<br>\nThe articles are annotated to Mercer's edition of Burney's \"History\" (1935) and Scholes's edition of Burney's travels, \"Travels\" (1959). Where a page reference is given the text can be found there. Where a book is cited, but with no page, index entries were found, and Burney is presumed to have written his article using the information there. Where there is no annotation, the article must be unique to the \"Cyclopaedia\".\n"}
{"id": "28688087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28688087", "title": "Lucía Puenzo", "text": "Lucía Puenzo\n\nLucía Puenzo (born 28 November 1976, Buenos Aires) is an Argentine author, screenwriter and film director. She is the daughter of the Oscar-winning film director, producer, and screenplay writer, Luis Puenzo.\n\nPuenzo studied literature at the University of Buenos Aires and proceeded to attend the ENERC, film school of the National Film Institute from Argentina (INCAA), where she graduated. She has done work with feature films, documentary films and mini series.\n\nPuenzo began her career in the film industry as a screenwriter; her first work being The Whore and the Whale (2002) She also wrote the screenplay for the film Through Your Eyes (2007), which was based on the short story \"Cinismo\", by the Argentine writer Sergio Bizzio. Within the same year, Puenzo made her debut as a director with the film, XXY (2007).\n\nIn much of her work, Puenzo focuses on childhood and adolescences. Most of these pieces feature either queer or intersex characters. She frames these stories through the innocence of a child's gaze. Through this practice, she attempts to resist heteronormative models of development.\n\nIn an interview with Elle magazine, Puenzo discusses her interest in nazism. A common theme in her work, is the fascination with modulating the human body, much like how Hitler attempted to modulate a whole race. In the work that she creates, writes and directs, such as XXY and The German Doctor, she focuses on the question of medically modified bodies. She shows the ethical dilemma with modern medicine and the creation of what a \"perfect body\" should conform to. With her work, Puenzo addresses the fact that society keeps on pushing towards standardization. She finds there is a delicate line between the good of medicine and what is unnecessary. By addressing different stories that sway back and forth across the line, she explores the limits of medicine.\n\nAs a director, she is strongly influenced by silent films. Although her work features sound, she makes an effort to not solely rely on dialogue if a scene can be told with a look.\n\nOn top of directing and screenwriting, Puenzo also has written several novels including El Niño Pez and Nueve Minutos. She creates films from many of her novels.\n\n\n35th International Festival of New Latin American Cinema\n"}
{"id": "5562009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5562009", "title": "Migrant literature", "text": "Migrant literature\n\nMigrant literature is either written by migrants or tells the stories of migrants and their migration. It is a topic of growing interest within literary studies since the 1980s. Migrants are people who have left their homes and cultural settings and who started a new life in another setting that is, in most cases, initially strange to them.\n\nAlthough any experience of migration would qualify an author to be classed under migrant literature, the main focus of recent research has been on the principal channels of mass-migration in the twentieth century. These include: European migration to North America or Australia; migration from former colonies to Europe (Black British literature, British-Asian literature, French Beur literature); situations of ethnic cleansing such as the mass migration of people from India to Pakistan and vice versa at the time of the partition of India; guest worker programs (Turks, Italians or Greeks in Germany and Holland); exile situations, such as that of exiled German dissidents during the Nazi period.\n\nMigrant literature often focuses on the social contexts in the migrants' country of origin which prompt them to leave, on the experience of migration itself, on the mixed reception which they may receive in the country of arrival, on experiences of racism and hostility, and on the sense of rootlessness and the search for identity which can result from displacement and cultural diversity.\n\nColonialism often creates a setting which results in the migration of large numbers of people, either within the colonies or from them to the \"imperial centre\" (Britain, France etc.). Consequently, migrant literature and postcolonial literature show some considerable overlap. However, not all migration takes place in a colonial setting, and not all postcolonial literature deals with migration. A question of current debate is the extent to which postcolonial theory also speaks to migration literature of non-colonial settings. The presence in central Europe of Gastarbeiter communities, for example, is not a result of colonialism, yet their literature does have much in common with, say, British-Asian literature.\n\nA number of categories have been developed for discussing migrant literature. Some of these are the standard categories of post-colonial theory, while others have been worked out precisely to cope with non-colonial settings.\n\nDisplacement is a key term in post-colonial theory which applies to all migrant situations. It refers both to physical displacement and a sense of being socially or culturally \"out of place\".\n\nPicking up on the term \"Gastarbeiter\" and using it affirmatively, Rafik Schami has used the terminology of guest and host to express some of the dynamics of migrant situations.\n\nIt is possible to distinguish the \"emigrant perspective\" of the migrant whose main focus is backwards to the country of origin from the \"immigrant perspective\" of the migrant who is reconciled with the prospect of permanent residence in the country of arrival.\n\nIn relation to work migration, it is common for one member of a family, typically the father, to travel in search of work, the rest of the family following later. In the context of migration and family ties, \"secondary migration\" refers to the emigration of relatives to join the primary migrant.\n\nFirst generation migrants are those who, as adults, themselves made the move from one country to another. Second generation migrants are the children of migrants, who were either very young at the time of migration or were born in the country of arrival. The perspectives across the generations can differ enormously. Some critics have even used the term \"third generation migrants\", though it is highly questionable whether this is meaningful: if a third generation is still culturally distinct it is probably more useful to speak of an established ethnic minority.\n\nIn literature of second generation migrants, a location \"between\" two cultures, sometimes called an \"interstitial\" space, is often mentioned as a way of expressing a sense of belonging in neither the guest nor the host community. Those whose experience has been more positive may reject the notion of \"between\" and feel that they live, rather, in the cultural overlap, not a void but a place of particular richness.\n\nHybridity is another catch-phrase from post-colonial theory which applies also in many non-colonial migrant situations. It refers to the migrant's culturally mixed identity as the opposed forces of assimilation and the search for roots force a middle way.\n\nBilingualism is an essential component of hybridity. Results of socio-linguistic research are therefore of importance to work on migrant literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "977757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977757", "title": "Military art", "text": "Military art\n\nMilitary art is art with a military subject matter, regardless of its style or medium. The battle scene is one of the oldest types of art in developed civilizations, as rulers have always been keen to celebrate their victories and intimidate potential opponents. The depiction of other aspects of warfare, especially the suffering of casualties and civilians, has taken much longer to develop. As well as portraits of military figures, depictions of anonymous soldiers away from the battlefield have been very common; since the introduction of military uniforms such works often concentrate on showing the variety of these.\n\nNaval scenes are very common, and battle scenes and \"ship portraits\" are mostly considered as a branch of marine art; the development of other large types of military equipment such as warplanes and tanks has led to new types of work portraying these, either in action or at rest. In 20th century wars official war artists were retained to depict the military in action; despite artists now being very close to the action the battle scene is mostly left to popular graphic media and the cinema. The term war art is sometimes used, mostly in relation to 20th century military art made during wartime.\n\nArt depicting military themes has existed throughout history. The Battlefield Palette, a cosmetic palette from the Protodynastic Period of Egypt (circa ~3500 to 3000 BC) is incomplete, but shows prisoners being led away, and wild animals feasting on the dead. The Stele of the Vultures, about 2,500 BC, is one of a number of Mesopotamian \"victory stelae\". Also around 2,500 BC, the earliest known depiction of a city being besieged is found in the tomb of Inti, an official from the 21st nome of Upper Egypt, who lived during the late Fifth Dynasty. The scene shows Egyptian soldiers scaling the walls of a near eastern fortress on ladders. Although the Battle of Kadesh in 1274 BC appears to have been inconclusive, reliefs erected by Ramesses II show him scattering his Hittite opponents with his chariot.\n\nSurviving Assyrian art mainly consists of large stone reliefs showing detailed scenes of either military campaigns or hunting. The ancient Greek Parthenon Marbles show lengthy parades of the city's volunteer cavalry force, and many Greek vases show scenes of combat. In Han dynasty China, a famous stone relief of c. 150-170 AD from the Wu family shrines shows a battle between cavalry forces in the Campaign against Dong Zhuo. In Ancient Roman art the most elaborate Roman triumphal columns showed very long reliefs of military campaigns winding round the body of huge columns; among the most impressive are those of Trajan and Marcus Aurelius in Rome. The Alexander Mosaic is a large and dramatic battle scene showing Alexander the Great defeating Darius III of Persia; it is a floor mosaic excavated from Pompeii, probably copying a lost painting. Many Hellenistic and Roman sarcophagi showed crowded scenes of combat, sometimes mythological (an amazonomachy is a term for a scene of battle between Amazons and Greeks), and usually not relating to a particular battle; these were not necessarily used to bury people with military experience. Such scenes had a great influence on Renaissance battle scenes. By the Late Roman Empire the reverse of coins very often showed soldiers and carried an inscription praising 'our boys', no doubt in hope of delaying the next military revolt.\n\nChristian art produced for the church generally avoided battle scenes, although a rare Late Antique motif shows Christ dressed as a victorious emperor in general's dress, having conquered the devil, in Christ treading on the beasts and other iconographies. The violent tastes of the Anglo-Saxon elite managed to add the Harrowing of Hell, conceived as a raid on Satan's stronghold, led by Christ, to the standard group of scenes for a cycle on the \"Life of Christ\". Soldier saints, shown in military dress, were extremely popular, as were images of the Archangel Michael stabbing Satan as a dragon with a cross with a spear-point at its base. Some illuminated manuscripts illustrated the many battles in the Old Testament.\n\nSecular works produced for secular patrons often show military themes, for example in illuminated manuscript copies of histories like the 15th century Froissart of Louis of Gruuthuse (BnF Fr 2643-6), where most of the 112 miniatures show military scenes. The \"Siege of the Castle of Love\", often found on Gothic ivory mirror-cases, showed knights attacking a castle defended by ladies, a metaphor from the literature of courtly love. The 11th century Bayeux Tapestry is a linear panoramic narrative of the events surrounding the Norman Conquest and the Battle of Hastings in 1066, the only surviving example of a type of embroidered hanging with which rich Anglo-Saxons used to decorate their homes. In Islamic art the battle scene, often from a fictional work of epic poetry, was a frequent subject in Persian miniatures, and the high viewpoint they adopted made the scenes more easily comprehensible than many Western images.\n\nItalian Renaissance painting saw a great increase in military art by the leading artists, battle paintings often featuring near-contemporary scenes such as the huge set of three canvases of \"The Battle of San Romano\" (c. 1445) by Paolo Uccello, and the abortive \"Battle of Cascina\" (1504–06) by Michelangelo and \"Battle of Anghiari\" by Leonardo da Vinci (1503–06), which were intended to be placed opposite each other in the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence, but neither of which were completed. For Renaissance artists with their new skills in depicting the human figure, battle scenes allowed them to demonstrate all their skills in depicting complicated poses; Michelangelo choose a moment when a group of soldiers was surprised bathing, and almost all the figures are nude. Leonardo's battle was a cavalry one, the central section of which was very widely seen before being destroyed, and hugely influential: it \"exerted a fundamental change on the whole idea of battle painting, an influence that lasted through the Late Renaissance and the Baroque up until the heroic machines of the Napoleonic painters and even the battle compositions of Delacroix\", according to the art historian Frederick Hartt.\n\nAll of these depicted frankly minor actions where Florence had defeated neighbouring cities, but important battles from distant history were equally popular. Andrea Mantegna's \"Triumphs of Caesar\" shows the Roman triumphal parade of Julius Caesar, though concentrating on the booty rather than the army following it; the print series \"Triumphs of Maximilian\" shows both, leading up to Maximilian II, Holy Roman Emperor riding on a huge carriage. \"The Battle of the Milvian Bridge\" by Giulio Romano brought a huge and \"seminal\" battle scene into the Raphael Rooms in the Vatican Palace. The unusual \"The Battle of Alexander at Issus\" (1528–9) by Albrecht Altdorfer managed to make one of the most highly regarded Renaissance battle scenes, despite, or perhaps because of, having a vertical format, which was dictated by the planned setting; it was commissioned as one of a set of eight battle paintings by various artists. \"It was the most detailed and panoramic battle picture of its day\", and its aerial viewpoint was to be very widely followed over the next centuries, though rarely to such dramatic effect.\nEspecially in Northern Europe, small groups of soldiers became a popular subject for paintings and especially prints by many artists, including Urs Graf, who is unusual in that he was a professional Swiss mercenary for many years. These works began to present a less heroic view of soldiers, who often represented a considerable threat to civilian populations even in peacetime, though the extravagant costumes of the Landsknecht are often treated as glamorous. For Peter Paret, from the Renaissance \"the glorification of the temporal leader and of his political system - which had of course also been present in medieval art - replaces the Christian faith as a determining interpretive force\" in military art.\n\nNaval painting became conventionalized in 17th century Dutch Golden Age painting, and from then on artists tended to specialize in it or not attempt it; apart from anything else \"Marine artists have always dealt with a particularly demanding class of patron\", as JMW Turner found when the \"Sailor King\" William IV of England rejected his version of \"The Battle of Trafalgar\" because of inaccuracy. Hendrick Vroom was the earliest real specialist, followed by the father and son team of Willem van de Velde, who emigrated to London in 1673, and effectively founded the English tradition of naval painting, \"producing a stunning visual record of the Anglo-Dutch naval wars, which set the conventions of maritime battle painting for the next 150 years\". Vroom had also worked for English patrons, designing a large set of tapestries of the defeat of the Spanish Armada which was destroyed when the Houses of Parliament burnt down in 1834.\n\nThe 17th and 18th centuries saw depictions of battles mostly adopting a bird's eye view, as though from a hill nearby; this made them less interesting to paint, and the major artists now tended to avoid them. A very different view of warfare is seen in \"Les Grandes Misères de la guerre\" (\"The Misfortunes of War\"), a set of twelve etchings produced by Jacques Callot during the Thirty Years War which follows a group of soldiers ravaging the countryside before eventually being rounded up by their own side and executed. Also in the first half of the 17th century, a branch of genre painting in Dutch Golden Age painting specialized in guardroom scenes of rather disorderly soldiers, not often in battle, but ransacking farmhouses or sitting around in a camp guardroom. The paintings of Salvator Rosa, essentially landscapes, often showed groups variously described as bandits or soldiers lurking in the countryside of Southern Italy. \"The Surrender of Breda\" by Velázquez (1634–35) shows a crowded scene as the two sides meet peacefully to surrender the town; a theme more often copied in naval painting than land-based military art.\nDuring the 17th century sets of tapestries became the main medium for \"official military art\". A set produced for the Duke of Marlborough showing his victories was varied for different clients, and even sold to one of his opponents, Maximilian II Emanuel, Elector of Bavaria, after reworking the general's faces and other details. In the mid-18th century, a number of artists, especially in Britain, sought to revive military art with large works centred on a heroic incident that would once again bring the genre to the fore in history painting, as it had been in the Renaissance. The standard contemporary battle scene tended to be grouped in the lowly category of topographical painting, covering maps and views of country houses. \"The Death of General Wolfe\" (1771) by Benjamin West, \"The Death of Captain James Cook\" (1779) by Johann Zoffany, \"The Defeat of the Floating Batteries at Gibraltar, September 1782\" and \"The Death of Major Pierson\" (1784) by John Singleton Copley are leading examples of the new type, which ignored complaints about the unsuitability of modern dress for heroic subjects. However such works had more immediate influence in France than in Britain.\nIn the Napoleonic era, France added Romanticism to its style and began to portray individual soldiers with more character. Battle paintings were increasingly produced for large public buildings, and grew larger than ever before. Baron Gros painted mostly glorifications of Napoleon and his victories, but his 1808 painting of the \"Battle of Eylau\" does not neglect the suffering of the dead and wounded on the frozen battlefield. In contrast, Goya's large paintings \"The Second of May 1808\" and \"The Third of May 1808\", perhaps consciously conceived as a riposte to Gros, and his related series of 82 etchings, \"The Disasters of War\" (Spanish: \"Los Desastres de la Guerra\"), emphasized the brutality of the French forces during the Peninsular War in Spain. British depictions of the Napoleonic Wars continued the late 18th century patterns, often on a larger scale, with the death of Admiral Horatio Nelson quickly producing large works by Arthur William Devis (\"The Death of Nelson, 21 October 1805\") and West (\"The Death of Nelson\"). J. M. W. Turner was among the artists who produced scenes of Nelson's victories, with \"The Battle of Trafalgar\". The British Institution ran competitions for sketches of art commemorating British victories, the winning entries being then commissioned.\nIn this period the uniform print, concentrating on a detailed depiction of the uniform of one or more standing figures, typically hand-coloured, also became very popular across Europe. Like other prints these were typically published in book form, but also sold individually. In Britain the 87 prints of \"The Loyal Volunteers of London\" (1797–98) by Thomas Rowlandson, published by Rudolph Ackermann, mark the start of the classic period. Though Rowlandson usually satirized his subjects to some degree, here the soldiers were \"represented as they, and particularly their colonels who paid for their uniforms, preferred to see themselves\", which remained the usual depiction in such prints. A by Carle Vernet of the splendid uniforms of \"La Grande Armée de 1812\" showed most foot-soldiers in pairs in camp, in a variety of relaxed poses that showed one from the front and the other from behind. A rare oil painting by a leading artist that treats soldiers in the spirit of the uniform print is \"Soldiers of the 10th Light Dragoons\" (the \"Prince of Wales Own\") painted in 1793 by George Stubbs for their Colonel in Chief, the future George IV of England. Other paintings of single soldiers were more dramatic, like Théodore Géricault's \"The Charging Chasseur\" (c. 1812).\n\nEugène Delacroix, who also painted many smaller combat scenes, finished his \"The Massacre at Chios\" in 1824, showing a then notorious attack on Greek civilians by Ottoman forces during the Greek War of Independence, who are shown in an entirely negative light. It had a more immediate impact on European art than Goya's \"Tres de Mayo\" (\"The Third of May 1808\") of a few years earlier, which was apparently not even on display in the Prado Museum until some years later. In contrast, Delacroix's \"Liberty Leading the People\" of 1830 showed fighting in a positive light, but not the \"military\" as it shows armed civilian revolutionaries of the July Revolution, advancing against the unseen uniformed forces of the government. Turkish atrocities were to remain a recurrent theme in 19th-century painting, especially in former Ottoman territories escaped from the declining empire (often pre-rape scenes treated rather salaciously), and general anti-military sentiments, previously mostly found in prints, were also to emerge regularly in large oil paintings.\n\nMilitary art remained popular during the remainder of the 19th century in most of Europe. French artists such as Ernest Meissonier, Edouard Detaille, and Alphonse de Neuville established military genre painting in the Paris Salon. New forms of military art which developed in the 1850s met considerable opposition from the Royal Academy in the United Kingdom.\nEuropean artists in a generally academic style who were well known as painters of battle scenes, still often of subjects from the Napoleonic Wars or older conflicts, included Albrecht Adam, Nicaise de Keyser, Piotr Michałowski Antoine Charles Horace Vernet, Emile Jean Horace Vernet, Wilhelm Camphausen and Emil Hünten. The rise of nationalism promoted battle painting in countries such as Hungary (great attention paid to uniforms), Poland (huge forces) and the Czech Lands. Jan Matejko's enormous \"Battle of Grunwald\" (1878) reflects Pan-Slav sentiment, showing various Slav forces joining together to smash the power of the Teutonic Knights.\n\nThe usage of the term \"military art\" has evolved since the middle of the 19th century. In France, Charles Baudelaire discussed military art, and the impact on it of photography, in the Paris Salon of 1859. A British critic of the Royal Academy exhibition of 1861 observed that \n\nIn contrast, the British artist Elizabeth Thompson (Lady Butler) explained that she \"never painted for the glory of war, but to portray its pathos and heroism.\" The aftermath of battle was depicted in paintings like \"Calling the Roll After An Engagement, Crimea\", which displayed at the Royal Academy in 1874. This perspective is also seen in \"Remnants of an Army\" which showed William Brydon struggling into Jalalabad on a dying horse. Dr. Brydon was the sole survivor of the 1842 retreat from Kabul, in which 16,000 were massacred by Afghan tribesmen.\n\nThe British market began to develop in the middle of the 19th century. The relations between the state and its military, and the ideologies which are implied in that relationship affected the artwork, the artists and the public perceptions of both artwork and artists.\n\nBy the time of the American Civil War and the Crimean War photographers began to compete strongly with artists in coverage of scenes in camp, and the aftermath of battle, but exposure times were generally too long to enable them to take pictures of battles very effectively. War photography is not covered in this article. Illustrations for newspapers and magazines continued a heroic style with perhaps more confidence than painters, and Melton Prior followed British forces around Imperial troublespots for decades, working for the \"Illustrated London News\"; his scenes \"helped to establish a style of action draughtsmanship which has left an indelible stamp on the art of the comic strip.\" Prior and other \"special correspondents\" such as Frederic Villiers were known as \"specials\". Richard Caton Woodville and Charles Edwin Fripp were \"specials\" and also painters who exhibited at the Royal Academy and elsewhere.\n\nWorld War I very largely confirmed the end of the glorification of war in art, which had been in decline since the end of the previous century. In general, and despite the establishment of large schemes employing official war artists, the most striking art depicting the war is that emphasizing its horror. Official war artists were appointed by governments for information or propaganda purposes and to record events on the battlefield; but many artists fought as normal soldiers and recorded their experiences at the time and later, including the Germans George Grosz and Otto Dix, who had both fought on the Western Front, and continued to depict the subject for the rest of their careers. Dix's \"The Trench\" (1923), showing the dismembered bodies of the dead after an assault, caused a scandal, and was first displayed behind a curtain, before causing the dismissal of the museum director who had planned to buy it. Later, after exhibiting it in their 1937 travelling exhibition of \"Degenerate art\", the Nazi government burnt it. He produced a set of fifty prints in 1924 on \"Der Krieg\" (\"The War\"). The English artist Paul Nash began to make drawings of the war while fighting on the Western Front in the Artists Rifles. After recovering from a wound he was recruited as an official war artist and produced many of the most memorable images from the British side of both World Wars. After the war, the huge demand for war memorials caused a boom for sculptors, covered below, and makers of stained-glass.\n\nPosters had become universal by 1914 and were addressed at both the military and the \"home front\" for various purposes, including recruitment, where the British \"Lord Kitchener Wants You\" (not actually the slogan) was repeated in the United States with Uncle Sam, and elsewhere with similar totemic figures. The Soviet Union began with very Modernist posters such as \"Beat the Whites with the Red Wedge\" by Lazar Markovich Lissitzky but soon turned to socialist realism, used for most World War II posters from the Soviet Union, which sometimes are similar to their Nazi equivalents. In World War II they were even more widely used. Illustrators and sketch artists such as Norman Rockwell also followed the trend away from military themed shots following the Second World War and with the rise of photographic covers in general.\n\nThe impact of the Spanish Civil War on a non-combatant populace was depicted in Picasso's masterpiece, \"Guernica\", showing the bombing of Guernica in 1937; a very different treatment of a similar subject is seen in Henry Moore's drawings of sleeping civilians sheltering from The Blitz bombing on the station platforms of the London Underground. Among official World War II war artists, Paul Nash's \"Totes Meer\" is a powerful image of a scrapyard of shot-down German aircraft, and the landscapist Eric Ravilious produced some very fine paintings before being shot down and killed in 1942. Edward Ardizzone's pictures concentrated entirely on soldiers relaxing or performing routine duties, and were praised by many soldiers: \"He is the only person who has caught the atmosphere of this war\" felt Douglas Cooper, the art critic and historian, friend of Picasso, and then in a military medical unit. Photography and film were now able to capture fast-moving action, and can fairly be said to have produced most of memorable images recording combat in the war, and certainly subsequent conflicts like the Vietnam War, which was more notable for specifically anti-war protest art, in posters and the work of artists like Nancy Spero.\n\nRulers have been shown in specifically military dress since ancient times; the difference is especially easy to see in Ancient Roman sculpture, where generals and increasingly often emperors are depicted with armour and the short military tunic. Medieval tomb effigies more often than not depict knights, nobles and kings in armour, whether or not they saw active service. In the Early Modern period, when senior commanders tended to wear their normal riding dress even on the battlefield, the distinction between a military portrait and a normal one is mostly conveyed by the background, or by a breastplate or the buff leather jerkin worn underneath armour, but once even generals began to wear military uniform, in the mid-18th century, it becomes clear again, although initially officer's uniforms were close to smart civilian costume.\n\nFull-length and equestrian portraits of rulers and generals often showed them on the battlefield, but with the action in the distant background; a feature probably dating back to Titian's magisterial \"Equestrian Portrait of Charles V\", which shows the emperor after his victory at the Battle of Mühlberg but with no other soldiers present. Monarchs were not often painted in military uniform until the Napoleonic period, but in the 19th century this became typical for formal portraits, perhaps because uniform was more visually appealing. A distinctively Dutch type of painting are huge group portraits commissioned by the wealthy part-time officers of city militia companies, of which Rembrandt's \"Night Watch\" is much the most famous, although its narrative setting is atypical of the genre. Most examples just show the officers lined up as though about to eat dinner, and some show them actually eating it. Otherwise group portraits of officers are rather surprisingly rare until the 19th century.\n\nMost surviving sculpture of battle scenes from antiquity is in stone reliefs, covered above. Renaissance artists and patrons were keen to revive this form, which they mostly did in much smaller scenes in stone or bronze. The tomb in Milan of the brilliant French general Gaston of Foix, Duke of Nemours included numerous marble reliefs round the base of the sarcophagus (which was never completed). Statues and tomb monuments of commanders continued to be the most common site until the more general war memorial commemorating all the dead began to emerge in the period of the Napoleonic Wars. Nelson's Column in London still commemorates a single commander; it has very large reliefs around the base by different artists, although these are generally regarded as less memorable than other aspects of the monument. Wellington's Column in Liverpool is also known as the \"Waterloo Memorial\", shifting to the more modern concept when \"the dead were remembered essentially as soldiers who fought in the name of national collectives\".\n\nThe huge losses of the American Civil War saw the first really large group of sculptural war memorials, as well as many monuments for individuals. Among the most artistically outstanding is the Memorial to Robert Gould Shaw and the all-black 54th Regiment by Augustus Saint-Gaudens in Boston, with a second cast in the National Gallery of Art, Washington. The even larger losses of World War I led even small communities in most nations involved to raise some form of memorial, introducing the widespread use of the form to Australia, Canada and New Zealand, the sudden increase in demand leading to a boom for sculptors of public art. Even more than in painting, the war brought a crisis in style, as much public opinion felt the traditional heroic styles inappropriate. One of the most successful British memorials is the starkly realist Royal Artillery Memorial in London, the masterpiece of Charles Sargeant Jagger, who had been wounded three times in the war and spent most of the next decade commemorating it. In the defeated nations of Germany and Austria controversy, which had a political aspect, was especially fierce, and a number of memorials considered excessively modern were removed by the Nazis, whose own memorials, such as the Tannenberg Memorial were removed after World War II. Other solutions were to make memorials more neutral, as in the repurposed Neue Wache in Berlin, since rededicated to different groups several times, and the dignified architectural forms of the Cenotaph in London (widely imitated) and the German Laboe Naval Memorial; tombs of the Unknown Warrior and eternal flames were other ways of avoiding controversy. Some, like the Canadian National War Memorial, and most French memorials, were content to update traditional styles.\n\nA great number of World War I memorials were simply expanded in scope to cover the dead of World War II, and often subsequent conflicts. The now dominant role of photography in depicting war is reflected in the National Iwo Jima Memorial, which recreates the iconic photograph \"Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima\". The National D-Day Memorial, a project of the 1990s, includes strongly realist sculpture, in contrast to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington. More innovative memorials have often been erected for the civilian victims of war, above all those of the Holocaust.\n\nMilitary art encompasses actions of military forces in times of peace. For example, USMC Sgt. Kristopher Battles, the only remaining official American war artist in 2010, deployed with American forces in Haiti to provide humanitarian relief as part of Operation Unified Response after the disastrous earthquake in 2010.\n\nWar art creates a visual account of military conflict by showing its impact as men and women are shown waiting, preparing, fighting, suffering, and celebrating.The subjects encompass many aspects of war, and the individual's experience of war, whether allied or enemy, service or civilian, military or political, social or cultural. The thematic range embraces the causes, course and consequences of conflict.\n\nWar art, a significant expression of any culture and its significant legacies, combines artistic and documentary functions to provide a pictorial portrayal of war scenes and show \"how war shapes lives.\" It represents an attempt to come to terms with the nature and reality of violence. War art is typically realistic, capturing factual, eyewitness detail as well as the emotional impression and impact of events. Art and war becomes \"a tussle between the world of the imagination and the world of action\" — a constant tension between the factual representation of events and an artist's interpretation of those events.\n\nPart of the tussle includes determining how best to illustrate complex war scenes. C.E.W. Bean's \"Anzac Book\", for example, influenced Australian artists who grew up between the two world wars. When they were asked to depict a second multi-nation war after 1939, there was a precedent and format for them to follow.\n\nWar art has been used as an instrument of propaganda, such as a nation-building function or other persuasive ends. War art is also captured in caricature, which offers contemporary insights. Western Civilization and aesthetic tradition were both clearly marked by military conflicts throughout history. War drove culture and culture drove war. The legacy of war inspired artworks reads like a series of mile markers, documenting the meandering course of civilization's evolutionary map. \n\nWar artists may be involved as onlookers to the scenes, military personnel who respond to powerful inner urges to depict direct war experience, or individuals who are officially commissioned to be present and record military activity.\n\nAs an example of nation's efforts to document war events, official Japanese war artists were commissioned to create artwork in the context of a specific war for the Japanese government, including \"sensō sakusen kirokuga\" (\"war campaign documentary painting\"). Between 1937 and 1945, approximately 200 pictures depicting Japan's military campaigns were created. These pictures were presented at large-scale exhibitions during the war years; After the end of World War II, Americans took possession of Japanese artwork.\n\nThere are some who may choose not to create war art. During the course of World War II, the Italians created virtually no art which documented the conflict. The French began to paint the war only after the war was ended in 1945.\n\nExamples of classical war art include the friezes of warriors at the Temple of Aphaia in Greece or the Bayeux Tapestry, is a linear panoramic narrative of the events surrounding the Norman Conquest and the Battle of Hastings in 1066.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57884534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57884534", "title": "Museo d'Arte Sacra della Val d'Arbia", "text": "Museo d'Arte Sacra della Val d'Arbia\n\nThe Museo d'Arte Sacra della Val d'Arbia is a small museum of religious art in Buonconvento, in the Val d'Arbia to the south of Siena, in Tuscany in central Italy. It contain a number of paintings by important artists of the Sienese School, among them Duccio di Buoninsegna, Sano di Pietro and Pietro Lorenzetti. The museum is housed in the Palazzo Ricci Socini, close to the parish church of Santi Pietro e Paolo.\n\nThe museum was started by the parish priest, Crescenzio Massari, in 1926, and has since expanded. A number of works were originally in various churches in the area.\n\nThe museum holds paintings by several important artists of the Sienese School. Among them are:\n\n\nAmong the other Sienese artists represented are Andrea Piccinelli (\"Il Brescianino\"), Bartolomeo di David, Bernardino Mei, Francesco Vanni, Pietro Lorenzetti, Rutilio Manetti and Ventura Salimbeni.\n\nThe Florentine School is represented by one painting, an \"Annunciation\" by Benvenuto di Giovanni dating from between 1490 and 1500.\n\n"}
{"id": "23107070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23107070", "title": "Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket", "text": "Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket\n\nNocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket is a c. 1875 painting by James Abbott McNeill Whistler held in the Detroit Institute of Arts. The painting exemplified the Art for art's sake movement – a concept formulated by Pierre Jules Théophile Gautier and Charles Baudelaire. \n\nFirst shown at the Grosvenor Gallery in London in 1877, it is one of two works (the other being \"Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Firewheel\") inspired by the Cremorne Gardens, a celebrated pleasure resort in London. One of his many works from his series of Nocturnes, it is the last of the London Nocturnes and is now widely acknowledged to be the high point of Whistler's middle period. Whistler's depiction of the industrial city park in \"The Falling Rocket\" includes a fireworks display in the foggy night sky. \"Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket\" is most famously known as the inception of the lawsuit between Whistler and the art critic John Ruskin.\n\n\"Nocturne in Black and Gold – The Falling Rocket\" is fundamentally composed of bleak tones, with three main colors: blue, green, and yellow. Restricted in its use of colors, the piece develops a muted yet harmonious composition. The billowing smoke gives the viewer a clear distinction between the water and the sky, where the separation blurs into a cohesive and somber space. It is this large avalanche of fog that represents the rocket of the title. Dabs of yellow enliven the artwork as exploding fireworks in the misty air. The figures watching are almost transparent, their shapes general and simplistic. To the left, the artist signs his name in a manner that has clearly been influenced by Japanese prints, with thick, straight brushstrokes that appear to imitate Japanese characters. Influenced by Japanese artists like Utagawa Hiroshige, Whistler spent years perfecting his splatter technique. Eventually he possessed the ability to make an object or person with what appeared to be nothing more than a single flick of paint. Although Whistler's critics denounced his technique as reckless or lacking artistic merit, it is notable that Whistler spent much of his time with meticulous details, often going so far as to view his work through mirrors to ensure that no deficiencies were overlooked.\n\n\"The Falling Rocket\" retains a certain degree of colour-laden luminosity that provokes spatial ambiguity set against a structure of line and form. Nocturnes were a series of paintings which, through painterly style, were evocative of differing night time scenes. The artist insisted that they were not pictures, but rather, scenes or moments. Working against contemporary inclinations for narrative (indicative of the heavy consumption of literature), Whistler can be seen arguing for painting's essential difference from literature within this work, as colour and tone trounce hints of narrative or moral allusion. Whistler's focus was on coloristic effects as a means of creating a particular sensation. More than that, a Nocturne is concerned with its depiction of space, seeking a particular sense of void that seems to arise only in the night time. As part of the Art for Art's Sake movement, the artwork seeks to provide complex emotions that go beyond the technicalities of the imagery. Whistler believed that certain experiences were often best expressed by nuance and implication. These compositions were not designed to avoid the truth of a scene, but instead served as a means of reaching deeper, more hidden truths. His artistic endeavours no longer concerned themselves with physical accuracy, seeking only to capture the essence of an intangible, personal and intimate moment. Whistler has been quoted as saying \"If the man who paints only the tree, or flower, or other surface he sees before him were an artist, the king of artists would be the photographer. It is for the artist to do something beyond this.” In essence, \"The Falling Rocket\" is the synthesis of a fireworks scene in London, and so by no means does it aim to look like it. Like his other Nocturnes, the painting is meant to be seen as an arrangement, set to invoke particular sensations for the audience.\n\nAffronted by \"The Falling Rocket\", John Ruskin accused Whistler of \"flinging a pot of paint in the public's face\" in the \"Fors Clavigera\". As a leading art critic of the Victorian era, Ruskin's harsh critique of \"The Falling Rocket\" caused an uproar among owners of other Whistler works. Rapidly, it became shameful to have a Whistler piece, pushing the artist into greater financial difficulties. With his pride, finances, and the significance of his Nocturne at stake, Whistler sued Ruskin for libel in defence. In court, he asked the jury to not view it as a traditional painting, but instead as an artistic arrangement. In his explanation, he insisted that the painting was a representation of the fireworks from the Cremorne Gardens. During the trial, Sir John Holker asked, \"Not a view of the Cremorne?\" to which Whistler was quoted as saying, \"If it were a view of Cremorne, it would certainly bring about nothing but disappointment on the part of the beholders.\" However, his case was not helped when \"The Falling Rocket\" was accidentally presented to trial upside down. His explanation of the composition proved fruitless before the judge. The Ruskin vs. Whistler Trial, which took place on November 25 and 26, 1878, was disastrous for Whistler. While he did not lose, he only won a farthing. After all the court costs, he had no choice but to declare bankruptcy. Whistler was forced to pawn, sell, and mortgage everything he could get his hands on. Whistler included a transcript of the case in his 1890 book \"The Gentle Art of Making Enemies\".\n\nJohn Ruskin was not aware of the effort and theory that had gone into \"Nocturne in Black and Gold\" when he accused \"The Falling Rocket\" of being a public insult. Ruskin had berated Whistler's paintings long before the event leading up to the trial. Four years earlier he had denounced Whistler's art as \"absolute rubbish\". It is speculated that Ruskin was envious of Whistler's close relationship with Charles Augustus Howell, who often aided Whistler financially – especially after the court case. It is also said that the artist's lack of homage offended Ruskin. Whistler was not the only person disturbed by the art critic's commentary. Henry James was one individual that spoke out against Ruskin, remarking that Ruskin had begun to overstep his bounds as an art critic, becoming tyrannical in his diction – so much so that to see him brought to court over his offensive words was perceived as a delight. It has been suggested John Ruskin suffered from CADASIL syndrome and the visual disturbances this condition caused him might have been a factor in his irritation at this particular painting.\n\n"}
{"id": "8264365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8264365", "title": "Northwest Coast art", "text": "Northwest Coast art\n\nNorthwest Coast art is the term commonly applied to a style of art created primarily by artists from Tlingit, Haida, Heiltsuk, Nuxalk, Tsimshian, Kwakwaka'wakw, Nuu-chah-nulth and other First Nations and Native American tribes of the Northwest Coast of North America, from pre-European-contact times up to the present.\n\nTwo-dimensional Northwest Coast art is distinguished by the use of formlines, and the use of characteristic shapes referred to as \"ovoids\", \"U forms\" and \"S forms\". Before European contact, the most common media were wood (often Western red cedar), stone, and copper; since European contact, paper, canvas, glass, and precious metals have also been used. If paint is used, the most common colours are red and black, but yellow is also often used, particularly among Kwakwaka'wakw artists. Chilkat weaving applies formline designs to textiles. Tlingit, Haida, and Tsimshian have traditionally produced Chilkat woven regalia, from wool and yellow cedar bark, that is important for civic and ceremonial events, including potlatches.\n\nThe patterns depicted include natural forms such as bears, ravens, eagles, orcas, and humans; legendary creatures such as thunderbirds and sisiutls; and abstract forms made up of the characteristic Northwest Coast shapes. Totem poles are the most well-known artifacts produced using this style. Northwest Coast artists are also notable for producing characteristic \"bent-corner\" or \"bentwood\" boxes, masks, and canoes. Northwest Coast designs were also used to decorate traditional First Nations household items such as spoons, ladles, baskets, hats, and paddles; since European contact, the Northwest Coast art style has increasingly been used in gallery-oriented forms such as paintings, prints and sculptures.\n\nTextile arts from the Northwest Coast include Chilkat weaving, Raven's Tail Weavings, Button Blankets, and elaborate ceremonial regalia using a range of materials. Three dimension art was created from many materials, notably wood.\n\nPrior to contact with Europeans, First Nations on the Northwest coast evolved complex social and ceremonial institutions, including the potlatch system, hereditary systems of rank and descent, ceremonial societies, and permanent villages. Social organization involved groups of kin, reckoned variously matrilineally, patrilineally or bi-lineally. These groups hold various tangible and intangible rights and properties. Among them are origin stories. Many instances of Northwest coast art are visual references to these stories. \n\nAfter European contact, in the late 18th century, the peoples who produced Northwest Coast art suffered huge population losses due to diseases such as smallpox, and cultural losses due to colonization and assimilation into European-North American culture. The production of their art dropped drastically as well.\n\nToward the end of the 19th century, Northwest Coast artists began producing work for commercial sale, such as small argillite carvings. The end of the 19th century also saw large-scale export of totem poles, masks and other traditional art objects from the region to museums and private collectors around the world. Some of this export was accompanied by financial compensation to people who had a right to sell the art, and some was not.\n\nIn the early 20th century, very few First Nations artists in the Northwest Coast region were producing art. A tenuous link to older traditions remained in artists such as Charles Gladstone, Henry Speck, Ellen Neel, Stanley George, and Mungo Martin. The mid-20th century saw a revival of interest and production of Northwest Coast art, due to the influence of historians, artists and critics including Bill Reid, a grandson of Charles Gladstone and Bill Holm. A revival of traditional ceremonial ways also drove the increased production of traditional arts. This time also saw an increasing demand for the return of art objects that were illegally or immorally taken from First Nations communities. This demand continues to the present day. Today, there are numerous art schools teaching formal Northwest Coast art of various styles, and there is a growing market for new art in this style.\n\nThe revival of ceremonial life, following the lifting of the potlatch ban - have also driven production of traditional clothing, painting and carving for use in ceremonies.\n\nAlthough neighbouring peoples such as the Coast Salish peoples also traditionally produced art which shares some characteristics of Northwest Coast art, these styles of art are not usually included in the term, since the patterns and artifacts produced are rather different. For example, Salish peoples traditionally created standing welcome figures not created by other Northwest Coast peoples, did not traditionally create totem poles, and did not traditionally use the form lines and shapes of other Northwest Coast peoples. One corollary of this fact is that — contrary to popular belief — other than some of the peoples of the Olympic Peninsula, no Native American nations of Washington and Oregon states produced totem poles and other characteristic, formline, Northwest Coast-style art objects before European contact.\n\nTraditionally, within a given community, some patterns and motifs could be used only by certain families and lineages, or with the agreement of those families and lineages. Today, in British Columbia, it is a point of contention whether only First Nations artists of the appropriate nation have the moral right to produce art of given types and using given motifs, or whether only the intent of the person and the respect given to the respective peoples are significant. Likewise, in Ontario, similar controversies have arisen over whether non-Native artists have the moral right to make use of Native motifs and visual art styles. Some non-Native artists, such as John Livingston, have been adopted into First Nations and have thus formally acquired the right to produce such art. In some nations, such as the Haida, adoptions are seen by some only as gestures, and production of work in their trademark style by outsiders may, in some contexts, be viewed as economic and cultural appropriation. T\n\nNotable Northwest Coast artists of the 19th century include- Albert Edward Edenshaw (Haida), Captain Carpenter (Heiltsuk), Willie Seaweed (Kwakwak'wakw), Charles Edenshaw, who is widely acknowledged as a master whose art is in all the great collections around the world.\n\nAlso Guujaaw, another notable carver and builder who is also Haida political leader. Other notable Northwest Coast artists of the 20th and 21st centuries include Charlie James, Henry Speck, Doug Cranmer, Stanley George, James Schoppert, Bill Reid, Mungo Martin, Ellen Neel, Robert Davidson, Beau Dick, Willie Seaweed, Roy Henry Vickers, Don Yeomans, Amos Wallace, Lyle Wilson, Ron Hamilton, Art Thompson, Joe David, Reginald Peterson, Freda Diesing, Lawrence Paul Yuxweluptun, and Tony Hunt.\n\nNotable academics and publishers of northwest Northwest Coast include Bill Holm, Bill Reid, Hilary Stewart, Bill McLennan, Martha Black, and George F. MacDonald. Doreen Jensen and Polly Sargent's book \"Robes of Power\" (1986) deals with ceremonial robes - called Button blanket - and their history and forms. Cheryl Samuel and her book \"The Raven's Tail\" (1987) describes northern weaving style known as Raven's Tail - used to make ceremonial robes and other regalia. \n\nEmily Carr, though she did not formally adopt the techniques, commonly used native art as the motif of many of her early paintings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35683946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35683946", "title": "Opera management", "text": "Opera management\n\nOpera management is the management of the processes by which opera is delivered to audiences. A multifaceted task, it involves managing an opera company, primarily the singers and musicians who perform the operas, but in many cases also managing the opera house in which the company performs. \n\nOpera is a complex art form involving high fixed costs and requiring complex management. In addition to the singers and musicians who form the core of the company its production requires scenery and costumes and sometimes dancers and non-singing actors. Fixed costs in today's opera organizations—keeping many of the singers and musicians on year-round contracts, and if managing their own theatre, the cost of workers needed to create and maintain the sets and costumes as well as the cost of maintaining and running the building—combined with the costs of individual productions, make opera the most expensive of the performing arts. However, even in the 19th century when opera was largely run by individual impresarios rather than large organisations, opera management as a profession was characterised as \"a devouror of the fortunes of the victims it has tempted by its seductions\". Frederick Gye, who turned the Royal Italian Opera in Covent Garden into one of London's premiere opera houses in the 19th century and who shaped the careers of many famous singers, described opera management as a \"dreadful business\".\n\nThe earliest operas were privately performed and financed by the noble families who commissioned them, often to mark great court occasions. One such example was Marco da Gagliano's \"La Flora\", performed in 1628 at the Medici Palace in Florence to celebrate the marriage of Margherita de' Medici and Odoardo Farnese, Duke of Parma. Grand Duchess Maria Maddalena, the wife of Cosimo II de' Medici and the mother of the bride, took an active role in the planning of the production. She secured the services of the musicians and singers, attended the rehearsals, and according to musicologist Kelley Harness, may well have contributed to the development of the plot as well. \n\nPublicly performed operas first appeared in Venice during the Carnival season of 1637. This was facilitated by the large number of public theatres already present in the city which originally served for the production of plays. They were built by noble families such as the Grimani, Tron, and Vendramin. The rebuilt Teatro San Cassiano, sponsored by the Tron family, was the first in the world specifically devoted to opera. Performances of \"L'Andromeda\" in 1637 by librettist Benedetto Ferrari and composer Francesco Manelli marked the theatre's first commercially produced opera. In the majority of cases the patrician Venetian owners profited from their theatres by renting them out to others who produced and managed the opera performances. The key figure in the actual production of the operas was the impresario, who assembled the singers, musicians and creative team and made the business and artistic decisions. Sometimes the impresarios were hired by the theatre renters and their backers. On other occasions the impresario was also one of the investors and the renter of the theatre. The \"cassier\" (cashier) was in charge the financial side of the production, including handling the payments and receipts. While the \"cassier\" was sometimes a separate member of the management team, in many instances the impresario also acted as the \"cassier\". One of the most famous impresarios of the day was Marco Faustini who managed several Venetian opera houses in the course of his career.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54083661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54083661", "title": "Oscar Wilde Memorial Sculpture", "text": "Oscar Wilde Memorial Sculpture\n\nThe Oscar Wilde Memorial Sculpture is a collection of three statues in Merrion Square in Dublin, Ireland, commemorating Irish poet and playwright Oscar Wilde. The sculptures were unveiled in 1997 and were designed and made by Danny Osborne. \n\nEnglish sculptor Danny Osborne was commissioned by the Guinness Ireland Group to create a statue commemorating Oscar Wilde, which was unveiled in 1997, by Wilde's grandson Merlin Holland. The initial budget of IR£20,000 was later increased to IR£45,000. Since marble alone was deemed inadequate, the statue was formed from different coloured stones from three continents. The torso is of green nephrite jade from British Columbia, Canada, and pink thulite from Norway. The legs are of Norwegian Blue Pearl granite with the shoes being black Indian charnockite and finished with bronze shoelace tips. The statue also wears a Trinity College tie made from glazed porcelain, and three rings – Wilde's wedding ring and two scarabs, one for good luck, the other for bad luck.\n\nThe statue is mounted with Wilde reclining on a large quartz boulder obtained by Osborne himself from the Wicklow Mountains. The sculpture also includes two pillars flanking the boulder with one pillar having a nude pregnant representation of Wilde's wife Constance Lloyd on top. The other one has a male torso representing Dionysus, the Greek God of drama and wine, atop it. Both flanking sculptures are in bronze and granite, and both pillars have inscriptions from Wilde's poems carved onto them. The inscriptions of the quotes copy\nthe personal handwriting of figures including Seamus Heaney, John B. Keane and Michael D. Higgins.\n\nThree people, living at the time near to the artist's West Cork studio, posed as models for the three sculptures.\n\nWhen the statue was unveiled in 1997, it was the first statue commemorating Wilde, who had died 97 years earlier. It received near unanimous praise for the materials used and for its location near his childhood home at 1, Merrion Square. In 2010, the porcelain head of Wilde had to be replaced because cracks were forming on it. The porcelain head was replaced by a new one made of white jadeite.\n\nIn a May 2001 article in the Irish edition of \"The Sunday Times\" Mark Keenan commented on the surprisingly long wait for a commemoration of Wilde in his native city and suggested an explanation for the delay, \"... a decade ago, more conservative elements among the Dublin public may not have dared allow his city to commemorate his name.\" Art historian Paula Murphy agreed, saying, \"It has taken nearly one hundred years for an Irish body, public or private, to risk suggesting that we might consider Oscar Wilde worthy of such commemoration. But then it has taken the same length of time for Ireland to awaken, reluctantly, to the existence of sexuality and the reality of the way in which it dictates a lifestyle.\" It took as long for London, where Wilde spent most of his adult life, to commemorate the dramatist: Maggi Hambling's \"A Conversation with Oscar Wilde\" was unveiled in 1998.\n\nDiscussing the work in her 2012 article \"Sculpting Irishness: a discussion of Dublin's commemorative statues of Oscar Wilde and Phil Lynott\" for \"Sculpture Journal\", Sarah Smith writes:\n\nAnother distinction is the figure's facial expression, which, disrupting the realism of the figure, might be described as a rather contorted sneer. Intended by the artist to represent two antithetical sides of Wilde, one half of his face is smiling widely ... while the other bears a sombre expression ... and this divide is echoed in his posture on either side. Because of its positioning at the corner of the park on the turn of the outer pathway, the visitor to the monument sees one side of Wilde when approaching and another when walking away. One is the witty Wilde who is most often remembered in popular culture, the other the \"broken man\" he became following his two-year incarceration for committing homosexual acts.\nSmith argues \"we cannot help but read this work according to today’s conventions of dress and gesture\", saying:\n\nThe choice of pose for Wilde, which invokes familiar art historical and popular images of 'feminized masculinity', the use of colour for this ‘colourful character’ and his gaze directed at the nude male torso all coalesce with our knowledge of his homosexuality. We consequently see an overemphasis on his sexuality in this work, augmented by the nicknames given to it by Dubliners.\n"}
{"id": "11932210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11932210", "title": "Paula S. Apsell", "text": "Paula S. Apsell\n\nPaula Schwartz Apsell (born July 4, 1947)\n\nApsell, is the WGBH television executive producer of \"NOVA\" and director of the WGBH Science Unit. \n\nOn July 4, 1947, Apsell was born in Lynn, Massachusetts. Apsell grew up in Marblehead, Massachusetts. Her grandfather was a cobbler and an immigrant from Kiev.\n\nIn 1969, Apsell graduated from Brandeis University with a degree in psychology. \n\nApsell's career begin in broadcasting at WGBH. \nApsell is an executive producer and film director. \n\nIn 1994 she received the Boston Museum of Science Bradford Washburn Award for her career contributions to science journalism.\n\nIn 1983-84 MIT awarded her the Vannevar Bush Fellowship in the Public Understanding of Science. She studied evolutionary biology, and health policy among other topics\n\nApsell's husband is Sheldon Apsell Ph.D., a physicist, executive of MicroLogic, Inc and a Kronos. They have two daughters. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51188818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51188818", "title": "Piuma (film)", "text": "Piuma (film)\n\nPiuma is a 2016 Italian drama film directed by Roan Johnson. It was selected to compete for the Golden Lion at the 73rd Venice International Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "43104559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43104559", "title": "Postinternet", "text": "Postinternet\n\nPostinternet denotes an idea in arts and criticism that refers to society and modes of interaction following the widespread adoption of the internet. The term emerged from discussions about Internet Art by Marisa Olson, Gene McHugh, and Artie Vierkant. Guthrie Lonergan and Cory Arcangel have mentioned it as a term for being \"internet aware\", which some believe to be more accurate. Generally it is described as art that is about the internet's effects on aesthetics, culture and society.\n\nCritics of the term claim that it falsely implies that there is a kind of art made after the internet has ceased to exist (and artists such as Rafael Rozendaal have criticized the ambiguity of \"post-\" in this instance).\n\nThe idea of art post-internet was born in the wake of Internet Art, which gained significant traction in the early- to mid-2000s. Much like Internet Art, the postinternet art movement has roots in Dada, Fluxus, and exploration of net culture in general. Unlike Internet Art, postinternet art is less heavily influenced, at least in form, by telematic art, being more concerned in commenting on communications technology (the internet) than in being medium-native to the internet.\n\nWorks created within the postinternet paradigm often shares the aesthetics of the Internet Art, net.art and DataDada Art. It differs in that it does not use the internet only as a tool to produce art, but addresses the internet as a force that has altered social structures in both digital and physical spaces. Postinternet art is not necessarily art produced on the internet, but art that reflects the internet and the internet's effects on culture and society.\n\nPostinternet art has gained some attention because of Petra Cortright's work, \"BRIDAL SHOWER\" and notably also Katja Novitskova's work, \"Post Internet Survival Guide\". Postinternet art by Harm van den Dorpel has been covered on the Creators Project. In 2014, LaBeouf, Rönkkö & Turner described their collaborative practice as \"partly a response to how post-internet artists were using social media to promote their work and how that promotion became the work.\"\n\nSome critics have also applied the ideas of postinternet art in discussions of the use of the internet by some contemporary British and American poets, for instance Steve Roggenbuck, Sam Riviere and Steven Zultanski. Encompassing work otherwise frequently grouped under Alt lit, flarf or conceptual poetry, postinternet poetry articulates the ubiquity of the experience of internet and social media usage among poets, similar to the ideas in visual art described above, such that the internet touches all elements of a poem's composition and distribution without necessarily being an explicit focus of the work itself. As the conceptual poet Kenneth Goldsmith remarks in \"The New Yorker\", a postinternet poem \"seems to view the Internet with a shrug\".\n\nPostinternet art has been criticized as being art \"about\" the internet, rather than art \"of\" the internet, in the manner of Net Art. In doing so, postinternet art loses many of the structural benefits of Net Art, namely that postinternet art exists through the institution of physical galleries. While Net Art sought to redefine a space for its work, postinternet art is more rooted in an older, traditional notion of the role of art. The crisis of postinternet art is often characterized as a question of how the inherently intangible and democratized work resulting from internet content-creation paradigms can be monetized, and in this sense postinternet art is sometimes negatively described as the image of network-native art repackaged for the gallery or for sale.\n\nOn the contrary, it has also been proposed that postinternet is more like a condition for art making and critical thinking. Since the internet is no longer an option but a necessity in our society, one must also be critically aware of the internet's impact on society when making art. This is also clearly stated by Marisa Olson in an interview with \"\"we make money not art\"-\" blogger Regine Debatty;\n\n\"\"There doesn't seem to be a need to distinguish, any more, whether technology was used in making the work - after all, everything is a technology, and everyone uses technology to do everything. What is even more interesting is the way in which people are starting to make what I've called \"post-internet\" art in my own work (such as my\" Monitor Tracings\"), or what Guthrie Lonergan recently called \"Internet Aware Art\". I think it's important to address the impacts of the internet on culture at large, and this can be done well on networks but can and should also exist offline. Of course, it's an exciting challenge to explain to someone how this is still internet art... If that really matters\".\"\n\nFurthermore, it has been proposed by Stefan Heidenreich in discussions with students at \"The Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts\" during his lecture, \"Networks and Objects: On Postinternet, Speculative Realism, Media- or Network Theory and related artistic practises,\" that the strength of the postinternet term comes from it being undefinable or at least very difficult to define.\n\nArtist Paul Kneale discusses post internet in an interview with i-D. In the interview entitled 'Canadian Artist Paul Kneale Says Post Internet is Dead', Kneale rephrases the term calling it 'Post-Art Internet.' He uses this to highlight that categorising art in terms of the period it belongs to has lost its validity in the new age of internet. He states: \n\n″The thing we call 'art' is a historical period, like ancient art — it has a vague beginning point that makes it a period, and also an end, which is usually marked by a major changes in other areas of life. Quite possibly we've just witnessed this end. The thing that we call 'Internet' is a whole way of being in the world. It's the Internet you know from your browser window, but also the Internet of things and materials, and also the internet of minds, of tastes and feelings. After this passing historical period 'Art', you have this new period 'Internet'. So it makes sense to ask, what does that change mean for aesthetics? How do we present and represent in this new period?″\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18933496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18933496", "title": "Principia Discordia", "text": "Principia Discordia\n\nThe Principia Discordia is a Discordian religious text written by Greg Hill (Malaclypse the Younger) with Kerry Wendell Thornley (Lord Omar Khayyam Ravenhurst). The first edition was printed using Jim Garrison's Xerox printer in 1963. The second edition was published under the title \"Principia Discordia or How The West Was Lost\" in a limited edition of five copies in 1965. The phrase \"Principia Discordia\", reminiscent of Newton's \"Principia Mathematica\", is presumably intended to mean \"Discordant Principles\", or \"Principles of Discordance\".\n\nThe \"Principia\" describes the Discordian Society and its Goddess Eris, as well as the basics of the POEE denomination of Discordianism. It features typewritten and handwritten text intermixed with clip art, stamps, and seals appropriated from other sources.\n\nWhile the \"Principia\" is full of literal contradictions and unusual humor, it contains several passages which propose that there is serious intent behind the work, for example a message scrawled on page 00075: \"If you think the PRINCIPIA is just a ha-ha, then go read it again.\"\n\nThe \"Principia\" is quoted extensively in and shares many themes with the satirical science fiction book \"The Illuminatus! Trilogy\" by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson. Wilson was not directly involved in writing the Principia.\n\nNotable symbols in the book include the Apple of Discord, the pentagon, and the \"Sacred Chao\", which resembles the Taijitu of Taoism, but the two principles depicted are \"Hodge\" and \"Podge\" rather than yin and yang, and they are represented by the apple and the pentagon, and not by dots. Saints identified include Emperor Norton, Yossarian, Don Quixote, and Bokonon. The \"Principia\" also introduces the mysterious word \"fnord\", later popularized in \"The Illuminatus! Trilogy\"; the trilogy itself is mentioned in the afterword to the Loompanics edition, and in the various introductions to the fifth editions.\n\nThe \"Principia Discordia\" holds three core principles: the Aneristic Principle (order), the Eristic Principle (disorder) and the notion that both are mere illusions. The following excerpt summarizes these principles:\n\nThe \"Principia Discordia or How The West Was Lost\" was first published in a limited edition of five copies and released into the public domain in 1965. The full title of the fourth and most well-known edition is \"Principia Discordia or How I Found Goddess And What I Did To Her When I Found Her: The Magnum Opiate Of Malaclypse The Younger, Wherein is Explained Absolutely Everything Worth Knowing About Absolutely Anything\".Included on page 00075 is the following note about the history of the \"Principia\":\n\nAdditionally, the \"contents of this edition\" note in the Loompanics edition identifies the fourth edition as having originally been published by Rip Off Press of San Francisco, California.\n\nA \"Fifth Edition\" consisting of a single Western Union telegram page filled with the letter M was published as an appendix to the Loompanics and SJ Games re-printings of the 4th Edition.\n\nIn 1978, a copy of a work from Kerry Thornley titled \"THE PRINCIPIA Discordia or HOW THE WEST WAS LOST\" was placed in the HSCA JFK collections as document 010857. Adam Gorightly, author of \"The Prankster and the Conspiracy\" about Kerry Thornley and the early Discordians, said the copy in the JFK collection was not a copy of the first edition but a later and altered version containing some of the original material. In an interview with researcher Brenton Clutterbuck, Gorightly said he had been given Greg Hill's copy of the first edition. This appeared in its entirety in \"Historia Discordia\", a book on Discordian history released in spring of 2014.\n\nThe \"Principia\" includes a notice which purports to disclaim any copyright in relation to the work: \"Ⓚ All Rites Reversed – reprint what you like.\" Regardless of the legal effect of this notice, the \"Principia\" has been widely disseminated in the public domain via the Internet and more traditional print publishers. Some re-publishers have claimed copyright in relation to the additional material included in their editions.\n\nReprints of the Fourth and Fifth Editions:\n\n\nIn Discordian mythology, Aneris is described as the sister of Eris aka Discordia. Whereas Eris/Discordia is the Goddess of Disorder and Being, Aneris/Harmonia is the Goddess of Order and Non-Being.\n\n\"DOGMA III – HISTORY 32, 'COSMOGONY'\" in \"Principia Discordia\", states\n\nThe sterile Aneris becomes jealous of Eris (who was born pregnant), and starts making existent things non-existent. This explains why life begins, and later ends in death.\n\nThe names of Eris and Aneris (who are later given a brother, \"Spirituality\"), are used to show some fundamental Discordian principles in \"Psycho-Metaphysics\":\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20840826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20840826", "title": "Shetland Arts", "text": "Shetland Arts\n\nShetland Arts Development Agency or Shetland Arts for short, is a Scottish charity formed in 2006 (to replace the Shetland Arts Trust) with a remit to \"encourage and assist in promoting and advancing the creation, practice and presentation and study of all forms of art - visual, performing and creative.\"\n\nThe organisation, based in Mareel, manage the Weisdale Mill (an art gallery, museum and cafe), the Garrison Theatre and the Mareel cinema, music and education venue.\n\nMusic is an important aspect of their work and the \"Fiddle Frenzy\" traditional music summer school and cultural event is now in its fifth year, the 2008 event building on earlier successes. Shetland Arts intend to produce a comprehensive database of Shetland music.\n\nShetland Arts' annual programme of events also includes the Peerie Willie Guitar Festival, the ScreenPlay Film Festival (curated by Mark Kermode and Linda Ruth Williams) and the WordPlay Literature Festival.\n\nShetland Arts' OSCR Charity Number is SC037082\n\n"}
{"id": "1424235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1424235", "title": "Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts", "text": "Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts\n\nThe Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts ( (SAZU)) is the national academy of Slovenia, which encompasses science and the arts and brings together the top Slovene researchers and artists as members of the academy.\n\nEstablished in 1938, the Slovene Academy of Sciences and Arts (SAZU) is the supreme national institution for science and the arts. It associates scientists and artists who have been elected as its members for their outstanding achievements in the field of sciences and arts. It cultivates, encourages and promotes sciences and arts and, through its activities, contributes to the development of scientific thought and creativity in the arts, particularly by: addressing basic issues of sciences and arts; participating in establishing the policies of research activities and creativity in arts; giving appraisals, proposals and opinions on the position, development and promotion of sciences and arts and on the organisation of research activities and creativity in the arts; organising research work, also in co-operation with universities and other research institutions, particularly in the fields which are important for the awareness of and gaining insight into the natural and cultural heritage of the Slovene nation and for the development of its language and culture; and developing international co-operation in the field of sciences and arts.\n\nThe president (acting president currently ), the two vice-presidents, the secretary general and the secretaries of its various sections are elected for a period of three years with the possibility of one further re-election. SAZU can have a maximum of 60 full and 30 associate members; at present it has 84 full and 10 associate members. It can also have a maximum of 90 corresponding members from scientific institutions abroad; at present it has 85 such members.\n\nSAZU is active in different fields of research, as reflected in the corresponding six sections of the Academy: The Section of Historical and Social Sciences has 11 full members, three associate members and 19 corresponding members, and comprises two subsections, Historical Sciences and Social Sciences. The Section of Philological and Literary Sciences has 15 full members, two associate members and 16 corresponding members. The Section of Mathematical, Physical, Chemical and Technical Sciences has 15 full members, four associate members and 17 corresponding members and comprises two subsections, Mathematical, Physical and Chemical Sciences and Technical Sciences. The Section of Natural Sciences has 12 full members, two associate members and eight corresponding members. The Section of Medical Sciences has nine full members, two associate members and 11 corresponding members. And the Section of Arts has 12 full members, six associate members and 14 corresponding members.\n\nSAZU has founded 17 important research institutes from the fields of the humanities and natural sciences, each of which functions an autonomous research organisation, yet falls under the overall management of the Academy's Research Centre (ZRC SAZU).\n\nSAZU also has several special units, including the Department for International Relations and Scientific Co-ordination is headed by a full member of SAZU and the Slovene Academy of Sciences and Arts (SAZU) Library, the third largest library in Slovenia, which regularly exchanges publications with scientific institutions all over the world.\n\nSAZU was established in 1938 and was initially named \"Academy of Sciences and Arts\" (AZU). On 23 January 1943, AZU breached the cultural silence. Due to the efforts of Milan Vidmar, the epithet \"Slovenian\" was added to its name in 1943 with a decree by Leon Rupnik, the mayor of Ljubljana under the Italian annexation. The renaming was disregarded after the war. \n\nIn autumn 1945, the National Government of Slovenia led by Boris Kidrič took autonomy from the Academy and again named it Academy of Sciences and Arts. The literary historian France Kidrič was elected its president, and confirmed for the second term in 1948. In 1948, it lost even more autonomy and was renamed to the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts again. The academy lost its members with the new act and 30 days later ceased to exist. In 1949, an amendment to the act was passed that allowed for membership not only of scientists and artists, but also of those the deeds of which had a \"special significance\". In this manner, Josip Broz - Tito and Edvard Kardelj became its honorary members. Boris Kidrič, Josip Vidmar and Boris Ziherl were elected members, which significantly influenced the development of the Academy.\n\nAccording to the Soviet scheme of development, the Institute of Physics and the Institute of Chemistry were established in 1946, followed by the Institute of Electrical Economics four years later. Despite this, humanistics, social sciences and classical natural history remained the dominating fields. In 1950, there were ten institutes, one board and one committee, among them the Institute of Slovene language and the Institute of Literatures. In this time, the Academy divided into five classes: a class for historical and social sciences, a class for philological and literary sciences, a class for mathematical-physical and technical sciences, a class for natural history and medicine, and a class for arts. This make its composition similar to the current one.\n\nSAZU joined the European Scientific Foundation in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13763441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13763441", "title": "Swastik Rangoli Kalakar Group", "text": "Swastik Rangoli Kalakar Group\n\nSwastik Rangoli Kalakar Group is a Vadodara (Gujarat) based group formed in 1985 by rangoli enthusiasts who decided to work collectively and promote this almost forgotten traditional Indian art.\n\n"}
{"id": "47339210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47339210", "title": "Taşçı reliefs", "text": "Taşçı reliefs\n\nThe two Taşçı reliefs are rock reliefs from the time of the Hittite empire. They are two kilometres south of in Develi district, Kayseri Province, Turkey. They are known in Turkish as \"Yazılı Kaya\" (\"Inscribed cliffs\"). Rock reliefs are a prominent aspect of Hittite art. \n\nAt Taşçı the Zamantı Irmağı river is met by the Şamaz Dere river (also known as the Homur Suyu), which has its source at Bakırdağ to the south. At this spot the river passes through a narrow gorge with steep cliffs on either side; the two reliefs known as Taşçı A and B are on the left bank, les than a hundred metres apart. No travel route can have passed through the gorge at the time when the reliefs were created, since the creation of the modern road required advanced stone blasting work. This, the location by the water, and the presence of caves above the reliefs suggests the site had a ritual function.\n\nThe north relief, Taşçı A, lies near the bank, about two metres above the water level, and now rises less than a metre above the soil which has built up around about. On the right hand side, it shows three robed figures facing right, who are covered by soil up to their hips. Their outlines are marked with depp grooves. The left figure is the best preserved - he is the only one where internal details can be made out. Ribbons run over their heads, a cloth hangs over their backs; from these details the figure appears to be female. Her eyes and chin are still visible, the nose and mouth area is broken. The two left figures each extend an arm; according to the 1939 sketch by Ignace Gelb, the right figure had the same posture, but this cannot be seen any more on account of heavy weathering. The central and right figures, who wear round caps, are only visible as silhouettes. All three figures are generally interpreted as priests.\n\nAbove the heads are inscriptions in Luwian hieroglyphs; the symbols on the left can be grouped together, while the symbols on the right are not preserved. Their poor condition makes them difficult to read. Only the name of the left, female figure can be read, as \"Ma-na-a-za/i\". She is further identified as the \"daughter of Lubakkis, the son of the military scribe.\" Another group of hieroglyphs are located to the left of the three figures, which name another person - John David Hawkins reads \"Bodyguard Zida, servant of Hattusili, the Great King, the hero.\" This Zida is not depicted, but he is probably the creator of the relief.\n\nLess than 100 metres upstream is Taşçı B on a boulder which is right on the bank and is covered by water when the water level is high. The relief depicts a male figure facing right. He wears a round cap with a horn, the long robes of a priest and a stole which hangs over his shoulders. His right hand is held in pose of greeting, his left is stretched out. A holy symbol which is reserved for actual gods can be seen above. Three hieroglyphs below his arms have been read in differing ways by different researcher, but his name cannot be made out.\n\nThere is a cave in the cliff-face above Taşçı A, from which a shaft descends vertically. It is now filled with soil, but it probably reached the water level. There is also a cave in the cliff face behind Taşçı B, with a similar shaft. The two caves and the location of the reliefs by the water suggest that the place had a ritual function. The orientation of the priestly figure upstream, in the direction of the fields at water level suggests that they performed a protective role for the surrounding area and for a (presumed) settlement in the area.\n\nThe reliefs are dated to around the 13th century BC by their inscriptions.\n\nA short description and first reading of Taşçı A were published by Hans Rott and Leopold Messerschmidt after Rott's visit to Anatloia in 1906. Guillaume de Jerphanion produced another account in the same year. Ignace Gelb uncovered the lower part of the relief in 1935 and published a sketch and a photograph. Taşçı B was first described by Sedat Alp and Ekrem Akurgal in 1947. Subsequently, Hans Gustav Güterbock visited the place in 1954. The first published account of both reliefs was produced by Piero Meriggi in 1975, after his first trip to Anatolia. His understanding of the inscriptions agreed closely with that of Gelb, unlike the work of Franz Steinherr published in the same year. The latter was followed by Markus Wäfler. Another account was published by Kay Kohlmeyer in 1983 and finally Horst Ehringhaus published a description in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1503202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1503202", "title": "Ten American Painters", "text": "Ten American Painters\n\nThe Ten American Painters (also known as The Ten) was an artists' group formed in 1898 to exhibit their work as a unified group. John Henry Twachtman, J. Alden Weir, and Childe Hassam were the driving forces behind the organization. Dissatisfied with the conservatism of the American art establishment, the three artists recruited seven others from Boston, New York City, and elsewhere on the East Coast, with the intention of creating an exhibition society that valued their view of originality, imagination, and exhibition quality. The Ten achieved popular and critical success, and lasted two decades before dissolving.\n\nIn America, popular painting styles usually originated on the east coast in cities like New York and Boston. The Ten continued a tradition of artists forming new groups in reaction to a lack of support from existing artists' groups. Thus, the National Academy of Design (founded in 1825 by students dissatisfied by the conservatism of the older American Academy of the Fine Arts) eventually became too conservative to suit the artists who in 1877 initiated the Society of American Artists so they could meet and exhibit their work as a collective. The Ten American Painters was born from this group in 1898, when Twachtman, Weir, and Hassam found the Society hostile to the Impressionist style they had adopted. Leaving the group was considered a bold move by the general public, but the Society of American Artists felt that it was easier to let the members that were leaving go than appease them.\n\nImpressionism was a French art movement that emerged in the 1870s, and was picked up by American painters towards the end of the 19th century. Painters like Edgar Degas, Claude Monet and Auguste Renoir are generally considered the masters of the impressionist movement. An Impressionist painting will often use small dabs of color in order to make the painting distinguishable from afar, but indistinguishable from up close.\n\nThe founding members of The Ten were Frank W. Benson, Joseph Rodefer DeCamp, Thomas Wilmer Dewing, Childe Hassam, Willard Leroy Metcalf, Robert Reid, Edward Simmons, Edmund C. Tarbell, John Henry Twachtman, and J. Alden Weir. All were former members of the Society of American Artists. Winslow Homer declined an invitation to join the group; Abbott Handerson Thayer accepted membership but withdrew before the group's first exhibition. After J. H. Twachtman died in 1902, William Merritt Chase joined in his place. Unanimous approval was required to admit a new member to the society. It was also decided that there would never be less than ten members active for the group to remain as one. \n\nFor twenty years The Ten exhibited in New York, Boston, Philadelphia, and other American cities. After this it dissolved due to death in its ranks and lack of public interest.\n"}
{"id": "6830909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6830909", "title": "The Bee and the Orange Tree", "text": "The Bee and the Orange Tree\n\nThe Bee and the Orange Tree is a French literary fairy tale by Madame d'Aulnoy.\n\nAfter many childless years, a king and queen had a daughter, whom they named Aimée. Unfortunately, a ship she was on, wrecked. As fate would have it, she drifted ashore in her cradle. There, an ogre couple found her, and the ogress resolved to raise Aimee, instead of eating her, resolving that the infant would make a good wife for her son when she grew up. The ogress summoned a hind from the woods to nurse the baby. After fifteen years, the king and queen gave up hope of locating the princess and the king told his brother to send his best son to be the heir to the throne. The brother chose his second son.\n\nMeanwhile, Aimee grew up among the ogres. A little ogre had fallen in love with her, but the thought of marrying him revolted her. She regularly walked along the shore after storms, to protect things swept ashore from the ogres, and one day she found a man. She saved the man, who happened to be her cousin, although neither of them knew the truth or could speak each other's language. She managed to make him understand that he had to hide in a cave. After some time hiding and feeding him, she wished to show her friendship and gave him a locket she wore. This had her name on it, and the prince deduced from her looks that she was indeed his cousin, the princess Aimee.\n\nThe little ogre decided it was time for them to marry, and horror-struck, Aimee fled to the prince. When she returned, she injured her foot on a thorn and could no longer walk. The prince wondered why she did not come, and when he tried to find her, he was captured.\n\nNow, every night, the ogres all put on golden crowns before they went to bed. The princess snuck in that night, took a crown from the head of a little ogre, and put it on the prince's head. The ogre woke up, seized on the sleeping little ogre who no longer had a crown, and ate him. Again the next night, the princess stole a crown from one of the ogres to place on the Prince's head. This time, the ogress ate the crown-less ogre.\n\nThe princess remembered the magic wand that the ogress had used to summon the hind. With it, she gave herself the power to speak the prince's language. He told her who she was, and the princess decided to steal the ogres' camel so they could ride away to safety. She used the wand to enchant a bean to hide their escape. It spoke whenever the ogress asked anything. Finally, however, the ogress realized they had fled. The ogre used his seven-league boots to follow.\n\nWhen the ogre caught up, the princess turned herself into a boatwoman, the prince into a boat, and the camel into a lake; to confuse the ogre. He found nothing, but when he returned, the ogress told him how they had been transformed with her stolen magic wand, and so he set out to find them again. This time Aimmee turned herself into a dwarf, the prince into a portrait, and the camel into a pillar. When the ogre reached her, she told an elaborate story about how the prince had fought in a tournament in honor of the lady in the picture. Confused again, the ogre returned home.\n\nThis time the ogress came after them. The princess turned the prince into an orange tree, herself into a bee, and the camel into a box. The princess stung the ogress and drove her off, but some travelers carried off the wand. Without the wand, the Princess was unable to change the group back into their prior forms.\n\nA princess, Linda, loved to walk in the woods where the orange tree stood. Linda tried to have the tree transplanted into her gardens, Aimee stung Linda out of jealousy. This caused the prince and princess to quarrel, but they soon reconciled. When Linda tried again, Aimee stung her again. Linda tried to arm herself with a branch, but when she did, blood flowed from the tree. Aimee went to fetch a balm for the wound.\n\nA fairy visited the princess and when she detected the enchantment, the fairy restored the prince. He told his story, and she restored Aimee as well, and then brought them to her parents, where they married.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52142843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52142843", "title": "The Holy Family with Three Hares", "text": "The Holy Family with Three Hares\n\nThe Holy Family with Three Hares is a c. 1496 woodcut by German artist Albrecht Dürer (1471–1528). It depicts the Christian Holy Family of Mary, Joseph, and the infant Jesus, in an enclosed garden, symbolizing Mary's virginity. The infant Jesus is reading from what is very probably a book of scripture, representing his close connection with the Word of God, not only because in Christianity he fulfills the Old Testament prophecy of a messiah, but also because in some Christian traditions Jesus has been described as the word of God.\n"}
{"id": "3946684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3946684", "title": "The Mays", "text": "The Mays\n\nThe Mays Literary Anthology (or just The Mays) is an anthology of new writing by students from the University of Oxford and the University of Cambridge. In 1992, when Peter Ho Davies, Adrian Woolfson, and Ron Dimant came up with the original concept for the \"Mays\", the publication was split into two separate anthologies; one devoted to prose and the other to poetry. In 2003 the \"Mays\" became a single publication.\n\nEach year, the \"Mays\" receives hundreds of submissions from students at Oxford and Cambridge. In 2006 the \"Mays\" received a record 1,100 entries. The Editorial Committee (composed of students from both universities) review the submissions during Lent Term.\n\n\"The Mays\" is broader in scope than most university literary projects: it is sold in bookstores and by delivery nationwide; it is distributed to every major literary agent; and each year a guest editor — usually a prominent author, poet, or artist — writes an introduction to the anthology. Previous guest editors include: Margaret Drabble and Jon Stallworthy (1992), Michael Dibdin and Seamus Heaney (1993), Stephen Fry (1994), Ted Hughes (1995), Penelope Fitzgerald (1996), Christopher Reid and Jill Paton Walsh (1997), Sebastian Faulks and J.H. Prynne (1998), Penelope Lively and John Kinsella (1999), Paul Muldoon and Lawrence Norfolk (2000), Zadie Smith and Michael Donaghy (2001), Andrew Motion and Nick Cave (2002), Ali Smith (2003), Philip Pullman (2004), Robert Macfarlane (2005), Don Paterson and Jeanette Winterson (2006), Colm Toibin (2007), Ian Patterson (2008), Patti Smith (2009), Amit Chaudhuri, Tom Raworth (2010), , Jarvis Cocker (2011), John Darnielle, Tao Lin, Toby Litt (2012), Michael Frayn, David Harsent, Tom Phillips (2013), John Fuller, Paul Farley, Ben Okri, Prajwal Parajuly, Emma Chichester Clark and Alexander Gilkes (2014), Roger Mcgough and Rupi Kaur (2016).\n\n\"The Mays\" is often noted for launching the career of novelist Zadie Smith. Her work appears in two of the short story editions (1996 and 1997). Literary agencies first took notice of Smith after seeing her story \"Mrs. Begum’s Son and the Private Tutor\" in the 1997 collection. Smith guest edited the \"Mays\" in 2001. Her quip \"maybe in a few years this lot will have me out of a job\" has become a catch phrase for the publication.\n\n\"The Mays\" is associated with Varsity Publications Ltd, which publishes \"Varsity\". The cost of publication is funded in part by donations from various Oxford and Cambridge colleges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52957931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52957931", "title": "The World of Anna Sui", "text": "The World of Anna Sui\n\nThe World of Anna Sui was an exhibition housed at London's Fashion and Textile Museum from 26 May to 1 October 2017.\n\nThe exhibition was curated by the museum's head curator Dennis Nothdruft and focused on the effect Sui's work has had on the history of fashion design. The exhibit featured over 100 looks from the Sui’s archive, spanning the entirety the designer's career from 1981 to 2017. It also marked the first time an American fashion designer had been the feature of a retrospective exhibit in the United Kingdom. One key theme of the exhibition was the exploration of national identity through the medium of fashion and textiles.\n\n"}
{"id": "22419720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22419720", "title": "Ulzzang", "text": "Ulzzang\n\nUlzzang (, ), also spelled as eoljjang or gue lanjiao (), is a popular South Korean term literally meaning \"best face\" or \"good-looking\". A person desiring \"ulzzang\" status would gain popularity on the internet through entering contests where their photos are judged and chosen by voters. The trend is unisex and is practised by both males and females.\n\nThe popularity and influence of Korean popular culture throughout Asia has led to ulzzangs becoming a trend in Asian countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and certain parts of South Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "9318353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9318353", "title": "Underground Voices", "text": "Underground Voices\n\nUnderground Voices is an independent American book publisher. Originally started as an online literary magazine in 2004, it expanded into a small press in 2009. In 2013, it became an independent book publisher. Underground Voices is based in Los Angeles.\n\nWork published has been awarded or received honorable mention in the following:\n\n\n\nAuthors\n\nPoets\n\nArtists\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4537000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4537000", "title": "Unsigned artist", "text": "Unsigned artist\n\nAn unsigned artist, unsigned band or independent artist is a musician or musical group not under a contract with a record label. The terms are used in the music industry as a marketing technique. Bands that release their own material on self-published CDs can also be considered unsigned bands. Often unsigned bands primarily exist to perform at concerts.\n\nIn more recent years, the Internet has helped promote the music of unsigned bands. Artists often post their music as MP3s on websites such as Bandcamp, SoundCloud, Myspace, PureVolume, GarageBand.com and SoundClick.\n\nIn 2016, the Unsigned Music Awards was established in the UK as the first ever televised international awards ceremony to champion artists without the backing of a record label.\n\nUK unsigned bands and musicians are able to use such services as The Unsigned Guide and to gather music industry contact names, phone numbers, websites and social media links, as well as information on how to get signed or market music independently.\n\nSong pitching websites, such as TAXI allow unsigned musicians to see which record labels (and other music companies) are currently seeking new music.\n\nFurther, companies like Sentric Music and the royalty payment service offered by Last.fm can help in generating income streams for unsigned bands.\n\nMany unsigned artists used to sell their music and music-related merchandise without the financial support of a record label, while often seeking a recording contract through the recording of demos. Recently, the Internet has helped promote independent artistic material. Artists tend to post their music on websites such as MySpace, and ILike, and sometimes have their music played on podcast shows like Kooba Radio. In recent times, artists such as Nine Inch Nails and Radiohead, who once had major label record deals, have started to release their music independently.\n\nVarious musicians remain independent in their beginning of their music career but later on get a record deal and continue as a signed musician. But this concept changed when major artists such as The Eagles and Nine Inch Nails became independent and parted their ways with record labels such as Interscope.\n\nMany services are offered to independent musicians like Cdbaby, Feiyr, Nimbit and Tunecore by which the artists can retain the copyrights of their songs and also deliver their music to various stores including iTunes Store, Amazon MP3, Napster, Spotify, etc.\n\nInternet promotion has been the key for some bands for getting popular. Bands like the Arctic Monkeys, Owl City, and solo artists like Lily Allen have gained popularity through Myspace, although the Arctic Monkeys did not even know what MySpace was, and claimed that fans made it for them.\n\nUnsigned bands have become more popular with Internet users and have been able to break into the mainstream charts. They are now finding many resources across the Internet to promote, market, and sell their music almost free of charge.\n\nUnsigned charts are now being promoted on almost all the underground music sites and has seen many of the domain owners spending large amounts of money on developing these charts to bring bands to them. A number of these are now additionally registered with the official charts.\n\nBlog sites have become popular, as they regularly feature reviews or interviews with unsigned artists. Other blog sites have offered helpful guidance and resources for new unsigned artists. Similar to bloggers, music curators including podcasts, DJs, and Youtube channels are all dedicated to finding quality new songs from unsigned artists for online audiences to discover.\n\nThe music promotion site, Feature.fm, has emerged to allow artists to promote their music natively directly inside music streaming services.\n\nMajor record company Universal Music entered into a joint venture with Tunecore to distribute albums online on major stores.\nThe record labels which entered into venture are Interscope(Interscope Digital Distribution), Universal Motown (Unimo Digital Distribution), Island Def Jam (IDJ FirstLook) and Universal Republic (Republic Digital Distribution).\nIsland Def Jam Music Group partnered with Tunecore to launch IDJ Firstlook, a new web portal that provides unsigned artists with potential access to such coveted major label services as worldwide distribution and marketing.\n\nArtists can also create their own record labels and sell their music under the label's imprint as well. Services such as Nimbit gives facilities for independent musicians to release their music independently as well as under a record label create by artist itself. Other efforts made in this field include Magnatune, an independent record label based in Berkeley, California, United States.\n\nNotable artists who have never been signed to a record label include Chance the Rapper, Noname (rapper) and David Choi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164000", "title": "Usha Khanna", "text": "Usha Khanna\n\nUsha Khanna (; born 7 October 1941) is an Indian music director in Hindi cinema. She is the third female music director to enter the Indian film industry, after Jaddan Bai and Saraswati Devi and is one of the most commercially successful music directors in the male dominated music industry. She is most known for songs like Hum tum say juda ho ke (ek sapaira ek lutaira, 1965) \"Chhodo kal ki baatein\", \"Shaayad meri shaadi ka khayal\", \"Zindagi pyaar ka geet hai\" and \"Aap to aise na the\". She remained active for more than 3 decades from 1960s to 1980s. She is still active making some music for some movies and television-serials, more than 40 years after her debut as music director in Dil Deke Dekho (1959). She received a Filmfare Award nomination for composing the songs for the huge hit film \"Souten \"(1983). She was married to director, producer, lyricist, Sawan Kumar Tak, from whom she separated later on.\n\nBorn in Gwalior, her father, Manohar Khanna, was a lyricist and singer, working as Assistant Superintendent in the Water Works Department in then Gwalior State. When he came to Bombay (now Mumbai) for some work in 1946 he met Jaddanbai who was mother of Hindi film actress Nargis Dutt.On her request he started writing Gazals for Hindi films by the name, Jaaved Anwar .He was getting a monthly salary of Rs. 250 in Gwalior State and Jaddanabi offered him Rs. 800 for 3 gazals which he wrote for Jaddanbai,s Nargis Art Productions film Romeo Juliet . Usha Khanna did often take inspiration from Arabic music, which she liked and she claims that she has never lifted any song directly, but that she has composed something along the lines.\n\nThe popular music director O. P. Nayyar introduced Usha Khanna to Sashadhar Mukherjee, a powerful man in the Indian film industry at that time. She sang a song for Mukherjee, and when he realised that she had composed the song on her own, he told her to compose two songs per day for one year. After a few months, Mukherjee signed her as the composer for his movie \"Dil Deke Dekho\" (1959) as a music composer. The film, which also introduced the actress Asha Parekh, became a big hit, and Mukherjee hired her again for another Asha Parekh starrer Hum Hindustani (1961).\n\nAfter she started composing music for Hindi movies, Usha Khanna struggled to establish herself as a music director, despite producing many hit songs. She often collaborated with Asha Bhosle, who referred to Usha Khanna as her daughter, and Mohammed Rafi. This trio produced many hit songs.Many of songs sung by Mohammed Rafi under composition of Usha Khanna are still very popular and will be everlasting forever. DIL DEKE DEKHO (1959). HAWAS (1974), SAJAAN KI SAHELI (1981),AAP THO AISE NA THE (1980) as to named a few good songs of movie of Rafi Usha Association. \n\nSaawan Kumar was often the lyricist for Usha Khanna, and wrote most of his lyrics for her songs. He directed and produced the lyrics for eleven movies she scored the music for. In 1979 K. J. Yesudas received Filmfare award for her song \"Dil ke tukde tukde\" in the film Dada. \nUsha Khanna was married to Sawan Kumar Tak but later they separated and she lives in Bombay (present name Mumbai).\n\nThe effort she had put earlier in life to establish herself in the industry, made her realise how difficult it was to break through, and this made her often give the chance to new singers. She gave the chance to the singers who were little known at that time – Anupama Deshpande, Pankaj Udhas, Hemlata, Mohammed Aziz, Roop Kumar Rathod, Shabbir Kumar, and Sonu Nigam. Many of these went on to become notable singers. Usha Khanna herself also sang a few songs as a playback singer.\n\nMany of Usha Khanna's songs are still very popular. Some of the other movies she provided for are 'Shabnam', 'Aankh Micholi', \"Saajan Bina Suhagan\", 'Sautan', 'Sajan ki Saheli', 'Ab Kya Hoga', 'Lal Bungalow', 'Dada', 'Do Khiladi', 'Hanste Khelte'.\n\nUsha Khanna remained quite active as a composer until the mid-nineties. Until now, the last movie she has given music to was in 2003. The movie was Dil Pardesi Ho Gaya, produced and directed by her ex-husband Saawan Kumar who she was briefly married to.\n\nUsha Khanna has given music to non-Hindi movies too. The Malayalam movie Moodal Manju (1969) is still remembered for some of the finest songs in Malayalam including 'Nee Madhu Pakaroo' by K. J. Yesudas and 'Maanasa Mani veenayil' by S.Janaki. Agni nilavu and Puthooram Puthri Unniyarcha are the other Malayalam movies done by her. Why she did not get many chances remains a mystery for many music lovers even now.\n\n"}
{"id": "42537314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42537314", "title": "Watsonville (play)", "text": "Watsonville (play)\n\nWatsonville: Some Place Not Here is a three-act 1996 play by Cherríe Moraga. It depicts a cannery strike in Watsonville, California. \"Watsonville\" and the 1995 play \"Circle in the Dirt\" were published together in a single book by the West End Press. It is the sequel to the 1994 play \"Heroes and Saints\". The play was a project of Stanford University.\n\nPareles wrote that \"Watsonville\" criticizes anti-immigration policies in California and Mexican-Americans perceived to have sold out to Anglo culture, or \"vendidos\", who believe such policies should be compromised with. Ruben Mendoza of \"\" wrote that the play uses a communal third place (also known as a third space) to criticize \"capitalist spatial practice\". In addition the play also discusses the labor movement's gender and immigrant rights situation.\n\nMoraga stated that the play is based \"loosely on three actual events that took place in a central California coastal farm worker town by the same name.\" These events were a 1985–1987 cannery strike, a 1989 7.1 Richter scale earthquake, and a vision of the Lady of Guadalupe in the Pinto Lake county park. Lisa B. Thompson of the \"Theatre Journal\" wrote that there is \"drama with vibrant dialogue and compelling, diverse characters\" because Moraga did not use the words of those she interviewed for research purposes verbatim and instead \"the voices Moraga listened to while researching the plays merge with her own.\"\n\n\"Watsonville\" has select phrases and sentences in the dialog in the Spanish language instead of English. The play, along with \"Circle in the Dirt\", uses dialog that is a mixture of English and Spanish to paraphrase the content of the interviews conducted by Moraga; most of the actual interviews were done entirely in Spanish. The music in the play includes bolero, cumbia, and rap. Some of the music includes original compositions.\n\nIn the play, set in the mid-1990s, workers in a Watsonville, California cannery strike. The workers at the Pajaro Valley Cannery strike partly because they want additional rights, and also because they want to be paid better wages. As strategies the workers use a type of protest theater used by \"El Teatro Campesino\" and they also use hunger strikes in the manner done by César Chávez. At the same time, the area Latino community faces divisions as anti-immigration legislation is being proposed in California. During the play the politicians deliberate on Bill 1519, which is intended to separate the workers into legal residents and illegal immigrants as a way to divide them, referring to real-life border control legislation. Marissa Pareles of the \"Lambda Book Report\" wrote that \"the end of the play \"has only a bit of a Deus ex Machina feeling about it\".\n\nLisa B. Thompson wrote that realism is the predominant atmosphere of the work, but that the work highlights the importance of the spiritual aspect of protesting by giving some characters relationships with spirits of the deceased and also having the Virgin of Guadalupe appear on a tree trunk. An earthquake with the magnitude 7.5 occurs during the story.\n\n\n\n"}
