{"id": "19471182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19471182", "title": "Abulhasan", "text": "Abulhasan\n\nAbulhasan, Abolhasan, Abu al-Hasan, etc. may refer to: \n\n"}
{"id": "31915475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31915475", "title": "Aghilès Benchaâbane", "text": "Aghilès Benchaâbane\n\nAghilès Benchaâbane (born September 13, 1989) is an Algerian footballer. He currently plays for USM Annaba in the Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1.\n\nIn 2008, Benchaâbane was called up to the Algerian Under-20 National Team for a 2009 African Youth Championship qualifier against Mauritania. He came in as a substitute in the 63rd minute as the game ended 0-0.\n\n"}
{"id": "56721529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56721529", "title": "Aldrich, Devourer of Gods", "text": "Aldrich, Devourer of Gods\n\nAldrich, Devourer of Gods (also known as Aldrich, Saint of the Deep) is a fictional character and boss in the action role-playing game \"Dark Souls III\". A former human and cleric, he became a sentient monster of sludge due to his cannibalistic tendencies. He is also a Lord of Cinder in the game's lore, a being who rekindled the First Flame. Aldrich received critical acclaim for the difficulty and visuals of his boss fight, as well as his depiction in the game's lore and links to \"Dark Souls\".\n\nAldrich is only seen in his monstrous form during the game, although he appears in the comic \"Dark Souls #1\" in human form. Once a cleric, he is stated to have become \"infamous\" due to the pleasure he took from consuming human flesh. Compared to some of his followers, Aldrich retained his mind while devolving into a snake-like being of black sludge covered in the skeletal remains of his victims prior to being locked in a stone \"coffin\" within the Cathedral of the Deep. He was later forced to become a sacrifice when the First Flame began to fade. He was resurrected upon the rise of the Unkindled, refusing to surrender his new power as a Lord of Cinder to rekindle the First Flame and fled to Anor Londo. Prior to being confronted by the player, Aldrich had partially devoured Anor Londo's deity Dark Sun Gwyndolin, assimilating the deity's memories and torso to defend himself with both Gwyndolin's powers and a recreation of Priscilla's Lifehunt Scythe.\n\nAldrich is also the focus of an in-game covenant, the Aldrich Faithful, which encourages attacking other players who attempt to make their way to fight him.\n\nAldrich's character and that of the Cathedral of the Deep are based on Lovecraftian themes, with his name being similar to \"eldritch\" knowledge. The cathedral's ambiance and enemies exhibit oceanic sounds and designs that depict Aldrich's worship of a \"dark, abyssal realm\" known as the Deep.\n\nAldrich's purple clothing was stated to be \"the color of authority\" and evidence that he held a high rank.\n\nRock, Paper, Shotgun's Edwin Evans-Thirlwell called Aldrich the best video game boss of 2016, saying that he is \"the focus of the game's shift into the realm of the macabre\". Calling him an example of the gluttony that marks the key antagonists of \"Dark Souls\", he states that Aldrich's cannibalism is also the most \"pointed\" exploration of the parallel between the harmfulness of unnatural longevity and making sequels. He also says that the fight may seem anti-climactic compared to Ornstein and Smough, who are fought in the same arena, and that this is on purpose due to the fact that Aldrich is a pitiful figure who lost his own identity trying to consume others.\n\nJames Davenport of PC Gamer called Aldrich \"one of the most obvious, influential and nuanced\" villains in the \"Dark Souls\" series, suggesting that he was planning to subvert the fire-linking process by embracing the \"darker plane\" of the Deep. He also praised the fact that \"Dark Souls III\" \"spends entire zones\" characterizing Aldrich rather than making him a mere boss.\n\nAldrich was voted the 5th hardest boss in \"Dark Souls III\" by the IGN community, citing his powerful magical attacks. He was also named as one of the best bosses in the game by GamesRadar+, calling his attacks \"impressive\" and requiring constant motion for the player to stay alive.\n"}
{"id": "53310274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53310274", "title": "Ali Darassa", "text": "Ali Darassa\n\nAli Darassa Mahamat (born 23 July 1965), also known as Ali Nassaraza Darassa, Ali Daras, and Ali Ndarass is Nigerian leader of the Central African rebel group, the Union for Peace in the Central African Republic (UPC), which is dominant around Bambari. He is an ethnic Fula and his UPC is largely Fula. Darassa was the right-hand man of Chadian rebel leader, Abdel Kader Baba-Laddé until Baba-Laddé abandoned his armed struggle in September 2012. The UPC is an Ex-seleka faction made up of disbanded members of the former rebel coalition known as Seleka. Starting in November 2016, another Ex-seleka faction, the FPRC, allied with their former enemy, the Anti-balaka, and attacked UPC. The fighting displaced 20,000 and was ethnic in nature with the FPRC singling out Fulani people. He is reportedly well studied in past UN peacekeeping missions in order to deal with the peacekeeping mission known as MINUSCA in the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "52646238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52646238", "title": "Alun Herbert Davies", "text": "Alun Herbert Davies\n\nAlun Herbert Davies (1927-2005), known as Alan Creunant in Wales, was a Welsh head teacher, and first director of the Welsh Books Council. His parents were Rev. Thomas Herbert (Creunant) Davies and Hannah Davies (née Thomas). On completing his secondary education in Llandovery he studied at Trinity College, Carmarthen, but did not enter the teaching profession until he had completed two years military service. Following a short period teaching in the Tregaron area, he moved to Llangeitho where, in 1952, he took up the position of school head teacher. \n\nFrom 1965 to 1987 he held the position of Director of the Welsh Books Council. During this time he secured significant funding for the institution from local authorities and the Welsh Arts Council, and developed trading practices, introducing a wholesale operation for booksellers and publishers, and introducing services to help publishers improve standards of book production. He was also able to include in Books Council's remit the distribution of grants to improve and extend the variety of books published.\n\nDavies' other great passion was religion, and he served as a lay preacher with the Presbyterian Church of Wales. He was also Moderator of the South Wales Association of the Presbyterian Church of Wales in 1979-1980.\n\nIn 1987 he received an honorary MA from the University of Wales, and in 2004 was made a Fellow of the University of Wales Aberystwyth.\n\nHe died from cancer at Bronglais Hospital, Aberystwyth, in October 2005.\n"}
{"id": "50548735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50548735", "title": "Andrew Bremer", "text": "Andrew Bremer\n\nAndrew Bremer (born November 22, 1995) is an American Paralympic soccer player. He attended East Grand Rapids High School and Kalamazoo College, playing varsity soccer for both schools. In 2015, Bremer started playing cerebral palsy football as a member of the United States national team. His first call up was in June 2015, and he has consistently participated in national team camps and tournaments since. Bremer was one of a number of players seeking a spot on the national team roster for the 2016 Summer Paralympics in Rio.\n\nBremer also represented the U.S in the 2017 IFCPF World Championships and THE 2018 America’s Cup.\n\nBremer was born on November 22, 1995 in Grand Rapids, Michigan, with hemiplegic cerebral palsy, a condition which effects the right side of his body. He attended East Grand Rapids High School. After graduating in 2013, he enrolled at Kalamazoo College, where he is majoring in economics and business and minoring in mathematics. Bremer made the Dean's List for the Winter 2015 term, and is scheduled to graduate in 2017.\n\nGrowing up, Bremer participated in a number of sports, including hockey, basketball, baseball and swimming. Prior to becoming a member of the US national CP football team, Bremer had flown only once in his life.\nBremer played soccer for East Grand Rapids High School in Michigan for three seasons as a defender or central midfielder. His coach asserted that he never believed Bremer's cerebral palsy impacted his on field performance. During his high school varsity career, he scored 6 goals. One was in 2012 against Caledonia High School, another in 2012 was against Grand Rapids Forest Hills Central. He also scored in the 2011 season against Grand Rapids Northview. The goal against Caledonia took place in a match that ended tied 3 - 3.\n\nAs a college junior, Bremer started university soccer for Kalamazoo College in the 2015-2016 season where he wore number 13. He appeared in three games, where he had two shots on goal playing as a midfielder.He made his first collegiate start against Trine University in the 2016 season. He appeared in 9 games in 2016, registering one assist in a game against Olivet College.\n\nBremer is a CP7 footballer, taking up the sport in 2015 as a 19-year-old after seeing a Tweet about the Paralympic team during the FIFA Women's World Cup. When playing for the national team, he is a forward.\n\nBremer was invited to his first national team training camp in June 2015, flying there for the camp in Los Angeles in October 2015. He was back at camp again in November 2015.\n\nIn January 2016, Bremer continued his involvement with the national team and his path towards Rio by participating in a national team training camp in Florida. He attended another camp in April 2016 in Florida. Bremer was part of the United States national 7-a-side football team that took part in the 2016 Pre Paralympic Tournament in Salou, Spain. He featured in all 5 games, starting in 4 of the matches. The United States finished 6th after beating Argentina in one placement match 4 - 3 and losing to Ireland 4 - 1. The goals scored in the match against Argentina were the first the USA scored in the tournament before putting up one more in their match against Ireland. He scored the United States' first goal of the tournament when he put one in the 9th minute of their placement match against Argentina. He scored a second goal in the 52nd minute, and then picked up a yellow card 2 minutes later. The tournament featured 7 of the 8 teams participating in Rio. It was the last major preparation event ahead of the Rio Games for all teams participating.\n\nIn May 2016, Bremer was on track to be selected for the US national team going to the 2016 Summer Paralympics in Rio.\n\n"}
{"id": "13657720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13657720", "title": "Arnaud II de La Porte", "text": "Arnaud II de La Porte\n\nArnaud II de La Porte (born, Versailles, 14 October 1737; guillotined Paris, 23 August 1792) French statesman, Minister of the Marine, Intendant of the King's Civil List (Minister of the Royal Household).\n\nBorn at Versailles from a family steeped in the traditions of the palace, de La Porte (or de Laporte) was destined early to follow in the family footsteps. His great-granduncle was Michel Richard Delalande, court composer to Louis XIV, his grandfather was First Commissary of the Marine Joseph Pellerin, his father Arnaud I de La Porte was First Commissary as well, and his uncle, Joseph Pellerin Jr. was Intendant of the Naval Armies, all under Louis XV and Louis XVI.¹\n\nHe began working in his father's bureau in 1755 at only eighteen years of age. The next year he joined his uncle at the Marine (as the Navy was known in France). He would continue in these branches of the government occupying at various times Intendancies of Brest and Bordeaux, arriving at the Intendancy of Foreign and Maritime Trade in 1783.\n\nNamed Minister of the Navy during the Baron de Breteuil's ephemeral ministry on 12 July 1789, after the fall of the Bastille two days later he immediately emigrated to Spain. However Louis XVI needed faithful servants more than ever, and when the King called, La Porte was one of the few who dared answer. He was named Intendant of the Civil List (Minister of the Royal Household) in December 1790 which gave him direct control of the large sums of money that were considered the private wealth of the King and so not subject to public audit. He soon became a close confidant of the beleaguered king and Louis XVI entrusted him with great sums of this private money to be distributed toward the moderation of the rapidly radicalising revolutionary fervour. More than 1500 persons; actors, singers, public speakers, etc. were employed to this end, at an expense which exceeded 200,000 livres monthly. In 1791 La Porte founded the \"National\" Club in the Carrousel. Despite his close collaboration with Mirabeau, and especially due to the latter's premature death, La Porte's efforts proved to be in vain.\n\nSeeing how dangerous things were becoming, La Porte, who conferred on a daily basis with the King in his apartments in the Pavillon de l'Infante of the Louvre (which were attached by a long wing to the Tuileries Palace at that time), proposed a plan to his sovereign in an attempt to save his life. He had previously discovered a secret room in his suite, and knowing that the guards would not take notice of his passage since he made the same walk every day, counselled the King to hide in the secret room after their daily conference until such a time as he could be safely spirited out of the whole palace complex. At that time Louis refused, still certain of the love of his people. The Queen's friend, Fersen would be more successful in convincing him of his need to escape a few months later. When the royal family attempted the flight to Varennes, Laporte was left behind, entrusted by the King to read his letter explaining his motives to the Constituent Assembly, something that must have been a thankless, not to say extremely dangerous task.\n\nCaught near the border, the royal family was unceremoniously returned to Paris to face the music. The King's position deteriorated steadily after that. After the storming of the Tuileries on 10 August, La Porte was arrested for having distributed secret funds, and convicted of treason against the Revolution becoming, on 23 August 1792, the second political victim of that new humane device: the guillotine. In a macabre gesture, his severed head was then presented to the King, by then imprisoned in the Temple, as a grisly birthday gift.\n\nHis services and ultimate sacrifice were recalled after the Restoration by the King's younger brother who had been crowned as Louis XVIII, and his son Arnaud III de La Porte was created a baron in recognition of all this in 1822. The title remains in the family to this day.\n\n(translated from the \"Dictionnaire historique ou Histoire abrégée des hommes qui se sont fait un nom par la génie, les talens, les vertus, les erreurs, depuis le commencement du monde jusqu’à nos jours. --François Xavier de Feller, 12 vol in-8º, Paris, 1818.\"):\n\nLaporte (Arnaud de), born in 1737 of a family which over the last century had provided several intendants and chief administrators to the Navy and the Colonial Office, he was destined to follow the same career. The Jesuits, with whom he did his studies at the Collège Louis Le Grand, had hoped to acquire him for their company; but the young Laporte did not heed their hints, though he was always to retain feelings of attachment and veneration for his former masters.\n\nAt an early age (he was barely 23 years old), he was given the task of directing construction in the ports of Calais and Boulogne, of flat-bottomed boats, of a kind which, since they were ultimately to prove useless, have become the objects of ridicule by the English but which had for quite some time been the subject of their livliest anxiety. In the fulfilment of his duties, Laporte exercised those talents and that energy which were ever to focus public attention upon him.\n\nHaving been rapidly promoted through the intermediary ranks, he was soon appointed Controller of the Navy at Brest. This posting’s modest title belies its vast responsibilities; it was in fact a senior posting. He soon made for himself a personal reputation which public opinion, ratified by the full confidence of his superiors, led to his gradual assumption of all the functions of the Intendancy, of which he would one day actually hold the title as well.\n\nWhen his father died in 1770, Laporte went up to Paris to succeed him at the Exchequer, thus becoming the magistrate of a Sovereign Court and as such could no longer remain the mere controller of the port of Brest. In order for the Navy to be able to retain his services he was appointed Ordinator of Bordeaux, a post which gave him direct access to the Minister of the Navy which was a rôle much more in keeping with his newly elevated rank. It was at this time that he began to lay the foundations of that double reputation of a virtuous man as well as an able administrator which was to particularly characterise him.\n\nIt is from this time as well that one can date that universal concert of approbation both from the Navy and the Merchant Marine as well as from shipping magnates in every port who all championed him for the office of Minister of the Navy each time that post became vacant. M. de Sartine was appointed Minister in 1775, and no sooner was he in office than he hastened to nominate Laporte to the king for the Intendancy of Brest, at that time vacant.\n\nSoon after, in 1776, an order came down changing the structure of the administration of the ports, by which several aspects were now to fall under the purview of the military. Although the new Intendant disapproved of some of these changes, having foreseen and reported several inconveniences likely to come of them, he nevertheless set himself to implement them inonfidence he inspired in general, that Laporte was in great part responsible for the rapid expansion of the French Navy during the period of the War of American Independence, this in spite of the innumerable difficulties that the execution of the new order entailed.\n\nThe port of Brest during the course of this war was, as the principal French naval base,the nerve centre of almost all operations. Arnaud de Laporte who was its very soul soon gathered the fruits of his labours in expressions of esteem from the multitudes of travellers who passed through, expressions to which the king’s brother the Count of Artois deigned to join his own. This prince would henceforward honour Laporte with his most particular grace.\n\nM. de Castries, having become Naval Minister in 1780 immediately called Laporte to his side and gave him, under the title of Intendant General of the Navy, the direction of all matters remaining under Administrative Corps. In 1783 he was called to the Royal Council of State as Master of Requests and at the same time appointed Intendant of Maritime Commerce, Intendant of the Navy, and a member of the Naval Council which the Minister had formed around his person.\n\nThen the Revolution began, and in July 1789 the king appointed a new ministry, calling on Arnaud de Laporte to take on the portfolio of the Navy at last. He was at that moment in Paris which was in full insurrection. The courrier on his way from Versailles carrying his nomination as Minister of the Navy was arrested at the barriers set up around the city and taken to the City Hall where the electors had constituted themselves. Luckily there were among them some well-intentioned men who saw to it that the courrier and his despatches was allowed to continue without the contents of his attaché being examined, and it is thanks to them that Laporte was not subjected to the fury of the enraged populace then and there.\n\nLouis XVI, who had been unable to approach him in person at the time, finally got the chance eighteen months later in December 1790 when, come to name his new Intendant of the Civil List decided upon Laporte for the job. The latter was however no longer in France, having emigrated to Vitoria, near Bilbao in Spain which is where he received the king’s letter, and though he had no doubts as to the danger to which he would expose himself, without a moment’s hesitation he hastened to the service of a master who had found him worthy, and who lost no time in coming to appreciate the value of his servant.\n\nOver the next year and a half, Laporte had few occasions to give public proof of his devotion to his king. Circumstances required him to appear to be buried in purely financial matters obeying the king’s wishes, whose confidence and affection in any event gave his heart all the reward he could hope for. Louis XVI soon gave him proof of his feelings when a pamphlet was published at the beginning of 1791 which accused his Intendant of weakness and even incompetence. The king, under no illusion as to the real aim of this slander which was getting a great deal of publicity at the time, was the first to go and speak to Laporte of it. His Intendant immediately offered his resignation if the king did not feel his services had been adequate, to which the Louis responded \" Would you too, wish to leave me then?\" Laporte, deeply moved, threw himself at his master’s knees, and at that moment his fate was irrevocably sealed.\n\nWhether because the king was satisfied with Laporte’s account of his work, or because the ever-mounting danger of being in the king’s service kept even the most ambitious from seeking such a post, in any event Laporte was able to hold onto the king’s confidence. It was this close collaboration with Louis XVI that led a great many people to come into contact with him, some no doubt in hope of acquiring an entrée with the king in the event that royal authority might eventually be restored, others with perhaps purer motives. All took him for their mediator with the king to whom, via Laporte they communicated their expressions of affection and zeal to serve him. After the tenth of August Laporte's first care was to destroy all evidence of this correspondence.That his retiring behaviour was not a sign of timidity in Laporte is shown by the fact that every time it was his duty to appear in public he did so with great courage.\n\nOne reads in the accounts of the day that when he was called upon to appear before the National Assembly to present the declaration the king had prepared before the royal family’s flight to Varennes, he refused to disclose the letter his unfortunate master had written him which he regarded as a sacred trust which he would not violate. He was equally firm when called upon to explain what had become of the \"Memoires\" of Madame de La Motte of which the entire edition had been bought up by the king so it could be suppressed. It had been decided that the books would be burnt in their entirety in the furnaces of the Sèvres porcelain factory. Laporte, assigned to oversee this operation (which he had considered a mistake in the first place), nevertheless undertook the task out of duty and discipline, feeling that such a delicate matter had to be seen to properly.\n\nIt is known that Louis XVI, departing from Paris in 1791 was headed for Montmédy where he would centre his provisional government. A new ministry was envisioned. The Baron de Breteuil was to be Prime Minister and Laporte was to join it as Minister of the Navy. This second appointment was to have no more result than the first, and was even less known since every effort was made after the failure of the king’s flight to play down all details regarding the oppositional government’s plans.\n\nOn the tenth of August, Laporte, fearing that his absence might compromise the king took it to be his duty to remain at his post. He went home that evening and there received a deputation of two jacobin envoys upon which he was obliged to present himself before the National Assembly to deposit the registers of the Civil List for their review. He replied calmly to the interrogation he was then subjected to, and surprisingly his point of view carried the day.\n\nFour more days passed without any attacks upon his person, however during that time he had to suffer the search of his papers by Commissioners of the National Assembly. To their disappointment no incriminating materials were discovered among them. Despite their best efforts not to omit anything that might produce their desired results, even to the point of removing chimney stones and pulling up the floorboards of his apartment, not a single piece of evidence was found that might have incriminated anyone at all.\n\nThe care taken by this good man, who in so much personal danger himself, still took the pains not to compromise all those who had been in correspondence with him shows one of the character traits of Arnaud de Laporte which has sadly largely been ignored by posterity. Too many with too much to lose had good reason to keep him in oblivion, and so it wasn’t until many years later that a few of those who were saved by his actions on that day were able to come forward in their memoires to express their belated gratitude and pay homage to his memory.\n\nThe confidence that he enjoyed and which he so clearly showed to be well merited as in this instance, had made his network of contacts very numerous, and even thre times he regretted having had to meet with them.\n\nBut all that he did remained largely unknown, an inevitable consequence of the circumstances in the midst of which he was acting, which as a man of experience he knew to be of the highest delicacy. Nevertheless, he continued to perform these thankless tasks with all the constancy of a man of real character who had no need of the approbation of others in the fulfilment of his duty. Some others held in the king’s heart and would have been frustrated to appear to be held away from that close coterie that had surrounded Louis XVI which both friends and enemies of the king were vainly striving to force their way into.\n\nBut Arnaud de Laporte, faithful to that wise spirit of discretion which he had made his creed, affected to remain always at a remove from the buzzing throng that whirled around the king’s person. Everyone knew what he was about, and understood his firm principles, and that understanding led them to feel deep gratitude towards him. He had no personal enemies, and as such he probably would not have been singled out to become one of the Revolution’s first victims had not the cold calculations of the leaders of the movement required them to find someone of \"great guilt\" to sacrifice in order to stoke the fires of public fury.\n\nIt is quite clear that Laporte would not have been chosen to open up the abominable series of judicial murders which was to be the prelude to the more wholesale slaughter of 25 September, except that the persons upon whom the revolutionaries’ eyes had first fallen had for the most part already made their escape from the capital or were being reserved for an even crueller fate.\n\nIt was on 15 August 1792, at the very time the Royal Family was being transported to prison at the Temple, that this faithful servant of the crown was taken to the City Hall to be interrogarted by Billaud-Varennes, and from there transported to the Abbey of St. Germain des Près, then in use as a revolutionary prison.\n\nOn the 23rd he appeared before the Revolutionary Tribunal. His calm countenance and the precision and accuracy of his responses to questioning stymied his judges best efforts to justify the guilty verdict they were required to make. \"Why can’t you judge him?\" cried the angry mob which had gathered to wallow in the spectacle of this just man’s calvary. For‚ in the eyes of this ignorant multitude, especially with tempers at fever-pitch, no judgement, no justice was possible except the death sentence.\n\nStill the interrogation dragged on and on, for the rest of the day of the 23rd, through the whole night and for the morning after. And yet, surprisingly, after all that, such a great impression had he made upon his judges by his evident virtue, that they found themselves divided, and could not get the required majority vote for a condemnation, as was later reported by M. Julienne, the lawyer who had the courage to take on the dangerous job of defending Laporte. Nevertheless, they were bound by the powers over them and circumstances to condemn him and this they ultimately managed to bring themselves to do.\n\nWhen Arnaud de Laporte heard his sentence, he had a momentary shudder of emotion, which he made no attempt to conceal without however showing any weakness. His faith, this religion which he’d always respected, so full of hope and consolation in adversity gave him the courage to remain calm without affectation, which made a deep impression upon all who witnessed it, including the judges who had just condemned him.\n\nThe imprint of his peaceful religious feelings has remained in a letter he wrote just after his sentencing which has been kept by his descendants. It is a very model of simple Christianity which resonates with submission to divine will and tenderness for his loved ones. The great impression he made at that moment, at first known only to those sharing the Tribunal with him, soon spread far and wide, this hommage to his dignity under duress, this respect due his courage at this terrible moment was reported unanimously by all the Parisian newspapers on the next day.\n\nOne history of the Revolution which appeared in 1797, called \"Two Friends of Liberty\" closes its account of his death as follows: \"Calm, as was his conscience, he climbed the steps of the guillotine to meet his death with all the assurance of a man who had never used his life but to bring happiness to all who surrounded him\". No-one, in fact, ever took the practice of private virtues farther than Arnaud de Laporte which was the best guarantee possible one could have for his public probity in office. Also, the esteem in which he was held by those who came to know him and even those who knew him only slightly was always accompanied by a genuine sentiment of affection.\n\nHis affability and good nature had won him all hearts back in Brest. During a long and grave illness in 1780 while posted there, the sailors of the port would gather daily at the door of the Intendancy eager for any scrap of news as to how he was faring, and thirty years after his death, when an oldtimer from Brest was asked if he had known Arnaud de Laporte the codger could not bring himself to answer, so overcome was he with tears of emotion.\n\nArnaud de Laporte left only one son, a squadron chief in the artillery of the Royal Guard.\n"}
{"id": "57922648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57922648", "title": "Asquith Xavier", "text": "Asquith Xavier\n\nAsquith Camile Xavier was a West Indian-born Briton who ended a colour bar at British Railways in London by fighting to become the first non-white train guard at Euston railway station in 1966. Trevor Phillips, the chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality, said in 2006: \"Asquith's stand against discrimination brought to light the inadequacy of early race discrimination laws and persistent widespread discrimination faced by ethnic minorities.\" A plaque at the station commemorates his achievement. \n\nXavier was born on 18 July 1920 in Dominica, which was then a British colony. He was a member of the Windrush generation of British African-Caribbean people who migrated to the United Kingdom after the second world war to fill vacancies in service industries. \n\nXavier joined British Railways. In 1966 he was working as a guard at Marylebone station in central London. He applied for a promotion and transfer to work at Euston, but was rejected. A letter from a staff committee at Euston—which was dominated by members of the National Union of Railwaymen—explained it was because of his colour. Unions and management had informally agreed in the 1950s to ban non-white people from jobs at Euston that involved contact with the public; they could be cleaners and labourers, but not guards or ticket collectors.\n\nThe Race Relations Act of 1965 had made discrimination on \"grounds of colour, race, or ethnic or national origins\" unlawful in public places in Great Britain (but not Northern Ireland). Xavier could not use this legislation to further his case as it did not cover workplaces.\n\nXavier persisted. A union official publicised the rejection by writing a letter of protest to the head of the National Union of Railwaymen on his behalf. Two members of parliament wrote to the secretary of state for transport, Barbara Castle, to ask her to direct British Railways to end racial discrimination. \nOn 15 July 1966 British Railways announced that colour bars at stations in London had been abandoned. Xavier was offered the job with his pay backdated to May, which was when he had been originally rejected.\nXavier could not take up the job immediately as he was recovering from hospital treatment for an ulcer. He received hate mail and death threats, and asked for police protection. He started work on 15 August 1966.\n\nXavier died in 1980 in Chatham, Kent.\n\nOona King presented a BBC Radio 4 documentary, \"Asquith's Fight for Equality\", about his story in 2016—the fiftieth anniversary of his victory. The same year, The One Show on BBC One television interviewed Xavier's family and covered the unveiling of the plaque at Euston station that marked his fight.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46453657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46453657", "title": "Athanasios Sekeris", "text": "Athanasios Sekeris\n\nAthanasios Sekeris was a Greek merchant and a prominent member of Filiki Eteria. He was the brother of Panagiotis and Georgios Sekeris.\n\nAthanasios studied in Dimitsana’s School. He then followed his older brother to Istanbul, where he completed his studies and started working as a merchant. In 1816, he settled in Odessa as co-partner of his brother.\n\nIn 1817, Nikolaos Skoufas introduced Anathos and Panagiotis Anagnostopoulos to the Filiki Eteria. The last one was hosted by Athanasios Sekeris in his house in Odessa. During that time, the headquarters’ transfer to Istanbul was decided. Before Skoufas’ departing to Istanbul, he revealed to Athanasios the Supreme Leader and appointed him as co-leader with Odessa as the headquarters and responsible for Bessarabia. When Skoufas departed Odessa, he took Anagnostopoulos and a reference letter for his brother, Panagiotis Sekeris. A few weeks later, he met Panagiotis and introduced him to the Filiki Eteria. This introduction was crucial because, through Panagiotis, the Filiki Eteria jointed Istanbul’s merchants. They gave financial assistance to Athanasios, while their influence and skills facilitated its expansion. \nAthanasios decided to return home when the Greek War of Independence began. He left Odessa in late August 1821. He served as the head of a military unit in Tripolitsa in several battles. In one battle he was wounded in his right hand. After the death of his brother Georgios, he tried to receive appointment to some public post and to be compensated for his family's sacrifices to the Revolution. In 1823, he was appointed plenipotentiary of Tripolitsa province in the Second National Assembly at Astros, and in 1824 he was appointed as prefect of Old Patras. From 1828 to 1831 he was member of the provincial council of elders of Nafplio. From 1835 until 1843, he was president of a court of first instance. In 1844, Sekeriswas dismissed from his post as magistrate and he became superintendent and warehouse worker at Public Revenue of Argos’ municipality. The year of Athanasios' death is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "187221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187221", "title": "Austrians", "text": "Austrians\n\nAustrians () are a Germanic nation and ethnic group, native to modern Austria and South Tyrol that share a common Austrian culture, Austrian descent and Austrian history. The English term \"Austrians\" was applied to the population of Habsburg Austria from the 17th or 18th century. Subsequently, during the 19th century, it referred to the citizens of the Empire of Austria (1804–1867), and from 1867 until 1918 to the citizens of Cisleithania. In the closest sense, the term \"Austria\" originally referred to the historical March of Austria, corresponding roughly to the Vienna Basin in what is today Lower Austria.\n\nHistorically, Austrians were regarded as ethnic Germans and viewed themselves as such. Austria was part of the Holy Roman Empire and the German Confederation until the Austro-Prussian war in 1866 which resulted in Prussia expelling Austria from the Confederation. Thus, when Germany was founded as a nation-state in 1871, Austria was not a part of it. In 1867, Austria was reformed into the Austro-Hungarian Empire. After the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in 1918 at the end of World War I, Austria was reduced to a rump state and adopted and briefly used the name the Republic of German-Austria (\"Republik Deutschösterreich\") in an attempt for union with the Republic of Germany, but was forbidden due to the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye (1919). The First Austrian Republic was founded in 1919. The Third Reich annexed Austria with the \"Anschluss\" in 1938. \n\nSince the fall of the Third Reich and the events of World War II, both the political ideology of pan-Germanism and the union with Germany have become discredited due to their association with Nazism, allowing Austrians to develop their own separate and distinct national identity. Today, the vast majority of Austrians do not identify as \"German\".\n\nAustrians may be described either as a nationality or as a homogeneous Germanic ethnic group, that is closely related to neighboring Germans, Liechtensteiners and German-speaking Swiss.\n\nThe English word \"Austrian\" is a derivative of the proper name Austria, which is a latinization of \"Österreich\", the German name for Austria. This word is derived from \"Ostarrîchi\", which first appears in 996. This, in turn, is probably a translation of the Latin \"Marcha Orientalis\", which means \"eastern borderland\" (viz. delimiting the eastern border of the Holy Roman Empire). It was a margraviate of the Duchy of Bavaria, ruled by the House of Babenberg from AD 976.\nDuring the 12th century, the \"Marcha Orientalis\" under the Babenbergs became independent of Bavaria. What is today known as Lower Austria corresponds to the \"Marcha Orientalis\", while Upper Austria corresponds to the eastern half of the core territory of Bavaria (the western half forming part of the German state of Bavaria).\n\nThe adjective \"Austrian\" entered the English language in the early 17th century, at the time referring to Habsburg Austria the sense of \"members of the Austrian branch of the House of Habsburg\" (the junior branch emerging from the dynastic split into Austrian and Spanish Habsburgs in 1521), but from the 18th century also \"a native or inhabitant of Austria\".\n\nThe territory of what is today Austria in the Roman era was divided into Raetia, Noricum and Pannonia.\nNoricum was a Celtic kingdom, while the \"Pannonii\" were of Illyrian stock. The Raetians were an ancient alpine people probably akin to the Etruscans. During the Migration period (c. 6th century), these territories were settled by the Bavarians and other Germanic groups in the west (Alemanni in Vorarlberg, Lombards in Tyrol), and by Slavic groups, Huns and Avars in the east. In the 8th century, the former territories of Raetia and Noricum fell under Carolingian rule, and were divided into the duchies of Swabia, Bavaria and Carinthia. Pannonia until the end of the 8th century was part of the Avar Khaganate. The \"East March\" (\"Ostmark\") during the 9th century was the boundary region separating East Francia from the Avars and the Magyars. The site of Vienna had been settled since Celtic times (as \"Vindobona\"), but the city only rose to importance in the High Middle Ages as the chief settlement of the March of Austria (the March river just east of Vienna marks the ancient border between Francia and the Avars).\n\nAfter the defeat of the Magyars at the Battle of Lechfeld in 955, the East March or March of Austria came to be the easternmost portion of the Holy Roman Empire, bordering on Moravia to the north and on the Kingdom of Hungary to the east.\nAs a consequence, the national character of the Austro-Bavarian speaking majority population of Austria throughout their early modern and modern history remained characterized by their neighbourhood to the West Slavs (Czechs, Slovaks) to the north, the South Slavs (Slovenians, Carinthian Slovenes, Burgenland Croats) to the south, and the Hungarians to the east.\n\nThe unification of the various territories of Austria outside of the March of Austria proper\n(i.e. parts of Bavaria, Swabia and Carinthia) was a gradual process of feudal politics during the High and Late Middle Ages, at first in the Archduchy of Austria under the House of Babenberg during the 12th to 13th centuries, and under the House of Habsburg after 1278 and throughout the 14th and 15th centuries. The various populations of these territories were not unified under the single name of \"Austrians\" before the early modern period.\n\nThe Habsburg, who had ruled the territory of Austria since the Late Middle Ages, greatly increased their political prestige and power with the acquisition of the lands of the crowns of Hungary and Bohemia in 1526. The Hungarian aristocracy was more successful at retaining the Magyars' cultural and political preponderance in multi-ethnic Hungary than Bohemia, on three sides surrounded by German neighbours, which underwent a period of intense German colonisation, germanizing the leading classes of the Czech people as well. The common German identity of lands such as Carinthia, Styria, or Tyrol, and the ruling dynasty made it easier for these lands to accept the central government set up in Vienna in the mid-18th century.\n\nThe term Austrian in these times was used for identifying subjects of the Domus Austriae, the House of Austria, as the dynasty was called in Europe, regardless of their ethnic ancestry. Although not formally a united state, the lands ruled by the Habsburgs would sometimes be known by the name \"Austria\". In reality they remained a disparate range of semi-autonomous states, most of which were part of the complex network of states that was the Holy Roman Empire (the imperial institutions of which were themselves controlled for much of their later existence by the Habsburgs). However, the second half of the 18th century saw an increasingly centralised state begin to develop under the reign of Maria Theresa of Austria and her son Joseph II.\n\nAfter the French Revolution and the rise of Napoleon, the emperor Franz II formally founded the Austrian Empire in 1804 and became as \"Franz I\" the first Austrian emperor. For the first time the citizens of the various territories were now subjects of the one same state, while most of the German states, Prussia excluded, still cultivated their Kleinstaaterei and didn't succeed in forming a homogenous empire. Following Prussia's victory in the Austro-Prussian war in 1866, Otto von Bismarck successfully unified the German Empire in 1871, which was Prussian-dominated, without the inclusion of Austria and the German Austrians. \n\nAfter Austria was excluded from Germany in 1866, the following year Austria joined Hungary as a dual empire known as the Austro-Hungarian Empire. A further major change resulted from a reorganisation of the Austrian Empire in 1867 into a dual monarchy, acknowledging the Kingdom of Hungary as an independent state bound to the remaining part of the empire, as well independent, by a personal and real union, the Emperor of Austria being the Apostolic King of Hungary (with both titles on the same level). The Austrian half, a patchwork of crown-lands, broadly coterminous with the modern-day Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, and parts of Poland, Ukraine, Italy, and Croatia, was bound together by the common constitution of 1867, stating that all subjects now would carry \"uniform Austrian citizenship\" and have the same fundamental rights. These non-Hungarian lands were not officially called the Austrian Empire. Until 1915, they were officially called \"the Kingdoms and States Represented in the Imperial Council\" and politicians used the technical term Cisleithania (labelling the Hungarian lands as Transleithania). The general public called them Austria, and in 1915, the non-parliamentary Cisleithanian government decreed to use this term officially, too.\n\nThe idea of grouping all Germans into one nation-state gave way to a rapid rise of German nationalism within the German Confederation, especially in the two most powerful German states, Austria and Prussia. The question of how a unified Germany was to be formed was a matter of debate. The German Question was to be solved by either unifying all German-speaking peoples under one state as the \"Greater German solution\" (\"Großdeutsche Lösung\"), which was promoted by the Austrian Empire and its supporters. On the other hand, the \"Lesser German solution\" (\"Kleindeutsche Lösung\") advocated only to unify the northern German states and exclude Austria; this proposal was favored by the Kingdom of Prussia and its supporters. This debate became known as German dualism.\n\nThe lands later called Cisleithania (except Galicia and Dalmatia) were members of the German Confederation since 1815 as they had been part of the Holy Roman Empire until 1806. Until 1848, Austria and its chancellor Prince Metternich unanimously dominated the confederation. The developing sense of a German nationality had been accelerated massively as a consequence of the political turmoil and wars that engulfed Central Europe following the French Revolution and the rise to power of Napoleon Bonaparte. Although the years of peace after Napoleon's fall quickly saw German nationalism largely pushed out of the public political arena by reactionary absolutism, the Revolutions of 1848 established it as a significant political issue for a period of nearly hundred years.\n\nPolitical debate now centred on the nature of a possible future German state to replace the Confederation, and part of that debate concerned the issue of whether or not the Austrian lands had a place in the German polity. When Emperor Franz Joseph I ordered to build a monument in Vienna in 1860 to Archduke Charles, victor over Napoleon in the Battle of Aspern-Essling in 1809, it carried the dedication \"To the persistent fighter for Germany's honour\", to underline the Germanic mission of the House of Austria. \n\nThe idea of uniting all ethnic Germans into one nation-state began to be challenged in Austria by the rise of Austrian nationalism, especially within the Christian Social Party that identified Austrians on the basis of their predominantly Catholic religious identity as opposed to the predominantly Protestant religious identity of the Prussians.\n\nHabsburg influence over the German Confederation, which was strongest in the southern member states, was rivalled by the increasingly powerful Prussian state. Political manoeuvering by the Prussian chancellor Otto von Bismarck resulted in military defeat of the Austrians in the Austro-Prussian War of 1866 and the collapse of the Confederation, both effectively ending any future Austrian influence on German\npolitical events.\n\nWhen asked by Edward VII to abandon Austria-Hungary's alliance with Germany for co-operation with England, Franz Joseph replied \"I am a German prince.\"\n\nThe Franco-Prussian War and the establishment of a German Empire in 1871, headed by Prussia and pointedly excluding any of the Austrian lands, let the state turn away from Germany and turn its gaze towards the Balkan Peninsula. Thereby the influence of pan-Germanism was diminished in the Habsburg territories, but as the term \"Austrians\" still was used supra-national, German-speaking Austrians considered themselves Germans (and were counted as such in the censuses). After Bismarck had excluded Austria from Germany, many Austrians faced a dilemma about their identity which prompted the Social Democratic Leader Otto Bauer to state that the dilemma was \"the conflict between our Austrian and German character.\" The state as a whole tried to work out a sense of a distinctively Austrian identity.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian Empire created ethnic conflict between the German Austrians and the other ethnic groups of the empire. Many pan-German movements in the empire desired the reinforcement of an ethnic German identity and that the empire would collapse and allow for a quick annexation of Austria to Germany. Although it was precisely because of Bismarck's policies that Austria and the German Austrians were excluded from Germany, many Austrian pan-Germans idolized him.\n\nWhile the high bureaucracy of Austria and many Austrian army officers considered themselves \"black-yellow\" (the Habsburg colours), i.e. loyal to the dynasty, the term \"German Austria\" (Deutschösterreich) was a term used in the press to mean all the Austrian districts with an ethnic German majority among the inhabitants. Austrian pan-Germans such as Georg Ritter von Schönerer and his followers agitated against the \"multi-national\" Austro-Hungarian Empire and advocated for German Austria to join the German Empire. Although many Austrians shared the same views, a lot of them still showed allegiance to the Habsburg Monarchy and hoped for Austria to remain an independent country. Although not as radical as Schönerer and his followers, populists such as Karl Lueger used anti-semitism and pan-Germanism as a form of populism to further their own political purposes.\n\nThe last year of World War I saw the collapse of Habsburg authority throughout an increasingly greater part of its empire. On October 16, 1918, emperor Karl I invited the nations of Austria to create national councils, with the aim to instigate a restructuring of the state under Habsburg rule. The nations followed the invitation (the Czechs had founded their national council already before the invitation) but ignored the will of the emperor to keep them in a restructured Austrian state. Their goal was total independence. \n\nOn October 21, the German members of the Austrian parliament, elected in 1911, met in Vienna to found the Provisional National Assembly of German Austria (\"Provisorische Nationalversammlung für Deutschösterreich\"). On October 30, 1918 they installed the first German Austrian government, leaving the question \"monarchy or republic\" open. (German nationalists and social democrats favoured the republic, the Christian Socialists wanted to keep the monarchy.) This government in the first days of November took over the duties of the last imperial-royal government in a peaceful way. Initially the new state adopted the name \"German Austria\", reflecting the republic being the German part of the old Austria and showing the popular desire to unite with the new German republic. On November 12, 1918, the provisional national assembly voted for the republic and for unification with Germany with a large majority. \n\nThe creation of the Czecho-Slovak and South Slav states, the dissolution of the real union with Hungary, and the post-war treaties imposed by the victorious Allies combined to see the newly established Austrian republic both with the boundaries it has today, and a largely homogeneous German-speaking population. In the Treaty of Saint-Germain, in September 1919 the union with Germany was prohibited, and the new republic's name \"Deutschösterreich\" was prohibited by the treaty; instead the term \"Republic of Austria\" was used. The westernmost province Vorarlberg's wish to unite with Switzerland was also ignored. On October 21, 1919, the state changed its name accordingly. Many German Austrian communities were left scattered throughout the other new states, especially in Czechoslovakia, where more than 3 million German Bohemians had not been allowed to become part of the new Austrian state, as well as in the southern part of Tyrol which now found itself part of Italy. In total, more than 3.5 million German-speaking Austrians were forced to remain outside the Austrian state.\n\nThe collapse of the empire caused an apparent struggle for some German Austrians between an \"Austrian\" and a \"German\" character. The idea of unifying Austria with Germany was motivated both by a sense of a common German national identity, and also by a fear that the new state, stripped of its one-time imperial possessions, and surrounded by potentially hostile nation-states, would not be economically viable. An Austrian identity emerged to some degree during the First Republic, and although Austria was still considered part of the \"German nation\" by most, Austrian patriotism was encouraged by the anti-Nazi/anti-Socialist clerico-authoritarianist state ideology known as Austrofascism from 1934-38. The Engelbert Dollfuss/Kurt von Schuschnigg government accepted that Austria was a \"German state\" and believed Austrians were \"better Germans\", but strongly opposed the annexing of Austria to the Third Reich.\n\nBy March 1938, with Nazi governments in control of both Berlin and Vienna, the country was annexed to Germany (\"Anschluss\") as \"Ostmark\". In 1942 the name was changed to the \"Alpen-und Donau-Reichsgaue\" (\"Alpine and Danubian Gaue\"), thus eradicating any links with a special Austrian past. Some of the most prominent Nazis were native Austrians, including Adolf Hitler, Ernst Kaltenbrunner, Arthur Seyss-Inquart, Franz Stangl, Otto Skorzeny, and Odilo Globocnik, as were 40% of the staff at Nazi extermination camps.\nDuring the war, Austrians' infatuation with Germany faded as Austrian-born Hitler's series of victories ended. When social democrat Adolf Schärf, from 1945 party president and vice-chancellor and from 1957 federal president of Austria, was visited by German friends who wanted to talk about post-war government, he spontaneously explained to his surprised visitors, \"love for Germany has been put out in Austrians\". When the allies declared that they would reestablish an independent Austrian state after their victory (the Moscow Declaration of 1943) the only Austrians who heard them were those secretly listening to enemy broadcasts (\"Feindsender\"), which was a criminal offence and heavily prosecuted.\n\nThough the Allied forces treated Austria as a belligerent party in the war and maintained occupation of it after the Nazi capitulation, they accepted the Declaration of Independence which Austrian politicians had signed at Vienna's city hall on April 27, 1945, and they made the first national elections possible in the autumn of that year. By the end of 1945, Austria, under the supervision of the Allied Council in Vienna, had a democratic parliament and government again, acknowledged by all four allied occupation zones.\n\nThe Austrian resistance to the Nazi rule started with the Anschluss in 1938. Historians estimate that there were about 100,000 members of resistance facing 700,000 NSDAP members in Austria. The sign of the Austrian resistance was O5, where the 5 stands for E and OE is the abbreviation of Österreich with Ö as OE.\n\nThe end of World War II in 1945 saw the re-establishment of an independent Austria, although the Allied Powers remained in occupation until 1955, when the Austrian State Treaty between Austria and them was signed to end occupation and to regain Austrian sovereignty.\nImmediately after 1945 the majority of Austrians still saw themselves as Germans, as a broader Austrian national identity took time to develop. In a 1956 survey, 46% of Austrians still considered themselves to be Germans. Another survey carried out in 1964 revealed that only 15% of Austrians still considered themselves to be Germans.\n\nIn contrast, the Austrian political elite referred to their experiences in concentration camps and in prison, which had brought out a desire for the lost independence of the Austrian state. Kreissler (1993) writes: “It was not until after the (long dark) night of the Third Reich that Austrian identity was brought back to consciousness by resistance and exile”.\nAustrians developed a self-image unambiguously separate from their German neighbour. It was based on cultural achievements of the past, the Moscow Declaration, geopolitical neutrality, language variation, the Habsburg legacy, and the separation of the two empires in the late 19th century. The German Empire was formed without Austria and the Austro-Hungarian Empire in the arrangement known as the Kleindeutsche Lösung or \"the Little Germany Solution\". It proved favourable for Austrians not to be held guilty for World War II, genocide and war crimes, since Austria was considered a \"victim\" of Nazi Germany, although some historians call this a \"big lie\" and have challenged this statement.\n\nUnlike earlier in the 20th century, in 1987 only 6% of Austrians identified themselves as \"Germans\". Today over 90% of the Austrians see themselves as an independent nation.\nThe logic of the existence of an independent Austrian state is no longer questioned as it was in the inter-war period. Proponents who recognize Austrians as a nation claim that Austrians have Celtic heritage, as Austria is the location of the first characteristically Celtic culture to exist. It is said that Celtic Austria became culturally Romanized under Roman rule and later culturally Germanized after Germanic invasions. Contemporary Austrians express pride in having Celtic heritage and Austria possesses one of the largest collections of Celtic artifacts in Europe.\n\nAustria's multicultural history and geographical location has resulted in post-Soviet era immigration from Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Romania, and Poland. As with neighbouring Germany, there has also been heavy immigration from Turkey and former Yugoslav states such as Croatia and Serbia. \n\nAustrians have historically spoken the German language. The sole official language at the federal level of Austria is German, and the standard used is called Austrian German since German is considered a pluricentric language, like English. Austrian German is defined by the Austrian Dictionary (), published under the authority of the Austrian Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture. Thus, all websites, official announcements and most of the media are carried out in Austrian German. The minority languages Slovene, Croatian and Hungarian are spoken and officially recognized.\n\nIn terms of native language, it is generally not Austrian German that is used, but instead local dialects of the Austro-Bavarian and Allemannic (in Vorarlberg and the Tiroler Außerfern) family. The Austro-Bavarian dialects are considered to belong either to the Central Austro-Bavarian or Southern Austro-Bavarian subgroups, with the latter encompassing the languages of the Tyrol, Carinthia, and Styria and the former including the dialects of Vienna, Burgenland, Upper Austria, and Lower Austria. The vast majority of Austrians are however able to speak Austrian Standard German in addition to their native dialect, as it is taught in all modern day schools.\n\nLike most of Central Europe, Austria has had high levels of immigration since the 1970s. As with Germany, the largest immigrant group are Turks. An estimated total of 350,000 ethnic Turks lived in Austria in 2010, accounting for 3% of the Austrian population.\n\nThe rate of naturalization has increased after 1995, since which dates Turks in Austria could retain their citizenship in Turkey after naturalization in Austria (dual citizenship). After 2007, the rate of naturalizations has decreased due to a stricter nationality law enacted by the Austrian legislature.\nDuring the 2000s, an average number of 27,127 foreign nationals per year was naturalized as Austrian citizens, compared to an average 67,688 children per year born with Austrian nationality.\n\nToday, the largest group of foreign nationals are Germans. As of January 2018 - 186,891 Germans lived in Austria.\n\nConsequently, an increasing portion of Austrians is not descended from the historical populations of Austria.\nWhile the term \"ethnic Austrian\" has mostly been reserved for the context of overseas emigration from Austria (Austrian Americans, Austrian Canadians etc.), it can more recently also be used to distinguish the indigenous population from the naturalized immigrant population. Thus, the rapid growth of Islam in Austria is due to the higher birth rate among immigrants compared to that among the indigenous \"ethnic Austrian\" population.\n\nAustrian culture has largely been influenced by its neighbours Switzerland, Germany, Italy, Hungary, the Balkans and Czech lands.\n\nVienna, the capital city of Austria has long been an important center of musical innovation. Composers of the 18th and 19th centuries were drawn to the city by the patronage of the Habsburgs, and made Vienna the European capital of classical music. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Franz Schubert and Johann Strauss, Jr., among others, were associated with the city. During the Baroque period, Slavic and Hungarian folk forms influenced Austrian music.\n\nComplementing its status as a land of artists, Austria has always been a country of great poets, writers, and novelists. It was the home of novelists Arthur Schnitzler, Stefan Zweig, Thomas Bernhard, and Robert Musil, and of poets Georg Trakl, Franz Werfel, Franz Grillparzer, Rainer Maria Rilke, and Adalbert Stifter. Famous contemporary Austrian playwrights and novelists include Elfriede Jelinek and Peter Handke. Writers of philosophy include Ernst Mach, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Karl Popper and the members of the Vienna circle.\n\nAustrian cuisine, which is often incorrectly equated with Viennese cuisine, is derived from the cuisine of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. In addition to native regional traditions it has been influenced above all by German, Hungarian, Czech, Jewish, Italian and Polish cuisines, from which both dishes and methods of food preparation have often been borrowed. Goulash is one example of this. Austrian cuisine is known primarily in the rest of the world for its pastries and sweets.\n\nThe majority of Austrians are traditionally Roman Catholic.\nRoman Catholicism in Austria has played a significant role both in the culture and in the politics of Austria. It enabled the House of Habsburg to rule Spain and its empire as a Catholic Monarchy from the 16th century, and it determined the role of Habsburg Austria in the Thirty Years' War. The music in the tradition of Viennese classicism is sacral to a significant extent, including works such as Mozart's Great Mass in C minor, masses by Joseph Haydn (1750-1802), Beethoven's Mass in C major (1807), down to Bruckner's Te Deum (1903).\n\nSecularism has been on the rise since the 1980s. An estimated 66% of Austrians adhered to Roman Catholicism in 2009, compared to 78% in 1991 and 89% in 1961.\nThere is a traditional Lutheran minority, accounting for 4% of the population in 2009 (down from 6% in 1961). An estimated 17% are nonreligious (as of 2005).\n\nIslam in Austria has grown rapidly during the 1990s and 2000s, rising from 0.8% in 1971 to an estimated 6% in 2010, overtaking the traditional size of the Lutheran community in Austria. This rapid growth was due to the significant immigration to Austria from Turkey and Former Yugoslavia during the 1990s to 2000s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2898959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2898959", "title": "Baltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros", "text": "Baltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros\n\nBaltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros y de la Torre (1756–1829) was a Spanish naval officer born in Cartagena. He took part in the Battle of Cape St Vincent and the Battle of Trafalgar, and in the Spanish resistance against Napoleon's invasion in 1808. He was later appointed Viceroy of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, replacing Santiago de Liniers. He disestablished the government Junta of Javier de Elío and quelled the Chuquisaca Revolution and the La Paz revolution. An open cabildo deposed him as viceroy during the May Revolution, but he attempted to be the president of the new government junta, thus retaining power. The popular unrest in Buenos Aires did not allow that, so he resigned. He was banished back to Spain shortly after that, and died in 1829.\n\nBaltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros was born on January 6, 1756, which is the religious feast of Epiphany day, Hence he was named Baltasar after one of the Biblical Magi. Son of Francisco Hidalgo de Cisneros y Seijas, lieutenant of the Spanish Royal Navy, and Manuela de la Torre y Galindo de Espinosa. He commenced his naval career in 1770 and went to the coasts of Africa and Peru and took part in the military campaign at Algiers. He was involved in the capture of an enemy ship in the English Channel, and was promoted to ship's lieutenant. In 1795 he was promoted to commander of the \"San Pablo\", part of the Spanish fleet under José de Córdoba y Ramos. Spain at that time was engaged in the Anglo-Spanish War. The fleet engaged a smaller British fleet, but was defeated in the Battle of Cape St Vincent.\n\nIn 1803 he was in charge of the arsenal of Cartegena, his city of birth. In 1805 he was the captain of the largest Spanish ship \"Nuestra Señora de la Santísima Trinidad\" during the battle of Trafalgar, a major British victory over the combined Spanish and French fleets. The ship, whilst engaged in battle, lost a mast which fell over Hidalgo de Cisneros' head. This caused concussion, which left him partially deaf for the rest of his life. After the incident, Hidalgo de Cisneros was nicknamed \"El sordo\" (). His ship, regarded as one of the most powerful of its time, was captured by HMS Neptune but sank the following day. Cisneros was taken prisoner and received medical care. Whilst under capture he was awarded battle honours and on returning to Spain he was promoted to Lieutenant General.\n\nAfter recovering from his wounds, Hidalgo de Cisneros received further promotion and served as vice-president of the governing council (\"Junta\") of Cartagena. The superior Junta of Seville later resolved to end the insurrection in the Río de la Plata, sending Cisneros to replace the viceroy Santiago de Liniers. The Junta regarded Liniers as a rebel with Bonapartist sympathies known in Spanish as an afrancesado. The mutiny of Álzaga, a failed coup by conservative peninsulars against Liniers who was supported by the emerging local bourgeois, was regarded as rebellion by Liniers, influenced by French ideas but who was not a Napoleonic agent. The Junta gave Hidalgo de Cisneros orders to land in Montevideo, raise armies against Liniers, prosecute him with court-martial and return him under guard to Spain and to dissolve the local criollo militia. Cisneros also had orders to seek and punish likely Napoleonic sympathisers. The Junta created a political office to conduct direct foreign relations with colonial Brazil, to reign in the autonomy being exercised by the viceroy which was seen as potentially insubordinate and secessionist.\n\nHe arrived in Montevideo in June 1809. Manuel Belgrano proposed Liniers to resist his removal and to reject the appointment of Cisneros, on the grounds that Liniers had been confirmed as Viceroy by the authority of a Spanish king, while Cisneros would lack such legitimacy. Nevertheless, Liniers accepted to give up his government to Cisneros without resistance. Noticing that Liniers was not the rebel governor that the Junta thought, he authorized him to stay in the Viceroyalty. Javier de Elío accepted as well the authority of the new Viceroy and dissolved the Junta of Montevideo, becoming once again the Governor of the city.\n\nCisneros tried to take a conciliating policy with the many conflicting political groups. He kept the criollo militias, and granted their commanders to achieve veteran status, which so far was only allowed to peninsular military. He rearmed back the Spanish militias that were disbanded after the coup against Liniers. He also pardoned the responsibles; Álzaga was not freed, but his sentence was changed to house arrest. However, the attempts to please the criollos found resistance from the Junta, which did not approve the request to promote Cornelio Saavedra to colonel rank.\n\nHe tried to stay in good relations with the British and the landowners by removing the laws that forbid free trade, but retailers forced Cisneros to restore such laws. Mariano Moreno, a criollo lawyer, wrote a document to request Cisneros the reopening of free trade, entitled \"The Representation of the Landowners\". It is considered the most comprehensive economic report of the time. Cisneros finally decided to grant an extension of free trade, which would end on May 19, 1810.\nOn May 25, 1809, a revolution in Chuquisaca deposed the governor and president of the Royal Audiencia of Charcas, Ramón García de León y Pizarro, and accused him of supporting a Portuguese protectorate under the authority of Charlotte Joaquina. Military command fell to Colonel Juan Antonio Alvarez de Arenales who, due to uncertainty as to who should be in charge of the civilian affairs, also exercised some civil powers. On July 16, in the city of La Paz, a second revolutionary movement led by Colonel Pedro Domingo Murillo forced the governor to resign and replaced him with a Junta, the \"Junta Tuitiva de los Derechos del Pueblo\" (\"Junta, keeper of the rights of the people\"), headed by Murillo.\n\nA quick reaction from the Spanish officials soon defeated these rebellions. An army with 1,000 men sent from Buenos Aires found no resistance at Chuquisaca, took control of the city, and deposed the Junta. Similarly, Murillo's 800 men were completely outnumbered by the more than 5,000 men sent from Lima. He was later beheaded along with other leaders and their heads exhibited to the people as deterrent. The measures taken against those revolutions reinforced the feeling of inequity among Criollos, more so because they greatly contrasted against the pardon that Martín de Álzaga and others received after serving just a few time in jail. This further deepened the resentment of the locals against the peninsular Spaniards. Among others, Juan José Castelli was present at the proceedings of the University of Saint Francis Xavier where the \"Syllogism of Chuquisaca\" was developed. This would greatly influence his position during the \"May week\".\n\nOn November 25, 1809 Cisneros created the Political Surveillance Court with the aim of pursuing the supporters of \"French ideologies\", and those who encouraged the creation of political regimes that opposed the dependence on Spain. However, he rejected a proposal of the economist José María Romero to banish a number of people which were considered dangerous to the Spanish regime: Saavedra, Paso, Chiclana, Vieytes, Balcarce, Castelli, Larrea, Guido, Viamonte, Moreno, Sáenz and Belgrano, among many others. All these measures, and a proclamation issued by the Viceroy to prevent the spreading of news that might be considered subversive, made the Criollos think that a formal pretext would be enough to take actions that would lead to the outbreak of a revolution. In April 1810, Cornelio Saavedra expressed his famous quote to his friends: \"It's not time yet, let the figs ripen and then we'll eat them\".\n\nThe news of the fall of the Junta of Seville reached Buenos Aires in May 1810. With both the king of Spain and the Junta removed of power, many people thought that Cisneros had no legitimacy to govern, starting the May Revolution. Cisneros tried to calm down the population, to no avail. He called the commanders of the local armies and requested their support, but they denied it. Cisneros was ultimately forced to allow an open cabildo, which would discuss what to do. Although those meetings were usually composed of the wealthiest population, the army and a group of rioters plotted to prevent the entry of many wealthy people and allow common people instead.\n\nThe open cabildo decided to end the mandate of viceroy Cisneros, and establish a government Junta instead. However, the Cabildo tweaked the will of the open cabildo, and appointed Cisneros as president of the Junta; he would remain in power, albeit under a new title. The Junta made the oath of office, but popular unrest became uncontrollable. By the end of the same day the Junta was appointed, the members resigned, and Cisneros did so as well. Initially, the Cabildo rejected his resignation, but the popular unrest was so high that the Cabildo itself was partially overrun by the rioters. Cisneros' resignation was finally accepted, and the Primera Junta was appointed instead, with members proposed by the people. Once deposed, Cisneros dispatched a messenger to Córdoba, to inform the former viceroy of the events, and bestowing on him the authority to gather an army and deposethe Junta.\n\nAfter being deposed, Cisneros formally became a common citizen in Buenos Aires, under the protection of the Junta. A few days later, he assisted to a mass in honour of the king Ferdinand VII. However, the Junta distrusted him, so he was banished to the Canary Islands, along with the members of the Royal Audiencia of Buenos Aires, under the pretext that his life was in danger. His wife Inés de Gaztambide stayed in Buenos Aires as his representative, but she left the city afterwards and moved to Montevideo. Montevideo, a city that rejected the Junta of Buenos Aires, welcomed her like a queen. The Liniers counter-revolution was completely defeated by the forces from Buenos Aires, and Liniers captured and executed.\n\nOnce in Spain, Cisneros moved to Cádiz, to submit himself to the trial of residence. The government had no complaints about his rule, and promoted him to general captain of Cádiz. He was jailed during an uprising in Spain, and liberated after the return of Ferdinand VII. He was then appointed general captain of his home city of Cartagena in 1823, and died in 1829.\n\n\n\"In Spanish unless otherwise noted.\"\n"}
{"id": "23738509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23738509", "title": "Belie Belcan", "text": "Belie Belcan\n\nBelie Belcan is a very popular loa within 21 Divisiones (Dominican Vudú).\n\nHe is considered the patron saint of justice who defends people against evil and enemies within the 21 Divisions. He is considered very polite, understanding, and protective by his devotees. In Roman Catholicism, he is syncretized with . He is said to work very well with Anaisa Pye, a female loa syncretized with Saint Anne. Therefore, in Dominican households, one will often find images of Saint Michael next to images of Saint Anne.\n\n"}
{"id": "2450993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2450993", "title": "Catalans", "text": "Catalans\n\nThe Catalans (Catalan, French and Occitan: \"catalans\"; , Italian: \"catalani\") are the citizens of Catalonia, an autonomous community in Spain and the inhabitants of the Roussillon historical region in southeast France, today the Pyrénées Orientales departments, also called Catalonia Nord and \"Pays Catalan\" in French.\n\nSome authors also extend the word \"Catalans\" to encompass the inhabitants of all the regions where Catalan language is spoken, namely those from Andorra, Valencia, the Balearic islands, eastern Aragon, Roussillon, and the city of Alghero in Sardinia. Catalan nationalists call these territories the \"Països Catalans\" or \"Catalan Countries\".\n\nIn 1500 BCE the area that is now known primarily as Catalonia was, along with the rest of the Iberian Peninsula, inhabited by Proto-Celtic Urnfield people who brought with them the rite of burning the dead. These Indo-European people were absorbed by the Iberians beginning in 600 BCE in a process that would not be complete until the fourth century BCE. These groups came under the rule of various invading groups starting with the Phoenicians and Carthaginians, who set up colonies along the coast, including Barcino (present-day Barcelona) itself. Following the Punic Wars, the Romans replaced the Carthaginians as the dominant power in the Iberian eastern coast, including parts of Catalonia, by 206 BCE. Rome established Latin as the official language and imparted a distinctly Roman culture upon the local population, which merged with Roman colonists from the Italian peninsula. An early precursor to the Catalan language began to develop from a local form of popular Latin before and during the collapse of the Roman Empire. Various Germanic tribes arrived following nearly six centuries of Roman rule, which had completely transformed the area into the Roman province of Tarraconensis. The Visigoths established themselves in the fifth century, making their first capital in the Iberian peninsula Barcelona, and they later would move to Toledo. This continued until 718 when Muslim Arabs conquered the region in order to pass through the Pyrenees into French territory. With the help of the Frankish, a land border was created commonly known nowadays as Old Catalonia (which would consist of the counties County of Barcelona, Ausona, County of Pallars, County of Rosselló, County of Empúries, County of Cerdanya and County of Urgell) which faced Muslim raids but resisted any kind of settlement from them. \"New Catalonia\" and its native peoples were fully in control of the Arab invaders for around a century. The Franks on the other side of the Pyrenees held back the main Muslim raiding army which had penetrated virtually unchallenged as far as central France at the Battle of Tours in 732. Frankish suzerainty was then extended over much of present-day Catalonia. Larger wars with the Muslims began in the March of Barcelona which led to the beginnings of the Reconquista by Catalan forces over most of Catalonia by the year 801. Barcelona would then become an important center for Christian forces in the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nCatalonia emerged from the conflicts in Muslim Spain as a regional power, as Christian rulers entrenched themselves in the region during the Carolingian period. Rulers such as Wilfred the Hairy became masters of a larger territory encompassing Catalonia. The Crown of Aragón included the Principality of Catalonia and the kingdoms of Aragon, Valencia and Majorca (in the Balearic Islands). The marriage of Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon was a dynastic union in which the Kingdom of Castille and the Kingdom of Aragon were under the same crown but kept their own laws, power structures, borders and monetary systems.\n\nRegional unrest led to conflicts such as the Revolt of the Germanies in Valencia and Majorca, and the 1640 revolt in Catalonia known as the Reapers' War. This latter conflict embroiled Spain in a larger war with France as many Catalan nobles allied themselves with Louis XIII. The war continued until 1659 and ended with the Peace of the Pyrenees, which effectively partitioned Catalonia as the northern strip of the March came under French rule, while the rest remained under Spanish hegemony. The Catalan government took sides with the Habsburg pretender against the Bourbon one during the War of the Spanish Succession that started in 1705 and ended in 1714. The Catalan failure to defend the continuation of Habsburg rule in Spain culminated in the surrender of Barcelona on 11 September 1714 which came to be commemorated as Catalonia's National Day.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic Wars, much of Catalonia was seized by French forces by 1808, as France ruled the entire country of Spain briefly until Napoleon's surrender to Allied Armies. In France, strong assimilationist policies integrated many Catalans into French society, while in Spain a Catalan identity was increasingly suppressed in favor of a Spanish national identity. The Catalans regained autonomy during the Spanish Second Republic from 1932 until Francisco Franco's nationalist forces retook Catalonia by 1939. It was not until 1975 and the death of Franco that the Catalans as well as other Spaniards began to regain their right to cultural expression, which was restarted by the Spanish Constitution of 1978. Since this period, a balance between a sense of local identity versus the broader Spanish one has emerged as the dominant political force in Catalonia. The former tends to advocate for even greater autonomy and independence; the latter tends to argue for maintaining either a status quo or removal of autonomy and cultural identity, depending on the leanings of the current government. As a result, there tends to be much fluctuation depending on regional and national politics during a given election cycle. Given the stronger centralist tendencies in France, however, French Catalans display a much less dynamic sense of uniqueness, having been integrated more consistently into the unitary French national identity.\n\nThe vast majority of Catalans reside in the autonomous community of Catalonia, in the northeast part of Spain. At least 100,000 Catalan speakers live in the \"Pays Catalan\" in France. An indeterminate number of Catalans emigrated to the Americas during the Spanish colonial period and to France in the years following the Spanish Civil War.\n\nDescribed by author Walter Starkie in \"The Road to Santiago\" as a subtle people, he sums up their national character with a local term \"seny\" meaning \"common sense\" or a pragmatic attitude toward life. The counterpart of Catalan \"seny\" is \"rauxa\" or madness, epithomized by \"crazy\", eccentric and creative Catalan artists like Antoni Gaudí, Salvador Dalí, Joan Miró or Antoni Tàpies. The \"masia\" or \"mas\" is a defining characteristic of the Catalan countryside and includes a large house, land, cattle, and an extended family, but this tradition is in decline as the nuclear family has largely replaced the extended family, as in the rest of western Europe. Catalans in Spain are recognised as a \"nationality\" and enjoy a high degree of political autonomy, leading to reinforcement of a Catalan identity.\n\nThe Catalan language is a Romance language. It is the language closest to Occitan, and it also shares many features with other Romance languages such as Spanish, French, Portuguese, Aragonese, and Italian. There are a number of linguistic varieties that are considered dialects of Catalan, among them, the dialect group with the most speakers, Central Catalan.\n\nThe total number of Catalan speakers is over 9.8 million (2011), with 5.9 million residing in Catalonia. More than half of them speak Catalan as a second language, with native speakers being about 4.4 million of those (more than 2.8 in Catalonia). Very few Catalan monoglots exist; basically, virtually all of the Catalan speakers in Spain are bilingual speakers of Catalan and Spanish, with a sizeable population of Spanish-only speakers of immigrant origin (typically born outside Catalonia or with both parents born outside Catalonia) existing in the major Catalan urban areas as well. In Roussillon, only a minority of French Catalans speak Catalan nowadays, with French being the majority language for the inhabitants after a continued process of language shift.\n\nThe inhabitants of the Aran valley count Aranese–an Occitan dialect–rather than Catalan as their own language. These Catalans are also bilingual in Spanish.\n\nIn September 2005, the .cat TLD, the first Internet language-based top-level domain, was approved for all web pages intending to serve the needs of the Catalan linguistic and cultural community on the Internet. This community is made up of those who use the Catalan language for their online communication or promote the different aspects of Catalan culture online.\n\nThe traditional dress (now practically only used in folkloric celebrations) included the \"barretina\" (a sort of woollen, long cap usually red or purple in colour) and the \"faixa\" (a sort of wide belt) among men, and \"ret\" (a fine net bag to contain hair) among women. The traditional footwear was the \"espardenya\" or espadrille.\n\nThe Catalan diet is part of the Mediterranean diet and includes the use of olive oil. Catalan people like to eat veal (\"vedella\") and lamb (\"xai\").\n\nThere are three main daily meals:\n\nIn Catalan gastronomy, \"embotits\" (a wide variety of Catalan sausages and cold meats) are very important; these are pork sausages such as \"botifarra\" or \"fuet\". In the past, bread (similar to French bread) figured heavily in the Catalan diet; now it is used mainly in the morning (second breakfast, especially among young students and some workers) and supplements the noon meal, at home and in restaurants. Bread is still popular among Catalans; some Catalan fast-food restaurants don't serve hamburgers, but offer a wide variety of sandwiches.\n\nIn the past, the poor ate soup every day and rice on Thursday and Sunday.\n\nThe discipline of abstinence, not eating meat during Lent, once was very strong, but today it is only practiced in the rural areas.\n\nSpicy food is rare in the Catalan diet but there are quite garlicky sauces such as \"allioli\" or \"romesco\".\n\nOne type of Catalan dish is \"escudella\", a soup which contains chick peas, potatoes, and vegetables such as green cabbage, celery, carrots, turnips, and meats such as \"botifarra\" (a Catalan sausage), pork feet, salted ham, chicken, and veal. In Northern Catalonia, it is sometimes called \"ollada\".\n\nOther Catalan dishes are \"calçots\" (similar to leeks and often eaten with a romesco sauce) and \"escalivada\".\n\nCatalan music has one of the oldest documented musical traditions in Europe.\n\nThe traditional religion in Catalonia is Roman Catholicism. However, in the course of recent history, Catalonia has undergone several waves of secularization.\n\nThe first wave of secularization happened during the eighteenth century as a result of the enlightenment influence to the bourgeoisie. The second one happened during the nineteenth century, that had a huge impact on the lower and middle class, but was interrupted by the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War (1936–1939).\n\nAfter the Francoist regime, the population, dissatisfied with the dictatorship, accused the Catholic Church of being a supporter of the regime and this led to another wave of secularization that extends since the 1980s. During the 1990s most of the population of Catalonia was non-practising Catholic. Nowadays 52.4% of Catalans are Catholic, practising or not, 30.2% of Catalans are agnostic or atheist, and there is also a considerable amount of other religions: 7.3% Muslim, 2.5% Evangelical, 1.3% Buddhism, and 1.2% Orthodox Christians.\n\nCatalonia is one of the richest and most well developed regions in Southern Europe. Barcelona is among the most industrialized metropolises and a both regional capital and a magnet for various migrants from other regions in Spain, as well as from foreign countries.\n\nFire is the element used in most important traditional festivals, which are derived from pagan roots. These celebrations have a high acceptance of fire between the Catalans, like the Flame of Canigó to the Bonfires of Saint John.\n\nHistorical memory is the second axis of celebrations in Catalonia, where the Catalan people reunite with their date of birth as a people. This explains the many parties associated with the Reconquest, especially Moors and Christians, like in Lleida.\n\nFinally, the religious celebrations are the last pillar. Amongst them are St. George's Day and the celebrations of Saint Vincent Martyr and Saint Anthony Abbot. The maximum expressions of this element are the Easter processions and performances of the Passion. Some festivals have a complicated relationship with religion, such as Carnival and Dance of Death, or specific aspects such as the Tió de Nadal (Christmas piñata) and the \"Caganer\".\n\nOther key elements of a Catalan celebration are: food, central to every party and especially to the pig slaughter and harvest festivals; contests such as human towers, choice of major and festive floats; music, songs and bands; processions; dances; and animals, especially bulls and representations of mythological creatures. The Patum of Berga has been declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.\n\nBecause of their intertwining history, much of the traditional symbols of Catalonia coincide with Aragon, Valencia and the Balearic Islands. The oldest Catalan symbol is the shield of Catalonia, or \"bars of Aragon\", one of Europe's oldest heraldic emblems. A popular legend dates it back to the ninth century: it is said that the four red lines are the result of Charles the Bald's four fingers which smeared blood on the gold shield of Wilfred the Hairy (Guifré el Pelós) as a reward for having fought valiantly against the Normans.\n\nThe royal flag, inspired by the shield, is perhaps the most representative symbol of Catalan culture.\n\nAs for anthems, \"The Reapers\" (\"Els Segadors\") is the official anthem of Catalonia and is also used in the other lands of the Principality; the Balanguera represents the people from the Balearic Islands and, in the case of Valencia, the official \"Anthem of the Exhibition\" (\"Himne de l'Exposició\") alongside Muixeranga as symbols of the country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1305657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1305657", "title": "Christopher Nolan (author)", "text": "Christopher Nolan (author)\n\nChristopher Nolan (6 September 1965 – 20 February 2009) was an Irish poet and author. He was born in Mullingar, Ireland, but later moved to Dublin. He was educated at the Central Remedial Clinic School, Mount Temple Comprehensive School and at Trinity College, Dublin. His first book was published when he was fifteen. He won the Whitbread Book Award for his autobiography in 1987. He was also awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Letters in the UK, the medal of excellence from the United Nations Society of Writers, and a Person of the Year award in Ireland.\n\nChristopher Nolan was born to parents Joseph and Bernadette Nolan. He grew up in Mullingar, Ireland. Due to asphyxiation at birth, Christopher was born with permanent impairment of his \"nerve-signaling system, a condition he said is now labelled dystonia.\" Because of these complications, Nolan was born with cerebral palsy, and could only move his head and eyes. At the beginning of his life people believed he was intellectually disabled, but his mother proved them wrong. Bernadette brought her son to see Dr. Ciaran Barry. He was a consultant of physical medicine and rheumatology who possessed a particular interest in children with cerebral Palsy. Dr. Barry was attached to the Central Remedial Clinic. He played games with Christopher, the toddler, and in so doing noted the child anticipated his actions and informed his mother that he was of sound mind. \n\nDue to the severity of the palsy, he used a wheelchair. In an interview, his father explained how, at the age of 10, he was placed on medication by Dr. Barry that \"relaxed him so he could use a pointer attached to his head to type.\" To write, Nolan used a special computer and keyboard; in order to help him type, his mother held his head in her cupped hands while Christopher painstakingly picked out each word, letter by letter, with a pointer attached to his forehead.\n\nHe communicated with others by moving his eyes, using a signal system. When he was young, his father told him stories and read passages from James Joyce, Samuel Beckett and D. H. Lawrence to keep his mind stimulated. His mother strung up letters of the alphabet in the kitchen, where she kept up a stream of conversation. His sister, Yvonne, sang songs and acted out skits. His mother stated that \"he wrote extensively since the age of 11 and went on to write many poems, short stories and two plays, many of which were published.\" Many of the writings described here by Nolan's mother were compiled for his first publication, the chapbook Dam-Burst of Dreams.\n\nUpon becoming a teenager, Nolan received his education from the Central Remedial Clinic School, Mount Temple Comprehensive School and at Trinity College, Dublin. His first book was published when he was fifteen; he was also awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Letters in the UK, the medal of excellence from the United Nations Society of Writers, and a Person of the Year award in Ireland. At the age of fifteen, he published his collection of poems titled \"Dam-Burst of Dreams\". He wrote an account of his childhood, \"Under the Eye of the Clock\", published by St. Martin's Press, which won him the UK's Whitbread Book of the Year Award in 1987 at the age of 21. He soon dropped out of Trinity College to write a novel entitled \"The Banyan Tree\" (1999).\n\nNolan spent more than a decade writing \"The Banyan Tree\". According to \"The New York Times\" the book is a multigenerational story of a dairy-farming family in Nolan's native county of Westmeath. The story is seen through the eyes of the aging mother. It was inspired, he told \"Publishers Weekly\", by the image of \"an old woman holding up her skirts as she made ready to jump a rut in a field.\" A review of the book was done in \"The New York Times\" by Maghan O’Rourke. She reviews the book and relates it to James Joyce's \"Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man\", in the story the protagonist leaves his mother in Ireland while he moves on to travel the world. Nolan however, gives the reader a version of the mother's story. \"And so, in the end, one suspects that he wants Minnie's good-natured, commonplace ways to stand as their own achievement, reminding us that life continues in the places left behind.\"\n\nWhile working on a new novel, on 20 February 2009, Nolan died suddenly, aged 43. However, nothing has been released from the book since his death.\n\nChristopher Nolan died at age 43 in Beaumont hospital in Dublin on 20 February 2009. He died after a piece of salmon became trapped in his airway. Irish president Mary McAleese, upon hearing the news, said:\n\nMinister for Arts Martin Cullen TD reflected that people should draw inspiration from Nolan's life. \"With grace and courage, and with the support of his family, he never gave up and he never gave in [...] His bold creativity has ensured a written legacy.\"\n\nNolan's autobiography \"Under the Eye of the Clock\" (published 1987), won the Whitbread Award and was named Book of the Year. Although an autobiography, it is narrated by a fictional character named Joseph Meehan who details Nolan's life as a third-person biography. The book reveals the deep relationship between Nolan and his mother, whom he calls Nora. \"Under the Eye of the Clock\" shows how Nolan's parents engaged him in conversation and outdoor activities like hiking and horseback riding. The book was a best-seller in Britain and the United States. Nolan's writing style is often compared to James Joyce and Dylan Thomas. Critics also point out Nolan's distinct writing style omits articles and uses participle construction other than relative clauses.\n\nNolan wrote \"The Banyan Tree\" (published 1999) in perspective of a country woman, Minnie O’Brien. The novel spans 80 years of Minnie’s life, cutting from present to past to show the individuality of a woman and a mother who is determined to save the family’s farm. The \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" appreciated \"Nolan's soaring language and lilting alliterative style [which] suffuse [...] much of the book with a sense of the miraculous\" and the \"New York Times Book Review\" found it \"richly – even baroquely – told [...] Nolan writes with verve.\"\n\n\"Dam-Burst of Dreams\" (published 1981), provided Nolan critical acclaim that compared him to the works of W. B. Yeats and James Joyce. The collection was published four years after Nolan was administered Lioresal but some of the poems were written when Nolan was just 12 years old. The title of the collection emphasized the theme surrounding most of the poems, the overflow and release of his mental intellect. His poems in the collection are heavy with alliteration, and incorporate words invented by Nolan utilizing the combination of pre-existing root words.\n\nNolan often discouraged inquiries about his literary influences. During an interview he once wrote: \"Everything is an influence to a person trapped in a nightmare!\" Nolan's enthusiasm for literature however was largely attributed to his father's appreciation of James Joyce, Samuel Beckett, and D. H. Lawrence. Every night his father would read him several passages from Joyce's \"Ulysses\" and other poetic works. Listening to such pieces not only kept Nolan stimulated but piqued his interest in writing his own poetry.\n\nIn a poetry competition hosted by the British Spastics Society, Nolan received praise from writer Edna Healey, wife of then Chancellor of the Exchequer Denis Healey. As a judge of the competition she was one of the early recognizers of Nolan's writing abilities. Healey was later invited as a guest on the BBC program titled \"The World this Weekend.\" On the broadcast in response to the question \"what was the most impressive moment,\" she remarked that reading Nolan's work: \"Was the highspot of my year.\"\n\nWhen enrolling him for secondary school, Nolan's family struggled to convince educators that Nolan would be able to function in a regular class setting. Mount Temple Comprehensive School headmaster John Medleycott believed it was possible to devise a set-up to accommodate Nolan:\n\nThanks to Medleycott, Nolan was accepted into Mount Temple and later was received by Trinity College, Dublin after Medleycott provided a personal recommendation.\n\nNolan's life story and works have been referenced to in several musical works. Rock band U2, whose members attended school with Nolan, wrote their song \"Miracle Drug\" (from \"How to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb\") about him.\n\nBono said of Nolan:\nOn R.E.M.'s 1988 \"Green\" album, the song \"The Wrong Child\" was inspired by Nolan's memoir \"Under the Eye of the Clock\". The song deals with a child who wishes to play with his peers outside but is instead laughed at. Throughout the song the refrain \"I'm not supposed to be like this / But it's okay\" is repeated several times.\n\nNolan was once approached by a Los Angeles film producer who was interested in making his biography into a movie. Nolan declined the offer and responded:\n\nEvery year, his secondary school Mount Temple Comprehensive School holds an award show in his honour.\nThe \"Eye of the Clock Awards\" are hosted in the last week of school for all students.\nThese awards are given to students for extraordinary efforts in school and are inspired by Nolan's efforts in school.\n\n"}
{"id": "23894231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23894231", "title": "Cyxymu", "text": "Cyxymu\n\nCyxymu is a screen name of a Georgian blogger who was targeted in a co-ordinated series of attacks on social networking sites Facebook, Google Blogger, LiveJournal and Twitter, taking the latter offline for two hours on August 7, 2009. The name mimics a Cyrillic spelling of Sukhumi (Сухуми), capital town in the Georgian breakaway region of Abkhazia. The blogger, who extensively covers the suffering of Georgian civilians during and after the War in Abkhazia, accuses Russia of trying to silence him using cyberattacks. Facebook came out in defense of Cyxymu, with chief security officer Max Kelly stating that “It was a simultaneous attack across a number of properties targeting him to keep his voice from being heard.\"\n\nCyxymu's Russian-language LiveJournal blog was a source of information from Georgia for the news media during the 2007 state of emergency and 2008 Russo-Georgian War.\n\nCyxymu's LJ blog had previously been targeted by denial-of-service attacks in October 2008, rendering the LiveJournal servers unavailable three times during October 26–27. The attack on Cyxymu is internationally seen as part of an ongoing cyberwar between Russia and Georgia.\n\n"}
{"id": "23944489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23944489", "title": "Dois I. Rosser Jr.", "text": "Dois I. Rosser Jr.\n\nDois I. Rosser Jr. is the chair emeritus and founder of \nInternational Cooperating Ministries (ICM). Under Rosser's leadership, ICM has built or is building over 6518 churches in 86 countries. Rosser is a longtime businessman in the Hampton Roads area and is chairman of the POMOCO Auto Group. He has served on the board for the Lausanne Committee for World Evangelization, Leighton Ford Ministries, Youth Focus, Prison Fellowship, and the Overseas Council for Theological Education and Missions. Rosser is also on the board of trustees of Hampton University and the United Way of the Virginia Peninsula.\n\nIn 1986, Rosser was named \"Unsung Virginian\" in recognition of his business, civic, and religious accomplishments, and in 2000, he received the Time Magazine Quality Dealer Award.\n\nHe currently lives with his wife Shirley in Hampton, Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "23286702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23286702", "title": "Eric Quizon", "text": "Eric Quizon\n\nEnrico Smith Quizon, also known as Eric Quizon is a Filipino actor, director, producer and writer. He is the 12th child of the \"King of Comedy\" Dolphy. He is a co-owner of Café Famous in Greenbelt, Makati. He is known for his character Francis, the main antagonist in \"My Dear Heart\".\n\nBorn Enrico Smith Quizon on January 20, 1967. He is the second son of his mother Pamela Ponti's four children. He has six half siblings.\n\n\n\n\n\nEric Quizon presently resides in Hong Kong.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50762664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50762664", "title": "Esther Passaris", "text": "Esther Passaris\n\nEsther Muthoni Passaris OGW (born 20 October 1964) is a Kenyan social entrepreneur, philanthropist and politician. She is the Nairobi County women representative in the bicameral Kenyan parliament, and a member of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) Political Party.\n\nIn 2013, she ran for member of parliament for women's representative for Nairobi County, on the Kenya National Congress political party ticket, but lost to Rachel Shebesh. She is regarded as one of the most well-known female public figures in Kenyan business and politics.\n\nPassaris was born in the coastal city of Mombasa to a Greek father and a Kenyan Kikuyu mother. She attended the Aga Khan Academies for her primary and secondary education. She enrolled in the Advanced Management Program course at Strathmore Business School, a program that was conducted in December 2006 between Strathmore University and the University of Navarra. She also has a Diploma in Law from the University of London. In October 2017, Passaris graduated from the United States International University Africa, in Nairobi, with a BSc International Business Administration.\n\nEsther Passaris is a known public figure in Kenya, who has sparked some controversy by her statements about other Kenyan politicians and businessmen. She has been a runner-up in Miss Kenya contest and is actively campaigning for the rights of woman in Kenya.\n\nThrough her \"Adopt a Light\" organization, Passaris has signed a deal with Nairobi city authorities in order to: \"Restore decrepit street lighting in exchange for advertising rights on the lamposts.\"\n\nPassaris ran for the women's representative for Nairobi County during the 2013 Kenyan general election, and was also a candidate for the post of Mayor of Nairobi. She is currently the Nairobi Women's Representative..\n\nShe was also CEO and the founder of \"One in a Million\" campaign which was operating under \"Driving Kenya Forward\", a non-profit charitable organization, aimed at fighting development challenges in Kenya, such as poverty and unemployment, and promoting urban and rural development.\n\nPassaris has two children with Kenyan businessman Pius Ngugi. In 2003, she filed a lawsuit against Ngugi for a breach of promise to marry, demanding a monthly allowance of KSh 200,000 (US$2,000), and a car to take their children to and from school. In August 2011, Passaris was sued by Ngugi, claiming she continued to demand more money despite agreeing to a truce in their previous case. Passaris' daughter and eldest child, Makenna Ngugi, is a singer.\n\n"}
{"id": "44172332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44172332", "title": "Gunther Holtorf", "text": "Gunther Holtorf\n\nGunther W. Holtorf is a German traveler who, often in company of his partner Christine, journeyed approximately across the world in his G-Wagen Mercedes Benz named \"Otto\", visiting 215 countries in 26 years.\n\nHoltorf had a lengthy career with Lufthansa beginning in 1958, and eventually became an overseas representative; he was later a managing director at Hapag-Lloyd. He developed a love of travel while working in Argentina. In 1989, Holtorf left his job to take an on-the-road journey, beginning with the idea of spending 18 months discovering the African countryside in his 1988 G-Wagen. He was accompanied on this initial trip by his third wife Beate, and after their divorce embarked on another leg with companion Christine beginning in 1990. The couple subsequently traveled a few months out of most years, with a hiatus in 2000 and most of 2001, until picking up intensity in 2005 and beginning to travel almost non-stop throughout the year. After Christine developed cancer, her son Martin sometimes took her place as Holtorf's traveling companion, beginning in 2007. After her final trip in May 2009, Christine settled in Bavaria, where the couple wed several weeks before her death in June 2010. Holtorf resumed traveling with Martin or with Elke Dreweck until 2014.\n\nFor the first five years, Holtorf and his companion traveled through Africa, thereafter shipping the car to South America to continue their journeys there. Through subsequent years, they traveled upwards through Central America, the United States and Canada before traveling south again and shipping the car to Australia and Asia and through the Caribbean and into other regions of the world. By the end of the voyage, Holtorf had driven through 179 countries in 26 years. In some countries Otto was the first personal car permitted belonging to a foreigner, and Holtorf was the first Westerner to drive in North Korea.\n\nHoltorf traveled inexpensively, avoiding hotels and sleeping in the car, from which the rear seats were removed, or in hammocks pitched near it, supporting his trips by map making. His map of Jakarta, begun before his voyages in 1977 but updated during them, is the first detailed map of the city. As of 2001, it was 385 pages long. Holtorf has also extensively photographed his voyage. His car is displayed in the Mercedes museum in Stuttgart.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46952723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46952723", "title": "Henry Hamilton Hadley", "text": "Henry Hamilton Hadley\n\nHenry Hamilton Hadley (19 July 1826 – 1 August 1864) was an American theologian.\n\nHadley was born in Fairfield, New York, 19 July 1826. He was the youngest son of Prof. James Hadley, of Buffalo, New York, and the brother of philologist James Hadley.\n\nHe graduated from Yale College in 1847. \n\nAfter graduation, he pursued for one year a general course of study at Yale, and then entered the Theological Department of the College. In Sept. 1850 he went to Andover Theological Seminary, where he completed his studies in preparation for the ministry in 1851. In May of that year, he became Tutor in Yale College, and continued in this office until Dec. 1852.\n\nAt the beginning of the year 1853, owing to doubts in regard to his fitness for the pastoral work, he turned his attention to the study of law, and removed to the city of New York. His scholastic tendencies, however, were too strong to be resisted, and in 1854 he returned to New Haven, where he devoted himself for four years to the careful study of the Hebrew language and the Old Testament Scriptures. For part of this period he was also employed as an instructor in Greek and Latin at the New Haven Collegiate and Commercial Institute. In 1858 he was appointed instructor in Hebrew, in Union Theological Seminary in New York, and in 1862 he became Assistant Professor of Hebrew in that institution. He continued in that position till the time of his death. In 1861, after the death of Prof. Gibbs, he was elected to the Professorship of the Hebrew language and literature in this college, but he held this office only for a single year, and during that time discharged its duties in connection with the duties of his place in New York.\n\nHe had already become one of the most successful and promising scholars in the country in his department, and in his death the cause of theological learning sustained a loss which is not easily measured. His devotion to the cause of the country in the American Civil War was manifested from the very outset. He was with great difficulty, and only by the urgent advice of his friends, prevented from enlisting as a soldier in the Union Army; and, when at length he gave up going himself, he provided successively two substitutes to serve in his place. Not content with this, after the close of the Seminary year in June 1865, he engaged in the work of the United States Sanitary Commission, and served in one of the Hospitals at City Point, Virginia. Here he was prostrated by sickness, and, after lingering for a while, was compelled to return homeward. He had pursued his journey only as far as Washington DC, when his death occurred, Aug, 1, 1864.\n"}
{"id": "1996334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996334", "title": "Inger Nilsson", "text": "Inger Nilsson\n\nKarin Inger Monica Nilsson (born 4 May 1959) is a Swedish actress and singer. She is a former child actress. She is primarily known for her portrayal of Pippi Longstocking in the Swedish-produced TV series of the same name during 1969 which was compiled, re-dubbed into Dutch and later also in English and many other languages, and released as two feature films in 1969. In 1970, she reprised her role of Pippi in two subsequent feature films. She currently works as a secretary in Stockholm, occasionally taking small stage roles.\n\nNilsson was eight years old when she was cast as Pippi Longstocking. First, she did a TV series and then three feature films. After Pippi Longstocking she was trained as a medical secretary, but chose to pursue a career as an actress. Nilsson was, among other things, property master at Östgötateatern and acted in several plays.\n\nIn 2000 the Swiss director Xavier Koller convinced her to take a role in his film \"Gripsholm\", based on a novel by Kurt Tucholsky.\n\nSince 2007 she has been appearing on the German TV-channel ZDF as the forensic pathologist Ewa in the TV-series \"Der Kommissar und das Meer\" ().\n\nIn 2009, Nilsson was a celebrity contestant on \"Kändisdjungeln\".\n\nIn 1975 Nilsson received a TP de Oro award in the \"Most Popular Personage\" category for her role in Pippi Longstocking TV series.\n\n"}
{"id": "2442611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2442611", "title": "James Stewart filmography", "text": "James Stewart filmography\n\nJames Stewart was an American actor who appeared in multiple film roles. From the beginning of his career in 1935 through his final theatrical project in 1991, Stewart appeared in more than 92 films, television programs, and shorts.\n\nStewart received several awards and nominations for his work. Eleven of his films have been preserved in the United States National Film Registry. His roles in \"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington\", \"The Philadelphia Story\", \"It's a Wonderful Life\", \"Harvey\" and \"Anatomy of a Murder\" earned him Academy Award nominations (he won for \"The Philadelphia Story\"). He also won a Golden Globe Award for his role in the television series \"Hawkins\".\n\nStewart made his mark in screwball comedies, suspense thrillers, westerns and family comedies. While he worked multiple times with directors such as Anthony Mann (\"Winchester '73\", \"Bend of the River\", \"Thunder Bay\", \"The Naked Spur\", \"The Glenn Miller Story\", \"The Far Country\", \"The Man from Laramie\", and \"Strategic Air Command\"), Alfred Hitchcock (\"Rope\", \"Rear Window\", \"The Man Who Knew Too Much\" and \"Vertigo\"), Henry Hathaway (\"Call Northside 777\" and \"How the West Was Won\"), and John Ford (\"Two Rode Together\", \"The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance\" and \"Cheyenne Autumn\"), he also worked with Frank Borzage (\"The Mortal Storm\"), Ernst Lubitsch (\"The Shop around the Corner\"), Frank Capra (\"It's a Wonderful Life\", \"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington\", and \"You Can't Take it With You\"), Billy Wilder (\"The Spirit of St. Louis\"), and Otto Preminger (\"Anatomy of a Murder\").\n\nActors with whom Stewart worked include Henry Fonda, Clark Gable, Cary Grant, Spencer Tracy, John Wayne, Rock Hudson, Lionel Barrymore, William Powell, Edward G. Robinson, Lee Marvin, Robert Ryan, Oliver Reed, Richard Widmark, Robert Mitchum, and Harry Morgan. His leading ladies include Margaret Sullavan, Katharine Hepburn, Paulette Goddard, Joan Crawford, Jean Harlow, Joan Fontaine, Jean Arthur, Bette Davis, Hedy Lamarr, Marlene Dietrich, Grace Kelly, Kim Novak, Maureen O'Hara, Donna Reed, Ginger Rogers, Natalie Wood, Eleanor Powell, Doris Day, and June Allyson.\n\nFor a number of years exhibitors voted James Stewart as among the most popular stars in the country:\n\nStewart had made guest appearances on television, \"The Jack Benny Program\", in the 1950s, but first starred in \"Flashing Spikes\", an hour-long episode of \"Alcoa Premiere\" directed by John Ford. In the early 1970s, he transitioned his career from cinema to television. For the series \"Hawkins\", Stewart received the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Drama. In 1972, Stewart reprised his role from the film \"Harvey\" in a television film of the same name.\n\n\"Incomplete listing.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56581951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56581951", "title": "Jen Gupta", "text": "Jen Gupta\n\nJennifer Ann Gupta, known as Jen, is an astrophysicist and science communicator based at the University of Portsmouth. She has presented on \"Tomorrow's World\" on the BBC.\n\nGupta grew up in Winchester and completed her A-Levels at Peters Symonds Sixth Form College. She completed her Masters at the University of Manchester, before beginning a PhD at the university's Jodrell Bank Centre for Astrophysics. She earned her PhD \"Multiwavelength Studies of Radio-loud Active Galactic Nuclei in the Fermi Era\" in 2012.\n\nGupta began science communication during her PhD, taking a major role in \"The Jodcast\" and performing astronomy-inspired stand-up comedy on stage at Bright Club, in Manchester and at London's Bloomsbury Theatre. That year she completed a daylong road trip to see the seven MERLIN telescopes in a day. Gupta is involved with the training of UK-based physics teachers. She has the co-hosted a number of episodes of the BBC's \"Tomorrow's World\".\n\nIn 2016 she featured in a series of portraits commissioned by the Royal Astronomical Society celebrating leading women in astronomy. That year, she gave an invited talk at the Royal Institution \"The invisible night sky\". She delivers regular talks at astronomical societies around the South East of England. In 2015 she hosted Stargazing Live from the Portsmouth Historic Dockyard. \n\nAlongside public talks about astronomy, Gupta is interested in science comedy. That year she hosted BAHFest, a celebration of well-argued but incorrect scientific theory. Gupta is the founder and co-host of the Astronomy podcast \"Seldom Sirius.\"\n\nIn 2011 she won I'm a Scientist, Get me out of here! Gupta joined the Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation at the University of Portsmouth in 2012. She is responsible for outreach, public engagement and evaluation. Gupta typically works with 10,000 school children and members of the public each year.\n"}
{"id": "57448778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57448778", "title": "Johannes-Andreas Hanni", "text": "Johannes-Andreas Hanni\n\nJohannes-Andreas Hanni (1957 – 6 November 1982) was a Soviet-Estonian serial killer who murdered three people in Estonia in 1982 with the aid of his wife Pille. \n\nJohannes-Andreas Hanni grew up in a family of devout Baptists and was, he later claimed, badly treated by his parents; particularly by his minister father , whom he came to hate. He had a lengthy record as a juvenile repeat criminal offender and spent a number of his adolescent years in prisons and reformatories. He married Pille Toomla, a trolley driver, on 11 December 1981 and worked as a waiter in the Palace Hotel restaurant in Tallinn.\n\nHanni stabbed to death his first victim, Eimar Vibo, a sailor from Saaremaa, on 5 March 1982 in Valdeku Street in Nõmme and cut out part of his thigh and brought with him to his home. He then explained to his wife Pille that he was going to eat it as he \"had wished to try out eating human flesh for a long time already\". According to a later interview with police, Pille claimed her husband did this with \"pleasure\"; frying the meat in a pan on top of the stove. On 23 May 1982, in Jõhvi, Hanni stabbed to death a 75-year-old Belarusian pensioner named Ivan Sivitsky in his garden cottage sauna and cut off his genitals, wishing to use it as some kind of a dildo.\n\nIn late July the same year he raped and killed a middle-aged Russian female vagrant named Yevgenia Koltsova who was picking raspberries in the forest between Laagri and Saue. In late August 1982, Hanni and his wife planned to murder a random taxi driver in Tallinn and on 2 September 1982, the pair carried out the plan; attacking driver Alari Kivi with a knife. Kivi fought back but was left with serious, but not life-threatening injuries. Hanni was arrested in connection to the attack and three murders on 2 October 1982.\n\nBefore the court hearings, a psychiatric evaluation of three specialists took place; among them, noted Estonian psychiatrist Anti Liiv. He later wrote: \"The Cannibal was especially charmed by female lingerie. He himself preferred to sleep always in female nightgown and at the time of an intercourse he put on a bra. In addition, the Cannibal had (with the knowledge of his wife) a multitude of lovers from both sexes.\"\n\nJohannes-Andreas Hanni later hanged himself in prison before sentencing in November of 1982. His wife, Pille Hanni, was convicted on charges of accessory to murder and spent nearly twelve years in Harku women's prison before being released. She later changed her name and moved to Finland.\n\nIn 2008, Pille Hanni shocked the Estonian public when she published the book \"Ma armastasin kiskjat\" (\"I Loved the Predator\"). Critics such as psychiatrist Anti Liiv took issue with Hanni profiting from the murders and painting herself as a victim, rather than as a willing participant in the murders.\n"}
{"id": "42400489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42400489", "title": "John Bernard Philip Humbert, 9th Count de Salis-Soglio", "text": "John Bernard Philip Humbert, 9th Count de Salis-Soglio\n\nJohn Bernard Philip Humbert de Salis, 9th Count de Salis-Soglio, TD, \"John da Buri\", Graf v. Salis-Soglio, (London, 16 November 1947-Cà Buri, Mezzane di Sotto, Veneto, Italy 14 March 2014); SRI Comes, \"Illustris et Magnificus\"; former ICRC delegate and envoy; Knight Grand Cross of Honour and Devotion (2000) of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta (knight, 1974), and Knight Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Order of Malta with Swords, first ambassador of the Order to Thailand 1986-98, Cambodia 1993-98, president of its Swiss Association (1995-2000) and of CIOMAL (Comité International de l'Ordre de Malte), 2000–08; British soldier and lawyer; Valpolicella vigneron and hereditary Knight of the Golden Spur.\nA Count of the Holy Roman Empire (Reichsgraf), (created by letters patent dated Vienna, 12 March 1748 for Envoy Peter de Salis-Soglio (1675-1749), of Chur and Chiavenna, and his son Jerome (Naturalized British in 1731), by Emperor Francis I), John de Salis was the only child of Lt. Colonel John Eugène, 8th Count de Salis (1891-1949), Irish Guards, by his Roman wife Maria Camilla (1926-1953), daughter of General Umberto Presti di Camarda by Teresa (d.1993), daughter of Filippo Nereo Vignola, of Mezzane and Verona.\n\nThe grandson of the British diplomat, Irish landowner and Catholic re-convert Sir John Francis Charles, 7th Count de Salis-Soglio, his earliest years were spent at 10 Priory Walk, Kensington, and 26 Roedean Crescent, Roehampton Gate, SW15. His father died when he was under two and his mother when he was five, his step-father when he was 10 and one of his two paternal uncles when he was four. His paternal grandparents had also died, in 1902 and 1939, so he was subsequently brought-up, inter-alia, by Franco-Belgian cousins in France (the widow and family of the 3rd Duc de Magenta at Sully, in particular), his remaining paternal uncle in Wiltshire, and his Veronese maternal grandmother, Teresa Vignola Presti.\n\nHe was educated at Downside, read law at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge (LLB (1972) and LLM), and was called to the Bar, Grays Inn (1970). Later he was a tenant and then door-tenant, at 1 Brick Court, Middle Temple, EC4, and from 1972 lived at 12 First Street, SW3 and then from 1975 in two houses knocked together at 28 Upper Cheyne Row, Chelsea, SW3. Whilst in London he was also a member of the board of management of the Hospital of St John and St Elizabeth.\n\nAlongside learning and practicing the law he served in the Cambridge University Officer Training Corps (CUOTC), the HAC (within the Territorial and Army Volunteer Reserve), then in 1972, after meeting its then Colonel, Viscount Monckton, one of whose sisters-in-law happened to be married to one of John's first cousins, transferred to the 9th/12th Royal Lancers (Prince of Wales's). He was with them in Northern Ireland and retired a (Brevet) Major in 1988, having circa 1984 been awarded the Territorial Decoration.\n\nThe combination of law of war, humanitarian instincts, soldiering and some family precedent (his father had been the Knight of Justice of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem delegate for the revision of the Geneva Convention in July 1929) lead De Salis to become the delegate of International Committee of the Red Cross Missions in the Middle East (Beirut, 1982) and Africa (Rhodesia), and head of delegation in Iraq (1980–81) and Thailand (1981-84, Cambodian refugees), and their special envoy in Lebanon (1982). In July 1983 de Salis wrote: \"It is a heartbreaking fact that ICRC being essentially concerned with the victims of armed conflicts, is more directly concerned operationally with the \"relief\" of suffering rather than its \"abolition\".\"\n\nOn leaving England and moving to Switzerland he became a special officer in the Swiss Army's Panzergrenadiers, and set about a new career as a financier: as partner of Gautier Salis et Cie Geneva (1989–96), vice-chairman of Bank Lips Zurich (1996–98), managing director of European Capital Partners (Switzerland) SA (1999-), and as director of Amadeus SA Geneva (2000-).\n\nIn the meantime he had taken over his grandmother's 160 acre farm in the Valle di Buri, Mezzane di Sotto, and developed it from dairy to vineyard. By 2010 Conti de Salis-Soglio Wines Verona had taken shape, partly inspired by his courageous and visionary Valtelline cousin Conte Cesare Sertoli Salis of Tirano and Milan (1952-2005) and his \"Canua Sforzato\", akin to Valpolicella's Amarone. John's eighteenth century ancestors, 3rd Count Peter in particular, had also been growers of hemp and vines in eighteenth century Valtelline.\n\nIn addition to the above Count de Salis was a member of the British Association of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta; had the Gold Medal with Swords (Beirut) 1982; was a Knight of Justice of the Sacred Military Constantinian Order of Saint George; a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the White Elephant (Thailand); and an hereditary Knight of the Golden Spur (Eques Auratus) (1571).\n\nHe was next male representative of Charles, second and last Viscount Fane and Baron of Loughuyre (aka Lough Gur), and of Vice-Admiral Francis William Drake, of Hillingdon, sometime governor of Newfoundland (1752-4), younger brother of the last Drake baronet of Buckland Abbey, and thus heir-general of Admiral Sir Francis Drake himself. His only listed recreation was \"melancholia\".\n\nHe was a member of the Cavalry and Guards', Beefsteak, Cercle de la Terasse (Geneva), Royal Bangkok Sports, and Chelsea Arts.\n\nHe was firstly married to Samaritana Contessina di Serego della Scala (born 1950 in Verona, Italy), daughter of Dr. Cortesia Conte di Serego, on 20 January 1973. Months later their marriage was annulled and then dissolved in 1985. They had no children.\n\nHe then married (Vers l’Eglise, Vaud 1986) Marie-Claude (born in 1956 in Geneva, Switzerland), third daughter of Swiss Army Colonel René-Henri Wüst and Marie-Thérèse Bussard. The couple had three children:\n\n"}
{"id": "8855560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8855560", "title": "Jorge and Lorena Gamboa", "text": "Jorge and Lorena Gamboa\n\nJorge Gamboa and Lorena Gamboa are a Spanish couple known for their singing appearances on television programming on different channels: as DayStar, Family Christian Network, Familia TV Network and TBN Enlace. They currently travel the world as Christian evangelists. And are pastoring a church in Houston Texas.\n\nThe couple first met at the First Christian Music Contest, \"Canto de Libertad\", in Costa Rica in 1987. At the time, Lorena was a singer in a band called \"Encuentro\" and a special education teacher. She was also a student in \"Cristo al Mundo\" (Christ for the World) and an active member in the \"Movimiento Cristiano Juventud Neuva\" (New Youth Christian Movement). Jorge was a soloist, musician, professional soccer player. They were married on September 17, 1988.\n\nThe Gamboas have recorded productions with widely varying styles and subjects. They became known as singers and teachers through the television program \"de pareja a pareja\", as well as through TBN Enlace, at time called \"La Voz de la Cuadra\" (The Voice Around the Block). Today they are the founders of Familia TV Network, based in Houston Texas.\n\nIn 1996 they joined Good News in Bad News Places Ministries and in 1998 they began their own full-time ministry as overseas evangelists preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ, imparting family seminars and have been in more than 60 countries around the world since they started. As an extension of their ministry they also belong to the Vida International Bible Institute and work as the Hispanic coordinators.\n\nThe Gamboas participate in local TV programs such as: \"de pareja a pareja\" at Channel 21.2 FAMILIA TV, Bendicion TV 43.4, Familia TV 27.4, Celebration at Daystar and Diles at International Spanish TBN in Houston, Texas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2684444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2684444", "title": "Kyle Turley", "text": "Kyle Turley\n\nKyle John Turley (born September 24, 1975) is a former American football offensive lineman who played eight seasons in the National Football League (NFL). Selected 7th overall in the 1998 NFL draft, Turley played five seasons for the New Orleans Saints and a year with the St. Louis Rams before a serious back injury sidelined him for the 2004 and 2005 seasons. He returned to football in 2006 as a member of the Kansas City Chiefs, where he spent the last two years of his career before announcing his retirement in December 2007. Turley's high level of play earned him All-Pro honors for the 2000 season and a Pro Bowl invite following the 2001 season. His career is best remembered by many for a 2001 incident in which he ripped off an opposing player's helmet and tossed it downfield, playing a key factor in his team losing the game but also earning the respect of many Saints fans for his defense of the quarterback. Turley played college football at San Diego State.\n\nFollowing his retirement from football, Turley set out on a music career that included the release of several albums and the launch of his own record label. Playing his \"power country\" style of music, Turley opened for a number of well-known musical acts, including in 2010 when he went on tour with Hank Williams III. Turley has also been outspoken and involved in a number of player health issues post-retirement, particularly in regards to the neurological problems resulting from his football career (early onset Alzheimer's, CTE symptomatic, seizures, vertigo) and his use of cannabis as treatment. Turley is a board member and active supporter of the Gridiron Greats Assistance Fund, an organization providing medical care and other forms of assistance to retired NFL players in dire need.\n\nTurley was born in Provo, Utah. He lived in Utah as well as the state of Washington before moving to southern California at the age of 10. Growing up Turley enjoyed surfing and skateboarding, and took an interest in music.\n\nTurley attended Valley View High School in Moreno Valley, California. He played defensive end during his only season of football as a senior in 1992, earning first-team all-league honors and attracting athletic scholarship offers from several universities seeking to recruit him. Turley also played baseball and was recognized with all-state honors as a wrestler.\n\nTurley played college football at San Diego State University, redshirting his first year in 1993. During his time on the scout team he practiced on both the offensive and defensive line, and was given the choice afterwards of where he wanted to play. Turley chose offensive line as it allowed him the opportunity to work with O-line coach Ed White, a 17-year veteran of the NFL who played in four Super Bowls. Turley's most notable achievements came his final season in 1997, earning first-team All-American honors and being named a semifinalist for the Lombardi Award and Outland Trophy. He was also twice named All-Western Athletic Conference first team during his time at SDSU. Turley was inducted into the Aztec Hall of Fame in 2011.\n\nTurley was selected 7th overall by the New Orleans Saints in the 1998 NFL draft. Initially not projected as a high first round pick, Turley's draft stock rose dramatically after turning in a stellar 4.93 seconds for the 40-yard dash at the NFL combine. Turley's performance caught the eye of then-Saints coach Mike Ditka, and the team subsequently made him the first offensive linemen selected in the 1998 draft. He signed a six-year contract on July 24, 1998.\n\nTurley played a total of five seasons for the Saints, making an immediate impact by starting 15 games his rookie season and earning all-rookie honors from \"Pro Football Weekly\", \"Football News\", and \"Football Digest\". A durable presence on the Saints offensive line, Turley missed only one game due to ankle injury during his five years in New Orleans. Turley would prove to be a versatile player as well, starting mostly at left guard his rookie season, then moving to right tackle the next three seasons, and over to left tackle in 2002. His strong play earned him first team All-Pro honors following the 2000 season and an invitation to the Pro Bowl as a substitute following the 2001 season. He would turn down the Pro Bowl invite to serve as grand marshall of the Endymion Parade during Mardi Gras, however.\n\nDuring his time in New Orleans, Turley became a fan favorite for his spirited style of play and colorful personality. His popularity especially took off after the helmet tossing incident of 2001, with many Saints fans lining up to buy his jersey afterwards. Turley's antics were less well-received among team management however, particularly leading up to his March 2003 trade when Turley engaged in a public dispute with general manager Mickey Loomis. Amongst players in the league, Turley came to be known by some as a dirty player due to his frequent use of cut blocks and ambushing of unsuspecting defenders. Turley defended his use of the cut block, noting that it is a legal maneuver and that he is simply doing his job within the rules of the game.\n\nTurley's football career is best remembered by many for an on-field altercation that occurred in a game against the New York Jets on November 4, 2001. Trailing 16–9 in the final minute of the game, the Saints were driving deep into opposition territory with the ball at the 6-yard line on second-and-3. After quarterback Aaron Brooks was tackled on a scramble to the 5-yard line, Jets safety Damien Robinson grabbed him by the facemask and proceeded to bend his body backwards while forcefully twisting his head to the side. Turley stepped in and separated the two, then picked up Robinson by the facemask and threw him to the ground as referees and players from both teams tried to break up the scrum. Turley emerged from the pile with Robinson's helmet in hand and proceeded to fling it across the field before making an obscene gesture. Robinson and Turley received offsetting personal fouls for the initial incident, but Turley was assessed an additional personal foul and ejected from the game for the helmet toss and obscene gesture. The penalty set the Saints back 15 yards and they ended up losing the game after failing to score on the drive. Saints head coach Jim Haslett said he initially considered cutting Turley before seeing a clearer view of the incident on film and discussing it with quarterback Aaron Brooks, who thought his neck had been broken at the time. Turley was subsequently fined $25,000 by the Saints organization and requested to attend counseling for management of anger issues. Many Saints fans applauded Turley's actions on the other hand, setting up a \"Kyle Turley Defense Fund\" to assist in payment of the fine and putting up \"Turley for mayor\" signs around the city. The incident occurred during a nationally televised game and received a significant amount of media attention afterwards, putting Turley's name in the national spotlight for the first time.\n\nTurley was traded to the St. Louis Rams on March 21, 2003, in exchange for a 2nd round pick in the 2004 draft. He was immediately signed to a 5-year, $26.5 million extension (in addition to the one year remaining on his contract), making Turley the fourth-highest paid offensive lineman in the league. With future hall-of-famer Orlando Pace already entrenched at the starting left tackle position, Turley moved to the right side and started all 16 regular games plus the single playoff game of the Rams 2003 season. During week 7, Turley suffered a severe concussion after taking a knee to the back of the head, but he was cleared for practice by mid-week and started the next game (as Turley would later attest in a January 2010 congressional hearing on the NFL's handling of concussions). In December 2003, Turley was featured on the cover of \"Sports Illustrated\".\n\nTurley underwent surgery to repair a herniated disc in March 2004. He re-aggravated the injury during training camp and was placed on injured reserve on August 28, ending his season. Turley ruled out a second surgery on his back and opted for a long rehabilitation instead, during which his weight dropped to 235 pounds from a normal playing weight of 310. In December, he was involved in a heated exchange regarding the matter with head coach Mike Martz, after which Martz filed a complaint with NFL security. No disciplinary action was taken as a result, but Turley admitted that hard feelings lingered. Turley also harbored feelings of resentment leading up to the incident, believing that the organization acted recklessly and carelessly in pushing him to return from back surgery too soon and advising him to play through initial onset of the injury during the 2003 season. During his continued rehabilitation in 2005, Turley suggested he may switch to the defensive end position to lessen the load on his back. He was released by the Rams on June 6, 2005, however, after failing a physical. He ended up spending the entire 2004 and 2005 seasons out of football, continuing his recovery and training for a return in 2006.\n\nAfter a mini-camp tryout at tight end for the Miami Dolphins, Turley signed a two-year contract with the Kansas City Chiefs on June 13, 2006, where he would compete for a starting job at the right tackle position. He started the first two games of the season, but recurring back problems and a shoulder injury late in the season ended up limiting him to 7 starts in 7 games played. He was also overpowered at times on the field due to playing below his normal weight from before his 2004 back surgery.\n\nTurley was released by the Chiefs in March 2007, but re-signed to a new one-year contract on July 26, 2007. Having regained most of his normal playing weight in the offseason, Turley reported to training camp at 300 pounds. Turley's health would again be an issue during the season however, as he dealt with hamstring, ankle, and back problems. He started 5 of 7 games played in and ended the season on injured reserve. Turley announced his retirement from football on December 21, 2007.\n\nTurley's passion for music began early in life, taking up the guitar at age 14. He listened to punk, grunge, and metal growing up as a teenager in southern California, and was also exposed heavily to country music from being around his father. During his football career Turley played in a number of bands in the offseason, including various cover bands and a death metal band named Perpetual Death Mode. He also jammed with other NFL players, and learned to play bass and drums. While living in New Orleans, Turley immersed himself heavily in the local music scene where he befriended a number of musicians, including Phil Anselmo from Pantera. Turley continued networking and honing his musical abilities in St. Louis, jamming with local musicians and performing at a number of charity events.\n\nA year after retiring from football, Turley moved to Nashville where he set his sights on pursuing a music career. He formed The Kyle Turley Band and released his first album, a 4-track self-titled EP, in 2009. His first full-length album, \"Anger Management\", was released in 2010 and included all songs from the earlier EP. The album sold over 10,000 copies and reached as high as No. 69 and 17 on the iTunes and AmazonMP3 country charts respectively, while also charting at No. 8 on Billboard's Heatseekers South Central chart. His next album, a 6-song EP titled \"Death, Drugs & the DoubleCross\", came out in 2011 and became the top selling album in New Orleans, as well as reaching #1 on Billboard's Heatseekers South Central chart and #28 on the Heatseekers chart overall. Turley's second full-length album \"Skull Shaker\" was released in 2013.\n\nTurley sings and plays guitar for The Kyle Turley Band. He describes his style of music as \"power country\", drawing influences from old-school country, heavy metal, Southern rock, and punk rock. Some of Turley's song lyrics make reference to his football career, including the tracks \"Flyin' Helmets\" and \"Anger Management\" which allude to Turley's helmet tossing incident. The song \"My Soul Bleeds Black and Gold\" is a tribute to the city of New Orleans and its football team, which in the years since his 2003 departure Turley has expressed regret for leaving.\n\nTurley has toured extensively with his band, including in spring 2010 when he hit the road with Hank Williams III across the western United States. Other acts that Turley has opened for include Lynyrd Skynyrd, Eric Church, Joe Nichols, George Jones, Jake Owen, David Allan Coe, Josh Thompson, and Kansas.\n\nDelta Doom is a two-piece doom metal project that Turley formed in 2013 with bassist Rob Ogles from The Kyle Turley Band. Ogles is the band's guitarist while Turley sings and plays drums. Their first album, a 4-track live EP titled \"Half Alive\", was released in December 2013. Delta Doom has toured as an opening act for the New Orleans sludge metal band Crowbar.\n\nTurley launched Gridiron Records in 2006, along with two of his friends Mike Doling (ex-Snot / Soulfly guitarist) and Tim Pickett (of EMI Music). Turley and Pickett are the current owners.\n\nIn addition to The Kyle Turley Band and Delta Doom, other acts signed to Gridiron Records include The Hairbrain Scheme, Unset, and Invitro.\n\nTurley has dealt with a number of neurological health issues since retiring from football in 2007. At age 34 he was diagnosed as symptomatic of chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), and in 2015 he was diagnosed with early onset of Alzheimer's disease. Turley has a seizure disorder, suffering a particularly severe episode in 2009 when he blacked out suddenly followed by several hours of slipping in and out of consciousness while seeking treatment in an emergency room. Turley also experiences bouts of vertigo, a condition that first appeared during his rookie season but which increased in frequency throughout his career and became a daily occurrence in retirement. Other symptoms that Turley has dealt with include depression, anxiety, rage issues, suicidal thoughts, migraine headaches, light sensitivity, and memory problems.\n\nTurley has been active in speaking about his personal experiences dealing with head trauma-related health issues and participating in efforts to reduce risks for current and future players. He testified before Congress in January 2010, giving account of a severe concussion sustained during the 2003 season and the medical care he received afterwards – noting that team doctors cleared his return to the field three days after being released from the hospital. Turley was a plaintiff in a class action lawsuit filed against the NFL seeking medical benefits and compensation for former players suffering from the effects of head trauma, initially resulting in a 2013 settlement of $765 million but later amended to allow for a payout expected to exceed $1 billion. Turley was featured in the 2013 documentary \"United States of Football\" examining issues of neurological health in the NFL and youth league football, and has been involved with efforts to educate and assist youth sports programs in head trauma prevention through the Just Cool Me - T.K.O. initiative. Turley has agreed to donate his brain posthumously to the Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy at Boston University to help advance research in the area of sports-related neurological disorders.\n\nTurley retired from football with an addiction to pain-killing drugs. He has criticized the manner in which painkillers are dispensed by medical staff in the NFL, stating that pills were handed out to players \"like candy\" after games. Turley also says team doctors gave him painkillers while concealing the true nature of a serious back injury in 2003, in an effort to keep him on the playing field until season's end. The condition required major surgery in the offseason and eventually led to his release from the Rams, also threatening to end his career at one point. In 2014, Turley was one of more than 500 former players who took part in a class action lawsuit against the NFL alleging similar complaints, also charging that team medical personnel neglected to inform players of the serious health risks of the drugs they were taking.\n\nTurley uses cannabis to treat the neurological issues that he suffers from post-NFL career. He credits cannabis with greatly improving his quality of life and even saving his life, after previously relying on numerous prescription meds with side effects that he says almost drove him to suicide. Turley completely eliminated his use of pharmaceuticals – including psychiatric and pain-killing drugs – beginning in early 2015 when he went cold turkey and switched to cannabis only. He has been active in speaking about his personal experience using cannabis, and in 2015 founded the Gridiron Cannabis Coalition to help advance policy change regarding the use of cannabis in professional sports. The organization is also involved with medical cannabis research, commencing a study in 2016 to examine the effectiveness of cannabis in treating chronic pain and depression.\n\nIn November 2016, Turley was among the signatories of an open letter addressed to the NFL, urging a change in the league's policy towards cannabis. The letter was penned by Doctors for Cannabis Regulation and signed by several other NFL players. Turley is also a member of the Doctors for Cannabis Regulation NFL steering committee.\n\nIn January 2017, Turley announced the launch of Neuro Armour (now Neuro XPF), a THC-free cannabis oil that is rich in cannabidiol (CBD) and various terpenes.\n\nTurley is a board member and active supporter of the Gridiron Greats Assistance Fund, a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization providing medical care and other forms of assistance to retired NFL players in need. Turley first became involved as an active player in 2007 when he pledged one of his game checks to the fund and challenged other players to do the same – many of whom joined in helping to raise several hundred thousand dollars. Announcing his pledge at a November 2007 press conference, Turley spoke of the debilitating football-related health problems and inadequate medical / pension benefits that many retired players face, a topic that had already been the focus of two congressional hearings earlier in the year. Turley became the first active player to publicly take up the cause, also taking NFLPA executive director Gene Upshaw to task at the time for failing to address the issue. After retiring from football, Turley continued to raise funding and awareness for Gridiron Greats through his music career, donating a portion of his album sales and concert revenues to the organization.\n\nThrough his involvement with Gridiron Greats, Turley was instrumental in the development of NFL Life Line, a 24/7 confidential crisis hotline for current and former NFL players. Turley conceived of the idea after Junior Seau committed suicide in May 2012.\n\nAfter living in Nashville for a number of years, Turley and his family moved to Riverside, California in April 2014, bordering the city of Moreno Valley where Turley grew up and attended high school. Turley has helped instruct the Arlington High School football team in Riverside, and also hosted a football camp at the school.\n\n"}
{"id": "6275187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6275187", "title": "La Colle", "text": "La Colle\n\nLa Colle (fl. 1736 – 1742) was a Monsoni chief who is known in Canadian history for this period because of the writings of La Vérendrye.\n\nIn the fall of 1731, construction began on Fort St. Pierre at the west end of Rainy Lake near the mouth of Rainy River. This was carried out by La Verendrye's nephew, Christopher Dufrost de La Jemeraye and his eldest son, Jean Baptiste de La Vérendrye over the winter of 1731-32. La Colle's main village was located in the vicinity of the fort.\n\nLa Colle was a chief with influence among the Monsonis, his own group of Swampy Cree, and also with other Crees and Assiniboine further west along the exploration route. Fort St. Charles, on Lake of the Woods was built in 1732, putting the explorer in closer contact with the Sioux. The La Vérendrye's did not want war between tribes and La Colle was largely able to keep the peace. However, he led at least one war party in 1741 where many Sioux were killed and captured. Father Claude-Godefroy Coquart, who was wintering at Fort Kaministiquia, noted that more slaves than furs would be shipped to Montreal that season because of this event.\n\nIt would appear that La Colle played a significant role in protecting La Vérendrye during his exploration and trade westward.\n\n"}
{"id": "68826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68826", "title": "List of Irish people", "text": "List of Irish people\n\nThis is a list of notable Irish people who were born on the island of Ireland, in either the Republic of Ireland or Northern Ireland, and have lived there for most of their lives. Also included on the list are people who were not born in Ireland, but have been raised as Irish, have lived there for most of their lives or in regards to the Republic of Ireland, have adopted Irish citizenship (e.g., Daniel Day-Lewis). The names are sorted by surname.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58012391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58012391", "title": "List of things named after John J. Pershing", "text": "List of things named after John J. Pershing\n\nGeneral of the Armies John Joseph \"Black Jack\" Pershing (September 13, 1860 – July 15, 1948) was a senior United States Army officer. His most famous post was when he served as the commander of the American Expeditionary Force (AEF) on the Western Front in World War I, 1917–18.\n\nPershing was immensely popular after World War I, and as a result a large number of organizations, equipment, streets and buildings are named after him throughout the United States and abroad:\n\n\n\nBerwyn, Illinois; Joliet, Illinois; West Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Muskogee, Oklahoma; Lincoln, Nebraska; Killeen, Texas (Fort Hood); Orangevale, California; Dallas, Texas; Saint Joseph, Missouri; Orlando, Florida; Fort Meade, Maryland\n\nHouston, Texas; Springfield, Missouri; Sunset Park, Brooklyn, New York City; San Diego, California\n\nDetroit, Michigan\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "180788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180788", "title": "Martie Maguire", "text": "Martie Maguire\n\nMartha \"Martie\" Elenor Erwin (before Maguire; born October 12, 1969) is an American musician who is a founding member of both the female alternative country band, Dixie Chicks and country bluegrass duo, Court Yard Hounds. She won awards in national fiddle championships while still a teenager. Erwin is accomplished on several other instruments, including the mandolin, viola, double bass and guitar. She has written and co-written a number of the band's songs, some of which have become chart-topping hits. She also contributes her skills in vocal harmony and backing vocals, as well as orchestrating string arrangements for the band.\n\nErwin learned several instruments at a young age, honing her skills with her younger sister, Emily Strayer (born Emily Erwin) and two schoolmates (a brother and sister team, Troy and Sharon Gilchrist) for over five years as a part of a touring bluegrass quartet while in high school. After graduation, the sisters forged an alliance with two other women they had met through the Dallas music scene, Laura Lynch and Robin Lynn Macy, forming a bluegrass and country music band, busking and touring the bluegrass festival circuits for six years. After the departure of Macy, and the replacement of Lynch with singer Natalie Maines, the band widened their musical repertoire and appearance. The result was a trio so commercially successful that it took the country music industry by surprise, with a number of hit songs, albums, and awards that have set records in the music industry. Erwin subsequently stood by her bandmates as they were engulfed in political controversy.\n\nMartha Elenor Erwin, nicknamed Martie, was born October 12, 1969, in York, Pennsylvania, to Barbara Trask and Paul Erwin. She was raised in Addison, a northern suburban town on the edge of Dallas, Texas. She has an elder sister, Julia Erwin-Weiner, born in 1967, her younger sister and band member Emily Strayer, born in 1972 and younger half-brother, R&B singer Ian Davis, born in 1996.\n\nEncouraged by her parents – educators at private schools – Erwin began playing violin at age five, and by age 12, started to learn to play \"fiddle style\" after receiving a birthday gift of fiddle lessons. She also was active in her school orchestra.\n\nHer sister Emily shared her love and interest in music, and displayed early talent herself. The two sisters were provided musical instruction on several instruments, and their talent for vocal harmony continued to be nurtured. Although Erwin became famous for her harmony and mastery of the fiddle, she also plays a variety of strings that include the viola, guitar, mandolin, and double bass. Erwin composes songs and arranges the use of stringed instruments for concert and recording performances.\n\nBy 1983, Erwin was touring with her sister Emily and school friends; siblings Troy and Sharon Gilchrist. The sisters showed an \"almost obsessive\" interest in busking at small venues and attending bluegrass festivals. The four students formed the teenage bluegrass group \"Blue Night Express\", playing together for five years, from 1984–1989, while still attending private Greenhill School. \"We'd drive down to the west end of Dallas and open our cases, and that was our job\", Erwin said of it in a later interview to 60 Minutes II correspondent Dan Rather. \"That's how we made money in high school.\" Also while in high school Erwin performed at Six Flags Over Texas in Arlington, TX, in a strolling duo with Troy Gilchrist for a summer.\n\nIn 1987, Erwin was awarded second place for the fiddle in the National fiddle championships held yearly in Winfield, Kansas. Upon graduation from high school, with Emily still in high school, she spent a year attending college at Southwestern University in Georgetown, Texas, from 1988–1989. She performed in the school orchestra there and again competed in the national fiddle championships at the Walnut Valley Festival, in Winfield, earning third place that year.\n\nIn the 90s she played occasionally with the slo-core band, Bedhead.\n\nIn 1989, Erwin and Strayer joined guitarist Robin Lynn Macy and Laura Lynch on double bass in the Dixie Chicks, playing what was at the time predominantly bluegrass music and a mix of country standards. Originally listed as Martha, and then Martie Erwin, Erwin played fiddle, mandolin, viola and harmonized with Strayer on backing vocals.\n\nErwin had begun writing and recording songs on their debut independent album, \"Thank Heavens for Dale Evans\", and in 2001, one song co-written with Laura Lynch called \"Pink Toenails\" resurfaced. The song was featured in the film, \"Don't Say A Word\", with Skye McCole Bartusiak performing the song.\n\nWhen their second album had a more polished sound, Erwin commented, \"I hope our fans won't be disappointed [in \"The Little Ol' Cowgirl\"]; it's got drums on every track; it's no longer bluegrass, but we have to make a living and you can't do that playing bluegrass.\"\n\nTwo albums later, after Natalie Maines assumed the position of vocalist, the band was revitalized. Erwin said of their music, \"It's very rootsy, but then Natalie comes in with a rock and blues influence. That gave Emily and I a chance to branch out, because we loved those kinds of music but felt limited by our instruments.\"\nErwin co-wrote the song, \"Cowboy Take Me Away\" on the Chicks sophomore studio album \"Fly\" for her sister Emily. It was a tribute to Emily's courtship with country music writer/singer Charlie Robison. Erwin was singled out by BMI in 2000, and awarded Songwriter of the Year for writing and/or co-writing \"Cowboy Take Me Away\", \"Ready To Run\" and \"You Were Mine\". \"You Were Mine\" was co-written by the sisters about their parents' divorce.\n\nIn 1999, the Dixie Chicks performed two songs, recording a cover of the song, \"You Can't Hurry Love\" as well as Erwin's \"Ready to Run\" for the Julia Roberts/ Richard Gere film \"Runaway Bride\". In 2003, Erwin was nominated for a Tony Award for co-composing the film score to \"Urban Cowboy\"; the musical used her \"Cowboy Take Me Away\".\n\nAfter the band achieved massive commercial success with its first Sony studio two albums with Maines, they struggled with their record company over artistic direction on the third. Erwin commented, \"I don't think any of us ever trusted Nashville. When you're in that town you know everybody is talking about everybody else. Everybody is wishing for the other guy to fail.\"\n\nAlthough Erwin and Strayer often appear quiet and demure compared to their animated bandmate Natalie Maines, the trio have stood united on controversial subjects since they banded together to play in 1995, even when their opinions have had the potential to serve them more harm than good. In 2006, Erwin said, \"I'd rather have a smaller following of really cool people who get it, who will grow with us as we grow and are fans for life, than people that have us in their five-disc changer with Reba McEntire and Toby Keith. We don't want those kinds of fans. They limit what you can do.\"\n\nWith Natalie Maines taking a break from music, Erwin was working on a solo fiddle album; however, it was announced in January 2010 that she and sister Emily Strayer have formed a side project called the Court Yard Hounds, with Strayer on lead vocals. The band made their live debut in March at South by Southwest with an album released in May 2010.\n\nMartie married pharmaceutical representative Ted Seidel on June 17, 1995, and changed her last name to Seidel. She also was stepmother to his son, Carter. However, her marriage did not last, and she and Ted Seidel were divorced in November 1999.\n\nAt bandmate Natalie Maines' sister Kim's wedding Martie met Gareth Maguire, a Roman Catholic teacher and actor from Northern Ireland. The couple became engaged in June 2001 and married on August 10, 2001, in a civil ceremony in Hawaii; as explained at one of their concerts, the Dixie Chicks' song \"White Trash Wedding\" is based on Martie's relationship with Gareth. Later they had a Catholic \"blessing\" ceremony in the groom's hometown, Carnlough in County Antrim, Northern Ireland, on March 9, 2002, for all the guests that were not able to attend the first wedding. Martie said of the ceremony that the Catholic Church would not permit a wedding service due to her prior divorce. Erwin said that there were many \"special\" people that they'd wanted to include, but that they just couldn't wait to marry. Another reason for the rush was Gareth's need to keep flying back and forth between the United States and Ireland because of visa considerations. After her second marriage, Martie changed her name to that of her new husband, which is why in her musical career she has had the surnames of Erwin, Seidel, and Maguire. They had three daughters together: fraternal twins Eva Ruth and Kathleen 'Katie' Emilie were born April 27, 2004. Katie was named after Gareth's late sister, Kathleen. Third daughter Harper Rosie Maguire was born July 25, 2008. They divorced in 2013.\n\nErwin has been frank about using invitro fertilization to conceive their daughters. In an interview in \"Conceive\", she said, \"All my paperwork said 'unspecified origin.' We spent three years of active trying before we went to IVF. First I went on Clomid. Then I had some dye tests and found I had a collapsed tube, so I had laparoscopic surgery; the tube wasn't blocked, just spasming.\" After three attempts at intrauterine insemination, she said, she and her husband didn't think it was worth continuing in that manner, and switched to IVF. In August 2007, Maguire began IVF again, resulting in their third daughter Harper.\n\nRegarding the number of children the Dixie Chicks have produced in the past seven years, (Maines has two; Strayer has four in addition to Erwin's twins and newborn) Erwin told \"People\", \"We'll have to move over and let the little chicks take over! We've got a new band!\"\n\nErwin and Strayer co-wrote a song, \"So Hard\", about their own personal experiences with infertility and their need to rely on other methods to conceive. They speak out about the difficulties they faced, but also their good fortune; both having options that for many women are financially prohibitive. Mentioning the stigma attached to IVF, Erwin said, \"I think we feel a responsibility to break down some barriers. It's much more of a common problem than people realize.\" A final concern Erwin mentioned was the question of what to do with all the unused frozen embryos.Now that I have children, I see those embryos as possible children. So I have to think about what my options are if there are leftovers again. I could keep them in storage, and maybe they will help my children some day. Or I can try to donate them to stem cell research. I don't think I could give them to another family. I would always worry: what if it's an abusive family? What if they don't get enough love?\n\nNatalie Maines has said she and Erwin learned Transcendental Meditation in the mid-1990s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4276918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4276918", "title": "Martín García Óñez de Loyola", "text": "Martín García Óñez de Loyola\n\nDon Martín García Óñez de Loyola (1549 in Azpeitia, Gipuzkoa – December 24, 1598 at Curalaba) was a Spanish Basque soldier and Royal Governor of the Captaincy General of Chile.\n\nAs a young man in 1568, he arrived in Peru at the side of the new viceroy Francisco de Toledo, Count of Oropesa, as captain of the guard. In 1572, during the military expedition against Tupac Amaru- the last descendant of the Incas resisting foreign domination - Oñez de Loyola lead a brilliant action of an advance column which fell upon the camp of the Inca and captured him.\n\nFor this great feat, he gained the rank of \"corregidor\" in a number of Peruvian towns, entitling him to their goods and labor. He was also rewarded with a wife, a member of the royal Incan house and niece of Tupac Amaru. She was baptized with the Christian name Beatriz Clara Coya.\n\nWith these recommendations, the king named him governor of Paraguay in 1592. However, just before he assumed the position, Philip II designated him Royal Governor of Chile, as he was considered the officer most apt to finish the War of Arauco.\n\nOñez de Loyola arrived in Chile on September 23, 1592. He was determined to pacify the Arauco. To further this end he immediately set out for Concepción at the head of 110 troops which he had met at the capital. However, he realized that with such scarce resources he would not be able to achieve his objective and he requested reinforcements from Peru.\n\nHowever, the appearance of the British pirate Richard Hawkins alarmed the authorities in Peru and their reinforcements were recalled for the defense of Peru itself. Hawkins also attacked Chile during his campaigns, assaulting Valparaiso, for example where he captured a ship. Because of the limited capacity of his ship, he only took things he needed and let the captured sailors go free.\n\nThe governor did not receive the requested soldiers, but members of the Jesuit and Augustinian orders did arrive. The first would have great importance for later events in the colonization of Chile, until they were eventually expelled.\n\nThe governor decided that he could not wait any longer and in 1594 he began a campaign to the south with the small contingent that he had assembled. He founded a fort at Santa Cruz de Oñez in May 1594, near the confluence of the Bio-Bio and Laja Rivers in Catiray, where gold mines were located on the Rele River. The fort was elevated to the rank of city in 1595 giving it the name of Santa Cruz de Coya.\n\nThree years later a group of 140 reinforcements arrived, but they were not enough. The lack of reinforcements was not the fault of the viceroy — who offered generous inducements to join the army — but rather the name of Chile, which had become so stained by the interminable conflict that no one wanted to risk their lives going to such a hell.\n\nThe governor was in La Imperial when news arrived that the Mapuches had renewed their attacks against Angol. In order to reinforce this point, he set out with 50 men on December 21, 1598. On the second day of the march they arrived at a place called \"Curallaba\" or \"Curalava\" (the broken rock), on the banks of the Lumaco River, where they rested without taking any precautions against attack. On the nights of the 23rd and 24th the natives approached the camp, and with shouts and the sounds of horns they attacked the Spanish.\n\nOñez de Loyola and a pair of soldiers at his side fought very valiantly, but finally succumbed to the spears of the natives. In the melee almost all the Spaniards died, save a cleric named Bartolomé Pérez, who was taken prisoner, and a soldier named Bernardo de Pereda, who received 23 wounds on his body and was left for dead but improbably survived.\n\nThe Mapuches then initiated a general uprising which destroyed all the cities in their homeland south of the Biobío River. They kept the head of Oñez de Loyola, giving it back years later to the governor Alonso García de Ramón.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55695432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55695432", "title": "MaryJane Mwangi", "text": "MaryJane Mwangi\n\nMaryJane Mwangi, also Mary Jane Mwangi, is a corporate executive in Kenya, who serves as the managing director and chief executive officer of the National Oil Corporation of Kenya, since August 2017.\n\nShe graduated from the University of Nairobi with a Master of Business Administration degree in 2006. She also holds a Higher Diploma in Human Resource Management, awarded in 2013, by the Institute of Human Resource Management (IHRM), based in Nairobi, Kenya's capital and largest city.\n\nShe started her long career in the consumer oil sector in 1993, working as an Export Manager for Agip Kenya Limited (AGKL), responsible for downstream distribution of fuels and oils from the depot in Mombasa to five countries in the African Great Lakes area, serving in that capacity until 1998. For one year, from 1998 until 1999, she served as the Customer Service Manager at AGKL. The next year, from 1999 until 2000, she served as the LPG Supervisor at AGKL.\n\nIn 2000, she switched companies and moved over to Shell/BP, as the LPG Manager, based in the coastal city of Malindi, serving in that capacity until 2001. In 2001 she moved again, relocating to Chevron/Caltex Kenya Limited, as a Sales Business Consultant, serving in that capacity for seven years.\n\nIn 2008, Ms Mwangi was appointed the Head of Sales & Marketing division at the National Oil Corporation of Kenya (NOCK), serving in that capacity for the next five years. In July 2013, she was promoted to the position of General Manager, Downstream Operations at NOCK, serving in that capacity until July 2016, when she was appointed Acting Managing Director and Acting CEO.\n\nAfter performing in an active capacity for one year, MaryJane Mwangi was confirmed by the board of NOCK, as the substantive CEO and Managing Director, for a three-year term effective 1 August 2017, replacing Sumayya Hassan-Athmani, who had resigned in July 2016.\n\nIn July 2016, in her capacity as Acting CEO, she jointed the board of directors of NOCK, and has been a member since.\n\nMaryJane Mangi is married to Martin Mbogo, the Manager of Tullow Oil Kenya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13341642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13341642", "title": "Mary Parker (Salem witch trials)", "text": "Mary Parker (Salem witch trials)\n\nMary (née Ayer) Parker of Andover, Massachusetts Bay Colony, the daughter of John Ayer, was executed by hanging on September 22, 1692, with several others, for witchcraft in the Salem witch trials. She was 55 years old and a widow. Mary's husband, Nathan, died in 1685. Nicholas Noyes officiated. Her daughter, Sarah Parker, was also accused.\n\nParker was an 8th great-grandmother of U.S. President George W. Bush, who is a descendant or relative of up to 217 of the trials' participants.\n\n"}
{"id": "1223460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223460", "title": "Movsar Barayev", "text": "Movsar Barayev\n\nMovsar Buharovich Barayev (; October 26, 1979 – October 26, 2002), earlier known as Suleimanov, was a Chechen Islamist militia leader during the Second Chechen War, who led the seizure of a Moscow theater that led to the deaths of over 170 people.\n\nMovsar Barayev, born 1979, was the nephew of the notorious Chechen warlord Arbi Barayev who allegedly worked under FSB guidance. After his uncle's death in June 2001 until his own, Movsar was the leader of a Chechen terrorist militia known as the Special Purpose Islamic Brigade (SPIR). Barayev junior was said to be a sworn enemy of the Chechen leader and elected president, Aslan Maskhadov. He used the \"nom-de-guerre\" of \"Yassir\".\n\nHe was incorrectly reported by the command of the Russian forces in Chechnya to have been killed on August 21, 2001, and again on October 12, 2002, eleven days prior to the Moscow theater crisis (this report of Barayev's death came from Colonel Boris Podoprigora, deputy commander of Russia's Joint Group Forces). It was also claimed that two months before the hostage-taking, the Russian GRU military intelligence had arrested Barayev and contained him \"until his release had provided leads to the hostage taking at the Dubrovka theatre\".\n\nOn October 23, 2002, Barayev and a mysterious man known as \"Abu Bakar\" led a group of some forty SPIR militants and their family members (who had dubbed themselves \"the suicide squad from the 29th Division\") to seize the theater in the Russian capital Moscow, demanding negotiations with Russian authorities for an end to the second war in Chechnya, withdrawal of Russian forces and Chechen independence, threatening to execute his hostages.\n\nMovsar Barayev was killed on the third day of the crisis, when the Russian FSB special forces stormed the theater. He died on his 23rd birthday. Barayev's bloodied corpse was shown by the Russian TV lying on the ground of the theater amid broken glass with an intact bottle of cognac near his hand. Later, the Russian authorities said his body was secretly buried in an undisclosed location.\n\n"}
{"id": "14500465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14500465", "title": "Ossetian mythology", "text": "Ossetian mythology\n\nThe mythology of the Ossetian people of the Caucasus region contains several gods and supernatural beings. The religion itself is believed to be of Sarmatian origin, but contains many later elements from Christianity, and the Ossetian gods are often identified with Christian saints. The gods play a role in the famous stories about a race of semi-divine heroes called the Narts.\n\n\nThe \"uac-\" prefix in Uastyrdzhi and Uacilla has no synchronic meaning in Ossetic, and is usually understood to mean \"saint\" (also applied to Tutyr, \"Uac Tutyr\", perhaps Saint Theodore, and to Saint Nicholas, \"Uac Nikkola\"). The synchronic term for \"saint\", however, is \"syhdaeg\" (cognate to Avestan Yazata). Gershevitch (1955) connects \"uac\" with a word for \"word\" (Sanskrit \"vāc\", c.f. Latin \"vox\"), in the sense of Logos.\n\nKurys (Digor \"Burku\") is a dream land, a meadow belonging to the dead, which can be visited by some people in their sleep. Visitors may bring back miraculous seeds of luck and good fortune, sometimes pursued by the dead. Inexperienced souls may bring back fever and sickness instead. Gershevitch (with V.I. Abaev) compares the name \"Kurys\" to the mountain \"Kaoiris\" in Yasht 19.6 (Avestan \"*Karwisa\"), which might indicate that the name is a spurious remnant of origin legends of Airyanem Vaejah of the Alans.\n\nOssetian folkore also includes several mythological figures including those in the Nart sagas including Batraz, a warrior hero.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6597868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6597868", "title": "Paul Robichaud", "text": "Paul Robichaud\n\nPaul Robichaud (born May 6, 1964 in Tracadie, New Brunswick) is a politician in the province of New Brunswick, Canada.\n\nHe studied at the Shippagan, New Brunswick campus of the University of Moncton. A member of the Progressive Conservative Party since 1985, he first ran for office in the 1995 but was defeated. He served from then until the next election as a Francophone organizer for the PC Party and ran again in 1999 when he was successful becoming the member of the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick for Lamèque-Shippagan-Miscou. He was re-elected in 2003, 2006 and 2010.\n\nHe joined the cabinet first as Minister of Fisheries & Aquaculture and then became minister of the enlarged Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Aquaculture. In a cabinet shuffle in 2001 he became Minister of Tourism & Parks a post he maintained until after the 2003 election when he took over the post of transportation.\n\nHe left the cabinet in 2006 as the Liberals won that year's election and formed the government.\n\n"}
{"id": "54268822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54268822", "title": "Prithvi Bahadur Pande", "text": "Prithvi Bahadur Pande\n\nPrithvi Bahadur Pande () is the chairman of Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIBL). He is one of the successful banker who took over the French managed Indo-Suez Bank and successfully operated for more than 15 years. He was an employee of Nepal Rastra Bank\nand had worked as director of Rastriya Banijya Bank and Himalayan Bank Limited before leading Nepal Investment Bank in 2001 through foreign investment. \n\nHe is the son of diplomat-historian Sardar Bhim Bahadur Pande and eighth descendent of Nepalese Kaji Kalu Pande. He has married the eldest daughter of First Governor of Nepal Himalaya Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana.\n"}
{"id": "57538090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57538090", "title": "Repatriation of Armenians", "text": "Repatriation of Armenians\n\nRepatriation of Armenians refers to the act of returning of ethnic Armenians to their historical homelands, particularly to the Republic of Armenia and the Republic of Artsakh.\n\nArmenians are an ethnic group who originate from the eponymous Armenian Highlands, located in Western Asia, between Anatolia, the Caucasus, the Iranian Plateau, and the Fertile Crescent. Most of the region is currently divided between Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Iran, and Turkey.\n\nUrartu, the predecessor of the Satrapy of Armenia, united the tribes of the highlands sometime in the 9th century BC, which eventually led to the emergence of the Armenian people. As the Armenian language spread, the highlands became homogenized.\n\nThe Armenian kingdoms that followed enjoyed sovereignty over the Armenian Highlands, but also often fell to the rule of foreign empires. However, when under foreign rule, Armenia often remained a self-ruling geopolitical entity, as a tributary or vassal state, and rarely under direct control of the ruling empire of the time. This allowed a distinguishable Armenian culture to develop and flourish, leading to the creation of its own unique alphabet and its own branch of Christianity.\n\nIt was in the 11th century, with the arrival of the Seljuk Turks, followed by waves of Turko-Mongol invasions around the time of the Mongol Empire, when Armenian self-rule in Armenia began to dramatically decline. By the time of the Timurid Empire in the 14th century, only pockets of Armenian autonomy remained, such as in Artsakh.\n\nAfter centuries of instability, the political landscape in the Armenian Highlands finally settled, divided between the Ottoman Empire ruling the western portion, and Iran ruling the eastern portion. The two empires' rivalry was often settled with battles in the heart of the Armenian Highlands.\n\nApart from the gradual emigration of Armenians due to persecution under Muslim rule, the first major forced displacement of Armenians from the Armenian Highlands in the modern era was at the turn of 17th century, when the Iranian king Abbas II moved Armenians from Iranian Armenia to the inner regions of his empire.\n\nUntil the beginning of the 20th century, Armenians continued to form the ethnic majority (but not religious majority) in most of Ottoman Armenia. The demographics of the region changed considerably due to the Ottoman Empire's policy of settling Turkish refugees from the Balkans during the Balkan wars into the region, and the emigration of Ottoman Armenians to Russian Armenia, the latter of which had been ongoing since the mid-19th century, when Iranian Armenia had been annexed by the Russian Empire.\n\nAfter the Armenian Genocide during World War I, the Armenian population of Ottoman Armenia ceased to exist, being reduced to negligible numbers. Many who remained hid their identities or were assimilated. The survivors who did not remain formed the Armenian Diaspora, a community of Armenians who have spread around the world.\n\nThe attachment of the Armenian people to their homeland was preserved within the Diaspora, through the establishment of Armenian communities and Armenian schools where their history was taught. Repatriation to Armenia became one of the goals of the Diaspora, but the incorporation of Armenia within the Soviet Union in 1920, the political and economic instability following Armenia's independence in 1991, its ongoing territorial conflict with neighboring Azerbaijan since 1988, and its location between two hostile countries (Turkey and Azerbaijan), have all been reasons for the disinclination of generations of Armenians in the Diaspora to leave the comfort of the countries they live in for Armenia, leading to assimilation and loss of interest in their ethnic origins among the younger generations (a circumstance sometimes called \"White Genocide\" among Armenians).\n\nIn the 16th century, the Ottoman Empire had conquered Transcaucasia from Iran, which reconquered it in the early 17th century. The local Armenians, who had been laid destitute by heavy Ottoman taxation, and the Shi'ite Muslims who had been persecuted for their beliefs, welcomed Iran as liberators. In 1603, news of an Ottoman counteroffensive reached the king of Iran, Abbas II, who ordered the displacement of the population of Armenians from the province of Erivan (roughly modern-day Yerevan and its surrounding provinces, Igdir, Nakhchivan, and Maku), particularly from the town of Julfa, and also from the province Van, as part of a scorched earth strategy. It is estimated that the number of Armenians who were displaced by 1605 was as high as 300,000. Over the following centuries, several nomadic Turkic and Kurdish tribes settled in the area and established khanates.\n\nIn the 19th century, Russia acquired all of Transcaucasia, including most of Eastern Armenia, as a result of wars with Iran (1804–1813 and 1826–1828) and with the Ottoman Empire (1828–1829 and 1877–1878).\n\nAfter the Russian Empire annexed Transcaucasia from Iran, they established the Armenian Oblast out of the Erivan Khanate. In 1826, the population of the khanate was 110,120, of which 20,073 (~18.22%) was Armenian. The Russian Empire, along with the existing Armenian community in Transcaucasia, promoted the repatriation of Armenians from the Ottoman Empire into the new oblast. As many as 45,000 from Iran and 100,000 from the Ottoman Empire left for the Russian-controlled territory. \n\nThe Russo-Iranian and Russo-Ottoman wars caused a sentiment of distrust for Christians within the Muslim empires, particularly in the Ottoman Empire, which was amplified by their ongoing losses to the Christians in the Balkans during the decline of the empire. Armenians were often accused of betrayal, leading irregulars opposing the Russian Empire to pillage and attack Armenians, and massacres such as the Hamidian Massacres. \n\nAlthough a number of Armenians preferred Ottoman or Iranian rule, Armenians from within Russia did instigate revolts and feelings of national awakening among Ottoman Armenians. Many moved to Transcaucasia to join the revolutionary organizations that aimed to restore Armenian independence for Ottoman Armenia. This ultimately became one of the factors that led the Ottoman leadership to commit genocide and eliminate all Armenian presence from Ottoman Armenia. The influx of Armenian refugees into Transcaucasia was accelerated drastically as the Armenian Genocide was being carried out starting from 1915. \n\nAfter the fall of the Russian Empire in 1917, the Armenian population of Transcaucasia declared the independence of the first Armenian Republic in 1918. The short-lived republic dealt with war from all side throughout the entirety of its existence. As the Ottoman Empire fell, the partition of the Ottoman Empire was being discussed at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919. The conference agreed that the Ottoman Empire had to surrender all of its territorial claims in Transcaucasia, but the parts of Ottoman Armenia to be awarded to the Armenian Republic was less clear, since its Armenian population had been extinguished during the Armenian Genocide. Additionally, Armenians faced Muslim uprisings in the region (i.e., the Kars Republic). Finally, in the Treaty of Sèvres, a large part of Ottoman Armenia was awarded to the Armenian Republic, today referred to as \"Wilsonian Armenia\", which the Ottoman government signed, but was never ratified.\n\nWhile some Armenians attempted to repatriate Western Armenia, the Republic of Armenia was unable to put the legally acquired lands under its control due to its conflicts with neighbouring Georgia and Azerbaijan. Additionally, the new Turkish nationalist government formed in Ankara by Kemal Atatürk rejected the Treaty of Sèvres, and by the end of the summer of 1920, Turkish nationalists occupied the territories awarded to Armenia, and the Muslim population of the territories were ready to take up arms against enforcing the provisions of the Treaty of Sèvres, as they believed Ottoman Armenia to be their land.\n\nUltimately, as the Republic of Armenia was incorporated into the Soviet Union, Western Armenia was incorporated into Turkey by the signing of the Treaty of Lausanne, which confounded the hope of the Armenian refugees who aspired to repatriation, but the treaty also changed the status of Armenian survivors who had found refuge in former-Ottoman territories such as Syria and Lebanon. Among the provisions of the Treaty of Lausanne was the requirement that refugees from Anatolia now living in former Ottoman territories be entitled to citizenship. For the authorities of the French Mandate for Syria and the Lebanon, this clause was providential. In 1924, Lebanese Armenians were naturalized en masse, and Armenians have never been able to repatriate it since.\n\nFollowing the Armenian Genocide, a vast number of Armenians had fled to countries near the Ottoman Empire, such as Syria, Egypt and Lebanon, and formed large Armenian communities. With the ceding of the Syrian territory of Alexandretta by France to Turkey in 1939, a second wave of migrations of Armenians to the Levant took place.\n\nIn the 1940s, the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic organized an international repatriation campaign. A sizeable number of Armenians from the Diaspora repatriated the years following World War II.\n\nFrom 1945 to 1953, the Soviet Union considered several different proposals for expanding their borders into Eastern Turkey. Part of these proposals included the acquisition of historical Western Armenian territories and the repatriation of Armenians from the Armenian diaspora. The territorial claims were renounced after Joseph Stalin passed away.\n\nArmenians who settled in Egypt lived in prosperity. Following World War II, only a few thousand persons answered the call for repatriation to Soviet Armenia.\n\nBetween 1946 and 1949, Lebanese President Bechara El Khoury’s administration provided assistance to Lebanese and Syrian Armenians who wished to repatriate to Soviet Armenia. However, Armenians felt more comfortable in Lebanon, and many of those who left Lebanon for Soviet Armenia in the 1940s under the Soviet Union's Armenian repatriation campaign returned to live in Lebanon, as Lebanon was considered a \"second Armenia\".\n\nOne of the main challenges of the Republic of Armenia is preserving its population numbers. Despite the recent rise in repatriation, the number of Armenians leaving Armenia is consistently higher.\n\nThe Republic of Armenia has made an effort to simplify the acquirement an Armenian citizenship for ethnic Armenians living abroad, by including the right of return for members of the Armenian diaspora, and since 2007 permitting dual citizenship. Diaspora Armenians who want to live and work in Armenia, but want to be exempt from military service can also apply for a special residency status, which gives them a special passport and the same rights as citizens except the right to vote or access to the same countries that an Armenia passport would. Survivors of the Armenian Genocide are granted Special Passports through a facilitated procedure, and the application fee is waived. \n\nSince the start of the Syrian Civil War, 16,623 Armenian Syrians found refuge in Armenia, of which 13,000 remained and repatriated (as of July 2015). The government of Armenia is offering several protection options including simplified naturalization by Armenian descent (15,000 persons acquired Armenian citizenship), accelerated asylum procedures and facilitated short, mid and long-term residence permits.\n\nAccording to Hranush Hakobyan only 15,000 Armenians are left in Syria and the rest have been settled in Armenia or Artsakh, with another 8,000 having left for Lebanon, and others going to destinations including Europe, the United States and Canada. However, Armenian foundations in Syria estimate around 35,000 are left based on rough estimates.\n\nAzerbaijan has raised concerns over settlement of Syrian Armenians in the disputed territory of the Republic of Artsakh.\n\nThe corruption of the government of the Republic of Armenia has been criticized for having been one of the primary reasons as to why Diaspora Armenians have been detached from the Republic of Armenia. However, the success of the 2018 Velvet Revolution, aiming to end the corruption, is being seen as a turning point in the history of Armenia, with hopes that these negative opinions of Armenia will change and produce a new wave of repatriates. Awareness for these changes was boosted by several famous Armenians in the Diaspora, such as Serj Tankian from the System of a Down band.\n\nOn 20 May 2018, the president of Armenia, Armen Sarkissian, addressed the younger generation of Armenians worldwide during the \"Armenia Tomorrow: Citizen Diplomacy at Work\" conference organized by the University of Southern California Institute of Armenian Studies, in the wake of the Velvet Revolution: \n\nArmenian communities and schools around the world often organize trips to Armenia, to visit or to offer volunteer work in exchange for accommodation subsidies, to preserve the sentiment of attachment to their homeland in the younger generations.\n\nThe Armenian General Benevolent Union (AGBU), the biggest and most influential Armenian organization in the world, helps to preserve and promote Armenian identity and heritage through educational, cultural and humanitarian programs, annually serving some 500,000 Armenians in over 30 countries. Other Armenian community organizations, such as the Armenian Youth Federation (AYF), also help to preserve the Armenian identity within the Diaspora.\n\nAnother international non-profit organization called \"Birthright Armenia\", founded in 2003 by Edele Hovnanian, provides services to help Diaspora Armenians develop personal ties and a renewed sense of Armenian identity. Birthright Armenia is a volunteer internship enhancement program that also offers travel fellowships to eligible participants to assist in the development of Armenia. To participate, applicants are required to be of Armenian descent and be within a certain age range.\n\nThe non-profit NGO \"Repat Armenia\", established in August 2012, provides services to assist Diaspora Armenians with their repatriation process. Their mission is to encourage the repatriation of professional and entrepreneurial individuals and families to Armenia to help in the development of the Armenian nation. They also influence government policies, and help to develop a pro-repatriation environment in Armenia.\n\nAll of these organizations have made efforts to reconnect the Diaspora Armenians with their homeland, in hopes that they will one day repatriate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38614952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38614952", "title": "Royal Navy Chaplaincy Service", "text": "Royal Navy Chaplaincy Service\n\nThe Royal Navy Chaplaincy Service provides chaplains to the Royal Navy. The chaplains are commissioned by the Sovereign but do not hold military rank other than that of \"Chaplain Royal Navy\". They are usually addressed as Padre, Reverend or more informally Bish. Chaplains are recruited from a number of Christian denominations.\n\nThe senior chaplain in the Royal Navy is currently Martyn Gough. An Anglican priest, he is also the Archdeacon for the Royal Navy.\n\nChaplains undergo training at Britannia Royal Naval College alongside other Royal Navy officer cadets. After completing the course they may opt to earn their \"Dolphins\" and serve in the Submarine Service or the green beret (upon completion of the All Arms Commando Course) and serve with the Royal Marines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7595269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7595269", "title": "Sarojini Sahoo", "text": "Sarojini Sahoo\n\nSarojini Sahoo () (born 1956) is an Orissa Sahitya Academy Award winner Indian feminist writer, a columnist in \"The New Indian Express\" and an associate editor of Chennai-based English magazine \"Indian AGE.\" She has been enlisted among \" 25 Exceptional Women of India\" by Kindle Magazine of Kolkata.\n\nBorn in the small town of Dhenkanal in Odisha (India), Sahoo earned her MA and PhD degrees in Odia Literature and a Bachelor of Law from Utkal University. She now teaches at a degree college in Belpahar, Jharsuguda, Odisha.\n\nShe is the second daughter of Ishwar Chandra Sahoo and the late Nalini Devi and is married to Jagadish Mohanty, a veteran writer of Odisha. She has a son and a daughter.\n\nHer novel \"Gambhiri Ghara \" proved to be a bestseller in Odia literature. Her novels have gained a reputation for their feminist outlook and sexual frankness and have been translated into English and published from India under the title \"The Dark Abode\" (2008) () and published from Bangladesh in Bengali as \"Mithya Gerosthali\" ( 2007 ) (). Prameela K.P has translated this novel into Malayalam and has been published as \"Irunda Koodaram\" by Chintha Publishers, Thiruvananthapuram. Martina Fuchs for German and Dinesh Kumar Mali for Hindi. Another novel \"Pakhibas\" has been translated into Bengali and published from Bangladesh under the same title in 2009. This novel has been translated into Hindi by Dinesh Kumar Mali and has been published with same title by Yash Prakashan, Delhi () in 2010.\n\nShe has published a collection of essays titled 'Sensible Sensuality\" (2010),\" where redefining femininity with Eastern perspective, the book explores why sexuality plays a major role in our understanding of Eastern feminism. The author thinks feminism should not act in opposition to men as individuals. To her, feminism is against oppressive and outdated social structures which forces both men and women into positions which are false and antagonistic. Thus, everyone has an important role to play in the feminist movement. It seems ironic that feminism has been characterized as anti-male, when in fact, it seeks to liberate men from the macho stereotypic roles men often have to endure such as the need to suppress feelings, act aggressively, and be deprived of contact with children. Sahoo thinks people should emphasize their femininity rather to impose the so-called stereotyped feministic attitude of the second wave.\"\"\n\nAs an Indian feminist, many of Sarojini Sahoo's writings deal candidly with female sexuality, the emotional lives of women, and the intricate fabric of human relationships, depicting extensively about the interior experiences of women and how their burgeoning sexuality is seen as a threat to traditional patriarchal societies; this book is rare of its kind and has covered the topics that never be discussed so far in any Indian discourse. Her debatable concept on feminism, her denial of Simone De Beauvoir's 'the other theory', make her a prominent feminist personality of South Asia and for which KINDLE Magazine of India has placed her among 25 exceptional mindset women of India.\n\nSarojini Sahoo is a key figure and trendsetter of feminism in contemporary Indian literature. For her, feminism is not a \"gender problem\" or confrontational attack on male hegemony and, as such, differs from the feminist views of Virginia Woolf or Judith Butler. Sahoo accepts feminism as an integral part of femaleness separate from the masculine world. Writing with a heightened awareness of women's bodies, she has developed an appropriate style that exploits openness, fragmentation, and nonlinearity. Sahoo, however contents that whilst the woman identity is certainly constitutionally different from that of man, men and women still share a basic human equality. Thus the harmful asymmetric sex /gender \"Othering\" arises accidentally and 'passively'from natural, unavoidable intersubjectivity.\n\nTreating female sexuality from puberty to menopause, her fiction always projects a feminine sensibility. Feminine feelings such as restrictions during adolescence or pregnancy, fear factors such as rape or being condemned by society, the concept of the \"bad girl,\" and so on, are treated thematically and in-depth throughout her novels and short stories.\n\nHer feminism is constantly linked to the sexual politics of a woman. She denies patriarchal limits of sexual expression for a woman and she identifies women's sexual liberation as the real motive behind the women's movement. In South Asian Outlook, an e-magazine published from Canada, Menka Walia writes: \"Sahoo typically evolves her stories around Indian women and sexuality, which is something not commonly written about, but is rather discouraged in a traditionalist society. As a feminist, she advocates women's rights and usually gives light to the injustices Eastern women face. In her interviews, she usually talks about the fact that women are second-class citizens in India, backing up these facts with examples of how love marriages are forbidden, the rejection of divorces, the unfairness of dowries, and the rejection of female politicians.\"\nFor her, orgasm is the body's natural call to feminist politics: if being a woman is this good, women must be worth something. Her novels like \"Upanibesh\", \"Pratibandi\" and \"Gambhiri Ghara \" cover a myriad of areas from sexuality to philosophy; from the politics of the home to politics of the world. According to American journalist Linda Lowen, Sarojini Sahoo has written extensively as an Indian feminist about the interior lives of women and how their burgeoning sexuality is seen as a threat to traditional patriarchal societies. Sarojini's novels and short stories treat women as sexual beings and probe culturally sensitive topics such as rape, abortion and menopause-from a female perspective.\n\nSexuality is something that can be related to many other aspects of culture, tightly-linked with an individual life, or into the evolution of a culture. Anyone's class or ethnic or geographic identity could be closely associated to his/her sexuality, or anyone's sense of art or literature. Sexuality is not just an entity in itself.\n\nStill, either in West or in East, there is a reluctant outlook towards sexuality. Society has always tried to hide it from any open forum. But neither society, nor the legislature, or even the judiciary stand by the side of sexuality to support it.\n\nIn the West, James Joyce's \"Ulysses\" or even Radclyffe Hall's \"Loneliness in the Well\" or Virginia Woolf's \"\" are some examples which have to suffer a lot for describing sexuality in literature. Sexuality in literature grew with feminism.\n\nSimone De Beauvoir, in her book \"The Second Sex\", first elaborately described the gender role and problem away from biological differences. In Odia literature, Sarojini is considered a key figure to discuss sexuality in her fiction with a sincere effort to express her feminist ideas.\n\nHer novel \"Upanibesh\" was the first attempt in Odia literature to focus on sexuality as a part of social revolt by any woman. Medha, the protagonist of her novel, was a bohemian . In her pre-marital stage, she was thinking that it was boring to live with a man lifelong. Perhaps she wanted a chain free life, where there would be only love, only sex and would not be any monotony. But she had to marry Bhaskar. Can Indian society imagine a lady with bohemianism?\n\nIn her novel \"Pratibandi\", Sarojini has also described the thematic development of sexuality in a woman. Priyanka, the protagonist of the novel has to encounter the loneliness in the exile of Saragpali, a remote village of India. This loneliness develops into a sexual urge and soon, Priyanka finds herself sexually attached with a former Member of Parliament. Though there is an age gap between them, his intelligence impresses her and she discovers a hidden archaeologist in him.\n\nIn her novel \"Gambhiri Ghara\", she describes an unusual relationship between two people: a Hindu housewife of India and a Muslim artist of Pakistan. It is a net-oriented novel. A woman meets a very sexually experienced man. One day he asks if she had any such experience. The woman, Kuki, scolds him and insults him by calling him a caterpillar. She said without love, lust is like hunger of a caterpillar. Gradually they become involved with love, lust, and spiritually. That man considers her as his daughter, lover, mother, and above all these, as a Goddess. They both madly love each other, through the internet and on the phone. They use obscene language and they kiss each other online. Kuki does not lead a happy conjugal life though she has a love marriage with Aniket. But the novel is not limited to only a love story.\n\nIt has a greater aspect. It deals with the relationship between State and individual. Safique is not a Muslim by temperament, but as a historian, thinks the Pakistan of today has separated itself from its roots and looks towards Arabian legends for his history. He protests that the syllabus of history for the school would start from seventh century A.D., not from the Mahenjodaro and Harappa. Safique was once arrested after the bomb blast of London for allegation of being associated with the terrorist, but is it a fact? Later Kuki came to know that Safiques is trapped by a military junta. The ex-lover of Safique's wife had revenged on Safique by arresting him with an allegation of terrorism.\n\nHere, the author deals with the question of terrorism. There is often discussion about terrorism caused by an individual or by a group. Society rarely discusses terrorism caused by a state.\n\nWhat is a state? Is it a group of people that resides within political and geographical boundaries? Are a state's identity, mood and wishes separate from its ruler? Is the wish of George W. Bush not considered as the wish of America? Has it reflected the mood and wish of the people of America? So, every time, the state's arranged anarchism or terrorism is merely a reflection of a terrorism caused by an individual. The great truth lies beneath Safique, as a terrorist, develops from the mind of a military man.\n\nThe author has successfully painted the difference of sensibility towards sexuality between male and female and has her own credibility for the frankness to deal with sensitive matters, be they matters of politics or matters of sexuality. She has gained a reputation and has her own place in the history of Odia fiction.\n\n\n\nShe has published ten anthologies of short stories.\n\nHer English anthologies of short stories are:\n\n\nHer some of short stories have been anthologised in Hindi:\n\n\nSome of her short stories have also been anthologized into Bengali:\n\n\nHer other Odia anthologies of short stories are:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1436726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1436726", "title": "Sudharmono", "text": "Sudharmono\n\nSoedharmono (12 March 1927 – 25 January 2006) was Indonesia's fifth vice president, and was in office during the period 1988 – 1993.\n\nSudharmono was born on 12 March 1927 in Gresik, East Java. He lost both his parents in the space of six months when he was only three. Sudharmono then went to live with his uncle, a scribe serving in the Regency of Jombang, East Java. As he grew up however, he would move around a lot, living with family from both his father's and his mother's side.\n\nSudharmono had just completed Junior High School when Indonesia proclaimed its independence from the Netherlands in 1945. After deciding to drop out from any further education, Sudharmono assisted in collecting weapons from the Japanese troops in preparation of the formation of an Indonesian Army. As a result of this, he became the Commander of the Ronggolawe Division, a position which he held throughout the course of the Indonesian War of Independence against the returning Dutch troops.\n\nAfter the Dutch retreated in 1949, Sudharmono completed his Secondary Education before going to Jakarta in 1952 to join the Military Law Academy. He completed the course in 1956 before serving in Medan, North Sumatra as an Army Attorney from 1957–1961. In 1962, Sudharmono received his degree in law after completing a course at Military Law University. After this, Sudharmono was appointed Chairman of the Central Government Personnel Orders Unit and provided administrative assistance to the Government.\n\nDuring the Indonesia-Malaysia confrontation, President Sukarno formed the Supreme Operations Command (KOTI), which was a war command immediately under Sukarno's control. In 1963, Sudharmono joined KOTI and was given the role of Joint Centre Operations Member for the Supreme Operations\n\nIt was from this position that Sudharmono began his rise. In October 1965, Major General Suharto was appointed Army Commander and joined KOTI as its Chief of Staff. Suharto formed a relationship with Sudharmono during these tense times in Indonesian history and it was evident that Sudharmono earned Suharto's trust. On 11 March 1966, when Suharto received the Emergency Powers from Sukarno, Sudharmono was the one who reproduced copies of the letter to be distributed to other Military Officers. The next day, on 12 March 1966, Sudharmono was also the one to write the decree banning PKI.\n\nWith Suharto's rise to power, KOTI was disbanded but Sudharmono's administrative skills and the trust that he had earned from Suharto ensured him a position in Suharto's administration. When Suharto became President in 1968, Sudharmono was named Cabinet Secretary as well as Chairman of the Economic Stability Council. In 1970, Sudharmono was moved from the position of Cabinet Secretary to the State Secretary, a position which allowed him to assist Suharto in the day-to-day running of the Government. Whilst State Secretary, Sudharmono also covered for other Ministers when they are unable to perform their duties; with short stints as Interim Information Minister and Interim Home Affairs Minister as well as helping to produce Suharto's accountability speech before the People Consultative Assembly (MPR) General Session.\n\nIn 1980, Sudharmono's position as State Secretary received a significant boost through a Presidential Decision which gave the State Secretary the power to supervise Government purchases exceeding 500 Million Rupiahs.\n\nBy the 1980s, Sudharmono had proved his loyalty to Suharto and had also shown that he does not have any ambitions. At the 1983 Golkar Congress, with Suharto's support, Sudharmono was elected as the Chairman of Golkar.\n\nAs Chairman, Sudharmono conducted many inspection tours of Golkar branches in the regions. Sudharmono also initiated a membership drive to get more voters to Golkar, an initiative that paid dividends in the 1987 Legislative Elections when Golkar's votes increased from 64% to 73%. The 1987 Legislative Elections was also a historical one for Golkar as it emerged victorious in the Province of Aceh for the first time.\n\nAs the MPR convened for its 1988 General Session, it was widely believed by many that Suharto (who was 67 years old) would be elected to his fifth and last term as President. With that in mind, the Vice Presidency became a crucial position. As 1988 began, Suharto began to show signs that he wanted Sudharmono to become his Vice President. Although never mentioning Sudharmono by name, Suharto said that he wanted his Vice President to enjoy the support of a large socio-political force.\n\nThe possibility of Sudharmono becoming Vice President displeased many in ABRI. Although Sudharmono had been an Army man himself and had ended his career with the rank of Lieutenant General, he had spent most of his career behind a desk instead of commanding troops. For this, he was looked down upon by ABRI. Suharto was aware of this and before ABRI could do anything, replaced Benny Moerdani with Try Sutrisno as ABRI Commander. This move crippled ABRI as Moerdani was more assertive when it comes to disagreeing with Suharto while Try, having been Suharto's aide-de-camp would be more passive.\n\nWhen the nomination was finally taken up through the official channels with Golkar, the Bureaucrats and Functional factions unanimously agreed to nominate Sudharmono as Vice President. The ABRI faction's nomination was delayed, with Moerdani continuing to procrastinate by claiming that he had not discussed the Vice Presidential nomination yet. It was said that he wanted Try to become the Vice President.\n\nAt the 1988 MPR General Session in March 1988, controversy continued to dog Sudharmono's nomination as Vice President. First, Brigadier General Ibrahim Saleh interrupted the Session and was beginning to launch a scathing attack to Sudharmono before he was taken down from the podium by ABRI MPR members. Then Sarwo Edhie Wibowo, a General who had helped Suharto get to power in the mid-60's resigned from both his MPR and People's Representative Council (DPR) seat \n\nin protest. Finally, United Development Party Chairman, Jaelani Naro nominated himself as Vice President, presumably with the private backing in ABRI, who in public supported Sudharmono's nomination.\n\nSuharto finally intervened. He cited a decision that the MPR made in 1973 that one of the criteria for a Vice President was that he should be able to work with the President. Suharto also conducted discussions with Naro and convinced him to withdraw the nomination. With Naro out of the way, Sudharmono was finally elected as Vice President.\n\nAs Vice President, Sudharmono was extremely active. He regularly visited the Provinces and set up Mailbox 5000, a place where the people can send their suggestions and complains and the government. Sudharmono, ever the specialist in giving administrative assistance, was also given the duty by Suharto to supervise government bureaucracy.\n\nDespite this however, ABRI continued to show their displeasure at Sudharmono's election as Vice President. At the Golkar Congress in October 1988, ABRI got their revenge against Sudharmono when they secured the election of Wahono as the Chairman of Golkar. ABRI members were also responsible for a smear campaign which involved accusing Sudharmono as a communist. Finally in March 1993, to prevent having to deal with a Vice President that they did not like, ABRI nominated Try Sutrisno as Vice President without waiting for Suharto to make his choice.\n\nIn his book, \"Suharto: A Political Biography\", Robert Elson theorized of the possibility of Sudharmono's Vice Presidency being the final step before the Indonesian Presidency itself and that Suharto only continued because of the reaction to Sudharmono's nomination There are two reasons for this:\n\nIn 1997, Sudharmono released his autobiography, \"Pengalaman Dalam Masa Pengabdian\" (Experiences During Time of Service). Concurrently, a book was also released called \"Kesan dan Kenangan dari Teman: 70 Tahun H. Sudharmono SH\" (Impressions and Memories from Colleagues: 70 Years of Sudharmono) which talked about Sudharmono from the point of view of those who he had worked with. Because the release of these books happened a year before the 1998 MPR General Session, there were rumors that Sudharmono was going to make a political comeback and aim for the Vice Presidency once again.\n\nIn May 1998, on the eve of Suharto's fall, Sudharmono, together with former vice presidents Umar Wirahadikusumah and Try Sutrisno visited Suharto at his residence to discuss possible options.\n\nSudharmono also continued to manage Suharto's Foundations (\"Yayasan\").\n\nSudharmono died on 25 January 2006. His body was buried in the TMP Kalibata, Jakarta.\n\nSudharmono married Erma Norma, with whom he had five children. His last son has three children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41471101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41471101", "title": "Tetiana Chornovol", "text": "Tetiana Chornovol\n\nTetiana Mykolayivna Chornovol (; born 4 June 1979 in Kiev, Ukrainian SSR, Soviet Union) is a Ukrainian journalist and civic activist, and one of the leaders in the Euromaidan protest campaign. She is known for investigative reports about corruption in Ukraine, as well as for her adventurous direct actions. In 2014, she was elected to the Verkhovna Rada.\n\nOn 25 December 2013, Chornovol was the victim of a much published and condemned severe beating.\n\nCurrently, she is a member of the parliamentary faction of the party \"People's Front\", also member of the Verkhovna Rada Committee on national security and defense. Deputy Chairman of the Interim Commission of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on investigation of the theft of public funds in 2011-2014, when providing services of collecting hazardous hexachlorobenzene waste in Kalush district, Ivano-Frankivsk region; Deputy Member of the Permanent Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization; member of the inter-parliamentary relations with China.\n\nTetiana Chornovol was born in Kiev, Ukrainian SSR, Soviet Union. Her parents come from Cherkasy Oblast in central Ukraine. Currently she lives in the Kiev suburb of Hora located in Boryspil Raion.\n\nIn 2001, she graduated from the Faculty of Journalism of the Kiev International Institute of Linguistics and Law.\n\nChornovol has been employed by or freelanced for many Ukrainian publications focusing on politics and corruption in Ukraine. She also reported from post-Soviet armed conflicts in which UNA-UNSO volunteers participated.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2004, she led the \"Theme of the week\" heading in the \"Peak\" magazine.\n\nIn 2004, she began specializing in investigative journalism, contributing to several Ukrainian online newspapers, including \"Ukrayinska Pravda\", \"Levyi Bereg\" and \"Obozrevatel\". Her focus topics are suspicious personal wealth of Ukrainian politicians, public servants, and businessmen, as well as their involvement in crime.\n\nIn 2008, a judgment was obtained from the High Court of Justice in London after \"Obozrevatel\" refused to retract false and libelous statements in articles by Chornovol alleging that Rinat Akhmetov was connected to criminal activity and violence. Chornovol had interviewed his former classmates and neighbors, and delved into his early years. Following court pressure, \"Obozrevatel\" issued an official apology stating, \"The editorial hereby admits that there was unchecked and false information about Rinat Akhmetov present in the … articles … We hereby give our apologies to Rinat Akhmetov for the problems resulting from the above-mentioned publications.\" Chornovol refused to issue an apology or acknowledge any wrongdoing. \"Obozrevatel\" said it was not invited or informed of the date of the court hearing, and claimed that the decisions of British judges are not legitimate in Ukraine.\n\nOther articles by Chornovol addressed the alleged organized crime background of then-President Viktor Yanukovych and reported on his lavish countryside property. According to a story in the \"New York Times\", in August 2012 Chornovol \"scaled the walls of Mr. Yanukovych's then residential compound, which includes 345 acres of forested hills along the Dnieper River and is called 'Mezhyhirya' after the park where it is situated, and spent nearly three hours wandering the property and taking photographs before being detained by security\". Chornovol was the first investigative journalist researching Mezhyhirya; she started work on the topic in 2006.\n\nImmediately before the attack on her, Chornovol made an on-site investigation of the suburban alleged property of Ukraine's Internal Affairs Minister (police chief) Vitaliy Zakharchenko and published a blog report with photos) as well as those allegedly belonging to the country's General Prosecutor Viktor Pshonka. The material was mentioned in her conversations with editors and colleagues.\n\nReacting to Chornovol's 25 December 2013 beating, \"Ukrayinska Pravda\" and Chornovol's husband announced that they \"suspected each and every person whom Tetiana Chornovol wrote about\" personally, including President Yanukovych, in \"ordering that attack\", until proven otherwise.\n\nChornovol comes from an ultra right political background: She joined the UNA-UNSO organization at age 17, and later began her media work there as a press secretary. However, she soon became disillusioned with extremist politics, but remained committed to social activism.\n\nChornovol openly admits committing various petty crimes in the course of her political acts and investigations, including trespassing and defacing property (such as by spray painting and egg pelting), and encourages other activists to follow her lead in nonviolent resistance way.\n\nChornovol participated in all major patriotic/anti-corruption actions in Ukraine since late 1990s, including Ukraine without Kuchma (2001), the Orange Revolution (2004), the 2011 protests against Russian language use expansion, and Euromaidan protests. During \"Ukraine without Kuchma\" (while still with the UNA-UNSO), she handcuffed herself to the busy rails in the Kiev Passenger Railway Station with a fellow female protester.\n\nIn 2011-2013, Chornovol participated in several risky protests against illegal land development, historical architecture destruction, and local government oppression in the city of Kiev, including the seizure of a tower crane over the Gostynyi Dvir and occupying a high-rise cornice of the Kiev City Council assembly hall (both by climbing). While she was climbing the crane, construction workers threw bricks at her but missed. She was removed from the council assembly hall cornice by firemen.\n\nIn the first week of Euromaidan, Chornovol, protected by bicycle helmet, was present near the van suspected of conducting covert surveillance of protest leaders, and immediately stormed it (by smashing the roof window with a cobblestone and jumping in) in order to prevent destruction of evidence. The automobile turned out to be a communications intelligence vehicle of the Security Service of Ukraine.\n\nOn 1 December 2013, Chornovol was widely reported smashing windows at Kiev City Hall in the course of protesters' attempts to seize the building. As she later explained to journalist colleagues, storming and occupying city hall was necessary for warming activists from freezing temperatures (the building was used for this purpose from then on).\n\nChornovol unsuccessfully ran in the 2012 parliamentary election in the suburban Lviv Oblast constituency Horodok, representing the oppositional Batkivshchyna party. She came second after non-partisan Yaroslav Dubnevych, who got 47.04% of the votes against Chornovol's 38.88%.\n\nIn the early morning of 25 December 2013 at 01:30 AM Chornovol was severely beaten by a group of men who dragged her from her car near Boryspil International Airport in Boryspil outside Kiev. The attack provoked massive outcry in Ukraine and around the globe.\n\nChornovol's car was rammed off of the road by a Porsche Cayenne, and two assailants dragged her from her car, beat her, and threw her in a roadside ditch. The attack took place hours after Chernovol published an article on a posh suburban residence which she said was being built for Minister of Internal Affairs Vitaliy Zakharchenko.\n\nChornovol was hospitalized with initial diagnosis of broken nose, concussion, and multiple bruises.\n\nEuromaidan activists called for a picketing of the Ministry of Internal Affairs at 8 a.m., which hundreds attended, calling for Zakharchenko's resignation.\n\nIn her 26 December bed-ridden interview, Chornovol stated that her investigations were the only possible reason for the attack on her, and dismissed suggestions that the attack was a result of either road rage or a false flag political provocation against authorities.\n\nThe Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) and U.S. embassy in Ukraine condemned the attack. Opposition parties accused the authorities of being behind the attacks, while a statement from Olena Bondarenko of the Party of Regions categorized the attack as spontaneous violence caused by Euromaidan, and blamed the opposition. According to the (then) governor of Kharkiv Oblast, Mykhailo Dobkin, the attack (that he compared to the Reichstag fire) had been organised by insiders.\n\nThe driver of the car that rammed Chornovol off the road was arrested on 25 December 2013, who upon police questioning identified the other two attackers, one of whom was arrested. In total five suspected attackers were detained by the Ukrainian police. According to police investigator Mykola Chynchyn, one of the suspects formerly belonged to a criminal organization led by Viktor Rybalko; and added \"The Klitschko brothers allegedly were closely involved in Rybalko's organization\". Chynchyn also stated that opposition lawmaker Mykola Knyazhytsky, Volodymyr Polochaninov and David Zhvania were connected to a suspect. Serhiy Kotenko (a former co-owner of TVi) is a brother of one of the suspects. Vitali Klitschko vehemently denied links to the suspects and stated that he would sue Chynchyn for slander, libel and defamation of character.\n\nChornovol's husband characterized the incident as attempted murder, saying \"she was beaten with the intent to kill\", and accused police investigators of downplaying the legal status of the crime. Chornovol believes the attack was ordered by president Viktor Yanukovych for her ongoing investigation into a new luxury mansion and palace he was building.\n\n Late on 25 December Chornovol was prepared for a series of reconstructive surgeries on her nose and right eye orbit, and was recovering from severe concussion. By 30 December, Chornovol was transferred out of intensive care but remained in hospital due to severe hypersomnia. On 7 January 2014, she was ready to be discharged from hospital, though still requiring outpatient treatment. However she refused to leave. After the assault, Canadian physician Dr. Richard Hareychuk provided a first hand account of how he raised money for Chornovol through the Ukrainian community in Toronto, arranged for an interview for her on CBC radio from Ukraine, and traveled to meet her on 17 January 2014.\n\nOn 21 February 2014, when Euromaidan protesters raided the Mezhyhirya presidential residence of Viktor Yanukovych, Euromaidian activists and investigators from the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project discovered \"black lists\" of journalists and activists involved in the oppositions, with an individual dossier on Chornovol, with photographs and the license plate of her car.\n\nOn 5 March 2014, Chornovol was appointed head of Ukrainian government's National Anti-Corruption Committee by the Yatsenyuk Government. She resigned on 18 August 2014. Chornovol said that \"there is no political will in Ukraine to carry out a hard-edged, large-scale war against corruption.\"\n\nChornovol became a founding member of the new party People's Front on 10 September 2014, 46 days before the 2014 Ukrainian parliamentary election. In this election she was elected into parliament as the runner up on the electoral list of People's Front, second to prime minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk.\n\nIn 2015, she initiated a criminal prosecution of People's Deputy Oleksandr Onyshchenko and the head of the State Fiscal Service Roman Nasirov on behalf of NABU for non-payment of the billions of taxes on gas and oil extraction of firms under the control of Onyshchenko, as well as the illegal restructuring of these debts to Nasirov.\n\nChornovol started her own investigation of crimes committed by Onyschenko from the visit to his office in Myronivka.\n\nDuring the Verkhovna Rada voting for the cancelling of deputies immunity of Onyshchenko, Chornovol symbolically came in a sweater with horses - Onyshchenko is a famous horse fan.\n\nOn December 22, 2016, Tetiana Chornovol's bill 5129 was adopted, which destroyed the scheme for obtaining extra profits by alternative energy companies created by the Klyuyev brothers during the Yanukovych government.\n\nAs a member of the National Security and Defense Committee, she was focused on budget financing of defense plants for the repair and modernization of armored vehicles, tanks and artillery.\n\nTogether with the chairman of the committee, Serhii Pashynskyi, in 2015, initiated a bill on the special confiscation of Yanukovych's assets in the state budget in the form of bonds worth $1.5 billion, arrested in the banks of Ukraine after the Maidan. For more than two years Chornovol has been struggling to confiscate these funds, which was only made in May 2017. Chornovol was the author of a number of bills (3025, 4057, 4811, 4890, 5557,) which established the legal mechanism for the confiscation of these funds, and also inherited the laws of many Western European countries regarding the confiscation of unjustified assets. However, no bill was supported by the Verkhovna Rada. Chornovol stated about the influence of such people from Yanukovych's environment as Andriy Portnov, Sergiy Kurchenko, and Oleksandr Onyschenko in order to prevent the confiscation of these assets.\n\nIn 2016, it even led to the suspension of factories for the repair and modernization of military equipment.\n\nIn appointing a new General Prosecutor, the group of Oleksandr Turchynov in the People's Front fraction, which member Chornovol is, initiated an agreement to support Yuriy Lutsenko's candidacy in exchange for a \"special confiscation\".\n\nProsecutor General's Office of Yuriy Lutsenko succeeded in May 2017 - $1.5 billion were confiscated into the State Budget of Ukraine as part of the investigation into the actions of the criminal organization of ex-president Yanukovych, with the efforts of prosecutor Kostyantyn Kulyk.\n\nHowever, the fact of the confiscation of Yanukovych's assets was harshly criticized by a number of public anti-corruption organizations in Ukraine. Chornovol said that this was due to the fact that lawyers, who at the time of Yanukovych legally accompanied the government's corruption schemes (in particular, the schemes of Kurchenko), after the Maidan began to work in public anticorruption organizations. This caused Chornovol to initiate known amendments to the Law No. 6172 \"On Prevention of Corruption\", which obliged public officials of public anticorruption organizations to submit e-declarations.\n\nIn 2017, Tetiana Chornovol strongly criticized the blockade of trade with companies located in Some districts of Donetsk and Luhansk regions. She tried to influence the public opinion, which, in her belief, falsely supported the so-called blockade on blood'. The MP spoke at rallies in Avdiivka, Kramatorsk, and Mariupol. According to Chornovol, this blockade was initiated by the FSS. It leveled Ukraine's tactical victory in the hybrid war. After all, factories and mines located in the occupied territory, but paid taxes to the budget of Ukraine, as well as supplied raw materials and scarce anthracite for enterprises in Ukraine, went under the control of an aggressor state.\n\nIn 2014 Foreign Policy magazine included Chornovol into top 100 thinkers - people who changed the world. She was awarded in the nomination \"Those who defy\" for her fight against the Yanukovych regime and corruption.\n\nIn 2015, she became the protagonist of the documentary \"Breaking Point: The War for Democracy in Ukraine\" directed by Mark Jonathan Harris and Oles Sanin. The film is about the way Ukrainians behaved during the 2014 Ukrainian revolution and Russian military aggression.\n\nChornovol is a widowed mother of two. Her husband, Mykola Berezovyi, a volunteer fighter in the Azov Battalion, was killed on 10 August 2014 during the fighting in eastern Ukraine. Chornovol and her husband met at a political rally. Their younger child was born in October 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1084894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1084894", "title": "The Mooninites", "text": "The Mooninites\n\nIgnignokt and Err (known collectively as The Mooninites) are fictional characters on the Adult Swim animated television series \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\" (also known by various alternative titles). Ignignokt and Err are both two dimensional alien villains from the Moon who frequently visit Earth and cause senseless destruction and chaos for the main protagonists. Ignignokt is the larger of the two who frequently appears as more calm and patient, whereas Err appears more temperamental and hyper. Both characters were created by series creators Dave Willis and Matt Maiellaro. Willis provides the voice of Ignignokt and Maiellaro provides the voice of Err.\n\nThe Mooninites were also the main protagonists in a television pilot for a potential \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\" spin-off entitled \"Spacecataz\", which was never picked up for a full series or aired on television, outside of clips during cold openings during the third season. The Mooninites also received national controversial attention on January 31, 2007, during the 2007 Boston bomb scare when LED displays resembling them were placed in various locations in Boston, Massachusetts, and were mistaken for bombs causing a panic. The duo has received a positive reception from reviewers at IGN, and have appeared in various forms of media relating to the series including the 2007 series film adaption \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Movie Film for Theaters\".\n\nBoth of The Mooninites live in the center of the Moon, which they frequently boast about. Besides Ignignokt and Err, other Mooninites are not commonly seen with the exception of Ignignokt's uncle Cliff and a giant mooninite monster named \"The Gorgotron\". Despite the apparent lack of mooninites on the moon a human female police officer patrols the surface of the Moon, as seen in \"Jumpy George\".\n\nThe Mooninites periodically visit earth in order to harass Master Shake, Meatwad, Frylock and Carl Brutananadilewski, arriving in a purple-and-blue spaceship. They particularly target Meatwad to take advantage of his childlike naivete, often encouraging Meatwad to participate in bad behavior such as shoplifting, burglary or smoking cigarettes and marijuana. Frylock, who sees right through their schemes, has a very condescending view of The Mooninites and often strives to keep them away from Meatwad, himself, and their property. Master Shake is more welcoming to them than Frylock, and only slightly less gullible than Meatwad when it comes to their lies. The Mooninites seem to welcome Master Shake to a degree by giving him shoplifted items as gifts, inviting him to help cash a stolen government aid check, and offering him marijuana, although they frequently try to trick Shake so they can steal from him as well. Carl is often the primary victim in The Mooninites' plans and schemes. They often end up stealing or destroying his possessions, causing damage to his home or car, and physically assaulting him in some cases. Most encounters The Mooninites have with the main protagonists often end with them rushing to their ship and shooting the bird to them from outer space as they return home, as a running gag.\n\nBoth of the Mooninites are equipped with a small laser gun that fires a small, slow-moving square bullet (despite Ignignokt's insistence on how fast it goes). Err and Ignignokt also possess the ability to lock their heads together to create the \"Quad Laser\", which results in them firing four laser guns at once, although this only results in them firing a much larger and much slower-moving projectile. In \"The Last One\", the Mooninites created an even larger weapon consisting of multiple copies of themselves formed into the shape of a giant gun which they call \"The Quad Glazer\" (although they argue over whether it's actually called \"The Quad Glacier\"). The bullet fired was even more massive and seemed to not move at all, and the sheer size of the gun caused Err to break his legs under the sheer weight of the weapon. They also have the ability to jump very high (but only on the Moon) and spin around in place flashing bright colors.\n\nLittle is known about their family lives, however, it's revealed that both Ignignokt and Err come from broken homes and neither had a father in their lives while growing up. Err went on to explain that his father was an alcoholic who abandoned him when he was three, and his mother later abandoned him at a summer camp, causing him to slip into a deep depression, and his frequent bad behavior is a desperate cry for attention. Ignignokt didn’t go into as much detail but did express some sorrow that he didn’t learn to \"steal or drink the right way\" from his father. In \"Remooned\" it is revealed Ignignokt has an uncle named Cliff, who suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder as a result of serving in the \"Lunar Wars\" and requires home care as a result.\n\nThe Mooninites were both created and designed by series creators Dave Willis and Matt Maiellaro and first appeared in the \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\" season one episode \"Mayhem of The Mooninites\", an episode in which they were centric. The episode first aired in the United States on October 14, 2001 on Cartoon Network’s late night programming block Adult Swim. Willis himself provides the voice of Ignignokt and Err is voiced by Maiellaro, whose voice is digitally altered for the role. When appearing in the series Err is never written into the script as all of his dialog and actions are completely improvised.\n\nThe duo were originally created as ghosts from the 1982 video game \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\", an Atari video game adaption to the science fiction film of the same name. The protagonists house was to be revealed to be built on top an ancient Indian burial ground filled with old copies of the game. This premise was based on the Atari video game burial, when a surplus of over a million copies of the game, along with several other Atari games, were buried underground in New Mexico in 1983. They are both recurring characters of the series, who both have appeared more than any other characters besides the main protagonists. They are usually the main focus in the episodes where they appear, and also make several brief cameos in certain episodes as well. A person from standards and practices at the network originally saw issue with Ignignokt and Err smoking cigarettes, Willis and Maiellaro argued that they are negative characters and that them smoking would depict smoking cigarettes as a negative action. Willis and Maiellaro claimed that they would remove the smoking cigarettes aspect of the characters from the script, however, never followed through on their claim.\n\nThe Mooninites appear as two dimensional pixelated figures with crude eyes, eyebrows, mouths, arms and legs, all composed from basic blue rectangles. Neither Ignignokt nor Err can open their mouths to speak but rather the size of the rectangle used for their mouths changes size to the rhythm of what they are saying. Ignignokt is colored with a solid shade of light green, and significantly larger than Err and has on somewhat more complex shape with several perfectly symmetrical grooves across his head. Err is light purple and square shaped with a second rectangle on his head, which fits perfectly in the groove on Ignignokt's head, which is used to form the Quad Laser and the Quad Glacier. Neither Ignignokt or Err wear clothing on a normal basis, but can be seen wearing them on occasion.\n\nErr’s facial expression is set as angry and is never seen to change, even during an emotional monologue about his childhood in \"Moonajuana\", whereas Ignignokt's facial expression is predominantly set as calm and relaxed, although unlike Err his facial expression occasionally changes to express anger. Ignignokt's facial expressions never skew from calm or angry, however, his plain rectangular mouth reverts to the shape of a smile briefly during the pilot episode of \"Spacecataz\", his mouth in the shape of a smile is never seen again outside of this one-time isolated appearance. In \"Deleted Scenes\" they are both hypnotized and their eyes become spinning circular spirals, a very rare alteration of their eyes. However, their facial expressions remain the same. Ignignokt has the ability to extend the size of his middle finger, and also the ability to increase the size of his entire hand immensely in order to be more prominent when giving the bird to Earth.\n\nBoth Ignignokt and Err served as the main protagonist for a \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\" spin-off entitled \"Spacecataz\". A pilot episode for the spin-off was produced, however, Adult Swim did not pick it up for a full series as executives couldn't see it going anywhere with all the characters dying towards the end of the pilot, despite the parent series having a long history of non-canon plot twists and storylines. \"Spacecataz\" was created by Willis and Maiellaro, and intended it to begin with a five episode first season. The plot revolves around both of The Mooninites and The Plutonians, another villainous duo featured in \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\", having an ongoing back and forth mean-spirited string of practical jokes between each other. This follows up the hostility between both groups depicted in \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\".\n\nThe pilot episode was never aired on television but was released on the \"Volume Four\" DVD set on December 6, 2005. The pilot was also broken down into several parts and used as cold openings throughout the third season of \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force;\" replacing short bits from Dr. Weird and Steve, which were used throughout the first two seasons.\n\nThe Mooninites were subject to National attention during the 2007 Boston bomb scare on January 31, 2007. During the incident LED displays depicting Ignignokt and Err were placed in eleven different cities: Boston, New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Atlanta, Seattle, Portland, Denver, Austin, San Francisco, and Philadelphia. In Boston, the authorities considered the LEDs suspicious, prompting the closure of major roads and waterways for investigation. Turner Broadcasting System later admitted placing the LEDs and apologized for the misunderstanding. In spite of the uproar, Berdovsky and Stevens mocked the media and critics in interviews while facing charges for \"placing a hoax device and disorderly conduct\". Subsequently, all criminal charges were dropped in exchange for Berdovsky and Stevens apologizing during their court date and accepting a plea bargain which consisted of community service at the Spaulding Rehabilitation Center. Turner Broadcasting has paid the Boston Police Department one million dollars to cover the investigation's cost and an additional million for good will. This action was designed to settle criminal and civil claims, while the general manager of Cartoon Network stepped down because of the incident. Of the 10 cities in which the Lite-Brite-like LED displays were placed, only Boston saw them as a matter of concern.\n\nWillis and Maiellaro responded to the incident by satirizing it in an episode entitled \"Boston\", the episode was meant to serve as the premiere of the fifth season in 2008 but was pulled by Turner Legal to avoid further controversy surrounding the incident. Subsequently, “Boston” has never been aired on television or formally released to the public in any format legally. Willis and Maiellaro also worked a stealthily hidden image of Err dressed as Osama bin Laden onto the artwork for the \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force Volume Five\" DVD set.\n\nEric Goldman and Dan Iverson of IGN have listed The Mooninites as number one on their list of top ten villains featured in the series. They stated that the extremely slow speed of the laser was “hysterical” and said it was only topped by their battlecry of “Mooninites, Unite!”. They also credited the duo for several lines they contributed to the series and claimed that Ignignokt and Err’s debut episode, “Mayhem of The Mooninites”, as one of the best thought the series.\n\nIgnignokt and Err both make appearances together in \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Movie Film for Theaters\", a 2007 feature film based on the series and the video game \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force Zombie Ninja Pro-Am\".' They also make a non-speaking visual appearance in the music video “I Like Your Booty But I’m Not Gay”.\"\n\nAside from their appearances in anything related to \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\" or \"Spacecataz\" The Mooninites have also made a few brief cameos in other media. A hidden image of Ignignokt can be seen on a bathroom stall in the Adult Swim online flash game \"Five Minutes to Kill (Yourself) Family Reunion\". An animated interpretation of T-Pain, who was voiced by himself, is seen wearing a necklace of Ignignokt in the \"Squidbillies\" season five episode \"Asbestos I Can\".\n\n"}
{"id": "763522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=763522", "title": "Tony DeBlois", "text": "Tony DeBlois\n\nAnthony Thomas \"Tony\" DeBlois is a blind American autistic savant and musician.\n\nTony DeBlois was born on January 22, 1974. Weighing less than two pounds, he was premature and had to be supplied with large amounts of oxygen. Large amounts of oxygen cause blindness, and the physicians during this time were unaware of this. Consequently, Tony became blind at just a few days old. He began to play piano at the age of two. At first, DeBlois studied in the Texas School for the Blind in Austin, Texas, then the Perkins School for the Blind in Boston, Massachusetts, but in 1989 was awarded a summer scholarship at Berklee College of Music in Boston, Massachusetts. Later, he was admitted as a full-time student and graduated magna cum laude in 1996.\nDeBlois specializes in jazz but can play just about any other type of music as well. A savant, he plays 20 musical instruments and has held concerts worldwide but also has his own band, Goodnuf. He can play about 8,000 pieces from memory.\n\nA TV movie was made on Tony DeBlois' life, entitled \"Journey of the Heart\" (1997) starring Cybill Shepherd as Janice DeBlois, Jeremy Lelliott / Chris Demetral (as young Tony), Blake Heron as Tony's younger brother Ray, and with an appearance of Tony DeBlois himself playing piano at the end of the movie. It was produced by Ronnie D. Clemmer and Richard P. Kughn.\n\nEl Paso Times, Sept. 20, 1980\n\n"}
{"id": "13643541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13643541", "title": "Ventura Blanco Encalada", "text": "Ventura Blanco Encalada\n\nVentura Blanco y Calvo de Encalada (c. 1782 – June 19, 1856) was a Chilean political figure. \n\nBlanco Encalada was born in Chuquisaca, Bolivia, the son of Manuel Lorenzo Blanco Cicerón and of Mercedes Calvo de Encalada y Recabarren (a Spanish father and a Chilean mother). He was trained for the Army in Spain, where he became a \"Guard de Corps\" and a lieutenant in the \"Regimiento de Dragones de Sangunto\". During the Peninsular War, he supported Joseph Bonaparte and eventually was forced to emigrate to France. He returned to Buenos Aires in 1816, and moved to Chile in 1820, where his younger brother Manuel was an important political figure who went on to become its first President.\n\nIn 1826, President Ramón Freire named him Minister of Government and Foreign Affairs and in 1827, Vice President Francisco Antonio Pinto named him Secretary of Treasury. After the defeat of the liberals in the Chilean Civil War of 1829, he retired from politics. Blanco Encalada spent his last years teaching at the Universidad de Chile, where he became Dean of the School of Humanities.\n\n"}
{"id": "17806802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17806802", "title": "William Henry Drew (textile worker)", "text": "William Henry Drew (textile worker)\n\nWilliam Henry Drew (1854 - 29 January 1933) was a British textile worker, early trade unionist and one of the founders of the Independent Labour Party.\n\nW. H. Drew was born in Exeter in 1854 and by the mid-1860s was working in agriculture. He began to be increasingly interested in politics at around the time that John Duke Coleridge QC was contesting Exeter for the Liberal Party.\n\nAround 1862 Drew migrated to Jarrow then on to Shipley where he began work as a wool comber at Pricking Mill. Next he started work as a workhouse man at Airedale Mills and then as a worsted weaver. By 1887 he was an active organiser for the West Riding Power Looms Weavers' Association and was on the executive committee for the next twenty years.\n\nAround this time Drew became a pioneer of independent labour politics and textile trade unionism. Along with Allen Gee and Ben Turner he was recruited by the \"Yorkshire Factory Times\" in 1889 as a correspondent. In December 1890, the workers at the Manningham Mills went on strike. Drew, Gee and Turner provided leadership for the strikers and the strike gave a new impetus to trade unionism and a reinvigorated hope for independent political action. The strike may have failed in its primary objectives but after it had finished, the Bradford Labour Union was established. This in turn led to the founding of the Independent Labour Party in 1893, with Drew chairing its founding conference, held in Bradford.\n\nThroughout this time Drew was suffering from bronchitis and constant ill health. In 1891 he became president of the Bradford Labour Union and stood successfully for the Bradford School Board and in 1892 he gave evidence to the Royal Commission on Labour. By 1893, Drew’s importance to the labour movement was very much recognised. At the inaugural conference of the Independent Labour Party in Bradford, Drew was selected to take the chair at the conference although, when it was taken to a vote, Keir Hardie was elected chairman. Drew was however, unanimously elected as vice chairman.\n\nBy the mid-1890s Drew had helped found the Bradford Central Labour Club of which he became the President only to resign in 1895 due to a change of rules which allowed non-union members to hold office. In 1893 the Bradford Unemployed Emergency Committee was established, Drew being a leading member. This organisation united the Independent Labour Party, the Bradford Trades Council and the Social Reform Union. He encouraged this organisation to conduct its own survey of unemployment which firmly discredited the statements put out by the Bradford Board of Guardians.\n\nHaving been on the trades council since 1887, he became secretary in 1898, following the departure of James Bartley. Ben Turner stated on his work, \"He put the Trades Council on to its wider basis. He paved the way.\"\n\nOn the education act of 1902 he showed fierce opposition and in 1907 left for Canada, returning to Bradford and dying on 29 January 1933.\n"}
{"id": "13198032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13198032", "title": "Yvonne Losos de Muñiz", "text": "Yvonne Losos de Muñiz\n\nYvonne Losos de Muñiz (born September 8, 1967 in Ibadan, Nigeria) is an Olympic athlete and international Grand Prix dressage rider that represents the Dominican Republic. She belongs to the Dominican olympic program CRESO. She won the individual bronze medal at the 2007 Pan American Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, riding her approved Hannoverian stallion Bernstein. With that medal she repeated her performance from the 2003 Pan American Games held in her home country, where she also obtained the individual bronze medal riding a different mount, a Dutch mare named Inatana.\n\nPrior to her Pan Am medals, Losos de Muñiz also won double individual gold and a team bronze medal at the 2002 Central American Games in El Salvador. In 2010 she added two individual silver medals to her collection at the Central American and Caribbean Games which took place in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico.\n\nIn 2010, she also qualified for the World Equestrian Games (WEG) with her Austrian Warmblood gelding Optimus Prime.\n\nIn addition to her twelve championship medals, she has also obtained numerous wins in Grand Prix and Small Tour at prestigious international events held in West Palm Beach, Florida, the Sunshine Tour (Spain), France and Germany. She has trained with riding master Jean Bemelmans, who also coached the Spanish Olympic team, as well as Harry Boldt from Germany, Jeff Ashton Moore from the USA, Carl Hester from England and Diederik Wigmans from the Netherlands. Her current trainer is Ton de Ridder from Germany.\n\nLosos de Muñiz competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, becoming the first Dominican equestrian athlete to participate at the Olympic Games.\n\nFollowing a winning streak at a number of international events in Wellington, Florida during the 2018 Adequan Global Dressage Festival, she qualified-together with her Belgian warmblood gelding Foco Loco W-for the single individual slot available to non-league nations for the FEI Dressage World Cup Final held in Paris, France. Her participation in the event marked the first time a rider from the Central America and the Caribbean competed in the global event.\n\nIn July 2018, she won two individual gold medals at the Central American and Caribbean Games held in Colombia, and also won a team a team silver as the anchor rider for the Dominican Republic national team. At the event she rode Fredensdals Zig Zag, a Danish warmblood owned by Kathy Priest.\n\nAlthough she had qualified for the 2018 World Equestrian Games with two horses, a shoulder injury prevented her from participating, forcing a two-month layoff from riding altogether.\n\nDuring the winter show season, she competes in the dressage shows held in Wellington, Florida.\n\nLosos de Muñiz was born in Nigeria to Canadian parents of German and Polish ascent, and was raised in Kenya. She began riding as a teenager in Germany before subsequently moving to Canada. She lives in the Dominican Republic since 1990 with her Dominican-born husband; she acquired the Dominican nationality by marriage. She speaks English, German, Spanish, and Swahili.\n"}
