{"id": "14938363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14938363", "title": "Bagus Setiadi", "text": "Bagus Setiadi\n\nBagus Setiadi (born 24 June 1966) is a retired male badminton player from Indonesia. Setiadi retired after one of his eyes was injured hit by the shuttlecock smashed by his sparring partner, Imay Hendra, during regular training in the 1990s.\n\nHe won the bronze medal at the 1991 IBF World Championships in men's doubles with Imay Hendra. They had won men's doubles together at the Finnish International in 1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "43810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43810", "title": "Charles Yerkes", "text": "Charles Yerkes\n\nCharles Tyson Yerkes ( ; June 25, 1837 – December 29, 1905) was an American financier. He played a major part in developing mass-transit systems in Chicago and London.\n\nYerkes was born into a Quaker family in the Northern Liberties, a district adjacent to Philadelphia, on June 25, 1837. His mother died of puerperal fever when he was five years old and shortly thereafter his father was expelled from the Society of Friends for marrying a non-Quaker. After finishing a two-year course at Philadelphia's Central High School, Yerkes began his business career at the age of 17 as a clerk in a local grain brokerage. In 1859, aged 22, he opened his own brokerage firm and joined the Philadelphia stock exchange.\n\nBy 1865 he had moved into banking and specialized in selling municipal, state, and government bonds. Relying on his bank president father's connections, his political contacts, and his own acumen, Yerkes gained a name for himself in the local financial and social world. However, while serving as a financial agent for the City of Philadelphia's treasurer, Joseph Marcer, Yerkes risked public money in a large-scale stock speculation. This speculation ended calamitously when the Great Chicago Fire sparked a financial panic. Left insolvent and unable to make payment to the City of Philadelphia, Yerkes was convicted of larceny and sentenced to thirty-three months in Eastern State Penitentiary. \n\nIn an attempt to remain out of prison, he attempted to blackmail two influential Pennsylvania politicians. The blackmail plan initially failed, however the damaging information on these politicians was eventually made public and political leaders including then-President Ulysses S. Grant feared that the revelations might harm their prospects in the upcoming elections. Yerkes was promised a pardon if he would deny the accusations he had made. He agreed to these terms and was released after serving seven months in prison.\n\nIn 1881 Yerkes traveled to Fargo in the Dakota Territory in order to obtain a divorce from his wife. Later that year, he remarried and moved to Chicago. There, he opened a stock and grain brokerage but soon became involved with planning the city's public transportation system. In 1886, Yerkes and his business partners used a complex financial deal to take over the North Chicago Street Railway and then proceeded to follow this with a string of further take-overs until he controlled a majority of Chicago's street railway systems on the north and west sides. Yerkes was not averse to using bribery and blackmail to obtain his ends. \n\nIn an effort to improve his public image, Yerkes decided in 1892 to bankroll the world's largest telescope after being lobbied by the astronomer George Ellery Hale and University of Chicago president William Rainey Harper. He had initially intended to finance only a telescope but eventually agreed to foot the bill for an entire observatory. He contributed nearly $300,000 to the University of Chicago to establish what would become known as the Yerkes Observatory, located in Williams Bay, Wisconsin.\n\nYerkes embarked upon a campaign for longer streetcar franchises in 1895, however Illinois governor John Peter Altgeld vetoed the franchise bills. Yerkes renewed the campaign in 1897, and, after a hard-fought battle, secured from the Illinois Legislature a bill granting city councils the right to approve extended franchises. The so-called franchise war then shifted to the Chicago City Council—an arena in which Yerkes ordinarily thrived. A partially reformed council under Mayor Carter Harrison, Jr., however, ultimately defeated Yerkes, with the swing votes coming from aldermen \"Hinky Dink\" Kenna and \"Bathhouse\" John Coughlin.\n\nIn 1899, Yerkes sold the majority of his Chicago transport stocks and moved to New York.\n\nWhile living in Chicago, Yerkes became an avid art collector, relying on Sarah Tyson Hallowell (1846–1924) to advise him on his purchases. After the Chicago World's Fair in 1893, she tried to interest him in the works of Auguste Rodin, which were part of the loan exhibitor of French art. Because the subject matter was controversial, Yerkes initially turned the works down, but he soon changed his mind and acquired two Rodin marbles, \"Orpheus\" and \"Cupid and Psyche\", for his Chicago mansion, the first two of Rodin's works known to have been sold to an American collector. Yerkes' art collection also included works by the French academic painters, such as \"Pygmalion and Galatea\" by Jean-Léon Gérôme and works by William-Adolphe Bouguereau and members of the Barbizon School. In 1904 he published a two volume catalog of his collection, which by that time was in New York:\n\nIn August 1900, Yerkes became involved in the development of the London underground railway system after riding along the route of one proposed line and surveying the city of London from the summit of Hampstead Heath. He established the Underground Electric Railways Company of London to take control of the District Railway and the partly built Baker Street and Waterloo Railway; Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway; and Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway. Yerkes employed complex financial arrangements similar to those that he had used in America to raise the funds necessary to construct the new lines and electrify the District railway. In one of his last great triumphs, Yerkes managed to thwart an attempt by J. P. Morgan to enter the London underground railway field.\n\nYerkes died in New York 1905, of kidney disease. The events of Yerkes' life served as a blueprint for the Theodore Dreiser novels, \"The Financier\", \"The Titan\" and \"The Stoic\", in which Yerkes was fictionalized as Frank Cowperwood.\n\nThe crater Yerkes on the Moon is named in his honor.\n\nYerkes and his wife Mary were painted by his favorite artist Jan van Beers (National Portrait Gallery, Washington DC). His wife, the daughter of Thomas Moore of Philadelphia, was also painted in 1892 by the Swiss-born American artist Adolfo Müller-Ury (1862–1947). In 1893 Müller-Ury painted from miniatures portraits of Yerkes' Quaker grandparents, Mr and Mrs Silas Yerkes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21444966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21444966", "title": "Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes", "text": "Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes\n\nThe Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes are a united, federally recognized tribe of Southern Arapaho and Southern Cheyenne people in western Oklahoma.\n\nThe Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes are headquartered in Concho, Oklahoma. Of 12,185 enrolled tribal members, 8,664 live within the state of Oklahoma. The tribal jurisdictional area includes Beckham, Blaine, Canadian, Custer, Dewey, Ellis, Kingfisher, Roger Mills, and Washita Counties.\n\nThe tribal government consists of the Tribal Council, Executive Branch, Legislative Branch, and Judicial Branch. The Tribal Council includes all tribal members over the age of 18. The Executive Branch is led by the Governor and Lieutenant Governor. The Legislative Branch is made up of legislators from the four Arapaho districts and four Cheyenne districts. The Judicial Branch includes a Supreme Court, including one Chief Justice and four Associate Justices; a Trial Court, composed of one Chief Judge and at least one Associate Judge; and any lower courts deemed necessary by the Legislature. In 2006 the tribes voted and ratified the Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes Constitution which replaced the 1975 constitution.\n\nIn 2009, Lt. Governor Teresa Dorsett was named acting Tribal Governor. She replaced and was a participant in the removal of Governor Darrell Flyingman, who was removed from office on 13 November 2009 by a cabal of individuals both tribal and non-tribal associated with Southwest Casino Corporation. Flyingman was removed pursuant to Section 8 of the Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribal Law and Order Code, in order that his interference with the schemes practiced on the tribes by Southwest Casino Corporation with the aide of chosen tribal members bent on removing Flyingman who had terminated Southwest Casino Corporation during his term as governor. Flyingman was elected first in 2007 on the platform of corruption reform and won. During his term as Governor 14 tribal members were prosecuted for embezzlement and other related charges. Flyingman was recalled twice through the efforts of the Legislature who included Janice Boswell who replaced Flyingman as governor. The Tribal Court overturned the recall both times. Shortly after replacing Gov.Flyingman, Boswell appointed her own tribal court and legislatures who are elected.\n\nFlyingman was accused of bad accounting of tribal funds, although he maintains that a National Indian Gaming Commission audit cleared him of wrongdoing.\n\nIn 2010, Janice Prairie Chief-Boswell was elected Tribal Governor, and Leslie Wandrie-Harjo, both ignorant lackys of Southwest Casino Corporation were elected Governor and Lt. Governor. In December 2010, Wandrie-Harjo accused Prairie Chief-Boswell of hiding financial records and disobeying tribal court orders to vacate her office. On 31 March 2011, Wandrie-Harjo and others broke into the locked tribal headquarters. A dispute has continued between Prairie Chief-Boswell and Wandie-Harjo as to who is the rightful leader of the tribe.\nThe First Bank of Trust Company froze $6.4 million of the tribe's assets. The tribe declared a state of emergency, and a hearing had been set over the funds.\n\nThe tribe operates three tribal smoke shops and four casinos: the Lucky Star Casino in Clinton, the Lucky Star Casino in Concho, the Lucky Star Casino in Watonga, and the Lucky Star Casino in Canton. They also issue their own tribal vehicle tags. Their economic impact is estimated at $32 million.\n\n\"The Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribal Tribune\" is the tribe's newspaper.<nowiki> \"CATV channel 47\" is the tribe's low power FCC licensed television station. CATV's call letters are K47MU-D. The Cheyenne-Arapaho Tribes of Oklahoma Culture and Heritage Program teaches </nowiki>hand games, powwow dancing and songs, horse care and riding, buffalo management, and Cheyenne and Arapaho language, and sponsored several running events.\n\nIn partnership with Southwestern Oklahoma State University, the tribe founded the Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribal College on August 25, 2006. Dr. Henrietta Mann, enrolled tribal member, was president in 2009. The campus was in Weatherford, Oklahoma and the school offered programs in Tribal Administration, American Indian Studies, and General Studies. The Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribal College Board of Regents voted to dissolve the Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribal College at the end of the 2015 spring semester.\n\n The Cheyennes and Arapahos are two distinct tribes with distinct histories. The Cheyenne (Tsitsistas/ The People) were once agrarian, or agricultural, people located near the Great Lakes in present-day Minnesota. Grinnell notes the Cheyenne language is a unique branch of the Algonquian language family and, The Nation itself, is descended from two related tribes, the Tsitsistas and the Suh' Tai. The latter is believed to have joined the Tsitsistas in the early 18th century (1: 1-2). The Tsitsistas and the Suh' Tai are characterized, and represented by two cultural heroes who received divine articles which shaped the time-honored belief systems of the Southern and Northern families of the Cheyenne Nation. The Suh' Tai, represented by a man named Erect Horns, were blessed with the care of a sacred Buffalo Hat, which is kept among the Northern family. The Tsitsistas, represented by a man named Sweet Medicine, were bestowed with the care of a bundle of sacred Arrows, kept among the Southern Family. Inspired by Erect Horn's vision, they adopted the horse culture in the 18th century and moved westward onto the plains to follow the buffalo. The prophet Sweet Medicine organized the structure of Cheyenne society, including the Council of Forty-four peace chiefs and the warrior societies led by prominent warriors.\n\nThe Arapaho, also Algonquian speaking, came from Saskatchewan, Montana, Wyoming, eastern Colorado, and western South Dakota in the 18th century. They adopted horse culture and became successful nomadic hunters. In 1800, the tribe began coalescing into northern and southern groups. Although the Arapaho had assisted the Cheyenne and Lakota in driving the Kiowa and Comanche south from the Northern Plains, in 1840 they made peace with both tribes. They became prosperous traders, until the expansion of American settlers onto their lands after the Civil War.\n\nThe Cheyenne and Arapaho formed an alliance in the 18th and 19th centuries. Together they were a formidable military force, successful hunters, and active traders with other tribes. At the height of their alliance, their combined hunting territories spanned from Montana to Texas.\n\nThe Arapaho signed the Fort Laramie Treaty with the U.S. in 1851. It recognized and guaranteed their rights to traditional lands in portions of Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, and Wyoming. The U.S. could not enforce the treaty, however, and European-American trespassers overran Indian lands. There were repeated conflicts between settlers and members of the tribes.\n\nThe U.S. government brought the tribes to council again in 1867, to achieve peace under the Medicine Lodge Treaty. It promised the Arapaho a reservation in Kansas, but they disliked the location. They accepted a reservation with the Cheyenne in Indian Territory, so both tribes were forced to remove south near Fort Reno in present-day Oklahoma.\n\nThe Dawes Act broke up the Cheyenne-Arapaho land base. All land not allotted to individual Indians was opened to settlement in the Land Run of 1892. The Curtis Act of 1898 dismantled the tribal governments in an attempt to have the tribal members assimilate to United States conventions and culture.\n\nAfter the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act passed in 1936, the Cheyenne and Arapaho organized a single tribal government in 1937. The Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 further enhanced tribal development.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7243864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7243864", "title": "Colin McAllister and Justin Ryan", "text": "Colin McAllister and Justin Ryan\n\nColin Lewis McAllister and Justin Patrick Ryan are Scottish interior decorators and television presenters, often billed as Colin and Justin.\n\nAs well as being co-hosts, McAllister and Ryan have also been a couple since 1986 and have been credited for introducing laminate flooring to British households. On 15 February 2008, they had a private civil partnership ceremony in London followed by a Caribbean honeymoon.\n\nAlthough their main residence is in Glasgow, they divide their time between there and London. They have filmed 4 13-episode series of \"Colin and Justin's Home Heist\" for HGTV, which is broadcast in approximately 25 countries.\n\n\"Million Pound Property Experiment\" was a BBC Television series which originally aired on BBC Two in the United Kingdom in 2003. In this, McAllister and Ryan renovated and re-sold properties for a profit as they gambled with a £100,000 loan from the BBC, with the ultimate goal being a sale of a property for £1million. Taking more than two years they bought, renovated and sold seven properties across the UK with the help of project manager Nigel Leck. Their final property sold for £1.25 million and after paying back all loans they made a profit of nearly £300,000 which was donated to BBC's Children in Need Appeal.\n\nMcAllister and Ryan counted down the best ways to increase the values of viewers homes. The format also included Twenty Builders' Botch Ups and Twenty Design Crimes. The series was made for the UK's Five channel.\n\n\"Trading Up\" (and overseas spin-off show \"Trading Up in the Sun\") aired on BBC One in which McAllister and Ryan counselled people on how to successfully sell and buy property. The former concentrated on British homes while the latter saw the presenters travel around Spain and France in search of homes for British buyers. Seven series were filmed with 210 episodes in total.\n\nThis live format multi camera studio show, a production for BBC1, was hosted by Lowri Turner and co-presented by various experts such as chef James Martin and Colin and Justin. Spanning some seven series the decorators created live 'one hour' transformations interacting throughout with viewers. The emphasis was about creating 'style on a shoestring' and the show had a spin-off series called \"Housecall in the Country\" on which Colin and Justin also worked.\n\nHow Not to Decorate aired on the UK's Channel 5 and followed the format of the popular \"What Not to Wear\" series, but in this case McAllister and Ryan were recruited to transform homes with dramatically ugly interior decoration schemes into something more stylish. Four seasons of 13 were filmed as well as a mini series featuring celebrity homes.\n\nA British TV first, Colin and Justin, along with model Caprice, attempted to raise a £150,000 anamatronic 'baby'. The show charted the three celebrities as they experienced the highs and lows of parenthood. Caprice infamously dropped her 'baby' while Colin and Justin later said in interviews that it made them realise they would indeed make good parents.\n\nIn 2006, McAllister and Ryan hosted the reality series \"The Farm\" on Five.\n\nIn McAllister and Ryan's next programme, \"Wedding Belles\", which aired on Five in 2007, they became wedding decorators to prospective brides. Four one hour episodes now showing across the globe.\n\nMcAllister and Ryan presented STV's 2008/2009 \"Hogmanay Stories\", a mix of traditional Hogmanay celebrations, with music from Michelle McManus, John Carmichael and some surprise guests. There were stories from Elaine C. Smith, Cameron Stout, Aggie MacKenzie, Sanjeev Kohli, Limmy and others – and messages to loved ones who find themselves away from home at that momentous time of the year.\n\nMcAllister and Ryan attempted to visually transform a council estate in Glasgow (Arden, on the south side of the city) in their 2007 show on Five. The premise was that everyone should be entitled to a good standard of living, no matter where they are on the social strata. An anniversary TV 'one year on' revisit is currently being planned.\n\nIn September 2008, they organised and ran a charity auction at the Oran Mor arts centre in Glasgow, to raise money for the event. It was attended by national and local celebrities, including Anna Ryder Richardson and Atomic Kitten's Liz McClarnon.\n\nColin and Justin's show Home Heist was filmed in Canada and is similar to \"How Not to Decorate\", for North American audiences. Colin and Justin moved to Toronto in 2008 in preparation for the show, which premiered on the HGTV network in October 2009. The show has already been bought by multiple international broadcasters. The Canadian program's team also includes Cheryl Torrenueva, a designer and presenter associated with other TV shows such as Restaurant Impossible and Game of Homes on The W Network.\n\nColin and Justin visit different shopping centres/malls, create a set of a house in the middle of it, then proceed to decorate the set with items from the stores in the mall. The series was filmed before a live audience, and first shown in the UK on UKTV Style.\n\nThe Scots decorators hosted this drive time BBC Radio Scotland series which aired on Friday at 18:00 – 19:00. In total there were three successful series which concluded towards the end of 2009. Renowned for its pacy, irreverent formula the series was a mix of gossip, social comment and music.\n\nBoth Colin and Justin were contestants on \"I'm a Celebrity…Get Me out of Here!\" (UK series 9). Colin was voted out by the public on Tuesday, 24 November 2009 and Justin was voted out on Thursday, 3 December 2009 after making it to the final evening of the show, eventually finishing fourth.\n\n\nColin and Justin play The Ugly Sisters in this ITV1 programme panto sketch. The show was broadcast on 26 December 2009 and also featured Piers Morgan, Amanda Holden and Robbie Williams.\n\n\nThe decorators worked with UK department store Matalan and launched several large homewares collections for the 190 store chain. A further collection of festive decorations augmented their range with the company.\n\n\nThe decorators collaborated with Canadian department store Zellers, and their first collection of named brand bedding was available between January 2010 and July 2011.\n\n\nThe decorators have guested twice on this ITV1 show, both times dressed as elves, as part of the live action fun.\n\n\nColin and Justin have guested many times on this magazine show format on ITV during 2010.\n\n\nThe decorators appeared frequently on this tea time chat show.\n\n\nThe UK decorators have guested many throughout 2010 on \"CityLine\", a Canadian magazine format lifestyle show.\n\n\nColin and Justin regularly guest star on this early morning TV show, which is similar to GMTV in The UK.\n\n\nFrom January 2011, when the successful TV makeover series was re-formatted without its previous host Terri Dwyer, Colin and Justin, amongst others, joined as regular new presenters/decorators and fronted 24 episodes.\n\n\nIn conjunction with The Canadian Cancer Society, the decorators created a fund-raising event to benefit those living with, or affected by, cancer. Essentially a grand gala evening and a guided tour around 20 of the 52 homes made over during their series, all profits were donated to the CCS.\n\n\nThe British decorators regularly headline these visiting home fairs across Canada and appear, in design workshops, to dispense style guidance to the tens of thousands of paying guests who visit each season.\n\n\nIn February 2010 Colin and Justin appeared in TV Series Celebrity Coach Trip.\n\nAfter a Co-hosting with Ewan on Real Radio Breakfast show, for one day, Colin & Justin's were offered their own brand new radio show. The series went out for a 13-week run on Sundays during the summer of 2011.\n\nBoth were participants in the sixth series of Celebrity MasterChef.\n\nBoth appeared as guests.\n\nThe designers launched a homewares collection with a large range of decorative designer items such as crockery, linens, artwork, lightings and chairs. The range is available in a cross selection or retailers such as Winners and Homesense in Canada and stores like TJ Maxx and Home Goods in the USA. Now in its third year, the collection includes around 50 different items from toss pillows to lawn chairs and from towels to bathroom accessories.\n\nDebuting in 2014 on Cottage Life and OutTV, \"Colin and Justin's Cabin Pressure\" is a series in which the duo purchase and renovate a log cabin in Haliburton County, a popular cottage country region in the Canadian province of Ontario. Due to the success of the series, a second season was quickly green lit and it launched in March 2015 and currently airs on Cottage Life at 9pm each Sunday. Season 3 of Cabin Pressure aired in Spring 2016\n\nThe British designers are now resident guest experts on the daytime talk show \"CityLine\". Hosted by Tracy Moore, the show airs across Canada and McAllister and Ryan focus on cash conscious ways to create a stylish home. Shopping trends are covered as up cycling and ways in which to create designer looks on a budget. Colin and Justin also host out and about 'roving reporter' design related segments for the show.\n\nColin and Justin are annual special red carpet correspondents (and in fact have been since 2011) during the yearly Toronto International Film Festival. In their time with the network they have interviewed Madonna, George Clooney, Ryan Gosling, Hugh Jackman, Jennifer Lawrence, Bradley Cooper, Emma Thompson, Colin Farrell, Elton John and perhaps 200 other major Hollywood names.\n\n\"Game of Homes\": Colin are Justin were guest celebrity judges on the exterior design episode of this large format show. The programme gave them the opportunity to work once again with Cheryl Torrenueva (resident judge throughout the series) with whom they worked on HGTV's 'Colin and Justin's Home Heist'. Other guest judges included The Property Brothers and Jillian Harris. When Season 2 Game of Homes was ordered by W Network, Colin and Justin were this time cast as permanent judges and appear on every episode. Season 2 aired in Spring 2016.\n\nColin and Justin guest starred as judges on an episode on the Eleventh season of the Australian renovation/property series.\n\nIn summer 2015 Colin and Justin co hosted one episode of the prime time lifestyle show, standing in for regular co host Dr Chris who was off duty whilst presenting I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here, Australia. They also guested on a second episode of The Living Room and redecorated two Canadian homes as part of their deal.\n\nColin and Justin were the main judges in the second season of Australian TV renovation series, Reno Rumble, in 2016.\n\n\nColin and Justin present a brand new documentary series in search of the quintessential 'Great Canadian Cottage.' Following three seasons of their rustic reno' show, Cabin Pressure, the duo head out of the city once again to explore lake homes, forest retreats and other escapes sharing stories and experiences with others who have chosen to escape the city and make the Canadian countryside their vacation destination.\n\n\"The Million Pound Property Experiment\" – published by BBC World Wide in 2004, which went on to win the People's Choice Lifestyle Book of the Year with WH Smith.\n\n\"How Not To Decorate\" – accompanied the successful TV show of the same name. Published by Time Warner, 2006.\n\n\"Colin and Justin's Home Heist Style Guide – How To Create The Perfect Home\" – this book accompanies the series 'Colin and Justins Home Heist', released 1 October 2008. Published by Penguin, Canadian Publications.\n\nMagazine Columns – drawing on their journalistic background, the decorators for ten years wrote a weekly column in \"The Sunday Mail\" (Scotland)\n\nThe pair also writes a weekly column in the Friday and Sunday editions of the \"Toronto Sun\", offering up their suggestions for sprucing up homes. The column syndicates to 24 Hours Vancouver, 24 Hours Toronto and The London Free Press. The column is also available online.\nColin and Justin contribute a weekly column to The Huffington Post and to Cottage Life Magazine as a companion to their current Cottage Life TV show.\n\nProduct – the duo have brought their global product interior design range to Canada and it can be found in stores such as Homesense, Winners and Marshalls. It can be found in the USA in T J Maxx and in the UK in T K Maxx.\n\n"}
{"id": "29685041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29685041", "title": "David Canabarro", "text": "David Canabarro\n\nDavid José Martins, known as David Canabarro, (born on August 22 1796 in Taquari) was a Brazilian general. He died in 1867 in Santana do Livramento.\n\nCanabarro had ancestry from the Azores region of Portugal. He was born to José Martins Coelho of Porto Alegre and Dona Mariana de Jesus Ignacia of Santa Catarina Island. \n\nThe surname \"Canabarro\" came from his grandfather, Manuel Teodósio Ferreira, who received the nickname Marquis Alegrete and added this title to his name.\n\nCanabarro began his military career in the First campaign cisplatin in 1811–1812. David, at the age of fifteen, asked his father's permission to take his brother's place.\n\nCanabarro fought for the forces of noble Don Diogo de Sousa, conde de Rio Pardo. After the campaign he was promoted to Ensign and returned home, though later he would fight in the War Artigas from 1816 to 1820.\n\nYears later he was a lieutenant in the forces of Bento Gonçalves in the Cisplatine War in 1825–1828, which culminated in a peace treaty in August 1828 and the independence of Uruguay. There he played an important role in the Battle of Rincon de las Gallinas, saving the Brazilian army on September 24, 1825. This earned him the title of Army lieutenant. He took part in the 21st Light Cavalry Brigade commanded by Bento Gonçalves and the undecided Battle of the Pass of Rosario.\n\nWhen the war ended, he continued his military career, this time associated with his uncle Antonio Ferreira Canabarro in the resort border of Santana of Deliverance. By 1836, he adopted the name David Canabarro at the insistence of his uncle. As suggested by historian Ivo santanese Caggiano: \"he must have had some connection with the axes and ferreiras of Sabrosa. Consequently, the descendants of the noble Canavarros of Portugal must be the Canabarro of Brazil.\"\n\nCanabarro was initially neutral in the Ragamuffin War. He later enlisted as a lieutenant, but quickly rose through the ranks, and took command in June 1843, when Bento Gonçalves (to avoid a split among Republicans) quit the command and went on to serve under the orders of Canabarro.\n\nHis only defeat in war was in the Battle of Porongos, which relaxed the peace negotiations he undertook with the Baron de Caxias. He was surprised by the troops of Mouringue and was defeated, notwithstanding his possession of the Black Lancers.\n\nWhile negotiating peace with the empire, Canabarro offered his services to Juan Manuel de Rosas, ruler of Argentina, who wanted to expand the borders of his country. In exchange for the cooperation of Ragamuffin, he would get help from Argentina to continue the battle against the empire. Canabarro responded by letter, where he stated his loyalty to the country.\n\nAs head of the rebels he accepted the amnesty offered by the government in December 18, 1844 by the Duque de Caxias, called \"the Peacemaker\". In the negotiations on February 25, 1845, it was agreed that Republicans would choose the next president of the province. It was also agreed that the imperial government would be held to account for the republican government's debt; that rebel military officers who wished to join the imperial army would remain in their former posts, and that the prisoners would be pardoned.\n\nCanabarro fought in the War against Rosas and in the War against Aguirre, receiving the title of honorary general with which he fought the invaders in the Paraguayan War.\n\nDavid Canabarro has been portrayed as a character in film and television, played by Milton Mattos in the movie \"Netto Loses His Soul\" (2001), and by Oscar Simch in the miniseries \"The House of Seven Women\" (2003).\n\n"}
{"id": "7893686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7893686", "title": "Dennis Bonvie", "text": "Dennis Bonvie\n\nDennis Kevin Bonvie (born July 23, 1973) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player, most notable for being the most penalized player in professional hockey history with 4,804 career professional career penalty minutes (most of it being in the American Hockey League). He is currently a pro scout for the NHL Boston Bruins.\n\nWhile Bonvie, a 5'11\", 205-pound right winger, had appeared in 92 National Hockey League games with six different NHL teams since he turned pro in 1993 with the Edmonton Oilers, he spent the vast majority of his career in the American Hockey League in which he played with eight different clubs. Bonvie was known for a physical style of play and his primary role as the enforcer for his various teams. In his 92 NHL games, he recorded 311 PIMs.\n\nOn October 12, 1993, as a rookie with the Cape Breton Oilers Bonvie was involved in his first professional fight in the AHL against Jamie Huscroft of the Providence Bruins. On September 17, 1995 during his first pre-season game with the Edmonton Oilers Bonvie dropped the gloves with Bob Probert of the Chicago Blackhawks. On October 8, 1995, Bonvie was credited with his first NHL fight taking on Stu Grimson of the Detroit Red Wings. As a member of the Hamilton Bulldogs in 1997, Bonvie established a then-single season AHL record for penalty minutes (PIM) with 522, a mark which stood for eight seasons before being eclipsed in 2004–05 by Brian McGrattan of the Binghamton Senators with 551. Bonvie's eventual career AHL penalty minute total, 4,493 minutes (in just 871 regular season games) was a remarkable 1,553 more than Rob Murray's second overall career AHL record high total 2,940 PIM in 1,018 games over fifteen seasons. During the 2008 season, Bonvie surpassed Kevin Evans for the most career penalty minutes in professional hockey history.\n\nBonvie's first and only NHL goal was scored when he was a member of the Boston Bruins. Bonvie had captured the puck at the blue line and let a hard slapshot go right at the top of the faceoff circle. He beat Chris \"Ozzy\" Osgood, who was playing for the New York Islanders at the time, fivehole. After Dennis had scored, he went by Osgood and said jokingly, \"I think it's time you better retire.\"\n\nThe Mohegan Sun Arena at Casey Plaza, home of the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins, is often called the \"house that Bonvie built.\"\n\nOn December 26, 2007 in front of a sold out home crowd, Bonvie was involved in a toe-to-toe style fight with Jon Mirasty of the Syracuse Crunch. The fight lasted 1 minute and 30 seconds with both players trading multiple punches.\n\nOn April 12, 2008, Bonvie would dress in his last regular season game. Wilkes-Barre/Scranton captain Nathan Smith honored Bonvie by giving him the captain's \"C\" for his final game. Bonvie was involved in a fight that night taking on Jay Rosehill of the Norfolk Admirals. After the fight was over, Rosehill rose Bonvie's hand as a sign of respect and told him \"it was an honor to fight him\".\n\nOn April 20, 2008, in an AHL playoff game against the Hershey Bears, Bonvie was involved in his final career scrap against agitator Louis Robitaille. This specific fight had been much anticipated as Bonvie had asked Robitaille to fight multiple times throughout the season.\n\nIn the 2007–08 season, he played as a member of the Eastern Conference champion Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins before eventually losing the 2008 Calder Cup in six games to the Chicago Wolves. Bonvie retired after the season. Bonvie currently operates the \"Dennis Bonvie Hockey Camp\" in Wilkes-Barre, PA.\n\nBonvie recently opened three restaurants in Northeastern Pennsylvania including Bonvie's Old Forge Pizza Express, Bonvie's Beefy King, and Bonvie's Blue Chip Gourmet.\n"}
{"id": "54957985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54957985", "title": "Derek Jenkins (painter)", "text": "Derek Jenkins (painter)\n\nDerek Jenkins is a former teacher and retired artist known primarily for his paintings of Cornish landscapes and paintings of striped pebbles found on beaches throughout the county. His best known work is 'South from Cape Cornwall' which was exhibited in the Tate.\n\nHe was born in Cardiff, Wales . He went on to study art at the West of England College of Art in Bristol, United Kingdom. He completed his teaching diploma at the London University. In 1972 he moved from London to Truro, Cornwall where he was the Head of the Art Department at Falmouth School of Art for 17 years.\n\nAfter his retirement from teaching in 1989, he pursued his own artistic works, which have been exhibited in the Tate St Ives and locally, in Falmouth and St Ives art galleries. He was a member of the Newlyn Society of Artists during their centenary year and was a member of the Penwith Society of Artists. He retired from painting in 2005, aged 68.\n"}
{"id": "58782267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58782267", "title": "Devi Khadka", "text": "Devi Khadka\n\nDevi Khadka is a Nepalese Communist politician from Dolakha, currently serving in the House of Representatives.\n\nDevi Khadka, a local of Dolakha, was a participant in the Nepalese Civil War, specifically joining the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) faction against the reigning monarchical government. Citing the oppression of the poor, the expropriation of her father's possessions, murder of her brother, Rit Bhadkur Khadka, by security forces, she participated in the 1990 People's Movement protests to liberalize the absolute monarchy. She later joined the Maoists in 1996 with the outbreak of the civil war initiated to introduce a People's Republic.\n\nDuring the civil war, Khadka served as founding chair of the Maoist-affiliated All Nepal Women's Association (Revolutionary). In 1997, she was arrested, disappeared for a month, and repeatedly raped in police custody for four months. In 1999, she served as a military commander in Dolakha, Sindhupalchok, Okhaldhunga, and Solu Khumbu, eventually becoming district secretary of Dolakha in 2002.\n\nKhadka has served as a Maoist MP for Dolakha since the conclusion of the civil war and establishment of the Nepalese Constituent Assembly in 2008. From 2011 to 2013, she served as a Minister of State for the Ministry of Physical Planning and Works.\n\nKhadka has been involved in several controversies. Shanti Pakhrin, a fellow Dolakha MP for the United Marxist-Leninist party, has spoken out on the killing of her husband, Buddhi Man Pakhrin, by Maoist cadres in 2002 while Khadka was district secretary. In 2011, she and her husband and fellow Maoist politician, Raj Kumar Shrestha, were accused of overseeing Red sandalwood smuggling into Tibet through Nepal. In 2017, political violence days before local elections resulted in the murder of Kul Bahadur Tamang, son of CPN-UML candidate Gore Tamang, by Maoist-Centre cadres. Khadka claimed the Maoists were acting in self-defense. Following a complaint filed by Tamang to the police naming Khadka, among others, suspected cadres were arrested and a manhunt was launched.\n\nSince late 2017, Khadka has been leading Maoist efforts in establishing a \"janaparishad\" shadow government to strengthen the party's relations at the grassroots level in Dolakha.\n"}
{"id": "2923297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2923297", "title": "Diane Allen", "text": "Diane Allen\n\nDiane B. Allen (born March 8, 1948 in Newark, New Jersey) is an American Republican Party politician, who served in the New Jersey State Senate from 1998 to 2018, representing the 7th Legislative District. She served as the Deputy Republican Conference Leader from 2002 to 2003 and as the Majority Whip from 1998 to 2001. She was the Deputy Minority Leader in the N.J. Senate. She was a member of the lower house of the New Jersey Legislature, the New Jersey General Assembly, from 1996 to 1998. Allen is the Chair of the National Foundation for Women Legislators.\n\nAllen grew up in Moorestown Township, New Jersey and first ran for elective office in the 1970s when she ran for the Board of Education of the Moorestown Township Public Schools.\n\nIn the 1995 general election, Allen and Republican running mate Carmine DeSopo were elected, defeating Democratic incumbent Steven M. Petrillo and his running mate, newcomer Joseph P. Dugan. The $1.1 million spent in the 1995 Assembly race made it the first in New Jersey to cross the $1 million spending mark, as reported in the results of a study conducted by the Center for the Analysis of Public Issues of Princeton, New Jersey that analyzed campaign finance reports from candidates for all 80 Assembly seats.\n\nIncumbent Democrat Jack Casey did not run for re-election in 1997, and in the Senate race that year Allen defeated the Democratic nominee Robert P. Broderick\n\nAllen was elected Chair of the National Foundation for Women Legislators in November 2013. The organization represents the near 1800 female state legislators in America, and supports elected women from all levels of governance.\n\nSenator Allen has served as a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 1996, 2000, as well as in 2004 and 2012. She has served on the Martin Luther King Commission since 1998 and the New Jersey Human Relations Council from 2003 to 2007. She has been the Senate's Deputy Minority Leader since 2006, and serves in the Senate on the Education Committee, the Health, Human Services and Senior Citizens Committee, as well as the Veterans and military affairs.\n\nShe was an unsuccessful candidate for the Republican nomination for the United States Senate in 2002. Six people ran, with Allen a close second to millionaire businessman Doug Forrester who won the party's nomination. Forrester won the primary with 44.6% of the vote, Allen came in second with 36.9%, ahead of third-place finisher John J. Matheussen who garnered 18.6% of the vote.\n\nAllen was a television anchor and reporter for KYW-TV from 1976 to 1978, and again from 1982 to 1988 and at WCAU-TV from 1989 to 1994, both in Philadelphia. She also worked at WLS-TV in Chicago from 1979 to 1982.\n\nAllen received a B.A. from Bucknell University in Philosophy. She is the President of VidComm, Inc. She is currently a resident of Edgewater Park Township.\n\nIn 2007, Allen won re-election. She was unopposed in the Republican primary and defeated Democratic challenger Rich Dennison of Florence in the November general election.\n\nAllen was considered a potential candidate for the New Jersey's 3rd congressional district seat being vacated by fellow Republican Jim Saxton in the 2008 election. However, she announced on November 29, 2007, that she would not run for the seat, citing factionalism in the Burlington County Republican Party in her statement.\n\nOn November 9, 2009, Allen announced that she has been diagnosed with an aggressive form of cancer. Allen had been informed in November 2009 that she had oral cancer. Though doctors had initially thought that treatment would require removal of her tongue and that she would be unable to speak normally, the surgery performed in 2010 did not greatly impair her speech, and she has since undergone radiation and laser treatments.\n\nThe Broadcast Pioneers of Philadelphia inducted Allen into their Hall of Fame in 2005.\n\nAllen, and her husband, Sam, are members of Mt. Laurel Friends Meeting and Moorestown Friends Meeting, where she currently serves on the Ministry Committee.\n\nEach of the 40 districts in the New Jersey Legislature has one representative in the New Jersey Senate and two members in the New Jersey General Assembly. The other representatives from the 7th Legislative District for the 2016–2017 Legislative Session are:\n\n"}
{"id": "10598905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10598905", "title": "Felix Coetzee", "text": "Felix Coetzee\n\nFelix Coetzee (born 7 March 1959 in Durban, Natal Province, Union of South Africa) is a South African jockey in thoroughbred horse racing. \n\nFelix Coetzee is the son of a KwaZulu-Natal trainer and his grandfather was an owner-trainer. As a fifteen-year-old, Felix Coetzee attended the Jockey Academy at Summerveld then served his apprenticeship with his father's racing stable. At age sixteen, he scored his first significant win, riding Kentford to victory in the 1975 Clairwood Winter Handicap. In 1982 he signed on with renowned Cape Town trainer Terence M. Millard with whom he was associated until his retirement in 1991.\n\nDuring his career, Felix Coetzee has led all South African jockeys in wins three times and has won numerous important South African races. At Greyville Racecourse, he won the country's premier race, the Rothmans July Handicap three times, and the Gold Cup a record-equaling seven times. Coetzee is also a five-time winner of the J&B Metropolitan Stakes at Kenilworth Racecourse.\n\nIn 1992, he accepted an offer to ride in Hong Kong for trainer Brian Kan Ping-chee. After five successful years, he switched to riding for trainer David Hill and then in 1999 with Tony Cruz with whom he earned numerous Group One wins most notably aboard the three-time World Champion Sprinter, Silent Witness.\n\n"}
{"id": "49982409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49982409", "title": "Giovanni Liccio", "text": "Giovanni Liccio\n\nBlessed Giovanni Liccio (1400 - 14 November 1511) was an Italian Roman Catholic priest and a professed member of the Order of Preachers. Liccio was a noted miracle worker and a pious preacher who was also known for his simple and ascetic manner of living. Liccio's miracles earned him the reputation of being a saint and devotion to him throughout the Sicilian cities spread at a rapid pace.\n\nOn 25 April 1753 he was beatified after his cultus was approved.\n\nGiovanni Liccio was born in 1400 in Palermo to a poor farmer. His mother died during childbirth and left Liccio with no mother.\n\nHis father had to work in the fields so left Liccio alone so he could work and would feed him crushed pomegranates because he could not afford other food. Liccio's cries led to a female neighbor taking him to her home to feed him and left him next to the bedside of her immobile husband. But the husband could move as soon as Liccio was placed near him. The neighbor told Liccio's father but the latter was dismissive and more concerned with the fact that she had taken his son without his permission. As soon as the child was taken the husband could no longer move. Liccio's father took this as a sign of the divine and allowed the neighbours to care for his son while he worked.\n\nBefore he turned ten he was able to recite the canonical hours. On a trip to Palermo at the age of fifteen he went to have his Confession heard in the church of Saint Zita of Lucca; the Blessed Pietro Geremia heard his confession and suggested that Liccio become a religious and pushed the idea across. Despite his initial feelings of doubt he joined the Order of Preachers in 1415 and was later ordained to the priesthood.\n\nOnce he was ordained he set himself on establishing a convent devoted to Saint Zita of Lucca in Caccamo. He lacked the appropriate funds for the construction so reflected and while this happened had a vision. In his vision, an angel told him to \"build on the foundations\" that now existed. Mere hours later he found the abandoned foundation of a church - Santa Maria degli Angeli - that was never finished and so took over the site upon assuming that was the place the angel mentioned to him.\n\nLiccio gained the reputation of being a miracle worker for he could heal people and could transcend the norms. On several occasions - for the workers - he could double the amount of bread and wine available. He could heal people's deformities and injuries. Despite being a miracle worker he was not known for being a great homilist. He was made the provincial of all Dominican Sicilian houses. He was called to preach in Vicenza (1466–67) and in Naples (1479).\n\nLiccio died in his hometown on 14 November 1511.\n\nLiccio received beatification on 25 April 1753 after Pope Benedict XIV had approved his cultus as being a long-standing devotion across Palermo and other Sicilian cities.\n\n"}
{"id": "225602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225602", "title": "Harry Kendall Thaw", "text": "Harry Kendall Thaw\n\nHarry Kendall Thaw (February 12, 1871 – February 22, 1947) was the son of Pittsburgh coal and railroad baron William Thaw Sr. Heir to a multimillion-dollar mine and railroad fortune, Thaw had a history of severe mental instability and led a profligate life. His historical legacy rests on one notorious act: on June 25, 1906, on the rooftop of Madison Square Garden, Thaw murdered renowned architect Stanford White, who had previously sexually assaulted Thaw's wife, model/chorus girl Evelyn Nesbit, when she was 16.\n\nPlagued by mental illness since childhood, Thaw spent money lavishly to fund his obsessive partying, his drug addiction, and the gratification of his sexual appetites. The Thaw family wealth allowed them to buy the silence of those who threatened to make public the worst of Thaw's reckless behavior and licentious transgressions. Throughout his life, however, he had several serious confrontations with the criminal justice system, which resulted in his incarceration in mental institutions.\n\nThaw shot and killed Stanford White as a result of his jealousy over the relationship between his wife, Evelyn Nesbit, and White. After one hung jury, he was found not guilty by reason of insanity. Years later, White's son Lawrence Grant White would write, \"On the night of June 25th, 1906, while attending a performance at Madison Square Garden, Stanford White was shot from behind [by] a crazed profligate whose great wealth was used to besmirch his victim's memory during the series of notorious trials that ensued.\"\n\nThaw was born on February 12, 1871, to Pittsburgh coal and railroad baron William Thaw, Sr., and his second wife, Mary Sibbet (Copley) Thaw. The elder Thaw fathered eleven children from his two marriages. Thaw had five siblings, Margaret (born 1877), Alice Cornelia (born 1880), Edward (born 1873) and Josiah (born 1874). A brother, born a year before Harry, died an accidental death in infancy, smothered by his mother's breast while he lay in her bed. Thaw's mother herself was known for her abuse of the servants, and episodes of ungovernable temper.\n\nIn childhood Thaw was subject to bouts of insomnia, temper tantrums, incoherent babbling and, notably baby talk, a form of expression which he retained in adulthood. His chosen form of amusement was appropriating heavy household objects as weaponry to hurl at the heads of servants. The misfortune of others brought on fits of giggling. He spent his childhood bouncing from private school to private school in Pittsburgh, never doing well and described by teachers as unintelligent and a troublemaker. A teacher at the Wooster Prep School described the sixteen-year-old Harry as having an \"erratic kind of zig-zag\" walk, \"which seemed to involuntarily mimic his brain patterns.\" Still, as the son of William Thaw, he was granted admission to the University of Pittsburgh, where he was to study law, though he apparently did little studying. After a few years, he used his name and social status to transfer to Harvard College.\n\nThaw later bragged that he had studied poker at Harvard. He reportedly lit his cigars with hundred dollar bills. He also went on long drinking binges, attended cockfights, and spent much of his time romancing young women. In 1894, he chased a cab driver down a Cambridge street with a shotgun, believing he had been cheated out of ten cents change. He claimed the shotgun was unloaded. Thaw was ultimately expelled from Harvard for \"immoral practices\", as well as intimidating and threatening fellow students and teachers. His expulsion was immediate; he was given three hours to pack up and move out.\n\nThaw's father, in an attempt to curb his son's narcissistic excesses, limited his monthly allowance to $2,500. This still was a great deal of money in an era when the average workingman earned $500 a year and a lavish dinner at the famed Delmonico's restaurant cost $1.50. The elder Thaw died in 1893, leaving his 22-year-old son $3,000,000 in his will. Upon the death of her husband, Thaw's mother increased his allowance to $8,000, enabling him to indulge his every whim, however outrageous, and gratify his sadistic sexual impulses. Thaw was the beneficiary of this monthly income for the next eighteen years. In addition, he held the distinction of being heir to a fortune estimated at some $40,000,000.\n\nEarly on and for years into the future, his mother and a cadre of lawyers dedicated themselves to the business of damage control, shielding Thaw's transgressions from any public scandal that would dishonor the family name. Monetary pay-offs became the customary method of assuring the required silence. One such notorious example occurred in Thaw's London hotel room, where he purportedly devised a lure for an unsuspecting bellboy, whom Thaw proceeded to restrain naked in a bathtub, brutalizing him with beatings from a riding whip. Thaw had to pay out $5,000 to keep the incident quiet.\n\nWith an enormous amount of cash at his disposal, and reserves of energy to match, Thaw repeatedly tore through Europe at a frenetic pace, frequenting bordellos where his pleasure involved restraining his partners with handcuffs and other devices of bondage. In Paris in 1895, Thaw threw an extravagant party, reputedly costing $50,000, which drew wide publicity. The attendees were Thaw himself and twenty-five of the most beautiful showgirls/bordello prostitutes he could assemble. A military band was hired to provide musical entertainment. For Thaw, John Philip Sousa’s marches were the favored party music as \"they lifted the roof off the place.\" Each of the Parisian beauties found a unique party favor at the end of the meal. The dessert course was a $1,000 piece of jewelry wrapped around the stem of a liqueur glass.\n\nExhibiting the classic characteristics of the skilled, manipulative sociopath, Thaw was able to keep the more sinister side of his personality in check when it suited his purposes and furthered his current agenda. He had the faculty, when required, to impress upon others that he was a gentle, caring soul. The term \"playboy\" entered the popular vernacular, it is alleged, inspired by Thaw himself— a vivid encapsulation of the lifestyle he so vigorously pursued.\n\nAfter his expulsion from Harvard, Thaw's sphere of activity alternated between Pennsylvania and New York. In New York, Thaw was determined to place himself amongst those privileged to occupy the summit of social prominence and to take his rightful place as a bona fide member of its rarefied atmosphere. His application for coveted membership in the city's elite men's clubs - the Metropolitan Club, the Century Club, the Knickerbocker Club, the Players' Club - were all rejected. His membership of the Union League Club of New York was summarily revoked when he rode a horse up the steps into the club's entrance way, a \"behavior unbefitting a gentleman.\" All these snubs, Thaw was convinced, were directly or indirectly due to the intervention of the city's social lion, lauded architect Stanford White, who would not countenance Thaw's entry into these exclusive clubs. Thaw's narcissism rebelled at such a state of affairs and ignited a virulent animosity towards White. This was the first identifiable incident in a long line of perceived indignities heaped on Thaw, who maintained the unshakable certainty that his victimization was all orchestrated by White.\n\nA second incident subsequently occurred that furthered Thaw's paranoid obsession with White. A disgruntled showgirl whom Thaw had publicly insulted reaped revenge when she sabotaged a lavish party Thaw had planned by hijacking all the female invitees and transplanting the festivities to White's infamous Tower room. Thaw, stubbornly ignorant of the real cause of the train of events, once again blamed White for single-handedly destroying his revelries. Thaw's social humiliation was completed when the episode was reported in the gossip columns. Thaw left with a stag group of guests, and a glaring absence of \"doe-eyed girlies.\"\n\nThe reality was that Thaw both admired and resented White's social stature. More significantly, he recognized that he and White shared a passion for similar life styles. However, unlike Thaw, who had to operate in the shadows, White could carry on without censure, and seemingly with impunity.\n\nVarious sources document Thaw's drug use, which became habitual after his expulsion from Harvard. He reportedly injected large amounts of cocaine and morphine, occasionally mixing the two drugs into one injection known as a speedball. He was known to also use laudanum; on at least one occasion he drank a full bottle in a single swallow. Thaw's drug addiction was verified when Evelyn Nesbit, Thaw's wife, found confirmation upon opening a bureau drawer. In her own words she related, \"One day...I found a little silver box oblong in shape, about two and one half inches in length, containing a hypodermic syringe...I asked Thaw what it was for, and he stated to me that he had been ill, and had to make some excuse. He said he had been compelled to take cocaine.\"\n\nThaw had been in the audience of \"The Wild Rose\", a show in which Evelyn Nesbit, a popular artist's model and chorus girl, was a featured player. The smitten Thaw attended some 40 performances over the better part of a year. Through an intermediary, he ultimately arranged a meeting with Nesbit, introducing himself as \"Mr. Munroe\". Thaw maintained this subterfuge, with the help of confederates, while showering Nesbit with gifts and money before he felt the time was right to reveal his true identity. The day came when he confronted Nesbit and announced with self-important brio, \"I am not Munroe...I am Henry Kendall Thaw, of Pittsburgh!\"\n\nCandid about his dislike of Thaw, Stanford White warned Nesbit to stay away from Thaw. However, his cautions were generalizations, lacking the sordid specifics that would have alerted Nesbit to Thaw's all too real, aberrant proclivities. A bout of presumed appendicitis put Nesbit in the hospital and provided Thaw with an opportunity to insert himself emphatically into her life. Thaw came in bearing gifts and praise, managing to impress both Nesbit's mother and the headmistress at the boarding school Nesbit attended. Later, under Stanford White's orders, Nesbit was moved to a sanatorium in upstate New York, where both White and Thaw visited often, though never at the same time.\n\nNesbit had undergone an emergency appendectomy, at which time the kind-hearted side of Thaw came into play. He solicitously promoted a European trip, convincing mother and daughter that such a pleasure excursion would hasten Nesbit's recovery from surgery. However, the trip proved to be anything but recuperative. Thaw's usual hectic mode of travel escalated into a non-stop itinerary, calculated to weaken Nesbit's emotional resilience, compound her physical frailty, and unnerve and exhaust Mrs. Nesbit. As tensions mounted, mother and daughter began to bicker and quarrel, leading to Mrs. Nesbit's insistence on returning to the United States. Having effectively alienated her from her mother, Thaw then took Nesbit to Paris, leaving Mrs. Nesbit in London.\n\nIn Paris, Thaw continued to press Nesbit to become his wife; she again refused. Aware of Thaw's obsession with female chastity, she could not in good conscience accept his marriage proposal without revealing to him the truth of her relationship with Stanford White. What transpired next was a marathon session of inquisition, during which time Thaw managed to extract every detail of that night—how—when plied with champagne—Nesbit lay intoxicated, unconscious—and White \"had his way with her\". Throughout the grueling question and answer ordeal, Nesbit was tearful and hysterical; Thaw by turns was agitated and gratified by her responses. He further drove the wedge between mother and daughter, condemning Mrs. Nesbit as an unfit parent. Evelyn Nesbit blamed the outcome of events on her own willful defiance of her mother's cautionary advice and defended her mother as naïve and unwitting.\n\nThaw and Nesbit traveled through Europe. Thaw, as guide, chose a bizarre agenda, a tour of sites devoted to the cult of virgin martyrdom. In Domrémy, France, the birthplace of Joan of Arc, Thaw left a telling inscription in the visitor's book: \"she would not have been a virgin if Stanford White had been around.\"\n\nThaw took Nesbit to a castle, the Schloss Katzenstein in the Austrian Tyrol, the foreboding, gothic structure sitting near a high mountaintop. Thaw segregated the three servants in residence – butler, cook and maid – in one end of the castle; himself and Nesbit in the opposite end. This was where Nesbit, to her horror, became Thaw's prisoner. She was locked in her room by Thaw, whose persona took on a dimension she had never before seen. Manic and violent, he beat her with a whip and sexually assaulted her over a two-week period. After his reign of terror had been expended, he was apologetic, and incongruously, after what had just transpired, was in an upbeat mood.\n\nThaw had pursued Nesbit obsessively for nearly four years, continuously pressing her for marriage. Craving financial stability in her life, and in doing so denying Thaw's tenuous grasp on reality, Nesbit finally consented to become Thaw's wife. They were wed on April 4, 1905. Thaw himself chose the wedding dress. Eschewing the traditional white gown, he dressed her in a black traveling suit decorated with brown trim.\n\nThe two took up residence in the Thaw family home, Lyndhurst, in Pittsburgh. In later years Nesbit took measure of life in the Thaw household. The Thaws were anything but intellectuals. Their value system was shallow and self-serving, \"the plane of materialism which finds joy in the little things that do not matter—the \"appearance\" of ...[things].\"\n\nEnvisioning a life of travel and entertaining, Nesbit was rudely awakened to a reality markedly different; a household ruled over by the sanctimonious propriety of \"Mother Thaw\". Thaw himself entered into his mother's sphere of influence, seemingly without protest, taking on the pose of pious son and husband. It was at this time that Thaw instituted a zealous campaign to expose Stanford White, corresponding with the reformer Anthony Comstock, an infamous crusader for moral probity and the expulsion of vice. Because of this activity, Thaw became convinced that he was being stalked by members of the notorious Monk Eastman Gang, hired by White to kill him. Thaw started to carry a gun. Nesbit later corroborated his mind-set: \"[Thaw] imagined his life was in danger because of the work he was doing in connection with the vigilance societies and the exposures he had made to those societies of the happenings in White’s flat.\"\n\nIt is conjectured that Stanford White was unaware of Thaw's long-standing vendetta against him. White considered Thaw a poseur of little consequence, categorized him as a clown, and most tellingly, called him the \"Pennsylvania pug\"—a reference to Thaw's baby-faced features.\n\nJune 25, 1906, was an inordinately hot day. Thaw and Nesbit were stopping in New York briefly before boarding a luxury liner bound for a European holiday. Thaw had purchased tickets for himself, two of his male friends, and his wife for a new show, \"Mam'zelle Champagne\", playing on the rooftop theatre of Madison Square Garden. In spite of the suffocating heat, which did not abate as night fell, Thaw inappropriately wore over his tuxedo a long black overcoat, which he refused to take off throughout the entire evening.\n\nAt 11:00pm, as the stage show was coming to a close, Stanford White appeared, taking his place at the table that was customarily reserved for him. Thaw had been agitated all evening, and abruptly bounced back and forth from his own table throughout the performance. Spotting White's arrival, Thaw tentatively approached him several times, each time withdrawing in hesitation. During the finale, \"I Could Love A Million Girls\", Thaw produced a pistol, and standing some two feet from his target, fired three shots at Stanford White, killing him instantly. Part of White's blood-covered face was torn away and the rest of his features were unrecognizable, blackened by gunpowder. Thaw remained standing over White's fallen body, displaying the gun aloft in the air, resoundingly proclaiming, according to witness reports, \"I did it because he ruined my wife! He had it coming to him. He took advantage of the girl and then abandoned her!\"\n\nThe crowd initially suspected the shooting might be part of the show, as elaborate practical jokes were popular in high society at the time. Soon, however, it became apparent that Stanford White was dead. Thaw, still brandishing the gun high above his head, walked through the crowd and met Evelyn at the elevator. When she asked what he had done, Thaw purportedly replied, \"It's all right, I probably saved your life.\"\n\nThaw was charged with first-degree murder and denied bail. A newspaper photo shows Thaw in The Tombs prison seated at a formal table setting, dining on a meal catered for him by Delmonico's restaurant. In the background is further evidence of the preferential treatment the Thaw influence and money provided the incarcerated man. Conspicuously absent is the standard issue jail cell cot; during his confinement Thaw slept in a brass bed. Exempted from wearing prisoner's garb, he was allowed to wear his own custom tailored clothes. The jail's doctor was induced to allow Thaw a daily ration of champagne and wine. In his jail cell, in the days following his arrest, it was reported that Thaw heard the heavenly voices of young girls calling to him, which he interpreted as a sign of divine approval. He was in a euphoric mood; Thaw was unshakable in his belief that the public would applaud the man who had rid the world of the menace of Stanford White.\n\nAs early as the morning following the murder, news coverage became both chaotic and single-minded, and ground forward with unrelenting momentum. Any person, place or event, no matter how peripheral to the murder of Stanford White, was seized on by reporters and hyped as newsworthy copy. Facts were thin but sensationalist reportage was plentiful in this, the heyday of tabloid journalism. The hard-boiled male reporters of the yellow press were bolstered by a contingent of female counterparts, christened \"Sob Sisters\". Their stock-in-trade was the human-interest piece, heavy on sentimental tropes and melodrama, crafted to pull on the emotions and punch them up to fever pitch. The rampant interest in the White murder and its key players were used by both the defense and prosecution to feed malleable reporters any \"scoops\" that would give their respective sides an advantage in the public forum. Thaw's mother, as was her custom, primed her own publicity machine through monetary pay-offs. The district attorney's office took on the services of a Pittsburgh public relations firm, McChesney and Carson, backing a print smear campaign aimed at discrediting Thaw and his wife Evelyn. Pittsburgh newspapers displayed lurid headlines; a sample of which blared, \"Woman Whose Beauty Spelled Death and Ruin.\"\n\nOnly one week after the murder, a nickelodeon film, \"Rooftop Murder\", was released, rushed into production by Thomas Edison.\n\nThe main issue in the case was the question of pre-meditation. The formidable District Attorney, William Travers Jerome, at the outset, preferred not to take the case to trial by having Thaw declared legally insane. This was to serve a two-fold purpose. The approach would save time and money, and of equal if not greater consideration, it would avoid the unfavorable publicity that would no doubt be generated from disclosures made during testimony on the witness stand—revelations that threatened to discredit many of high social standing. Thaw's first defense attorney, Lewis Delafield, concurred with the prosecutorial position, seeing that an insanity plea was the only way to avoid a death sentence for their client. Thaw dismissed Delafield, who he was convinced wanted to \"railroad [him] to Matteawan as the half-crazy tool of a dissolute woman.\"\n\nThaw's mother, however, was adamant that her son not be stigmatized by clinical insanity. She pressed for the defense to follow a compromise strategy; one of temporary insanity, or what in that era was referred to as a \"brainstorm\". Acutely conscious of the insanity in her side of the family, and after years of protecting her son's hidden life, she feared her son's past would be dragged out into the open, ripe for public scrutiny. Protecting the Thaw family reputation had become nothing less than a vigilant crusade for Thaw's mother. She proceeded to hire a team of doctors, at a cost of half a million dollars, to substantiate that her son's act of murder constituted a single aberrant act.\n\nPossibly concocted by the yellow press in concert with Thaw's attorneys, the temporary insanity defense, in Thaw's case, was dramatized as a uniquely American phenomenon. Branded \"dementia Americana\", this catch phrase encompassed the male prerogative to revenge any woman whose sacred chastity had been violated. In essence, murder motivated by such a circumstance was the act of a man justifiably unbalanced.\n\nHarry Thaw was tried twice for the murder of Stanford White. Due to the unusual amount of publicity the case had received, it was ordered that the jury members be sequestered—the first time in the history of American jurisprudence that such a restriction was ordered. The trial proceedings began on January 23, 1907, and the jury went into deliberation on April 11. After forty-seven hours, the twelve jurors emerged deadlocked. Seven had voted guilty, and five deemed Henry Kendall Thaw not guilty. Thaw was outraged that the trial had not vindicated the murder, that the jurors had not recognized it as the act of a chivalrous man defending innocent womanhood. He went into fits of physical flailing and crying when he considered the very real possibility that he would be labeled a madman and imprisoned in an asylum. The second trial took place from January 1908 through February 1, 1908.\n\nAt the second trial, Thaw pleaded temporary insanity. This legal strategy was developed by Thaw's new chief defense counsel, Martin W. Littleton, whom Thaw and his mother had retained for $25,000. Thaw was found not guilty by reason of insanity, and sentenced to incarceration for life at the Matteawan State Hospital for the Criminally Insane in Fishkill, New York. His wealth allowed him to arrange accommodations for his comfort and be granted privileges not given to the general Matteawan population.\n\nNesbit had testified at both trials. It is conjectured that the Thaws promised her a comfortable financial future if she provided testimony at trial favorable to Thaw's case. It was a conditional agreement; if the outcome proved negative, she would receive nothing. The rumored amount of money the Thaws pledged for her cooperation ranged from $25,000 to $1,000,000. Nesbit was now well aware that any solicitude or kindness shown her by the Thaw enclave was predicated on her pivotal performance on the witness stand. She was to present a pitiful portrait of innocence betrayed by the lascivious Stanford White. Thaw was to be the white knight whose noble, courageous act had avenged his wife's ruin. Throughout the prolonged court proceedings, Nesbit had received financial support from the Thaws. These payments, made to her through the Thaw attorneys, had been inconsistent and far from generous. After the close of the second trial, the Thaws virtually abandoned Nesbit, cutting off all funds. However, in an interview Nesbit's grandson, Russell Thaw, gave to the \"Los Angeles Times\" in 2005, it was his belief that Nesbit received $25,000 from the Thaw family after the end of the second trial. Nesbit and Thaw divorced in 1915.\n\nImmediately after his commitment to Matteawan, Thaw marshaled the forces of a legal team charged with the mission of having him declared sane. The legal process was protracted.\n\nIn July 1909, Thaw lawyers attempted to have their client released from Matteawan on a writ of habeas corpus. Two key witnesses for the state gave testimony at the hearing detrimental to the defense. Landlady Susan \"Susie\" Merrill recounted a chronology of Thaw's activities during the period of 1902 through 1905. Merrill had rented apartments at two separate locations to Thaw, who presented himself under an alias. Using a false name and representing himself as a theatrical agent, Thaw then proceeded to bring girls into the premises, where he physically abused and emotionally terrorized them. Newspaper reports speculated on an item brought into evidence by Merrill. The \"jeweled whip\" was insinuated into the proceedings, a graphic element suggesting the scenarios played out in Thaw's rooms. Money was paid to keep the women silent. A Thaw attorney, Clifford Hartridge, corroborated Merrill's story, identifying himself as the intermediary who handled the monetary payoffs, some $30,000, between Merrill, the various women and Thaw. On August 12, 1910, the court dismissed the petition and Thaw was returned to Matteawan. The presiding judge wrote: \"... the petitioner would be dangerous to public safety and was afflicted with chronic delusion insanity.\"\n\nDetermined to escape confinement, in 1913 Thaw walked out of the asylum and was driven over the border to Sherbrooke, Quebec. It is believed Thaw's mother, who had years of practice extricating her son from dire situations, orchestrated and financed her son's escape from Matteawan. His attorney, William Lewis Shurtleff, fought extradition back to the United States. Thaw was taken to Mt. Madison House in Gorham, New Hampshire, for the summer and kept under the watch of Sheriff Holman Drew, but in December 1914, Thaw was extradited to New York where he was able to secure a new trial. On July 16, 1915, the jury found Thaw not guilty and no longer insane, and set him free.\n\nThroughout the two murder trials, as well as after Thaw's escape from Matteawan, a contingent of the public, seduced by the resulting exaggeration of the press, had become defenders of what they deemed Thaw's justifiable murder of Stanford White. Letters were written in support of Thaw, lauding him as a defender of \"American womanhood\". Sheet music was published for a musical piece titled: \"For My Wife and Home\".\n\nSoon after the court decision, \"The Sun\", in July, 1915, weighed in with its own estimation of the justice system in the Thaw matter: \"In all this nauseous business, we don't know which makes the gorge rise more, the pervert buying his way out, or the perverted idiots that hail him with huzzas.\"\n\nAfter Thaw's escape from Matteawan, Evelyn Nesbit had expressed her own feelings about her husband's most recent imbroglio: \"He hid behind my skirts through two trials and I won’t stand for it again. I won’t let lawyers throw any more mud at me.\"\n\nIn 1916, Thaw was charged with the kidnapping, beating, and sexual assault of nineteen-year-old Frederick Gump of Kansas City. His acquaintance with Gump dated to December 1915, and Thaw had worked to gain the trust of the Gump family. Thaw had enticed Gump to come to New York under the pretense of underwriting the teenager's enrollment at Carnegie Institute. Thaw reserved rooms at the Hotel McAlpin awaiting Gump's arrival. In a \"New York Times\" article titled \"Whipping of Boy Starts Hunt for Harry K. Thaw\", dated January 12, 1917, it was reported that Gump in the hotel room was confronted by \"Thaw, armed with a short, stocky whip rushing for him.\" After his assault of Gump, Thaw fled to Philadelphia with the police in pursuit. When apprehended he was found to have attempted suicide by slashing his throat. Initially, Thaw tried to bribe the Gump family, offering to pay them a half million dollars if they would drop all criminal charges against him. Ultimately, Thaw was arrested, jailed and tried. Found insane, he was confined to Kirkbride Asylum in Philadelphia where he was held under tight security. He was ultimately judged sane and regained his freedom in April 1924. Thaw's obituary, printed in \"The New York Times\" the day after his death in 1947, implies that Thaw's mother and the Gump family arrived at a monetary settlement.\n\nEvelyn Nesbit gave birth to a son, Russell William Thaw, on October 25, 1910, in Berlin, Germany. Nesbit always maintained he was Thaw's biological child, conceived during a conjugal visit to Thaw while he was confined at Matteawan. Thaw, throughout his life, denied paternity.\n\nIn 1924, Thaw purchased a historic home, known as Kenilworth, in Clearbrook, a farming community in Frederick County, Virginia. While living at Kenilworth, Thaw ingratiated himself with the locals, joined the Rouss Fire Company, and even marched in a few local parades in his fireman's uniform. He was regarded as an eccentric by the citizens of Clearbrook but does not seem to have run into a great deal of additional legal trouble.\n\nIn 1926, Thaw published a book of memoirs titled \"The Traitor\", written to vindicate his murder of Stanford White. Thaw never regretted what he had done. Twenty years after having taken White's life Thaw said: \"Under the same circumstances, I’d kill him tomorrow.\"\n\nIn the late 1920s, Thaw went into the film production business, based on Long Island. His initial plan was to make short comedies and stories about bogus spiritualists. In 1927, he contracted with John S. Lopez and detective-story author Arthur B. Reeve for a batch of scenarios focused on the theme of fraudulent spiritualism. This association generated a lawsuit against Thaw, who refused to pay his collaborators for the script work they had done. Thaw, rejecting the original concept, now conceived of a project to film the story of his own life. He asserted, therefore, the original agreement was no longer valid and he had no financial obligation to his partners. Ultimately, in 1935, a legal judgment ruled against Thaw and in Lopez's favor in the amount of $35,000.\n\nIn 1944, Thaw sold the Kenilworth home and moved to Florida.\n\nThaw died of a heart attack in Miami, Florida, on February 22, 1947, at the age of 76. At his death Thaw left an estate with an estimated value of $1 million (equivalent to $ million as of ). In his will, he left Evelyn Nesbit a bequest of $10 thousand ($ thousand as of ), about one-percent of his net worth. He was buried in Allegheny Cemetery in Pittsburgh.\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34278130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34278130", "title": "Hengroen", "text": "Hengroen\n\nHengroen was a stallion owned by King Arthur, according to the Welsh tale \"Culhwch and Olwen.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4279993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4279993", "title": "Hunor and Magor", "text": "Hunor and Magor\n\nHunor and Magor were, according to a famous Hungarian legend, the ancestors of the Huns and the Magyars. The legend was first promoted in \"Gesta Hunnorum et Hungarorum\". The legend's aim in providing a common ancestry for the Huns and the Magyars was to suggest historical continuum of the Kingdom of Hungary with the Hun Empire. Magyars led by prince Árpád had conquered the area in the 890s. The territory had previously been held by Attila the Hun in the 5th century. The legend thus tried to prove that the Magyars were simply reclaiming their ancient homeland as descendants of Attila. According to Simon of Kéza, Hunor and Magor were the sons of Ménrót, a mythical giant, who he partly identified with Nimrod of the Bible (the great-grandson of Noah).\n\nThe brothers Hunor and Magor were the legendary forefathers of the Huns and the Hungarians, or Magyars, according to most Hungarian chronicles. Simon of Kéza's \"Gesta Hunnorum et Hungarorum\", written in the 1280s, contains the first version of their legend. Other Hungarian chronicles wrote, the brothers were the sons either of Ménrót or of Magog, king of the Scythians. Their mother was Ménrót's wife, Eneth, whose name was derived from the Hungarian word for hind (old \"eneγ\", now \"ünő\"), according to Simon of Kéza. Historians Zoltán Kordé and Gyula Kristó say that her name shows, the Hungarians once regarded a hind as their totemistic ancestor, but this pagan concept was reinterpreted after their conversion to Christianity in the 11th century.\n\nThe \"Chronicon Pictum\" makes Hunor and Magor sons of Iaphet (Japhet was the son of Noah in the Book of Genesis). Hunor and Magor, hunters like their father, were on a hunting trip when they saw their descendants multiplied and populated the nearby lands, founding the 108 clans of the Scythian nation. From them descended Attila the Hun and High Prince Álmos, the father of Árpád.\n\nThe myth was also employed by later writers, most notably chief Justice and jurisconsult István Werbőczy, who used it to extol the Hungarian nobility in his highly influential collection of Hungarian customary law, the \"Tripartitum\" (completed 1514, first published 1517). According to Werbőczy, the Hungarians, as descendants of Hunor and Magor, were of 'Scythian' origin and subject to 'Scythian' law. \"The Hungarians inherited their moral values and customs from the 'Scythians', who had once defeated even Darius and Alexander the Great. Their true vocation was war, which was the only activity that was noble enough to suit them.\" The nobles were free and equal; the peasants were the descendants of those who had been condemned for cowardice in battle and whose punishment had been commuted from execution to losing their social rank. Werbőczy thus used the Hunor and Magor myth to justify Hungarian serfdom. Werbőczy's ideas were eagerly adopted by the Hungarian nobility and became the charter of common law for three centuries.\n\nThe poorer smaller nobles (the gentry) particularly cherished their 'Scythian' identity. According to Engel:It made the nobility inclined to think in terms of historical fictions and to cherish illusions. They thought that they had the right to rule their subjects without having to meet any obligations. It also involved an extreme respect for traditions, and gave birth to what was an early form of 'nationalism'. The nobility's ideology overvalued everything that was, or was thought to be, ancient, and regarded everything that seemed strange or unusual with aversion or even hostility [...] The nobility also took delight in hearing about 'Scythian' values, for they imagined they recognised their own virtues in them. Among the petty nobility the ideal of martial simplicity must have become especially popular, for it made a virtue out of their misery and illiteracy.\"\n\nJános Arany retold the myth in his poem \"Rege a csodaszarvasról\" (\"Legend of the Miraculous Stag\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52145868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52145868", "title": "Hydeia Broadbent", "text": "Hydeia Broadbent\n\nHydeia Broadbent (born 14 June 1984) is a United-States-based HIV/AIDS activist.\n\nBroadbent was born in 1984 with HIV. She was adopted at 6 weeks old, and her adoptive parents, Loren and Patricia Broadbent, found out she had HIV three years after her adoption. Not much was known about Hydeia, as her birth mother left her at a Las Vegas hospital. The hospital called Hydeia's adoptive parents, as Hydeia's birth mother had given birth at the same hospital to another child and left him there, and both mother and child tested positive for HIV. The Broadbents tested Hydeia soon after, and she tested positive for HIV. Her adoptive mother signed her up for a research trial to hopefully find a treatment that would work for Hydeia. Growing up, Hydeia regularly had brain and blood infections, pneumonia, and fungal infections in her brain. It was predicted that she would not survive childhood, and would die at the age of 5. She survived, however, but when she was five she developed AIDS.\n\nBroadbent began her activism at age 6, by speaking about living with HIV/AIDS. She first got involved with speaking on the subject through Elizabeth Glaser, creator of the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation. The two met while Hydeia was undergoing treatment at the National Institutes of Health. Glaser asked Hydeia's mother to let Hydeia speak publicly about having HIV/AIDS, and she acquiesced. Hydeia went on to speak at many events, including AIDS benefit concerts, documentaries, college campus education events, and talk shows. She appeared on the \"Oprah Winfrey Show\" in 1996. Recently, she appeared on Oprah's \"Where Are They Now\", as she was one of the most-requested guests to be revisited. She appeared on a Nickelodeon special along with Magic Johnson. Two years after the special, she established the Hydeia L. Broadbent Foundation and received a Black Achievement Award from Jet magazine. She also appeared in \"Essence,\" and on \"The Maury Povich Show, Good Morning America,\" and at the 1996 Republican National Convention. At the Republican National Convention, she famously stated \"I am the future, and I have AIDS.\" In 2002, her family published a book entitled \"You Get Past The Tears\", and the family appeared in 2004 on \"Extreme Home Makeover.\" Broadbent currently speaks on the behalf of the Magic Johnson Foundation and other AIDS activist organizations in order to educate people about HIV/AIDS, raise awareness, and fight discrimination against those living with HIV/AIDS. She also is involved in screening drives, along with her best friend actress Jurnee Smollett-Bell. Broadbent has traveled extensively both nationally and internationally to speak to others. Broadbent currently takes three antiretroviral pills a day, and the majority of her medical payments come out of pocket. According to her, \"HIV is not a death sentence, but it's a life sentence...[y]ou'll be taking pills forever, going to the doctor and fighting for insurance forever.\" She hopes that by sharing her story, things will begin to change.\n"}
{"id": "50774691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50774691", "title": "June Croll", "text": "June Croll\n\nJune Croll (1901-1967) was a U.S. labor organizer most active during the interwar years.\n\nJune Croll was born Sonia Croll in 1901 in Odessa in the Ukraine region of Russia. During her girlhood, she emigrated illegally to Canada and then to the United States, where by the age of 12 she was working in the garment industry in New York City. It is not certain when she changed her name from Sonia to June.\n\nCroll became involved in trade unionism, organizing textile and millinary workers and leading strikes. She joined the Communist Party and by 1935 was secretary of the Anti-Nazi Federation. She later became the executive director of the Emma Lazarus Federation of Jewish Women’s Clubs (ELF). The ELF was a progressive organization formed by Clara Lemlich and others to provide relief to victims of World War II, to combat antisemitism, and to provide educational programs on Jewish identity and women's rights. Croll still held this job at the time of her death in 1967.\n\nHer communist beliefs and labor activism made her a target of McCarthyism. An attempt was made to deport her, and she was called to testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee.\n\nShe died in 1967.\n\nCroll married Carl Reeve, the executive chairman of the Communist Party of Pennsylvania and Delaware. Reeve was the son of labor organizer Ella Reeve Bloor. Croll later divorced him and had a long relationship with African-American journalist Eugene Gordon, starting in the 1930s. She traveled to the Soviet Union with Gordon in 1937-38. She married Gordon after he divorced his first wife in 1942. At times she used the alias \"Mrs. Langston Hughes\", possibly to confuse U.S. immigration authorities.\n"}
{"id": "1595126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1595126", "title": "Ken Wyniemko", "text": "Ken Wyniemko\n\nKen Wyniemko is one of two former prisoners in Michigan released on DNA evidence with help from the Innocence Project.\n\nWyniemko was convicted of first-degree criminal sexual misconduct on circumstantial evidence and the testimony of a prisoner informant, Glen McCormick, who now admits he lied in order to avoid life in prison. DNA testing was not regularly performed at the time, but even the primitive blood tests of the time indicated that Wyniemko was not the perpetrator of the crime.\n\nUnlike most convicts, Wyniemko held on to all the paperwork relating to his arrest and trial. He spent almost a decade in jail, until he contacted the Innocence Project at the Thomas M. Cooley Law School.\n\nSince being released, Wyniemko has spoken at various colleges, such as Wayne State University and the Michigan State University College of Law, about his experience as a wrongfully convicted man. He often wears black clothes and a gold crucifix. Wyniemko believes that at least 1 of 10 persons behind bars are innocent of the crimes of which they were convicted.\n\nA civil suit, Wyniemko v. Clinton Township, was settled out of court for $3.7 million. Wyniemko now \"plans to attend law school, doesn't count out a run for office someday.\"\n\nIn August 2008, prosecutors announced that DNA evidence had tied another man, Craig Gonser, to the crime for which Wyniemko had been convicted, but that Gonser could not be tried because the statute of limitations had expired.\n\n\nStellini, N. (2005, March 11) After nine years behind bars, an innocent man tells his story. \"The South End\", Detroit, Michigan.\n"}
{"id": "9328761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9328761", "title": "Leonard H. Stringfield", "text": "Leonard H. Stringfield\n\nLeonard Stringfield (1920–1994) was an American ufologist who took particular interest in crashed flying saucer stories. He died in 1994.\n\nStringfield was director of Civilian Research, Interplanetary Flying Objects (CRIFO), and published a monthly newsletter, \"ORBIT\". In 1957 he became public relations adviser for the civilian UFO group, National Investigations Committee On Aerial Phenomena (NICAP), under the direction of Donald Keyhoe, a friend since 1953. From 1967 to 1969, Stringfield served as an \"Early Warning Coordinator\" for the Condon Committee. During the 1970s, he wrote a number of books about alleged recoveries of alien spaceships and alien bodies.\n\nIn 1978, Stringfield served as UFO research adviser to Grenada Prime Minister Sir Eric Gairy. Privately, Stringfield worked as Director of Public Relations and Marketing Services for DuBois Chemicals, a division of Chemed Corporation, Cincinnati. He self-published \"Status Reports\" on alleged UFO \"crash-retrievals\" until his death. He died December 18, 1994 after a long battle with lung cancer.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "23070494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23070494", "title": "List of family relations in rugby league", "text": "List of family relations in rugby league\n\nThere have been several families from around the world of which two or more members have been involved in rugby league football at the highest levels since the sport's inception in 1895. Below is an incomplete list of families that have been involved in rugby league.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Burgess' total of 30 Tests is a Great British record for a father and son combination.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nJames and Phillip's parents were born in Samoa, though the family is now settled in South Auckland. James and Thomas' combined total of 58 Tests (as of November 2011) is thought to be a world record for a father and son combination.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Rogers' total of 35 Tests is an Australian record for a father and son combination.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBorn to an Australian father, Peter, and a Fijian mother, Jacqueline, all 5 of the Gerringong-raised Sims siblings have achieved national honours in their respective sports, with 4 having played rugby league professionally.\n\n\nA cousin of the Sims siblings, Reagan Campbell-Gillard (b. 1993), is also an NRL player with Penrith, and has represented both Fiji and Australia internationally.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nColin Tyrer, Lancashire, Leigh, Wigan, Barrow and Hull Kingston Rovers player, father of Shaun and Christian\nShaun Tyrer, Wigan, Oldham, and Whitehaven player, son of Colin, and brother of Christian\nChristian Tyrer, Widnes, Keighley Cougars, and Bath (RU) player, son of Colin, and brother of Shaun\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49655588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49655588", "title": "List of feminist art critics", "text": "List of feminist art critics\n\nThis is a list of feminist art critics. The list includes art critics that \"reflect a woman's consciousness about women\" and who have played a role in the feminist art movement. It includes second-wave and third-wave feminist critics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18248714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18248714", "title": "List of people indicted in the International Criminal Court", "text": "List of people indicted in the International Criminal Court\n\nThe list of people who have been indicted in the International Criminal Court includes all individuals who have been indicted on any counts of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, aggression, or contempt of court in the International Criminal Court (ICC) pursuant to the Rome Statute. An individual is indicted when a Pre-Trial Chamber issues either an arrest warrant or a summons after it finds that \"there are reasonable grounds to believe that the person has committed a crime within the jurisdiction of the Court\". An arrest warrant is issued where it appears necessary \"to ensure the person's appearance at trial, to ensure that the person does not obstruct or endanger the investigation or the court proceedings, or, where applicable, to prevent the person from continuing with the commission of that crime or a related crime which is within the jurisdiction of the Court and which arises out of the same circumstances\". The Pre-Trial Chamber issues a summons if it is satisfied that a summons is sufficient to ensure the person's appearance.\n\nTo date, the ICC has opened investigations into 11 situations (shown in the table below under the column titled S) in: (1) the Democratic Republic of the Congo; (2) Uganda; (3) the Central African Republic I; (4) Darfur, Sudan; (5) the Kenya; (6) Libya; (7) Côte d'Ivoire; (8) Mali; (9) the Central African Republic II; (10) Georgia; and (11) Burundi. The ICC has \n\nThe list below details the counts against each individual indicted in the Court and his or her current status. Respectively, the column titled G lists the number of counts (if any) of the crime of genocide with which an individual has been charged; H list the number of counts of crimes against humanity; W the number of counts of war crimes; A the number of counts of the crime of aggression; and C lists the number of counts of contempt of the Court and other offenses against the administration of justice. Note that these are the counts with which an individual was indicted, not convicted. The column titled Ind. provides a link to an indictment, arrest warrant, summons, or other document listing the final charges against the individual before the beginning of the confirmation of charges hearing.\n\nBahr Abu Garda was indicted on 7 May 2009 on three counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in Darfur, Sudan. Abu Garda was alleged to have been a commander of a splinter group of the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM), a rebel group fighting in the Darfur conflict against the Sudanese government. He was accused of leading JEM forces under his command (in conjunction with other rebel forces) in a raid on the Haskanita base of the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS) on 29 September 2007, in which 12 AMIS peacekeepers were killed and eight were seriously injured; the base was also extensively damaged. Abu Garda was accused of being criminally responsible for murder, pillaging, and \"intentionally directing attacks against personnel, installations, materials, units and vehicles involved in a peacekeeping mission\". Abu Garda was summoned to appear before the Court on 18 May 2009 and the confirmation of charges hearing was held from 19 October 2009 to 30 October 2009. On 8 February 2010 Pre-Trial Chamber I ruled that the charges against him would not be confirmed. On 23 April 2010 Pre-Trial Chamber I rejected the Prosecutor's application to appeal its decision, thus ending the proceedings in the case.\n\nMohammed Ali was indicted on 8 March 2011 on five counts of crimes against humanity with regard to the situation in the Republic of Kenya. Ali, who at the time was the Commissioner of the Kenya Police, was alleged to have conspired with Francis Muthaura, an adviser of Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki, to order the police forces that he commanded not to intervene in stopping violence perpetrated by Mungiki forces loyal to President Kibaki during post-election violence from 27 December 2007 to 29 February 2008. Ali was alleged to be criminally responsible for murders, deportations, rapes and other forms of sexual violence, persecutions, and other inhumane acts perpetrated by Mungiki against civilians who were perceived to be loyal to the Orange Democratic Movement (the political party of President Kibaki's rival) in the towns of Kibera, Kisumu, Naivasha, and Nakuru. Ali was summoned to appear before the Court on 8 April 2011 and the confirmation of charges hearing was held from 21 September 2011 to 5 October 2011, in conjunction with the cases against Muthaura and Uhuru Kenyatta. On 23 January 2012, Pre-Trial Chamber II decided not to confirm the charges against Ali, thus ending the proceedings against him.\n\nAbdallah Banda was indicted on 27 August 2009 on three counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in Darfur, Sudan. Banda is alleged to have been a commander of a splinter group of the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM), a rebel group fighting in the Darfur conflict against the Sudanese government. He is accused of leading JEM forces under his command (in conjunction with other rebel forces) in a raid on the Haskanita base of the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS) on 29 September 2007, in which 12 AMIS peacekeepers were killed and eight were seriously injured; the base was also extensively damaged. Banda is accused of ordering murders, pillaging, and \"intentionally directing attacks against personnel, installations, materials, units and vehicles involved in a peacekeeping mission\". Banda was summoned to appear before the Court on 17 June 2010 and the confirmation of charges hearing was held on 8 December 2010, in conjunction with the case against Saleh Jerbo. On 7 March 2011 Pre-Trial Chamber I confirmed all the charges against him. On 11 September 2014, Trial Chamber IV replaced the summons to appear with an arrest warrant and suspended the case until Banda appears in court.\n\nOmar al-Bashir was indicted on 4 March 2009 on five counts of crimes against humanity and two counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in Darfur, Sudan. On 12 July 2010 he was additionally charged with three counts of genocide. During the Darfur conflict (specifically from April 2003 to 14 July 2008), al-Bashir, from his position as President of Sudan, is accused of implementing a government policy that used the state apparatus (the military, police, security, and Janjaweed forces) to attack Fur, Masalit, and Zaghawa populations that were perceived to be sympathetic to rebel groups. Al-Bashir is accused of ordering the rape, murder, extermination, forcible transfer, and torture of civilians, as well as the pillaging of numerous villages and camps. Additionally, he is accused of intending to partially destroy the Fur, Masalit, and Zaghawa ethnic groups by killings, \"causing serious bodily or mental harm\", and \"deliberately inflicting conditions of life calculated to bring about physical destruction\" of the ethnic groups. The Court has issued two arrest warrants for al-Bashir and he is currently a fugitive openly living in Sudan, where he serves as President. As such Sudanese state policy has been not to cooperate with the Court. Since the warrants have been issued, al-Bashir has traveled to several other countries and has not been arrested. Among the countries he traveled to include Chad, Djibouti,Kenya, Malawi, and South Africa which are states parties to the Rome Statute, and were therefore obligated to have arrested him. On 26 March 2013, Pre-Trial Chamber II made a finding that Chad had failed to cooperate with the Court and therefore referred the non-compliance to the Security Council. On 5 September 2013, however, Pre-Trial Chamber II found that a similar visit to Nigeria did not constitute non-compliance, but it requested Nigeria \"to immediately arrest Omar Al Bashir and surrender him to the Court should a similar situation arise in the future\".\n\nJean-Pierre Bemba was indicted on 23 May 2008 on two counts of crimes against humanity and four counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in the Central African Republic (CAR). On 10 June 2008, the arrest warrant was amended and the charges changed to three counts of crimes against humanity and five counts of war crimes.< Bemba is alleged to have led the Movement for the Liberation of the Congo (MLC), a Congolese rebel group, into the CAR after Central African President Ange-Félix Patassé sought Bemba's assistance in suppressing a rebellion led by François Bozizé. Bemba was accused of being criminally responsible for acts of rape, torture, \"outrages upon personal dignity\", murder, and pillage that occurred in the towns and cities of Bangui, Bossangoa, Bossembélé, Damara, and Mongoumba from 25 October 2002 to 15 March 2003. Bemba was arrested in Belgium on 24 May 2008, transferred to the Court's custody on 3 July 2008, and first brought before the Court the next day. The final charges filed by the Prosecutor were three counts of crimes against humanity and five counts of war crimes. The confirmation of charges hearing was held from 12 to 15 January 2009, and on 15 June 2009 Pre-Trial Chamber II partially confirmed the charges against Bemba, finding that he would stand trial for two counts of crimes against humanity and three counts of war crimes. Specifically, Pre-Trial Chamber II declined to confirm the charges of torture or outrages upon personal dignity. The trial against Bemba began on 22 November 2010. On 21 March 2016, Trial Chamber III delivered its judgment in which it found Bemba guilty of all five counts. The Trial Chamber sentenced Bemba to 18 years' imprisonment on 21 June 2016. Bemba is appealing the conviction and sentence.\n\nCharles Blé Goudé was indicted on 21 December 2011 with four counts of crimes against humanity with regard to the situation in the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire. As the leader of the Congrès Panafricain des Jeunes et des Patriotes, the youth organization that supported Ivorian President Laurent Gbagbo, Blé Goudé is alleged to have been \"an indirect co-perpetrator\" in Gbagbo's organized plan of systematic attacks against civilians in and around Abidjan, including in the vicinity of the Golf Hotel, during post-election violence that began on 28 November 2010. Fighters under the command of Gbagbo are alleged to have murdered, raped, persecuted, and inhumanly treated civilians who were perceived to be supporters of Alassane Ouattara, Gbagbo's opponent in the 2010 presidential election. Blé Goudé was arrested on 17 January 2013 in Ghana, and extradited to Côte d'Ivoire the next day. On 22 March 2014, the Ivorian government transferred Blé Goudé to the Court's custody. He arrived at the Court's detention center in The Hague on 23 March. The confirmation of charges hearing was held from 29 September to 2 October 2014, and on 11 December 2014, the Pre-Trial Chamber confirmed all the charges against Blé Goudé, thereby committing him to trial. On 11 March 2015, the Trial Chamber joined the cases against Blé Goudé and Laurent Gbagbo. The trial in the case began on 28 January 2016.\n\nMuammar Gaddafi was indicted on 27 June 2011 on two counts of crimes against humanity with regard to the situation in Libya. As the Leader of the Revolution (the \"de facto\" head of state) and Commander of the Armed Forces of Libya he allegedly planned, in conjunction with his inner circle of advisers, a policy of violent oppression of popular uprisings in the early weeks of the Libyan civil war. He allegedly formulated a plan in response to the 2011 Tunisian and Egyptian revolutions whereby Libyan state security forces under his authority were ordered to use all means necessarily to quell public protests against his government. From 15 February 2011 until at least 28 February 2011, forces from government-organized militias, the national police, the Libyan Armed Forces, the Revolutionary Guard Corps, and other security services, acting under Gaddafi's orders, allegedly murdered hundreds of civilians and committed \"inhuman acts that severely deprived the civilian population of its fundamental rights\" in the cities of Ajdabiya, Bayda, Benghazi, Derna, Misrata, Tobruk, and Tripoli. Gaddafi was killed in the Libyan city of Sirte on 20 October 2011 and the Court terminated proceedings against him on 22 November 2011.\n\nSaif al-Islam Gaddafi was indicted on 27 June 2011 on two counts of crimes against humanity with regard to the situation in Libya. Although not an official member of the Libyan government, Saif al-Islam Gaddafi is alleged to have been the \"de facto\" prime minister and the \"unspoken successor and the most influential person\" to Muammar Gaddafi, the \"de facto\" head of state. Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, in conjunction with Muammar Gaddafi and his inner circle of advisers, allegedly planned a policy of violent oppression in response to the 2011 Tunisian and Egyptian revolutions that was implemented in the early weeks of the Libyan civil war. From 15 February 2011 until at least 28 February 2011, forces from government-organized militias, the national police, the Libyan Armed Forces, the Revolutionary Guard Corps, and other security services allegedly followed the policy and used all means necessarily to quell public protests against Muammar Gaddafi's government. They allegedly murdered hundreds of civilians and committed \"inhuman acts that severely deprived the civilian population of its fundamental rights\" in the cities of Ajdabiya, Bayda, Benghazi, Derna, Misrata, Tobruk, and Tripoli. Saif al-Islam Gaddafi was detained by members of a revolutionary militia on 19 November 2011 near the Libyan town of Ubari and taken to the city of Zintan. In 2012, Libyan authorities stated their intention to try Gaddafi in Libya. However, on 10 December 2014 the Pre-Trial Chamber found Libya in non-compliance with several of its orders, including an order to transfer Gaddafi to its custody, and accordingly it referred Libya to the Security Council. On 9 June 2017, the militia that had been holding Gaddafi since 2011 freed him from custody and his current whereabouts are unknown.\n\nLaurent Gbagbo was indicted on 23 November 2011 on four counts of crimes against humanity with regard to the situation in the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire. As the President of Côte d'Ivoire, Gbagbo is alleged to have organized, along with members of his inner circle, systematic attacks against civilians during post-election violence that began on 28 November 2010. National security forces, the National Armed Forces, militias, and mercenaries under the command of Gbagbo are alleged to have murdered, raped, persecuted, and inhumanly treated civilians who were perceived to be supporters of Alassane Ouattara, Gbagbo's opponent in the 2010 presidential election. According to the arrest warrant for Gbagbo, the crimes occurred in and around Abidjan, including in the vicinity of the Golf Hotel, and in the western part of the country from 16 December 2010 to 12 April 2011. Gbagbo was detained by forces loyal to Ouattara in the presidential residence on 11 April 2011. On 29 November 2011, Gbagbo was transferred to the Court. On 5 December 2011 he made his first appearance before the Court and the confirmation of charges hearing took place from 19 to 28 February 2013 before the pre-trial chamber and on 12 June 2014 it confirmed all the charges against him. On 11 March 2015, the Trial Chamber joined the cases against Charles Blé Goudé and Laurent Gbagbo. The trial in the case began on 28 January 2016.\n\nSimone Gbagbo was indicted on 29 February 2012 on four counts of crimes against humanity with regard to the situation in the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire. As the wife of Ivorian President Laurent Gbagbo, Ms. Gbagbo is alleged to have co-organized, as a member of her husband's inner circle of advisers, a policy targeting against civilians during post-election violence that began on 28 November 2010. National security forces, the National Armed Forces, militias, and mercenaries acting pursuant to the policy are alleged to have murdered, raped, persecuted, and inhumanly treated civilians who were perceived to be supporters of Alassane Ouattara, Laurent Gbagbo's opponent in the 2010 presidential election. According to the arrest warrant, the crimes occurred in and around Abidjan, including in the vicinity of the Golf Hotel, and in the western part of the country from 16 December 2010 to 12 April 2011. Gbagbo was detained by Ivorian forces loyal to Ouattara in the presidential residence on 11 April 2011. On 22 November 2012 the warrant of arrest was unsealed. On 11 December 2014, the Pre-Trial Chamber dismissed Côte d'Ivoire's challenge to the admissibility of the case, finding that the domestic investigation was deficient and that Côte d'Ivoire's obligation to transfer Gbagbo to the Court remained in force. However, the domestic prosecution of Simone Gbagbo continued and on 10 March 2015 a court sentenced her to 20 years' imprisonment for \"undermining state security, disturbing public order and organising armed gangs\" during the post-election violence.\n\nAhmed Haroun was indicted on 27 April 2007 on 20 counts of crimes against humanity and 22 counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in Darfur, Sudan. He is alleged to have coordinated the operations of Sudanese military, police, security, and Janjaweed forces in the Darfur region while he was Minister of State for the Interior from April 2003 to September 2005 during the Darfur conflict. These forces were allegedly aided and encouraged by Haroun to attack Fur civilian populations, specifically those in the towns of Arawala, Bindisi, Kodoom, Mukjar, and the surrounding areas. Civilian populations were subject to persecution, murder, forcible transfer, rape, imprisonment, torture, sexual abuse, and other inhumane acts. Additionally, property was allegedly destroyed and the towns were pillaged. Since his indictment, Haroun has continued to play an active role in the Sudanese government, which has refused to cooperate with the Court. He served as Sudan's Minister of State for Humanitarian Affairs until May 2009 when he was appointed Governor of South Kordofan.\n\nAbdel Rahim Hussein was indicted on 1 March 2012 on 13 counts of crimes against humanity and six counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in Darfur, Sudan. As the Minister of the Interior and Special Representative of the President to Darfur, Hussein is alleged to have contributed to the organization and command of government and allied Janjaweed forces in 2003 during the Darfur conflict. Between August 2003 and March 2004 these forces attacked Fur, Masalit, and Zaghawa civilians who were perceived to be loyal to rebel groups such as the Sudan Liberation Movement/Army and the Justice and Equality Movement. Government and Janjaweed forces are alleged to have attacked civilians and pillaged in and around the towns of Arawala, Bindisi, Kodoom, and Mukjar. During the attacks they are accused of persecuting the civilian populations by committing acts of murder, rape, sexual violence, imprisonment, torture, forcible transfer, and other inhumane acts. Hussein continues to play an active role in the Sudanese government (which has refused to cooperate with the Court) and he is currently serving as Minister of Defense.\n\nSaleh Jerbo was indicted on 27 August 2009 on three counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in Darfur, Sudan. Jerbo is alleged to have been a commander of a splinter group of the Sudan Liberation Movement/Army (SLM/A), a rebel group fighting in the Darfur conflict against the Sudanese government. He is accused of leading SLM/A forces under his command (in conjunction with other rebel forces) in a raid on the Haskanita base of the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS) on 29 September 2007, in which 12 AMIS peacekeepers were killed and eight were seriously injured; the base was also extensively damaged. Jerbo is accused of ordering murders, pillaging, and \"intentionally directing attacks against personnel, installations, materials, units and vehicles involved in a peacekeeping mission\". Jerbo was summoned to appear before the Court on 17 June 2010 and the confirmation of charges hearing was held on 8 December 2010, in conjunction with the case against Abdallah Banda. On 7 March 2011 Pre-Trial Chamber I confirmed all the charges against him. On 22 April 2013 Radio Dabanga reported that Jerbo had been killed on 19 April in a battle between the Justice and Equality Movement and a splinter group in which Jerbo was a commander. On 4 October 2013, the Court terminated the proceedings against Jerbo \"without prejudice to resume such proceedings should information become available that he is alive\".\n\nGermain Katanga was indicted on 2 July 2007 on three counts of crimes against humanity and six counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). On 26 June 2008, the charges were revised to four counts of crimes against humanity and nine counts of war crimes. He was alleged to have been the leader of the Front for Patriotic Resistance in Ituri (FRPI), an armed group composed mostly of members of the Ngiti ethnicity that was active during the Ituri conflict. On and around 24 February 2003, he is alleged to have ordered his forces to attack the village of Bogoro in a military operation coordinated with the Nationalist and Integrationist Front (FNI), an allied armed group composed mostly of members of the Lendu ethnicity. The target of the attack was alleged to have been both the village's predominantly Hema civilian population and the base of the Hema armed group, the Union of Congolese Patriots (UPC), located in the center of the village. Katanga is alleged to be responsible for the resulting crimes committed by FRPI and FNI fighters, including the intentional attack on the civilian population of Bogoro, the destruction and pillaging of Bogoro, the killing of at least 200 civilians, the use of child soldiers during the attack, rape, outrages upon personal dignity, \"inhumane acts of intentionally inflicting serious injuries upon civilian residents\", and \"cruel treatment of civilian residents of, or persons present at Bogoro village […] by detaining them, menacing them with weapons, and imprisoning them in a room filled with corpses\".\n\nKatanga was arrested by Congolese authorities on 1 March 2005 in connection with an attack that killed nine United Nations peacekeepers. After the Court issued a warrant for his arrest, Katanga was transferred to the Court on 17 October 2007. His trial began on 24 November 2009. The Trial Chamber delivered the judgment in the case on 7 March 2014, finding Katanga guilty of four counts of war crimes and one count of crime against humanity. On 23 May 2014, Katanga was sentenced to 12 years' imprisonment. Although both the prosecution and the defense appealed the judgment and the sentence, both parties discontinued their appeals on 25 June 2014, thus ending the proceedings. On 13 November 2015, a panel of judges from the Appeals Chamber reduced Katanga's sentence of 12 years' imprisonment by 3 years and 8 months. The Court transferred Katanga to the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 19 December 2015 to serve his sentence. Katanga completed his sentence on 18 January 2016.\n\nUhuru Kenyatta is the current President of the Republic of Kenya. He was indicted on 8 March 2011 on five counts of crimes against humanity with regard to the situation in the Republic of Kenya. Kenyatta, as a supporter of Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki, is alleged to have planned, financed, and coordinated the violence perpetrated against the perceived supporters of the Orange Democratic Movement, the political party of the President's rival, during post-election violence from 27 December 2007 to 29 February 2008. Kenyatta is alleged to have \"had control over the Mungiki organization\" and directed it to conduct murders, deportations, rapes and other forms of sexual violence, persecutions, and other inhumane acts against civilians in the towns of Kibera, Kisumu, Naivasha, and Nakuru. Kenyatta was summoned to appear before the Court on 8 April 2011 and the confirmation of charges hearing was held from 21 September 2011 to 5 October 2011, in conjunction with the cases against Mohammed Ali and Francis Muthaura. All the charges against Kenyatta were confirmed by Pre-Trial Chamber II on 23 January 2012. However, before the trial began, the Prosecutor announced on 3 December 2014 that she was withdrawing all of the charges. The Trial Chamber terminated the proceedings against Mr. Kenyatta on 13 March 2015.\n\nTohami Khaled was indicted on 13 April 2013 on four counts of crimes against humanity and three counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in Libya. The arrest warrant against him was unsealed on 24 April 2017. Khaled served as the head of the Internal Security Agency (\"ISA\") of Libya from the beginning of the Libyan Civil War in February 2011 through August 2011. During that period, members of the ISA arrested persons who were perceived by the Libyan government to be opposed to the rule of the country's leader, Muammar Gaddafi. Persons arrested by the ISA \"were subjected to various forms of mistreatment, including severe beatings, electrocution, acts of sexual violence and rape, solitary confinement, deprivation of food and water, inhumane conditions of detention, mock executions, threats of killing and rape\". The ISA conducted these activities throughout Libya, including in the cities of Benghazi, Misrata, Sirte, Tajura, Tawergha, Tripoli, and Zawiya. Khaled is accused of being responsible for crimes against humanity and war crimes both as a participant and as the commander of the ISA. Specifically, the Prosecutor alleges that Khaled is responsible for the crimes against humanity of imprisonment, torture, other inhumane acts, and persecution and the war crimes of torture, cruel treatment, and outrages upon personal dignity. Khaled is currently a fugitive, although he is believed to have fled to Egypt during the defeat of Gaddafi's forces.\n\nJoseph Kony was indicted on 8 July 2005 on 12 counts of crimes against humanity and 21 counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in Uganda. He is alleged to be the chairperson and commander-in-chief of the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), an armed group which has been waging a guerrilla campaign since 1987 against the Ugandan government. According to the arrest warrant issued for him, since 1 July 2002 \"the LRA has engaged in a cycle of violence and established a pattern of 'brutalization of civilians' by acts including murder, abduction, sexual enslavement, mutilation, as well as mass burnings of houses and looting of camp settlements\" and furthermore \"that abducted civilians, including children, are said to have been forcibly 'recruited' as fighters, porters and sex slaves to serve the LRA and to contribute to attacks against the Ugandan army and civilian communities\". Kony is currently at large and his whereabouts are unknown, although he is suspected to be in either the Central African Republic or a neighboring country.\n\nHenry Kosgey was indicted on 8 March 2011 on four counts of crimes against humanity with regard to the situation in the Republic of Kenya. He is alleged to have been the deputy leader and treasurer of an \"ad hoc\" organization created by members of the Kalenjin ethnic group to perpetrate violence on behalf of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) during post-election violence in December 2007 and January 2008. On 1 August 2011, the charges were reduced to three counts. At the time Kosgey was also Chairman of the ODM, which was the political party of presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Kosgey, as a top leader in the \"ad hoc\" Kalenjin organization, directed Kalenjin youths to target civilians of the Kikuyu, Kamba, and Kisii ethnic groups, which were perceived to be supporters of the Party of National Unity, the political party of Odinga's opponent during the election. Kosgey is alleged to be criminally responsible for the murder, deportation, torture, and persecution of civilians in the towns of Kapsabet, Nandi Hills, Turbo, and the greater Eldoret area. Kosgey first appeared before the Court, voluntarily, on 7 April 2011 and through the confirmation of charges hearing, which was held in conjunction with the cases against William Ruto and Joshua Sang. On 23 January 2012, Pre-Trial Chamber II decided not to confirm the charges against Kosgey therefore ending his proceedings before the Court.\n\nAli Kushayb was indicted on 27 April 2007 on 22 counts of crimes against humanity and 28 counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in Darfur, Sudan. He is alleged to be \"one of the most senior leaders in the tribal hierarchy in the Wadi Salih Locality\" who commanded thousands of Janjaweed forces in the Darfur region from August 2003 to March 2004 during the Darfur conflict. Furthermore, it is alleged that he was the mediator between the Sudanese government and the Janjaweed and that he implemented the government's policy in the region of Darfur and that in so doing ordered attacks on civilian populations. Kushayb is alleged to have personally participated in the attack of the towns of Arawala, Bindisi, Kodoom, and Mukjar. These attacks allegedly resulted in the persecution, murder, forcible transfer, rape, imprisonment, torture, sexual violence, and inhumane treatment of civilians, as well as the destruction of property and pillaging of villages. The Sudanese government has refused to cooperate with the Court and to execute the warrant of arrest for Kushayb. However, in October 2008 it was reported that Kushayb was arrested by Sudanese officials in connection to war crimes allegedly committed in Darfur. Despite the arrest, no evidence of any further proceedings has emerged. It is also not clear if Kushayb is in detention and his whereabouts are not publicly known.\n\nThomas Lubanga Dyilo was indicted on 10 February 2006 on three counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). He was alleged to have been the founding leader of the Union of Congolese Patriots (UCP), a rebel movement in the northeast part of the DRC, as well as the founding commander-in-chief of the UCP's armed wing, the Patriotic Force for the Liberation of the Congo (FPLC). From July 2002 to December 2003, the UCP and the FPLC allegedly fought in the Ituri conflict under the command of Lubanga Dyilo. Lubanga Dyilo is accused of conscripting and enlisting children to the FPLC and of using them \"to participate actively in hostilities\". Lubanga Dyilo was arrested on 19 March 2005 by Congolese authorities after allegedly ordering an attack on UN peacekeepers; following the indictment in 2006 and the subsequent arrest warrant, Congolese authorities transferred Lubanga Dyilo to the Court's custody on 16 March 2006. On 9 to 28 November 2006, the confirmation of charges hearing was held and all the charges where confirmed on 29 January 2007. His trial began on 26 January 2009 and ended with his conviction of all three counts on 14 March 2012. On 10 July 2012 he was sentenced to 14 years' imprisonment. On 1 December 2014, the Appeals Chamber upheld both the conviction and the sentence. The Court transferred Lubanga Dyilo to the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 19 December 2015 to serve his sentence.\n\nRaska Lukwiya was indicted on 8 July 2005 on one count of crimes against humanity and three counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in Uganda. He was alleged to be a former general and commander of the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), an armed group which has been wagging a guerrilla campaign since 1987 against the Ugandan government. According to the arrest warrant issued for him, sometime after 1 July 2002 (the date the Rome Statute entered into force) he allegedly ordered his forces to carry out attacks against internally displaced person camps which were pillaged and resulted in attacks on, enslavement of and cruel treatment of civilians. On 12 August 2006 the Ugandan military killed Lukwiya in a battle with LRA forces. Following the confirmation of his death, the Court terminated proceedings against Lukwiya on 11 July 2007.\n\nAhmad al-Mahdi was indicted on 18 September 2015 with one count of war crimes with regard to the situation in Mali. Al-Mahdi was alleged to have been the leader of Ansar Dine's \"morality brigade\" during the time that it and al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb controlled Timbuktu during the Northern Mali conflict. It is alleged that between about 30 June 2012 to 10 July 2012 he directed and participated in an attack against at least nine mausoleums and one mosque in the city. The majority of the sites attacked constitute a World Heritage Site. He was indicted for the war crime of \"intentionally directing attacks against buildings dedicated to religion and/or historical monuments.\" On 26 September 2015 he was transferred by the government of Niger to the custody of the Court, and arrived the same day at the detention center in The Hague. He made his first appearance before the Court on 30 September 2015. The confirmation of charges hearing took place on 1 March 2016 before Pre-Trial Chamber I, which confirmed the sole charge against al-Mahdi on 24 March 2016. The trial commenced on 22 August 2016, during which al-Mahdi pleaded guilty to the charge. On 27 September 2016 the trial chamber found al-Mahdi guilty and sentenced him to nine years' imprisonment.\n\nCallixte Mbarushimana was indicted on 28 September 2010 on five counts of crimes against humanity and six counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). He is alleged to have been the Executive Secretary of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), a Hutu Power rebel group fighting in the Kivu conflict, since July 2007 and the \"de facto\" President since November 2009. Since January 2009 Mbarushimana is accused of commanding FDLR troops that have attacked civilians in 11 different villages in the North and South Kivu Provinces in the eastern DRC. These attacks are alleged of resulting in the destruction of property and the murder, torture, rape, inhumane treatment, and persecution of civilians. Mbarushimana was arrested in France on 11 October 2010 and transferred to the Court on 25 January 2011. On 16 December 2011, Pre-Trial Chamber I ruled to decline to confirm the charges against him and ordered his release. The Prosecutor's appeal against the decision was rejected, and on 23 December 2011, Mbarushimana became the first person to be detained by the ICC and then set free; at his request, he was released in France.\n\nSylvestre Mudacumura was indicted on 13 July 2012 on nine counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). He is alleged to be the commander-in-chief of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), a Hutu Power rebel group fighting in the Kivu conflict. Mudacumura is alleged to have commanded FDLR troops which committed war crimes in the course of attacks against the Congolese armed forces in the villages of Busurungi, Kipopo, Malembe, Manje, Mianga, and the surrounding areas, in North and South Kivu Provinces in the eastern DRC between 20 January 2009 and 30 September 2010. During the attacks it is alleged that FDLR troops attacked civilian populations, murdered, raped, mutilated, treated cruelly, tortured, conducted outrages upon personal dignity, destroyed property, and pillaged. Mudacumura continues to lead the FDLR in the eastern DRC and is at large as a fugitive.\n\nFrancis Muthaura was indicted on 8 March 2011 with five counts of crimes against humanity with regard to the situation in the Republic of Kenya. As the Head of the Public Service, Secretary to the Cabinet, and Chairman of the National Security and Advisory Committee of Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki, he is alleged to have planned, financed, and coordinated the violent response against the perceived supporters of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), the political party of the President's rival, during post-election violence from 27 December 2007 to 29 February 2008. Specifically, Muthaura is alleged to have directed and paid Mungiki forces loyal to the president to attack civilians and instructed Mohammed Ali, the Commissioner of the Kenya Police, not to intervene against Mungiki forces. Muthaura is allegedly criminally responsible for murders, deportations, rapes and other forms of sexual violence, persecutions, and other inhumane acts perpetrated by Mungiki forces against civilians who were perceived to be loyal to the ODM in the towns of Kibera, Kisumu, Naivasha, and Nakuru. Muthaura was summoned to appear before the court on 8 April 2011 and the confirmation of charges hearing was held from 21 September 2011 to 5 October 2011, in conjunction with the cases against Mohammed Ali and Uhuru Kenyatta. On 11 March 2013, the prosecutor announced that her office would withdraw all charges against Muthaura, citing a lack of cooperation from the Kenyan government, the death and killing of witnesses, and the recantation of testimony by a key witness who was bribed by agents of the accused. On 18 March 2013, the Trial Chamber granted the prosecutor permission to withdraw the charges and terminated all proceedings against Muthaura.\n\nMathieu Ngudjolo Chui was indicted on 6 July 2007 on three counts of crimes against humanity and six counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). He was alleged to have been the commander of the Nationalist and Integrationist Front (FNI), an armed group involved in the Ituri conflict. On and around 23 February 2003, he was alleged to have led his forces into the village of Bogoro and ordered them to indiscriminately attack its civilian population in coordination with another armed group, the Front for Patriotic Resistance in Ituri (FRPI). The attack resulted in 200 civilian deaths. Ngudjolo Chui was accused of ordering his forces to attack, murder, sexually enslave, and inhumanely treat civilians in and around Bogoro. He was also accused being criminally responsible for destroying property, pillaging the village, and using children to participate in the attack. After the Court issued an arrest warrant, Ngudjolo Chui was detained on 6 February 2008 by Congolese authorities, transferred to the Court the next day, and made he his first appeared before the Court on 11 February 2008./ On 10 March 2008 the case against him was joined with the case against Germain Katanga, but the case was severed on 21 November 2012. The confirmation of charges hearing was held from 27 June 2008 to 18 July 2008 and on 26 September 2008 the Pre-Trial Chamber confirms all but three charges against Ngudjolo Chui. His trial began on 24 November 2009 and on 18 December 2012, Trial Chamber II delivered the judgment acquitting Ngudjolo Chui. The Prosecutor appealed the judgment, but the Appeals Chamber upheld the acquittal on 27 February 2015.\n\nBosco Ntaganda was indicted on 22 August 2006 on three counts of war crimes with regard to the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). On 13 July 2012 he was additionally charged with three counts of crimes against humanity and four counts of war crimes. He is alleged to be a third highest-ranking official in the Patriotic Force for the Liberation of the Congo (FPLC), the armed wing of the Union of Congolese Patriots (UCP), a rebel movement in the northeast part of the DRC, that fought in the Ituri conflict. From July 2002 to December 2003, Ntaganda is alleged to have ordered FPLC troops to conscript and enlist children to the FPLC and UCP, and of using them \"to participate actively in hostilities\". He is also alleged to have ordered attacks on Lendu and other non-Hema civilian populations in the town of Mongbwalu and the villages of Bambu, Kobu, Lipri, and Sayo, and the surrounding areas, from 1 September 2002 until 30 September 2003. In the course of the attacks, murders, rapes, and other forms of sexual violence were allegedly committed and homes were pillaged, resulting in the death of approximately 800 civilians and the displacement of 60,000. The finalized charges against Ntaganda were filed on 10 January 2014, and listed a total of 18 charges: five crimes against humanity and 13 war crimes.\n\nThe Congolese government refused to arrest him and in 2009 Ntaganda became a general in the armed forces in the city of Goma in North Kivu province. In April 2012 he and his troops defected from the military and left Goma to form the March 23 Movement, an armed group that began attacking villages and towns around Goma. Ntaganda was an alleged leader of the group and since his defection the Congolese government announced its intentions to arrest him. On 18 March 2013, following reports of clashes between factions of the March 23 Movement, Ntaganda fled to Rwanda and entered the Embassy of the United States in Kigali. He requested that the United States facilitate his surrender the Court. On 22 March, the ICC took custody of Ntaganda and transferred him to The Hague. His first appearance before the Court took place on 26 March 2013. The confirmation of charges hearing occurred from 10 to 14 February 2014 and on 9 June 2014 all the charges against Ntaganda were confirmed by the pre-trial chamber. The trial in the case began on 2 September 2015.\n\nOkot Odhiambo was indicted on 8 July 2005 on three counts of crimes against humanity and seven counts of war crimes in regard to the situation in Uganda. He is alleged to be an integral member of the policy-making leadership of the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), an armed group which has been wagging a guerrilla campaign since 1987 against the Ugandan government. Additionally, he was also a military commander and sometime after 1 July 2002 (the date the Rome Statute entered into force) he allegedly issued \"standing orders to attack and brutalise civilian populations\". These attacks on civilian populations allegedly resulted in murder, pillaging of camps, enslavement, and the forcible conscription of children. In 2014, an LRA defector claimed that the Ugandan military wounded Odhiambo in October 2013 during an ambush in the Central African Republic and that he later died from his injuries. In February 2015, Ugandan officials announced that they had exhumed a grave believed to contain Odhiambo's remains and were conducting DNA testing on the remains. Ugandan authorities confirmed that the remains were Odhiambo's and issued a death certificate stating that he died on 27 October 2013 near Djemah, Central African Republic. Accordingly, the Court terminated proceedings against Odhiambo on 10 September 2015.\n\nDominic Ongwen was indicted on 8 July 2005 on three counts of crimes against humanity and four counts of war crimes in regard to the situation in Uganda. He was allegedly a military commander and a member of the leadership of the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), an armed group which has been wagging a guerrilla campaign since 1987 against the Ugandan government. On 22 December 2015, the charges were expanded to 34 counts of crimes against humanity and 36 counts of war crimes. The Prosecutor alleges that from before July 2002 to at least December 2005 Ongwen commanded a brigade, and later a battalion, of LRA soldiers during \"a widespread or systematic attack directed against the civilian population of northern Uganda.\" The campaign included attacks against four internally displaced person camps: Pajule on 10 October 2003, Odek on 29 April 2004, Lukodi on 20 May 2004, and Abok on 8 June 2004. During such attacks, troops under Ongwen's command pillaged the camps and murdered, tortured, enslaved, and inflicted cruel treatment and inhumane acts on civilians. During the overall campaign directed against the civilian population, troops under Ongwen's command also persecuted the civilian population, forced woman into \"marriages\" and sexual slavery, committed rape, and conscripted and used child soldiers. Ongwen surrendered to United States military advisors assisting Ugandan forces on 6 January 2014 in the Central African Republic. The Court took custody of Ongwen on 17 January 2015 and he was transferred to the Court's detention center on 21 January 2015. He made his first appearance before the Court on 26 January 2015. The confirmation of charges hearing took place from 21 to 27 January 2016 before Pre-Trial Chamber II, which confirmed all the charges on 23 March 2016. The trial in the case began on 6 December 2016.\n\nVincent Otti was indicted on 8 July 2005 on 11 counts of crimes against humanity and 21 counts of war crimes in regard to the situation in Uganda. He was allegedly a military commander and the second-in-command of the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), an armed group which has been waging a guerrilla campaign since 1987 against the Ugandan government. Sometime after 1 July 2002 (the date the Rome Statute entered into force) he allegedly issued orders to attack civilian populations. These attacks allegedly resulted in sexual enslavement, rape, forcible conscription of children into the LRA, enslavement, cruel treatment, murders, pillaging of camps, and other inhumane acts. In December 2007, BBC News reported that on 2 October 2007 Otti had been executed on orders from Joseph Kony, the commander-in-chief of the LRA. Kony later confirmed that Otti was dead to Riek Machar, a mediator between the Ugandan government and the LRA. Because Otti's death has not been independently verified, the Court still considers him to be at large as a fugitive and proceedings against him are ongoing.\n\nWilliam Ruto is the current Deputy President of the Republic of Kenya. He was indicted on 8 March 2011 on four counts of crimes against humanity with regard to the situation in the Republic of Kenya. He is alleged to be the leader of an \"ad hoc\" organization created by members of the Kalenjin ethnic group which was created to perpetrate violence on behalf of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), the political party of presidential candidate Raila Odinga, during post-election violence in December 2007 and January 2008. On 1 August 2011, the charges were reduced to three counts. Ruto, as the a top leader in the \"ad hoc\" Kalenjin organization, directed Kalenjin youths to target civilians of the Kikuyu, Kamba, and Kisii ethnic groups, which were perceived to be supporters of the Party of National Unity, the political party of Odinga's opponent during the election. Ruto is alleged to be criminally responsible for the murder, deportation, torture, and persecution of civilians in the towns of Kapsabet, Nandi Hills, Turbo, the greater Eldoret area. Ruto first appeared before the Court, voluntarily, on 7 April 2011 and through the confirmation of charges hearing, which was held in conjunction with the cases against Henry Kosgey and Joshua Sang. All the charges against Ruto were confirmed by Pre-Trial Chamber II on 23 January 2012 Ruto's trial began on 10 September 2013, in conjunction with the case against Joshua Sang, but the Trial Chamber vacated the charges against both accused on 5 April 2016, ending the proceedings in the case.\n\nJoshua Sang was indicted on 8 March 2011 on four counts of crimes against humanity with regard to the situation in the Republic of Kenya. He is alleged to a top leader of an \"ad hoc\" organization created by members of the Kalenjin ethnic group which was created to perpetrate violence on behalf of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), the political party of presidential candidate Raila Odinga, during post-election violence in December 2007 and January 2008. On 1 August 2011, the charges were reduced to three counts. As a broadcaster for the Kass FM radio station, Sang incited Kalenjin youths to target civilians of the Kikuyu, Kamba, and Kisii ethnic groups, which were perceived to be supporters of the Party of National Unity, the political party of Odinga's opponent during the election. He is alleged to be indirectly responsible for the murder, deportation, torture, and persecution of civilians in the towns of Kapsabet, Nandi Hills, Turbo, the greater Eldoret area. Sang first appeared before the Court, voluntarily, on 7 April 2011 and through the confirmation of charges hearing, which was held in conjunction with the cases against William Ruto and Joshua Sang. All the charges against Sang were confirmed by Pre-Trial Chamber II on 23 January 2012 Sang's trial began on 10 September 2013, in conjunction with the case against Joshua Sang, but the Trial Chamber vacated the charges against both accused on 5 April 2016, ending the proceedings in the case.\n\nAbdullah Senussi was indicted on 27 June 2011 on two counts of crimes against humanity in regard to the situation in Libya. As the head of military intelligence in Libya he is alleged to have planned, in conjunction with Muammar Gaddafi, the head of state, and his inner circle, formulated a plan in response to the 2011 Tunisian and Egyptian revolutions whereby Libyan state security forces under his authority were ordered to use all means necessarily to quell public protests against his regime. The plan was later implemented in the early weeks of the 2011 Libyan civil war. From 15 February 2011 until at least 28 February 2011 forces from government-organized militias, the national police, the Libyan Armed Forces, the Revolutionary Guard Corps, and other security services allegedly murdered hundreds of civilians and committed \"inhuman acts that severely deprived the civilian population of its fundamental rights\" in the cities of Ajdabiya, Bayda, Benghazi, Derna, Misrata, Tobruk, and Tripoli. Furthermore, Senussi commanded forces in and around Benghazi and \"directly instructed the troops to attack civilians demonstrating in the city\". Senussi was arrested on 17 March 2012 at Nouakchott International Airport in Mauritania after he arrived on a flight from Casablanca, Morocco with a fake Malian passport. On 5 September 2012 he was extradited to Libya. On 11 October 2013, Pre-Trial Chamber I ruled that the case against Senussi was inadmissible before the ICC because of ongoing proceedings against him in Libya. On 24 July 2014, the Appeals Chamber confirmed the decision.\n\nMahmoud al-Werfalli was indicted on 15 August 2017 on one count of a war crime in regard to the situation in Libya. As a commander of al-Saiqa, an elite unit of the Libyan National Army, he is alleged to have personally carried out or ordered the execution of 33 prisoners during the Libyan civil war since 2014. Following the 2011 Libyan civil war, in which rebels overthrew the regime of Muammar Gaddafi, the victorious armed forces splintered into various groups and began battling each other for control of Libya in 2014. Protracted hostilities took place in the city of Benghazi from October 2014 through 2017 between the Libyan National Army (LNA) and the Shura Council of Benghazi Revolutionaries. During this battle, from 3 June 2016 to 17 July 2017, al-Werfalli is alleged to have been responsible for the war crime of murder for the execution of 33 prisoners. The Court notes that seven incidents were recorded on video and circulated by al-Saiqa's social media accounts and depicted the \"exceptionally cruel, dehumanising and degrading\" killing of prisoners, who were shot at close range as they were either hooded, kneeling, or have their hands restrained. On 17 August 2017, the LNA arrested al-Werfalli and said that it was conducting an investigation of him. However, on 13 September 2017, the Office of the Prosecutor of the ICC stated that there were contradictory reports on whether he was arrested or not.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5069755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5069755", "title": "List of people who appeared on Soul Train", "text": "List of people who appeared on Soul Train\n\nThis is a list of performers who have appeared on the American musical dance program \"Soul Train\".\n\nQueen Naija\n\nIn addition to the acts on the preceding list of white, Asian, Latino, Arabic and Pacific Islander performers, \"Soul Train\" also featured performances from the following acts with mixed race personnel: \n"}
{"id": "31101744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31101744", "title": "Mansour el-Essawy", "text": "Mansour el-Essawy\n\nMansour el-Essawi (, ) is an Egyptian politician and the former minister of interior. He was appointed by Prime Minister Essam Sharaf on 5 March 2011.\n\nEl-Essawi was born in the Qena Governorate on 18 September 1937. After serving his two-year compulsory military service in an Army Engineering unit between 1955 and 1957, he was accepted into the Police Officer Training Academy. He received a law degree and a diploma in police science from the Egyptian Police College in 1959. He joined the National Police in 1959 as a commissioned officer. In 1973, he was promoted to the rank of Colonel was awarded a diploma by the Arabic Studies and Research Institute of the Arab League.\n\nOn 1 July 1983, Essawy was appointed to Brigadier and posted as a Police Inspector-General at the general administration of inspection and censorship, and then became the undersecretary of the same administration on 2 February 1986. After being promoted to Major General rank in 1987, he was appointed Director General of Police of Giza on 25 October 1988. On 2 August 1991, he was appointed assistant minister of interior for Northern Upper Egypt Zone. On 2 August 1992, he was appointed assistant minister of interior for Central Upper Egypt Zone. \n\nOn 29 October 1995, he was appointed assistant minister of interior, Director General of police of Cairo, and was put in charge of the tasks of the first assistant minister of interior for Central Zone. He finally retired from uniformed service on superannuation in early January 1996, and on 16 January 1996, he was appointed governor of Minya Governorate. \n\nThe state news agency MENA quoted Essawy as saying his priorities included reinforcing security across Egypt. Egyptian media reports said Essawy was previously the first deputy minister of security of Cairo and Giza governorates and an ex-governor of Minya Governorate. He was reported to be popular for his efforts to curb corruption. He was appointed interior minister to the interim government led by Essam Sharaf on 5 March 2011, replacing Mahmoud Wagdi. Essawi's tenure lasted until November 2011 when he resigned from office. \n\nIn 1988, Essawy was awarded the Order of Excellence first class.\n"}
{"id": "972823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=972823", "title": "Markos Moulitsas", "text": "Markos Moulitsas\n\nMarkos Moulitsas Zúniga (; born September 11, 1971), often known by his username and former military nickname \"Kos\" ( ), is the founder and publisher of Daily Kos, a blog focusing on liberal and Democratic Party politics in the United States. He co-founded SB Nation, a collection of sports blogs, which is now a part of Vox Media. He is also a weekly columnist at the Washington, D.C. newspaper \"The Hill\".\n\nMoulitsas currently resides in Berkeley, California, with his two children.\n\nMoulitsas was born in Chicago, Illinois, to a Salvadoran mother and a Greek father. He moved with his family to El Salvador in 1976, but later returned to the Chicago area in 1980 after his family fled when threats were placed on their lives by communist insurgents during the Salvadoran Civil War. As an adult, he has recounted his memories of the civil war, including an incident that occurred when he was 8 years old, in which he saw communist guerrillas murdering students who had been accused of collaborating with the government.\n\nAfter graduating from Schaumburg High School in Schaumburg, Illinois, he served in the U.S. Army from 1989 through 1992. He completed training at Ft. Sill, Oklahoma, and fulfilled his three-year enlistment as a Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS) Fire Direction Specialist while stationed in Bamberg, Germany.\n\nBy his own account, he \"missed deploying to the Gulf War by a hair.\" Moulitsas has described the Army as \"perhaps the ideal society – we worked hard but the Army took care of us in return.\"\n\nPrior to enlisting in the Army, Moulitsas was a member of the Republican Party. During the 1988 presidential election, he served as a Republican precinct captain and assisted with the re-election campaign of Illinois Congressman Henry Hyde. However, during his time in the military Moulitsas began a transition in his political philosophy that would lead him to change his party affiliation from the Republican Party to the Democratic Party.\n\nAfter leaving the army, he attended Northern Illinois University and graduated in 1996 with two bachelor's degrees, majoring in philosophy, journalism, and political science.\n\nWhile attending NIU, he wrote for the college newspaper, the Northern Star. Further illustrating the transition of his political philosophy, now a staunch supporter of gay rights, in 1993 while a freshman at NIU, he penned an opinion piece for the Northern Star when Bill Clinton was working to lift the ban on homosexuals serving in the military denouncing such efforts in starkly homophobic terms. As a writer, he also questioned NIU's policy of spending student fee money on athletic programs, generating a negative response from school officials, and waged an unsuccessful campaign to save the school's journalism program. In 2007, he was inducted into the Northern Star Hall of Fame, an honor bestowed by the newspaper's alumni association. After graduating from NIU, he attended the Boston University School of Law from 1996 to 1999, earning a J.D. degree.\n\nMoulitsas describes himself as a recovering Catholic, and says that while he has many problems with the Church, Salvadoran martyr and archbishop Óscar Romero is still his greatest hero and inspiration.\n\nAfter graduating from law school, Moulitsas moved to the San Francisco Bay Area, where he worked as a project manager at a web development shop. He founded \"Daily Kos\" in May 2002, and has managed the blog as a full-time occupation since early 2004.\n\nSince its creation Daily Kos has grown to become the largest liberal community blog in the United States, with over 2.3 million registered users and 8 million unique viewers per month as of July 2018.\n\nThe blog's popularity has attracted the attention of many Democratic senators, members of Congress, governors and candidates who have posted on the site, including Senators John Kerry and Barbara Boxer, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Speaker of the United States House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi, former President Jimmy Carter, and former President Barack Obama.\n\nDaily Kos has also spawned an annual conference. The inaugural YearlyKos was held from June 8 to 11, 2006, in Las Vegas, Nevada. Guests included Harry Reid, then-Virginia Governor Mark Warner, and Democratic National Committee chairman Howard Dean. The conference has since been renamed Netroots Nation.\n\nMoulitsas attended the California State Democratic convention in Sacramento in March 2003 with Jerome Armstrong of MyDD. According to Glenn Reynolds, founder of the conservative blog Instapundit, he, Moulitsas and Armstrong may have been the first bloggers officially accredited at a political convention.\n\nIn April 2004, Moulitsas and Daily Kos became the focus of controversy over a statement that he posted in the comments section of a blog post about Blackwater USA employees who were killed and mutilated in Fallujah:\n\nLet the people see what war is like. This isn't an Xbox game. There are real repercussions to Bush's folly. That said, I feel nothing over the death of merceneries [sic]. They aren't in Iraq because of orders, or because they are there trying to help the people make Iraq a better place. They are there to wage war for profit. Screw them.\n\nIn a blog post the next day, Moulitsas defended and clarified his remarks:\n\nMy language was harsh, and, in reality, not true. Fact is, I did feel something. That's why I was so angry. I was angry that five soldiers—the real heroes in my mind—were killed the same day and got far lower billing in the newscasts. I was angry that 51 American soldiers paid the ultimate price for Bush's folly in Iraq in March alone. I was angry that these mercenaries make more in a day than our brave men and women in uniform make in an entire month. I was angry that the US is funding private armies, paying them $30,000 per soldier, per month, while the Bush administration tries to cut our soldiers' hazard pay. I was angry that these mercenaries would leave their wives and children behind to enter a war zone on their own violition \"[sic]\". So I struck back.\"\n\nOn March 17, 2008, Moulitsas stated that Senator Hillary Clinton, who was then involved in a protracted race against Senator Barack Obama for the Democratic presidential nomination, \"doesn't deserve fairness on this site\" because she \"fails the test of the guiding principles of this site\" and because Clinton had \"no reasonable chance of victory\". He accused her of \"formenting [sic] civil war in order to overturn the will of the Democratic electorate\" and said Clinton's \"only path to victory [...] is via coup by super delegate.\"\n\nHis statement was precipitated by a \"strike\" conducted by several pro-Clinton diarists, even though none of these posters was paid or in any way officially linked to the site. Moulitsas responded directly to the \"strike\" by saying that it was more like a \"boycott\", noting that \"It's a big Internet, so I hope they find what they're looking for.\"\n\nIn 2004, Markos and Jerome Armstrong of MyDD founded BlogPAC, a political action committee focused on progressive bloggers and politics online. In 2012, he was, by some measures, the most accurate major pundit to predict the result of the presidential election.\n\nDuring the United Kingdom general election in 2005, Moulitsas was hired by the British daily newspaper \"The Guardian\" to write elections analysis for its weblog. Moulitsas was also a regular contributor to \"Newsweek\", having been hired by the magazine for its 2008 presidential campaign coverage. He has also authored three books: \"Crashing the Gate: Grassroots, Netroots, and the Rise of People-Powered Politics\" (co-written with Jerome Armstrong) and \"\".\n\nMoulitsas is a fellow at the New Politics Institute, a think tank of the New Democrat Network, which was founded by Simon Rosenberg in 1996. The NDN's stated purpose is to help elect \"centrist\" Democrats, and is considered by many to be a successor to the centrist Democratic Leadership Council (DLC), an organization that Simon Rosenberg resigned from in 1996.\n\nIn addition to political pursuits, Moulitsas co-founded SB Nation, a network of sports blogs, with Tyler Bleszinski (of Athletics Nation) in 2003. The network now covers all major American leagues (MLB, NBA, NFL, and NHL), as well as dozens of colleges and other specific sports like golf, cycling, and ultimate fighting.\n\nIn 2011, SB Nation became Vox Media and began expanding, raising capital to acquire and develop other blog networks. Vox Media now owns eight media brands covering news, lifestyle, technology, sports, and lifestyle.\n\nIn March, 2018, Moulitsas announced the launch of Civiqs, a polling and data operation that tracks opinions on candidates, issues, and elected officials.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23072030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23072030", "title": "Misty Upham", "text": "Misty Upham\n\nMisty Anne Upham (July 6, 1982 – October 5, 2014) was a Native American actress. She attracted critical acclaim for her performance in the 2008 film \"Frozen River\", for which she was nominated for an Independent Spirit Award for Best Supporting Female. She also appeared in \"\" and \"\".\n\nMisty Anne Upham was born on July 6, 1982, in Kalispell, Montana, and raised in Auburn, Washington. A Native American, she was a member of the Blackfeet Nation. She was reportedly sexually abused, assaulted and gang-raped, first as a child and then later in life as an upcoming actress in Hollywood. Both Upham and family members reported that she suffered from depression and the severe after effects of these traumas.\n\nUpham's film credits include \"Expiration Date\", \"Edge of America\", \"Skins\" and \"Skinwalkers\". In 2010, she appeared on HBO's \"Big Love\". In 2013, she played a major supporting role in Arnaud Desplechin's \"\", selected in competition for the Palme d'Or at the 66th Festival de Cannes. She played the housekeeper Johnna in \"\", and played Liz in \"Cake\".\n\nOn Sunday, October 5, 2014, Upham left her sister's apartment on the Muckleshoot Reservation in Auburn, Washington, on foot. The following weekend, her family announced via Facebook and other media that she had not been heard from since then and that they were concerned for her welfare, citing past mental health problems. A spokesman for the Auburn Police Department told CNN that police had not opened an investigation and were not regarding Upham as a missing person at that time. He confirmed that family members had contacted police on several occasions in the past year to report Upham missing but that she had been located and determined to be safe within a few days in each previous case.\n\nOn October 16, 2014, Misty Upham's body was found by a small search party organized by her family and other members of the Muckleshoot Tribe. Her body was found at the bottom of a cliff in a wooded area, just a short distance from where the family had previously searched. Members of the search party believe her death was an accident; that she fell off the cliff in the dark and that her life could have been saved had there been a prompt and thorough search. Citing lack of action on the part of the Auburn police, and alleging past abuse of Misty Upham by members of the Auburn Police Department, Upham's family released a statement that reads in part: \n\"\"But the real tragedy is this could have been prevented on a lot of levels. We pleaded with the Auburn Police to help us find Misty but Commander Stocker made the decision that Misty did not fit the criteria of the Washington State Endangered Missing Persons Plan. This became a point of contention between us and the Auburn PD. In a statement he gave to the press he said Auburn PD doesn't have any evidence that Misty is actually missing. He went on to say that Misty packed her belonging and left her apartment. This was an inaccurate statement. We believe that Commander Stocker had animosity against Misty due to a previous encounter.\"\n\"Now press reports are saying that Auburn police department found Misty. The truth is the Native American community formed a search party and found her after several days of searching without the help of the Auburn PD\"\".\n\nOn December 3, 2014, the King County Medical Examiner released a report stating Misty Upham had died of blunt-force injuries to her head and torso on October 5, 2014, the day she disappeared. The medical examiner stated that \"the manner of her death – whether by foul play, suicide or accident – could not be determined.\"\n\nIn late October, 2016, the upcoming release of a documentary on Upham was announced. \"11 Days - The Search for Misty Upham\" investigates her disappearance and death, and the search for her led by her family in what they report was the absence of police support. It is scheduled to appear at Native American film festivals, notably in the broader context of the ongoing issue of Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women (MMIW).\n\nOn October 15, 2017, in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse allegations, Upham's father, Charles Upham, went public with allegations that his daughter was raped by a member of Weinstein's production team at the same Golden Globes ceremony where she was honored, and that other members of Weinstein's team had not only witnessed the rape but had cheered the rapist on.\n\n"}
{"id": "11725065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11725065", "title": "Molly Ockett", "text": "Molly Ockett\n\nMolly Ockett (died August 2, 1816, Andover, Maine), was a Native American woman of the Abenaki nation who lived in the regions of northern New Hampshire and Maine during colonial times. Her Abenaki name meant \"Singing Bird\", but she was also baptised and given the name Mary Agatha. This was most likely pronounced as \"Molly Agat\" or \"Molly Ockett\" by Abenaki speakers.\n\nShe was born sometime between 1725 and 1744 and was said to be a daughter of the chief of her tribe. Her date of death is given as August 2, 1816.\n\nThis could be not true, but she was said to have married a minute man in the Revolutionary War by the name of Edward Marden. They had a kid who was named Edward E Marden Jr., and this is theorized because of the photo of her grandsons Nathaniel Richmond Marden and Chapin Kidder Marden. Nathaniel and Chapin look and have a lot of physical features a Native American would have. They are both tall, (Nathaniel being 6 ft and 1 in), and having curly hair.\n\nMolly was reputed to be a skilled healer and wise woman with a singular sense of humor. She was well known by European settlers in the area and her name is still attached to numerous locales in the Androscoggin River valley and surrounding territory.\n\nMolly Ockett Middle School in Fryeburg, Maine, is named after her, and Bethel, Maine, hosts an annual summer festival titled 'MollyOckett Days'.\n\n"}
{"id": "58828862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58828862", "title": "Monsters of Ecatepec", "text": "Monsters of Ecatepec\n\nThe \"Monsters of Ecatepec\" is the mediatic given to a pair of mexican serial killers conformed by Juan Carlos Hernández (1985, Lázaro Cárdenas, Michoacán) and Patricia Hernández (1980, .Lázaro Cárdenas, Michoacán). The case also received the names of \"The House of Horror\" or \"The Butchers of Ecatepec\". Active in Ecatepec de Morelos, State of Mexico, from 2012 to 2018. The pair are suspected to have commited between 10 and 20 murders, and have also confessed to cannibalize the bodies of their victims . The pair were apprehended on October 4th, 2018 when transporting human remains in a baby stroller.\n\nThey were both born in Lázaro Cárdenas, Michoacán, within a five year age gap. Juan Carlos'  mother was a single mother, allegedly she often dressed him as a girl, brought men to her house and forced her son to watch her sexual encounters. Also, he declared that in his childhood he suffered sexual abuse by another woman who at the time was his caretaker. When he was 10 years-old he fell from the stairs and suffered a severe traumatic brain injury. Patricia Martínez was born in a poor family, and was manipulative. She was diagnosed with a border intelligence disorder linked to intellectual disability. She was a prostitute at the time.\n\nThe couple met in 2008, when Patricia worked as waitress in a restaurant from the State of Mexico, of which Juan Carlos was a regular client. They initiated a relationship and, although he presumed to be an \"assassin\", she decided to move with him. The couple procreated four children during their 10 year realtionship. They opened a family business where they sold clothing, perfume and cellphones.\n\nTheir first victim, according to Patricia's declaration, was a 22-year-old woman who Juan Carlos lured with job promises. In their house, Hernández conducted her to their bathroom where he raped, beheaded and dismembered her. Martínez kept their children outside the house while the murder occurred. After the murder, Martínez partially cooked the body and ate it with her husband. Their second victim was a teen girl who lived next to them, who suffered an inhalants addiction , they allegedly lured her with promises of wealth. Like the first victim she was also raped, beheaded and dismembered in their bathroom. Patricia cooked the victim's body in chilli.\n"}
{"id": "1027053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1027053", "title": "Nora Barnacle", "text": "Nora Barnacle\n\nNora Barnacle (21 March 1884 – 10 April 1951) was the muse and wife of Irish author James Joyce.\n\nBarnacle and Joyce had their first romantic assignment on a date celebrated worldwide as the ‘Bloomsday’ of his modernist novel \"Ulysses\", a book that she did not, however, enjoy. Their sexually explicit letters have aroused much curiosity, especially as Joyce normally disapproved of coarse language, and they fetch high prices at auction. \n\nBarnacle was played by Susan Lynch in the 1999 bio-pic \"Nora\".\n\nBarnacle was born in Galway workhouse on 21 March 1884. Her entry in the birth register, which gives her first name as \"Norah\", is dated 22 March. Her father, Thomas Barnacle, a baker in Connemara, was an illiterate man who was 38 years old when she was born. Her mother, Annie Honoria Healy, was 28 and worked as a dressmaker.\n\nBetween 1886 and 1889, Barnacle's parents sent her to live with her maternal grandmother, Catherine Mortimer Healy. During these years, she began studies at a convent, eventually graduating from a national school in 1891. In 1896, Barnacle completed her schooling and began to work as a porteress and laundress. In the same year, her mother threw her father out for drinking and the couple separated. Barnacle went to live with her mother and her uncle, Tom Healy, at 4 Bowling Green, Galway.\n\nIn 1896, at age 12, Barnacle fell in love with a teenager named Michael Feeney, who died soon after of typhoid and pneumonia. In a dramatic coincidence, another boy she loved, Michael Bodkin, died in 1900 – causing some of her friends to call her \"man-killer.\" Joyce later based the final short story in \"Dubliners\", \"The Dead\", on these incidents. It was rumoured that she sought comfort from her friend, budding English theatre starlet, Laura London, who introduced her to a Protestant named Willie Mulvagh. In 1903, she left Galway after her uncle learned of the affair and friendship, and went to Dublin where she worked as a chambermaid at Finn's Hotel (later the name of the hotel was used as the title for a posthumously-published collection of ten short narrative pieces written by Joyce, \"Finn's Hotel\", in 2013).\n\nBarnacle met Joyce on 10 June 1904 while still in Dublin and they had their first romantic liaison on 16 June. Joyce later chose 16 June 1904 as the date for the setting for his novel \"Ulysses\" and the date has come to be known and celebrated around the world as Bloomsday. The 1904 rendezvous began a long relationship that eventually led to marriage in 1931 and continued until Joyce's death.\n\nBarnacle's and Joyce's relationship was complex. They had different personalities, tastes and cultural interests. Of their first meeting, she recalled: \"I mistook him for a Swedish sailor – His electric blue eyes, yachting cap and plimsolls. But when he spoke, well then, I knew him at once for just another Dublin jackeen chatting up a country girl.\" The numerous erotic letters they exchanged suggest they loved each other passionately. These are also of interest because of Joyce’s lifelong dislike of swearing and crude language. Joyce seems to have admired and trusted her, and Barnacle clearly loved Joyce and trusted him enough to agree to leave Ireland with him for the Continent. In anticipation of the move to Paris, she began studying French and Barnacle cooked English puddings at Joyce's request during their travels.\n\nIn 1904, Barnacle and Joyce left Ireland for continental Europe and the following year set up house in Trieste (at that time in Austria-Hungary). On 27 June 1905, Nora Barnacle gave birth to a son, Giorgio and later to a daughter, Lucia, on 26 July 1907. A miscarriage in 1908 coincided with the beginning of a difficult time for both. Though she remained by his side, and the couple were legally married in London in 1931, she complained to her sister both about his personal qualities and his writings.\n\nIn these letters to her sister, she said he drank too much and wasted too much money. As for his literary activity, she lamented that his writings were obscure and lacking in sense. She was always fiercely proud of him, although she occasionally expressed impatience at his meetings with other artists and admitted she would have preferred him had he been a musician—in his youth, he was a talented singer—rather than a writer.\n\nLucia's mental illness, which became acute in the early 1930s, posed another challenge to the couple's relationship. Nora believed the condition required hospitalisation, which Joyce opposed. They brought in many specialists, and Lucia was for a time the patient of Carl Jung. She was diagnosed with schizophrenia and admitted to a clinic in 1936. Her father visited her there often, but not her mother. As Nora's biographer Brenda Maddox recorded, 'Lucia was rarely out of Nora's mind. Because she had aroused Lucia's most florid schizophrenic reactions, Nora was not allowed to accompany Joyce on his ritual Sunday afternoon visits to Ivry. Not only did this exclude her from any contact with her daughter, it also required her to spend much of each week arranging for someone to accompany Joyce, who could not easily go alone... Joyce liked to portray himself as safe from Lucia's violence, as if he was the only other permitted inhabitant of her private world. Yet once when Giorgio went with his father, Lucia saw them and cried, 'Che bello! Che bello!' then lunged and tried to strangle them.' As Maddox also noted, 'There is no record that Nora ever saw her daughter again.'\n\nAfter Joyce's death in Zurich in 1941, Nora decided to remain there. She died in Zurich of acute renal failure in 1951, at age 67.\n\nIn 1988, Nora Barnacle was the subject of a biography by Brenda Maddox, \"Nora: A Biography of Nora Joyce\".\n\nThis in turn was made into a film in 1999, directed by Pat Murphy and starring Susan Lynch and Ewan McGregor.\n\nIn 2004, an erotic letter from Joyce to Barnacle sold at Sotheby's for £240,800, a record amount for a modern-day letter at auction.\n\n"}
{"id": "48890803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48890803", "title": "Norman Hilberry", "text": "Norman Hilberry\n\nNorman Hilberry (March 11, 1899 – March 28, 1986) was an American physicist, best known as the director of the Argonne National Laboratory from 1956 to 1961. In December 1942 he was the man who stood ready with an axe to cut the scram line during the start up of Chicago Pile-1, the world's first nuclear reactor to achieve criticality.\n\nHorace van Norman Hilberry was born in Cleveland, Ohio, on March 11, 1899. He received his Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) degree from Oberlin College in 1921, and then became an assistant in physics at the University of Chicago. In 1925 he became an instructor in physics at Washington Square College in New York, where he rose to become an assistant professor in 1928. He earned his Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) from the University of Chicago in 1941, writing his thesis on \"Extensive cosmic-ray showers and the energy distribution of the primary cosmic rays\".\n\nIn 1941, Hilberry joined what would become the Manhattan Project, the effort to create an atomic bomb during World War II. He moved to the University of Chicago to help Arthur H. Compton in any way possible. Hilberry became associate director of Compton's Metallurgical Project. On December 2, 1942, he was present for the start up of Chicago Pile-1, the world's first nuclear reactor to achieve criticality. Because of fears that the reaction could \"run away\", Hilberry stood ready with an axe to cut the scram line, a manila rope connected to control rods that could quickly shut the reactor down. He was also present for the start-up of the X-10 Graphite Reactor in November 1943, and the reactors at the Hanford Engineer Works the following year. He returned to the Metallurgical Laboratory in Chicago in 1945.\n\nHilberry became assistant director of the Metallurgical Laboratory in 1943. On July 1, 1946, the Metallurgical Laboratory became Argonne National Laboratory, the first designated National Laboratory, with Walter Zinn as director, and Hilberry as associate director. He became the deputy director in 1949, and the director in June 1956, on Zinn's departure. He was the first director of Argonne's International School of Nuclear Science and Engineering, an important part of the Eisenhower Administration's Atoms for Peace program, from 1955 to 1956. He stepped down in November 1961, and was replaced by Albert Crewe. He remained at Argonne as a senior scientist until 1964, when he accepted an appointment as Professor of Nuclear Engineering at the University of Arizona. He retired and became a professor emeritus in 1985.\n\nHilberry was the recipient of the American Nuclear Society's Arthur Holly Compton Award, and received a citation for meritorious service from the Atomic Energy Commission. He was president of the American Nuclear Society from 1965 to 1966. He was a member of the board of directors of the Atomic Industry Forum from 1961 to 1968, of the Advisory Committee on US Policy Toward the International Atomic Energy Agency in 1962, and of the National Academy of Sciences' Advisory Committee to the United States Office of Emergency Preparedness from 1968 to 1973.\n\nHe died from complications arising from influenza on March 28, 1986, at the Humana Desert Hospital in Phoenix, Arizona. He was survived by his wife Ann and daughter Joan. His papers are in the University of Chicago Library.\n\n"}
{"id": "28880092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28880092", "title": "Olga Kudrina", "text": "Olga Kudrina\n\nOlga Dmitrievna Kudrina (c. 1890-1944) was a shamaness among the Reindeer Evenki of northern Inner Mongolia along the Amur River's Great Bend (today under the jurisdiction of Genhe, Hulunbuir). She was accepted as an arbiter between the various Reindeer Evenki groups, helping to defuse conflicts between families when a member of one murdered a member of the other; after her death, the egalitarian hunters were left with no widely accepted shaman or other authority figure, and conflicts among them escalated into a chain of serious cases of blood revenge.\n\nThe Reindeer Evenki comprise three groups: the Mohe, Cigančen, and Three-River (Gunačen). Originally, Filipp Vasil’evič Sologon was the shaman of the Mohe group, while Kudrina belonged to the Gunačen in the south. She came from a family of shamans; her grandmother, uncle Vasilij Jakovlevič Kudrin, and cousin Innokentij Ivanovič Kudrin were all shamans. It was common for many shamans to come from the same family; however, the position was not necessarily transmitted lineally.\n\nKudrina's responsibilities as a shamaness included aiding in the hunt, curing the sick, and watching over the souls of the deceased; she was required to be knowledgeable about spirits and religion. She started on the path to becoming a shamaness in 1923, in a dream in which she claimed to have seen the spirit of her predecessor and received his knowledge. During this time she was reported to have gone deep into the forest, remaining there for two weeks without fire or food.\n\nSologon died in 1942, leading Kudrina to take over responsibility for his group. This meant that she had to make arduous treks over the Greater Khingan mountains to reach the hunting grounds of the Mohe group. Conflicts broke out more frequently in these years due to the Japanese occupation, pitting pro-Japanese Evenki against anti-Japanese Evenki; in 1944, about fifty people from the Mohe group fled back to Russia as a result. Kudrina died later that same year, leaving behind two other shamans: her cousin Kudrin, and Njura Kaltakun, neither of whom had widely accepted authority among all the groups. Blood revenge spread after her death, but older hunters made efforts to halt the cycle, seeing the threat it posed to their survival as an ethnic group, and Kaltakun would finally be able to bring the blood feuds to a halt in the early 1950s.\n\nKudrina had no children of her own. She was survived by her adopted son, Victor Kudrin. She also took Anatolij Makarovič Kajgorodov (1927–1998), a member of a Russian Cossack family with whom the Reindeer Evenki frequently traded, as a godson; he would go on to become a well-known ethnographer of the Tungusic peoples.\n\n"}
{"id": "51817084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51817084", "title": "Patrick Drew McDaniel", "text": "Patrick Drew McDaniel\n\nPatrick Drew McDaniel is an American computer scientist. He is a William L. Weiss Professor of Information and Communications Technology in the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and the Director of the Institute for Networking and Security Research at the Pennsylvania State University. He has made several contributions in the areas of computer security, operating systems, and computer networks. McDaniel is best known for his work in mobile security as well as in electronic voting security, digital piracy prevention, and cellular networks. In recognition of his contributions and service to the scientific community, he was named IEEE Fellow and ACM Fellow. Prior to joining Penn State in 2004, he was a senior research staff member at AT&T Labs. He obtained his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of Michigan, under the supervision of Atul Prakash.\n\n\nPatrick McDaniel's research interests span a wide range of topics from computer security to technical public policy. He is the author and co-author of several patents, books, and technical papers.\n\nWhile he was a Senior Research Staff Member at AT&T Laboratories, McDaniel contributed to a joint study with the University of Pennsylvania on the source of unauthorized movie copies. The study presented an analysis of the availability and characteristics of popular movies in file sharing networks. They used a dataset of 312 popular movies and found that seventy-seven percent of these samples appear to have been leaked by an industry insider.\n\nMcDaniel and his team assessed the security of electronic voting systems used in Ohio. On December 14, 2007, Ohio Secretary of State Jennifer Brunner released the results of a comprehensive review of her state's electronic voting technology. The study, called Project EVEREST: Evaluation and Validation of Election-Related Equipment, Standards and Testing, examined electronic voting systems – both touch-screen and optical scan – from Election Systems & Software, Hart InterCivic, and Premier Election Systems. As part of that study, three teams of security researchers, based at the Pennsylvania State University, the University of Pennsylvania, and WebWise Security, Inc., conducted the security reviews. The reviews began in September 2007 and concluded on December 7, 2007, with the delivery of the final report. The teams had access to voting machines and software source code from the three vendors and performed source code analysis and security penetration testing with the aim of identifying security problems that might affect the integrity of elections that use the equipment.\n\nMcDaniel and his team designed tools for adding security features to existing smartphone operating systems in order to protect users against malicious or poorly designed application software. This effort has spanned projects in: systems design, policy, and program analysis.\n\nThe well-known TaintDroid system is designed to track and identify smartphone privacy risks created by downloaded application software. TaintDroid uses dynamic taint analysis to track privacy-sensitive information from their sources (e.g., GPS hardware, microphone, phone identifier storage, etc.application-provider) to the point at which it leaves the phone through a wireless network interface. The follow-up projects Saint and Kirin are designed to provide enhanced application-provider specified security policy and to evaluate the privileges requested by applications when they are installed.\n\nLong held in logical and physical isolation from other systems, telecommunications networks and other pieces of critical infrastructure are rapidly being assimilated into the Internet. Today, systems including the electrical grid and traffic systems are accessible to users, regardless of their location, with a few clicks of a mouse. McDaniel demonstrated that with the bandwidth available to most cable modems, an adversary can launch attacks capable of denying voice service to cellular telecommunications networks in major cities. In times of emergency, when such computer networks are essential in saving lives, such attacks can be extremely dangerous. McDaniel proposed defenses to mitigate such vulnerabilities, as well as a variety of other related vulnerabilities that were discovered in cellular networks.\n"}
{"id": "7567078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7567078", "title": "Phill Wilson", "text": "Phill Wilson\n\nPhill Wilson (born April 22, 1956) founded the Black AIDS Institute in 1999 and served as its CEO and is a prominent African-American HIV/AIDS activist.\n\nPhill Wilson's career in activism started after he and his partner, Chris Brownlie, were both diagnosed with HIV in the early 1980s. This was at a time when the AIDS epidemic was just starting in the United States, and Wilson has said he did not feel like anyone was bringing together the black community to solve the problem. The country believed that AIDS was a gay disease, and outreach was primarily focused in white, gay communities, when Wilson believed that AIDS affected the black community much more. When his partner died of an HIV-related illness in 1989, Wilson channeled his grief into activism.\n\nIn 1981, Wilson was already involved in the gay community in Chicago through sports activities and social activities. He attended Illinois Wesleyan University, where he got his B.A. in theater and Spanish. When he graduated, he moved to Los Angeles in 1982, and got involved in the National Association of Black and White Men Together. His first jump into the activist lifestyle came in 1983, when he read the poem \"Where will you be when they come?\" at a candlelight vigil for AIDS victims, which he also helped organize.\n\nAfter organizing the candlelight vigil in 1983, Wilson began working as the Director of Policy and Planning for the AIDS Project in Los Angeles. During this time he was also the AIDS Coordinator for Los Angeles. From 1990 to 1995, Wilson served as the co-chair of the Los Angeles HIV Health Commission. In 1995, he became a member of the HRSA AIDS Advisory Committee. Wilson took a break from work in 1997, when his disease became too immobilizing. Wilson went back to work in 1999, when he founded the Black AIDS Institute. In 2010, Wilson became appointed to President Obama's Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS, becoming the co-chair of the disparities subcommittee. During his career, Wilson has also worked as a World AIDS Summit delegate. Also during his career, he, along with other Black AIDS activists, \"urged the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to provide additional funding to African American groups eager to educate and mobilize their community around HIV/AIDS issues. The result was the announcement of a 5-year domestic 'Act Against AIDS' campaign that resulted in 14 Blacks organizations, including the National Newspaper Publishers Association, being awarded grants to hire an AIDS coordinator to expand their work.\"\n\nWilson has said that when he dies, he hopes people will remember him for not giving up. His biggest fear is that the black community will give up fighting against this disease.\n\nWilson has published articles in The New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, LA Weekly, Essence, Ebony, Vibe, and Jet and POZ.\n\nIn 1999 Wilson was inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame. In 2001, he was given the Leadership for a Changing World award by the Ford Foundation. In 2004, he was the recipient of the Discovery Health Channel Medical Honor. He was also \"named one of the '2005 Black History Makers in the Making' by Black Entertainment Television.\" Wilson also received the Delta Spirit Award from the Delta Sigma Theta Los Angeles chapter. In July 2016, it was announced he would win GLAD Legal Advocates & Defenders’ 2016 Spirit of Justice Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "38469687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38469687", "title": "Rafi ibn Harthama", "text": "Rafi ibn Harthama\n\nRāfi‘ ibn Harthama (died 896) was a mercenary soldier who in the turmoils of the late 9th century became ruler of Khurasan from 882 to 892.\n\nRafi was originally in the service of the Tahirid dynasty, which controlled Khurasan as virtual viceroys in the name of the Abbasid Caliphate. Tahirid (and implicitly also Abbasid) control of Khurasan was challenged in the 860s by the revolt of Ya'qub al-Saffar, who, beginning from his home province of Sistan, defeated the Tahirid armies and by 873 had seized the provincial capital, Nishapur. The failure of Ya'qub to seize Baghdad in 876, however, and his death soon after weakened the Saffarid regime that his brother Amr ibn al-Layth inherited.\nWith the Saffarids engaged elsewhere, and their takeover of the former Tahirid domains condemned as illegal by the Abbasid government, Nishapur was seized in 875 by an anti-Saffarid faction under Ahmad ibn Abdallah al-Khujistani, a former Tahirid soldier. After his murder in 882, Rafi, who had risen to be his commander-in-chief, was acclaimed by al-Khujistani's army as his successor. Rafi faced the opposition of the Saffarids under Amr, who had made his peace with the caliph in 879 and been recognized as governor of Khurasan and most of Iran, as well as the adventurer Abu Talha Mansur ibn Sharkab, who had briefly seized Nishapur in 876–878 and was now ruler of Merv. Defeated, Abu Talha soon sought Samanid and Saffarid aid, and in 885 he was appointed as the Saffarid deputy for Khurasan, while Amr turned again west to confront the attempts of the Abbasid regent, al-Muwaffaq, to recover Fars.\n\nAt this point, Rafi's fortunes changed, as al-Muwaffaq stripped the Saffarids of their governorships, and conferred Khurasan on Rafi. Rafi was now able to secure an alliance with the Samanids of Transoxiana and neutralize Abu Talha, seizing Merv and Herat. He raided as far as Khwarezm in 886 and aided the Samanid Isma'il ibn Ahmad against his brother Nasr I. In 888/889 Rafi invaded and conquered the Zaydid domains of Gurgan and Tabaristan, defeating the Zaydid ruler Muhammad ibn Zayd in battle at the Chalus River. From Tabaristan he marched to Qazvin and then Rayy in 889/890, where he established his headquarters until al-Muwaffaq's death in June 891. During his stay in Tabaristan, Rafi was joined by Ali ibn al-Layth, Amr's brother, who had initially been the favoured candidate to succeed Ya'qub. Ali's sons, al-Mu'addal and al-Layth, would later accompany Rafi in his attempt to regain control of Khurasan in 896.\n\nWith the death of al-Muwaffaq and the rise to the regency (and soon to the throne) of his son, al-Mu'tadid, Rafi's fortunes changed again: al-Mu'tadid's policy of re-establishing caliphal authority in the western Caliphate required him to maintain friendly relations with Amr ibn al-Layth in Iran, and Rafi's control of Rayy threatened the province of Jibal, which al-Mu'tadid soon recovered from its semi-independent Dulafid governors. As a result, al-Mu'tadid invested Amr with the governorship of Khurasan, ordered Rafi to evacuate Rayy, and sent an army under Ahmad ibn Abd al-Aziz ibn Abi Dulaf against him. Evicted from Rayy, in order to gain allies for an attempt to recover Khurasan, Rafi reconciled himself with Muhammad ibn Zayd, to the extent that he had the Friday prayer read in the latter's name. This turn towards the Alids marked a public break with the Abbasid and Sunni camp, which the Saffarids exploited accordingly to bolster their support among the populace of Khurasan. In 896, Rafi invaded Khurasan and captured Nishapur, where too he had the prayer read in Muhammad's name. He even adopted Alid white instead of Abbasid black for his colours. The help promised by Muhammad ibn Zayd, however, never arrived, and Rafi was soon expelled from the city by the Saffarids. His forces were defeated at Bayhaq and Tus, and finally driven out of Khurasan to Khwarazm, where Rafi was defeated and killed in a final battle. His severed head was dispatched to Baghdad.\n\n"}
{"id": "12423224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12423224", "title": "Ramzan Paskayev", "text": "Ramzan Paskayev\n\nRamzan Paskayev () (born March 16, 1947 in Taraz, Kazakhstan) is a Chechen accordionist and folk musician. He is regarded by many as the contemporary successor to late Chechen accordionist Umar Dimayev.\n\nPaskayev was born in Taraz to Chechen parents on March 16, 1947. His family been sent to Kazakhstan as a result of the forced deportations of the Chechens and Ingush to Central Asia on February 23, 1944. Ramzan's father Sultan worked as a truck driver and gathered wheat on a collective farm to help support his family. Sultan had managed to bring a German accordion from his home in Chechnya, and during evenings the young Ramzan would constantly bother his father to play the accordion out of curiosity.\n\nHowever, Paskayev recalls that the greatest influence on his career would be the songs of the legendary Chechen accordionist Umar Dimayev: Umar had managed to perform on radio stations in Kazakhstan, and although the radio transmissions would last barely fifteen minutes, the exiled Chechens would gather at the homes of radio owners to listen to Umar's broadcasts. His folk songs reminded the Chechen people of their lost homeland, which the bereaved Chechens longed to return to. At the end of the transmission, the men would hide their wet eyes, and the mothers cried quietly. Ramzan would later speak of Dimayev's music: \"They were philosophical tones. Nothing like it in the Chechen folk art exists. Umar Dimayev remained an unbeatable virtuoso. That was the time when I had developed a strong desire to become like Dimayev. Now I realize that no one can match him.\"\n\nBy the mid-1950s, De-Stalinization had allowed the Chechens and Ingush to return to their native homelands, and the Paskayev family moved to Grozny, the Chechen capital. Throughout his youth, Ramzan had developed his musical abilities, and in 1960 the young Ramzan was invited into the House of Folklore amateur ensemble. He worked in the ensemble writing melodies, and had decided to receive a vocational education from that group. Also during his youth, Ramzan met with his idol, Umar Dimayev: Dimayev handed Ramzan his accordion, and although Ramzan's feet couldn't yet touch the ground when he sat on his chair, Ramzan surprised the entire audience with his small performance. Umar declared, \"He will inevitably become an accordionist.\" From their encounter, Ramzan later recalled, \"His face showed a gracious smile. I think he had realized that I had copied his style.\" \n\nIn 1962 Paskayev was invited to speak at Baikal TV, and after delivering his speech he became widely known throughout the Chechen-Ingush ASSR. He spent much of his youth performing with adults, and wasn't seen playing with other children. That year he also performed at the Great Kremlin Palace and met with Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev. The following year, Ramzan was also invited into the \"Vaynah\" dance ensemble.\n\nIn 1967 Paskayev was called to active duty in the ranks of the Soviet Red Army. However, he was transferred to a\nmilitary garrison ensemble after the intervention of fellow musician Aslan Gugiev. Afterwards Ramzan would enroll in a professional education at a college in Grozny and then the Krasnodar Institute of Culture. He would join an orchestra, and work there until 1983, when he would return to \"Vaynah\". \n\nWith the start of the First Chechen War Paskayev would move with his family to Moscow. He later commented, \"I moved to Moscow from despair. Here, my creativity has become a facelift. As an adult, I became aware that the music is the foundation of our people. Without music, life is impossible. It must rally people to help us live and build. Living in Moscow, I issued six discs. And I realized that was responsible for our musical heritage. Folk art is a very serious genre, and it must be handled with care. During the war years, we lost all music. Many unique records were destroyed, which had its historical value. They simply burned, crushed. It is necessary to restore and re-write the wealth of musical collection that we had.\"\n\nRamzan Paskayev is highly regarded by many Chechens for his ability to remember countless Chechen folk tunes by heart, which are regarded as the cornerstone of the restoration of Chechen music. He had groomed his son Ruslan, also a talented accordionist, to follow in his footsteps, but on October 12, 2004, Ruslan, a university student in Grozny, was found dead in the nearby village of Kalinina. His corpse showed signs of blows and tortures, and he had been shot in the head. Ruslan's murder was touted as another example of extrajudicial execution by Russian forces.\n\nCurrently, Paskayev writes music, and was assisted by the late Said Dimayev. His works are included in the repertoires of orchestras in Dagestan, Kabardino-Balkaria, and North Ossetia, and is regarded as one of the best musicians of Chechnya.\n\n"}
{"id": "23930745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23930745", "title": "Richard Henry Walthew", "text": "Richard Henry Walthew\n\nRichard Henry Walthew, also known as Richard H. Walthew (4 November 187214 November 1951) was an English composer and pianist.\n\nRichard Henry Walthew was born in Islington in Middlesex, the only son of Richard Frederick Walthew and his wife, Emily the daughter of Charles Jeffreys Esq. He was a pupil of Hubert Parry for four years at the Royal College of Music (1890–1894). He taught the opera class at the Guildhall School of Music and from 1907 was Professor of Music at The Queen's College, Oxford.\n\nWalthew had a natural affinity for chamber music and a long association with the South Place Sunday Concert series for which he wrote programme notes. He conducted the orchestra there and it was also where much of his chamber music was played. He also gave a series of lectures on the history and development of chamber music there; these lectures were published by Boosey and Co. in 1909. He played at many of these concerts as did his son, the clarinettist Richard Sidney Walthew. In the article on Walthew in Cobbett's \"Cyclopaedic Survey of Chamber Music\" (1929), Thomas Dunhill recorded his admiration for the refined, lyrical and unostentatious style of Walthew's writing, the suitability of his compositions for amateur performance, his special aptitude for writing for the piano and his energetic devotion to chamber music.\n\nHis most successful work was the \"Phantasy-Quintet\" for piano, violin, viola, cello and double bass. It was commissioned by the Worshipful Company of Musicians, dedicated to Walter Cobbett and published by Stainer and Bell in 1912. It was performed by the composer at the momentous marathon thousandth South Place Sunday Concert in February 1927.\n\nWalthew died, aged 79, in East Preston, West Sussex.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44929225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44929225", "title": "Samuel Gilburne", "text": "Samuel Gilburne\n\nSamuel Gilburne (fl. 1605, d. after 1623) was an Elizabethan actor who is listed as one of the \"Principall Actors\" in the prefatory material of the First Folio of William Shakespeare's plays. Gilburne is named as a former apprentice to Augustine Phillips, another member of Shakespeare's company, in Phillips' will dated 4 May 1605, in which Gilburne is bequeathed 40 shillings, Phillips's \"mouse-colored\" velvet hose, his black taffeta suit and white taffeta doublet, his purple cloak, his sword and dagger, and his bass viol. A copy of the First Folio held at the Folger Shakespeare Library has a signature thought to be Gilburne's.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3605462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3605462", "title": "Sarel Cilliers", "text": "Sarel Cilliers\n\nCharl (Sarel) Arnoldus Cilliers (7 September 1801 – 4 October 1871) was a Voortrekker leader and a preacher. With Andries Pretorius, he led the Boers to a huge victory over the Zulus at the Battle of Blood River in 1838. In particular, Cilliers lead the Voortrekkers in a vow which promised that if God would protect them and deliver the enemy into their hands, they would build a church and commemorate the day of their victory as if it were an annual Sabbath day, which their descendants would also be instructed to honour.\n\nHe was a prominent member of the \"Gereformeerde Kerk\" (Reformed Church), an offshoot of the Dutch Reformed Church. He is described as being a short, stout man, and was believed to have been very religious. He joined the Great Trek at the age of thirty-five.\n\nThe town of Kroonstad was, according to folklore, named after a horse belonging to Cilliers, which drowned in a stream (Kroonspruit) where the town is situated.\n\nThere is a Sarel Cilliers Museum as well as a statue of him (on the site of the Dutch Reformed Church) in Kroonstad. Numerous streets and roads in Kroonstad and throughout South Africa are named after him.\n\nSarel Cilliers was born the fourth of seven children in Schoongezicht, Cape Colony to Carel Cilliers and his wife, Elizabeth Catherine Louw. In 1806 his parents sold Schoongezicht, when Cilliers was five years of age.\n\nFrom an early age he was well-acquainted with working life on the family farm, as he would often help with pastoral and elementary responsibilities. In his early life, he also developed a strong sense of community and religious duty. On Sundays, the neighbours gathered together to hold services and Holy Communion. It was in his childhood that Cilliers's religious values and aptitude for spiritual leadership were first developed, as he was said to have had a personal encounter with God at age 10. He would often share his faith with other children and encourage them to worship, and strengthen their bond with God.\n\nOn 6 October 1823, Cilliers married Anna Francina Viljoen, the daughter of Christopher and Aletta Viljoen Booysen. Cilliers fathered eleven children from his marriage to Anna. During his younger years, Cilliers was of a slim build, and it was only later in his life around the time of the Great Trek that he became stouter in appearance.\n\nIn 1829, the Cilliers family moved to New Hantam (today Colesberg). In 1835, a drought hit the local area, and this led to Cilliers joining the Great Trek with his wife and six children in 1836, as he was convinced that it was God's will that he should go.\n\nCilliers was made the unofficial pastor of the Great Trek, and he would hold services on a daily basis and give Sunday Communion. During the Great Trek he became distinguished as a spiritual leader, earning him such names as \"The Prophet of the Great Trek\" and \"The Father of Dingaansdag (Dingane's Day)\". In 1837, he was appointed to one of the two deacons of the first church council elected in the commissioned commandos.\n\nRenowned for his ability of boosting the morale of members of the Great Trek during times of hardship, he would often inspire troops through his recital of the Lord's Prayer during conflict. His skills of fortifying the troops were best displayed at the Battle of Blood River, where he spoke the famous vow to God on the battlefield, and held a thanksgiving service after the decisive victory over the Zulus. Cilliers' vow was celebrated as a national holiday in South Africa (Day of the Vow) on 16 December until 1994.\n\nNo verbatim record of the vow exists. The version often considered to be the original vow is in fact W.E.G. Louw's ca. 1962 translation into Afrikaans of G.B.A. Gerdener's reconstruction of the vow in his 1919 biography of Sarel Cilliers.\n\nThe official journal of the emigrant Boers' punitive expedition against Dingane and his Zulus was published in De Zuid-Afrikaan of Friday 14 June 1839.\n\nThe following entry for Sunday 9 December 1838 cites the vow as proposed by Andreas Pretorius:\n\"Sondag, 9 Desember 1838 Des anderen daags, zynde de 9e, was alles nog rustig, en wy bleven hier over, om de Sabbath te vieren; terwyl ook de vorige Zaterdag avond, in de tent van de Hoofd-Kommandant, werd doorgebragt met 't zingen van enige gepaste liederen, en 'n kragtig gebed, door de heer Cilliers gedaan. \nAflê van die Gelofte Des Zondags morgens, vóordat de godsdienst begon, liet de Hoofd-Kommandant degenen (Cilliers, Landman en Joubert - see below) die de godsdienst zouden verrigten, by malkander komen, en verzocht hen, met de gemeente te spreken, dat zy allen volyverig in geest en in waarheid, tot God mogten bidden, om Zyne hulp en bystand, in het slaan tegen de vyand; dat hy aan de Almagtigen 'n gelofte doen wilde, (indien allen wel willen), - \"om zo de Heere ons de overwinning geven mogt, 'n Huis tot zyns Grote Naams gedagtenis te stichten alwaar het Hem zal behagen,\" - en dat zy ook moesten afsmeken, de hulp en bystand van God, om deze gelofte zeker te kunnen volbrengen, en dat wy de dag der overwinning, in 'n boek zullen aantekenen, om dezelve bekend te maken, zelfs aan onze laatste nageslachten, opdat het ter Eere van God gevierd mag worden.\n\nThe three morning services were led by three men:\nDe heeren Cilliers, Landman en Joubert, waren opgeruimd in het gemoed, om zulks te horen; zy onderhielden hunne gemeentens hierover en verkregen hunne algemene toestemming.\n\nToen hierna de godsdienst onderscheidelik begon, nam de heer Cilliers dezelve in de tent van de Hoofd-Kommandant waar. Hy begon met het (laten) zingen uit Psalm 38 vers 12, 16, deed vervolgens het voorgebed, en sprak over de eerste 24 verzen van het 6e Kapittel uit Judicum of de Richteren; besloot vervolgens met het gebed, waarin de belofte voormeld aan God werd gedaan, en 'n krachtige smeking, om Gods hulp en bystand, in het volbrengen derzelve. Er werd weder gezongen, de 12e en 21e verzen van voorm. 38e Psalm, en hy besloot de godsdienst, door het zingen van Psalm 134. \nNa de middag werd weder 'n byeenkomst gehouden, en men zong verscheidene toepasselike verzen; de heer Cilliers maakte weder 'n aanspraak, en verrigte het openbare gebed; op welke wyze, ook de avond werd doorgebracht.\"\n\nOn 14 June 1839 his journal was published as a bilingual leaflet in De Zuid-Afrikaan, Cape Town; Dutch original on one side and the English translation on the other side.\n\nThe wording of the Vow is:\n\nAfrikaans: \"Hier staan ons voor die Heilige God van hemel en aarde om ŉ gelofte aan Hom te doen, dat, as Hy ons sal beskerm en ons vyand in ons hand sal gee, ons die dag en datum elke jaar as ŉ dankdag soos ŉ Sabbat sal deurbring; en dat ons ŉ huis tot Sy eer sal oprig waar dit Hom behaag, en dat ons ook aan ons kinders sal sê dat hulle met ons daarin moet deel tot nagedagtenis ook vir die opkomende geslagte. Want die eer van Sy naam sal verheerlik word deur die roem en die eer van oorwinning aan Hom te gee.\"\n\nEnglish: \"Here we stand before the holy God of heaven and earth, to make a vow to Him that, if He will protect us and give our enemy into our hand, we shall keep this day and date every year as a day of thanksgiving like a sabbath, and that we shall erect a house to His honour wherever it should please Him, and that we also will tell our children that they should share in that with us in memory for future generations. For the honour of His name will be glorified by giving Him the fame and honour for the victory.\"\n\nAfter the victory at the Battle of Blood River, The Voortrekkers moved to Pietermaritzburg, and Cilliers moved to a farm in Welgevonden (now Colbourn), about north of Howick in Natal. By selling timber from the trees on his farm he was able to make a good income.\n\nCilliers served in the Natalia Republic's first House of Assembly. As a member of Council, Cilliers played a large part in the creation of the Covenant Church in Pietermaritzburg in 1839. In 1843, after the British annexation of Natal, Cilliers withdrew from political life, maintaining an important role as an elder of the church.\n\nIn 1847, Cilliers sold his farm and moved to the Orange Free State. Here he settled on the farm Doornkloof, in the Lindley district, where he allegedly built his homestead single-handedly. His wife was buried here at the time of her death in 1852. On 15 May 1854, he married Aletta Elizabeth Loots – a thirty-three-year-old widow with whom he had one son.\n\nDuring the final years of his life, Cilliers was often ill. He died on 4 October 1871, and was buried in the Cilliers family cemetery, in a grave marked by a simple tombstone and later a monument.\n\nAs well as numerous public places such as \"Sarel Cilliers High School\", and the \"Sarel Cilliers wagon-wheel bridge\" being attached to Cilliers' name, he is also well-remembered by South Africans as a spiritual leader who was thought to have lived in close contact with God, and lived by the principles of his unfaltering faith. Although he is most famously remembered for speaking the Vow at the Battle of the Blood River, he was, in addition, an important progenitor of the early Dutch Reformed Church in South Africa.\n\nHe is also seen as an exemplary example of a devout follower of his faith. He believed firmly in his religion with the utmost conviction, as best seen through his Vow. He is remembered as being a constantly determined, principled, and often selfless individual, shown through his ability to endure hardships to serve others in need. Overall he is seen as an important public and cultural figure who played an important role in Voortrekker history, the early history of Natal and the Orange Free State.\n\nThe progenitor of the Cillier name in the region was a French Huguenot refugee named Josué Cellier from Orléans, France who arrived in the Cape of Good Hope in 1700. Other variations of the name include: Celliers, Cilliers, Cillié and Sellier.\n\nG.B.A. Gerdener wrote a biography of Sarel Cilliers in 1919, which includes details of various events in his life and a reconstruction of the Vow.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2176701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2176701", "title": "Simon Bikindi", "text": "Simon Bikindi\n\nSimon Bikindi (born 28 September 1954) is a Rwandan singer-songwriter who was formerly very popular in Rwanda. His patriotic songs were playlist staples on the national radio station Radio Rwanda during the war from October 1990 to July 1994 before the Rwandan Patriotic Front took power. He was tried and convicted for incitement to genocide by the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) in 2008.\n\nBikindi, an ethnic Hutu, was born in Rwerere in the northwestern prefecture of Gisenyi, the same region from which President Habyarimana and many of the key figures in his MRND regime originated.\n\nAt the time of the genocide, he was a \"well-known composer and singer of popular music and director of the performance group \"Irindiro Ballet\".\" His songs were described as having \"elliptical lyrics and catchy tunes\", mixing English, French and Kinyarwanda and combining rap-style texts with traditional folk song melodies. His first cassette, released in 1990, was of traditional wedding songs. He was additionally a civil servant of the Ministry of Youth and Sport and a member of the MRND party. Some of his songs directed against the Tutsi were played on Radio Télévision Libre des Mille Collines to incite killings. He left the country a few days before the beginning of the genocide, but returned later in June. It is a matter of debate whether and to what extent he participated in the genocide as such, but according to the ruling of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR), it is proved beyond reasonable doubt that he was associated with the extremist Interahamwe militia and publicly urged Hutus to exterminate all Tutsis in June 1994. After the RPF takeover, he fled the country. His songs are banned in Rwanda since 1994.\n\nBikindi was indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR). He was charged with the following: conspiracy to commit genocide; genocide, or alternatively complicity in genocide; direct and public incitement to commit genocide, and murder and persecution, as crimes against humanity.. The indictment stated that Bikindi \"composed, sang, recorded or distributed musical works extolling Hutu solidarity and accusing Tutsis of enslaving Hutus\". The prosecution cited a song entitled \"The Awakening\" but commonly referred to as \"I hate the Hutus\", which attacked \"pro-Tutsi\" Hutus and specifically those Hutus who collaborated with the Tutsi Rwandan Patriotic Front insurgents against the government. In addition, it was argued that in the months prior to the genocide, Bikindi had \"consulted with President Juvénal Habyarimana, Minister of Youth and Sports Callixte Nzabonimana and MRND-aligned military authorities on song lyrics\" before releasing them to be played on the Hutu Power radio station RTLM. The prosecution also claimed that during the 100 days of genocide from 7 April to 14 July 1994, Bikindi participated personally in the killings, both in Kigali and Gisenyi prefecture, and helped to recruit and organise \"Interahamwe\" militias. \n\nFollowing his arrest in Leiden, Netherlands on 12 July 2001, Bikindi fought extradition and requested asylum. However, eight months later, on 27 March 2002, he was placed in the custody of the ICTR. He subsequently entered a plea of not guilty to all the charges against him and was imprisoned at the United Nations Detention Facility (UNDF) in Arusha, Tanzania. After a series of delays, his war crimes trial was set to begin on 15 May 2006. He was represented by the chairman of the Kenyan section of the International Commission of Jurists (ICJ), Wilfred Ngunjiri Nderitu.\n\nIn addition to other evidence, the prosecution cited a song celebrating the abolition of monarchy and the regaining of independence in 1959–1961: a Rwandan expert in the trial later expounded that the latter song could not have been addressed to the Rwandan nation as a whole, because the Tutsis were associated with the Rwandan monarchy and colonial regime, and that it was impossible to hate the monarchy without hating the Tutsis. The defence argued that there were contradictions in the witness testimonies, denying that the songs were about Tutsis and invoking Tutsi witnesses whom Bikindi had allegedly \"helped to save their lives\". Regarding the songs, both sides had experts on their side, but it was undeniable that the lyrics were difficult to interpret and that democracy and peace were mentioned. Bikindi's lawyer also argued that to accuse Bikindi is \"to deny him his right of expression\". In a remarkable incident, one of the defendant's counsels was accused of having bribed a prosecution witness. The chief counsel of the defence agreed with the prosecution's accusation, which caused Bikindi to refuse to be represented by him any further. The ICTR later cleared the lawyer of that accusation.\n\nThe prosecution team in Bikindi's trial asked for a life sentence, the most severe punishment the court gives. The defence requested acquittal.\n\nIn December 2008, Bikindi was sentenced to 15 years in prison with credit for 7 years already served, for incitement to commit genocide. The conviction stemmed from the fact that the court considered it proved beyond reasonable doubt that towards the end of June 1994 he had made a speech from an Interahamwe vehicle equipped with a Public address system, urging and subsequently reminding the Hutu population to exterminate all Tutsis, whom he referred to as \"snakes\". All the other charges were dismissed; in particular, the court considered that while some songs had an inciting character, they had all been written before 1994, thus before the genocide, and that there was not sufficient evidence to prove that Bikindi had played a role in the dissemination of his songs on radio during the genocide, or that he had personally engaged in killings or organising of militias.\n\nThe trial had been considered problematic because of the troubling possibility of an artist being arbitrarily prosecuted for his work, art being open to a variety of interpretations. The verdict, however, successfully avoided this controversial issue, as it was not based on Bikindi's songs.\n\nAt the time of the genocide, Bikindi had a relationship with Angeline Mukabanana, a Tutsi. In an interview for the New York Times in 2008, she expressed her opinion that Bikindi hated no one and was simply an opportunist, too eager to please. She cited the fact that Bikindi had adopted her son, who had a Tutsi father, and had helped their Tutsi neighbours against Hutu murderers. Mukabanana claimed that after Bikindi wrote \"I hate Hutus\", she asked him why he had written that and pointed out the possibility of the RPF's winning the war. He allegedly answered: \"The government obliges me to write these songs. If I hear the RPF is coming to Kigali next month, I'll write a song for them.\"\n\n\n\nAudios: Listen to Bikindi Simon's songs [Umviriza indirimbo za Bikindi Simoni]\n\nLyrics\n"}
{"id": "39870310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39870310", "title": "Taddy Blecher", "text": "Taddy Blecher\n\nTaddy Blecher (born 1967) is a South African actuary, management consultant and educational entrepreneur. He is the co-founder of CIDA City Campus and was given the World Economic Forum's Global Leader for Tomorrow Award in 2002 and again in 2005.\n\nBlecher was born in Johannesburg, South Africa in 1967. At university Blecher studied actuarial science and was given \"several awards, including the Liberty Life Gold Medal for the top actuarial honours student in the country.\"\n\nWhile working as an actuary and international business consultant Blecher \"was voted consultant of the year three consecutive times at Monitor Company.\" In 1995 he received an R1, 3-million job offer in the US. However, after buying his plane ticket he had a change of heart and decided to remain in South Africa to pursue education and employment opportunities for disadvantaged youth.\n\nIn 1999, after four years of teaching the Transcendental Meditation technique to students at schools in the Alexander township, Blecher began contacting rural schools and city business' to recruit students and donations for an \"almost-free business university\" which he co-founded with 250 students. The school, called Community and Individual Development City Campus (or CIDA City Campus), provided a low cost educational opportunity, in an area of high poverty and low job skills, and cast Blecher as \"a local hero.\" To get the school started, Blecher was given the use of a Johannesburg office building by an investment bank called Investec and his former employer gave him use of an office. Belcher taught students to type 30 words per minute using a photocopy of a computer keyboard and successfully pursued donations from companies like JPMorgan and Dell computers as well as entrepreneurs Oprah Winfrey and Richard Branson. Later, Blecher was given the World Economic Forum's Global Leader for Tomorrow Award in 2002 and again in 2005. As the CIDA City campus' chief executive officer CEO Blecher accepted a $1 million dollar donation from the Skoll Foundation in 2007.\n\nBlecher left CIDA \"to start another free educational body, called the Maharishi Institute\". In 2009 he co-founded \"a 225-seat call centre and a large data-capture facility\" called, Invincible Outsourcing. A project designed to allow disadvantaged students to earn funds for education while they are still in school.\n\nBlecher is a member of the Human Resource Development Council of South Africa and a co-founder of an innovation award program called, InnovationTown and the Branson School of Entrepreneurship.\n\nBlecher has been described as \"a Harry Potter lookalike\" with a passion for education. Blecher says he learned to meditate when he was 10 yrs old and practices yoga and meditation daily. In addition to providing the disadvantaged with educational opportunities Blecher wants to \"help people find direction in their lives\" and is \"an advocate of transcendental meditation [\"sic\"].\"\n\nAfter overcoming his fear of public speaking he was described by The Star (South Africa) \"as one of the top 100 people\" in the news headlines and \"An inspirational speaker whose incredible story made every major publication in South Africa.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3210380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3210380", "title": "Tallaal Adrey", "text": "Tallaal Adrey\n\nTallaal Adrey (born 1975) is an Australian citizen from Auburn, New South Wales sentenced to four years imprisonment in Kuwait on terrorism-related charges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4451892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4451892", "title": "Texas Jack Vermillion", "text": "Texas Jack Vermillion\n\nJohn Wilson Vermillion (1842 – 1911), also known as \"Texas Jack\" or later as \"Shoot-Your-Eye-Out Vermillion,\" was a gunfighter of the Old West known for his participation in the Earp Vendetta Ride and his later association with Soapy Smith.\n\nVermillion was born in 1842 in Russell County, Virginia, the second of 12 children born to William and Nancy Vermillion (née Owens). He was a Confederate Civil War veteran and fought under the command of General Joseph Wheeler and Nathan Bedford Forrest. After the war, Jack went to Indiana, where he married Margaret Horton in September, 1865. They moved to Missouri, where Jack accepted the position as Territorial Marshal for the eastern section of Missouri. Jack's wife and two young children (a daughter and son) died in a diphtheria epidemic in Missouri, while Jack was away.\n\nVermillion wound up in Kansas in the late 1870s. From Dodge City, Kansas, he went to Tombstone, Arizona (Arizona Territory), where he possibly previously knew the Earps and Doc Holliday. He was listed by Virgil Earp as special policeman (i.e., deputy city policeman) June 22, 1881. This is the day of the large Tombstone fire of 1881, with which Virgil had to cope as acting city marshal; the date suggests that Jack is one of the extra men Virgil hired to help cope with looting, during and after the disaster.\n\nThe origin of Texas Jack, Vermillion's nickname, is unknown, but he is first listed by this moniker on a wanted poster, for shooting a man during an argument at cards. When asked about why he was called Texas Jack, he replied: \"Because I'm from Virginia\".\n\nVermillion did not accompany Virgil Earp as a member of the protective squad which escorted him to Tucson, on March 20, 1882. Instead, Vermillion joined the vendetta posse March 21, 1882 in Tombstone, a day after the killing of Frank Stilwell in Tucson; thus Vermillion was not one of the five men indicted for Stilwell's killing. He presumably did participate in the killing of Florentino Cruz on March 22.\n\nVermillion had his horse shot out from under him during the fight at Iron Springs (March 24), in which \"Curly Bill\" Brocius was killed. Vermillion was himself not hit in that fight, but he had to be picked up by Doc Holliday after exposing himself to fire from the cowboys, while trying to retrieve the rifle wedged under his fallen horse. This episode, combined with Wyatt's memory in the Flood manuscript and Vermillion's family history suggest that Vermillion may have participated in the Earp posse more as a friend of Holliday's, who was a fellow Methodist and fellow southerner. Note that Holliday's father had also served as a Confederate soldier.\n\nIn the unpublished 1926 John H. Flood manuscript of Wyatt Earp's biography, Vermillion is mentioned (as \"Texas Jack\") several times as not being a close friend of the Earps', but rather a relative stranger. This fact caused Wyatt some chagrin in memory, since Vermillion stayed by him at Iron Springs when the other three men in his posse at the time (Holliday, Johnson, and McMasters) fled under fire. (Warren Earp was away on an errand for the posse).\n\nIn 1883, Vermillion was involved with the Dodge City War. Sometime during Jack's stay in Dodge he killed a card cheat. This is when he appears on the wanted poster as Texas Jack Vermillion. Sometime between 1883 and 1889, perhaps due to this charge, his handle of \"Texas Jack\" changed to \"Shoot-Your-Eye-Out-Jack\" Vermillion. Reportedly, he had shot a man in the eye.\n\nSometime around 1890, Vermillion returned permanently to Virginia, settled near the town of Big Stone Gap, and worked as a Methodist preacher. He and his second wife, Nannie Fleenor (whom he wed in 1883?), had a son, Opie Vermillion, and a daughter, Minnie Bell Vermillion.\n\nVermillion is said in many sources (including Earp's biography by Flood, which is probably the primary source for the information) to have drowned in Lake Michigan near Chicago, about 1900. Young states that Vermillion's body was returned to Virginia for burial, but Flood does not say this, and Young does not cite his source. Young may have assumed the body was returned, since there is evidence that Vermillion is buried in Virginia (see below).\n\nIn contrast to the ca. 1900 drowning theory, Vermillion family records suggest that Jack Vermillion died peacefully in his sleep in 1911. A photograph of him and his second wife ca. 1910 survives in the family record. A John W. Vermillion (farmer) is also listed in the 1910 census in Washington Co., Virginia (this is just South of Russell County and the town of Big Stone Gap). This man, listed as aged 66, is listed as being born in Virginia, married in Virginia, 35 years(?) to wife Nannie. Whether or not this is the same man is not definitely known. The implied birth date would be wrong, but reasonably close (circa 1844, not 1842); however, the given marriage date would be far off (35 years from 1910 is 1875, not 1883). The place of residence is in the same relatively small area in the western tail of Virginia where Texas Jack was born and is said in other sources to have returned. The issue is not resolved. Visually, the elderly man in the 1910 photograph could well be the young J.W. Vermillion from the Civil War photo (see comparison photo).\n\nAccording to Vermillion family history, Jack killed a man in a gunfight in 1890 and was forced to move 60 miles east to Mendota, Virginia, in Washington County (which fits with the census report), where he spent the rest of his days. John W. Vermillion's grave and that of his wife are in the Mendota Cemetery.\n\nVermillion appears as a minor character in most Wyatt Earp films. For example, he is portrayed in \"Hour of the Gun\" (1967) by actor William Windom and in \"Tombstone\" (1993) by actor Peter Sherayko.\n"}
{"id": "41202964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41202964", "title": "The Martin Short Show (1994 TV series)", "text": "The Martin Short Show (1994 TV series)\n\nThe Martin Short Show is an American television sitcom that aired from September 15 until October 1, 1994 on NBC.\n\nThe series focuses on Marty Short, a comedian who tries to balance his work life as a sketch show host, and his home life with his wife and children.\n\n"}
{"id": "52823217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52823217", "title": "Toby Onwumere", "text": "Toby Onwumere\n\nToby Onwumere is an actor known for the role of Capheus on the second season of the Netflix original series \"Sense8\".\n\nOnwumere was born on February 1, 1990. Prior to being cast in \"Sense8\", Onwumere graduated from University of California, San Diego's graduate acting program with an MFA. He completed his undergraduate acting training at the University of Evansville in Indiana.\n\nOnwumere has appeared on stage with Santa Cruz Shakespeare where he played Macduff in Macbeth and Cleton in The Liar. He also appeared in the previous incarnation of the festival; Shakespeare Santa Cruz Where he played in The Taming of the Shrew and Henry V\n\nOnwumere replaced British actor Aml Ameen, who played the role of Capheus in season 1 of \"Sense8\". Onwumere made his debut as Capheus on the December 2016 Christmas special of \"Sense8\".\nHe has also been cast to reoccur in the Fifth Season of Fox's Empire, as a war correspondent and love interest of Jamal Lyon.\n"}
{"id": "1883941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883941", "title": "Utut Adianto", "text": "Utut Adianto\n\nUtut Adianto Wahyuwidayat (born 16 March 1965 in Jakarta, Indonesia) is an Indonesian chess Grandmaster and politician. He is Indonesia's top-rated player of all-time with an Elo rating of 2566, and also serves as the deputy speaker of the People's Representative Council since March 2018.\n\nUtut Adianto learned the game of chess at the age of six. He won the Jakarta Junior Championship at the age of 12. In 1982, he won the Indonesian Chess Championship. He was awarded the GM title in 1986, becoming at the time the youngest Indonesian to do so at the age of 21 years. Since then, Susanto Megaranto has become a GM at the age of 17 years. Between 1995 and 1999 Adianto maintained an Elo rating over 2600.\n\nIn 1999, he participated in the FIDE Knock-out world chess championship in Las Vegas, losing to Daniel Fridman in the first round.\n\nUtut Adianto is chairman of the Indonesian Chess Federation (PERCASI). With Machnan R. Kamaluddin, Eka Putra Wirya and Kristianus Liem, he founded a chess school in Indonesia, which has produced several national players.\n\nIn 2005, Adianto was awarded the title of FIDE Senior Trainer.\n\nOn 9 May 2009, he was elected to the People's Representative Council, the lower house of Indonesia's bicameral parliament. He became deputy speaker of the body on 20 March 2018.\n\nIn the game below, Adianto beats four-time U.S. chess champion Alexander Shabalov: \nGame played in New York, 1993, Caro-Kann Defense\n\n1.e4 c6 2.d4 d5 3.e5 Bf5 4.Nc3 e6\n5.g4 Bg6 6.Nge2 c5 7.Be3 Nc6 8.dxc5 Nxe5\n9.Nf4 a6 10.Qe2 Nf6 11.O-O-O Be7 12.Bg2 Nexg4\n13.Nfxd5 exd5 14.Nxd5 Nxd5 15.Qxg4 O-O 16.Bxd5 Qc7\n17.f4 Rad8 18.Rhe1 Qa5 19.Bf2 Bxc5 20.Re5 Qa4\n21.Bb3 Rxd1+ 22.Kxd1 Rd8+ 23.Kc1 Qb4 24.Be1 Qd4\n25.a3 Bxa3 26.c3 Qb6 27.Qh4 Bd6 28.Rd5 Re8\n29.f5 Qxb3 30.Rxd6 Bxf5 31.Rd2 Qa2 0-1\n\n"}
{"id": "14568885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14568885", "title": "Venerable Stylianus", "text": "Venerable Stylianus\n\nVenerable Stylianus of Paphlagonia was born to a wealthy family between the 4th and 6th centuries in Paphlagonia, Asia Minor. Upon his parents' death he donated all the family wealth and entered into monastic life with great devotion.\n\nAfter some time in the monastery he gained a reputation for piety and excellence in the spiritual life, however, the jealousy of the other monks drove Stylianus to pursue the solitary life of a hermit.\n\nStylianus gradually gained a reputation for sanctity with the local people who came to him increasingly for aid with their spiritual and temporal needs. He became well known as a healer of physical and mental illnesses. His great affection for children also inspired parents to ask his prayers for their offspring and he became known as a protector and healer of the young.\n\nVenerable Stylianus is commemorated on 26 November in the Eastern Orthodox, Roman Catholic and Eastern Catholic Churches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24109884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24109884", "title": "White Matlack", "text": "White Matlack\n\nWhite Matlack (October 7, 1745; Haddonfield, New Jersey – January 7, 1824) to Elizabeth Martha Burr Haines and Timothy Matlack: a couple that had both lost their first spouses. His grandparents were William Matlack and Mary Hancock; and Henry Burr and Elizabeth Hudson. His siblings were Sybil, Elizabeth, Titus, Seth, Josiah and Timothy Matlack. He was a New York Quaker and abolitionist.\n\nHe married Mary Hawhurst on March 6, 1768. They had four children; White, Timothy, Mary, and Hannah.\n\nWhite was a watchmaker and silversmith in New York City from around 1769 to 1775. In 1775, he also worked in Philadelphia. Then he ran a brewery located not far from the Fraunces Tavern. By the 1780s he moved into steel manufacturing.\n\nIn 1782, he and Isaac Howell signed a document titled \"The memorial and remonstrance of Isaac Howell and White Matlack, in behalf of themselves, and others, who have been disowned by the people called Quakers, &c\". White and his brother Timothy had been disowned by Orthodox Quakers for their support of the American Revolution. They formed a group with others called the Society of Free Quakers.\n\nIn 1786, he signed a letter to the Senate and assembly of the State of New York, against the shipping of African slaves through the port of New York.\n\nThree years later he became a member of the New York Manumission Society. In 1787, the society founded the African Free School.\n\nHe died at Bay Side, near Flushing on Long Island, aged 80.\n"}
{"id": "15126487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15126487", "title": "William McCary", "text": "William McCary\n\nWarner \"William\" McCary (c. 1811 – after 1854) was an African American convert to Mormonism who was expelled from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) in 1847 for claiming to be a prophet. Some researchers have suggested that McCary's actions led to the LDS Church's subsequent policy of not allowing people of black African descent to hold the priesthood or participate in temple ordinances.\n\nHe was born as Warner McCary in Natchez, Mississippi around 1810 or 1811 to an African American slave named Francis, or \"Franky\", and her master, a white carpenter from Pennsylvania named James McCary. They also had two older children, Kitty and Robert. Upon James McCary's death around 1813, his will emancipated Franky and the older children but declared Warner and his future offspring to \"be held as slaves during all and each of their lives\" in the service of his mother and siblings. In 1836 he escaped Natchez on a riverboat and went to New Orleans, where he worked at Leeds Foundry until 1840, as well as an occasional musician and cigar vendor. Around this time he married a white Mormon woman, Lucy Stanton Bassett, who claimed to be a Native American woman named Laah Ceil. She claimed her mother was Delaware Indian and father was Mohawk.\n\nIn his youth, Warner McCary had begun using other names, including James Warner, William McCary, and Cary. He eventually adopted over a dozen aliases, many of which were Native American, including William Chubbee, William Chubbee King, Julius McCary, William McChubby, Okah Tubee, James Warner, and War'ne'wis Ke'ho'ke Chubbee. According to Connell O'Donovan, McCary used these alternate identities \"to both reinvent and reimagine his unhappy childhood, and to make his way and a living as an escaped slave in a white-dominant world.\"\n\nPresenting himself as a Native American, McCary was helped in 1843 by local whites to get a permit as a free person of color in Mississippi. When he left in 1844, he toured various frontier and eastern cities as a musician and lecturer. During this time he briefly joined with Mormonism where he sparked racial controversy.\n\nMcCary arrived in Nauvoo, Illinois in late 1845. He claimed he was a half-African American and half-Native American named Okah Tubbee and the \"lost\" son of Choctaw chief Mushulatubbee. McCary was also known as a skilled ventriloquist and musician. In Council Bluffs, Iowa in February 1846, he was baptized into the LDS Church by Apostle Orson Hyde, and he probably was ordained to the Melchizedek priesthood. Around this time, McCary also married Lucy Stanton, a white daughter of Daniel Stanton, a former high councilor and stake president. In the winter of 1846–1847, he joined the Latter Day Saints in Winter Quarters, Nebraska.\n\nWhile in Winter Quarters, McCary began claiming powers of prophesy and transfiguration — he claimed to have the power to appear as various biblical and Book of Mormon figures. In early 1847, McCary was excommunicated from the church for apostasy and expelled from Winter Quarters. Shortly after his expulsion, Hyde preached a sermon against McCary and his claims.\n\nMcCary settled a short distance away and began attracting some Winter Quarters followers to his own brand of Mormonism. He instituted plural marriage among his followers, and had himself sealed to several white wives.\n\nMcCary's behavior angered many of the Latter Day Saints in Winter Quarters. Researchers have stated that his marriages to his white wives \"played an important role in pushing the Mormon leadership into an anti-Black position\" and may have prompted Brigham Young to institute the priesthood and temple ban on black people. A statement from Young to McCary in March 1847 suggested that up until that point, race had nothing to do with priesthood eligibility and the earliest known statement about blacks being restricted from the priesthood from any Mormon leader was made by Apostle Parley P. Pratt a month after McCary was expelled from Winter Quarters. Speaking of McCary, Pratt stated that he \"was a black man with the blood of Ham in him which linege was cursed as regards the priesthood\".\n\nAfter Brigham Young instigated the priesthood and temple ban in 1847, the LDS Church generally did not allow men of black African descent to hold the priesthood again until 1978.\n\n\n"}
