{"id": "2220847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2220847", "title": "A. W. Benn", "text": "A. W. Benn\n\nAlfred William Benn (1843–1915) was an agnostic and an honorary associate of the Rationalist Press Association. His book \"A History of Modern Philosophy\" (first published in 1912) was republished in the Thinker's Library series in 1930.\n\nHe was the author of \"The Greek Philosophers\" (2 vols, 1882); \"The History of English Rationalism in the Nineteenth Century\" (2 vols, 1906); and \"The History of Ancient and Modern Philosophy\" (2 vols, 1912).\n\nBenn was also a member of the London Positivist Society and a friend of the lawyer and positivist Vernon Lushington. Lushington's daughter Susan recorded in her diary on 3 September 1889 that Benn and his wife visited the Lushington's Surrey home - Pyports, Cobham - and how Mrs Benn told her \"how she came to be a positivist.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "942048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=942048", "title": "Adaptation", "text": "Adaptation\n\nIn biology, adaptation has three related meanings. Firstly, it is the dynamic evolutionary process that fits organisms to their environment, enhancing their evolutionary fitness. Secondly, it is a state reached by the population during that process. Thirdly, it is a phenotypic or adaptive trait, with a functional role in each individual organism, that is maintained and has been evolved by natural selection.\n\nOrganisms face a succession of environmental challenges as they grow, and show adaptive plasticity as traits develop in response to the imposed conditions. This gives them resilience to varying environments.\n\nAdaptation is an observable fact of life accepted by philosophers and natural historians from ancient times, independently of their views on evolution, but their explanations differed. Empedocles did not believe that adaptation required a final cause (~ purpose), but thought that it \"came about naturally, since such things survived.\" Aristotle did believe in final causes, but assumed that species were fixed.\n\nIn natural theology, adaptation was interpreted as the work of a deity and as evidence for the existence of God. William Paley believed that organisms were perfectly adapted to the lives they led, an argument that shadowed Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, who had argued that God had brought about \"the best of all possible worlds.\" Voltaire's Dr. Pangloss is a parody of this optimistic idea, and David Hume also argued against design. The \"Bridgewater Treatises\" are a product of natural theology, though some of the authors managed to present their work in a fairly neutral manner. The series was lampooned by Robert Knox, who held quasi-evolutionary views, as the \"Bilgewater Treatises\". Charles Darwin broke with the tradition by emphasising the flaws and limitations which occurred in the animal and plant worlds.\n\nJean-Baptiste Lamarck proposed a tendency for organisms to become more complex, moving up a ladder of progress, plus \"the influence of circumstances,\" usually expressed as \"use and disuse\". This second, subsidiary element of his theory is what is now called Lamarckism, a proto-evolutionary hypothesis of the inheritance of acquired characteristics, intended to explain adaptations by natural means. \n\nOther natural historians, such as Buffon, accepted adaptation, and some also accepted evolution, without voicing their opinions as to the mechanism. This illustrates the real merit of Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace, and secondary figures such as Henry Walter Bates, for putting forward a mechanism whose significance had only been glimpsed previously. A century later, experimental field studies and breeding experiments by people such as E. B. Ford and Theodosius Dobzhansky produced evidence that natural selection was not only the 'engine' behind adaptation, but was a much stronger force than had previously been thought.\n\nAdaptation is primarily a process rather than a physical form or part of a body. An internal parasite (such as a liver fluke) can illustrate the distinction: such a parasite may have a very simple bodily structure, but nevertheless the organism is highly adapted to its specific environment. From this we see that adaptation is not just a matter of visible traits: in such parasites critical adaptations take place in the life cycle, which is often quite complex. However, as a practical term, \"adaptation\" often refers to a \"product\": those features of a species which result from the process. Many aspects of an animal or plant can be correctly called adaptations, though there are always some features whose function remains in doubt. By using the term \"adaptation\" for the evolutionary \"process\", and \"adaptive trait\" for the bodily part or function (the product), one may distinguish the two different senses of the word.\n\nAdaptation is one of the two main processes that explain the observed diversity of species, such as the different species of Darwin's finches. The other process is speciation, in which new species arise, typically through reproductive isolation. A favourite example used today to study the interplay of adaptation and speciation is the evolution of cichlid fish in African lakes, where the question of reproductive isolation is complex.\n\nAdaptation is not always a simple matter where the ideal phenotype evolves for a given external environment. An organism must be viable at all stages of its development and at all stages of its evolution. This places \"constraints\" on the evolution of development, behaviour, and structure of organisms. The main constraint, over which there has been much debate, is the requirement that each genetic and phenotypic change during evolution should be relatively small, because developmental systems are so complex and interlinked. However, it is not clear what \"relatively small\" should mean, for example polyploidy in plants is a reasonably common large genetic change. The origin of eukaryotic endosymbiosis is a more dramatic example.\n\nAll adaptations help organisms survive in their ecological niches. The adaptive traits may be structural, behavioural or physiological. Structural adaptations are physical features of an organism, such as shape, body covering, armament, and internal organization. Behavioural adaptations are inherited systems of behaviour, whether inherited in detail as instincts, or as a neuropsychological capacity for learning. Examples include searching for food, mating, and vocalizations. Physiological adaptations permit the organism to perform special functions such as making venom, secreting slime, and phototropism), but also involve more general functions such as growth and development, temperature regulation, ionic balance and other aspects of homeostasis. Adaptation affects all aspects of the life of an organism.\n\nThe following definitions are given by the evolutionary biologist Theodosius Dobzhansky:\n\nAdaptation differs from flexibility, acclimatization, and learning. Flexibility deals with the relative capacity of an organism to maintain itself in different habitats: its degree of specialization. Acclimatization describes automatic physiological adjustments during life; learning means improvement in behavioral performance during life. These terms are preferred to adaptation for changes during life which are not inherited by the next generation.\n\nFlexibility stems from phenotypic plasticity, the ability of an organism with a given genotype to change its phenotype in response to changes in its habitat, or to move to a different habitat. The degree of flexibility is inherited, and varies between individuals. A highly specialized animal or plant lives only in a well-defined habitat, eats a specific type of food, and cannot survive if its needs are not met. Many herbivores are like this; extreme examples are koalas which depend on \"Eucalyptus\", and giant pandas which require bamboo. A generalist, on the other hand, eats a range of food, and can survive in many different conditions. Examples are humans, rats, crabs and many carnivores. The \"tendency\" to behave in a specialized or exploratory manner is inherited—it is an adaptation. Rather different is developmental flexibility: \"An animal or plant is developmentally flexible if when it is raised in or transferred to new conditions, it changes in structure so that it is better fitted to survive in the new environment,\" writes evolutionary biologist John Maynard Smith.\n\nIf humans move to a higher altitude, respiration and physical exertion become a problem, but after spending time in high altitude conditions they acclimatize to the reduced partial pressure of oxygen, such as by producing more red blood cells. The ability to acclimatize is an adaptation, but the acclimatization itself is not. Fecundity goes down, but deaths from some tropical diseases also go down. Over a longer period of time, some people are better able to reproduce at high altitudes than others. They contribute more heavily to later generations, and gradually by natural selection the whole population becomes adapted to the new conditions. This has demonstrably occurred, as the observed performance of long-term communities at higher altitude is significantly better than the performance of new arrivals, even when the new arrivals have had time to acclimatize.\n\nThere is a relationship between adaptedness and the concept of fitness used in population genetics. Differences in fitness between genotypes predict the rate of evolution by natural selection. Natural selection changes the relative frequencies of alternative phenotypes, insofar as they are heritable. However, a phenotype with high adaptedness may not have high fitness. Dobzhansky mentioned the example of the Californian redwood, which is highly adapted, but a relict species in danger of extinction. Elliott Sober commented that adaptation was a retrospective concept since it implied something about the history of a trait, whereas fitness predicts a trait's future.\n\nSewall Wright proposed that populations occupy \"adaptive peaks\" on a fitness landscape. To evolve to another, higher peak, a population would first have to pass through a valley of maladaptive intermediate stages, and might be \"trapped\" on a peak that is not optimally adapted.\n\nA large diversity of genome DNAs in a species is the basis for adaptation and differentiation. A large population is needed to carry sufficient diversity. According to the misrepair-accumulation aging theory, The misrepair mechanism is important in maintaining a sufficient number of individuals in a species. misrepair is a way of repair for increasing the surviving chance of an organism when it has severe injuries. Without misrepairs, no individual could survive to reproduction age. Thus misrepair mechanism is an essential mechanism for the survival of a species and for maintaining the number of individuals. Although individuals die from aging, genome DNAs are being recopied and transmitted by individuals generation by generation. In addition, the DNA misrepairs in germ cells contribute also to the diversity of genome DNAs.\n\nBefore Darwin, adaptation was seen as a fixed relationship between an organism and its habitat. It was not appreciated that as the climate changed, so did the habitat; and as the habitat changed, so did the biota. Also, habitats are subject to changes in their biota: for example, invasions of species from other areas. The relative numbers of species in a given habitat are always changing. Change is the rule, though much depends on the speed and degree of the change.\nWhen the habitat changes, three main things may happen to a resident population: habitat tracking, genetic change or extinction. In fact, all three things may occur in sequence. Of these three effects only genetic change brings about adaptation.\nWhen a habitat changes, the resident population typically moves to more suitable places; this is the typical response of flying insects or oceanic organisms, which have wide (though not unlimited) opportunity for movement. This common response is called \"habitat tracking\". It is one explanation put forward for the periods of apparent stasis in the fossil record (the punctuated equilibrium theory).\n\nGenetic change occurs in a population when natural selection and mutations act on its genetic variability. The first pathways of enzyme-based metabolism may have been parts of purine nucleotide metabolism, with previous metabolic pathways being part of the ancient RNA world. By this means, the population adapts genetically to its circumstances. Genetic changes may result in visible structures, or may adjust physiological activity in a way that suits the habitat.\n\nHabitats and biota do frequently change. Therefore, it follows that the process of adaptation is never finally complete. Over time, it may happen that the environment changes little, and the species comes to fit its surroundings better and better. On the other hand, it may happen that changes in the environment occur relatively rapidly, and then the species becomes less and less well adapted. Seen like this, adaptation is a genetic \"tracking process\", which goes on all the time to some extent, but especially when the population cannot or does not move to another, less hostile area. Given enough genetic change, as well as specific demographic conditions, an adaptation may be enough to bring a population back from the brink of extinction in a process called evolutionary rescue. It should be noted that adaptation does affect, to some extent, every species in a particular ecosystem.\n\nLeigh Van Valen thought that even in a stable environment, competing species constantly had to adapt to maintain their relative standing. This became known as the Red Queen hypothesis, as seen in host-parasite interaction.\n\nIn coevolution, where the existence of one species is tightly bound up with the life of another species, new or 'improved' adaptations which occur in one species are often followed by the appearance and spread of corresponding features in the other species. These co-adaptational relationships are intrinsically dynamic, and may continue on a trajectory for millions of years, as has occurred in the relationship between flowering plants and pollinating insects.\n\nBates' work on Amazonian butterflies led him to develop the first scientific account of mimicry, especially the kind of mimicry which bears his name: Batesian mimicry. This is the mimicry by a palatable species of an unpalatable or noxious species, gaining a selective advantage. A common example seen in temperate gardens is the hoverfly, many of which—though bearing no sting—mimic the warning coloration of hymenoptera (wasps and bees). Such mimicry does not need to be perfect to improve the survival of the palatable species.\n\nBates, Wallace and Fritz Müller believed that Batesian and Müllerian mimicry provided evidence for the action of natural selection, a view which is now standard amongst biologists.\n\nAll adaptations have a downside: horse legs are great for running on grass, but they can't scratch their backs; mammals' hair helps temperature, but offers a niche for ectoparasites; the only flying penguins do is under water. Adaptations serving different functions may be mutually destructive. Compromise and makeshift occur widely, not perfection. Selection pressures pull in different directions, and the adaptation that results is some kind of compromise.\n\nConsider the antlers of the Irish elk, (often supposed to be far too large; in deer antler size has an allometric relationship to body size). Obviously, antlers serve positively for defence against predators, and to score victories in the annual rut. But they are costly in terms of resource. Their size during the last glacial period presumably depended on the relative gain and loss of reproductive capacity in the population of elks during that time. As another example, camouflage to avoid detection is destroyed when vivid coloration is displayed at mating time. Here the risk to life is counterbalanced by the necessity for reproduction.\n\nStream-dwelling salamanders, such as Caucasian salamander or Gold-striped salamander have very slender, long bodies, perfectly adapted to life at the banks of fast small rivers and mountain brooks. Elongated body protects their larvae from being washed out by current. However, elongated body increases risk of desiccation and decreases dispersal ability of the salamanders; it also negatively affects their fecundity. As a result, fire salamander, less perfectly adapted to the mountain brook habitats, is in general more successful, have a higher fecundity and broader geographic range.\n\nThe peacock's ornamental train (grown anew in time for each mating season) is a famous adaptation. It must reduce his maneuverability and flight, and is hugely conspicuous; also, its growth costs food resources. Darwin's explanation of its advantage was in terms of sexual selection: \"This depends on the advantage which certain individuals have over other individuals of the same sex and species, in exclusive relation to reproduction.\" The kind of sexual selection represented by the peacock is called 'mate choice,' with an implication that the process selects the more fit over the less fit, and so has survival value. The recognition of sexual selection was for a long time in abeyance, but has been rehabilitated.\n\nThe conflict between the size of the human foetal brain at birth, (which cannot be larger than about 400 cm, else it will not get through the mother's pelvis) and the size needed for an adult brain (about 1400 cm), means the brain of a newborn child is quite immature. The most vital things in human life (locomotion, speech) just have to wait while the brain grows and matures. That is the result of the birth compromise. Much of the problem comes from our upright bipedal stance, without which our pelvis could be shaped more suitably for birth. Neanderthals had a similar problem.\n\nAs another example, the long neck of a giraffe is a burden and a blessing. The neck of a giraffe can be up to in length. This neck can be used for inter-species competition or for foraging on tall trees where shorter herbivores cannot reach. However, as previously stated, there is always a trade-off. This long neck is heavy and it adds to the body mass of a giraffe, so the giraffe needs an abundance of nutrition to provide for this costly adaptation.\n\nPre-adaptation occurs when a population has characteristics which by chance are suited for a set of conditions not previously experienced. For example, the polyploid cordgrass \"Spartina townsendii\" is better adapted than either of its parent species to their own habitat of saline marsh and mud-flats. Among domestic animals, the White Leghorn chicken is markedly more resistant to vitamin B deficiency than other breeds; on a plentiful diet this makes no difference, but on a restricted diet this preadaptation could be decisive.\n\nPre-adaptation may arise because a natural population carries a huge quantity of genetic variability. In diploid eukaryotes, this is a consequence of the system of sexual reproduction, where mutant alleles get partially shielded, for example, by genetic dominance. Microorganisms, with their huge populations, also carry a great deal of genetic variability. The first experimental evidence of the pre-adaptive nature of genetic variants in microorganisms was provided by Salvador Luria and Max Delbrück who developed the Fluctuation Test, a method to show the random fluctuation of pre-existing genetic changes that conferred resistance to bacteriophages in \"Escherichia coli\".\n\nFeatures that now appear as adaptations sometimes arose by co-option of existing traits, evolved for some other purpose. The classic example is the ear ossicles of mammals, which we know from paleontological and embryological evidence originated in the upper and lower jaws and the hyoid bone of their synapsid ancestors, and further back still were part of the gill arches of early fish. The word \"exaptation\" was coined to cover these common evolutionary shifts in function. The flight feathers of birds evolved from the much earlier feathers of dinosaurs, which might have been used for insulation or for display.\n\nSome traits do not appear to be adaptive, that is, they have a neutral or deleterious effect on fitness in the current environment. Because genes have pleiotropic effects, not all traits may be functional: they may be what Stephen Jay Gould and Richard Lewontin called spandrels, features brought about by neighbouring adaptations, like the triangular areas under neighbouring arches in architecture which began as functionless features.\n\nAnother possibility is that a trait may have been adaptive at some point in an organism's evolutionary history, but a change in habitats caused what used to be an adaptation to become unnecessary or even maladapted. Such adaptations are termed vestigial. Many organisms have vestigial organs, which are the remnants of fully functional structures in their ancestors. As a result of changes in lifestyle the organs became redundant, and are either not functional or reduced in functionality. Since any structure represents some kind of cost to the general economy of the body, an advantage may accrue from their elimination once they are not functional. Examples: wisdom teeth in humans; the loss of pigment and functional eyes in cave fauna; the loss of structure in endoparasites.\n\nIf a population cannot move or change sufficiently to preserve its long-term viability, then obviously, it will become extinct, at least in that locale. The species may or may not survive in other locales. Species extinction occurs when the death rate over the entire species exceeds the birth rate for a long enough period for the species to disappear. It was an observation of Van Valen that groups of species tend to have a characteristic and fairly regular rate of extinction.\n\nJust as there is co-adaptation, there is also coextinction, the loss of a species due to the extinction of another with which it is coadapted, as with the extinction of a parasitic insect following the loss of its host, or when a flowering plant loses its pollinator, or when a food chain is disrupted.\n\nAdaptation raises philosophical issues concerning how biologists speak of function and purpose, as this carries implications of evolutionary history – that a feature evolved by natural selection for a specific reason – and potentially of supernatural intervention – that features and organisms exist because of a deity's conscious intentions. In his biology, Aristotle introduced teleology to describe the adaptedness of organisms, but without accepting the supernatural intention built into Plato's thinking, which Aristotle rejected. Modern biologists continue to face the same difficulty. On the one hand, adaptation is obviously purposeful: natural selection chooses what works and eliminates what does not. On the other hand, biologists want to deny conscious purpose in evolution. The dilemma gave rise to a famous joke by the evolutionary biologist Haldane: \"Teleology is like a mistress to a biologist: he cannot live without her but he's unwilling to be seen with her in public.'\" David Hull commented that Haldane's mistress \"has become a lawfully wedded wife. Biologists no longer feel obligated to apologize for their use of teleological language; they flaunt it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3166475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3166475", "title": "Andy Blunden", "text": "Andy Blunden\n\nAndy Blunden (born 11 October 1945) is an Australian writer and Marxist philosopher based in Melbourne.\n\nBlunden is a member and secretary of the Marxists Internet Archive Collective (or Marxists.org), a website which contains many Marxist and Marxist related text on history, philosophy and politics along with many other topics.\n\nAnother internet project Blunden is involved with is the \"Marx Myths & Legends\". This website hosts many articles of prominent Marxian scholars and activists dealing with misunderstandings and slander surrounding Marx and his ideas.\n\nHis published works cover topics from Hegel to post-structuralism to ethics and politics. Blunden is a self-described \"Hegelian Marxist with a 'pragmatist twist' using Lev Vygotsky.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4399438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4399438", "title": "Branko Bošnjak", "text": "Branko Bošnjak\n\nBranko Bošnjak (14 January 1923 – 18 June 1996) was a Croatian philosopher, member of the Praxis school in the former Yugoslavia. Bošnjak was a professor at the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Zagreb and for a period a head of the Department for History of Philosophy and a dean of the faculty. He was a member of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. He died in Zagreb and was buried in Mirogoj Cemetery.\n\nBošnjak's main fields of interest were religion and history of philosophy. His major works are:\n\n"}
{"id": "46752361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46752361", "title": "Buddhānusmṛti", "text": "Buddhānusmṛti\n\nBuddhānusmṛti (Sanskrit; Pali: \"buddhānussati\"), meaning \"Buddha-mindfulness\", is a common Buddhist practice in all Buddhist traditions which involves meditating with a Buddha, such as Gautama or Amitābha, as the meditation subject.\n\nIn all Theravada countries chanting, devotion (\"bhatti\") and worship (puja) is a big part of lay and monastic Buddhist practice, and devotional chants which praise the qualities of the Buddha are widely used. Buddhānussaṭi is considered one of the four \"Guardian meditations\", as well as part of the \"Ten Recollections\" and the \"forty meditation subjects\" (Kammaṭṭhāna) which also includes recollection of the Dharma, Sangha, morality, generosity and Devas. According to Thanissaro Bhikkhu, recollection of the Buddha is meant to \"induce a sense of joy and confidence (\"pasada\") in the practice\" that \"can bring the mind to concentration and cleanse it of defilement.\" In the Pali Nikayas' mention of the ten recollections, Buddhānussaṭi is defined thus:\n\nThe most widely used meditation text in Theravada Buddhism, the Visuddhimagga uses the following 'Buddhānussaṭi Gatha' for contemplation of the Buddha's nine qualities (\"Nava Guna\"):\n\nBuddhagosa's exposition in the Visuddhimagga states that this practice endows one with confidence, mindfulness, understanding and merit. He also states that the practitioner \"comes to feel as if he were living in the Master's presence.\"\n\nAccording to the 'Netti Sutta' of the Abhidhamma Pitaka a yogin who wishes to practice Buddhānussaṭi can use Buddha statues to practice.\n\nIn the Tantric Theravada tradition, Buddha-mindfulness visualizations are also practiced. Dhammakaya meditation, which was influenced by this Southern tantric tradition, uses the visualization of a clear crystal Buddha image at the center of the body and the repetition of the mantra \"Sammā-Arahaṃ.\"\n\nWhile in Theravada Buddhism, this practice is restricted to Gautama Buddha, in Mahayana Buddhism Buddhānussaṭi and related mindfulness practices are extended to multiple Buddhas and Bodhisattvas such as Maitreya, Avalokiteshvara, Tara and Amitabha. These practices also sometimes involve mental visualization of their physical qualities, bodies and 'Buddha fields'. According to Paul Williams, the development of Mahayana Buddhānussaṭi practices can be traced to the Buddhist meditation teachers of Kashmir who composed several sutras which emphasized mindfulness of Buddhas. One of the earliest sutras which mentions mindfulness of Amitabha Buddha is the Pratyutpanna Samādhi Sūtra (translated into Chinese in 179 CE). This sutra, and others such as the Amitayurdhyana Sutra, include lengthy descriptions of the Buddha Amitabha's physical qualities and of his Pure land which are used in practices that are meant to allow the meditator to access the Pure Land of Sukhavati, worship Amitabha directly and receive teachings from Amitabha. In Pure Land Buddhism this practice is called Nianfo, and the Infinite Life Sutra says that if one practices visualization meditation on the Buddha Amitabha, upon death one will have a vision of Amitabha who will then take them to the Pure Land.\n\nIn Vajrayana Buddhism, a tantric type of Buddhānussaṭi is developed in a practice called Deity Yoga (Tibetan: lha'i rnal 'byor; Sanskrit: Devata-yoga) which is classified as an Inner Tantra. The practice of Deity Yoga involves the use of a Mandala image, mantra recitation and visualization of a chosen meditation deity called a Yidam. There are various types of Deity Yoga. One of the practices involves the meditator visualizing the Deity in front of them and another involves the meditator visualizing themselves as their chosen Deity and their surroundings with the elements of their Yidam's Mandala. According to Shangpa Rinpoche, this is the most common type of meditation in Vajrayana Buddhism.\n\n"}
{"id": "49531097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49531097", "title": "Caterina Cittadini", "text": "Caterina Cittadini\n\nBlessed Caterina Cittadini (28 September 1801 - 5 May 1857) was an Italian Roman Catholic religious from Bergamo who established the Ursuline Sisters of Saint Jerome Emiliani. The order was dedicated to the education of girls in Bergamo and in the surrounding areas and has since expanded outside of the Italian nation. Cittadini was orphaned as a child and cultivated her faith among fellow children in an orphanage where the spiritual direction was strong. Her order came in part of her devotion to Saint Jerome Emiliani as well as the Blessed Mother.\n\nCittadini's reputation increased as the decades went on due to her fame as a passionate and inspiring educator who instilled in girls both a civic and a religious education that was the basis of her educational career and her beliefs.\n\nHer beatification was celebrated on 29 April 2001 once Pope John Paul II recognized a healing that was believed to be attributed to Cittadini's direct intercession. Her feast is celebrated on an annual basis on the date of her death.\n\nCaterina Cittadini was born in Bergamo on 28 September 1801 to Giovanni Battista Cittadini and Margherita Lanzani; her sister was Giuditta (1803-1840). She was baptized the following 30 September in the parish of San Alessandro in Colonna. Her mother died in 1808 and her father abandoned the sisters after being widowed.\n\nThe sisters were taken in and grew up in the orphanage of Bergamo where both sisters developed a strong and ardent faith; in her case it meant a strong devotion to both the Blessed Mother and to Saint Jerome Emiliani. The sisters left the orphanage in 1823 in order to live with their paternal priest cousins Giovanni and Antonio Cittadini in Calolzio.\n\nCittadini became a teacher at a public girls school in Somasca in 1824 at the time she and Giuditta felt called to the religious life. Their spiritual director Giuseppe Brena - from their time at the orphanage - advised them to remain in Somasca to instead become the basis of a new religious congregation devoted to the education of girls both children and adolescents. To that end the pair bought in 1826 a house in Somasca and also bought and furnished a building that became a female boarding school in October 1826. Cittadini taught the students religious education and managed the school on a simultaneous level; at this stage word of her success spread and she attracted dozens of students from the surrounding areas. The Cittadini sisters opened two private schools in 1832 and in 1836.\n\nGiuditta directed these schools until her sudden death in 1840 which had put an emotional strain upon her older sister. This was exacerbated with the death of her cousin Antonio in 1841 and her spiritual director not long after that. The rapid losses that she incurred ruined her health to the point where she neared death in 1842 but was cured through the intercession of Saint Jerome Emiliani.\n\nShe quit public teaching in 1845 in order to just manage the schools themselves and she also took three companions under her wing to assist her in both that task and also in the care of orphans. In 1850 she received the papal approval of Pope Pius IX to build a chapel to house the Eucharist at her boarding school and in 1851 applied for the approval of a new religious congregation to the Bishop of Bergamo Carlo Gritti Morlacchi. In 1854 the new Bishop Pietro Luigi Speranza encouraged her work and instructed her to write the Rule of her new order - her first attempt was based on those of the Milanese Ursulines and was rejected. She persisted in writing the Rule once more which was accepted on 17 September 1854 bearing the name of her new congregation.\n\nCittadini died in 1857 after a period of ill health; her reputation for holiness and for her ardent faith spread across the northern Italian cities and led to calls for her cause of beatification to be introduced.\n\nSix months after her death - on 14 December 1857 - the Bishop of Bergamo gave his approval for the order to be recognized of diocesan right while on 8 July 1927 the congregation received the official papal approval of Pope Pius XI; this meant the congregation was now universal and was recognized of pontifical right to exercise its functions.\n\nThe order now operates in Asia in nations such as India and the Philippines and in Europe in both Belgium and Switzerland amongst others.\n\nThe process for beatification commenced on 21 April 1967 under Pope Paul VI with the title Servant of God being bestowed upon her. Preparations for the cause commenced at this point and all culminated in the diocesan process in which her life and her works were investigated; this complex process spanned from 5 August 1971 until 14 December 1978. Her writings were placed under investigation in order to ensure her beliefs and her life itself was not in contradiction to the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church and were approved in 1981.\n\nHistorical consultants met to discuss the cause on 19 December 1989 and had to issue their approval to it - which did take effect - in order for the cause to proceed to the so-called \"Roman Phase\" in Rome; this would see the Congregation for the Causes of Saints launching their own line of investigation into Cittadini's life and virtues. The Positio - documenting both her virtues and life - was submitted to the latter in 1990 while the diocesan process was ratified on 19 September 1991.\n\nOn 17 December 1996 she was proclaimed to be Venerable after Pope John Paul II acknowledged the fact that Cittadini had indeed lived a model Christian life of heroic virtue which she exercised to a favorable degree.\n\nThe miracle required for her beatification was investigated on a local level and was ratified in 1997. It received papal approval on 20 December 1999 and allowed for the beatification to take place. John Paul II celebrated Cittadini's beatification on 29 April 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "22225020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22225020", "title": "Cemal Yıldırım", "text": "Cemal Yıldırım\n\nCemal Yıldırım (1925–2009) was a Turkish philosopher, author, educator, and researcher. He was a prolific author, having written 15 books (4 in English and 11 in Turkish) and numerous academic papers. \n\nHe has written extensively on the philosophy of science and the history of science. His popular books \"Bilimin Öncüleri\" (\"Pioneers of Science\") and \"Evrim Kuramı ve Bagnazlık\" (\"Theory of Evolution and Dogmatism\") were widely read and discussed in Turkey. His book titled \"Matematiksel Düşünme\" (\"Mathematical Thinking\") was also very influential.\n\n"}
{"id": "294996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294996", "title": "Charles Taylor (philosopher)", "text": "Charles Taylor (philosopher)\n\nCharles Margrave Taylor (born 1931) is a Canadian philosopher from Montreal, Quebec, and professor emeritus at McGill University best known for his contributions to political philosophy, the philosophy of social science, the history of philosophy, and intellectual history. This work has earned him the Kyoto Prize, the Templeton Prize, the Berggruen Prize for Philosophy, and the John W. Kluge Prize.\n\nIn 2007, Taylor served with Gérard Bouchard on the Bouchard–Taylor Commission on reasonable accommodation with regard to cultural differences in the province of Quebec. He has also made contributions to moral philosophy, epistemology, hermeneutics, aesthetics, the philosophy of mind, the philosophy of language, and the philosophy of action.\n\nCharles Margrave Taylor was born in Montreal, Quebec, on November 5, 1931, to a francophone mother and an anglophone father by whom he was raised bilingually. He attended Selwyn House School from 1941 to 1946 and began his undergraduate education at McGill University where he received a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in history in 1952. He continued his studies at the University of Oxford, first as a Rhodes Scholar at Balliol College, receiving a BA degree with first-class honours in philosophy, politics and economics in 1955, and then as a postgraduate student, receiving a Doctor of Philosophy degree in 1961 under the supervision of Sir Isaiah Berlin. As an undergraduate student, he started one of the first campaigns to ban thermonuclear weapons in the United Kingdom in 1956, serving as the first president of the Oxford Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament.\n\nHe succeeded John Plamenatz as Chichele Professor of Social and Political Theory at the University of Oxford and became a Fellow of All Souls College.\n\nFor many years, both before and after Oxford, he was Professor of Political Science and Philosophy at McGill University in Montreal, where he is now professor emeritus. Taylor was also a Board of Trustees Professor of Law and Philosophy at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, for several years after his retirement from McGill.\n\nTaylor was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1986. In 1991, Taylor was appointed to the Conseil de la langue française in the province of Quebec, at which point he critiqued Quebec's commercial sign laws. In 1995, he was made a Companion of the Order of Canada. In 2000, he was made a Grand Officer of the National Order of Quebec. In 2003, he was awarded the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council's Gold Medal for Achievement in Research, which had been the council's highest honour. He was awarded the 2007 Templeton Prize for progress towards research or discoveries about spiritual realities, which included a cash award of US$1.5 million.\n\nIn 2007 he and Gérard Bouchard were appointed to head a one-year commission of inquiry into what would constitute reasonable accommodation for minority cultures in his home province of Quebec.\n\nIn June 2008, he was awarded the Kyoto Prize in the arts and philosophy category. The Kyoto Prize is sometimes referred to as the Japanese Nobel. In 2015, he was awarded the John W. Kluge Prize for Achievement in the Study of Humanity, a prize he shared with philosopher Jürgen Habermas. In 2016, he was awarded the inaugural $1-million Berggruen Prize for being \"a thinker whose ideas are of broad significance for shaping human self-understanding and the advancement of humanity.\"\n\nIn order to understand Taylor's views, it is helpful to understand his philosophical background, especially his writings on Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Martin Heidegger, and Maurice Merleau-Ponty. Taylor rejects naturalism and formalist epistemology. He is part of an influential intellectual tradition of Canadian idealism that includes John Watson, Paxton Young, C. B. Macpherson, and George Grant.\n\nIn his essay \"To Follow a Rule\", Taylor explores why people can fail to follow rules, and what kind of knowledge it is that allows a person to successfully follow a rule, such as the arrow on a sign. The intellectualist tradition presupposes that to follow directions, we must know a set of propositions and premises about how to follow directions.\n\nTaylor argues that Wittgenstein's solution is that all interpretation of rules draws upon a tacit background. This background is not more rules or premises, but what Wittgenstein calls \"forms of life\". More specifically, Wittgenstein says in the \"Philosophical Investigations\" that \"Obeying a rule is a practice.\" Taylor situates the interpretation of rules within the practices that are incorporated into our bodies in the form of habits, dispositions, and tendencies.\n\nFollowing Heidegger, Merleau-Ponty, Hans-Georg Gadamer, Michael Polanyi, and Wittgenstein, Taylor argues that it is mistaken to presuppose that our understanding of the world is primarily mediated by representations. It is only against an unarticulated background that representations can make sense to us. On occasion we do follow rules by explicitly representing them to ourselves, but Taylor reminds us that rules do not contain the principles of their own application: application requires that we draw on an unarticulated understanding or \"sense of things\"—the background.\n\nTaylor defines naturalism as a family of various, often quite diverse theories that all hold \"the ambition to model the study of man on the natural sciences.\"\n\nPhilosophically, naturalism was largely popularized and defended by the unity of science movement that was advanced by logical positivist philosophy. In many ways, Taylor's early philosophy springs from a critical reaction against the logical positivism and naturalism that was ascendant in Oxford while he was a student.\n\nInitially, much of Taylor's philosophical work consisted of careful conceptual critiques of various naturalist research programs. This began with his 1964 dissertation \"The Explanation of Behaviour\", which was a detailed and systematic criticism of the behaviourist psychology of B. F. Skinner that was highly influential at mid-century.\n\nFrom there, Taylor also spread his critique to other disciplines. The essay \"Interpretation and the Sciences of Man\" was published in 1972 as a critique of the political science of the behavioural revolution advanced by giants of the field like David Easton, Robert Dahl, Gabriel Almond, and Sydney Verba. In an essay entitled \"The Significance of Significance: The Case for Cognitive Psychology\", Taylor criticized the naturalism he saw distorting the major research program that had replaced B. F. Skinner's behaviourism.\n\nBut Taylor also detected naturalism in fields where it was not immediately apparent. For example, in 1978's \"Language and Human Nature\", he found naturalist distortions in various modern \"designative\" theories of language, while in \"Sources of the Self\" (1989) he found both naturalist error and the deep moral, motivational sources for this outlook in various individualist and utilitarian conceptions of selfhood.\n\nConcurrent to Taylor's critique of naturalism was his development of an alternative. Indeed, Taylor's mature philosophy begins when as a doctoral student at Oxford he turned away, disappointed, from analytic philosophy in search of other philosophical resources which he found in French and German modern hermeneutics and phenomenology.\n\nThe hermeneutic tradition develops a view of human understanding and cognition as centred on the decipherment of meanings (as opposed to, say, foundational theories of brute verification or an apodictic rationalism). Taylor's own philosophical outlook can broadly and fairly be characterized as hermeneutic and has been called \"engaged hermeneutics\". This is clear in his championing of the works of major figures within the hermeneutic tradition such as Wilhelm Dilthey, Heidegger, Merleau-Ponty, and Gadamer. It is also evident in his own original contributions to hermeneutic and interpretive theory.\n\nTaylor (as well as Alasdair MacIntyre, Michael Walzer, and Michael Sandel) is associated with a communitarian critique of liberal theory's understanding of the \"self\". Communitarians emphasize the importance of social institutions in the development of individual meaning and identity.\n\nIn his 1991 Massey Lecture \"The Malaise of Modernity\", Taylor argued that political theorists—from John Locke and Thomas Hobbes to John Rawls and Ronald Dworkin—have neglected the way in which individuals arise within the context supplied by societies. A more realistic understanding of the \"self\" recognizes the social background against which life choices gain importance and meaning.\n\nTaylor's later work has turned to the philosophy of religion, as evident in several pieces, including the lecture \"A Catholic Modernity\" and the short monograph \"Varieties of Religion Today: William James Revisited\".\n\nTaylor's most significant contribution in this field to date is his book \"A Secular Age\" which argues against the secularization thesis of Max Weber, Steve Bruce, and others. In rough form, the secularization thesis holds that as modernity (a bundle of phenomena including science, technology, and rational forms of authority) progresses, religion gradually diminishes in influence. Taylor begins from the fact that the modern world has not seen the disappearance of religion but rather its diversification and in many places its growth. He then develops a complex alternative notion of what secularization actually means given that the secularization thesis has not been borne out. In the process, Taylor also greatly deepens his account of moral, political, and spiritual modernity that he had begun in \"Sources of the Self\".\n\nTaylor was a candidate for the social democratic New Democratic Party (NDP) in Mount Royal on three occasions in the 1960s, beginning with the 1962 federal election when he came in third behind Liberal Alan MacNaughton. He improved his standing in 1963, coming in second. Most famously, he also lost in the 1965 election to newcomer and future prime minister, Pierre Trudeau. This campaign garnered national attention. Taylor's fourth and final attempt to enter the House of Commons of Canada was in the 1968 federal election, when he came in second as an NDP candidate in the riding of Dollard. In 1994 he coedited a paper on human rights with Vitit Muntarbhorn in Thailand. In 2008, he endorsed the NDP candidate in Westmount—Ville-Marie, Anne Lagacé Dowson. He was also a professor to Canadian politician and former leader of the New Democratic Party Jack Layton.\n\nTaylor served as a vice president of the federal NDP (beginning ) and was president of its Quebec section.\n\nIn 2010, Taylor said multiculturalism was a work in progress that faced challenges. He identified tackling Islamophobia in Canada as the next challenge.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5822", "title": "Chinese philosophy", "text": "Chinese philosophy\n\nChinese philosophy originates in the Spring and Autumn period and Warring States period, during a period known as the \"Hundred Schools of Thought\", which was characterized by significant intellectual and cultural developments. Although much of Chinese philosophy begins in the Warring States period, elements of Chinese philosophy have existed for several thousand years; some can be found in the Yi Jing (the \"Book of Changes\"), an ancient compendium of divination, which dates back to at least 672 BCE. It was during the Warring States era that what Sima Tan termed the major philosophical schools of China: Confucianism, Legalism, and Daoism, arose, along with philosophies that later fell into obscurity, like Agriculturalism, Mohism, Chinese Naturalism, and the Logicians.\n\nEarly Shang Dynasty thought was based upon cycles. This notion stems from what the people of the Shang Dynasty could observe around them: day and night cycled, the seasons progressed again and again, and even the moon waxed and waned until it waxed again. Thus, this notion, which remained relevant throughout Chinese history, reflects the order of nature. In juxtaposition, it also marks a fundamental distinction from western philosophy, in which the dominant view of time is a linear progression. During the Shang, fate could be manipulated by great deities, commonly translated as gods. Ancestor worship was present and universally recognized. There was also human and animal sacrifice.\n\nWhen the Shang were overthrown by the Zhou, a new political, religious and philosophical concept was introduced called the \"Mandate of Heaven\". This mandate was said to be taken when rulers became unworthy of their position and provided a shrewd justification for Zhou rule. During this period, archaeological evidence points to an increase in literacy and a partial shift away from the faith placed in Shangdi (the Supreme Being in traditional Chinese religion), with ancestor worship becoming commonplace and a more worldly orientation coming to the fore.\n\nConfucianism developed during the Spring and Autumn period from the teachings of the Chinese philosopher Confucius (551–479 BCE), who considered himself a retransmitter of Zhou values. His philosophy concerns the fields of ethics and politics, emphasizing personal and governmental morality, correctness of social relationships, justice, traditionalism, and sincerity. The Analects stress the importance of ritual, but also the importance of 'ren', which loosely translates as 'human-heartedness, Confucianism, along with Legalism, is responsible for creating the world’s first meritocracy, which holds that one's status should be determined by education and character rather than ancestry, wealth, or friendship. Confucianism was and continues to be a major influence in Chinese culture, the state of China and the surrounding areas of East Asia.\n\nBefore the Han dynasty the largest rivals to Confucianism were Chinese Legalism, and Mohism. Confucianism largely became the dominant philosophical school of China during the early Han Dynasty following the replacement of its contemporary, the more Taoistic Huang-Lao. Legalism as a coherent philosophy disappeared largely due to its relationship with the unpopular authoritarian rule of Qin Shi Huang, however, many of its ideas and institutions would continue to influence Chinese philosophy until the end of Imperial rule during the Xinhai Revolution.\n\nMohism, though initially popular due to its emphasis on brotherly love versus harsh Qin Legalism, fell out of favour during the Han Dynasty due to the efforts of Confucians in establishing their views as political orthodoxy. The Six Dynasties era saw the rise of the Xuanxue philosophical school and the maturation of Chinese Buddhism, which had entered China from India during the Late Han Dynasties. By the time of the Tang dynasty five-hundred years after Buddhism's arrival into China, it had transformed into a thoroughly Chinese religious philosophy dominated by the school of Zen Buddhism. Neo-Confucianism became highly popular during the Song dynasty and Ming Dynasty due in large part to the eventual combination of Confucian and Zen Philosophy.\n\nDuring the 19th and 20th centuries, Chinese philosophy integrated concepts from Western philosophy. Anti-Qing Dynasty revolutionaries, involved in the Xinhai Revolution, saw Western philosophy as an alternative to traditional philosophical schools; students in the May Fourth Movement called for completely abolishing the old imperial institutions and practices of China. During this era, Chinese scholars attempted to incorporate Western philosophical ideologies such as democracy, Marxism, socialism, liberalism, republicanism, anarchism and nationalism into Chinese philosophy. The most notable examples are Sun Yat-Sen's Three Principles of the People ideology and Mao Zedong's Maoism, a variant of Marxism–Leninism. In the modern People's Republic of China, the official ideology is Deng Xiaoping's \"market economy socialism\".\n\nAlthough the People's Republic of China has been historically hostile to the philosophy of ancient China, the influences of past are still deeply ingrained in the Chinese culture. In the post-Chinese economic reform era, modern Chinese philosophy has reappeared in forms such as the \"New Confucianism\". As in Japan, philosophy in China has become a melting pot of ideas. It accepts new concepts, while attempting also to accord old beliefs their due. Chinese philosophy still carries profound influence amongst the people of East Asia, and even Southeast Asia.\n\nAround 500 BCE, after the Zhou state weakened and China moved into the Spring and Autumn period, the classic period of Chinese philosophy began. This is known as the Hundred Schools of Thought (諸子百家; \"zhūzǐ bǎijiā\"; \"various scholars, hundred schools\"). This period is considered the golden age of Chinese philosophy. Of the many schools founded at this time and during the subsequent Warring States period, the four most influential ones were Confucianism, Daoism (often spelled \"Taoism\"), Mohism and Legalism.\n\nConfucianism is a philosophical school developed from the teachings of Confucius collected and written by his disciples after his death in \"The Analects\", and in the Warring States period, Mencius in \"The Mencius\" and Xunzi in \"The Xunzi\". It is a system of moral, social, political, and religious thought that has had tremendous influence on Chinese history, thought, and culture down to the 20th century. Some Westerners have considered it to have been the \"state religion\" of imperial China because of its lasting influence on Asian culture. Its influence also spread to Korea, Japan, Vietnam and many other Asian countries.\n\nConfucianism reached its peak of influence during the Tang and Song Dynasties under a rebranded Confucianism called Neo-Confucianism. Confucius expanded on the already present ideas of Chinese religion and culture to reflect the time period and environment of political chaos during the Warring States period. Because Confucius embedded the Chinese culture so heavily into his philosophy it was able to resonate with the people of China. This high approval of Confucianism can be seen through the reverence of Confucius in modern-day China.\n\nThe major Confucian concepts include \"rén\" 仁 (humanity or humaneness), \"zhèngmíng\" 正名 (rectification of names; e.g. a ruler who rules unjustly is no longer a ruler and may be dethroned), \"zhōng\" 忠 (loyalty), \"xiào\" 孝 (filial piety), and \"li\" 禮 (ritual). Confucius taught both positive and negative versions of the Golden Rule. The concepts Yin and Yang represent two opposing forces that are permanently in conflict with each other, leading to perpetual contradiction and change. The Confucian idea of \"Rid of the two ends, take the middle\" is a Chinese equivalent of Hegel's idea of \"thesis, antithesis, and synthesis\", which is a way of reconciling opposites, arriving at some middle ground combining the best of both. Confucius heavily emphasized the idea of microcosms in society (subunits of family and community) success's were the foundations for a successful state or country. Confucius believed in the use of education to further knowledge the people in ethics, societal behavior, and reverence in other humans. With the combination of education, successful family, and his ethical teachings he believed he could govern a well established society in China.\n\nDaoism is a philosophy and later also developed into a religion based on the texts the \"Tao Te Ching\" (Dào Dé Jīng; ascribed to Laozi) and the \"Zhuangzi\" (partly ascribed to Zhuangzi). The character \"Dao\" 道 (\"Dao\") literally means \"path\" or \"way\". However, in Daoism it refers more often to a meta-physical term that describes a force that encompasses the entire universe but which cannot be described nor felt. All major Chinese philosophical schools have investigated the correct \"Way\" to go about a moral life, but in Taoism it takes on the most abstract meanings, leading this school to be named after it. It advocated nonaction (\"wu wei\"), the strength of softness, spontaneity, and relativism. Although it serves as a rival to Confucianism, a school of active morality, this rivalry is compromised and given perspective by the idiom \"practise Confucianism on the outside, Taoism on the inside.\"\nMost of Taoism's focus is on what is perceived to be the undeniable fact that human attempts to make the world better actually make the world worse. Therefore, it is better to strive for harmony, minimising potentially harmful interference with nature or in human affairs.\n\nPhilosopher Han Fei synthesized together earlier the methods of his predecessors, which famous historian Sima Tan posthumously termed Legalism. With an essential principle like \"when the epoch changed, the ways changed\", late pre-Han Dynasty reformers emphasized rule by law.\n\nIn Han Fei's philosophy, a ruler should govern his subjects by the following trinity:\n\nWhat has been termed by some as the intrastate Realpolitik of the Warring States period was highly progressive, and extremely critical of the Confucian and Mohist schools. But that of the Qin Dynasty would be blamed for creating a totalitarian society, thereby experiencing decline. Its main motto is: \"Set clear strict laws, or deliver harsh punishment\". In Han Fei's philosophy the ruler possessed authority regarding reward and penalty, enacted through law. Shang Yang and Han Fei promoted absolute adherence to the law, regardless of the circumstances or the person. Ministers were only to be rewarded if their words were accurate to the results of their proposals. Legalism, in accordance with Shang Yang's interpretation, could encourage the state to be a militaristic autarky.\n\nThe School of Naturalists or the School of Yin-yang (陰陽家/阴阳家; \"Yīnyángjiā\"; \"Yin-yang-chia\"; \"School of Yin-Yang\") was a Warring States era philosophy that synthesized the concepts of yin-yang and the Five Elements; Zou Yan is considered the founder of this school. His theory attempted to explain the universe in terms of basic forces in nature: the complementary agents of yin (dark, cold, female, negative) and yang (light, hot, male, positive) and the Five Elements or Five Phases (water, fire, wood, metal, and earth). In its early days, this theory was most strongly associated with the states of Yan and Qi. In later periods, these epistemological theories came to hold significance in both philosophy and popular belief. This school was absorbed into Taoism's alchemic and magical dimensions as well as into the Chinese medical framework. The earliest surviving recordings of this are in the Ma Wang Dui texts and Huang Di Nei Jing.\n\nMohism (Moism), founded by Mozi (墨子), promotes universal love with the aim of mutual benefit. Everyone must love each other equally and impartially to avoid conflict and war. Mozi was strongly against Confucian ritual, instead emphasizing pragmatic survival through farming, fortification, and statecraft. Tradition is inconsistent, and human beings need an extra-traditional guide to identify which traditions are acceptable. The moral guide must then promote and encourage social behaviors that maximize general benefit. As motivation for his theory, Mozi brought in the \"Will of Heaven\", but rather than being religious his philosophy parallels utilitarianism.\n\nThe logicians (School of Names) were concerned with logic, paradoxes, names and actuality (similar to Confucian rectification of names). The logician Hui Shi was a friendly rival to Zhuangzi, arguing against Taoism in a light-hearted and humorous manner. Another logician, Gongsun Long, told the famous When a White Horse is Not a Horse dialogue. This school did not thrive because the Chinese regarded sophistry and dialectic as impractical.\n\nAgriculturalism was an early agrarian social and political philosophy that advocated peasant utopian communalism and egalitarianism. The philosophy is founded on the notion that human society originates with the development of agriculture, and societies are based upon \"people's natural prospensity to farm.\"\n\nThe Agriculturalists believed that the ideal government, modeled after the semi-mythical governance of Shennong, is led by a benevolent king, one who works alongside the people in tilling the fields. The Agriculturalist king is not paid by the government through its treasuries; his livelihood is derived from the profits he earns working in the fields, not his leadership. Unlike the Confucians, the Agriculturalists did not believe in the division of labour, arguing instead that the economic policies of a country need to be based upon an egalitarian self sufficiency. The Agriculturalists supported the fixing of prices, in which all similar goods, regardless of differences in quality and demand, are set at exactly the same, unchanging price.\n\nThe short founder Qin Dynasty, where Legalism was the official philosophy, quashed Mohist and Confucianist schools. Legalism remained influential during the early Han Dynasty under the Taoist-Realist ideology Huang-Lao until Emperor Wu of Han adopted Confucianism as official doctrine. Confucianism and Taoism became the determining forces of Chinese thought until the introduction of Buddhism.\n\nConfucianism was particularly strong during the Han Dynasty, whose greatest thinker was Dong Zhongshu, who integrated Confucianism with the thoughts of the Zhongshu School and the theory of the Five Elements. He also was a promoter of the New Text school, which considered Confucius as a divine figure and a spiritual ruler of China, who foresaw and started the evolution of the world towards the Universal Peace. In contrast, there was an Old Text school that advocated the use of Confucian works written in ancient language (from this comes the denomination \"Old Text\") that were so much more reliable. In particular, they refuted the assumption of Confucius as a godlike figure and considered him as the greatest sage, but simply a human and mortal\n\nThe 3rd and 4th centuries saw the rise of the \"Xuanxue\" (mysterious learning), also called \"Neo-Taoism\". The most important philosophers of this movement were Wang Bi, Xiang Xiu and Guo Xiang. The main question of this school was whether Being came before Not-Being (in Chinese, \"ming\" and \"wuming\"). A peculiar feature of these Taoist thinkers, like the Seven Sages of the Bamboo Grove, was the concept of \"feng liu\" (lit. wind and flow), a sort of romantic spirit which encouraged following the natural and instinctive impulse.\n\nBuddhism arrived in China around the 1st century AD, but it was not until the Northern and Southern, Sui and Tang Dynasties that it gained considerable influence and acknowledgement. At the beginning, it was considered a sort of Taoist sect. Mahayana Buddhism was far more successful in China than its rival Hinayana, and both Indian schools and local Chinese sects arose from the 5th century. Two chiefly important monk philosophers were Sengzhao and Daosheng. But probably the most influential and original of these schools was the Chan sect, which had an even stronger impact in Japan as the Zen sect.\n\nIn the mid-Tang Buddhism reached its peak, and reportedly there were 4,600 monasteries, 40,000 hermitages and 260,500 monks and nuns. The power of the Buddhist clergy was so great and the wealth of the monasteries so impressive, that it instigated criticism from Confucian scholars, who considered Buddhism as a foreign religion. In 845 Emperor Wuzong ordered the Great Anti-Buddhist Persecution, confiscating the riches and returning monks and nuns to lay life. From then on, Buddhism lost much of its influence.\n\nXuanxue was a philosophical school that combined elements of Confucianism and Taoism to reinterpret the \"Yijing,\" \"Daodejing,\" and \"Zhuangzi.\" The most important philosophers of this movement were Wang Bi, Xiang Xiu and Guo Xiang. The main question of this school was whether Being came before Not-Being (in Chinese, \"ming\" and \"wuming\"). A peculiar feature of these Taoist thinkers, like the Seven Sages of the Bamboo Grove, was the concept of \"feng liu\" (lit. wind and flow), a sort of romantic spirit which encouraged following the natural and instinctive impulse.\n\nBuddhism is a religion, a practical philosophy, and arguably a psychology, focusing on the teachings of Gautama Buddha, who lived on the Indian subcontinent most likely from the mid-6th to the early 5th century BCE. When used in a generic sense, a Buddha is generally considered to be someone who discovers the true nature of reality.\n\nBuddhism until the 4th century A.D had it little impact on China but in the 4th century its teachings hybridized with those of Taoism. Buddhism brought to China the idea of many hells, where sinners went, but the deceased sinners souls could be saved by pious acts. Since Chinese traditional thought focused more on ethics rather than metaphysics, the merging of Buddhist and Taoist concepts developed several schools distinct from the originating Indian schools. The most prominent examples with philosophical merit are Sanlun, Tiantai, Huayan, and Chán (a.k.a. Zen). They investigate consciousness, levels of truth, whether reality is ultimately empty, and how enlightenment is to be achieved. Buddhism has a spiritual aspect that compliments the action of Neo-Confucianism, with prominent Neo-Confucians advocating certain forms of meditation.\n\nNeo-Confucianism was a revived version of old Confucian principles that appeared around the Song dynasty, with Buddhist, Taoist, and Legalist features. The first philosophers, such as Shao Yong, Zhou Dunyi and Chang Zai, were cosmologists and worked on the Yi Jing. The Cheng brothers, Cheng Yi and Cheng Hao, are considered the founders of the two main schools of thought of Neo-Confucianism: the School of Principle the first, the School of Mind the latter. The School of Principle gained supremacy during the Song dynasty with the philosophical system elaborated by Zhu Xi, which became mainstream and officially adopted by the government for the Imperial examinations under the Yuan Dynasty. The School of Mind was developed by Lu Jiuyuan, Zhu Xi's main rival, but was soon forgotten. Only during the Ming Dynasty was the School of Mind revived by Wang Shouren, whose influence is equal to that of Zhu Xi. This school was particularly important in Japan.\n\nDuring the Qing Dynasty many philosophers objected against Neo-Confucianism and there was a return to the Han Dynasty Confucianism, and also the reprise of the controversy between Old Text and New Text. In this period also started the penetration of Western culture, but most Chinese thought that the Westerners were maybe more advanced in technology and warfare, but that China had primacy in moral and intellectual fields.\n\nDespite Confucianism losing popularity to Taoism and Buddhism, Neo-Confucianism combined those ideas into a more metaphysical framework. Its concepts include \"li\" (principle, akin to Plato's forms), \"qi\" (vital or material force), \"taiji\" (the Great Ultimate), and \"xin\" (mind). Song Dynasty philosopher Zhou Dunyi (1017–1073) is seen commonly seen as the first true \"pioneer\" of Neo-Confucianism, using Daoist metaphysics as a framework for his ethical philosophy. Neo-Confucianism developed both as a renaissance of traditional Confucian ideas, and as a reaction to the ideas of Buddhism and religious Daoism. Although the Neo-Confucianists denounced Buddhist metaphysics, Neo-Confucianism did borrow Daoist and Buddhist terminology and concepts.\nNeo-Confucianist philosophers like Zhu Xi and Wang Yangming are seen as the most important figures of Neo-Confucianism.\n\nDuring the Industrial and Modern Ages, Chinese philosophy had also begun to integrate concepts of Western philosophy, as steps toward modernization. Notably, Chinese philosophy never developed the concept of human rights, so that classical Chinese lacked words for them. Until 1864, W.A.P. Martin had to invent the word \"quanli（Chinese:权利/權利）\" to translate the Western concept of \"rights\" in the process of translating Henry Wheaton's \"Elements of International Law\" into classical Chinese.\n\nBy the time of the Xinhai Revolution in 1911, there were many calls such as the May Fourth Movement to completely abolish the old imperial institutions and practices of China. There have been attempts to incorporate democracy, republicanism, and industrialism into Chinese philosophy, notably by Sun Yat-Sen at the beginning of the 20th century. Mao Zedong added Marxism, Stalinism, Chinese Marxist Philosophy and other communist thought.\n\nWhen the Communist Party of China took over the reign, previous schools of thought, excepting notably Legalism, were denounced as backward, and later even purged during the Cultural Revolution, whereas their influences on Chinese thoughts remain until today. The current government of the People's Republic of China is trying to encourage a form of market socialism.\n\nSince the radical movement of the Cultural Revolution, the Chinese government has become much more tolerant with the practice of traditional beliefs. The 1978 Constitution of the People's Republic of China guarantees \"freedom of religion\" with a number of restrictions. Spiritual and philosophical institutions have been allowed to be established or re-established, as long they are not perceived to be a threat to the power of the CPC. Moreover, those organizations are heavily monitored. The influences of the past are still deeply ingrained in the Chinese culture. \n\nNew Confucianism is an intellectual movement of Confucianism that began in the early 20th century in Republican China, and revived in post-Mao era contemporary China. It is deeply influenced by, but not identical with, the Neo-Confucianism of the Song and Ming dynasties.\n\n\nAlthough the individual philosophical schools differ considerably, they nevertheless share a common vocabulary and set of concerns.\n\nAmong the terms commonly found in Chinese philosophy are:\n\nAmong the commonalities of Chinese philosophies are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52985732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52985732", "title": "Collegium of Black Women Philosophers", "text": "Collegium of Black Women Philosophers\n\nThe Collegium of Black Women Philosophers (CBWP) is an organization which was created to increase the visibility of black women in the field of philosophy and to allow greater networking and mentoring opportunities for these women. The organization is currently based at Penn State University. \n\nThe first meeting of CBWP took place in 2007. The organization was founded by Kathryn Gines. Gines felt that it was important to address the issue of the small number of black women in the field of philosophy. Gines reached out black women by email and was able to contact all thirty-one African American women professors, many of which were able to attend the first conference. The first conference was held at Vanderbilt University in 2008 and included Joyce Mitchell Cook, the first African American woman to earn a PhD in philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "55169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55169", "title": "Corporal punishment", "text": "Corporal punishment\n\nCorporal punishment or physical punishment is a punishment intended to cause physical pain on a person. It is most often practised on minors, especially in home and school settings. Common methods include spanking or paddling. It has also historically been used on adults, particularly on prisoners and enslaved people. Other common methods include flagellation and caning.\n\nOfficial punishment for crime by inflicting pain or injury, including flogging, branding and even mutilation, was practised in most civilizations since ancient times. However, with the growth of humanitarian ideals since the Enlightenment, such punishments were increasingly viewed as inhumane. By the late 20th century, corporal punishment had been eliminated from the legal systems of most developed countries.\n\nThe legality in the 21st century of corporal punishment in various settings differs by jurisdiction. Internationally, the late 20th century and early 21st century saw the application of human rights law to the question of corporal punishment in a number of contexts:\n\n\nOther uses of corporal punishment have existed, for instance, as once practised on apprentices by their masters. In many Western countries, medical and human-rights organizations oppose corporal punishment of children. Campaigns against corporal punishment have aimed to bring about legal reform to ban the use of corporal punishment against minors in homes and schools.\n\nCorporal punishment of children has traditionally been used in the Western world by adults in authority roles. Beating one's child as a punishment was recommended as early as c. the 10th century BC in the book of Proverbs attributed to Solomon:\n\nRobert McCole Wilson argues, \"Probably this attitude comes, at least in part, from the desire in the patriarchal society for the elder to maintain his authority, where that authority was the main agent for social stability. But these are the words that not only justified the use of physical punishment on children for over a thousand years in Christian communities, but ordered it to be used. The words were accepted with but few exceptions; it is only in the last two hundred years that there has been a growing body of opinion that differed. Curiously, the gentleness of Christ towards children (Mark, X) was usually ignored\".\n\nCorporal punishment was used in Greece, Rome, and Egypt for both judicial and educational discipline. Some states gained a reputation for using such punishments cruelly; Sparta, in particular, used them as part of a disciplinary regime designed to build willpower and physical strength. Although the Spartan example was extreme, corporal punishment was possibly the most frequent type of punishment. In the Roman Empire, the maximum penalty that a Roman citizen could receive under the law was 40 \"lashes\" or \"strokes\" with a whip applied to the back and shoulders, or with the \"fasces\" (similar to a birch rod, but consisting of 8–10 lengths of willow rather than birch) applied to the buttocks. Such punishments could draw blood, and were frequently inflicted in public.\n\nQuintilian (c. 35 – c. 100) voiced some opposition to the use of corporal punishment. According to Robert McCole Wilson, \"probably no more lucid indictment of it has been made in the succeeding two thousand years\".\n\nPlutarch, also in the first century, writes:\n\nIn Medieval Europe, corporal punishment was encouraged by the attitudes of the medieval church towards the human body, flagellation being a common means of self-discipline. This had an influence on the use of corporal punishment in schools, as educational establishments were closely attached to the church during this period. Nevertheless, corporal punishment was not used uncritically; as early as the eleventh century Saint Anselm, Archbishop of Canterbury was speaking out against what he saw as the excessive use of corporal punishment in the treatment of children.\n\nFrom the 16th century onwards, new trends were seen in corporal punishment. Judicial punishments were increasingly turned into public spectacles, with public beatings of criminals intended as a deterrent to other would-be offenders. Meanwhile, early writers on education, such as Roger Ascham, complained of the arbitrary manner in which children were punished.\n\nPeter Newell writes that perhaps the most influential writer on the subject was the English philosopher John Locke, whose \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" explicitly criticised the central role of corporal punishment in education. Locke's work was highly influential, and may have helped influence Polish legislators to ban corporal punishment from Poland's schools in 1783, the first country in the world to do so.\n\nDuring the 18th century, the concept of corporal punishment was challenged by some philosophers and legal reformers. Merely inflicting pain was seen as an inefficient form of discipline, influencing the subject only for a short period of time and effecting no permanent change in their behaviour. Some believed that the purpose of punishment should be reformation, not retribution. This is perhaps best expressed in Jeremy Bentham's idea of a \"panoptic\" prison, in which prisoners were controlled and surveyed at all times, perceived to be advantageous in that this system supposedly reduced the need of measures such as corporal punishment.\n\nA consequence of this mode of thinking was a reduction in the use of corporal punishment in the 19th century in Europe and North America. In some countries this was encouraged by scandals involving individuals seriously hurt during acts of corporal punishment. For instance, in Britain, popular opposition to punishment was encouraged by two significant cases, the death of Private Frederick John White, who died after a military flogging in 1846, and the death of Reginald Cancellor, killed by his schoolmaster in 1860. Events such as these mobilised public opinion and, by the late nineteenth century, the extent of corporal punishment's use in state schools was unpopular with many parents in England. Authorities in Britain and some other countries introduced more detailed rules for the infliction of corporal punishment in government institutions such as schools, prisons and reformatories. By the First World War, parents' complaints about disciplinary excesses in England had died down, and corporal punishment was established as an expected form of school discipline.\n\nIn the 1870s, courts in the United States overruled the common-law principle that a husband had the right to \"physically chastise an errant wife\". In the UK the traditional right of a husband to inflict moderate corporal punishment on his wife in order to keep her \"within the bounds of duty\" was similarly removed in 1891. See Domestic violence for more information.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the use of judicial corporal punishment declined during the first half of the 20th century and it was abolished altogether in the Criminal Justice Act, 1948 (zi & z2 GEo. 6. CH. 58.), whereby whipping and flogging were outlawed except for use in very serious internal prison discipline cases, while most other European countries had abolished it earlier. Meanwhile, in many schools, the use of the cane, paddle or tawse remained commonplace in the UK and the United States until the 1980s. In several other countries, it still is: see School corporal punishment.\n\nAuthor Jared Diamond writes that hunter-gatherer societies have tended to use little corporal punishment whereas agricultural and industrial societies tend to use progressively more of it. Diamond suggests this may be because hunter-gatherers tend to have few valuable physical possessions, and misbehavior of the child would not cause harm to others' property.\n\nResearchers living among the Parakanã and Ju/’hoansi people, as well as among some Aboriginal Australians, have written of the absence of physical punishment of children in those cultures.\n\nWilson writes:\n\nKey developments related to corporal punishment occurred in the late 20th century. Years with particular significance to the prohibition of corporal punishment are emphasised.\n\nThe notion of children’s rights in the Western world developed in the 20th century, but the issue of corporal punishment was not addressed generally before mid-century. Years with particular significance to the prohibition of corporal punishment of children are emphasised.\n\n58 countries, most of them in Europe and Latin America, have prohibited any corporal punishment of children.\n\nThe earliest recorded attempt to prohibit corporal punishment of children by a state dates back to Poland in 1783. However, its prohibition in all spheres of life – in homes, schools, the penal system and alternative care settings – occurred first in 1966 in Sweden. The 1979 Swedish Parental Code reads: \"Children are entitled to care, security and a good upbringing. Children are to be treated with respect for their person and individuality and may not be subjected to corporal punishment or any other humiliating treatment.\"\n\n, corporal punishment of children by parents (or other adults) is outlawed in all settings in 54 nations and 3 constituent nations. States that have completely prohibited corporal punishment of children are listed below (in chronological order):\n\nFor a more detailed overview of the global use and prohibition of the corporal punishment of children, see the following table.\n\nDomestic corporal punishment, i.e. the punishment of children by their parents, is often referred to colloquially as \"spanking\", \"smacking\" or \"slapping.\"\n\nIt has been outlawed in an increasing number of countries, starting with Sweden in 1966. In some other countries, corporal punishment is legal, but restricted (e.g. blows to the head are outlawed, implements may not be used, only children within a certain age range may be spanked).\n\nIn all states of the United States and most African and Asian nations, corporal punishment by parents is currently legal. It is also legal to use certain implements such as a belt or paddle.\n\nIn Canada, spanking by parents or legal guardians (but nobody else) is legal, as long as the child is not under 2 years or at least 12 years of age, and no implement other than an open, bare hand is used (belts, paddles, etc. are strictly prohibited). It is also illegal to strike the head when disciplining a child.\n\nIn the UK, spanking or smacking is legal, but it must not cause an injury amounting to Actual Bodily Harm (any injury such as visible bruising, breaking of the whole skin etc.); in addition, in Scotland, since October 2003, it has been illegal to use any implements or to strike the head when disciplining a child, and it is also prohibited to use corporal punishment towards children under the age of 3 years.\n\nIn Pakistan, Section 89 of Pakistan Penal Code allows corporal punishment.\n\nCorporal punishment in schools for misbehaviour has been outlawed in many countries. It often involves striking the student on the buttocks or the palm of the hand with an implement kept for the purpose such as a rattan cane or spanking paddle, or with the open hand. There may be restrictions in some jurisdictions, for example, in Singapore caning is permitted for boys only. Medical professionals have urged putting an end to the practice, noting the danger of injury to children's hands especially.\nIn India, corporal punishment has been abolished by law. However, corporal punishment continues to exist and be practised in many Indian schools. Cultural perception of corporal punishment has rarely been studied and researched. One study carried out by Arijit Ghosh and Madhumathi Pasupathi discusses how corporal punishment is perceived among parents and students in the Indian context, with the help of a representative sample size.\n\nAround 33 countries in the world still retain judicial corporal punishment, including a number of former British territories such as Botswana, Malaysia, Singapore and Tanzania. In Singapore, for certain specified offences, males are routinely sentenced to caning in addition to a prison term. The Singaporean practice of caning became much discussed around the world in 1994 when American teenager Michael P. Fay received four strokes of the cane for vandalism. Judicial caning and whipping are also used in Aceh Province in Indonesia.\n\nA number of other countries with an Islamic legal system, such as Saudi Arabia, Iran, Sudan and some northern states in Nigeria, employ judicial whipping for a range of offences. , some regions of Pakistan are experiencing a breakdown of law and government, leading to a reintroduction of corporal punishment by \"ad hoc\" Islamicist courts. As well as corporal punishment, some Islamic countries such as Saudi Arabia and Iran use other kinds of physical penalties such as amputation or mutilation. However, the term \"corporal punishment\" has since the 19th century usually meant caning, flagellation or bastinado rather than those other types of physical penalty.\n\nIn some countries foot whipping (\"bastinado\") is still practised on prisoners.\n\nIn parts of England, boys were once beaten under the old tradition of \"Beating the Bounds\" whereby a boy was paraded around the edge of a city or parish and spanked with a switch or cane to mark the boundary. One famous \"Beating the Bounds\" took place around the boundary of St Giles and the area where Tottenham Court Road now stands in central London. The actual stone that marked the boundary is now underneath the Centre Point office tower.\n\nArt\n\nFilm and TV\n\nSee: List of films and TV containing corporal punishment scenes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15021048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15021048", "title": "Dae Kwang", "text": "Dae Kwang\n\nDae Kwang is a Soen Sa Nim and is the current guiding teacher of the Providence Zen Center. He was ordained as a monk in 1987 and received Dharma transmission from Seung Sahn in 1996. He also serves as head abbot of the entire lineage, ranking just below Soeng Hyang (who is guiding teacher).\n\n"}
{"id": "1473120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1473120", "title": "Denis Dutton", "text": "Denis Dutton\n\n\"The phrase \"Dennis Dutton\" redirects here. For fictional characters named \"Dennis Dutton\", see \"The Vertical Hour\" and \"The Crouches\".\" \n\nDenis Laurence Dutton (9 February 1944 – 28 December 2010) was an American philosopher of art, web entrepreneur, and media activist. He was a professor of philosophy at the University of Canterbury in Christchurch, New Zealand. He was also a co-founder and co-editor of the websites Arts & Letters Daily, ClimateDebateDaily.com, and cybereditions.com.\n\nDenis Dutton was born in Los Angeles, California, United States, on 9 February 1944, as the second of four children of William and Thelma Dutton, who were booksellers and founded what became Dutton's Books, a chain of independent bookstores. He grew up in North Hollywood, graduated from North Hollywood High School, and was educated at the University of California, Santa Barbara, where he earned his bachelor's degree in philosophy in 1966 and his PhD in philosophy in 1975. Between taking these degrees, he went to India with the Peace Corps and learned to play sitar. Dutton taught at several American universities, including the University of California, Santa Barbara and the University of Michigan–Dearborn, before emigrating to New Zealand.\n\nDutton started teaching at the University of Canterbury, Christchurch, in 1984. From 2008 to 2010, he was the Head of the Philosophy school in an unofficial capacity and acted briefly as Head of Humanities. At its December 2010 graduation ceremony, the University of Canterbury awarded Dutton a research medal for his work.\n\nHe was a member of the editorial board for \"The Rutherford Journal\".\n\nOn 28 December 2010, Dutton died from cancer.\n\nDutton was best known for the web aggregation site Arts & Letters Daily, which he founded in 1998 and which secured him a place among \"the most influential media personalities in the world\". The site, described as \"the first and foremost aggregator of well-written and well-argued book reviews, essays, and other articles in the realm of ideas\", features links to articles across the web about literature, art, science, and politics, for which Dutton wrote pithy teasers. In recognition of \"Arts & Letters Daily\", Steven Pinker called Dutton a visionary for recognizing that a website \"could be a forum for cutting-edge ideas, not just a way to sell things or entertain the bored\".\n\nDutton served as executive director of Cybereditions, a print on demand publishing company he founded in 2000 which specializes in new and out-of-print copyright works, mostly of a scholarly nature. The editorial board of the company has included other academics such as Frederick Crews, Anthony Grafton and Marjorie Perloff.\n\nDutton wrote on authenticity in art and distinguished between \"nominal authenticity\", in which a work of art is correctly attributed to its author rather than being a forgery, and \"expressive authenticity\", where a work is a true expression of an individual's or a society's values and beliefs.\n\nIn his book \"The Art Instinct\" (2010) Dutton opposes the view that art appreciation is culturally learned, claiming instead that art appreciation stems from evolutionary adaptions made during the Pleistocene. He set out abbreviated versions of his theory in a 2009 Google Talk lecture and a 2010 TED talk.\n\nDutton also argued that progress in the arts and sciences had declined, especially since around 1800.\n\nAs editor of the journal \"Philosophy and Literature\", Dutton ran the Bad Writing Contest, which aimed to \"expose 'pretentious, swaggering gibberish' passed off as scholarship at leading universities\". In 1995, the contest was won by Homi K. Bhabha and Fredric Jameson. In 1998, the contest awarded first place to philosopher and University of California-Berkeley Professor Judith Butler, for a sentence which appeared in the journal \"diacritics.\" Butler defended her work against the charges of academic pedantry and obscurantism in the pages of \"The New York Times\". Dutton then ended the contest.\n\nThe Bad Writing Contest emerged in an intellectual climate dominated by fallout from the Sokal affair, in which the alleged opaqueness and obscurity of postmodern writing came in for criticism: Edward Said, for instance, deplored \"diminishment and incoherence\" in the writings of some of his colleagues and Martha Nussbaum condemned academic writing that was \"ponderous and obscure\".\n\nDutton supported \"conservative ideas\" and was a member of the Libertarian Party for some years.\n\nDutton was one of the founding members and first chair of the NZ Skeptics. His skepticism led him to believe that \"climate change is still an open question\".\n\nHe was also a passionate supporter of public radio. In the early 1990s he founded the lobby group \"The New Zealand Friends of Public Broadcasting\" in response to proposals to devolve New Zealand's two non-commercial public radio stations.\n\nIn 1995 he was appointed to the board of directors of Radio New Zealand, where he served for seven years. After concluding his term as a director, Dr Dutton and Dr John Isles issued a report criticising Radio New Zealand for loss of neutrality in news and current affairs, failure to adhere to charter and opposed to contestable funding of broadcasting.\n\nDutton's publications include:\n\n"}
{"id": "32239682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32239682", "title": "Divyang Vakil", "text": "Divyang Vakil\n\nPandit Divyang Vakil (Gujarati દિવ્યાંગ વકીલ, Hindi दिव्यांग वकील ), is an Indian tabla guru (teacher), composer and philosopher, commonly known as Guruji.\n\nPandit Divyang Vakil began his musical career from early childhood. At the age of 3, he gave his first performance as the youngest drummer in Gujarat performing with a Gujarati orchestra. He formally trained in classical tabla under three Gurus - Pandit Sudhirkumar Saxena of Ajrada gharana, Ustad Latif Ahmed Khan of Delhi gharana and Ustad Allarakha Khan of Punjab gharana. Vakil has also accompanied many of the great masters of Indian classical music including Pt. Nikhil Banerjee and Pt. Maniramji.\n\nOver 15 years ago, Vakil renounced his career as a tabla performer to dedicate himself wholeheartedly to teaching, composing and his spiritual practices.\n\nIn 2009, Vakil (affectionately known as \"Guruji\" to his students) completed his 30th year of teaching tabla. Vakil has taught hundreds of students in his 30 plus years of teaching journey. He is the founder of Rhythm Riders Music Institute in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. An affiliate institute of Rhythm Riders Music Institute is the Taalim School of Indian Music in the US, which is run by American disciples of Vakil. Students of Vakil have also established tabla schools in places such as Australia, Korea, UK and the US. Many of his students have gone on to careers in tabla teaching and performance.\n\nVakil teaches the latest and modern styles of Tabla playing as well as the classical and traditional methods, which he has mastered. His students produce a harmonious compilation of modern and classical aspects of Indian classical music. He caters unique teaching techniques for each student and his/her skills, interest etc. His students don't only learn the commercial and popular form of Tabla but also distinguish spiritual aspects of it.\n\nHe received 'Gujarat Gaurav Puraskar' (Gujarat State honour) by Gujarat sahitya Akademi on 8 December 2014 for his years of contribution in the field of music.\n\nVakil is most well known for his contemporary classical tabla ensemble Tālavya. Through his compositions, Vakil has given a modern form to classical tabla playing. Tālavya currently performs Vakil's latest group tabla composition entitled Tabla Ecstasy. His latest work, Pradhanica, is a kathak dance performance accompanied by a live world percussion ensemble. Pradhanica has been touring around United States. Previous group works include Tabla Tarkhat, Tabla Taandav, Tabla Triveni, etc. In 2007, his tabla duet called Power of Tabla was the first musical performance by Gujarati artists to be performed in the history of IIM-Ahmedabad Chaos Festival.\n\nVakil has composed several full-length instrumental ensemble pieces for the international stage. One of his most difficult works is Ardha Taal Chakra (literally meaning \"circle of half rhythms\"). Ardha Taal Chakra explored half-beat Indian rhythm cycles. Created in 2006, it was recomposed and renamed in 2010 to become Ardha Taal Chakravyuha.\n\nIn 2011, he collaborated with renown South Korean musician Yu Kyung-hwa. Vakil composed a piece for Yu to play on the traditional Korean instrument, the Janggu, and set it to popular Indian rhythms. The piece debuted in February 2011 at Rhythm Riders Music Institute in Ahmedabad, India. The collaboration was such a success that Vakil was invited to Seoul the following month to compose and teach Indian rhythms and theory to Korean artists in an international music exchange program.\n"}
{"id": "950939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=950939", "title": "Equal Protection Clause", "text": "Equal Protection Clause\n\nThe Equal Protection Clause is part of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The clause, which took effect in 1868, provides \"nor shall any State [...] deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws\".\n\nA primary motivation for this clause was to validate the equality provisions contained in the Civil Rights Act of 1866, which guaranteed that all citizens would have the guaranteed right to equal protection by law. As a whole, the Fourteenth Amendment marked a large shift in American constitutionalism, by applying substantially more constitutional restrictions against the states than had applied before the Civil War.\n\nThe meaning of the Equal Protection Clause has been the subject of much debate, and inspired the well-known phrase \"Equal Justice Under Law\". This clause was the basis for \"Brown v. Board of Education\" (1954), the Supreme Court decision that helped to dismantle racial segregation, and also the basis for many other decisions rejecting discrimination against, and bigotry towards, people belonging to various groups.\n\nWhile the Equal Protection Clause itself applies only to state and local governments, the Supreme Court held in \"Bolling v. Sharpe\" (1954) that the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment nonetheless imposes various equal protection requirements on the federal government.\n\nThe Equal Protection Clause is located at the end of Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment:\n\nEquality as a concept has been enshrined in America since the Declaration of Independence. This does not mean that it was a part of daily life or legal practices. Before the passing of the reconstruction amendments, which included the Equal Protection Clause, there were various legal challenges for the rights of Black people in America. Blacks were considered inferior, and up until the Thirteenth Amendment, it was legal to own them as slaves. Even freed Blacks had no legal rights. In fact, in one of the most infamous Supreme Court cases of all time, the Court purported that Black’s in America had no constitutional rights which they could appeal to in society or in the courts. Before this decision there was nothing barring free Black Americans from theoretical access to rights under the law, but in the 1857 Scott v Sanford decision the Supreme Court created a precedence in which Black men, whether free or in bondage, had no legal rights within America. Many historians believed it was this judicial decision that set the United States on the path to the Civil War which would lead the the reconstruction amendments in which the Equal Protection Clause can be found.  \n\nBefore and during the Civil War, the Southern states violated the rights of free speech of pro-Union citizens, anti-slavery advocates, and northerners in general. During the Civil War, the Southern states stripped many white citizens of their state citizenship and banished them from the states, effectively confiscating their property. \nShortly after the Union victory in the American Civil War, the Thirteenth Amendment was proposed by Congress and ratified by the states in 1865, abolishing slavery. Many ex-Confederate states then adopted Black Codes following the war. These laws severely restricted the rights of blacks to hold property, including real property (such as real estate) and many forms of personal property, and to form legally enforceable contracts. These codes also created harsher criminal penalties for blacks than for whites.\n\nBecause of the inequality these Black Codes imposed, Congress enacted the Civil Rights Act of 1866. This Act provided that all those born in the United States were citizens (contrary to the Supreme Court's 1857 decision in \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\"), and required that \"citizens of every race and color ... [have] full and equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of person and property, as is enjoyed by white citizens.\"\n\nPresident Andrew Johnson vetoed the Civil Rights bill of 1866 amid concerns (among other things) that Congress did not have the constitutional authority to pass such a law. Such doubts were one factor that led Congress to begin to draft and debate what would become the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Moreover, Congress wanted to protect white Unionists who were under personal and legal attack in the former Confederacy. The effort was led by the Radical Republicans of both houses of Congress, including John Bingham, Charles Sumner, and Thaddeus Stevens. The most important among these, however, was Bingham, a Congressman from Ohio, who drafted the language of the Equal Protection Clause.\n\nThe Southern states were opposed to the Civil Rights Act, but in 1865 Congress, exercising its power under Article I, section 5, clause 1 of the Constitution, to \"be the Judge of the ... Qualifications of its own Members\", had excluded Southerners from Congress, declaring that their states, having rebelled against the Union, could therefore not elect members to Congress. It was this fact—the fact that the Fourteenth Amendment was enacted by a \"rump\" Congress—that allowed the Equal Protection Clause to be passed by Congress and proposed to the states. Its ratification by the former Confederate states was made a condition of their reacceptance into the Union.\n\nWith the return to originalist interpretations of the Constitution, many wonder what was intended by the framers of the reconstruction amendments at the time of their ratification. The 13th amendment abolished slavery but to what extent it protected other rights was unclear. After the 13th amendment the South began to institute black codes which were restrictive laws seeking to keep Black Americans in a position of inferiority. The 14th amendment was ratified by nervous Republicans in response to the rise of Black codes. This ratification was irregular in many ways. First there were multiple states that rejected the 14th amendment, but when their new governments were created due to reconstruction, these new governments accepted the amendment. There were also two states, Ohio and New Jersey, that accepted the amendment and then later passed resolutions rescinding that acceptance. The nullification of the two state's acceptance was considered illegitimate and both Ohio and New Jersey were included in those counted as ratifying the amendment.\n\nMany historians have argued that 14th amendment was not originally intended to grant sweeping political and social rights to the citizens but instead to solidify the constitutionality of the 1866 Civil rights Act. While it is widely agreed that this was a key reason for the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment, many historians adopt a much wider view. It is a popular interpretation that the Fourteenth Amendment was always meant to ensure equal rights for all those in American. This argument was used by Charles Sumner when he used the 14th amendment as the basis for his arguments to expand the protections afforded to Black Americans.\n\nThough the equal protection clause is one of the most cited ideas in legal theory, it received little attention during the ratification of the 14th amendment. Instead the key tenant of the Fourteenth Amendment at the time of its ratification was the Privileges and Immunities Clause. This clause sought to protect the privileges and immunities of all citizens which now included Black men. The scope of this clause was substantially narrowed following the Slaughterhouse Cases in which it was determined that a citizen's privileges and immunities were only ensured at the Federal level and that it was government overreach to impose this standard on the states . Even in this halting decision the Court still acknowledged the context in which the Amendment was passed, stating that knowing the evils and injustice the 14th amendment was meant to combat is key in our legal understanding of its implications and purpose. With the abridgment of the Privileges and Immunities clause, legal arguments aimed at protecting Black American's rights became more complex and that is when the equal protection clause started to gain attention for the arguments it could enhance.  \n\nDuring the debate in Congress, more than one version of the clause was considered. Here is the first version: \"The Congress shall have power to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper to secure ... to all persons in the several states equal protection in the rights of life, liberty, and property.\" Bingham said about this version: \"It confers upon Congress power to see to it that the protection given by the laws of the States shall be equal in respect to life and liberty and property to all persons.\" The main opponent of the first version was Congressman Robert S. Hale of New York, despite Bingham's public assurances that \"under no possible interpretation can it ever be made to operate in the State of New York while she occupies her present proud position.\"\n\nHale ended up voting for the final version, however. When Senator Jacob Howard introduced that final version, he said:\n\nIt prohibits the hanging of a black man for a crime for which the white man is not to be hanged. It protects the black man in his fundamental rights as a citizen with the same shield which it throws over the white man. Ought not the time to be now passed when one measure of justice is to be meted out to a member of one caste while another and a different measure is meted out to the member of another caste, both castes being alike citizens of the United States, both bound to obey the same laws, to sustain the burdens of the same Government, and both equally responsible to justice and to God for the deeds done in the body?\n\nThe 39th United States Congress proposed the Fourteenth Amendment on June 13, 1866. A difference between the initial and final versions of the clause was that the final version spoke not just of \"equal protection\" but of \"the equal protection of the laws\". John Bingham said in January 1867: \"no State may deny to any person the equal protection of the laws, including all the limitations for personal protection of every article and section of the Constitution ...\" By July 9, 1868, three-fourths of the states (28 of 37) ratified the amendment, and that is when the Equal Protection Clause became law.\n\nBingham said in a speech on March 31, 1871 that the clause meant no State could deny to any one \"the equal protection of the Constitution of the United States ... [or] any of the rights which it guarantees to all men\", nor deny to anyone \"any right secured to him either by the laws and treaties of the United States or of such State.\" At that time, the meaning of equality varied from one state to another. \n\nFour of the original thirteen states never passed any laws barring interracial marriage, and the other states were divided on the issue in the Reconstruction era. In 1872, the Alabama Supreme Court ruled that the state's ban on mixed-race marriage violated the \"cardinal principle\" of the 1866 Civil Rights Act and of the Equal Protection Clause. Almost a hundred years would pass before the U.S. Supreme Court followed that Alabama case (\"Burns v. State\") in the case of \"Loving v. Virginia\". In \"Burns\", the Alabama Supreme Court said:\n\nMarriage is a civil contract, and in that character alone is dealt with by the municipal law. The same right to make a contract as is enjoyed by white citizens, means the right to make any contract which a white citizen may make. The law intended to destroy the distinctions of race and color in respect to the rights secured by it.\n\nAs for public schooling, no states during this era of Reconstruction actually required separate schools for blacks. However, some states (e.g. New York) gave local districts discretion to set up schools that were deemed separate but equal. In contrast, Iowa and Massachusetts flatly prohibited segregated schools ever since the 1850s.\n\nLikewise, some states were more favorable to women's legal status than others; New York, for example, had been giving women full property, parental, and widow's rights since 1860, but not the right to vote. No state or territory allowed women's suffrage when the Equal Protection Clause took effect in 1868. In contrast, African American men had full voting rights in five states, at that time.\n\nIn the United States, the year 1877 marked the end of Reconstruction and the start of the Gilded Age. The first truly landmark equal protection decision by the Supreme Court was \"Strauder v. West Virginia\" (1880). A black man convicted of murder by an all-white jury challenged a West Virginia statute excluding blacks from serving on juries. Exclusion of blacks from juries, the Court concluded, was a denial of equal protection to black defendants, since the jury had been \"drawn from a panel from which the State has expressly excluded every man of [the defendant's] race.\" At the same time, the Court explicitly allowed sexism and other types of discrimination, saying that states \"may confine the selection to males, to freeholders, to citizens, to persons within certain ages, or to persons having educational qualifications. We do not believe the Fourteenth Amendment was ever intended to prohibit this. ... Its aim was against discrimination because of race or color.\"\n\nThe next important postwar case was the \"Civil Rights Cases\" (1883), in which the constitutionality of the Civil Rights Act of 1875 was at issue. The Act provided that all persons should have \"full and equal enjoyment of ... inns, public conveyances on land or water, theatres, and other places of public amusement.\" In its opinion, the Court explicated what has since become known as the \"state action doctrine\", according to which the guarantees of the Equal Protection Clause apply only to acts done or otherwise \"sanctioned in some way\" by the state. Prohibiting blacks from attending plays or staying in inns was \"simply a private wrong\". Justice John Marshall Harlan dissented alone, saying, \"I cannot resist the conclusion that the substance and spirit of the recent amendments of the Constitution have been sacrificed by a subtle and ingenious verbal criticism.\" Harlan went on to argue that because (1) \"public conveyances on land and water\" use the public highways, and (2) innkeepers engage in what is \"a quasi-public employment\", and (3) \"places of public amusement\" are licensed under the laws of the states, excluding blacks from using these services \"was\" an act sanctioned by the state.\nA few years later, Justice Stanley Matthews wrote the Court's opinion in \"Yick Wo v. Hopkins\" (1886). In it the word \"person\" from the 14th Amendment's section has been given the broadest possible meaning by the U.S. Supreme Court: \n\nThese provisions are universal in their application to all persons within the territorial jurisdiction, without regard to any differences of race, of color, or of nationality, and the equal protection of the laws is a pledge of the protection of equal laws. \n\nThus, the Clause would not be limited to discrimination against African Americans, but would extend to other races, colors, and nationalities such as (in this case) legal aliens in the United States who are Chinese citizens.\n\nIn its most contentious Gilded Age interpretation of the Equal Protection Clause, \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" (1896), the Supreme Court upheld a Louisiana Jim Crow law that required the segregation of blacks and whites on railroads and mandated separate railway cars for members of the two races. The Court, speaking through Justice Henry B. Brown, ruled that the Equal Protection Clause had been intended to defend equality in civil rights, not equality in social arrangements. All that was therefore required of the law was reasonableness, and Louisiana's railway law amply met that requirement, being based on \"the established usages, customs and traditions of the people.\" Justice Harlan again dissented. \"Every one knows,\" he wrote,\n\nSuch \"arbitrary separation\" by race, Harlan concluded, was \"a badge of servitude wholly inconsistent with the civil freedom and the equality before the law established by the Constitution.\" Harlan's philosophy of constitutional colorblindness would eventually become more widely accepted, especially after World War II.\n\nIt was also in the Gilded Age that a ruling by the Supreme Court included headnotes written by John C.Bancroft, a former railway company president. Bancroft, acting as court reporter, indicated in the headnotes that corporations were \"persons\", while the actual court decision itself avoided specific statements regarding the Equal Protection Clause as applied to corporations. However, the legal concept of corporate personhood predates the Fourteenth Amendment. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the Clause was used to strike down numerous statutes applying to corporations. Since the New Deal, however, such invalidations have been rare.\n\nThe \"Plessy\" decision was not all bad for civil rights. For example, in \"Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Canada\" (1938), Lloyd Gaines was a black student at Lincoln University of Missouri, one of the historically black colleges in Missouri. He applied for admission to the law school at the all-white University of Missouri, since Lincoln did not have a law school, but was denied admission due solely to his race. The Supreme Court, applying the separate-but-equal principle of \"Plessy\", held that a State offering a legal education to whites but not to blacks violated the Equal Protection Clause.\n\nIn \"Shelley v. Kraemer\" (1948), the Court showed increased willingness to find racial discrimination illegal. The \"Shelley\" case concerned a privately made contract that prohibited \"people of the Negro or Mongolian race\" from living on a particular piece of land. Seeming to go against the spirit, if not the exact letter, of \"The Civil Rights Cases\", the Court found that, although a discriminatory private contract could not violate the Equal Protection Clause, the courts' \"enforcement\" of such a contract could; after all, the Supreme Court reasoned, courts were part of the state.\n\nThe companion cases \"Sweatt v. Painter\" and \"McLaurin v. Oklahoma State Regents\", both decided in 1950, paved the way for a series of school integration cases. In \"McLaurin\", the University of Oklahoma had admitted McLaurin, an African-American, but had restricted his activities there: he had to sit apart from the rest of the students in the classrooms and library, and could eat in the cafeteria only at a designated table. A unanimous Court, through Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, said that Oklahoma had deprived McLaurin of the equal protection of the laws:\n\nThe present situation, Vinson said, was the former. In \"Sweatt\", the Court considered the constitutionality of Texas's state system of law schools, which educated blacks and whites at separate institutions. The Court (again through Chief Justice Vinson, and again with no dissenters) invalidated the school system—not because it separated students, but rather because the separate facilities were not \"equal\". They lacked \"substantial equality in the educational opportunities\" offered to their students.\n\nAll of these cases, as well as the upcoming \"Brown\" case, were litigated by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. It was Charles Hamilton Houston, a Harvard Law School graduate and law professor at Howard University, who in the 1930s first began to challenge racial discrimination in the federal courts. Thurgood Marshall, a former student of Houston's and the future Solicitor General and Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, joined him. Both men were extraordinarily skilled appellate advocates, but part of their shrewdness lay in their careful choice of \"which\" cases to litigate, selecting the best legal proving grounds for their cause.\n\nIn 1954 the contextualization of the equal protection clause would change forever. The Supreme Court itself recognized the gravity of the Brown v Board decision acknowledging that a split decision would be a threat to the role of the Supreme Court and even to the country. When Earl Warren became Chief Justice in 1953, \"Brown\" had already come before the Court. While Vinson was still Chief Justice, there had been a preliminary vote on the case at a conference of all nine justices. At that time, the Court had split, with a majority of the justices voting that school segregation did not violate the Equal Protection Clause. Warren, however, through persuasion and good-natured cajoling—he had been an extremely successful Republican politician before joining the Court—was able to convince all eight associate justices to join his opinion declaring school segregation unconstitutional. In that opinion, Warren wrote:\n\nWarren discouraged other justices, such as Robert H. Jackson, from publishing any concurring opinion; Jackson's draft, which emerged much later (in 1988), included this statement: \"Constitutions are easier amended than social customs, and even the North never fully conformed its racial practices to its professions\". The Court set the case for re-argument on the question of how to implement the decision. In \"Brown II\", decided in 1954, it was concluded that since the problems identified in the previous opinion were local, the solutions needed to be so as well. Thus the court devolved authority to local school boards and to the trial courts that had originally heard the cases. (\"Brown\" was actually a consolidation of four different cases from four different states.) The trial courts and localities were told to desegregate with \"all deliberate speed\".\n\nPartly because of that enigmatic phrase, but mostly because of self-declared \"massive resistance\" in the South to the desegregation decision, integration did not begin in any significant way until the mid-1960s and then only to a small degree. In fact, much of the integration in the 1960s happened in response not to \"Brown\" but to the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Supreme Court intervened a handful of times in the late 1950s and early 1960s, but its next major desegregation decision was not until \"Green v. School Board of New Kent County\" (1968), in which Justice William J. Brennan, writing for a unanimous Court, rejected a \"freedom-of-choice\" school plan as inadequate. This was a significant decision; freedom-of-choice plans had been very common responses to \"Brown\". Under these plans, parents could choose to send their children to either a formerly white or a formerly black school. Whites almost never opted to attend black-identified schools, however, and blacks rarely attended white-identified schools.\n\nIn response to \"Green\", many Southern districts replaced freedom-of-choice with geographically based schooling plans; because residential segregation was widespread, little integration was accomplished. In 1971, the Court in \"Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education\" approved busing as a remedy to segregation; three years later, though, in the case of \"Milliken v. Bradley\" (1974), it set aside a lower court order that had required the busing of students \"between\" districts, instead of merely \"within\" a district. \"Milliken\" basically ended the Supreme Court's major involvement in school desegregation; however, up through the 1990s many federal trial courts remained involved in school desegregation cases, many of which had begun in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nThe curtailment of busing in \"Milliken v. Bradley\" is one of several reasons that have been cited to explain why equalized educational opportunity in the United States has fallen short of completion. In the view of various liberal scholars, the election of Richard Nixon in 1968 meant that the executive branch was no longer behind the Court's constitutional commitments. Also, the Court itself decided in \"San Antonio Independent School District v. Rodriguez\" (1973) that the Equal Protection Clause allows—but does not require—a state to provide equal educational funding to all students within the state. Moreover, the Court's decision in \"Pierce v. Society of Sisters\" (1925) allowed families to opt out of public schools, despite \"inequality in economic resources that made the option of private schools available to some and not to others\", as Martha Minow has put it.\n\nAmerican public school systems, especially in large metropolitan areas, to a large extent are still \"de facto\" segregated. Whether due to \"Brown\", or due to Congressional action, or due to societal change, the percentage of black students attending majority-black school districts decreased somewhat until the early 1980s, at which point that percentage began to increase. By the late 1990s, the percentage of black students in mostly minority school districts had returned to about what it was in the late 1960s. In \"Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School District No. 1\" (2007), the Court held that, if a school system became racially imbalanced due to social factors other than governmental racism, then the state is not as free to integrate schools as if the state had been at fault for the racial imbalance. This is especially evident in the charter school system where parents of students can pick which schools their children attend based on the amenities provided by that school and the needs of the child. It seems that race is a factor in the choice of charter school.\n\nBy its terms, the clause restrains only state governments. However, the Fifth Amendment's due process guarantee, beginning with \"Bolling v. Sharpe\" (1954), has been interpreted as imposing some of the same restrictions on the federal government: \"Though the Fifth Amendment does not contain an equal protection clause, as does the Fourteenth Amendment which applies only to the States, the concepts of equal protection and due process are not mutually exclusive.\" In \"Lawrence v. Texas\" (2003) the Supreme Court added: \"Equality of treatment and the due process right to demand respect for conduct protected by the substantive guarantee of liberty are linked in important respects, and a decision on the latter point advances both interests\" \nSome scholars have argued that the Court's decision in \"Bolling\" should have been reached on other grounds. For example, Michael W. McConnell has written that Congress never \"required that the schools of the District of Columbia be segregated.\" According to that rationale, the segregation of schools in Washington D.C. was unauthorized and therefore illegal.\n\nDespite the undoubted importance of \"Brown\", much of modern equal protection jurisprudence originated in other cases, though not everyone agrees about \"which\" other cases. Some scholars assert that the opinion of Justice Harlan Stone in \"United States v. Carolene Products Co.\" (1938) contained a footnote that was a critical turning point for equal protection jurisprudence, but that assertion is disputed.\n\nWhatever its precise origins, the basic idea of the modern approach is that more judicial scrutiny is triggered by purported discrimination that involves \"fundamental rights\" (such as the right to procreation), and similarly more judicial scrutiny is also triggered if the purported victim of discrimination has been targeted because he or she belongs to a \"suspect classification\" (such as a single racial group). This modern doctrine was pioneered in \"Skinner v. Oklahoma\" (1942), which involved depriving certain criminals of the fundamental right to procreate:\n\nWhen the law lays an unequal hand on those who have committed intrinsically the same quality of offense and sterilizes one and not the other, it has made as invidious a discrimination as if it had selected a particular race or nationality for oppressive treatment.\n\nUntil 1976, the Supreme Court usually ended up dealing with discrimination by using one of two possible levels of scrutiny: what has come to be called \"strict scrutiny\" (when a suspect class or fundamental right is involved), or instead the more lenient \"rational basis review\". Strict scrutiny means that a challenged statute must be \"narrowly tailored\" to serve a \"compelling\" government interest, and must not have a \"less restrictive\" alternative. In contrast, rational basis scrutiny merely requires that a challenged statute be \"reasonably related\" to a \"legitimate\" government interest.\n\nHowever, in the 1976 case of \"Craig v. Boren\", the Court added another tier of scrutiny, called \"intermediate scrutiny\", regarding gender discrimination. The Court may have added other tiers too, such as \"enhanced rational basis\" scrutiny, and \"exceedingly persuasive basis\" scrutiny.\n\nAll of this is known as \"tiered\" scrutiny, and it has had many critics, including Justice Thurgood Marshall who argued for a \"spectrum of standards in reviewing discrimination\", instead of discrete tiers. Justice John Paul Stevens argued for only one level of scrutiny, given that \"there is only one Equal Protection Clause\". The whole tiered strategy developed by the Court is meant to reconcile the principle of equal protection with the reality that most laws necessarily discriminate in some way.\n\nChoosing the standard of scrutiny can determine the outcome of a case, and the strict scrutiny standard is often described as \"strict in theory and fatal in fact\". In order to select the correct level of scrutiny, Justice Antonin Scalia urged the Court to identify rights as \"fundamental\" or identify classes as \"suspect\" by analyzing what was understood when the Equal Protection Clause was adopted, instead of based upon more subjective factors.\n\nBecause inequalities can be caused either intentionally or unintentionally, the Supreme Court has decided that the Equal Protection Clause itself does not forbid governmental policies that unintentionally lead to racial disparities, though Congress may have some power under other clauses of the Constitution to address unintentional disparate impacts. This subject was addressed in the seminal case of \"Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Corp.\" (1977). In that case, the plaintiff, a housing developer, sued a city in the suburbs of Chicago that had refused to re-zone a plot of land on which the plaintiff intended to build low-income, racially integrated housing. On the face, there was no clear evidence of racially discriminatory intent on the part of Arlington Heights's planning commission. The result was racially disparate, however, since the refusal supposedly prevented mostly African-Americans and Hispanics from moving in. Justice Lewis Powell, writing for the Court, stated, \"Proof of racially discriminatory intent or purpose is required to show a violation of the Equal Protection Clause.\" Disparate impact merely has an evidentiary value; absent a \"stark\" pattern, \"impact is not determinative.\"\n\nThe result in \"Arlington Heights\" was similar to that in \"Washington v. Davis\" (1976), and has been defended on the basis that the Equal Protection Clause was not designed to guarantee equal outcomes, but rather equal opportunities; if a legislature wants to correct unintentional but racially disparate effects, it may be able to do so through further legislation. It is possible for a discriminating state to hide its true intention, and one possible solution is for disparate impact to be considered as stronger evidence of discriminatory intent. This debate, though, is currently academic, since the Supreme Court has not changed its basic approach as outlined in \"Arlington Heights\".\n\nFor an example of how this rule limits the Court's powers under the Equal Protection Clause, see \"McClesky v. Kemp\" (1987). In that case a black man was convicted of murdering a white police officer and sentenced to death in the state of Georgia. A study found that killers of whites were more likely to be sentenced to death than were killers of blacks. The Court found that the defense had failed to prove that such data demonstrated the requisite discriminatory intent by the Georgia legislature and executive branch.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruled in \"Nixon v. Herndon\" (1927) that the Fourteenth Amendment prohibited denial of the vote based on race. The first modern application of the Equal Protection Clause to voting law came in \"Baker v. Carr\" (1962), where the Court ruled that the districts that sent representatives to the Tennessee state legislature were so malapportioned (with some legislators representing ten times the number of residents as others) that they violated the Equal Protection Clause.\n\nIt may seem counterintuitive that the Equal Protection Clause should provide for equal voting rights; after all, it would seem to make the Fifteenth Amendment and the Nineteenth Amendment redundant. Indeed, it was on this argument, as well as on the legislative history of the Fourteenth Amendment, that Justice John M. Harlan (the grandson of the earlier Justice Harlan) relied in his dissent from \"Reynolds\". Harlan quoted the congressional debates of 1866 to show that the framers did not intend for the Equal Protection Clause to extend to voting rights, and in reference to the Fifteenth and Nineteenth Amendments, he said:\n\nHarlan also relied on the fact that Section Two of the Fourteenth Amendment \"expressly recognizes the States' power to deny 'or in any way' abridge the right of their inhabitants to vote for 'the members of the [state] Legislature.'\" Section Two of the Fourteenth Amendment provides a specific federal response to such actions by a state: reduction of a state's representation in Congress. However, the Supreme Court has instead responded that voting is a \"fundamental right\" on the same plane as marriage (\"Loving v. Virginia\"); for any discrimination in fundamental rights to be constitutional, the Court requires the legislation to pass strict scrutiny. Under this theory, equal protection jurisprudence has been applied to voting rights.\n\nA recent use of equal protection doctrine came in \"Bush v. Gore\" (2000). At issue was the controversial recount in Florida in the aftermath of the 2000 presidential election. There, the Supreme Court held that the different standards of counting ballots across Florida violated the equal protection clause. It was not this holding that proved especially controversial among commentators, and indeed, the proposition gained seven out of nine votes; Justices Souter and Breyer joined the majority of five—but only, it should be emphasized, for the finding that there was an Equal Protection violation. Much more controversial was the remedy that the Court chose, namely, the cessation of a statewide recount.\n\nOriginally, the Fourteenth Amendment did not forbid sex discrimination to the same extent as other forms of discrimination. On the one hand, Section Two of the amendment specifically discouraged states from interfering with the voting rights of \"males\", which made the amendment anathema to many women when it was proposed in 1866. On the other hand, as feminists like Victoria Woodhull pointed out, the word \"person\" in the Equal Protection Clause was apparently chosen deliberately, instead of a masculine term that could have easily been used instead.\n\nIn 1971, the U.S. Supreme Court decided \"Reed v. Reed,\" extending the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to protect women from sex discrimination, in situations where there is no rational basis for the discrimination. That level of scrutiny was boosted to an intermediate level in \"Craig v. Boren\" (1976).\n\nThe Court's decision in \"Romer v. Evans\" (1996) struck down a Colorado constitutional amendment aimed at denying homosexuals \"minority status, quota preferences, protected status or [a] claim of discrimination.\" The Court rejected as \"implausible\" the dissent's argument that the amendment would not deprive homosexuals of general protections provided to everyone else but rather would merely prevent \"special treatment of homosexuals.\" Much as in \"City of Cleburne\", the \"Romer\" decision seemed to employ a markedly higher level of scrutiny than the nominally applied rational-basis test.\n\nIn \"Lawrence v. Texas\" (2003), the Court struck down a Texas statute prohibiting homosexual sodomy on substantive due process grounds. In Justice Sandra Day O'Connor's opinion concurring in the judgment, however, she argued that by prohibiting only \"homosexual\" sodomy, and not \"heterosexual\" sodomy as well, Texas's statute did not meet rational-basis review under the Equal Protection Clause; her opinion prominently cited \"City of Cleburne\", and also relied in part on \"Romer\". Notably, O'Connor's opinion did not claim to apply a higher level of scrutiny than mere rational basis, and the Court has not extended suspect-class status to sexual orientation.\n\nWhile the courts have applied rational-basis scrutiny to classifications based on sexual orientation, it has been argued that discrimination based on sex should be interpreted to include discrimination based on sexual orientation, in which case intermediate scrutiny could apply to gay rights cases. Other scholars disagree, arguing that \"homophobia\" is distinct from sexism, in a sociological sense, and so treating it as such would be an unacceptable judicial shortcut.\n\nIn 2013, the Court struck down part of the federal Defense of Marriage Act, in \"United States v. Windsor\". No state statute was in question, and therefore the Equal Protection Clause did not apply. The Court did employ similar principles, however, in combination with federalism principles. The Court did not purport to use any level of scrutiny more demanding than rational basis review, according to law professor Erwin Chemerinsky. The four dissenting justices argued that the authors of the statute were rational.\n\nIn 2015, the Supreme Court held in a 5–4 decision that the fundamental right to marry is guaranteed to same-sex couples by both the Due Process Clause and the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution and required all states to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples and to recognize same-sex marriages validly performed in other jurisdictions.\n\nAffirmative action is the consideration of race, gender, or other factors, to benefit an underrepresented group or to address past injustices done to that group. Individuals who belong to the group are preferred over those who do not belong to the group, for example in educational admissions, hiring, promotions, awarding of contracts, and the like. Such action may be used as a \"tie-breaker\" if all other factors are inconclusive, or may be achieved through quotas, which allot a certain number of benefits to each group.\n\nDuring Reconstruction, Congress enacted race-conscious programs primarily to assist newly freed slaves who had personally been denied many advantages earlier in their lives. Such legislation was enacted by many of the same people who framed the Equal Protection Clause, though that clause did not apply to such federal legislation, and instead only applied to state legislation. Likewise, the Equal Protection Clause does not apply to private universities and other private businesses, which are free to practice affirmative action unless prohibited by federal statute or state law.\n\nSeveral important affirmative action cases to reach the Supreme Court have concerned government contractors—for instance, \"Adarand Constructors v. Peña\" (1995) and \"City of Richmond v. J.A. Croson Co.\" (1989). But the most famous cases have dealt with affirmative action as practiced by public universities: \"Regents of the University of California v. Bakke\" (1978), and two companion cases decided by the Supreme Court in 2003, \"Grutter v. Bollinger\" and \"Gratz v. Bollinger\".\n\nIn \"Bakke\", the Court held that racial quotas are unconstitutional, but that educational institutions could legally use race as one of many factors to consider in their admissions process. In \"Grutter\" and \"Gratz\", the Court upheld both \"Bakke\" as a precedent and the admissions policy of the University of Michigan Law School. In dicta, however, Justice O'Connor, writing for the Court, said she expected that in 25 years, racial preferences would no longer be necessary. In \"Gratz\", the Court invalidated Michigan's undergraduate admissions policy, on the grounds that unlike the law school's policy, which treated race as one of many factors in an admissions process that looked to the individual applicant, the undergraduate policy used a point system that was excessively mechanistic.\n\nIn these affirmative action cases, the Supreme Court has employed, or has said it employed, strict scrutiny, since the affirmative action policies challenged by the plaintiffs categorized by race. The policy in \"Grutter\", and a Harvard College admissions policy praised by Justice Powell's opinion in \"Bakke\", passed muster because the Court deemed that they were narrowly tailored to achieve a compelling interest in diversity. On one side, critics have argued—including Justice Clarence Thomas in his dissent to \"Grutter\"—that the scrutiny the Court has applied in some cases is much less searching than true strict scrutiny, and that the Court has acted not as a principled legal institution but as a biased political one. On the other side, it is argued that the purpose of the Equal Protection Clause is to prevent the socio-political subordination of some groups by others, not to prevent classification; since this is so, non-invidious classifications, such as those used by affirmative action programs, should not be subjected to heightened scrutiny.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6970755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6970755", "title": "Erich Heller", "text": "Erich Heller\n\nErich Heller (27 March 1911 – 5 November 1990) was a British essayist, known particularly for his critical studies in German-language philosophy and literature of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.\n\nHeller was born at Chomutov in Bohemia (then within Austria-Hungary, now the Czech Republic), to the family of a Jewish physician. He graduated a doctor of law from the German University in Prague (Deutsche Universität in Prag, Juridische Fakultät) on 11 February 1935, at the age of 23. In 1939 he emigrated to the United Kingdom, where he began his professional career as a Germanist, being active at Cambridge and London (England) and at Swansea (Wales). Heller became a British subject in 1947. From 1960 onwards he was based in the United States, primarily at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, where he was initially Professor of German, and subsequently Avalon Professor of the Humanities until his retirement in 1979.\n\nFor Heller, German letters as an academic discipline was something of an avocation, a marriage of convenience to supply a vehicle for the conveyance of thought of a wider scope. He kept a certain distance from the scholarly community around him, believing (with Jacob Burckhardt) this community's pedantry and unremitting quest for precision to be 'one of the most cunning enemies of truth', their cumulative effect being 'the absence of true comprehension'.\n\nNot a religious philosopher (and an agnostic by personal persuasion), he could show religious sensibility, as when he wrote, in an essay on Heinrich von Kleist that bridges Heideggerian and Biblical idioms, that:\n\nHeller accepted the Fall, or rather its philosophical consequences. Writing elsewhere about Friedrich von Schiller Heller states that Schiller presented \n\nHeller's \"The Disinherited Mind\", a seminal work published in 1952 (US ed., expanded, 1957), earned him a following among intellectuals. The project of \"The Disinherited Mind\" was to analyse the disappearance of Truth from the immediate environment of man, and the ensuing compulsions of Art to fill the void. Such an intervention on the part of Art, in the circumstances, results in the impoverishment of the world, not in its enrichment. It entails the loss of 'significant external reality'.\n\n\"The Disinherited Mind\" was first published in Britain; two years later it was issued under the title \"Enterbter Geist\" by Suhrkamp in Frankfurt. An Italian translation followed in 1965, and a Japanese rendering in 1969.\n\nFor Heller, Truth could be defined in the terms proposed by Paul Roubiczek in \"Thinking in Opposites\", a book that appeared in the same year as did \"The Disinherited Mind\": Truth must be \"embodied\" in external reality. (Heller says the same in \"The Disinherited Mind\" when he points out that the question, What is Truth? becomes irrelevant 'in the face of its embodiment'.) Roubiczek's grasp of the meaning of Truth is more philosophical than Goethe's, according to whom Truth is 'a revelation emerging at the point where the inner world of man meets external reality...'\n\nHeller saw Truth as the first casualty of the mechanistic theory of nature, set on its course by Darwin and others, which in alliance with applied sciences roots out the intrinsic meaning of things in favour of the 'how?' of their causal interrelatedness. The thing in itself is forgotten, and with it the meaning of Reality as such. Such theories succeed merely in feeding 'the body of superstitious beliefs that had grown rampant ever since medieval scholasticism suffered its final defeat at the hands of Francis Bacon'.\n\nThis process, of Reality's being eviscerated of deeper meaning in the course of being 'explained' by modern science, constitutes the main charge that Heller laid against supporters of what he called the Creed of Ontological Invalidity. The practical result of its implementation is that nothing can exist in and of itself: things' scientific explanation deprives them of their individual \"being\" as entities and reduces them to the position of mere links in a much more broadly conceived chain. Here there are echoes — and indeed a defence — of Martin Heidegger's \"das Sein des Seinden\", although Heller would probably have rejected these. This state of affairs leads to spiritual perdition, he felt, whereby man's own true significance as a higher being (his 'ontological mystery') is obscured, and whereby any attempt at a meaningful response to the world is stymied. For such a response can only take place \"vis-à-vis\" the question of what the world fundamentally \"is\", not simply how it works.\n\nThe meaningful response that the fully realised human being makes to the world differs from the attitude of the frog-in-the-well scientist in the most fundamental of ways: the former — through his theorising, which is the 'highest intellectual achievement' — actually shapes the Reality, rather than passively 'recording' it in the manner of the latter whose mere 'looking at a thing is of no use whatsoever'. Heller's best-known quotation is: \"Be careful how you interpret the world; it \"is\" like that.\" The admonition is not addressed to those who 'find and accept' (as he put it), but to those who through the 'intuitive, visionary faculty of... [their] genius' essentially \"create\" the world we know.\n\nAn objection levelled against \"The Disinherited Mind\" (and registered in the Postscript, Part 4 of the essay entitled \"The Hazard of Modern Poetry,\" which Heller appended to the US edition of 1957) was that the \"Weltanschauung\" at the heart of its critique was in some aspects excessively \"Holocaust-centric\". (Heller took exception to this term, preferring the English word 'genocide', or the Semitic words \"sho'ah\" and \"hurban\" (Hebrew, 'annihilation'), to 'Holocaust'.)\n\nHeller chose not to contest this charge. However, the book itself throws some light on this question. In the chapter 'Goethe and the Avoidance of Tragedy', a non-Jewish philosopher of stature, Karl Jaspers, is quoted on Goethe's having become – in an important sense – obsolete after 1945. This is on account of his inadequate grasp of the problems of theodicy, that is, chiefly, of the problem of the existence of Evil. The question posed is not whether the Holocaust was central to Erich Heller (as it was to all the Jews who survived), but whether any human being can avoid being conscious of its centrality.\n\nFor Heller, the Body was central to human identity. The Body was the \"principium individuationis\" (in the sense in that Nietzsche understood or misunderstood that expression, which was good enough for Heller). He once confessed privately that it is precisely because religions like Christianity offered a redemption that, for him, entailed the greatest sacrilege – a divestiture of the Body in Paradise in favour of some 'transfigured' entity that seemed to merge the individual personhood, eschatologically speaking, into a single collective state of all the blessed – it is for this reason that he was not interested in those religions. The Holocaust had a theological dimension for him, also. With its mass destruction of bodies it violated the principle of the sacred, of the spiritual, as manifested in the world. For Heller, the spiritual was never not a tissue of 'vague abstractions': it was always incarnate. The spiritual needed the Body in exactly the same measure in which it needed transcendence: the spiritual had to be 'known and felt to be real'. ‘Genius’ alone, he once wrote, 'is never the whole man'.\n\nHeller points out that Nietzsche's and Rilke's opposition to \"valid\" distinctions — in particular Nietzsche's \"relativisation of Good and Evil\" — was an over-reaction. It took against what both writers diagnosed as the 'barbarism of concepts' of a 'crudely interpreted world' (the expression is Nietzsche's), whereby the dual aspects of immanence and transcendence — closer to each other than human thought has been prepared to allow over the centuries — open the floodgates to a series of specious distinctions. Pre-eminent among the latter is the false distinction between thought and feeling. But, in their zeal to uncover the fraud of such bifurcations, the two thinkers carry their denunciation too far: Nietzsche, in particular, overstates his case when he links Good with Evil.\n\nIn a critique of T. S. Eliot's views on Shakespeare – who supposedly modelled himself on Montaigne in formulating the character of Hamlet – Heller took a commonsensical approach to \"literary borrowing\". His position has broader applications. Eliot – Heller writes —\n\nHeller adduces another case in point: 'If Dante's thought is Thomas Aquinas's, it is yet Dante's: not only by virtue of imaginative sympathy and assimilation, and certainly not as a reward for the supply of an \"emotional equivalent\" [\"sc.\" in its unique capacity as poetry]. It is Dante's property by birthright. He has reborn it within himself –– poetically.' \n\nThe argument preempts criticism of Heller's philosophy, based on its roots in Nietzsche and Rilke, and (\"mutatis mutandis\") of Kafka. The title of \"The Disinherited Mind\" itself might have been suggested by Rilke's Seventh Elegy.\n\nBibliographies are a dull business (as Erich Heller remarks in his 'The Last Days of Mankind'). \"The Disinherited Mind\" was followed by another collection of essays, \"The Artist’s Journey into the Interior\" (1965; German ed., \"Die Reise der Kunst ins Innere und andere Essays\", 1966; Japanese translation, 1972); then by \"The Poet’s Self and the Poem: Essays on Goethe, Nietzsche, Rilke and Thomas Mann\" (1976); and finally by \"Im Zeitalter der Prosa: literarische und philosophische Essays\", published simultaneously in German and in English editions (the latter under the title \"In the Age of Prose: Literary and Philosophical Essays\") in 1984.\n\nHeller’s early article on Karl Kraus, 'The Last Days of Mankind', was originally published in the \"Cambridge Journal\" in 1948, its title taken from one of Kraus's plays, \"Die letzten Tage der Menschheit\" (1919).\n\nHeller's German-language \"Nietzsche: 3 Essays\" appeared in 1964, establishing him as an authority on Friedrich Nietzsche. An English-language collection of –– chiefly cross-cultural –– essays on the subject was brought out by the University of Chicago Press as \"The Importance of Nietzsche\" in 1988 to wide acclaim on both sides of the Atlantic. The collection was posthumously published in Germany four years later. His essay on ‘Wittgenstein and Nietzsche’ appears in \"Portraits of Wittgenstein\" (1999).\n\nHeller also contributed an introduction to R. J. Hollingdale's (1930–2001) translation of Nietzsche's \"Menschliches, Allzumenschliches\" (\"Human, All Too Human\"), published by Cambridge University Press in 1986.\n\nAlready in 1940, soon after his arrival at Cambridge, the 29-year-old Heller annotated a collection of Thomas Mann's short stories for a British publisher. Thomas Mann's writings were collectively the subject of Heller's doctoral dissertation, written under the supervision of Edwin Keppel Bennett (1887–1958), which was presented to the University of Cambridge (where, it may be noted, he was a member of Peterhouse and the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages) in February 1949: in this work he considered Mann's \"corpus\" in relation to the main currents of thought in nineteenth-century Germany.\n\nHeller's well-known study of Thomas Mann (\"The Ironic German\", 1958; German ed., \"Thomas Mann, der ironische Deutsche\", 1959; Jap. transl. (from the revised German), \"Tômasu Man: hangoteki doitsu-jin\", 1975) is based on information derived from his personal acquaintance of the subject. Gabriel Josipovici (b. 1940) called it in March 2006 one 'of the most important books in my intellectual formation'.\n\nLater, Heller would also write an introduction to the 1972 reissue of Kenneth Burke's translation of Thomas Mann's \"Der Tod in Venedig\" (originally published in 1925), and to the American translation of Mann's \"Wagner und unsere Zeit\" (ed. Erika Mann).\n\nHeller shared Franz Kafka's background. He also studied at the same university, in the same department, and took the same degree as did Kafka, 29 years before him. The essay on Kafka (\"Kafka\", London: Fontana Modern Masters, 1974; US ed., \"Franz Kafka\", New York, 1975) is still valuable for its author's synthesis of his subject's multifaceted, cross-pollinated mindset and cultural heritage. Decades before this essay was published Heller had used the expression negative transcendence, for which he is still remembered, to describe the particular quality of the visible reality adumbrated in Kafka's compositions, and particularly discernible in \"The Castle\". \n\nIn Kafka’s world, contingent reality has been completely unhitched from the realm of the intelligible, from Truth that is—a positivistically ruled domain where the mutual causal relations between things preclude any reference to the transcendent in the elucidation of their meaning. Yet, it is the transcendent that constitutes a major part of that meaning (if indeed it does not exhaust it completely). In this situation, the meaning of reality methodically purged of what are taken to be illegitimate, because scientifically ‘unprovable’, elements becomes truncated, grossly incomplete, thereby producing a spiritual vacuum that, sealed off (as it were) ‘from above’, has no choice but to resolve the tension between the void and the plenum by sucking up ‘from below’ the stuff from Hell to replenish itself with. This is \"negative transcendence\". For where the positive values are suppressed, Evil will take over with the force and inevitability of a physical necessity. One might call it Heller’s law.\n\nErich Heller had earlier been, famously, the co-editor of Kafka’s love-letters addressed to Felice Bauer (1887–1960), the revealing 782-page \"Briefe an Felice...\", published in 1967, to which he wrote an introduction that became something of a classic in itself, being retained for the French translation of the correspondence in question. Subsequently Heller also contributed an introduction to an English translation of \"Der Prozess\", and edited Kafka's \"Der Dichter über sein Werk\", and his \"Über das Schreiben\".\n\nA selection of his essays on Nietzsche, Thomas Mann, T. S. Eliot, and Karl Kraus appeared in Germany in 1977 under the title \"Die Wiederkehr der Unschuld\": this collection includes the beautiful essay 'Vom Menschen, der sich schämt' in which Erich Heller surveys the human attitude the Greeks called \"aidos\", as manifested in later history. \"Die Wiederkehr der Unschuld\" followed upon essays on Rilke, \"Nirgends wird Welt sein als innen\" (1975), and \"Essays über Goethe\", which saw the light of day in 1970. These in turn were preceded by his \"Studien zur modernen Literatur\" of 1963. His article ‘Karl Kraus und die schwarze Magie der Sprache’ appeared in \"Der Monat\" (VI/64) in 1954; while his paper on Rilke, ‘Improvisationen zur ersten der Duineser Elegien’, presented at a congress in Italy in 1982, is published in a collective volume.\n\nHeller corresponded with a number of thinkers of his day, whose names include (in the chronological order of the date of birth, not necessarily in the order of the respective correspondents’ importance) the following.\n\nPerhaps his most notable correspondent had been Hannah Arendt.\n\nMany important biographical details shared with him by other writers could only with the greatest difficulty, if at all, find their way into conventional studies and biographies, and remain hidden from public view (such as, for example, Thomas Mann's verbal confession, made to Heller, concerning the circumstances attending upon the destruction, by his own hand, of his early diaries [their homosexual content was the immediate cause], or another concerning his reading and re-reading of Xenophon's \"Symposium\" 'nine times' before writing his own narrative on love's vicissitudes, \"Der Tod in Venedig\").\n\nErich Heller's vivid intellect made him on occasion a principled controversialist, as evidenced by his long-running –– and sometimes acrimonious –– public exchanges with another prominent British Germanist, T. J. Reed, in the weekly pages of the \"Times Literary Supplement\" in the 1970s.\n\nHeller was a lifelong bachelor who cultivated several meaningful intellectual friendships, including with the Chicago writer Joseph Epstein. W. H. Auden is also known to have been an early friend.\n\nAlthough he apparently never sought to become a citizen of the United States, a country where he spent upwards of a third of his life, Heller nevertheless had a deep respect for American democracy, which he felt embodied values directly opposed to those that informed the political realities of the Central Europe he fled in 1939. This pietistic stance however never prevented him from espousing views considered by the mainstream opinion in America to be outdated or otherwise 'politically incorrect' whenever he thought them valid on objective grounds; nor did he shrink from considering America an intellectual desert.\n\nMuch interested in the thought of Nietzsche and Wittgenstein (he contributed a 'Vorwort zum \"Tractatus logico-philosophicus), Heller had also a natural attraction for the basic issues raised by Martin Heidegger in his works on Being, which were directly relevant to his own reflections on the nature of Reality. An obstacle to a deeper analysis of Heidegger's \"œuvre\" was presented by that writer's questionable but imperfectly explored association with National Socialism. At an early stage in his life Heller, in a bid to 'absolve' Heidegger in his own mind, went so far as to undertake a special trip to post-war Germany to meet the renowned philosopher in person; but his 'Why?' was met by stony silence. The encounter seemed to convince Heller that there was little one could add, by way of moral comment on Heidegger, that has not been expressed in Paul Celan's poem 'Todtnauberg', written later but in similar circumstances, with its well-known \"topos\" of suffocation at what Celan calls \"Krudes\" (an instance of smuttiness).\n\nThis turn of events must needs be adjudged a most unfortunate one, given that much of Heller's best thought can be viewed as a continuation in one sense or another of Heidegger's preoccupation with Being; certainly Heidegger's \"Sein und Zeit\", in its original edition, was a prized possession and remained part of Heller's personal library to his last day (surviving the substantial paring down of his collection upon his moving into a retirement home in the final stages of his life). It is possible, and indeed probable, that if the outcome of his meeting with Heidegger, which might have taken place \"c\".1947, had been more positive in providing answers to some of the burning questions, the final shape of \"The Disinherited Mind\", Heller's first book, would have been substantially different, and that we would have been presented therein with manifold instances of direct engagement with Heidegger's propositions. As things stand, there are just a couple of perfunctory references to Heidegger in this, \"nolens volens\", most 'Heideggerian' of books. (Those references do nevertheless reveal intimate acquaintance with his thought.) Just as Heidegger had not a single word for Heller during their meeting, so also he has barely a word to spare for Heidegger.\n\nOn his 65th birthday in 1976 (the year of Heidegger's death) Erich Heller was presented with a commemorative volume of Goethe studies written in his honour, entitled \"Versuche zu Goethe\" (ed. Volker Dürr and Géza von Molnár), which includes an extensive bibliography of his own works.\n\nAnother tribute from an unexpected quarter came five years later from the aforementioned Hans Egon Holthusen (see Life in Letters, above), who also taught at Northwestern between 1968 and 1981, and who, despite the criticisms meted out to him in \"The Disinherited Mind\", delivered himself of a ‘Geburtstagsgruß an Erich Heller’ in \"Merkur\" (35, 1981; pp. 340–342) on the occasion of Heller’s 70th birthday.\n\nErich Heller died on 5 November 1990 in a retirement home in Evanston, Illinois. He was 79. His body was subsequently cremated. His library, including the complete set of the Musarion-\"Ausgabe\" of Nietzsche’s works with which he never parted during his lifetime, became dispersed among second-hand bookshops.\n\nHeller's personal papers, including private correspondence and manuscripts, are preserved in parts at the Northwestern University Archives in Evanston, and in parts at the Deutsches Literaturarchiv (Schiller-Nationalmuseum) in the southwestern German city of Marbach am Neckar (Baden-Württemberg). The files of the Northwestern University Archives contain some photographs. The Library of Congress in Washington, D.C., for its part, holds facsimiles of some of his letters (in particular those addressed to Hannah Arendt and Robert B. Silvers), in addition to the sound recordings of two of his lectures, the one on 'The Modern German Mind: The Legacy of Nietzsche’, which he delivered in the Coolidge Auditorium of the Library of Congress on 8 February 1960, the other on ‘The Works of Nietzsche’, recorded in 1974.\n\nIn 2015, Random House published Reading Claudius: A Memoir in Two Parts by Erich Heller's niece, Caroline, the daughter of his brother Paul. In the book, Caroline Heller writes of her father, mother, and uncle's lives in pre-war Prague, emphasizing the rich mix of the cultural, literary, and political before the Nazi invasion. She writes of her mother and uncle's escape from Prague as Hitler's power grew, as well as Paul Heller's arrest by the Gestapo the night Hitler invaded Poland. Reading Claudius uses excerpts from Paul Heller's writings to chronicle his six years subsequent years in Buchenwald and Auschwitz. Reading Claudius received praise from the Sunday New York Times Book Review and the Boston Globe, among other newspapers and journals. \n\nErich Heller lacks an entry in the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", as he does in Bautz’ \"Biographisch-Bibliographisches Kirchenlexikon\", although he does command a mention in the \"Brockhaus Enzyklopädie\".\n\nThe sources listed below provide further information on the man and his thought or document the latter’s reception.\n\n"}
{"id": "2915834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2915834", "title": "Error threshold (evolution)", "text": "Error threshold (evolution)\n\nIn evolutionary biology and population genetics, the error threshold (or critical mutation rate) is a limit on the number of base pairs a self-replicating molecule may have before mutation will destroy the information in subsequent generations of the molecule. The error threshold is crucial to understanding \"Eigen's paradox\".\n\nThe error threshold is a concept in the origins of life (abiogenesis), in particular of very early life, before the advent of DNA. It is postulated that the first self-replicating molecules might have been small ribozyme-like RNA molecules. These molecules consist of strings of base pairs or \"digits\", and their order is a code that directs how the molecule interacts with its environment. All replication is subject to mutation error. During the replication process, each digit has a certain probability of being replaced by some other digit, which changes the way the molecule interacts with its environment, and may increase or decrease its fitness, or ability to reproduce, in that environment.\n\nIt was noted by Manfred Eigen in his 1971 paper (Eigen 1971) that this mutation process places a limit on the number of digits a molecule may have. If a molecule exceeds this critical size, the effect of the mutations become overwhelming and a runaway mutation process will destroy the information in subsequent generations of the molecule. The error threshold is also controlled by the fitness landscape for the molecules. Molecules that differ only by a few mutations may be thought of as \"close\" to each other, while those that differ by many mutations are distant from each other. Molecules that are very fit, and likely to reproduce, have a \"high\" fitness, those less fit have \"low\" fitness.\n\nThese ideas of proximity and height form the intuitive concept of the \"fitness landscape\". If a particular sequence and its neighbors have a high fitness, they will form a quasispecies and will be able to support longer sequence lengths than a fit sequence with few fit neighbors, or a less fit neighborhood of sequences. Also, it was noted by Wilke (Wilke 2005) that the error threshold concept does not apply in portions of the landscape where there are lethal mutations, in which the induced mutation yields zero fitness and prohibits the molecule from reproducing.\n\nEigen's paradox is one of the most intractable puzzles in the study of the origins of life. It is thought that the error threshold concept described above limits the size of self replicating molecules to perhaps a few hundred digits, yet almost all life on earth requires much longer molecules to encode their genetic information. This problem is handled in living cells by enzymes that repair mutations, allowing the encoding molecules to reach sizes on the order of millions of base pairs. These large molecules must, of course, encode the very enzymes that repair them, and herein lies Eigen's paradox, first put forth by Manfred Eigen in his 1971 paper (Eigen 1971). Simply stated, Eigen's paradox amounts to the following:\n\n\nThis is a chicken-or-egg kind of a paradox, with an even more difficult solution. Which came first, the large genome or the error correction enzymes? A number of solutions to this paradox have been proposed:\n\n\nConsider a 3-digit molecule [A,B,C] where A, B, and C can take on the values 0 and 1. There are eight such sequences ([000], [001], [010], [011], [100], [101], [110], and [111]). Let's say that the [000] molecule is the most fit; upon each replication it produces an average of formula_1 copies, where formula_2. This molecule is called the \"master sequence\". The other seven sequences are less fit; they each produce only 1 copy per replication. The replication of each of the three digits is done with a mutation rate of μ. In other words, at every replication of a digit of a sequence, there is a probability formula_3 that it will be erroneous; 0 will be replaced by 1 or vice versa. Let's ignore double mutations and the death of molecules (the population will grow infinitely), and divide the eight molecules into three classes depending on their Hamming distance from the master sequence:\n\nNote that the number of sequences for distance \"d\" is just the binomial coefficient formula_4 for L=3, and that each sequence can be visualized as the vertex of an L=3 dimensional cube, with each edge of the cube specifying a mutation path in which the change Hamming distance is either zero or ±1. It can be seen that, for example, one third of the mutations of the [001] molecules will produce [000] molecules, while the other two thirds will produce the class 2 molecules [011] and [101]. We can now write the expression for the child populations formula_5 of class \"i\" in terms of the parent populations formula_6.\n\nwhere the matrix \"'w\"’ that incorporates natural selection and mutation, according to quasispecies model, is given by:\n\nwhere formula_9 is the probability that an entire molecule will be replicated successfully. The eigenvectors of the w matrix will yield the equilibrium population numbers for each class. For example, if the mutation rate μ is zero, we will have Q=1, and the equilibrium concentrations will be formula_10. The master sequence, being the fittest will be the only one to survive. If we have a replication fidelity of Q=0.95 and genetic advantage of a=1.05, then the equilibrium concentrations will be roughly formula_11. It can be seen that the master sequence is not as dominant, however, sequences with low Hamming distance are in majority. If we have a replication fidelity of Q approaching 0, then the equilibrium concentrations will be roughly formula_12. This is a population with equal number of each of 8 sequences. (If we had perfectly equal population of all sequences, we would have populations of [1,3,3,1]/8.)\n\nIf we now go to the case where the number of base pairs is large, say L=100, we obtain behavior that resembles a phase transition. The plot below on the left shows a series of equilibrium concentrations divided by the binomial coefficient formula_13.\n(This multiplication will show the population for an individual sequence at that distance, and will yield a flat line for an equal distribution.) The selective advantage of the master sequence is set at a=1.05. The horizontal axis is the Hamming distance \"d\" . The various curves are for various total mutation rates formula_14. It is seen that for low values of the total mutation rate, the population consists of a quasispecies gathered in the neighborhood of the master sequence. Above a total mutation rate of about 1-Q=0.05, the distribution quickly spreads out to populate all sequences equally. The plot below on the right shows the fractional population of the master sequence as a function of the total mutation rate. Again it is seen that below a critical mutation rate of about 1-Q=0.05, the master sequence contains most of the population, while above this rate, it contains only about formula_15 of the total population.\n\nIt can be seen that there is a sharp transition at a value of \"1-Q\"  just a bit larger than 0.05. For mutation rates above this value, the population of the master sequence drops to practically zero. Above this value, it dominates.\n\nIn the limit as \"L\" approaches infinity, the system does in fact have a phase transition at a critical value of Q: formula_16. One could think of the overall mutation rate (1-Q) as a sort of \"temperature\", which \"melts\" the fidelity of the molecular sequences above the critical \"temperature\" of formula_17. For faithful replication to occur, the information must be \"frozen\" into the genome.\n\n"}
{"id": "7895580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7895580", "title": "Exception that proves the rule", "text": "Exception that proves the rule\n\n\"The exception proves the rule\" is a saying whose meaning has been interpreted or misinterpreted in various ways. Its true definition, or at least original meaning, is that the presence of an exception applying to a \"specific\" case establishes (\"proves\") that a \"general\" rule exists. For example, a sign that says \"parking prohibited on Sundays\" (the exception) \"proves\" that parking \"is\" allowed on the other six days of the week (the rule). A more explicit phrasing might be \"the exception that proves \"the existence of\" the rule.\"\n\nAn alternative explanation often encountered is that the word \"prove\" is used in the archaic sense of \"test\". Thus, the saying does not mean that an exception demonstrates a rule to be true or to exist, but that it tests the rule. In this sense, it is usually used when an exception to a rule has been identified: for example, Mutillidae are wasps without wings which cannot fly, and therefore are an exception that proves (tests) the rule that wasps fly. The explanation that \"proves\" really means \"tests\" is, however, considered false by some sources. \n\nHenry Watson Fowler's \"Modern English Usage\" identifies five ways in which the phrase is commonly used, here listed in order from most to least correct.\n\nThe phrase is derived from a legal principle of republican Rome: \"exceptio probat regulam in casibus non exceptis\" (\"the exception confirms the rule in cases not excepted\"), a concept first proposed by Cicero in his defence of Lucius Cornelius Balbus. This means a stated exception implies the existence of a rule to which it is the exception. The second part of Cicero's phrase, \"in casibus non exceptis\" or \"in cases not excepted,\" is almost always missing from modern uses of the statement that \"the exception proves the rule,\" which may contribute to frequent confusion and misuse of the phrase.\n\nFowler gives the following example of the original meaning:\nThis legal principle is classically referred to as \"inclusio unius est exclusio alterius\" (Inclusion of one is to exclude the others). The idea is that if the promulgator of law finds reason to enumerate one exception, then it is only reasonable to infer no others were intended. The Ninth Amendment of the United States Constitution was enacted to explicitly suppress this principle by stating that \"The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.\"\n\nA case may appear at first sight to be an exception to the rule. However, when the situation is examined more closely, it is observed that the rule does not apply to this case, and thus the rule is shown to be valid after all.\n\nFowler's example is of a critic, Jones, who never writes a favourable review. So it is surprising when he writes a favourable review of a novel by an unknown author. Then it is discovered that the novel is his own, written under a pseudonym. Obviously the rule doesn't apply to this case (although the rule may need to be more precisely stated in future) and the previous evaluation of Jones's ill-nature toward others is re-affirmed.\n\nAn example of this use in science writing is laid out by Richard Dawkins in \"The Ancestor's Tale\". Cnidaria is a phylum of animals including jellyfish, corals, and sea anemones. The rule is that all cnidarians, and \"only \"cnidarians, have specialized harpoon cells called cnidocytes, which they often use to capture and/or inject venom into prey. There is one exception to this rule. Some species of sea slugs of the nudibranch group have tentacles containing cnidocytes, even though the slugs aren't cnidarians. But it turns out that the slug eats jellyfish and passes the jellyfish's commandeered weapons, intact and still working, into its own tentacles. So examining the only known exception really proved the original rule valid after all.\n\nA rural village is \"always\" quiet. A local farmer rents his fields to a rock festival, which disturbs the quiet. In this example, saying \"the exception proves the rule\" is literally incorrect, but it is used to draw attention to the rarity of the exception, and to establish the status of the village prior to the exceptional event.\n\nThe general misuse of the phrase is attributable to the ambivalence of the word 'rule'. In the original sense, 'rule' is taken as a \"strict\" rule, while in the loose rhetorical sense 'rule' is taken to mean 'rule of thumb'.\n\nA couple of examples of the loose rhetorical use would be to say: because Ted's wearing of jeans to work is considered \"exceptional\", it proves the rule of thumb that most employees do not tend to wear jeans in that setting. The original sense of the phrase could only apply to this situation if it were somehow altered, for example: if all employees were informed, upon being hired, that \"Ted is allowed to wear jeans\" because of his relationship with the company's founders. In this way it is implied that none of the rest of them may be allowed (as a universal rule to which Ted is the \"stated\" exception) to wear jeans in the workplace.\n\nIf the original meaning of the phrase is preserved along with the original example of Ted, it will not fit. The simple fact that Ted \"is\" an exception (that an exception exists at all) proves that the statement about company employees is not a rule, it is merely a trend.\n\nAnother example, if it is common place for a nurse that is male to be described as \"a male nurse\", it could be taken as evidence to a rule of thumb that most nurses are female.\n\nIt is also used in jocular nonsense. \"I am always punctual.\" \"Were you on time for breakfast this morning?\" \"Well no, but the exception proves the rule.\" In this case, the first speaker is aware that the phrase does not correctly apply to his or her initial statement, but is appealing to it ironically.\n\nThe first speaker in this example has confused the meaning of the phrase, apparently believing that any exception to any rule \"proves\" the rule true; in this case, the notion that \"the exception proves the rule \"in cases not excepted\"\" is neither implied nor understood by the speaker.\n\nFowler writes \"The last of these is the only one that need to be objected to directly, though 3 & 4 bear the blame of bringing 5 into existence.\" Fowler objects to the misuse of this proverb because it implies the following two beliefs:\n\nIt was in objection to this misuse that Arthur Conan Doyle had his famous detective Sherlock Holmes utter the statement \"I never make exceptions. An exception disproves the rule.\"\n\nLexicographer Bryan A. Garner describes Fowler's entry on the phrase as \"all but incomprehensible.”\n\nGiving an opposite reading to that above, Mark Forsyth claims in his book \"The Etymologicon\" that the \"prove\" in the expression comes from the Latin \"probare\", meaning not so much to show as true as to test (as in \"proving-ground\"), and thus that \"the exception that proves the rule\" is a (\"prima facie\" or seeming) exception to a rule or hypothesis which tests whether or not the rule holds in all cases. This echoes the satirical explanation by Ambrose Bierce in the latter's \"Devil's Dictionary\" (\"s.v. exception\"):\n\nAs an example, during the 2012 Webby Awards, actor Richard Dreyfuss chose to honor Steve Jobs by calling him an \"Exception that proves the rule.” In the context of Jobs's success as CEO of Apple, this use could be understood to say that his performance or approach called the rule (i.e., the approaches of other companies) into serious question.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "473835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473835", "title": "F. H. Bradley", "text": "F. H. Bradley\n\nFrancis Herbert Bradley OM (30 January 1846 – 18 September 1924) was a British idealist philosopher. His most important work was \"Appearance and Reality\" (1893).\n\nBradley was born at Clapham, Surrey, England (now part of the Greater London area). He was the child of Charles Bradley, an evangelical preacher, and Emma Linton, Charles's second wife. A. C. Bradley was his brother. Educated at Cheltenham College and Marlborough College, he read, as a teenager, some of Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\". In 1865, he entered University College, Oxford. In 1870, he was elected to a fellowship at Oxford's Merton College where he remained until his death in 1924. Bradley is buried in Holywell Cemetery in Oxford.\n\nDuring his life, Bradley was a respected philosopher and was granted honorary degrees many times. He was the first British philosopher to be awarded the Order of Merit. His fellowship at Merton College did not carry any teaching assignments and thus he was free to continue to write. He was famous for his non-pluralistic approach to philosophy. His outlook saw a monistic unity, transcending divisions between logic, metaphysics and ethics. Consistently, his own view combined monism with absolute idealism. Although Bradley did not think of himself as a Hegelian philosopher, his own unique brand of philosophy was inspired by, and contained elements of, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's dialectical method.\n\nBradley rejected the utilitarian and empiricist trends in English philosophy represented by John Locke, David Hume, and John Stuart Mill. Instead, Bradley was a leading member of the philosophical movement known as British idealism, which was strongly influenced by Kant and the German idealists, Johann Fichte, Friedrich Schelling, and Hegel, although Bradley tended to downplay his influences.\n\nIn 1909, Bradley published an essay entitled \"On Truth and Coherence\" in the journal \"Mind\" (reprinted in \"Essays on Truth and Reality\"). The essay criticises a form of infallibilist foundationalism in epistemology. The philosopher Robert Stern has argued that in this paper Bradley defends coherence not as an account of justification but as a criterion or test for truth.\n\nBradley's view of morality was driven by his criticism of the idea of self used in the current utilitarian theories of ethics. He addressed the central question of \"Why should I be moral?\"\n\nHe opposed individualism, instead defending the view of self and morality as essentially social. Bradley held that our moral duty was founded on the need to cultivate our ideal \"good self\" in opposition to our \"bad self\". However, he acknowledged that society could not be the source of our moral life, of our quest to realise our ideal self. For example, some societies may need moral reform from within, and this reform is based on standards which must come from elsewhere than the standards of that society.\n\nHe made the best of this admission in suggesting that the ideal self can be realised through following religion.\n\nHis views of the social self in his moral theorising are relevant to the views of Fichte, George Herbert Mead, and pragmatism. They are also compatible with modern views such as those of Richard Rorty and anti-individualism approaches.\n\nBradley's philosophical reputation declined greatly after his death. British idealism was practically eliminated by G.E. Moore and Bertrand Russell in the early 1900s. Bradley was also famously criticised in A. J. Ayer's logical positivist work \"Language, Truth and Logic\" for making statements that do not meet the requirements of positivist verification principle; e.g., statements such as \"The Absolute enters into, but is itself incapable of, evolution and progress.\"\nThere has in recent years, however, been a resurgence of interest in Bradley's and other idealist philosophers' work in the Anglo-American academic community.\n\nIn 1914, a then-unknown T. S. Eliot wrote his dissertation for a PhD from the Department of Philosophy at Harvard University on Bradley. It was entitled \"Knowledge and Experience in the Philosophy of F. H. Bradley\". Due to tensions leading up to and starting the First World War, Eliot was unable to return to Harvard for his oral defence, resulting in the University never conferring the degree.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3221633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3221633", "title": "Fatima Jinnah", "text": "Fatima Jinnah\n\nFatima Jinnah (; 31 July 1893 – 9 July 1967) was a Pakistani dental surgeon, biographer, stateswoman, and one of the leading of Pakistan.\n\nAfter obtaining a dental degree from University of Calcutta in 1923, she became a close associate and an adviser to her older brother Muhammad Ali Jinnah who later became the first Governor General of Pakistan. A strong critic of the British Raj, she emerged as a strong advocate of the two nation theory and a leading member of the All-India Muslim League.\n\nAfter the independence of Pakistan, Jinnah co-founded the Pakistan Women's Association which played an integral role in the settlement of the women migrants in the newly formed country. She remained the closest confidant of her brother until his death. After his death, Fatima was banned from addressing the nation until 1951; her 1951 radio address to the nation was heavily censored by the Liaquat administration\".\" She wrote the book \"My Brother\", in 1955 but it was only published 32 years later, in 1987, due to censorship by the establishment, who had accused Fatima of 'anti-nationalist material'. Even when published several pages from the book's manuscript were left out.\n\nJinnah came out of her self-imposed political retirement in 1965 to participate in the presidential election against military dictator Ayub Khan. She was backed by a consortium of political parties, and despite political rigging by the military, won two of Pakistan's largest cities, Karachi and Dhaka. The U.S. magazine, \"Time\", while reporting on the 1965 election campaign, wrote that Jinnah faced attacks on her modesty and patriotism by Ayub Khan and his allies.\n\nJinnah died in Karachi on 9 July 1967. Her death is subject to controversy, as some reports have alleged that she died of unnatural causes. Her family members had demanded an inquiry, however the government blocked their request. She remains one of the most honoured leaders in Pakistan, with nearly half a million people attending her funeral in Karachi.\n\nHer legacy is associated with her support for civil rights, her struggle in the Pakistan Movement and her devotion to her brother. Referred to as Māder-e Millat (\"Mother of the Nation\") and Khātūn-e Pākistān (Urdu: — \"Lady of Pakistan\"), many institutions and public spaces have been named in her honour.\n\nFatima was born on 31 July 1893, the youngest of seven children to Jinnahbhai Poonja and his wife Mithibai, in a rented apartment on the second floor of Wazir Mansion, Karachi. Fatima had six siblings: Muhammad Ali, Ahmad Ali, Bunde Ali, Rahmat Ali, Maryam, and Shireen. Of her siblings she was the closest to Muhammad Ali Jinnah who became her guardian upon the death of their father in 1901. She joined the Bandra Convent in Bombay in 1902. In 1919, she was admitted to the highly competitive University of Calcutta where she attended the Dr. R. Ahmed Dental College. After she graduated, she opened a dental clinic in Bombay in 1923.\n\nShe lived with her brother until 1918, when he married Rattanbai Petit. Upon Rattanbai's death in February 1929, she closed her clinic, moved into her brother Muhammad Ali Jinnah's bungalow, and took charge of his house. This began the lifelong companionship that lasted until her brother's death on 11 September 1948.\n\nPaying tribute to his sister, Muhammad Ali Jinnah once said, \"My sister was like a bright ray of light and hope whenever I came back home and met her. Anxieties would have been much greater and my health much worse, but for the restraint imposed by her\".\n\nShe accompanied her brother to every public appearance that he made. During the transfer of power in 1947, Jinnah formed the Women's Relief Committee, which later formed the nucleus for the All Pakistan Women's Association (APWA) founded by Rana Liaquat Ali Khan. She also played a significant role in the settlement of Muhajirs in the new state of Pakistan.\n\nIn the 1960s, she returned to the forefront of political life when she ran for the presidency of Pakistan as a candidate for the Combined Opposition Party of Pakistan (COPP). She described her opponent, Ayub Khan, as a dictator. In her early rallies, nearly 250,000 people thronged to see her in Dhaka, and a million lined the 293-mile route from there to Chittagong. Her train, called the Freedom Special, was 22 hours late because men at each station pulled the emergency cord, and begged her to speak. The crowds hailed her as \"Madr-e-Millat\", (Mother of the Nation).\n\nIn her speeches, she argued that by coming to terms with India on the Indus Water dispute, Ayub had surrendered control of the rivers to India. She narrowly lost the election, winning a majority in some provinces. The election did not involve direct democracy of the population, and some journalists and historians believe that if it had been a direct election she could have won.\n\nJinnah, popularly acclaimed as the \"Madr-e-Millat\", or Mother of the Nation for her role in the Freedom Movement, contested the 1965 elections at the age of 71. Except for her brief tour to East Pakistan in 1954, she had not participated in politics since Independence. After the imposition of martial law by Ayub Khan, she once wished the regime well. Yet after martial law was lifted, she sympathised with the opposition as she was strongly in favour of democratic ideals. Being sister of her beloved brother, she was held in high esteem, and came to symbolise the democratic aspirations of the people. The electoral landscape changed when Jinnah decided to contest the elections for the president's office in 1965. She was challenging the dictator and self-proclaimed \"president\" Ayub Khan in the indirect election, which Ayub Khan had himself instituted.\n\nPresidential candidates for the elections of 1965 were announced before commencement of the Basic Democracy elections, which was to constitute the Electoral College for the Presidential and Assembly elections. There were two major parties contesting the election, the Convention Muslim League and the Combined Opposition Parties. The Combined Opposition Parties consisted of five major opposition parties. It had a nine-point program, which included restoration of direct elections, adult franchise and democratisation of the 1962 Constitution. The opposition parties of Combined Opposition Parties were not united and did not possess any unity of thought and action. They were unable to select presidential candidates from amongst themselves; therefore they selected Jinnah as their candidate.\n\nElections were held on 2 January 1965. There were four candidates: Ayub Khan, Fatima Jinnah and two obscure persons with no party affiliation. There was a short campaigning period of one month, which was further restricted to nine projection meetings that were organised by the Election Commission and were attended only by the members of the Electoral College and members of the press. The public was barred from attending the projection meetings, which would have enhanced Jinnah's image.\n\nAyub Khan had a great advantage over the rest of the candidates. The Second Amendment of the Constitution confirmed him as President till the election of his successor. Armed with the wide-ranging constitutional powers of a President, he exercised complete control over all governmental machinery during elections. He utilised the state facilities as head of state, not as the President of the Convention Muslim League or a presidential candidate, and did not hesitate to legislate on electoral matters. Bureaucracy and business, the two beneficiaries of the Ayub Khan regime, helped him in his election campaign. Taking advantage of political opportunities, he brought all the discontented elements together to support him; students were assured the revision of the University Ordinance and journalists the scrutiny of the Press Laws. Ayub Khan also gathered the support of the ulema who were of the view that Islam does not permit a woman to be the head of an Islamic state.\n\nJinnah had detached herself from the political conflicts that had plagued Pakistan after the founder's death. The sight of her moving through the streets of big cities, and even in the rural areas of a Muslim country, added to her popularity. She proclaimed Ayub Khan to be a dictator. Jinnah's line of attack was that by coming to terms with the Republic of India on the Indus Water dispute, Ayub had surrendered control of the rivers over to India. Her campaign generated tremendous public enthusiasm. She drew enormous crowds in all cities of East and West Pakistan. The campaign however suffered from a number of drawbacks. An unfair and unequal election campaign, poor finances, and indirect elections through the Basic Democracy System were some of the basic problems she faced.\n\nJinnah won the popular vote in the presidential election of 1965. However through post election rigging, coercion and manipulation of the electoral college, Ayub Khan got himself elected as the President of Pakistan.\nIt is believed that had the elections been held via direct ballot, she would have won. The Electoral College consisted of only 80,000 Basic Democrats, who were easily manipulated. The importance of this election lay in the fact that a woman was contesting the highest political office of the country. The orthodox religious political parties, including the Jamaat-e-Islami led by Maulana Maududi, which had repeatedly declared that a woman could not hold the highest office of a Muslim country, modified their stance and supported the candidature of Jinnah. The election showed that the people had no prejudice against women holding high offices, and they could be key players in politics of the country.\n\nDuring a lawsuit, Matloobul Hassan Syed deposed that during Jinnah's election campaign against General Ayub Khan, when some local Shia leaders told her that they would vote for Ayub, she contended that she could represent them better as she was a Shia. According to Liaquat H. Merchant, \"the Court was inclined to repose more trust in the avowed non-sectarian public stance of the Quaid and his sister\". Both Muhammad Ali Jinnah and his sister \"carefully avoided a sectarian label.\" Both Muhammad Ali Jinnah and his sister Fatima Jinnah became firmly Sunni Muslims by the end of their lives.\n\nJinnah's unfinished biography of the Quaid, \"My Brother\", was published by the Quaid-i-Azam Academy in 1987.\n\nFatima Jinnah died in Karachi on 9 July 1967. The official cause of death was heart failure, but rumours persist that she was murdered at her house at the behest of the military junta. In 2003, the nephew of her and Quaid-i-Azam, Akbar Pirbhai, reignited the controversy by suggesting that she was assassinated. She is buried next to her brother, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, at Mazar-e-Quaid, Karachi.\n\nJinnah remained extremely popular and is considered as one of the greatest female figures Pakistan has produced. Jinnah is a source of the awakening of women's rights. In Pakistan, she rose to stand as Pakistan's national symbol, and unlike Ayub Khan who died in poor health and yet no honours were given him, Jinnah received tremendous honours from the society after her death. Later, the Government of Pakistan built a monument in honour and remembrance of her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "928779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=928779", "title": "First principle", "text": "First principle\n\nA first principle is a basic, foundational, self-evident proposition or assumption that cannot be deduced from any other proposition or assumption. In philosophy, first principles are taught by Aristotelians, and nuanced versions of first principles are referred to as postulates by Kantians. In mathematics, first principles are referred to as axioms or postulates. In physics and other sciences, theoretical work is said to be from first principles, or \"ab initio\", if it starts directly at the level of established science and does not make assumptions such as empirical model and parameter fitting.\n\nIn a formal logical system, that is, a set of propositions that are consistent with one another, it is possible that some of the statements can be deduced from other statements. For example, in the syllogism, \"All men are mortal; Socrates is a man; Socrates is mortal\" the last claim can be deduced from the first two.\n\nA first principle is an axiom that cannot be deduced from any other within that system. The classic example is that of Euclid's Elements; its hundreds of geometric propositions can be deduced from a set of definitions, postulates, and common notions: all three types constitute first principles.\n\nIn philosophy \"first principles\" are also commonly referred to as \"a priori\" terms and arguments, which are contrasted to \"a posteriori\" terms, reasoning or arguments, in that the former are simply assumed and exist prior to the reasoning process and the latter are deduced or inferred after the initial reasoning process. First principles are generally treated in the realm of philosophy known as epistemology, but are an important factor in any metaphysical speculation. \n\nIn philosophy \"first principles\" are often somewhat synonymous with \"a priori\", datum and axiomatic reasoning.\n\nTerence Irwin writes:\nProfoundly influenced by Euclid, Descartes was a rationalist who invented the foundationalist system of philosophy. He used the \"method of doubt\", now called Cartesian doubt, to systematically doubt everything he could possibly doubt, until he was left with what he saw as purely indubitable truths. Using these self-evident propositions as his axioms, or foundations, he went on to deduce his entire body of knowledge from them. The foundations are also called \"a priori\" truths. His most famous proposition is \"Je pense, donc je suis.\" (\"I think, therefore I am\", or \"Cogito ergo sum\")\n\nDescartes describes the concept of a first principle in the following excerpt from the preface to the \"Principles of Philosophy\" (1644):\nIn physics, a calculation is said to be \"from first principles\", or \"ab initio\", if it starts directly at the level of established laws of physics and does not make assumptions such as empirical model and fitting parameters.\n\nFor example, calculation of electronic structure using Schrödinger's equation within a set of approximations that do not include fitting the model to experimental data is an \"ab initio\" approach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22714797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22714797", "title": "Freedom of the Press (report)", "text": "Freedom of the Press (report)\n\nFreedom of the Press is a yearly report by US-based non-governmental organization Freedom House, measuring the level of freedom and editorial independence enjoyed by the press in nations and significant disputed territories around the world.\n\nThe ratings process involves several dozen analysts (Freedom House staff and consultants) who develop draft ratings using information gathered from professional contacts in a variety of countries, staff and consultant travel, international visitors, the findings of human rights and press freedom organizations, specialists in geographic and geopolitical areas, the reports of governments and multilateral bodies, members of the International Freedom of Expression Exchange (IFEX) network, and a variety of domestic and international news media. Countries are given a total score from 0 (most free) to 100 (least free) on the basis of a set of 23 methodology questions and 109 indicators divided into three broad categories covering the legal, political, and economic environment. Based on the scores, the countries are then classified as \"Free\" (0 to 30), \"Partly Free\" (31 to 60), or \"Not Free\" (61 to 100). The draft ratings are reviewed on an individual and a comparative basis, compared with the previous year's findings, any major proposed numerical shifts or category changes are subject to more intense scrutiny, and assessments are made to ensure comparability and consistency in the findings from country to country, region to region, and year to year. While there is an element of subjectivity inherent in the rating process, it emphasizes intellectual rigor, recognizes cultural differences, diverse national interests, and varying levels of economic development, and attempts to produce balanced and unbiased ratings.\n\nThe \"Freedom of the Press 2017\" report covers events that took place between 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016. It is put on a scale from 5 (most free) to 99 (least free).\n\n"}
{"id": "127859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=127859", "title": "Integrity", "text": "Integrity\n\nIntegrity is the quality of being honest and having strong moral principles, or moral uprightness. It is a personal choice to hold one's self to consistent standards.\n\nIn ethics, integrity is regarded as the honesty and truthfulness or accuracy of one's actions. Integrity can stand in opposition to hypocrisy, in that judging with the standards of integrity involves regarding internal consistency as a virtue, and suggests that parties holding within themselves apparently conflicting values should account for the discrepancy or alter their beliefs. The word \"integrity\" evolved from the Latin adjective \"integer\", meaning \"whole\" or \"complete\". In this context, integrity is the inner sense of \"wholeness\" deriving from qualities such as honesty and consistency of character. As such, one may judge that others \"have integrity\" to the extent that they act according to the values, beliefs and principles they claim to hold.\n\nSignificant attention is given to the subject of integrity in law and the conception of law in 20th century philosophy of law and jurisprudence centering in part on the research of Ronald Dworkin as studied in his book \"Law's Empire\". Dworkin's position on integrity in law reinforces the conception of justice viewed as fairness.\n\nIn ethics when discussing behavior and morality, an individual is said to possess the virtue of integrity if the individual's actions are based upon an internally consistent framework of principles. These principles should uniformly adhere to sound logical axioms or postulates. One can describe a person as having ethical integrity to the extent that the individual's actions, beliefs, methods, measures and principles all derive from a single core group of values. An individual must therefore be flexible and willing to adjust these values to maintain consistency when these values are challenged—such as when an expected test result is not congruent with all observed outcomes. Because such flexibility is a form of accountability, it is regarded as a moral responsibility as well as a virtue.\n\nAn individual's value system provides a framework within which the individual acts in ways which are consistent and expected. Integrity can be seen as the state or condition of having such a framework, and acting congruently within the given framework.\n\nOne essential aspect of a consistent framework is its avoidance of any unwarranted (arbitrary) exceptions for a particular person or group—especially the person or group that holds the framework. In law, this principle of universal application requires that even those in positions of official power be subject to the same laws as pertain to their fellow citizens. In personal ethics, this principle requires that one should not act according to any rule that one would not wish to see universally followed. For example, one should not steal unless one would want to live in a world in which everyone was a thief. The philosopher Immanuel Kant formally described the principle of universal application in his categorical imperative.\n\nThe concept of integrity implies a wholeness, a comprehensive corpus of beliefs, often referred to as a worldview. This concept of wholeness emphasizes honesty and authenticity, requiring that one act at all times in accordance with the individual's chosen worldview.\n\nEthical integrity is not synonymous with the good, as Zuckert and Zuckert show about Ted Bundy:\n\nIntegrity is important for politicians because they are chosen, appointed, or elected to serve society. To be able to serve, politicians are given power to make, execute, or control policy. They have the power to influence something or someone. There is, however, a risk that politicians will not use this power to serve society. Aristotle said that because rulers have power they will be tempted to use it for personal gain. It is important that politicians withstand this temptation, and that requires integrity.\n\nIn the book \"The Servant of the People\", Muel Kaptein describes that integrity starts with that politicians should know what their position entails, because integrity is related to their position. Integrity also demands knowledge and compliance with both the letter and the spirit of the written and unwritten rules. Integrity is also acting consistently not only with what is generally accepted as moral, what others think, but primarily with what is ethical, what politicians should do based on reasonable arguments.\n\nFurthermore, integrity is not just about why a politician acts in a certain way, but also about who the politician is. Questions about a person’s integrity cast doubt not only on their intentions but also on the source of those intentions, the person’s character. So integrity is about having the right ethical virtues that become visible in a pattern of behavior.\n\nImportant virtues of politicians are faithfulness, humility. and accountability. Furthermore, they should be authentic and a role model. Aristotle identified pride (\"megalopsuchia\", variously translated as proper pride, greatness of soul and magnanimity) as the crown of the virtues, distinguishing it from vanity, temperance, and humility.\n\nDworkin argues that moral principles that people hold dear are often wrong, even to the extent that certain crimes are acceptable if one's principles are skewed enough. To discover and apply these principles, courts interpret the legal data (legislation, cases etc.) with a view to articulating an interpretation that best explains and justifies past legal practice. All interpretation must follow, Dworkin argues, from the notion of \"law as integrity\" to make sense.\n\nOut of the idea that law is 'interpretive' in this way, Dworkin argues that in every situation where people's legal rights are controversial, the best interpretation involves the right answer thesis, the thesis that there exists a right answer as a matter of law that the judge must discover. Dworkin opposes the notion that judges have a discretion in such difficult cases.\n\nDworkin's model of legal principles is also connected with Hart's notion of the Rule of Recognition. Dworkin rejects Hart's conception of a master rule in every legal system that identifies valid laws, on the basis that this would entail that the process of identifying law must be uncontroversial, whereas (Dworkin argues) people have legal rights even in cases where the correct legal outcome is open to reasonable dispute. Dworkin moves away from positivism's separation of law and morality, since constructive interpretation implicates moral judgments in every decision about what the law is.\n\nThe procedures known as \"integrity tests\" or (more confrontationally) as \"honesty tests\" aim to identify prospective employees who may hide perceived negative or derogatory aspects of their past, such as a criminal conviction, or drug abuse. Identifying unsuitable candidates can save the employer from problems that might otherwise arise during their term of employment. Integrity tests make certain assumptions, specifically:\n\nThe claim that such tests can detect \"fake\" answers plays a crucial role in detecting people who have low integrity. Naive respondents really believe this pretense and behave accordingly, reporting some of their past deviance and their thoughts about the deviance of others, fearing that if they do not answer truthfully their untrue answers will reveal their \"low integrity\". These respondents believe that the more candid they are in their answers, the higher their \"integrity score\" will be.\n\nDisciplines and fields with an interest in integrity include philosophy of action, philosophy of medicine, mathematics, the mind, cognition, consciousness, materials science, structural engineering, and politics. Popular psychology identifies personal integrity, professional integrity, artistic integrity, and intellectual integrity.\n\nFor example, a scientific investigation should not determine the outcome in advance of the actual results. As an example of a breach of this principle, Public Health England, a UK Government agency, recently stated that they upheld a line of government policy in advance of the outcome of a study that they had commissioned.\n\nThe concept of integrity may also feature in business contexts beyond the issues of employee/employer honesty and ethical behavior, notably in marketing or branding contexts. The \"integrity\" of a brand is regarded by some as a desirable outcome for companies seeking to maintain a consistent, unambiguous position in the mind of their audience. This integrity of brand includes consistent messaging and often includes using a set of graphics standards to maintain visual integrity in marketing communications. Kaptein and Wempe have developed a theory of corporate integrity including criteria for businesses dealing with moral dilemmas.\n\nAnother use of the term, \"integrity\" appears in the work of Michael Jensen and Werner Erhard in their academic paper, \"Integrity: A Positive Model that Incorporates the Normative Phenomenon of Morality, Ethics, and Legality\". In this paper the authors explore a new model of integrity as the state of being whole and complete, unbroken, unimpaired, sound, and in perfect condition. They posit a new model of integrity that provides access to increased performance for individuals, groups, organizations, and societies. Their model \"reveals the causal link between integrity and increased performance, quality of life, and value-creation for all entities, and provides access to that causal link.\"\nAccording to Muel Kaptein, integrity is not a one-dimensional concept. In his book he presents a multifaceted perspective of integrity. Integrity relates to, for example, compliance to the rules as well as to social expectations, with morality as well as ethics, and with actions as well as attitude.\n\nElectronic signals are said to have integrity when there is no corruption of information between one domain and another, such as from a disk drive to a computer display. Such integrity is a fundamental principle of information assurance. Corrupted information is untrustworthy, yet uncorrupted information is of value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48829112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48829112", "title": "Joyce Mitchell Cook", "text": "Joyce Mitchell Cook\n\nJoyce Mitchell Cook (October 28, 1933 – June 6, 2014) was an American philosopher. She was the first African American female to receive a Ph.D in philosophy in the United States. After earning that degree from Yale University, she was the first female teaching assistant allowed at the university. She went on to be a professor at Bryn Mawr College, Howard University, and Connecticut College. She served for several years as an analyst for African affairs at the State Department in Washington.\n\nCook was one of 12 children born to Rev. Isaac W. Sr., and Mary Belle Christman Mitchell in Sharon, Pennsylvania, on October 28, 1933. She attended Sharon High School and then Bryn Mawr College in 1951, where she intended on majoring in chemistry. She took her first philosophy course her freshman year, and then, inspired by her readings and professors, graduated from Bryn Mawr with a B.A. in philosophy in 1955. She then received a double M.A. in psychology and philosophy from Oxford University in 1957. After this, she went to Yale to receive her Ph.D. in philosophy in 1965.\n\nWhile at Yale, Cook edited the \"Review of Metaphysics\" and worked at the Yale University Press. She was the first female teaching assistant at Yale for any non-language class. It has been speculated that she was not just the first black female to receive a philosophy Ph.D in the United States, but in the entire world. After Yale, Cook served as an analyst for African affairs in the State Department in Washington. She also worked as an editor in New York and for several years in the Office of Economic Opportunity. She was a professor at Wellesley University, Howard University and Connecticut College.\n\nCook completed her dissertation on the value theory, and was interested in this philosophy until her death. She became active in civil rights in the middle of her life. Cook also served on the Jimmy Carter administration as a speech writer and correspondence editor. She was in the middle of writing a book on the black experience when she died of illness on June 6, 2014.\n\nIn 2007, Cook received the Flame Award from the Collegium of Black Woman Philosophers. George Yancy, an African American philosopher who interviewed Cook for his book \"African-American Philosophers: 17 Conversations\", wrote in a letter that he sent to a fellow philosopher shortly after Cook's death:\n\nThe American Philosophical Association presents the Joyce Mitchell Cook Award biennially to a \"trailblazing black woman philosopher\". Yale University hosted the Joyce Mitchell Cook Conference in November 2015, where many scholars and pioneers in philosophy gathered to honor Cook. Yancy gave the inaugural address.\n"}
{"id": "17742997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17742997", "title": "Julian Baggini", "text": "Julian Baggini\n\nJulian Baggini (born 1968) is a British philosopher, and the author of several books about philosophy written for a general audience. He is co-founder of \"The Philosophers' Magazine\". \n\nBaggini was awarded a PhD in 1996 from University College London for a thesis on the philosophy of personal identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "5946039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5946039", "title": "Knowledge triangle", "text": "Knowledge triangle\n\nThe knowledge triangle refers to the interaction between research, education and innovation, which are key drivers of a knowledge-based society. In the European Union, it also refers to an attempt to better link together these key concepts, with research and innovation already highlighted by the development of the Lisbon Strategy and, more recently, lies behind the creation of the European Institute of Technology (EIT).\n\n"}
{"id": "544830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=544830", "title": "Knud Ejler Løgstrup", "text": "Knud Ejler Løgstrup\n\nKnud Ejler Løgstrup (2 September 1905 – 20 November 1981) was a Danish philosopher and theologian. His work, which combines elements of phenomenology, ethics and theology, has exerted considerable influence in postwar Nordic thought. More recently, his work has been discussed by prominent figures in anglophone philosophy and sociology such as Alasdair MacIntyre, Robert Stern, Simon Critchley and Zygmunt Bauman.\n\nLøgstrup studied theology at the University of Copenhagen between 1923–30, though his interests tended towards the philosophical aspects of the discipline. He subsequently studied under a number of prominent teachers in Strasbourg (Jean Hering), Paris (Henri Bergson), Göttingen (Hans Lipps and Friedrich Gogarten), Freiburg im Breisgau (Martin Heidegger), Vienna (Moritz Schlick) and Tübingen. Lipps, in particular, would have a particularly marked influence on Løgstrup’s thinking. Though Løgstrup was at Strasbourg when Emmanuel Levinas – to whom his work is often compared – was a student there, there is no evidence to suggest he and Levinas encountered one another.\n\nIn Freiburg, he met (1914-2005), a German fellow student whom he married in 1935. The following year he took up a position as a parish priest in Funen and continued to work on his dissertation, a critique of idealist epistemology. The dissertation was finally accepted in 1942 after several submissions. In 1943, he was appointed Professor of Ethics and Philosophy at the University of Aarhus.Shortly thereafter, however, Løgstrup was forced to go underground due to his activities in support of the Danish resistance.\n\nFrom the 1930s, Løgstrup was a member of Tidehverv, a strongly anti-pietist movement within the Danish Church which at the time espoused a dialectical theology heavily influenced by Kierkegaard. However he drifted increasingly further from the group (and from its interpretation of Kierkegaard, particularly as espoused by ) and broke with the movement in the early 1950s. Løgstrup retired from the University of Aarhus in 1975 but continued writing a four-volume work, \"Metaphysics\". Two volumes had been published by the time of his sudden death from a heart attack in 1981.\n\nLøgstrup's 1956 book \"The Ethical Demand\" (\"Den Etiske Fordring\") develops an account of a demand Løgstrup takes to be built into our experience of life with other people:\n\nBecause we are in a position to influence, to some degree, how well another person’s life goes for them (even in very minor ways), we find ourselves in a position of power over them, and “Because power is involved in every human relationship, we are always in advance compelled to decide whether to use our power over the other for serving him or for serving ourselves.” For Løgstrup, the demand built into our dealings with others is that we act one-sidedly for the other’s sake, not our own: “everything which an individual has opportunity to say and do in relation to the other person is to be done and said not for his own sake but for the sake of him or her whose life is in his hand.” This demand ultimately turns out to be unfulfillable for Løgstrup in the sense that “what is demanded is that the demand should not have been necessary.” In other words, in any given situation where the ethical demand becomes salient, the agent has already failed to live up to it; the agent should simply have acted spontaneously with selfless concern for the other.\n\nLøgstrup takes the ethical demand to be prior to social norms or moral principles. Such principles and norms cannot simply be ignored, and they may make us act as we would have done had we realized the ethical demand; for that reason they are morally useful. But ultimately they are only a substitute for genuinely realizing the ethical, not constitutive of doing so as mainstream moral philosophy assumes. \"The Ethical Demand\" contains analyses of concrete phenomena such as trust, which Løgstrup takes to be fundamental to moral life. Trust, for Løgstrup, is conceptually prior to distrust: the basic attitude built into discourse is a trust in the sincerity of the interlocutor, and hence it is only gradually that we learn to distrust others.\n\nIn the decades following \"The Ethical Demand\" Løgstrup continued to develop his 'ontological ethics' as an alternative to the standard deontic, utilitarian and virtue ethics frameworks. He continued to insist that while virtues, character traits, and duties could usefully provide 'substitute' motives for moral action, these were always secondary: the ethical demand requires a spontaneous loving response to the other. Systems of norms only come into play in moral action when this spontaneous response has already failed.\n\nConsequently, Løgstrup is critical of the emphasis on rule-following and universal principles in most anglophone moral theory. As an example, Løgstrup mentions Stephen Toulmin's example of an everyday situation: 'I have borrowed a book from John and the question is now, why should I give it back today as I promised him?' According to Toulmin, this question will push us to reflect on principles of ever-higher levels of abstraction: \"I should always keep my promises,\" \"I should never lie\" etc. For Løgstrup, this increasing universalisation leads to a 'moralism' that abstracts from the concrete situation and the needs of the actual person. Instead, moral reflection should remain on the level of the given situation: 'Because my friend needs the book back!'\n\nOne of the early criticisms of \"The Ethical Demand\" was that it endorsed a form of naturalist fallacy: it inferred a (normative) responsibility to act for the sake of the other from the (descriptive) fact that the other is in our power. Partly in response to this objection, Løgstrup would go on to develop an account of the \"sovereign expressions of life\" (\"suværene livsytringer\"),which first appear in his 1968 book \"Opgør med Kierkegaard\" ('Settling Accounts with Kierkegaard' or 'Confronting Kierkegaard') and are further developed in \"Norm og Spontaneitet\" (“Norm and Spontaneity,” 1972). This category includes phenomena such as trust, openness of speech, and mercy. These phenomena present themselves to us, according to Løgstrup, as intrinsically good, rather than as neutral phenomena we need to evaluate against an external standard. They do not emanate from the agent, but from life itself, and demand submission rather than application (as with principles) or cultivation (as with virtues).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26023412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26023412", "title": "Legality of the War on Drugs", "text": "Legality of the War on Drugs\n\nSeveral authors have put forth arguments concerning the legality of the War on Drugs. In his essay \"The Drug War and the Constitution\", Libertarian philosopher Paul Hager makes the case that the War on Drugs in the United States is an illegal form of prohibition, which violates the principles of a limited government embodied in the Constitution.\n\nIn her dissent in \"Gonzales v. Raich\" (a case argued by Randy Barnett), Justice Sandra Day O'Connor argued that drug prohibition is an improper usurpation of the power to regulate interstate commerce, and the power to prohibit should be reserved by the states. In the same case, Justice Clarence Thomas wrote a stronger dissent expressing a similar idea. Chief Justice William Rehnquist joined O'Connor's dissent.\n\nAnother argument against drug prohibition is based on the notion that its practice violates implicit rights within the substantive due process doctrine. It has been suggested that anti-drug laws do not achieve enough reasonable benefit to State interests to justify arbitrarily restricting basic individual liberties that are supposed to be guaranteed by the Fourth Amendment and the Fourteenth Amendment to the US Constitution. One proponent of this notion is attorney Warren Redlich.\n\nIn 2002, the U.S. State of Florida attempted to eliminate criminal intent as an element of the crime of drug possession. On July 27, 2011, U.S. District Judge Mary S. Scriven ruled that the Florida law was unconstitutional, saying that the elimination of the element of intent was \"atavistic and repugnant to the common law\". Nellie King, president of the Florida Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, explained the ruling in terms of due process. The ruling is subject to appeal.\n\nThe substantive due process argument is sometimes used in medical marijuana cases. NORML once wrote in an amicus brief on \"United States v. Oakland Cannabis Buyers' Cooperative\" that the right to use medical marijuana to save one's life is within the rights established by the substantive due process. However, the Supreme Court found against the medical marijuana dispensary and for the United States in the aforementioned case. Some apparently believe that this invalidates the substantive due process argument against the Controlled Substances Act.\n\nHowever, the Supreme Court expressly \"declined\" to rule on the issue of substantive due process in the aforementioned case, ruling against the medical marijuana dispensary in question on grounds of statutory construction, as the Court found that there was no standalone medical necessity defense in the Controlled Substances Act. Justice Clarence Thomas' majority opinion clearly explains that the Court did not consider any Constitutional arguments in coming to the conclusion that it reached. As Justice Thomas expressly states in his majority opinion: \"Finally, the Cooperative contends that we should construe the Controlled Substances Act to include a medical necessity defense in order to avoid what it considers to be difficult constitutional questions. In particular, the Cooperative asserts that, shorn of a medical necessity defense, the statute exceeds Congress’ Commerce Clause powers, violates the substantive due process rights of patients, and offends the fundamental liberties of the people under the Fifth, Ninth, and Tenth Amendments. As the Cooperative acknowledges, however, the canon of constitutional avoidance has no application in the absence of statutory ambiguity. Because we have no doubt that the Controlled Substances Act cannot bear a medical necessity defense to distributions of marijuana, we do not find guidance in this avoidance principle. Nor do we consider the underlying constitutional issues today. Because the Court of Appeals did not address these claims, we decline to do so in the first instance.\" As such, the question of the constitutionality of the Controlled Substances Act under the doctrine of substantive due process remains an open one, undecided by the Supreme Court, and debated by the citizens of the United States. Even some opponents of the substantive due process argument who support the War on Drugs have noted that the doctrine could potentially lead to the invalidation of anti-drug laws.\n\nIt is argued that the reverse burden of proof in drug-possession cases is incompatible with the rule of law in that the power to convict is effectively taken from the courts and given to those who are willing to plant evidence.\n\nA special problem is created by government prohibition of psychedelic drugs such as LSD, peyote, psilocybin mushrooms, cannabis, and ayahuasca. Some people use such substances with definite cognitive, spiritual or religious motives. Use of peyote and ayahuasca is currently legal in the US for members of certain recognized religions (e.g., Native American Church). However nothing in the Free Exercise clause of the First Amendment implies that sincere and responsible exercise of freedom of religion or conscience requires formal affiliation with an established religious denomination.\n"}
{"id": "3736680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3736680", "title": "Mechanism (sociology)", "text": "Mechanism (sociology)\n\nThe term social mechanisms and mechanism-based explanations of social phenomenon originate from the philosophy of science. \n\nThe core thinking behind the mechanism approach has been expressed as follows by Elster (1989: 3-4): “To explain an event is to give an account of why it happened. Usually… this takes the form of citing an earlier event as the cause of the event we want to explain…. [But] to cite the cause is not enough: the causal mechanism must also be provided, or at least suggested.”\n\nExisting definitions differ a great deal from one another, but underlying them all is an emphasis on making intelligible the regularities being observed by specifying in detail how they were brought about. The currently most satisfactory discussion of the mechanism concept is found in Machamer, Darden and Craver (2000). Following them, mechanisms can be said to consist of entities (with their properties) and the activities that these entities engage in, either by themselves or in concert with other entities. These activities bring about change, and the type of change brought about depends upon the properties and activities of the entities and the relations between them. A mechanism, thus defined, refers to a constellation of entities and activities that are organized such that they regularly bring about a particular type of outcome, and we explain an observed outcome by referring to the mechanism by which such outcomes are regularly brought about (see also Hedström and Ylikoski 2010).\n\nElster, J. 1989. \"Nuts and Bolts for the Social Sciences\". Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. \n\nHedström, P. and P. Ylikoski. 2010. Causal mechanisms in the social sciences. \"Annual Review of Sociology\" 36: 49–67.\n\nMachamer, P., L. Darden, and C.F. Craver. 2000. Thinking about mechanisms. \"Philosophy of Science\" 67:1-25.\n\n"}
{"id": "12932084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12932084", "title": "Michael Frede", "text": "Michael Frede\n\nMichael Frede (; 31 May 1940 – 11 August 2007) was a prominent scholar of ancient philosophy, described by \"The Telegraph\" as \"one of the most important and adventurous scholars of ancient philosophy of recent times.\"\n\nFrede earned his Ph.D. at the Georg-August University of Göttingen in 1966 and worked there as an Assistant () from 1966 to 1971.\n\nHe joined the faculty of the Philosophy Department at University of California, Berkeley as an Assistant Professor (1971) and quickly rose to the status of full Professor. From 1976 to 1991, he was a professor at the Princeton University Philosophy Department.\n\nHe returned to Europe in 1991 and took the Chair in the History of Philosophy at the University of Oxford. In 1997-8 he returned to Berkeley to lecture on free will as the 84th visiting Sather Professor of Classical Literature; the resulting book was published posthumously. He retired from Oxford in 2005 and lived in Athens, Greece until his death in a drowning accident in 2007.\n\nHe was a Member of the Göttingen Academy of Sciences and a Fellow of both the British Academy (elected 1994) and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "298404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298404", "title": "Michael O. Rabin", "text": "Michael O. Rabin\n\nMichael Oser Rabin (, born September 1, 1931) is an Israeli mathematician and computer scientist and a recipient of the Turing Award.\n\nRabin was born in 1931 in Breslau, Germany (today Wrocław, in Poland), the son of a rabbi. In 1935, he emigrated with his family to Mandate Palestine. As a young boy, he was very interested in mathematics and his father sent him to the best high school in Haifa, where he studied under a significant practicing mathematician, Elisha Netanyahu, who was then a high school teacher.\n\nAfter high school, he was drafted into the army during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. The mathematician Abraham Fraenkel, who was a professor of mathematics in Jerusalem, intervened with the army command, and Rabin was discharged to study at the university in 1949.\n\nHe received an M.Sc. from Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1953 and a Ph.D. from Princeton University in 1956. He became Associate Professor of Mathematics at the University of California, Berkeley (1961–62) and MIT (1962-63). Before moving to Harvard University as Gordon McKay Professor of Computer Science in 1981, he was a professor at the Hebrew University.\n\nIn the late 1950s, he was invited for a summer to do research for IBM at the Lamb Estate in Westchester County, New York with other promising mathematicians and scientists. It was there that he and Dana Scott wrote the paper \"Finite Automata and Their Decision Problems\". Soon, using nondeterministic automata, they were able to re-prove Kleene's result that finite state machines exactly accept regular languages.\n\nAs to the origins of what was to become computational complexity theory, the next summer Rabin returned to the Lamb Estate. John McCarthy posed a puzzle to him about spies, guards, and passwords, which Rabin studied and soon after he wrote an article, \"Degree of Difficulty of Computing a Function and Hierarchy of Recursive Sets.\"\n\nNondeterministic machines have become a key concept in computational complexity theory, particularly with the description of the complexity classes P and NP.\n\nRabin then returned to Jerusalem, researching logic, and working on the foundations of what would later be known as computer science. He was an associate professor and the head of the Institute of Mathematics at the Hebrew University at 29 years old, and a full professor by 33. Rabin recalls, \"There was absolutely no appreciation of the work on the issues of computing. Mathematicians did not recognize the emerging new field\".\n\nIn 1960, he was invited by Edward F. Moore to work at Bell Labs, where Rabin introduced probabilistic automata that employ coin tosses in order to decide which state transitions to take. He showed examples of regular languages that required a very large number of states, but for which you get an exponential reduction of the number of states if you go over to probabilistic automata.\n\nIn 1969, Rabin proved that the second-order theory of \"n\" successors is decidable. A key component of the proof implicitly showed determinacy of parity games, which lie in the third level of the Borel hierarchy.\n\nIn 1975, Rabin finished his tenure as Rector of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the USA as a visiting professor. Gary Miller was also there and had his polynomial time test for primality based on the extended Riemann hypothesis. While there, Rabin invented the Miller–Rabin primality test, a randomized algorithm that can determine very quickly (but with a tiny probability of error) whether a number is prime. Rabin's method was based on previous work of Gary Miller that solved the problem deterministically with the assumption that the generalized Riemann hypothesis is true, but Rabin's version of the test made no such assumption. Fast primality testing is key in the successful implementation of most public-key cryptography, and in 2003 Miller, Rabin, Robert M. Solovay, and Volker Strassen were given the Paris Kanellakis Award for their work on primality testing.\n\nIn 1976 he was invited by Joseph Traub to meet at Carnegie Mellon University and presented the primality test. After he gave that lecture, Traub had said, \"No, no, this is revolutionary, and it's going to become very important.\"\n\nIn 1979, Rabin invented the Rabin cryptosystem, the first asymmetric cryptosystem whose security was proved equivalent to the intractability of integer factorization.\n\nIn 1981, Rabin reinvented a weak variant of the technique of oblivious transfer invented by Wiesner under the name of multiplexing, allowing a sender to transmit a message to a receiver where the receiver has some probability between 0 and 1 of learning the message, with the sender being unaware whether the receiver was able to do so.\n\nIn 1987, Rabin, together with Richard Karp, created one of the most well-known efficient string search algorithms, the Rabin–Karp string search algorithm, known for its rolling hash.\n\nRabin's more recent research has concentrated on computer security. He is currently the Thomas J. Watson Sr. Professor of Computer Science at Harvard University and Professor of Computer Science at Hebrew University. During the spring semester of 2007, he was a visiting professor at Columbia University teaching \"Introduction to Cryptography\".\n\nRabin is a foreign member of the United States National Academy of Sciences, a member of the\nFrench Academy of Sciences and a foreign member of the Royal Society.\n\nHe was also the PhD advisor of Saharon Shelah, a researcher in mathematical logic.\n\nIn 1976, the Turing Award was awarded jointly to Rabin and Dana Scott for a paper written in 1959, the citation for which states that the award was granted:\n\"For their joint paper \"Finite Automata and Their Decision Problems,\" which introduced the idea of nondeterministic machines, which has proved to be an enormously valuable concept. Their (Scott & Rabin) classic paper has been a continuous source of inspiration for subsequent work in this field.\"\nIn 1995, Rabin was awarded the Israel Prize, in computer sciences.\n\nIn 2010, Rabin was awarded the Tel Aviv University Dan David Prize (\"Future\" category), jointly with Leonard Kleinrock and Gordon E. Moore, for Computers and Telecommunications.\n\nIn 2017, Rabin was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Science from Harvard University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38478129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38478129", "title": "Padma Samten", "text": "Padma Samten\n\nPadma Samten (formerly Alfredo Aveline) is a Brazilian Buddhist lama.\n\nAlfredo Aveline has bachelor's and master's degrees in quantum physics from Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), where he was professor from 1969 to 1994. During those years, he studied quantum physics, a theory in which he found a similarity with Buddhist thought. In the early 1980s, his interest in Buddhism was intensified. In 1986, he founded Bodhisattva Center for Buddhist Studies (CEBB). In 1993, he was accepted by Chagdud Tulku Rinpoche as his disciple and in 1996 he was ordained lama, a title meaning leader, priest and teacher. Since that time, Lama Samten has traveled and taught, helping to structure and sustain practice groups throughout Brazil.\n\nLama Samten received training from teachers of various Buddhist traditions including Zen, and traveled to Asia on several occasions. He has contributed to bring masters, including Chagdud Tulku Rinpoche, Alan Wallace and the Dalai Lama, to Brazil. In Viamão (RS), where he resides, is located the temple, the school and the community houses of the Bodhisattva Center for Buddhist Studies (CEBB). Lama Samten has been a teacher, lecturer and consultant in companies, government agencies, hospitals, buddhist temples and universities.\n\nBecause of his work integrating Buddhism and mind training to the fields of psychology, medicine, economy and education, he has been awarded honorary citizenship in Curitiba (2008) and Viamão (2012).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8386144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8386144", "title": "Paul Oskar Kristeller", "text": "Paul Oskar Kristeller\n\nPaul Oskar Kristeller (May 22, 1905 in Berlin – June 7, 1999 in New York, United States) was an important scholar of Renaissance humanism. He was awarded the Haskins Medal in 1992. He was last active as Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Columbia University in New York, where he mentored both Irving Louis Horowitz and A. James Gregor.\n\nDuring his university years he studied with Werner Jaeger, Heinrich Rickert, Richard Kroner, Karl Hampe, Friedrich Baethgen, Eduard Norden, and Ulrich von Wilamowitz. He also attended lectures by noted philosophers such as Ernst Cassirer, Edmund Husserl, and Karl Jaspers. In 1928, he earned his doctorate from the University of Heidelberg under Ernst Hoffmann with a dissertation on Plotinus. He did postdoctoral work at the universities of Berlin and Freiburg. At Freiburg, Kristeller studied under the philosopher Martin Heidegger from 1931 to 1933. The Nazi victory in 1933 forced Kristeller to move to Italy. At his arrival, Giovanni Gentile secured for him a position as lecturer in German at the Scuola Normale Superiore in Pisa. It was at the Scuola Normale that Kristeller completed his first great works in the Renaissance: the \"Supplementum Ficinianum\" (1937) and \"The Philosophy of Marsilio Ficino\" (1943). In 1939, he fled Italy, due to the enactment of Mussolini's August 1938 racial laws, to live in the USA. Thanks to the help of Yale University historian Roland Bainton, he sailed from Genoa in February 1939 and by March was teaching a graduate seminar at Yale on Plotinus. However Kristeller taught for only a short time at Yale University until moving to Columbia University, where he taught until his retirement in 1973, as Frederick J. E. Woodbridge Professor of Philosophy. He continued to be an active researcher after he retired. Paul Kristeller received the Serena Medal of the British Academy in 1958, the Premio Internazionale Galileo Galilei in 1968 and the Commendatore nell'Ordine al Merito della Repubblica Italiana in 1971.\n\nThe emphasis of Kristeller's research was on the philosophy of Renaissance humanism. He is the author of important studies on Marsilio Ficino, Pietro Pomponazzi and Giambattista Vico.\n\nAn especially important achievement is his \"Iter Italicum\" (the title recalls \"Iter Alemannicum\" and other works of Martin Gerbert), a large work describing numerous uncatalogued manuscripts. After decades of neglect, Kristeller's lengthy, erudite essay of the early 1950s, \"The Modern System of the Arts\", in \"Journal of the History of Ideas\", proved to be an influential, much reprinted classic reading in Philosophy of Art.\n\nKristeller was the chief inspirer of the Catalogus Translationum et Commentariorum, the ongoing project that aims to chart the fortune of all extant classical works through the Middle Ages and Renaissance, serving as Founder and Editor-in-Chief for the first two volumes and Associate Editor for the next five volumes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43356677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43356677", "title": "Prashastapada", "text": "Prashastapada\n\nDayananda Saraswati writes that the Sutras of Kanāda and \" Padārthadharmasaṅgraha \" of Praśastapāda do not show much influence of the Nyaya System. \" Praśastapāda Bhāṣya \" is actually not a commentary but an independent compendium of the tenets of the Vaisheshika School. Udayanacharya of the Navya-Nyāya School, the author of \" Lakṣaṇāvalī \" which gives the definitions of Vaiśeṣika terms, and \" Nyāya Kusumanjali \" which is a systematic account of Nyaya Theism, who also belonged to Mithila, had written \" Kiranavali \" which is a commentary on \" Praśastapāda Bhāṣya \".\n\nPraśastapāda can be tentatively dated to the second half of the 6th century C.E. The Vaiśeṣika philosophy recognizes twenty-four \" gunas \" or qualities that are inherent in substances; these include seventeen gunas listed by Kanada and seven gunas – \" gurutva \" (heaviness), \" dravatva \" (fluidity), \" sneha \" (viscidity), \" dharma \" (merit), \" adharma \" (demerit), \" shabda \" (sound) and \" samskara \" (faculty) - added by Praśastapāda. \" Vyomavati \" of Vyomaśekhara, \" Nyayakandali \" of Shridhara, \" Kiranavali \" of Udayana and \" Lilavati \" of Śrīvatsa are well known commentaries on his works.\n\nPraśastapāda refers to a type of perception that is the simple intuition (\" alochana \") of the proper form (\" svarupa \") of an entity, which is the apprehension of an undifferentiated (\" avibhktam \") whole arising from cognition of its specific universals. This is the preliminary stage. He differs from Dignāga for whom the determinates of cognitions are subjective constructs imposed upon the given, and constructive cognition is not a perception; Praśastapāda, who was a realist, avers that the determinates are objective constituents of reality and their conceptual co-relates are not inter-subjective fictions. Praśastapāda by redefining substance as per se a possessor of attributes opened new turf by separating the cosmological from the logical dimensions of concepts. His commentary overshadowed the Vaisheshika Sutras and became the main vehicle for later commentaries. Praśastapāda describes the dissolution of the earth, water, air and fire in terms of their atomic constituents but excludes space because space is non-atomic. With regard to the conjoining and disjoining of atoms he includes a higher will or order as the guiding principle of universal dissolution which over-rides the natural karma of atoms.\nKaṇāda does not directly refer to Ishvara (God) but Praśastapāda sees Ishvara as the cause of the universe but does not explain how God creates.\n"}
{"id": "703994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=703994", "title": "Presuppositional apologetics", "text": "Presuppositional apologetics\n\nPresuppositionalism is a school of Christian apologetics that believes the Christian faith is the only basis for rational thought. It presupposes that the Bible is divine revelation and attempts to expose flaws in other worldviews. It claims that apart from presuppositions, one could not make sense of any human experience, and there can be no set of neutral assumptions from which to reason with a non-Christian. Presuppositionalists claim that a Christian cannot consistently declare his belief in the necessary existence of the God of the Bible and simultaneously argue on the basis of a different set of assumptions that God may not exist and Biblical revelation may not be true. Two schools of presuppositionalism exist, based on the different teachings of Cornelius Van Til and Gordon Haddon Clark. Presuppositionalism contrasts with classical apologetics and evidential apologetics.\n\nPresuppositionalists compare their presupposition against other ultimate standards such as reason, empirical experience, and subjective feeling, claiming presupposition in this context is:\nCritics of presuppositional apologetics claim that it is logically invalid because it begs the question of the truth of Christianity and the non-truth of other worldviews.\n\nPresuppositionalists contrast their approach with the other schools of Christian apologetics by describing the others as assuming that the world is unintelligible apart from belief in the existence of God and then arguing on purportedly neutral grounds to support trusting the Christian Scriptures and the existence of God. Specifically, presuppositionalists describe Thomistic (also \"Traditional\" or \"Classical\") apologetics as concentrating on the first aspect of apologetics with its logical proofs for the existence of God, simply assuming common ground with the non-Christian and utilizing a piece-by-piece methodology. In this scheme, the common foundation of neutral brute facts leads to a generic concept of deity, then to the various characteristics of the Christian God as revealed in Scripture, and so forth. Piece-by-piece, Christian theology is built up from a neutral common ground.\n\nPresuppositionalists assert that many of the classical arguments are logically fallacious, or do not prove enough, when used as arguments to prove the existence or character of God. They criticize both the assumption of neutrality and the \"block house\" or \"piecemeal\" method for failing to start at the level of the controlling beliefs of worldviews and implicitly allowing non-Christian assumptions from the start, thereby trying to build a Christian \"house\" on a non-Christian \"foundation\". Evidentialists demur from this assessment, claiming that presuppositionalism amounts to fideism because it rejects the idea of shared points of reference between the Christian and non-Christian from which they may reason in common.\n\nThe conclusion of evidential apologetics is that the Bible's historical accounts and other truth-claims are more probably true than false, thus the whole of scriptural revelation may be rationally accepted, and where we can't approach absolute certainty we must accept the explanations most likely to be true. The goal of presuppositional apologetics, on the other hand, is to argue that the assumptions and actions of non-Christians require them to believe certain things about God, man, and the world which they claim not to believe. This type of argument is technically called a \"reductio ad absurdum\" in that it attempts to reduce the opposition to holding an absurd, i.e., self-contradictory position; in this case, both believing in facts of Christian revelation (in practice) and denying them (in word). So, in essence, evidential apologetics attempts to build upon a shared acceptance of self-evident or worldview-neutral facts, while presuppositional apologetics attempts to claim all facts for the Calvinistic Christian worldview as the only framework in which they are intelligible.\n\nThe modern origins of presuppositional apologetics are in the work of Dutch theologian Cornelius Van Til, a member of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, who began to adopt a presuppositional approach to defending the truth of his faith as early as the late 1920s. Van Til personally disliked the term \"presuppositional\", as he felt it misrepresented his approach to apologetics, which he felt was focused primarily on the preeminence of the Bible as the ultimate criterion for truth, rather than denying or ignoring evidence. He did, however, accept the label reluctantly, given that it was a useful way of distinguishing between those who deny a neutral basis for apologetics and those who do not. His student, Greg Bahnsen, aided in some of the later developments of Van Tillian Presuppositionalism, and the Bahnsen Theological Seminary continues to promote presuppositional apologetics in its curriculum. John Frame, another student of Van Til, also continues to advocate a presuppositional approach, although he is generally more critical of Van Til's thought than Bahnsen was. Bahnsen's protégé, Michael R. Butler, has also been active in advancing the field. Among his contributions is a technical, metalogical study of transcendental arguments in general and the Transcendental argument for the existence of God in particular, which he wrote for Bahnsen's festschrift.\n\nBy 1952, presuppositional apologetics had acquired a new advocate in the Presbyterian theologian Gordon Clark. He embraced the label \"presuppositional\" since his approach to apologetics, emphasizing the priority of epistemology and an axiom of revelation, was more closely concerned with the logical order of assumptions than was Van Til. The differences between the two views on presuppositionalism, though few in number, caused a significant rift between the two men, and even after both Clark and Van Til had died, John Robbins (a theologian and former student of Clark's) and Bahnsen were often involved in heated exchanges.\n\nIn a 2000 book outlining the major schools of apologetics, the presuppositional approach was given equal time alongside other schools of thought (the \"classical\" and \"evidential\" noted above, for example). In general, Van Til's approach is far more popular and widespread than Clark's. Van Til is considered by Dr. John Frame, Professor of Systematic Theology and Philosophy at Reformed Theological Seminary, to be one of the most outstanding apologists of his time due to his being \"probably the best versed on the history of philosophy and the philosophical issues that bore upon Christianity\"\n\nApologists who follow Van Til earned the label \"presuppositional\" because of their central tenet that the Christian must at all times presuppose the supernatural revelation of the Bible as the ultimate arbiter of truth and error in order to know anything. Christians, they say, can assume nothing less because all human thought presupposes the existence of the God of the Bible. They claim that by accepting the assumptions of non-Christians, which fundamentally deny the Trinitarian God of the Bible, one could not even formulate an intelligible argument. Though Van Tillians do, at one point, \"put themselves in the shoes\" of the opponent, \"for the sake of argument\", to demonstrate where that position would lead, they claim that they can only do so because this is actually God's world, and man is actually God's creature, made in God's own image, and as such can never completely shut God out (in living or thinking)—hence there is always a common basis for dialogue, even though it is, in the presuppositionalist's view, a basis which the opponent is not usually willing to acknowledge and which is decidedly biased rather than neutral.\n\nAccording to Frame, \"[Van Til's] major complaints against competing apologetic methods are theological complaints, that is, that they compromise the incomprehensibility of God, total depravity, the clarity of natural revelation, God's comprehensive control over creation, and so on.\" Within their presuppositionalist framework, Van Tillians do often utilize foundational concepts for Thomistic and Evidentialist arguments (belief in the uniformity of natural causes, for example), but they are unwilling to grant that such beliefs are justifiable on \"natural\" (neutral) grounds. Rather, Van Tillians employ these beliefs, which they justify on Biblical grounds, in the service of \"transcendental arguments\", which are a sort of meta-argument about foundational principles, necessary preconditions, in which the non-Christian's worldview is shown to be incoherent in and of itself and intelligible only because it borrows capital from the Christian worldview. For example, where evidentialists would take the uniformity of natural causes in a closed system as a neutral common starting point and construct a cosmological argument for an unmoved mover, Van Tillian presuppositionalists would ask for a justification for the belief in the uniformity of natural causes in a closed system, given the worldview of the opponent, attempting to show that such a belief presupposes the Christian worldview and is ultimately incompatible with the opposing worldview. Van Til summarized the main drive of his apologetic by saying: \"the only proof for the existence of God is that without God you couldn't prove anything.\"\n\nVan Tillians also stress the importance of reckoning with \"the noetic effects of sin\" (that is, the effects of sin on the mind), which, they maintain, corrupt man's ability to understand God, the world, and himself aright. In their view, as a fallen creature, man does know the truth in each of these areas, but he seeks to find a different interpretation—one in which, as C. S. Lewis said, he is \"on the bench\" and God is \"in the dock.\" The primary job of the apologist is, therefore, simply to confront the unbeliever with the fact that, while he is verbally denying the truth, he is nonetheless practically behaving in accord with it. Van Til illustrated this alleged inconsistency as a child, elevated on the father's knee, reaching up to slap his face, and Bahnsen used the analogy of a man breathing out air to make the argument that air doesn't exist.\n\nAnother important aspect of the Van Tillian apologetical program is the distinction between \"proof\" and \"persuasion\". According to the first chapter of the Epistle to the Romans, man has ample proof in all of creation of God's existence and attributes but chooses to suppress it. Van Til likewise claimed that there are valid arguments to prove that the God of the Bible exists but that the unbeliever would not necessarily be persuaded by them because of his suppression of the truth, and therefore the apologist, he said, must present the truth regardless of whether anyone is actually persuaded by it (Frame notes that the apologist is here akin to the psychiatrist who presents the truth about the paranoid's delusions, trusting that his patient knows the truth at some level and can accept it—though Frame, as a Calvinist, would say the special intervention of God in the Holy Spirit is also required for the unbeliever to accept ultimate truths.) An implication of this position is that all arguments are \"person relative\" in the sense that one non-Christian might be persuaded by a particular argument and another might not be, depending on their background and experiences; even if the argument constitutes logically valid proof.\n\nGordon Clark and his followers treat the truth of the Scriptures as the axiom of their system. Like all axioms, this axiom is considered to be self-evident truth, not to be proven, but used for proof. Theologians and philosophers strongly influenced by Dr. Clark include Francis Schaeffer, Carl F. H. Henry, Ronald Nash, Fuller Theological Seminary President Edward J. Carnell, R. C. Sproul (though with many published reservations) and John Robbins of the Trinity Foundation. Clark's system has been described by Gary Crampton as, \"The 66 books of the Old and New Testaments are self-attesting and self-authenticating. Scripture stands in judgment over all books and ideas, and it is to be judged by no person or thing. The Bible alone is the Word of God. This is the Reformed principle of sola Scriptura.\" However, the worldview that results from the axiom may be tested for consistency and comprehensiveness. Testing for internal contradiction exemplifies Clark's strict reliance on the laws of logic (he famously translates the first verse of the Gospel of John as \"In the beginning was the Logic, and the Logic was with God, and the Logic was God.\") Thus, in order to invalidate non-Christian worldviews, one must simply show how a different presupposition results in necessary logical contradictions, while showing that presupposing the Bible leads to no logical contradiction. By contrast, some Van Tillians have suggested that God as He has revealed Himself in Scripture reveals apparent paradoxes.\n\nHowever, Clark allowed that presupposing axioms (or \"first principles\") themselves do not make a philosophical system true, including his own; the fact that all worldviews he examined other than Christianity had internal contradictions only made Christianity highly more probable as truth, but not necessarily so. Nonetheless, he believed that this method was effective in many practical cases (when arguing against, for instance, secular humanism or dialectical materialism) and that, in the end, each of us must simply choose (that is, make an informed selection) from among seemingly consistent worldviews the one that most adequately answers life's questions and seems the most internally coherent. Some Van Tillian critics suggest that the concept of coherence itself must be defined in terms of Christian presuppositions but is instead being used by Clark as a \"neutral\" principle for discerning the truth of any proposition.\n\nUsing this approach, Clark labored to expose the contradictions of many worldviews that were in vogue in his day and to defend the Christian worldview by proving its consistency over and against those who attacked it. His unflagging use of logic sometimes led him to what most Reformed theologians consider rather unorthodox ideas on such topics as the problem of evil—topics which are most often treated by theologians as paradoxes or apparent contradictions not resolvable by human logic. But Clark famously rejected the idea that Scripture teaches paradoxes and notion of \"apparent contradiction\", asking \"apparent to whom?\". He described an alleged biblical paradox as nothing more than \"a charley-horse between the ears that can be eliminated by rational massage.\"\n\nWith regard to other schools of apologetics, Clark suggested that the cosmological argument was not just unpersuasive but also logically invalid (because it begged the question), and he similarly dismissed the other Thomistic arguments. As a staunch critic of all varieties of empiricism, he did not tend to make much use of evidential arguments, which yield likelihoods and probabilities rather than logical certainties (that is, either coherence or incoherence).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "882015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=882015", "title": "Proofs and Refutations", "text": "Proofs and Refutations\n\nProofs and Refutations is a 1976 book by philosopher Imre Lakatos expounding his view of the progress of mathematics. The book is written as a series of Socratic dialogues involving a group of students who debate the proof of the Euler characteristic defined for the polyhedron. A central theme is that definitions are not carved in stone, but often have to be patched up in the light of later insights, in particular failed proofs. This gives mathematics a somewhat experimental flavour. At the end of the Introduction, Lakatos explains that his purpose is to challenge formalism in mathematics, and to show that informal mathematics grows by a logic of \"proofs and refutations\".\n\nMany important logical ideas are explained in the book. For example, the difference between a counterexample to a lemma (a so-called 'local counterexample') and a counterexample to the specific conjecture under attack (a 'global counterexample' to the Euler characteristic, in this case) is discussed.\n\nLakatos argues for a different kind of textbook, one that uses heuristic style. To the critics that say such a textbook would be too long, he replies: 'The answer to this pedestrian argument is: let us try.'\n\nThe book includes two appendices. In the first, Lakatos gives examples of the heuristic process in mathematical discovery. In the second, he contrasts the deductivist and heuristic approaches and provides heuristic analysis of some 'proof generated' concepts, including uniform convergence, bounded variation, and the Carathéodory definition of a measurable set.\n\nThe pupils in the book are named after letters of the Greek alphabet.\n\nThough the book is written as a narrative, an actual method of investigation, that of \"proofs and refutations\", is developed. In Appendix I, Lakatos summarizes this method by the following list of stages:\n\n\nHe goes on and gives further stages that might sometimes take place:\n\nThe 1976 book has been translated into more than 15 languages worldwide, including Chinese, Korean, Serbo-Croat and Turkish, and went into its second Chinese edition in 2007.\n\nA number of mathematics teachers have implemented Lakatos' method of proofs and refutations in the classroom, when teaching other mathematical topics. The method has been applied to the analysis and presentation of problem solving in mechanics\nby high school to college level students.\n\n"}
{"id": "21664991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21664991", "title": "Ressentiment (Scheler)", "text": "Ressentiment (Scheler)\n\nMax Scheler (1874–1928) was both the most respected and neglected of the major early 20th century German Continental philosophers in the phenomenological tradition. His observations and insights concerning \"a special form of human hate\" and related social and psychological phenomenon furnished a descriptive basis for his philosophical concept of \"Ressentiment\". As a widely recognized convention, the French spelling of this term has been retained in philosophical circles so as to preserve a broad sense of discursive meaning and application. Scheler died unexpectedly of a heart attack in 1928 leaving a vast body of unfinished works. Extrapolations from his thoughts have always since piqued interest and discussion on a variety of topics. His works were on the Nazi book burn list.\n\nAs a concept belonging to the study of ethics, Ressentiment represents the antithetical process of Scheler's emotively informed non-formal ethics of values. But Ressentiment can also be said to be, at once, Scheler's darkest as well as his most psychological and sociological of topics, foreshadowing many later findings in those particular social sciences.\n\nFolk wisdom comes closest to Scheler's meaning by recognizing Ressentiment as a self-defeating turn of mind which is non-productive and ultimately a waste of time and energy. Maturity informs most of us that sustained hatred hurts the hater far more than the object of our hate. Sustained hatred enslaves by preventing emotional growth from progressing beyond the sense of pain having been precipitated, in some way, by whom or what is hated (i.e., another person, group or class of persons).\n\nIt is difficult to imagine the intellectual concern of late 19th and early 20th Century over the collective drift in Western Civilization away from old-guard monarchial and hierarchical societal structures (i.e., one's station in life being determined primarily by birth), toward the relative uncertainty and instability embodied in such Enlightenment Era ideals such as democracy, nationhood, class struggle (Karl Marx), human equality, humanism, egalitarianism, utilitarianism and the like. As such, Ressentiment, as a phenomenon, was first viewed as a pseudo-ethically based political force enabling the lower classes of society to rise in their situation in life at the (perceived) expense of the higher, or more inherently \"noble\" classes. Hence, Ressentiment first emerged as, what some might view, a reactionary and elitist concept by today's democratic standards; while others of a more conservative mind-set might view Ressentiment as liberalism disguised as a socialist attempt at usurping the role of individual responsibility and self-determination. In any event Scheler's contributions regarding this topic can not be fully appreciated without some cursory reference to the thought of Friedrich Nietzsche (1844–1900).\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche used the Kierkegaardian term \"Ressentiment\" as the source of this emerging degenerative morality issuing from an underlying existential distinction between what he saw as the two basic character options available to the individual: the Strong (\"Over Man,\" \"Superman\" or \"Master\") or the Weak (the \"Slave\"). The Master-type fully accepts the burdens of freedom and decides a path of self-determination. The Slave, rather than deciding to be the authentic author of his own destiny, chooses a repressed unsatisfying mode of life, blaming (by projection) his submissiveness, loss of self-esteem and pitiful lot in life upon the dominant Master figure (and his entire social class) who by contrast seems to flourish at every moment. A true enough assessment, given that economic exploitation always seems to lie at the heart of any intrinsic Master / Slave social arrangement, along with the Master class \"washing their hands\" (so to speak) of the burdens of social responsibility. This underlying Ressentiment forms the underlying rationale for a code of conduct (e.g., passive acceptance of abuse, fear of reprisal for asserting personal rights due to implied intimidation, or inability to enjoy life) belonging to the Slave-type or class (\"Slave Morality\").\n\nNietzsche was an atheist and harbored a particular disdain for Christianity, which he viewed as playing a key role in supporting Slave Morality. In supporting the Weak and disadvantaged of humanity, Christianity undermined the authority, social position and cultural progress of the Strong. Nietzsche viewed the progress of such Slave Morality as a sort of violation of the natural order and a thwarting of the authentic advancements of civilization available only through the Strong. This view of a \"natural order\", so typical of 19th Century Europe (e.g., Darwin's Theory of Evolution) is expressed in Nietzsche's metaphysical principal – \"Will to Power\". Scheler, by comparison, ultimately viewed the universal salvic nature of Christian love as contradicting Nietzsche's assessments, and in later life developed an alternate metaphysical dualism of \"Vital Urge\" and \"Spirit\": \"Vital Urge\" as closely allied to \"Will to Power\", and \"Spirit\" as dependent yet truly distinct in character.\n\nContrary to Nietzsche's ultimate intent, much of his legacy ultimately led to an implosion of objectivity in which (i) truth became relative to individual perspective, (ii) \"might ultimately made right\" (\"Social Darwinism\"), and (iii) ethics would become subjective and solipsistic.\n\nBy contrast, Scheler, who also was skeptical over the historically emerging unchecked power of mass culture and the prevalence and leveling power of mediocrity upon ethical standards and upon the individual human person (as a unique sacred value), was nonetheless a theistic ethical objectivist. For Scheler, the phenomenon of Ressentiment principally involved Spirit (as opposed to Will to Power, Drives or Vital Urge), which entailed deeper personal issues involving distortion of the objective realm of values, the self-poisoning of moral character, and personality disorder.\n\nScheler's described Ressentiment in his 1913 book by the same title as follows:\n\"…Ressentiment is a self-poisoning of the mind which has quite definite causes and consequences. It is a lasting mental attitude, caused by the systematic repression of certain emotions and affects which, as such are normal components of human nature. Their repression leads to the constant tendency to indulge in certain kinds of value delusions and corresponding value judgments. The emotions and affects primarily concerned are revenge, hatred, malice, envy, the impulse to detract, and spite.\" \n\nAlthough scholars do not agree on a fixed number or attributes materially defining Ressentiment, they have nonetheless collectively articulated about ten authoritative and insightful points (many times combining them) which stake-out the boundaries of this concept:\n\n1) Ressentiment must first and foremost be understood in relation to, what Scheler termed the \"apriori hierarchy of value modalities\". While the direction of personal transcendence and ethical action is one toward positive and higher values, the direction of Ressentiment and unethical action is one toward negative and lower values. Scheler viewed values as emotively experienced with reference to a universal, objective, constant and unchanging \"apriori hierarchy of value modalities\". From lowest to highest these modalities (with their respective positive and corresponding negative dis-value forms) are as follows: sensual values of the agreeable and the disagreeable; vital values of the noble and vulgar; mental (psychic) values of the beautiful and ugly, right and wrong and truth and falsehood; and finally values of the Holy and Unholy of the Divine and Idols. Ressentiment represents the dark underside, or inversion, of Scheler's vision of a personal and transformational non-formal ethics of values.\n\n2) Ressentiment, as a personal disposition, has its genesis in negative psychic feelings and feeling states which most people experience as normal reactive responses to the demands of social life: i.e., envy, jealousy, anger, hatred, spite, malice, joy over another's misfortune, mean spirited competition, etc. The objective sources of such feeling states responses might be occasioned by almost anything: e.g., personal criticism, ridicule, mockery, rejection, abandonment, etc.\n\nFor the individual person, the ethical and psychological issue becomes how the energy from these feeling states will be channeled so as to better benefit the individual person and society.\n\n3) Ressentiment is highly situational in character in that it always involves \"mental comparisons\" (value-judgments) with other people who allegedly have no such Ressentiment feelings, and who likewise exhibit genuinely positive values. Hence, although Ressentiment might begin with something like admiration and respect, but surely ends in a sort of coveting of those personal qualities and goods of another: i.e., advantages afforded by their beauty, intelligence, charm, wit, personality, education, talent, skills, possessions, wealth, work achievement, family affiliation and the like. This early stage of Ressentiment resembles what we might refer to today as an inferiority complex.\n\nHowever, one can easily extend this notion of \"comparing\" to externally acquired qualifiers having the potential for negative valuations which also tend to a support consumer based economics: i.e., status symbol possessions (a lavish house, or car), expensive fashion accessories, special privileges, club memberships, plastic surgery and the like. This principal is expressed in our common colloquialism of \"Keeping-up with the Jones'\". The subliminal result of all of these \"comparisons\" tend to lend credence the idea that one's self-concept, self-image, self-esteem, worth or social desirability is linked to our social inclusion or exclusion in a favored superior class having the means to insulate themselves from the rest of society.\n\n4) Ressentiment, as situational, also typically extends to inherent social roles. Many social roles involve relationships frequently occasioning some level of inter-personal value-judgment with accompanying negative psychic feelings and feeling states which suggest dominant and submissive roles, not unlike Nietzsche's Master-Slave dichotomy. For example:\n\n\n5) Ressentiment triggers a tendency in people which Scheler termed \"Man's Inherent Fundamental Moral Weakness\": a sense of hopelessness which pre-disposes a person to regress and seek surrogates of lower value as a source of solace.\n\nWhen personal progress becomes stagnant or frustrated in moving from a negative to a more positive plateau given a relatively high vital or psychic level of value attainment, there is an inherent tendency toward regression in terms of indulgence in traditional vices and a host of other physical and psychological addictions and self-destructive modes of behavior (e.g., the use of narcotics). This tendency to seek surrogates to compensate for a frustration with higher value attainment inserts itself into the scenario of consumerist materialism as an insatiable self-defeating need \"to have more\" in order to fill the void of our own philosophical bankruptcy and spiritual poverty.\n\nFurther refining Ressentiment, Scheler wrote:\n\"Through its very origin, ressentiment is therefore chiefly confined to those who serve and are dominated at the moment, who fruitlessly resent the sting of authority. When it occurs elsewhere, it is either due to psychological contagion—and the spiritual venom of ressentiment is extremely contagious – or to the violent suppression of an impulse which subsequently revolts by \"embittering\" and \"poisoning\" the personality.\" \nHence, certain advanced characteristics of Ressentiment link this phenomenon to what we might refer to today as personality disorders. As such, Ressentiment Proper (\"Pathological Ressentiment’) is not materially linked exclusively to issues of socio-economic status, but rather cuts across all socio-economic strata of society to include even the most powerful.\n\n6) In Pathological Ressentiment a Sense of Impotency develops on the part of those experiencing ressentiment-feelings, especially if situational and social factors weigh so heavily so as render a person unable to release or resolve negative psychic feelings and feeling states in a positive and constructive manner: what we refer to today in psychological terms as repression.\n\nOriginally understood, Ressentiment is defused whenever one has the power and ability to physically retaliate, or act out, against an oppressor. For example, an ancient Roman citizen, as Master, could be expected to take revenge straight away upon his Slave while the reverse would be unthinkable. \"When [negative psychic feelings and feeling states] can be acted out, no ressentiment results. But when a person is unable to release these feelings against the persons or groups evoking them, thus developing a sense of impotence, and when these feelings are continuously re-experienced over time, then ressentiment arises.\" \n\nBut for Scheler, the essence of Impotency as characteristic of Pathological Ressentiment has less to do with the actual presence of an external oppressor, and more to do with a self-inflicted personal sense of inadequacy over limitations in the face of positive value attainment itself. Hence, Resesentiment-feelings tend to be continuously re-experienced over time in a self-perpetuating manner primarily fueled by a sense of inadequacy felt within the self which the \"other\" really only occasions. For example, one can have every advantage in life given them, yet prove to lack the talent for achieving the goals set for him or her self.\n\nThese re-experienced feelings of impotency become rationalized on a subconscious level as knee-jerk attitudinal projections: i.e., prejudices, bias, racism, bigotry, cynicism, and closed mindedness.\n\nNoteworthy is the \"abstract\" focus of Ressentiment: the fact that specific individuals (i.e., the \"Master figure\" or their counterpart \"Slave figure\") are no longer even required for Ressentiment feelings and their rationalized forms of expression to continue and drive forward. One only needs a representative member of the class of one's focus of resentment to be represented in some way. \"Members of a group can become random targets of hate, borne out of impotence that seeks to level the group.\" Such a random formal treatment of \"otherness\" offers a plausible explanation for hate crimes, serial killings (in part), genocide, the general framing of an enemy in faceless non-human terms, as well as any top-down or bottom-up form of class warfare agenda, etc. Hence, there must be a psychic distancing of de-personalization between Master and Slave perceptions of \"the other\" in order for Ressentiment to operate effectively.\n\n7) Pathological Ressentiment entails \"Value-Delusion\". Value Delusion is \"a tendency to belittle, degrade, dismiss or to ‘reduce’ genuine values as well as their bearers.\" However, this is done in a distinctively non-productive manner because \"ressentiment does not lead to affirmation of counter-values since ressentiment-imbued persons secretly crave the values they publicly denounce.\" This aspect of Value Delusions represents a \"horizontal\" shift of value judgment concerning things and the world from a positive to a more negative orientation. What was once loved or thought of as good becomes devalued as \"sour grapes\" or \"damaged goods\" in the mind of the Ressentiment-imbued person, and what was previously lacking in value is now elevated to the status of acceptable.\n\nIn spite of this decidedly negative direction, \"the ressentiment-subject is continuously 'plagued' by those distractions of unattainable values in that he emotionally replaces them with disvalues issuing forth from his impotence. In the background of such an illusory and self-deceiving over-turning of positive values with illusory negative valuations there still remains transparency of the true objective order of values and their ranks.\" Hence, the demands of Value-Delusion manifest in what we commonly refer to as a superiority complex, i.e., arrogance, hubris, hypocrisy, employment of double standards, denial, revenge, and self-projection of one's own negative qualities onto the opposition.\n\nCorrespondingly, negative feeling states suggest the absence, repudiation or flight from positive values. But nonetheless, negative values do not stand on their own intrinsic merit: they always refer back in some way to correspondingly positive values. Emotionally, Value Delusion turns happiness to sadness, compassion to hate, hope to despair, self-respect to shame, love and acceptance to rejection (or worse, competition), resolve to dread, and so on down throughout the human emotional strata.\n\nDelusion is essential for the Ressentiment-imbued person in order to maintain any semblance of mental homeostasis.\n\n8) Pathological Ressentiment ultimately manifests as \"Metaphysical Confusion\". Metaphysical Confusion is a form of Value Delusion in which the value shift is more \"vertical\" in character, in relation to the apriori hierarchy of value modalities. In this dimension, Value Delusion occurs a sort of twisting, or false inversion, of the value hierarchy wherein higher value-contents and bearers are viewed as lower, and lower as higher. Today we commonly refer to this phenomenon as \"Having One's Priorities Out of Order.\" Scheler illustrated such an inversion in his analysis of Western civilizations humanistic, materialistic and capitalistic propensities to elevate utility values above those of vital values. Carried to the logical extreme, \"Ressentiment brings its most important achievement when it determines a whole \"morality,\" preventing the rules of preference until what was \"evil\" appears \"good\".\n\n9) Pathological Ressentiment ultimately results in a deadening (psychological numbing) of normal sympathetic feeling states, as well as all higher forms of psychic and spiritual feelings and feeling states. As opposed to a pure well ordered emotive life (\"Ordo Amoris\") appropriate to the ethical person as created in God's image through love (\"ens amans\"), Pathological Ressentiment emotively results in a disordered heart (\"de’ordre du coeurs\"), or what we might commonly refer to as a \"hardened heart.\"\n\nFor Scheler, morality finds expression in response to \"the call of the hour\", or exercise of personal conscience, which is based the heart's proper order of love (\"Ordo Amoris\") in relation to positive and higher values. By contrast, Ressentiment with its corresponding Value-Delusions willfully favors varying degrees of a disordered heart (\"de’ordre du coeurs\") and twisted emotions consistent with personality disorders. For example, it is precisely the failure to feel for and identify with their victims (even to the extent of deriving sadistic pleasure) which characterizes the sociopath, the psychopath, the serial killer, the dictator, the rapist, the bully, the corrupt CEO and the ruthless drug dealer—all share this same common denominator. Common Law would refer to this quality as \"cold blooded\".\n\nAuthor Erick Larson in his book \"Devil in the White City\" renders with great precision a literary description of this deadening of higher feeling states in reference to America's first serial killer, Herman Webster Mudgett, alias Dr. H.H. Holmes\n\"…Holmes was charming and gracious, but something about him made Belkamp [the antagonist] uneasy. He could not have defined it. Indeed for the next several decades alienists [early psychologists] and their successors would find themselves hard-pressed with any precision what it was about men like Holmes that caused them to seem warm and integrating but also telegraph the vague sense that some important element of humanness was missing. At first alienists described this condition as \"moral insanity\" and those who exhibited the disorder as \"moral imbeciles.\" They later adopted the term \"psychopath\"…as a \"new malady\" and stated, \"Besides his own person and his own interests, nothing is sacred to the psychopath.\"\nThe Ressentiment-Imbued person exercises such a pronounced psychic distance from his victims so as to never fully achieve the desired lasting satisfaction produced though his own unethical actions. \"Retaliation\" of this sort no longer yields any good, and \"expression\" of this sort lacks all possibility of positive results. \"In true ressentiment there is no emotive satisfaction but only a life-long anger and anguish in feelings that are compared with others.\" \n\nUnfortunately in general, our particular era suffers from a pronounced inability to feel higher levels of vital psychic (intellectual and sympathetic) and spiritual feeling states. For example, the process of our legal system tends to convert the absolute character of moral sentiments to a \"blameless\" game of negotiation of cost vs. benefits. Can we even imagine the moral education furnished by such archaic practices as the stockade or tar and feathering so as to invoke real public humiliation for crimes? In addition, we as a culture have become so desensitized to feelings of outrage over public persons of power and stature lacking in all feelings of shame over their wrongdoings that our greatest moral problem becomes one of complacency.\n\n10) Finally, Pathological Ressentiment bears a particular relation to the Socio-Political Realm by virtue of, what Scheler describes as, man's lowest form of social togetherness, \"Psychic Contagion\". Psychic Contagion is the phenomenon of uncritically \"following the crowd\", or mob mentality, liken to lemmings charging over a cliff. Positive examples, are good natured crowds in a pub or at sporting events; a negative example, violent rioting. As a concept, Psychic Contagion bears an affinity to Nietzsche's assessment of Slave-type mentality.\n\nTo the extent that the politically powerful (i.e., the \"Master\" faction or \"Slave\" faction of society, as the case might be) are able to rally collective cultural animosities through the use of Psychic Contagion, they increase their ability to achieve their underlying socio-political objectives. Such methods usually take the forms of incendiary rhetoric, scapegoat tactics (e.g., anti-Semitism, homophobia, hatred toward welfare recipients and the disadvantaged, etc.), class warfare, partisan politics, propaganda, excessive secrecy / non-transparency, closed minded political ideology, jingoism, misguided nationalism, violence, and waging unjust war.\n\nThe use of such methods of negative Psychic Contagion can be viewed as having propelled such historical figures or movements as Nero (burning of Rome), the French Revolution (Ressentiment in the original concept), Hitler (genocide of the Jews, the Aryan Master Race agenda and the \"Lebensborn\" project), the 1975-1979 Cambodian Khmer Rouge (genocidal social engineering), the 1994 Rwanda (tribal based genocide), International Fundamental Islamic Terrorism.\n\nIt is a mistake to assess Scheler's concept of Ressentiment as chiefly a theory of psychological pathology, though surely it is that in part. In addition, Ressentiment is a philosophical and ethical concept from which to assess the spiritual and cultural health both of individual persons and society as a whole: a task which seems all the more urgent given economic globalization (i.e., a tendency toward \"carte blanche\" predatory capitalism). For example, it is entirely acceptable to view human ethical transcendence as complementary and commensurate with a bottom-up psychology of needs and drives so long as the arch of that qualitative direction is positive in nature. However the reverse is false. Negative parallel aspects are irreducible to Scheler's top-down metaphysical principal of good as emanating from our personal development as spiritual beings. This distinction is illustrated by the many cases in which negative role models can, and do, emerge as highly self-actualized economically powerful individuals from a psychological standpoint (clearly \"Superman\" type persons), but who are entirely lacking from an ethical, social and spiritual standpoint: e.g., the drug king-pin or pimp as a person young boys admire and look up to, or the corrupt CEO who absconds with obscene bonuses while his company goes bankrupt and the employee pension fund disintegrates. These negative manifestations of values and value inversions demonstrate how the philosophical conception of Ressentiment rests upon qualitatively different grounds transcending science and pure economics.\n\nFor Scheler, Ressentiment is essentially a matter of self in relation to values, and only proximately an issue of social conflict over resources, power and the like (Master / Slave, or dominant / submissive relationships). For Scheler, what we call \"having class\", for instance, is not something as one-dimensional as power, money, or goods and services readily sold or purchased. Rather, liken to the array of apriori hierarchy of value modalities, \"class\" has to do with \"who\" you make of yourself as a person, which involves a whole range of factors including moral character, integrity, talents, aptitudes, achievements, education, virtues (i.e., generosity), reciprocal respect among diverse individuals (active citizenship) and the like.\n\nScheler's formulation of Ressentiment backhandedly acknowledges the underlying principal of love, as replacing raw will to power, with its accompanying decision to pursue uncompassionate domination of our fellow man. As such, the best case scenario for Nietzsche's Master / Slave distinction lies in the free self-mastery by the individual person to channel negative psychic feelings and feeling states, and to become disillusioned with unpragmatic beliefs, so as to intelligently benefit themselves and society. As such, we should promote a society which is inclusive, rather than exclusive, in character; but which also promotes individual and social responsibility. Repression should be constructively defused wherever reasonable and possible. We might also foster a society which seeks to resolve (instead of deny) attitudinal conflicts and differences through constructive means: i.e., dialogue, education, constructive negotiation, enhanced personal communication, and professional intervention. Force and violence should always be used only as a last resort.\n\nSince society must be guided by the rule of law above power, we must promote government which relies upon fairness (See John Rawls) and egalitarian principal in terms of channeling our national economic forces. Self-interest (as in Adam Smith's \"invisible hand\") is man's (and nature's) most highly efficient means of positively converting Vital Urge into human economic benefits-—the point at which \"the rubber hits the road\"—but it is also a force highly susceptible to greed. Therefore, government must insure that such raw pursuit of utility value is not purely an end in itself, but must serve primarily to form an economic base upon which genuine value strata and culture can take root and flourish for the common good as well as everyone's respective individual needs. We should realize that living with less materially does not diminish in any way our access to greater emotional, intellectual, artistic and spiritual fulfillment. Only in such ways can virtue truly become its own reward.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27129695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27129695", "title": "Revolutionary Suicide", "text": "Revolutionary Suicide\n\nRevolutionary Suicide is an autobiography written by Huey P. Newton, co-founder and leader of the Black Panther Party (BPP). The Chief ideologue and strategist of the BPP, Newton taught himself how to read during his last year of high school, which led to his enrollment in Merrit College in Oakland in 1966; the same year he formed what was then known as the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense. The Party urged members to challenge the status quo with armed patrols of the impoverished streets of black Oakland, and to form coalitions with other oppressed groups. The party spread across America and internationally as well, forming coalitions with the Vietnamese, Chinese, and Cubans.\nThe book was republished by Penguin books and includes an introduction by Fredrika Newton (Huey's widow). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "57551632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57551632", "title": "Richard Moran (philosopher)", "text": "Richard Moran (philosopher)\n\nRichard Moran () is an American philosopher. He is Brian D. Young Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University, where he specializes in philosophy of mind, moral psychology and philosophy of art. \n\nMoran received a Ph.D. from Cornell University in 1989, under the supervision of Sydney Shoemaker and joined the faculty at Princeton University as an assistant professor. He accepted a tenured offer to teach in the Department of Philosophy at Harvard University in Fall 1995.\n\nMoran has written several books including \"Authority and Estrangement: An Essay on Self-Knowledge\" (2001), \"The Philosophical Imagination\" (2017), and \"The Exchange of Words: Speech, Testimony, and Intersubjectivity\" (2018).\n\n \n"}
{"id": "31673006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31673006", "title": "Rishi order", "text": "Rishi order\n\nThe Rishi order of Kashmir is a Sufi tradition associated with religious harmony. Many of the saints held dear by Kashmiris to this day were Sufi Rishis. The original Rishis include Sheikh Noor-ud-din Wali also known as Nund Rishi , Resh Mir Sàeb . The Rishi order has made an important contribution to Kashmiriyat, the ethnic, national, social and cultural consciousness of the Kashmiri people, as well as a distinctive contribution to global Islam.\n\nThe 17th-century poet Baba Nasib sums up the impact of the Rishi order thus: \"The candle of religion is lit by the Rishis, they are the pioneers of the path of belief. The heart-warming quality of humble souls emanates from the inner purity of the hearts of the Rishis. This vale of Kashmir, that you call a paradise, owes a lot of its charm to the traditions set in vogue by the Rishis.\"\n\nThe original Rishi Sufis were focused on seclusion and emphasis on meditation. In his memoirs, Jahangir says that \"though they have no religious knowledge or learning of any sort, yet they possess simplicity and are without pretence. They abuse no one. They restrain the tongue of desire and the foot of seeking. They eat no flesh, they have no wives and always plant fruit bearing trees in the fields so that men may benefit by them, themselves desiring no advantage. There are about 2,000 of these people.\"\n\nIn recent years, the history of the Rishi order has attracted interest from scholars such as Mohammad Ishaq Khan.\n\nKashmiris use the Hindu epithets Rishi or Baba to describe these Sufi saints. The Shaivite yogini Lal Ded was a key influence on Nund Rishi, and is said to have suckled him at her breast when he was an infant. Sufi Rishis were certainly aware of yogic practices, as evidenced by the poet Shams Faqir's praise of Lal Ded: \"Lalla achieved the fusion of her vital air and ether, and thus realized God.\" However, the Sufi Rishis made an effort to clearly distance themselves from certain Hindu practices. Some were farmers, and Nund Rishi himself is said to cultivated land in order to demonstrate the spiritual and social importance of manual labour, restricted for the Brahmins.\n\nFURTHER READING:\n"}
{"id": "1342858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1342858", "title": "Robert Alexy", "text": "Robert Alexy\n\nRobert Alexy (born September 9, 1945 in Oldenburg, Germany) is a jurist and a legal philosopher.\n\nAlexy studied law and philosophy at the University of Göttingen. He received his PhD in 1976 with the dissertation \"A Theory of Legal Argumentation\", and he achieved his Habilitation in 1984 with a \"Theory of Constitutional Rights\".\n\nHe is a professor at the University of Kiel and in 2002 he was appointed to the Academy of Sciences and Humanities at the University of Göttingen. In 2010 he was awarded the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany.\n\nAlexy's definition of law looks like a mix of Kelsen's normativism (which was an influential version of legal positivism) and Radbruch's legal naturalism (Alexy, 2002), but Alexy's theory of argumentation (Alexy, 1983) puts him very close to legal interpretivism.\n\nSince 2008 the Universities of Alicante, Buenos Aires, Tucamán, Antwerp, National University of San Marcos in Lima, Prague, Coimbra, Porto Alegre, Belo Horizonte, Chapecó, Rio de Janeiro and Bogotá awarded him the honorary doctorate degree. \n\n\nGeorge Pavlakos (ed), Law, Rights and Discourse: The Legal Philosophy of Robert Alexy (Hart Publishing, 2007)\n\nMatthias Klatt (ed), Institutionalized Reason: The Jurisprudence of Robert Alexy (Oxford University Press, 2012) \n"}
{"id": "52895040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52895040", "title": "Ryugen-ji", "text": "Ryugen-ji\n\nKizan Ryugen-ji (機山龍源寺), Ryugen-ji for short, is a Rinzai Zen Buddhist temple in Madison, Wisconsin. Ryugen-ji anchors the Madison Rinzai Zen Community, and is a branch of Korinji Rinzai Zen monastery. Meido Zentetsu Moore Roshi, the Korinji abbot, serves as Ryugen-ji's guiding teacher.\n\nBoth Ryugen-ji and Korinji belong to a network of associated Zen practice groups called the Rinzai Zen Community (RZC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31800158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31800158", "title": "Spiritual church movement", "text": "Spiritual church movement\n\nThe spiritual church movement is an informal name for a group of loosely allied and also independent Spiritualist churches and Spiritualist denominations that have in common that they have been historically based in the African American community.\n\nMany of them owe their origin to the evangelical work of Leafy Anderson, a Black religious leader of the early 20th century who was born in Wisconsin and in 1913 founded the Eternal Life Christian Spiritualist Association. In 1920 she relocated to New Orleans, Louisiana, where she demonstrated mediumship by bringing messages from her spirit guide Black Hawk, a historical war leader of the Native American Sauk tribe, who had lived near where she was born.\n\nAlthough the churches founded by Anderson are often associated with New Orleans, the spiritual church movement has always been national in scope. It spread quickly throughout America during the 1920s, and one impetus for its diffusion was that in 1922, the National Spiritualist Association of Churches expelled or made unwelcome all of its Black members. This led to the formation of a national group called the Colored Spiritualist Association of Churches, and within a few years there were Black Spiritualist churches in Chicago, Detroit, Philadelphia, and many other cities. During the decade preceding World War II, the Spiritual churches of New York City were well documented in print and film.\n\nAt the present time, the spiritual church movement encompasses primarily churches which are influenced by Protestant Christian worship styles, especially Baptist and Pentecostal praise music, as well as churches that contain a great deal of Catholic imagery, including the veneration of saints.\n\nIt is common usage to distinguish spiritual church movement churches from other, often less explicitly Christian, Spiritualist churches, by the use of the name \"Spiritual\" rather than \"Spiritualist\" in their titles. This naming convention is found in mid-20th-century books such as \"How To Conduct a Candle Light Service\" by Mikhail Strabo and Rev. Adele Clemens of Divine Harmony Spiritual Church. It is also notable in the names of Christian Spiritualist denominations within the Spiritual Church Movement, such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "938581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=938581", "title": "Tomáš Halík", "text": "Tomáš Halík\n\nTomáš Halík (; born 1 June 1948) is a Czech Roman Catholic priest, philosopher, theologian and scholar. He is a professor of Sociology at Charles University in Prague, pastor of the Academic Parish by St. Salvator Church in Prague, and president of the Czech Christian Academy. Since 1989, he has lectured at a number of universities and international scientific conferences in Europe, the United States, Asia, Australia, Canada, and Southern Africa. He was also a visiting professor at Oxford University, Cambridge University and Harvard University.\n\nHe is an author of numerous books on the matter of religion and spirituality and he's also a recipient of numerous awards and prizes including Templeton Prize, Romano Guardini Prize and honorary degree from Oxford University. In 2008, Pope Benedict XVI granted him the title of Monsignor Honorary Prelate of His Holiness.\n\nAs an active member of religious and cultural dissent during Communist era, Halík was appointed by Pope John Paul II as an advisor to the Pontifical Council for Dialogue with Non-Believers in 1992. In the Saint Salvator Church in Prague, he often holds joint prayers and meditations with members of other religions such as Jews, Buddhists, and even Muslims. Due to his views on the other religions, his support for registered partnerships (but not gay marriage), and his stance on immigration, he has received both praise and criticism.\n\nHalík converted to Roman Catholicism at 18 years old, due to the influence of writers like G. K. Chesterton and Graham Greene. He studied Sociology and Philosophy at Charles University, in Prague, then Czechoslovakia, where he was a student of Jan Patočka. He moved briefly abroad to study English at the University of Wales, in Bangor, where he was surprised by the Soviet-led invasion of his country, meant to crush the Prague Spring, in August 1968. He returned to Prague, where he graduated in 1972. He did a speech at his doctoral graduation ceremony that was deemed subversive by the Communist regimen, leading him to be banned from teaching or holding any academic position. He then worked as a psychotherapist, from 1972 to 1975. He held the chair of Psychology of Work for the Institute of the Ministry of Labour, from 1975 to 1984. Meanwhile, Halík studied clandestinely Theology in Prague, and on 21 August 1978, was secretly ordained as a Catholic priest in Erfurt, East Germany. He studied and received a post degree in Psychology from the Institute of Medicine in Prague in 1984. He worked as a psychotherapist for drug addicts and alcoholics at the clinic for cure of addictions of the Charles University, in Prague, from 1984 to 1990. In the 1980s he was active in the \"underground church\" and was a close associate of Cardinal František Tomášek, before the fall of communism in Eastern Europe in 1989.\n\nAfter the \"Velvet Revolution\", which meant the triumph of democracy in his country, he was one of the external advisers of Czech president Václav Havel. Pope John Paul II appointed him as an adviser to the Pontifical Council for Dialogue with Non-Believers in 1992. He licenciated in Theology at the Pontifical Lateran University, in Rome, in 1992. The same year he took a higher doctorate in Sociology from Charles University and ThDr.hab. in Practical Theology at the Pontifical Theological University in Warsaw, Poland. Halík joined the Sociology Faculty at his alma-mater in 1993 and became a professor in 1997. He is also the head of the Religious Studies Department. As a visiting fellow, he held lectureships at both Oxford University and Cambridge University, in England. Hálik is the rector of the Church of the Holy Saviour, in Prague, since 1990, and co-founder and longtime President of the Czech Christian Academy. Pope Benedict XVI nominated him monsignor, as an honorary prelate of the pope, in 2008.\n\nHe often publicly discusses ethical issues, such as racism, political and religious intolerance, the process of secularisation, as well as the process of European expansion and integration.\n\nTomáš Halík is a member of several scientific societies, including the European Society for Catholic Theology, the International Society for the Psychology of Religion, and Washington-based Czechoslovak Society for Science and the Arts.\n\nIn 2010, his book \"Patience with God\" (\"Vzdáleným nablízku: vášeň a trpělivost v setkání víry s nevírou\") was named book of the month by the U.S. Catholic Book Club and was awarded Europe's best theological book prize.\n\nHalík has publicly speculated a run for the Czech presidency. In 2015, Zdeněk Škromach announced he would run, to which Halík had said the year earlier that, if there were no candidates worthy, naming Škromach as one such candidate, he would have a moral obligation to run. However, in early 2016, he stated that he believed the office of president no longer appealed to him, as \"it is the time for demagogues\" such as the current Czech President Miloš Zeman and Donald Trump. He also did not believe he had high chances of succeeding in the 2018 race, as he would have only won \"the voices of the sane and educated\", believing that he would need to go against his moral compass and campaign on a populist and controversial platform.\n\nTomáš Halík has received many distinguished awards for his merits in inter-religious dialogue, his scholarly and pedagogical activity, his promotion of spiritual freedom and human rights, and for literature, including:\n\n\nBooks in English\nBooks in Czech\nBooks in French\nBooks in Italian\nBooks in German\nBooks in Spanish\nBooks in Portuguese\nBooks in Dutch\n\n"}
{"id": "15769011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15769011", "title": "Valentin Ferdinandovich Asmus", "text": "Valentin Ferdinandovich Asmus\n\nValentin Ferdinandovich Asmus (; 1894–1975) was a Russian philosopher. He was one of the small group who continued the classical European philosophical tradition through the early Soviet times. \nHe was an independent thinker and unorthodox Marxist, with interests in the history of philosophy and aesthetics.\n\nHe graduated from Kiev University in 1919, then moved to Moscow in 1927. \nAt this period he attacked the views of William James. \nIn the mid-1920s, he was a theorist of literary Constructivism.\n\nThrough his wife Irina, he became a friend of Boris Pasternak, from about 1931. \nHis major work \"Marx and Bourgeois Historicism\" (1933) was influenced by György Lukács. \nAt this point an opponent of formal logic, he changed position and wrote a textbook on it. There is a story of his being summoned to see Joseph Stalin, and required to give logic lectures to Red Army generals.\n\nHe was Professor at Moscow State University from 1942 to 1972. \nIn the 1960s he edited Plato, with A. F. Losev. Outside the USSR, Asmus was mostly known for his contributions to studying Immanuel Kant.\n"}
{"id": "1205345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1205345", "title": "William Henry (gunsmith)", "text": "William Henry (gunsmith)\n\nWilliam Henry (May 19, 1729 – December 15, 1786) was an American gunsmith, engineer and merchant from Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and a delegate for Pennsylvania to the Continental Congress in 1784, 1785, and 1786. Henry is also noted for his contributions in development of the first steam engines.\n\nWilliam Henry was born near Downingtown, Pennsylvania to a family of Scots-Irish extraction. Prior to his service in the Continental Congress, Henry was a gunsmith and provided rifles to the British during the French and Indian War: Henry himself, serving as armorer, accompanied troops on John Forbes's successful mission to retake Fort Duquesne in 1758. By 1760, according to Scott Paul Gordon, Henry had largely abandoned his occupation of gunsmith and had become a successful ironmonger and merchant in Lancaster.\n\nHenry later served in many positions of public responsibility, including Assistant Commissary General to the Continental Army for the district of Lancaster and, in 1779, Commissary of Hides for Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland. In these positions, Henry managed vast sums of money and acquired and transferred enormous amounts of material. (He was no longer producing guns, but he did acquire them—along with shoes, hats, flour—to supply them to state and continental troops.) In 1780 Henry informed Joseph Reed that he had \"laid out…between Sixty & Seventy Thousand Pound\" just to \"purchase Leather and Paying Workmens Wages at the Shoe-Factory[s]\" he had established \"at Philadelphia, Allentown and Lancaster.\" His correspondence is filled with letters from Army leaders, including George Washington, begging for arms and other materials. Henry was the Treasurer of Lancaster Country for many years, a position filled by his wife, Ann Wood Henry, after Henry's death in 1786.\n\nHenry was an intellectual who helped found Lancaster's Juliana Library-Company in 1759, which during the Revolution and after was housed in his residence, and he held membership in the American Philosophical Society in Philadelphia, whose first \"Transactions\" (1771) printed Henry's account of his invention of a \"Description of a Self-Moving or Sentinel Register\" to regulate the flue of a furnace. Henry invented a screw auger, manufactured and sold exclusively at his Lancaster store, and some credit him with inventing the steamboat: the twelve-year-old Robert Fulton, a Lancaster neighbor, visited Henry in 1777, who had been experimenting since 1763 on boats with steam engines on the Conestoga River (Fulton's own experiments began only in 1786 in England). Henry and his family were members of the Moravian Congregation at Lancaster. Henry was the earliest patron of Benjamin West, who lodged in Henry's home in Lancaster in 1756 and painted portraits of William and Ann Henry, probably shortly after their marriage. More significantly, Henry encouraged West to paint \"The Death of Socrates\" (1756), perhaps the first history painting produced in the colonies; West always credited Henry with having initiated the painter's interest in history painting, the genre for which the painter became so famous.\n\nHenry's sons carried on his gun business, in Lancaster, in Philadelphia, in Nazareth, Pennsylvania, and then in Boulton, PA. One of his sons, John Joseph Henry, served as a sixteen-year-old rifleman on Benedict Arnold's march on Quebec in the fall and winter of 1775 (he was captured and imprisoned for much of 1776), and later served as president judge of the second District in Pennsylvania from 1795-1811.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1447455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1447455", "title": "Władysław Tatarkiewicz", "text": "Władysław Tatarkiewicz\n\nWładysław Tatarkiewicz (; 3 April 1886, Warsaw – 4 April 1980, Warsaw) was a Polish philosopher, historian of philosophy, historian of art, esthetician, and ethicist.\n\nTatarkiewicz began his higher education at Warsaw University. When it was closed by the Russian Imperial authorities in 1905, he was forced to continue his education abroad in Marburg, where he studied from 1907 to 1910.\n\nAs he describes in his \"Memoirs\", it was a chance encounter with a male relative, whose height made him stand out above the crowd at a Kraków railroad station, upon the outbreak of World War I that led Tatarkiewicz to spend the war years in Warsaw. There he began his career as a lecturer in philosophy, teaching at a girls' school on Mokotowska Street, across the street from where Józef Piłsudski was to reside during his first days after World War I.\n\nDuring World War I, when the Polish University of Warsaw was opened under the sponsorship of the occupying Germans – who wanted to win Polish support for their war effort – Tatarkiewicz directed its philosophy department in 1915–19.\n\nIn 1919–21 he was professor at Stefan Batory University in Wilno, in 1921–23 at the University of Poznań, and in 1923–61 again at the University of Warsaw. In 1930 he became a member of the Polish Academy of Sciences.\n\nDuring World War II, risking his life, he conducted underground lectures in German-occupied Warsaw (one of the auditors was Czesław Miłosz). After the suppression of the Warsaw Uprising (August–October 1944) he again consciously risked his life when retrieving a manuscript from the gutter, where a German soldier had hurled it (this and other materials were later published as a book, in English translation titled \"Analysis of Happiness\").\n\nWładysław Tatarkiewicz died the day after his 94th birthday. In his \"Memoirs\", published shortly before, he recalled having been ousted from his University chair (by Henryk Holland, a politically connected former student). Characteristically, he saw even that indignity as a blessing in disguise, as it gave him freedom from academic duties, and leisure to pursue research and writing.\n\nTatarkiewicz reflected that at all crucial junctures of his life, he had failed to foresee events, many of them tragic, but that this had probably been for the better, since he could not have altered them anyway.\n\nTatarkiewicz belonged to the interbellum Lwów–Warsaw school of logic, created by Kazimierz Twardowski, which gave reborn Poland many scholars and scientists: philosophers, logicians, psychologists, sociologists, and organizers of academia.\n\nTatarkiewicz educated generations of Polish philosophers, estheticians and art historians, as well as a multitude of interested laymen. He posthumously continues to do so through his \"History of Philosophy\" and numerous other works.\n\nIn his final years, Tatarkiewicz devoted considerable attention to securing translations of his major works. Of the below incomplete listing of his works, his 1909 German-language doctoral thesis, and his \"History of Philosophy\", \"Łazienki warszawskie\", \"Parerga\", and \"Memoirs\" have not been translated into English.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34515431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34515431", "title": "Yunyan Tansheng", "text": "Yunyan Tansheng\n\nYunyan Tansheng (; ) was a Chán Buddhist monk during the Tang Dynasty. Ancient biographies record that he was from Jianchang. He is said to have become a monk when he was sixteen at Shimen Temple with Baizhang Huaihai as his teacher. After twenty years with him, Baizhang died and Yuyan had still had not attained enlightenment. He visited many teachers before settling on Yaoshan Weiyan as his new master. The first part of his name comes from Yunyan Mountain, which is outside of modern Changsha, where he taught after studying with Yaoshan. Recorded dialogues involving Yunyan often include him and his fellow student, Daowu Yuanzhi. He supposedly died from illness, the day before which he ordered his students to prepare for a banquet because a monk was preparing to depart the monastery.\n\nA well known poem, the \"Song of the Precious Mirror Samādhi\", is attributed to Yunyan in Juefan Huihong's biographical compilation of 1119, the \"Chanlin sengbao zhuan\" (\"Chronicle of the Saṅgha Treasure in the Groves of Chán\"). This is the first time this poem is mentioned in the historical record. Huihong writes that the poem was given to Dongshan Liangjie, Yunyan's student, but that he believes Yunyan's teacher probably gave it to him in turn. Huihong further relates that he came upon the poem in 1108, when it was given to a scholar Zhu Yan by a monk, whom he does not identify. The scholar Morten Schlütter notes that the poem's provenance is doubtful given the way it came to Huihong, and furthermore the style differs substantially from works of the era that Huihong attributes it to. Most later historical sources, such as the \"Zengaku daijiten\", the \"Bussho kaisetsu daijiten\", and \"Shinsan zenseki mokuroku\", attribute the poem to Dongshan Liangjie rather than Yunyan, although again, neither is likely.\n\nA number of kōan dialogues feature Yunyan and his fellow student Daowu Yuanzhi. Case 54 of the Book of Equanimity, Case 89 of the Blue Cliff Record, case 105 from Dōgen's Shinji Shōbōgenzō, and the chapter \"Kannon\" from Dōgen's Kana Shōbōgenzō, and all involve the same story in which Yunyan and Daowu discuss the purpose of Avalokiteśvara's many hands and eyes. The precise intention of the story varies with each version.\n"}
{"id": "765362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765362", "title": "Émile Chartier", "text": "Émile Chartier\n\nÉmile-Auguste Chartier (; 3 March 1868 – 2 June 1951), commonly known as Alain (), was a French philosopher, journalist, and pacifist. He adopted his pseudonym in homage to the 15th-century Norman poet Alain Chartier.\n\nAlain was born in 1868. He entered lycée d'Alençon in 1881 and studied there for five years. On 13 June 1956, the lycée was renamed lycée Alain, after its most famous student.\n\nAfter Alain qualified at the École Normale Supérieure and received the agrégation in philosophy, he taught at various institutions: Pontivy, Lorient, \"Lycée Pierre Corneille\" in Rouen, and, in Paris: (Lycée Condorcet and Lycée Michelet). From 1903, he contributed to several journals using his pseudonym, Alain. He was most commonly referred to as \"Alain\" by his pupils and peers.\n\nIn 1909, he was appointed a teacher (or professor) at the Lycée Henri-IV in Paris. He deeply influenced his pupils, who included Raymond Aron, Simone Weil, Georges Canguilhem, and André Maurois. Reviewing the beneficial effect he had on his former pupils Simone Weil and Simone de Beauvoir, Professor John Hellman writes that Alain was the greatest teacher of their generation.\n\nAmong his most important publications are \"The Dreamer\", \"81 chapters about the spirit and passions\", \"About Happiness\", \"Mars\", and \"The citizen against powers\".\n\nHe died in 1951. He is buried in the Père Lachaise Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
