{"id": "13372372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13372372", "title": "A158 road", "text": "A158 road\n\nThe A158 road is a major tourist route that heads from Lincoln in the west to Skegness on the east coast. The road is located entirely in the county of Lincolnshire and is single carriageway for almost its entirety. The road is approximately long. The road gets quite congested with holiday traffic during the summer.\n\nThe road begins outside Lincoln as part of the by-pass at the A46 roundabout with \"Nettleham Road\" (B1182). The road does not enter the borough of Lincoln, and begins in the parish of Nettleham in West Lindsey. Before the Lincoln Bypass was built (in stages) in the mid-1980s, the A158 historically went along \"Wragby Road\" (now the A15). Even earlier the A158 followed the northern end of \"Canwick Road\", the former B1188, over Pelham Bridge since its opening in 1958, and along \"South Park Avenue\" which was also built in 1958, to meet the former A46 at St Catherine's. This was parallel to the former western section B1190. The A15 at the time followed the west of Lincoln town centre, then along \"Silver Street\". \n\nIt heads south-east for before reaching a roundabout where the A15 joins from the centre of Lincoln. From here the route heads north-east through the village of North Greetwell along a former Roman road, where it is the parish boundary between Nettleham to the north and Greetwell to the south, Nettleham and Reepham, then Sudbrooke and Reepham. It passes Sudbrooke to the south, where there is a crossroads, with the main road for Sudbrooke to the left, and Star Energy's Welton Gathering Centre (in Reepham) for the Welton oilfield (part of the East Midlands Oil Province). The Cherry Tree Cafe is at the junction. It passes to the south of Sudbrooke Park (a Scout camp site), and crosses the Lincoln to Grimsby railway in the parish of Barlings, next to the \"Oriental Express Restaurant\" (former \"Station Inn\"). At Langworth there is a crossroads for Scothern, to the left, and Barlings, to the right, and passes St Hugh's church and \"The George at Langworth\". It crosses the Barlings Eau at Langworth Bridge and there is a left turn for Stainton by Langworth, and a right turn for Newball, and the Woodside Wildlife and Falconry Park.\n\nFurther on in the parish of Stainton by Langworth, near Rand Wood, the B1399 heads north-east while the A158 changes direction and heads east to Wragby. In Bullington it passes Bullington Hall and in Rand, it passes Brown Cow Farm, and there is a left turn for Rand and Rand Farm Park. The Rand Group construction company was based there until October 2009 when it went into administration. It is briefly the parish boundary between Rand, to the north, and Goltho, to the south, and passes Goltho Gardens, with a teashop. Approaching Wragby it enters East Lindsey. Here it crosses the B1202 at traffic lights near the \"Turnor Arms\" then forks with the A157 which heads through the Lincolnshire Wolds to Louth. The A157 formerly followed the A158's current route to Lincoln, and the A158's western terminus was at Wragby before the 1940s. It passes the parish church of All Saints, and crosses the former Louth to Bardney Line. From here the route gets quite twisty then heads south-east around the south end of the Wolds. It crosses Stainfield Back at Langton Bridge, and passes through Langton by Wragby, where there is a left turn on a bend for Panton, then a right turn on a bend for Chambers Farm Wood, part of the Lincolnshire Limewoods nature reserve. At Hatton Bridge, it is the parish boundary between Langton by Wragby, to the west and Hatton, to the east.\n\nThere are crossroads for Hatton, to the left, and another crossroads at the (unoccupied) \"New Midge Inn\", where the road becomes the parish boundary with Minting to the south. At Baumber the B1225 joins from the north as the A158 continues towards in a more southerly direction towards the town of Horncastle. The B1190 and B1191 both join just outside Horncastle where the road crosses the A153.\n\nAfter leaving Horncastle the route heads east with the B1195 heading off later to Spilsby. Further on the road passes through the village of Hagworthingham. The road then reaches a roundabout with the A16 at Partney. Both roads used to go through Partney but now bypass it. The construction of this bypass was preceded by a significant archaeological investigation.The A158 continues east until reaching another roundabout with the A1028 which provides a short cut from the A16 further north. The B1196 also heads up to Alford from here. The A158 becomes dual-carriageway for from here until becoming single again through Gunby. The road then joins with the newly opened Burgh Bypass, before finally reaching Skegness where it terminates at a junction with the A52 \n\n"}
{"id": "55418179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55418179", "title": "Albanian Adriatic Sea Coast", "text": "Albanian Adriatic Sea Coast\n\nThe Albanian Adriatic Sea Coast ( — ) stretches along the Southeastern Adriatic Sea that begins from the Gulf of Drin in the north, across the port cities of Shëngjin, Durrës and Vlorë, to the Bay of Vlorë in the south, where the Albanian Riviera and Albanian Ionian Sea Coast begins.\n\nAlbania is geographically positioned in Southeastern Europe within the western portion of the Balkan Peninsula. It borders on Montenegro to the northwest, Kosovo to the northeast, Macedonia to the east, Greece to the south and the Mediterranean Sea to the west. The total length of the coastline is approximately , of which are taken up by white sandy beaches and the remaining by different landforms.\n\nThe Adriatic Sea is the northernmost arm of the Mediterranean Sea extending all the way from the Strait of Otranto in the south up to the Po Valley in the north. The sea is apportioned into two major basins, wherein Albania is entirely located within the deepest and southernmost one. The coastline is one of the wealthiest scenery of the country in terms of biology, holding an outstanding diversity of ecosystems and biodiversity found within a precious mosaic of wetlands, estuaries, capes, sand dunes, marshlands, forests and marine habitats.\n\nAt different times, numerous ancient people, most notably the Illyrians and later the Ancient Greeks and Romans, have established important settlements around the shores. They were considerably influenced by their direct proximity to the sea because it provided routes for trade, colonization and war, as well as food; the Via Egnatia, that crossed through the mountains of Albania, was at that time among the most important routes in the Roman Empire.\n\nThe coastline is populated by more than 1.500.000 million people. The largest cities are Durrës and Vlorë placed in the north and south, respectively. Durrës is served by Port of Durrës, one of the largest on the Adriatic Sea, which connects the city to Italy and other neighbouring countries within the Adriatic.\n\nAlbania is geographically positioned on the Balkan Peninsula in Southeastern Europe bordered by the countries of Montenegro to the northwest, Kosovo to the northeast, the Republic of Macedonia to the east and Greece to the south and southeast. The western edge touches the Adriatic and Ionian Sea, both within the Mediterranean Sea. The majority of the country's territory consists of mountains and hills, making Albania one of the most mountainous countries of Europe. Likely the Albanian Alps runs in the north the Korab Mountains in the east, the Ceraunian Mountains in the south and the Skanderbeg Mountains in the center, while the plains and plateaus are mainly to be found in the west.\n\nThe Albanian Ionian Sea Coast is known for its rugged natural beauty, with rocky highlands and a great marine life, while the Albanian Adriatic Sea Coast consist of sandy beaches and shallow coastal waters hosting a great wildlife. Administratively, the Albanian Adriatic coast is shared between the counties of Shkodër in the north, Lezhë, Durrës, Tirana, Fier and Vlorë in the south.\n\nThe Albanian Adriatic Sea Coast begins from the estuary of Buna whitin the Gulf of Drin at the border with Montenegro, passes through Myzeqe Plain, the capes of Rodon, Turrës, Gjuhëzes, the cities of Shëngjin, Durrës, Vlorë, the estuaries of Drin, Mat, Ishëm, Erzen, Shkumbin, Seman, Vjosë and the lagoons of Karavasta, Narta Kune-Vain-Tale and Patoku, until it reaches the Bay of Vlorë. Numerous rivers flowing into the Adriatic Sea form bays, lagoons and limans. The sand and silt they bring are deposited in the areas of reduced flow, that is the sides of the bays, forming narrow sandbanks.\n\nIn terms of phytogeography, the Albanian Adriatic Sea Coast belongs to the Illyrian province of the Circumboreal Region within the Boreal Kingdom. It falls entirely within the Illyrian deciduous forests terrestrial ecoregion of the Palearctic Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub. The special environmental circumstances and the millennial human activity on the territory of the coast determine the rich variety of species, populations and ecosystems, many of which are with conservation significance. \nThe Albanian Adriatic portion features contrasting vegetation types that are impacted by different factors. The woodlands are mostly dominated by evergreen forests with associated broadleaved sclerophyllous evergreen trees and shrubs primarily found in the southern section of the coastline. The forests ranges from mixed broadleaf forests, at lower elevations, to conifer forests, at higher elevations. The pine forms an important natural feature within the coastline, that is distributed across Velipoja, Shëngjin, Patok and Rodon, which in turn provide habitat for a vast array of wildlife.\n\nStretching in the southeastern Adriatic Sea, the coast with a wealth of important habitats makes for a fascinating birdwatching location during peak migration with several wetlands, estuaries and hills provides diversity for both resident and migrant birds. Maybe the most iconic bird of the coast is the vulnerable and extremely rare dalmatian pelican. It breeds on inland lakes and coastal lagoons of Albania such as in Karavasta and Patoku Lagoon. The greater flamingo is another prominent and important species that live in the region. It is the largest species of flamingo and widespread in Karavasta and Narta Lagoon. \nThe coast is famous for wildlife watching and nesting sea turtles are one of the region's highlights. Its beaches provide nesting sites for several species of endangered sea turtles, namely the hawksbill, leatherback, green sea and loggerhead sea turtle. As well as turtles, the sea life consist of several species of sharks, dolphins and whales. The cuvier's beaked whale and sperm whale are common along the coast. The dolphin species found along the entire coastline are represented by the striped dolphin, risso's dolphin and common bottlenose dolphin.\n\nThe vast and diverse coast is home to an incredibly rich diversity of mammals. Most famous of the carnivores is the rare golden jackal that occurs mostly on the coast of the ravines of the rivers. Another notorious might be the red fox, which occurs throughout the forested and coastal areas in the northern section of the coast. Other mammals include the brown bear, wild boar, chamois and grey wolf. The sea, lagoons and river deltas are extremely rich in salt and fresh water fish. Some aquatic animals, that are abundant, include the european sea sturgeon, starry sturgeon, twait shad and adriatic sturgeon, which is perhaps the most famous species to become extinct in the Adriatic Sea.\n\nThe protected areas of Albania are a biodiversity treasure, containing a wide range of geographical and climatic diversity. Different categories of protected areas have been established alongside the coast. Divjakë-Karavasta National Park, the only national park in the Albanian Adriatic coast, is very picturesque and harbors several endangered species, that makes it a very popular place indeed.\n\nEncompassing the Drin River estuary, the Kunë-Vain-Tale Nature Park is an undisturbed natural area of wet grasslands, swamps and lagoons at the direct proximity to the Adriatic Sea. The Vjosa, which is considered to be Europe's last wild river, discharges, north of Narta, into the Adriatic Sea, where it forms the Vjosa-Narta Protected Landscape. Both, the Karavasta Lagoon and Lake Shkodër, are classified as wetlands of international importance by designation under the Ramsar Convention.\n\nImportant Bird Areas are important sites for bird conservation and their habitats, as they provide suitable conditions to birds. Currently, 16 important bird areas have been identified throughout the territory of Albania, amongst them the Drin Delta near Shkodër, the Vlorë Bay, that is bordered by Karaburun-Sazan Marine Park, and the lagoons of Patoku, Karavasta and Narta, that are among the largest and most important coastal wetlands of the Balkans, due to its varied biodiversity and one of the top sites for wintering and migratory birds in the country.\n\nApart from the considerable variation in landscape, it makes for a wide range of climate types. The Adriatic Sea in the west, Albanian Alps in the north and Ceraunian Mountains in the south have a great influence to the climate of the area. As defined by the Köppen climate classification, the Albanian Adriatic Sea Coast experiences a mediterranean climate with considerable maritime and subtropical influences. This means that the summers are hot, sometimes very hot and dry and the winters generally mild and wet. The coast experiences four distinct seasons. The winter is relatively humid and mild, and the summer lasts very long and is usually hot and dry. Autumn and spring are transitional seasons.\n\nWinds in the Adriatic Sea change their direction and speed during a year period as a result of the distinctive mediterranean climate. This characteristic is mainly determined by a passing trajectory of basic systems across the Mediterranean Sea and Balkan Peninsula as well as\nother important factors such as morphometric characteristics of the territory.\n\nTourism is considered one of the largest industries in the economy of Albania. It has significantly increased since following the fall of communism in the country. The country has a rich historical and cultural heritage and natural beauty varying from clear turquoise waters fringed by sandy and rocky beaches to contrasting mountainous interior. The coastline has a well-preserved natural ecosystem that can boast a unique combination of a diverse climate and landscape.\n\nAs Albania extends over the Adriatic flyway, birdwatching is recently gaining in popularity, due to the interest shown by visitors from other countries. The coastline has a lot to offer fr both visiting and resident bird watchers. The extensive wetlands, with many different Mediterranean and European species, contains many significant birding sites throughout the year. The lagoons in Karavasta, Patoku, Narta and various other protected areas are just a few examples of popular birdwatching destinations.\n\nBeach vacations, particularly for domestic and foreign visitors from different countries, are also central to the local tourism industry. Most beach resorts are located especially along the coastline of Durrës and Vlorë. The southern coastline of Durrës are renowned for its traditional mass tourism, which have experienced an uncontrolled urban development. In contrast, the northern coastline are mostly unspoiled and set to become an elite tourism destination as a number of beach resorts are being built.\n\nThe heritage tourism is focussed on specific interest on the history of Albania, such as the architectural heritage of ancient civilizations such as the Illyrians, Ancient Greeks and Romans in Albania. Besides the churches, mosques, forts and historical buildings, the most popular heritage tourism attractions are the remains of the ancient city of Apollonia, the ancient fortress of Rozafa and the amphitheatre of Durrës.\n\nThe Albanian Adriatic Sea Coast is home to the three largest seaports of the country. The largest cargo ports among them is the Port of Durrës, one of the largest in the Adriatic Sea, with annual passenger volume of approximately 1.5 million. The other seaports include Vlorë and Shëngjin. In addition, the ports serve a wide system of ferries, connecting numerous islands and coastal cities in addition to ferry lines to several cities in Croatia, Greece and Italy.\n\nYachting is pretty recent in the country and less developed than in other countries within the Mediterranean Sea. \"Porto Albania\" will be after its complementation, the first marina destination in Albania for both national and international yachting and charter. It will be located between the city of Durrës and the national park of Divjakë-Karavasta.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "9470391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9470391", "title": "Alberta Township System", "text": "Alberta Township System\n\nThe Alberta Township System (ATS) is a land surveying system used in the Canadian province of Alberta and other parts of western Canada.\n\nIn principle there is a mathematical basis for the Alberta Township System (ATS) variant of the Dominion Land Survey (DLS) system as implemented in Canada. The implementation in western Canada reflects a number of slightly different approaches, as well as a large number of errors.\n\nLong before the Dominion Land Surveyor (DLS) first came into official existence in 1872, licensed surveyors known as Provincial Land Surveyors had been functioning in the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec (then called Canada West and Canada East) under an Act of 1849. Establishing a system of examination for new aspirants to the title of \"Dominion Land Surveyor\" was officially adopted in 1874. In 1910 The Alberta Surveyors Act prescribed the system and the methods whereby land surveys were to be carried out under the general purview of a provincial Director of Surveys whose responsibility it was to see that all survey work was performed in accordance with the provisions of that Act.\n\nThe system is also used by provincial governments when selling exploration rights, and oil and gas wells are referenced by their location as defined within the Alberta Township System.\n\nBelow is a brief description of how to lay out the DLS grid for Alberta.\n\nLay off ticks from the 49th parallel of latitude to the 60th parallel. This gives 127 township lines.\n\nThe 49th parallel of latitude is the first base line of the ATS system. On it lay off ticks westwards starting at the 110th line of longitude (4th DLS meridian). Start over at the 114th and 118th lines of longitude (5th and 6th DLS meridians). Extend these ticks due north (following a line of constant longitude) to the first correction line. This gets you your first set of range lines.\n\nStarting at the 49th parallel (first base line) go directly north. This gets you to the second base line. At the latitude corresponding to this distance from the 49th parallel lay off ticks westwards from 110th meridian as you did at the 1st base line. The circumference of the earth has decreased as you went northwards, so there will be fewer full ticks than there were one base line south. Extend north and south from these ticks. This gets you your next set of range lines. You will note there is an offset between the range lines extending north from the lower base line and those extending south from the current ones. This offset occurs along what is called a correction line.\n\nRepeat the base line process every northwards (to the 32nd).\n\nAll this will result in a mesh of cells nominally six miles (plus 3 or 6 chains for road allowances) on a side. Each such cell is called a township (not to be confused with the township lines laid off earlier). Subdivide the township into 36 sections by laying off ticks of one-sixth of each township side and connecting them by north-south and east-west lines. The sections are numbered sinusoidally starting from the southeast corner of the township.\n\nSections can be similarly subdivided into quarters by placing and connecting ticks at the halfway point on each section side. Use the same process to subdivide sections into legal subdivisions (LSD) except place the tick at the one-quarter waypoints. LSDs are numbered sinusoidally starting at the southeast corner of the section.\n\nWhile the ATS format is still proprietary, online conversion tools have been developed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7695474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7695474", "title": "Australian Honours Order of Wearing", "text": "Australian Honours Order of Wearing\n\nThe Governor General of Australia has, at irregular intervals, notified for general information the positioning of the wearing of Australian Orders, Decorations and Medals in the \"Commonwealth of Australia Gazette\". The Order of Wearing Australian Honours and Awards was last published in 2007, and replaced the previous list published in 2002.\n\nPrior to 2002, the lists were named the \"Australian Order of Precedence of Honours and Awards\". With the cessation in 2013 of the gazettal of lists of recipients of Australia Day and Queen’s Birthday Honours, it is not yet known if future issues of the \"Order of Wearing Australian Honours and Awards\" will be gazetted.\n\nOrder of wearing decorations and awards within the Australian Honours System.\n\nHonours and Awards listed are:\n\nNote that awards of the British Empire/United Kingdom are now considered foreign (if awarded after 5 October 1992), and should be worn accordingly.\n\n\nThe following citations are not positioned according to the list above. For members of the uniformed services, they are worn according to respective Service dress rules. For civilians, they are worn centrally above any other honours or awards:\n\nApproved foreign awards are published by the Governor-General and may be found on the Schedule of Approved Countries and Awards.\n\nThe following are international and foreign honours commonly awarded to Australians for various reasons.\nFor foreign awards commonly awarded to Australians for campaign and peacekeeping service please refer to the list on Australian Campaign Medals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58588", "title": "Axe historique", "text": "Axe historique\n\nThe Axe historique (; ) is a line of monuments, buildings and thoroughfares that extends from the centre of Paris, France, to the west. It is also known as the \"Voie Triomphale\" (\"triumphal way\").\n\nThe Axe Historique began with the creation of the Champs Élysées, designed in the 17th century to create a vista to the west, extending the central axis of the gardens to the royal Palace of the Tuileries. Today the Tuileries Gardens (\"Jardins des Tuileries\") remain, preserving their wide central pathway, though the palace was burned down during the Paris Commune, 1871.\n\nBetween the Tuileries gardens and the Champs Élysées extension a jumble of buildings remained on the site of Place de la Concorde until early in the reign of Louis XV, for whom the square was at first named. Then the garden axis could open through a grand gateway into the new royal square.\n\nTo the east, the Tuileries Palace faced an open square, the Place du Carrousel. There, by order of Napoleon, the Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel was centered on the palace (and so on the same axial line that was developing beyond the palace). Long-standing plans to link the entrance court of the \"Vieux Louvre\", as the disused palace was called, with the court of the Tuileries, by sweeping away the intervening buildings, finally came to fruition in the early 19th century. Consequently, the older axis extending from the courtyard of the Louvre is slightly skewed to the rest of what has become the \"Axe historique,\" but the \"Arc du Carrousel\", at the fulcrum between the two, serves to disguise the discontinuity.\n\nTo the west, the completion of the Arc de Triomphe in 1836 on the Place de l'Étoile at the western end of the Champs Élysées formed the far point of this line of perspective, which now starts at the equestrian statue of Louis XIV placed by I.M. Pei adjacent to his Pyramide du Louvre in the \"Cour Napoléon\" of the Musée du Louvre. \n\nThe axis was extended again westwards along the Avenue de la Grande Armée, past the city boundary of Paris to La Défense. This was originally a large junction, named for a statue commemorating the defence of Paris in the Franco-Prussian War.\n\nIn the 1950s, the area around \"La Défense\" was marked out to become a new business district, and high-rise office buildings were built along the avenue. The axis found itself extended yet again, with ambitious projects for the western extremity of the modern plaza.\n\nIt was not until the 1980s, under president François Mitterrand, that a project was initiated, with a modern 20th century version of the \"Arc de Triomphe\". This is the work of Danish architect Johann Otto von Spreckelsen, \"La Grande Arche de la Fraternité\" (also known as simply \"La Grande Arche\" or \"L'Arche de la Défense\"), a monument to humanity and humanitarian ideals rather than militaristic victories. It was inaugurated in 1989.\n\nThe network of railway lines and road tunnels beneath the elevated plaza of \"La Défense\" prevented the pillars supporting the arch from being exactly in line with the axis: it is slightly out of line, bending the axis should it be extended further to the west. From the roof of the \"Grande Arche\", a second axis can be seen: the Tour Montparnasse stands exactly behind the Eiffel Tower.\nThe \"Seine-Arche\" project is extending the historical axis to the West through the city of Nanterre, but with a slight curve.\n\n"}
{"id": "28914067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28914067", "title": "Balleny Trough", "text": "Balleny Trough\n\nBalleny Trough () is an undersea trough named in association with the Balleny Islands. The name was approved by the Advisory Committee for Undersea Features in February 1972.\n"}
{"id": "16160344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16160344", "title": "Bartolomeu Velho", "text": "Bartolomeu Velho\n\nBartolomeu Velho (died 1568) was a sixteenth-century Portuguese cartographer and cosmographer. \n\nVelho prepared the Carta General do Orbe in 1561 for Sebastian of Portugal. \n\nHe moved to France where he worked on his treatise \"Cosmographia\" which was published in Paris in 1568, the year of his death. \n"}
{"id": "29334467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29334467", "title": "Byrd Canyon", "text": "Byrd Canyon\n\nByrd Canyon () is an undersea canyon named for Admiral Richard E. Byrd. The name was approved by the Advisory Committee for Undersea Features in June 1988.\n"}
{"id": "996315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=996315", "title": "Downhill creep", "text": "Downhill creep\n\nDownhill creep, also known as soil creep or commonly just creep, is the slow downward progression of rock and soil down a low grade slope; it can also refer to slow deformation of such materials as a result of prolonged pressure and stress. Creep may appear to an observer to be continuous, but it really is the sum of numerous minute, discrete movements of slope material caused by the force of gravity. Friction, being the primary force to resist gravity, is produced when one body of material slides past another offering a mechanical resistance between the two which acts to hold objects (or slopes) in place. As slope on a hill increases, the gravitational force that is perpendicular to the slope decreases and results in less friction between the material that could cause the slope to slide.\n\nThe rate of soil creep down a slope depends on the steepness (gradient) of the slope, water absorption and content, type of sediment and material, and lastly vegetation. The rate of creep will take into account all of these factors to decide whether or not the hillside will progress downward. Creep is what is responsible for the rounded shape of hillsides.\n\nWater is a very important factor when discussing soil deformation and movement. For instance, a sandcastle will only stand up when it is made with damp sand. The water offers cohesion to the sand which binds the sand particles together. However, pouring water over the sandcastle destroys it. This is because the presence of too much water fills the pores between the grains with water creating a slip plane between the particles and offering no cohesion causing them to slip and slide away. This holds true for hillsides and creep as well. The presence of water may help the hillside stay put and give it cohesion, but in a very wet environment or during or after a large amount of precipitation the pores between the grains can become saturated with water and cause the ground to slide along the slip plane it creates.\nCreep can also be caused by the expansion of materials such as clay when they are exposed to water. Clay expands when wet, then contracts after drying. The expansion portion pushes downhill, then the contraction results in consolidation at the new offset.\n\nObjects resting on top of the soil are carried by it as it descends down the slope. This can be seen in churchyards, where older headstones are often situated at an angle and several metres away from where they were originally erected.\n\nVegetation plays a role with slope stability and creep. When a hillside contains many trees, ferns, and shrubs their roots create an interlocking network that can strengthen unconsolidated material. They also aid in absorbing the excess water in the soil to help keep the slope stable. However, they do add to the weight of the slope giving gravity that much more of a driving force to act on in pushing the slope downward. In general, though, slopes without vegetation have a greater chance of movement.\n\nDesign engineers sometimes need to guard against downhill creep during their planning to prevent building foundations from being undermined. Pilings are planted sufficiently deep into the surface material to guard against this behavior.\n\nFor shallow to moderate slopes, diffusional sediment flux is modeled linearly as (Culling, 1960; McKean et al., 1993)\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere formula_2 is the diffusion constant, and formula_3 is slope. For steep slopes, diffusional sediment flux is more appropriately modeled as a non-linear function of slope\n\nformula_4\n\nwhere formula_5 is the critical gradient for sliding of dry soil.\n\nOn long timescales, diffusive creep in hillslope soils leads to a characteristic rounding of ridges in the landscape.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "343508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343508", "title": "East Jerusalem", "text": "East Jerusalem\n\nEast Jerusalem or Eastern Jerusalem (; ) is the sector of Jerusalem that was occupied by Jordan in 1948 and was excluded from the Israeli-held West Jerusalem at the end of the 1948–49 Arab–Israeli War. Since the 1967 Arab-Israeli War, East Jerusalem has been, along with the rest of the West Bank, occupied by Israel. \n\nThis area includes Jerusalem's Old City and some of the holiest sites of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, such as the Temple Mount, Western Wall, Al-Aqsa Mosque, Dome of the Rock and the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, as well as a number of adjacent neighbourhoods. Israeli and Palestinian definitions of it differ. The Palestinian official position is based on the 1949 Armistice Agreements, while the Israeli position is based mainly on the current municipality boundaries of Jerusalem. These were determined by a series of administrative enlargements decided by Israeli municipal authorities since the June 1967 Six-Day War. Despite its name, East Jerusalem includes neighborhoods to the north, east and south of the Old City and, in the wider definition of the term, even on all these sides of West Jerusalem. The international community considers Israeli settlements in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, to be illegal under international law. Israel disputes this interpretation.\n\nDuring the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, Jerusalem was contested between Jordan and Israel. At the cessation of hostilities, the two countries secretly negotiated a division of the city, with the eastern sector coming under Jordanian rule. This arrangement was formalized in the Rhodes Agreement in March 1949. \n\nA week after David Ben-Gurion presented his party's assertion that \"Jewish Jerusalem is an organic, inseparable part of the State of Israel\" in December 1949, Jordan annexed East Jerusalem. These decisions were confirmed respectively in the Knesset in January 1950 and the Jordanian Parliament in April 1950.\n\nWhen occupied by Israel after the 1967 Six-Day War, East Jerusalem, with expanded borders, came under direct Israeli rule. East Jerusalem had been occupied by Israel in June 1967. On 27–28 June 1967, East Jerusalem was integrated into Jerusalem by extension of its municipal borders and was placed under the law, jurisdiction, and administration of the State of Israel. In a unanimous General Assembly resolution, the UN declared the measures trying to change the status of the city to be invalid. Jerusalem was effectively annexed by Israel in 1980, an act that was internationally condemned and ruled \"null and void\" by the United Nations Security Council in United Nations Security Council Resolution 478.\n\nIn the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)'s Palestinian Declaration of Independence of 1988, Jerusalem is stated to be the capital of the State of Palestine. In 2000, the Palestinian Authority passed a law proclaiming Jerusalem as such, and in 2002, this law was signed by chairman Yasser Arafat. But Israel does not allow Palestinian government offices to locate in East Jerusalem. The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) recognised East Jerusalem as capital of the State of Palestine on 13 December 2017.\n\n\"East Jerusalem\" is a term that has strong political implications. Arabs use the term \"Arab Jerusalem\" for this area in official English-language documents, emphasizing the predominance of the Arabic-speaking Palestinian population and distinguishing it from the Hebrew-speaking parts of Jerusalem. Israelis call the Arab-populated part of the city \"East Jerusalem\" because of its geographic location in the eastern part of the single larger Jerusalem city unit.\n\nThe term \"East Jerusalem\" is ambiguous and may be used to refer to either of the following:\n\nArchaeological evidence suggests that the first settlement was established near Gihon Spring between 4500 and 3500 BCE. By the 17th century BCE, the Canaanites had built massive walls (4 and 5 ton boulders, 26 feet high) to protect their ancient water system, found inside the City of David on the eastern side of Jerusalem.\n\nFollowing the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, Jerusalem was divided into two parts. The western portion, populated primarily by Jews, came under Israeli rule, while the eastern portion, populated mainly by Muslim and Christian Palestinians, came under Jordanian rule. Arabs living in such western Jerusalem neighbourhoods as Katamon or Malha either fled or were in some cases forced out; the same fate befell Jews in the eastern areas, including the Old City and Silwan. The only eastern area of the city that remained in Israeli hands throughout the 19 years of Jordanian rule was Mount Scopus, where the Hebrew University is located, which formed an enclave during that period.\n\nFollowing the 1967 Six-Day War, the eastern part of Jerusalem came under Israeli rule, along with the entire West Bank. Shortly after the Israeli takeover, East Jerusalem was annexed to West Jerusalem, together with several neighboring West Bank villages. In November 1967, United Nations Security Council Resolution 242 was passed, calling for Israel to withdraw \"from territories occupied in the recent conflict\" in exchange for peace treaties. In 1980, the Knesset passed the Jerusalem Law, which declared that \"Jerusalem, complete and united, is the capital of Israel\", which is commonly called an act of annexation, though no such formal measure was even taken. This declaration was determined to be \"null and void\" by United Nations Security Council Resolution 478.\n\nJerusalem was to be an international city under the 1947 UN Partition Plan. It was not included as a part of either the proposed Jewish or Arab states. During the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, the western part of Jerusalem was captured by Israel, while East Jerusalem (including the Old City) was captured by Jordan. The war came to an end with the signing of the 1949 Armistice Agreements.\n\nUpon its capture, the Jordanians immediately expelled all the Jewish residents of the Jewish Quarter. 58 synagogues were destroyed. The ancient Jewish cemetery on Mount of Olives was desecrated, and the tombstones there were used for construction and paving roads. Jordan also destroyed the Jewish villages of Atarot and Neve Yaakov just north of Jerusalem (their sites became Jerusalem neighborhoods after 1967).\nEast Jerusalem absorbed some of the refugees from West Jerusalem's Arab neighborhoods that came under Israeli rule. Thousands of Arab refugees who were displaced from their homes in Israeli-held West Jerusalem were settled in the previously Jewish areas of East Jerusalem.\n\nIn 1950 East Jerusalem, along with the rest of the West Bank, was annexed by Jordan. Nevertheless, the annexation of the West Bank was recognized only by the United Kingdom, although the Israeli and Jordanian annexations of the two parts of Jerusalem were given only \"de facto\" recognition. During the period of Jordanian rule, East Jerusalem lost much of its importance, as it was no longer a capital, and losing its link to the coast diminished its role as a commercial hub. It even saw a population decrease, with merchants and administrators moving to Amman. On the other hand, it maintained its religious importance, as well as its role as a regional center. Reaffirming a 1953 statement, Jordan in 1960 declared Jerusalem its second capital. The US (and other powers) protested this plan, and stated it could not \"recognize or associate itself in any way with actions which confer upon Jerusalem the attributes of a seat of government...\"\n\nDuring the 1960s, Jerusalem saw economic improvement and its tourism industry developed significantly, and its holy sites attracted growing numbers of pilgrims, but Israelis of all religions were not allowed into East Jerusalem.\n\nDuring the Six-Day War of 1967 Israel captured the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, and eventually incorporated Eastern Jerusalem and its surroundings into the municipality of Jerusalem, including several neighboring villages. This move, amounting to of West Bank territory, excluded many of East Jerusalem's suburbs and divided several villages. The old Moroccan Quarter in front of the Western Wall was bulldozed three days after its capture, leading to the deaths of several residents in the forced resettlement of its 135 families. It was replaced with a large open air plaza. The Jewish Quarter, destroyed in 1948, was depopulated, rebuilt and resettled by Jews.\n\nUnder Israeli rule, members of all religions are largely granted access to their holy sites, with the Muslim Waqf maintaining control of the Temple Mount and the Muslim holy sites there. \n\nWith the stated purpose of preventing infiltration during the Second Intifada, Israel decided to surround Jerusalem's eastern perimeter with a security barrier. The structure has separated East Jerusalem neighborhoods from the West Bank suburbs, all of which are under the jurisdiction of Israel and the IDF. The planned route of the separation barrier has raised much criticism, with the Israeli Supreme Court ruling that certain sections of the barrier (including East Jerusalem sections) must be re-routed.\n\nThe Oslo Accords, prohibit the establishment of any activity of the Palestinian Authority in Jerusalem. Under the pretext that they are part of the PA, Israel closed many Palestinian NGOs since 2001.\n\nIn the 25 January 2006 Palestinian Legislative Elections, 6,300 East Jerusalem Arabs were registered and permitted to vote locally. All other residents had to travel to West Bank polling stations. Hamas won four seats and Fatah two, even though Hamas was barred by Israel from campaigning in the city. Fewer than 6,000 residents were permitted to vote locally in the prior 1996 elections.\n\nIn March 2009, a confidential \"EU Heads of Mission Report on East Jerusalem\" was published, in which the Israeli government was accused of \"actively pursuing the illegal annexation\" of East Jerusalem. The report stated: \"Israeli 'facts on the ground' – including new settlements, construction of the barrier, discriminatory housing policies, house demolitions, restrictive permit regime and continued closure of Palestinian institutions – increase Jewish Israeli presence in East Jerusalem, weaken the Palestinian community in the city, impede Palestinian urban development and separate East Jerusalem from the rest of the West Bank.\" In 2018, \"Al Bawaba\" reported that Israel had approved the construction of 640 new \"Jewish-only\" housing units in the ultra orthodox Ramat Shlom settlement. Some of these units will be built on privately owned Palestinian lands.\n\nA poll conducted by Palestinian Center for Public Opinion and American Pechter Middle East Polls for the Council on Foreign Relations, among East Jerusalem Arab residents in 2011 revealed that 39% of East Jerusalem Arab residents would prefer Israeli citizenship contrary to 31% who opted for Palestinian citizenship. According to the poll, 40% of Palestinian residents would prefer to leave their neighborhoods if they would be placed under Palestinian rule.\n\nEast Jerusalem has been occupied by Israel since 1967 and has been effectively annexed, in an act internationally condemned, by Israel in 1980. On 27–28 June 1967, East Jerusalem was integrated into Jerusalem by extension of its municipal borders and was placed under the law, jurisdiction and administration of the State of Israel. In a unanimous General Assembly resolution, the UN declared the measures trying to change the status of the city invalid.\n\nIn a reply to the resolution, Israel denied these measures constituted annexation, and contended that it merely wanted to deliver services to its inhabitants and protect the Holy Places.\n\nThere are different opinions whether or not it is also annexed in 1967 or in 1980. Some maintain that the application of Israeli laws on East Jerusalem implies annexation. Israel, however, has never formally annexed East Jerusalem, or even claimed sovereignty over it. Although the Israeli Supreme Court recognized that East Jerusalem had become an integral part of the State of Israel, it rejected in 1969 the argument that the imposition by Israel of its laws and administration on East Jerusalem was equivalent to annexation. According to lawyers, annexation of an area would automatically make its inhabitants Israeli citizens. This circumstance, however, did not hold true. They became permanent residents; however, the many refugees who fled during the war were not allowed by Israel to return to their homes. Some lawyers have argued that Israel has sovereignty over East Jerusalem under international law, since Jordan did not have legal sovereignty over the territory, and thus Israel was entitled in an act of self-defense during the Six-Day War to \"fill the vacuum\". This interpretation is a minority position, and international law considers all the West Bank (including East Jerusalem) to be occupied territory and call for Palestinians in the occupied territories (including East Jerusalem) to be given self-determination\n\nThe international community regards East Jerusalem part of the Palestinian territories.\n\nThe first Israeli president Weizmann, in 1948, claimed only Israeli sovereignty over West Jerusalem, not including the Old City. Until the 1967 war, Israel accepted Jordanian rule over East Jerusalem, including the Old City. But after the occupation, Israel extended its claims. In 1988, while rejecting Israeli sovereignty over East Jerusalem, Jordan renounced its territorial claims to the West Bank, including East Jerusalem. The PLO claims Palestinian sovereignty over East Jerusalem, but has shown willingness to negotiate over sharing with Israel sovereignty over the Old City, including Israeli sovereignty over the Western Wall. The PLO's current position is that East Jerusalem, as defined by the pre-1967 municipal boundaries, shall be the capital of Palestine and West Jerusalem the capital of Israel, with each state enjoying full sovereignty over its respective part of the city and with its own municipality. A joint Israeli-Palestinian \"development council\" would be responsible for coordinated development.\n\nBoth the Oslo Accords and the 2003 Road map for peace postponed the negotiations on the status of Jerusalem. Also during the last serious negotiations in 2008 with the Olmert government, Israel refused to talk about the Jerusalem question. Israeli leaders have frequently rejected, in various formulations, any possibility of negotiations questioning the status of East Jerusalem which, it is claimed, to remain part of \"the eternal, united and indivisible capital of Israel\", a vision also expressed in the Jerusalem Law. The 1997 \"Beilin–Eitan Agreement\" between the Likud block and Labor postulated that all of Jerusalem would remain under Israeli sovereignty and the \"Palestinian entity\" would never have its \"governing center\" within Jerusalem.\n\nIsrael's policy has been described as purportedly to obstruct negotiations by creating facts on the ground. Numerous UN resolutions have declared null and void actions by the occupying power that change the status of Jerusalem. Examples of such actions are the imposition of Israeli laws upon East Jerusalem, the integration into the Jerusalem municipality, the barrier in Jerusalem and an active settlement policy designed to cut off East Jerusalem from the rest of the West Bank.<ref name=\"Resolution_66/18\">UNGA, 30 November 2011, \"Resolution adopted by the General Assembly, 66/18. Jerusalem\" (doc.nr. A/RES/66/18 d.d. 26 January 2012) , unispal.un.org; accessed 25 November 2014.</ref>\n\nThe only Israeli-Palestinian agreement ever, arranging equal share of sovereignty over Jerusalem was the unofficial Beilin–Abu Mazen agreement of 1995, which never became reality. The Palestinians would have sovereignty over East Jerusalem, but not without legalization of the major Israeli settlements in and around Jerusalem and a guaranteed two-thirds Israeli majority. The Israeli proposals at the 2000 Camp David Summit, also envisaged inclusion of surrounding Israeli settlements, but not of Palestinian villages. There was not anymore Palestinian sovereignty within the current municipality, but some autonomy instead. The Old City would not become part of the capital of Palestine. As the Palestine Papers revealed, Ehud Olmert's offer in 2008 was quite similar to that of Ehud Barak in 2000, although Israel offered more compensation elsewhere. Again, with almost the same map as in 2000, the largely reduced Palestinian area was embedded in the surrounding settlements annexed by Israel. The Palestinians would have sovereignty over the Arab neighbourhoods, while the question of sovereignty over the Haram al-Sharif was shifted to the future. The Palestinian Authority gave away almost all of the Jewish neighborhoods of East Jerusalem (in exchange for land elsewhere), but not Ma'ale Adumim. The Israelis were still not satisfied. They wanted, inter alia, also Ma'ale Adumim, Har Homa and the major Ariel-block; and control over the Palestinian water resources, the air space and the Jordan Valley, including access routes.\n\nWhile both Israel and Palestine declared \"Jerusalem\" their capital, the Palestinians usually refer to \"East\" Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Palestine. This is consistent with the view of a shared Jerusalem, with West Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and East Jerusalem within the pre-1967 municipal borders as the capital of Palestine.\n\nIn 1980, the Knesset adopted the \"Jerusalem Law\" as a Basic Law, declaring Jerusalem \"complete and united\", \"the capital of Israel\". The law applied to both West and East Jerusalem within, among others, the expanded boundaries as defined in June 1967. While the Jerusalem Law has political and symbolic importance, it added nothing to the legal or administrative circumstance of the city. Already on 23 January 1950, the Knesset had proclaimed Jerusalem capital of Israel; it refrained, however, from explicitly including East Jerusalem, which was governed by Jordan, at the time. In response to the Jerusalem Law, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 478 (the U.S. abstained), declaring the law \"null and void\" and a violation of international law. \n\nThe Israeli-Palestinian Declaration of Principles (Oslo I), signed 13 September 1993, deferred the settlement of the permanent status of Jerusalem to the final stages of negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. The possibility of a Palestinian capital in East Jerusalem was considered by Israel for the first time in the Taba Summit in 2001, although these negotiations ended without an agreement and this possibility has not been considered by Israel since.\n\nTo solve the oxymoron of a Palestinian capital in the \"eternal, united and indivisible capital of Israel\", Israeli peace proposals pushed a mere symbolic capital \"East Jerusalem\" confined to the outskirts of Jerusalem, outside the municipal borders, notably in Abu Dis. In such solution, Israel would keep primary sovereignty, while the Palestinians would get some form of self-rule in Arab neighbourhoods. Indeed, in 1996, the Palestinians began building government offices and even a parliament in Abu Dis, being part of East Jerusalem. Then, Israel cut it off from Jerusalem by building the separation wall. In the end, East Jerusalem will be completely isolated from the West Bank by the wall and a long chain of Jewish settlements.\n\nIn 1990 the United States Senate adopted a resolution \"acknowledging Jerusalem as Israel's capital\" and stating that it \"strongly believes that Jerusalem must remain an undivided city.\" In 1991, however, United States Secretary of State James Baker stated that the United States is \"opposed to the Israeli annexation of East Jerusalem and the extension of Israeli law on it and the extension of Jerusalem’s municipal boundaries\". Historically, the US had viewed East Jerusalem as forming part of the West Bank, a territory under belligerent occupation. Nevertheless, the subsequent Clinton Administration refused to characterise East Jerusalem as being under occupation and viewed it as a territory over which sovereignty was undefined. Vice President Al Gore stated that the US viewed \"united Jerusalem\" as the capital of Israel. In light of this designation, the US has since abstained from Security Council resolutions which use language which construes East Jerusalem as forming part of the West Bank.\n\nIn 1995, Congress passed the Jerusalem Embassy Act which declared that Jerusalem should remain undivided and that it should be recognized as Israel's capital. In 2016, U.S. presidential election candidate Donald Trump vowed to recognize all of Jerusalem as the undivided capital of Israel if he wins the election. In 2017, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel's capital, and, on May 14, 2018, the United States moved its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.\n\nFollowing the 1967 war, Israel conducted a census in East Jerusalem and granted permanent Israeli residency to those Arab Jerusalemites present at the time of the census. Those not present lost the right to reside in Jerusalem. Jerusalem Palestinians are permitted to apply for Israeli citizenship, provided they meet the requirements for naturalization—such as swearing allegiance to Israel and renouncing all other citizenships—which most of them refuse to do. At the end of 2005, 93% of the Arab population of East Jerusalem had permanent residency and 5% had Israeli citizenship.\nBetween 2008 and 2010, approximately 4,500 Palestinians resident in East Jerusalem applied for Israeli citizenship, of which one third were accepted, one third rejected, and one third had the decision postponed.\n\nAs residents, East Jerusalemites without Israeli citizenship have the right to vote in municipal elections and play a role in the administration of the city. Residents pay taxes, and following a 1988 Israeli Supreme Court ruling, East Jerusalem residents are guaranteed the right to social security benefits and state health care. Until 1995, those who lived abroad for more than seven years or obtained residency or citizenship in another country were deemed liable to lose their residency status. In 1995, Israel began revoking permanent residency status from former Arab residents of Jerusalem who could not prove that their \"center of life\" was still in Jerusalem. This policy was rescinded four years later. In March 2000, the Minister of the Interior, Natan Sharansky, stated that the \"quiet deportation\" policy would cease, the prior policy would be restored, and Arab natives to Jerusalem would be able to regain residency if they could prove that they have visited Israel at least once every three years. Since December 1995, permanent residency of more than 3,000 individuals \"expired\", leaving them with neither citizenship nor residency. Despite changes in policy under Sharansky, in 2006 the number of former Arab Jerusalemites to lose their residency status was 1,363, a sixfold increase on the year before.\n\nThe term \"East Jerusalem\" sometimes refers to the area which was incorporated into the municipality of Jerusalem after 1967, covering some , while sometimes it refers to the smaller area of the pre-1967 Jordanian-controlled part of the Jerusalem municipality, covering .\n\n39 percent (372,000) of Jerusalem’s 800,000 residents are Palestinian, but the municipal budget allocates only 10% of its budget to them.\n\nAccording to the Israeli non-governmental organization B'Tselem, since the 1990s, policies that made construction permits harder to obtain for Arab residents have caused a housing shortage that forces many of them to seek housing outside East Jerusalem. East Jerusalem residents that are married to residents of the West Bank and Gaza have had to leave Jerusalem to join their husbands and wives due to the citizenship law. Many have left Jerusalem in search of work abroad, as, in the aftermath of the Second Intifada, East Jerusalem has increasingly been cut off from the West Bank and thereby has lost its main economic hub. Israeli journalist Shahar Ilan argues that this outmigration has led many Palestinians in East Jerusalem to lose their permanent residency status.\n\nAccording to the American Friends Service Committee and Marshall J. Breger, such restrictions on Palestinian planning and development in East Jerusalem are part of Israel's policy of promoting a Jewish majority in the city.\n\nOn 13 May 2007, the Israeli Cabinet began discussion regarding a proposition to expand Israel's presence in East Jerusalem and boost its economy so as to attract Jewish settlers. To facilitate more Jewish settlement in East Jerusalem, the Cabinet is now considering an approximately 5.75 billion NIS plan to reduce taxes in the area, relocate a range of governmental offices, construct new courthouses, and build a new center for Jerusalem studies. Plans to construct 25,000 Jewish homes in East Jerusalem are in the development stages. As Arab residents are hard-pressed to obtain building permits to develop existing infrastructure or housing in East Jerusalem, this proposition has received much criticism.\n\nAccording to Justus Weiner of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, the Jerusalem municipality granted the Arab sector 36,000 building permits, \"more than enough to meet the needs of Arab residents through \"legal\" construction until 2020\". Both Arabs and Jews \"typically wait 4–6 weeks for permit approval, enjoy a similar rate of application approvals, and pay an identical fee ($3,600) for water and sewage hook-ups on the same size living unit\". Weiner writes that while illegal Jewish construction typically involves additions to existing legal structures, illegal Arab construction involves the construction of entire multi-floor buildings with 4 to 25 living units, built with financial assistance from the Palestinian National Authority on land not owned by the builder.\n\nA European Union report of March 2010 has asserted that 93,000 East Jerusalem Palestinians, 33% of the total, are at risk of losing their homes, given Israeli building restrictions imposed on them, with only 13% of the municipal territory allowed for their housing, as opposed to 53% for Jewish settlement. It wrote further that in 2013 98 such buildings were demolished, leaving 298 people homeless, while a further 400 lost their workplace and livelihoods, and that 80% live below the poverty level. 2,000 Palestinian children, and 250 teachers in the sector must pass Israeli checkpoints to get to school each day.\n\nJewish neighbourhoods in East Jerusalem have 30 times the number of playgrounds that Palestinian areas have. One was built for the 40,000 strong community of Sur Baher with foreign funding in 2015 after a Jerusalem court directed the municipal council to begin constructing them. It was constructed without a permit, and the Israeli authorities say the difference is due to the difficulty of finding vacant lots suitable to playgrounds in the Arab sectors.\n\nIn the 1967 census, the Israeli authorities registered 66,000 Palestinian residents (44,000 residing in the area known before the 1967 war as East Jerusalem; and 22,000, in the West Bank area annexed to Jerusalem after the war). Only a few hundred Jews were living in East Jerusalem at that time, since most Jews had been expelled in 1948 during the Jordanian rule.\n\nBy June 1993, a Jewish majority was established in East Jerusalem: 155,000 Jews were officially registered residents, as compared to 150,000 Palestinians.\n\nAt the end of 2008, the population of East Jerusalem was 456,300, comprising 60% of Jerusalem's residents. Of these, 195,500 (43%) were Jews, (comprising 40% of the Jewish population of Jerusalem as a whole), and 260,800 (57%) were Arabs. Of the Arabs, 95% were Muslims, comprising 98% of the Muslim population of Jerusalem, and the remaining 5% were Christians. In 2008, the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics reported the number of Palestinians living in East Jerusalem was 208,000 according to a recently completed census.\n\nAt the end of 2008, East Jerusalem's main Arab neighborhoods included Shuafat (38,800), Beit Hanina (27,900), the Muslim Quarter of the Old City (26,300), At-Tur including As-Sawana (24,400). East Jerusalem's main Jewish neighborhoods include Ramot (42,200), Pisgat Ze'ev (42,100), Gilo (26,900), Neve Yaakov (20,400), Ramat Shlomo (15,100) and East Talpiot (12,200). The Old City (including the already mentioned Muslim Quarter) has an Arab population of 36,681 and a Jewish population of 3,847.\n\nUntil 1998, residents of East Jerusalem were disadvantaged in terms of healthcare service and providers. By 2012, almost every neighborhood in East Jerusalem had health clinics that included advanced medical equipment, specialized ER units, X-ray diagnostic centers and dental clinics. Israel's system of healthcare entitles all Israeli citizens and East Jerusalem residents to receive free healthcare service funded by the Israeli government.\n\nAccording to Haaretz, the quality of healthcare centers between Israeli cities and East Jerusalem are almost equal. The health quality indices in East Jerusalem increased from a grade of 74 in 2009 to 87 in 2012, which is the same quality grade the clinics in West Jerusalem received. According to ACRI, only 11% of the residents of East Jerusalem are treated by the welfare services. In 2006 64% of the Palestinian population lived below the population. By 2015 75%, and 84% of their children, live below the poverty line.\n\nJerusalem was designated the Arab Capital of Culture in 2009. In March 2009, Israel's Internal Security Minister responded with a number of injunctions, banning scheduled cultural events in the framework of this designation in Jerusalem, Nazareth and in other parts of the Palestinian Territories. The Minister instructed Israel Police to \"suppress any attempts by the PA to hold events in Jerusalem and throughout the rest of the country\". The minister issued the ban on the basis that the events would be a violation of a clause in the interim agreement between Israel and the Palestinians that forbids the Palestinian Authority (PA) from organizing events in Israeli territory.\n\nOn 22 June 2013, the Israeli Public Security Minister closed the El-Hakawati Theater for eight days, to prevent a puppet theater festival with an 18-year tradition. Israel Security Agency Shin Bet accused the Palestinian Authority of funding the child-festival, which was denied by the theater director. A month later, members of Israel’s theater world held a protest.\n\nOn 29 June 2013, Israel denied members of the \"Ramallah Orchestra\" from the Al Kamandjâti music school access to East Jerusalem, where they were to give a concert in the French St. Anne's church. Nevertheless, after the musicians had climbed over the Separation Wall, the concert eventually took place.\n\nMay 2013, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development UNCTAD published a report detailing a thorough investigation of the East Jerusalem economy. The report concluded that the Israeli occupation had caused the economy to shrink by half in the last 20 years compared to West Bank and Gaza Strip, which it described as \"a dismal testament to the decline of the East Jerusalem economy and its growing isolation under prolonged occupation\", that resulted in the economic isolation of Palestinian residents. It found a 77% to 25% differential in the number of households living below the poverty line in non-Jewish and Jewish households respectively, with the differential in child poverty being 84% for Palestinian children as opposed to 45% for Jewish children. Major problems were said to be restrictions on movement of goods and people, which Israel says are imposed for security reasons, and Israeli neglect of \"dire socio-economic conditions\". UNCTAD said \"the Israeli government could go much further in meeting its obligations as an occupying power by acting with vigour to improve the economic conditions in East Jerusalem and the well-being of its Palestinian residents\". The Palestinians' governor of Jerusalem said \"some relaxation of the political situation\" was required for the economy to improve.\n\nEast Jerusalem residents are increasingly becoming integrated into Israeli society. Trends among East Jerusalem residents have shown: increasing numbers of applications for an Israeli ID card; more high school students taking the Israeli matriculation exams; greater numbers enrolling in Israeli academic institutions; a decline in the birthrate; more requests for building permits; a rising number of East Jerusalem youth volunteering for national service; a higher level of satisfaction according to polls of residents; increased Israeli health services; and a survey showing that in a final agreement more East Jerusalem Palestinians would prefer to remain under Israeli rule.\n\nAccording to the Israeli Education Ministry, the number of East Jerusalem high school students who took Israeli matriculation exams rose from 5,240 in 2008 to 6,022 in 2011. There are 10 schools in East Jerusalem that specialize in preparing East Jerusalem students for Israeli universities and colleges; one of the biggest schools is the Anta Ma’ana (“You are with us”) Institute on Al-Zahara Street.\n\nEast Jerusalem has a shortage of schools for Palestinian children. In 2012, the classroom shortage was reportedly 1,100, due to what \"Haaretz\" described as \"years of intentional neglect of East Jerusalem schools, which serve the Arab population by the Education Ministry and the city\". A relatively high dropout rate of schoolchildren is found in the Arab sector, even 40% among 12th graders in 2011.\n\nSchools in East Jerusalem include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23665918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23665918", "title": "Ethiopian Mapping Agency", "text": "Ethiopian Mapping Agency\n\nThe Ethiopian Mapping Agency (EMA) is a branch of the Ethiopian government, a department within the Ministry of Finance and Cooperation, that is responsible for cartographic mapping and remote sensing activities in Ethiopia. The EMA has expanded its operation to include a comprehensive map revision program in addition to various phases of digital mapping and information technology.\n\nThe Ethiopian Mapping Agency, originally known as the Ethiopian Mapping and Geography Institute, located in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, is the official organization responsible for mapping, surveying and remote sensing activities in Ethiopia. The organization was established in 1954 under the reign of Emperor Haile Selassie I as a department in the Imperial Ethiopian Ministry of Education. It was initially established to produce graphic materials and geography textbooks for educational purposes. During its early years, the EMA benefited from United States assistance, both in terms of financial assistance from the Point Four Program and a comprehensive base mapping operation of the country undertaken by the United States Army. \n\nThe Institute was transferred to the Ministry of Interior in 1960 and expanded its operations to include some basic cartographic activities and extended research. The organisation had benefited from the United States Point Four Programme of financial aid until it was discontinued in 1962, at which time the country entered into an agreement with the United States for the U.S. Army Map Service, later known as Topographic Command (Topocom), to produce base maps of the country. The topographic surveying was provided by soldiers from the 64th Engineer Battalion, 29th Engineer Company, and the project was known as the Ethiopia-United States Mapping Mission. Using the survey data from the Mapping Mission, The Army Map Service/Topocom completed the photogrammetric map compilation and cartographic map finishing operations. The resulting 1:250,000-scale base maps of the country and 1:50,000-scale maps of special interest areas served as the impetus for the Institute to begin its cartographic map maintenance and distribution program. The organization was placed under a Director General with two Directors and seventy employees, and was reorganized into three subdivisions: Photogrammetry, Cartography and Photo Laboratory. \n\nThe Institute was reorganized again in 1980 and was renamed the Ethiopian Mapping Agency. As of 2017, the EMA employs about 350 people engaged in aerial photography, geodetic surveying, photogrammetric, cartographic and photo lab activities to support and maintain its 1:250,000; 1:50,000; 1:1,000,000; 1:2,000,000; National Atlas of Ethiopia and 1:15,000-scale map of Addis Ababa. In addition, it is involved in remote sensing, orthophoto mapping, information technology, digital mapping and land use/land cover (LULC) studies and maintains a library of geoinformation in support of Ethiopia's infrastructure.\n\nIn February 2018, the Ethiopian Mapping Agency's request to be reestablished as the Ethiopian Geospatial Information Agency was approved by the Ethiopian Parliament. The motivation for this change was to modernize the aims of the organization as well as to differentiate themselves from the Information Network Security Agency (INSA) and the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing.\n\n"}
{"id": "6532813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6532813", "title": "Fog signal station", "text": "Fog signal station\n\nA fog signal station is a station at which a fog signal exists, but at which there is no lighthouse. A light tower might be appended to the station at a later date, as happened at The Cuckolds Light in Maine. A number of these stations were constructed along the California coast, although few survive in their original form today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32087292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32087292", "title": "Garden of the gods (Sumerian paradise)", "text": "Garden of the gods (Sumerian paradise)\n\nThe concept of a Garden of the gods or a divine paradise might be of Sumerian origin, or so it is argued by Samuel Noah Kramer. The concept of this home of the immortals was later handed down to the Babylonians who conquered Sumer.\n\nA Sumerian paradise is usually associated with the Dilmun civilization of Eastern Arabia. Sir Henry Rawlinson first suggested the geographical location of Dilmun was in Bahrain in 1880. This theory was later promoted by Frederich Delitzsch in his book \"Wo lag das Paradies\" in 1881, suggesting that it was at the head of the Persian Gulf. Various other theories have been put forward on this theme. Dilmun is first mentioned in association with Kur (mountain) and this is particularly problematic as Bahrain is very flat, having a highest prominence of only elevation. Also, in the early epic \"Enmerkar and the Lord of Aratta\", the construction of the ziggurats in Uruk and Eridu are described as taking place in a world \"before Dilmun had yet been settled\". In 1987, Theresa Howard-Carter realized that the locations in this area possess no archaeological evidence of a settlement dating 3300-2300 BC. She proposed that Dilmun could have existed in different eras and the one of this era might be a still unidentified tell.\n\nIn tablet nine of the standard version of the Epic of Gilgamesh, Gilgamesh travels to the garden of the gods through the Cedar Forest and the depths of Mashu, a comparable location in Sumerian version is the \"Mountain of cedar-felling\". Little description remains of the \"jewelled garden\" of Gilgamesh because twenty four lines of the myth were damaged and could not be translated at that point in the text.\n\nBohl has highlighted that the word \"Mashu\" in Sumerian means \"twins\". Jensen and Zimmern thought it to be the geographical location between Mount Lebanon and Mount Hermon in the Anti-Lebanon range. Edward Lipinski and Peter Kyle McCarter have suggested that the garden of the gods relates to a mountain sanctuary in the Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon ranges. Other scholars have found a connection between the Cedars of Lebanon and the garden of the gods. The location of garden of the gods is close to the forest, which is described in the line:\n\nTheophilus Pinches suggested in 1908 that Eridu was the Sumerian paradise calling it \"not the earthly city of that name, but a city conceived as lying also \"within the Abyss\", containing a tree of life fed by the Euphrates river. Pinches noted \"it was represented as a place to which access was forbidden, for 'no man entered its midst', as in the case of the garden of Eden after the fall.\" In a myth called the \"Incantation of Eridu\", it is described as having a \"glorious fountain of the abyss\", a \"house of wisdom\", sacred grove and a \"kiskanu\"-tree with the appearance of lapis-lazuli. Fuʼād Safar also found the remains of a canal running through Eridu in archaeological excavations of 1948 to 1949. William Foxwell Albright noted that \"Eridu is employed as a name of the Abzu, just as Kutu (Kutha), the city of Nergal, is a common name of Aralu\" highlighting the problems in translation where several places were called the same name. Alfred Jeremias suggested that Aralu was the same as Ariel in the West Bank and signified both the mountain of the gods and a place of desolation. As with the word Ekur, this has suggested that ideas associated with the netherworld came from a mountainous country outside of Babylonia.\n\nThe myth of Enlil and Ninlil opens with a description of the city of Nippur, its walls, river, canals and well, portrayed as the home of the gods and, according to Kramer \"that seems to be conceived as having existed before the creation of man.\" Andrew R. George suggests \"Nippur was a city inhabited by gods not men, and this would suggest that it had existed from the very beginning.\" He discusses Nippur as the \"first city\" (uru-sag, \"\"City-top (head)\") of Sumer. This conception of Nippur is echoed by Joan Goodnick Westenholz, describing the setting as \"civitas dei\", existing before the \"axis mundi\".\n\nGeorge also noted that a ritual garden was re-created in the \"Grand Garden of Nippur, most probably a sacred garden in the E-kur (or Dur-an-ki) temple complex, is described in a cult-song of Enlil as a \"garden of heavenly joy\". Temples in Mesopotamia were also known to have adorned their ziggurats with a sanctuary and sacred grove of trees, reminiscent of the Hanging gardens of Babylon.\n\nIn the \"Kesh temple hymn\", the first recorded description (c. 2600 BC) of a domain of the gods is described as being the color of a garden: \"The four corners of heaven became green for Enlil like a garden.\" In an earlier translation of this myth by George Aaron Barton in \"Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions\" he considered it to read \"In hursag the garden of the gods was green.\"\n\nAnother Sumerian creation myth, the \"Debate between sheep and grain\" opens with a location \"the hill of heaven and earth\", and describes various agricultural developments in a pastoral setting. This is discussed by Edward Chiera as \"not a poetical name for the earth, but the dwelling place of the gods, situated at the point where the heavens rest upon the earth. It is there that mankind had their first habitat, and there the Babylonian Garden of Eden is to be placed.\" The Sumerian word Edin, means \"steppe\" or \"plain\", so modern scholarship has abandoned the use of the phrase \"Babylonian Garden of Eden\" as it has become clear the \"Garden of Eden\" was a later concept.\n\nThe \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" describes Gilgamesh travelling to a wondrous garden of the gods that is the source of a river, next to a mountain covered in cedars, and references a \"plant of life\". In the myth, paradise is identified as the place where the deified Sumerian hero of the flood, Utnapishtim (Ziusudra), was taken by the gods to live forever. Once in the garden of the gods, Gilgamesh finds all sorts of precious stones, similar to :\n\nThe myth of \"Enki and Ninhursag\" also describes the Sumerian paradise as a garden, which Enki obtains water from Utu to irrigate.\n\nThe \"song of the hoe\" features Enlil creating mankind with a hoe and the Anunnaki spreading outward from the original garden of the gods. It also mentions the Abzu being built in Eridu.\n\nA \"Hymn to Enlil\" praises the leader of the Sumerian pantheon in the following terms:\n\nThe word for Paradise garden in much later Persian literature is \"apiri-Daeza\", meaning \"garden\" or \"walled enclosure\" or \"orchard\". The Arabic word for paradise or garden in the Qur'an is Jannah which literally means \"concealed place\". Two watercourses are supposed to flow underneath the jannah where large trees are described, mountains made of musk, between which rivers flow in valleys of pearl and ruby. Features of this garden of paradise are told in a parable in the . Islamic gardens can further divide the watercourses into four, meeting at a spring and including a sanctuary for shade and rest.\n\nIn myths of the Greater Iranian culture and tradition, Jamshid is described as saving the world by building a magical garden on top of a mountain. This garden also features a tree of life and is the source of a river that brings fertility to the land. Jamshid is warned by Ahura Mazda about a freezing winter approaching and so creates this enclosure to protect the seeds of life when a climatic catastrophe strikes.\n"}
{"id": "50484294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50484294", "title": "Garden waste dumping", "text": "Garden waste dumping\n\nGarden waste, or green waste dumping is the act of discarding or depositing garden waste somewhere it does not belong. \nGarden waste is the accumulated plant matter from gardening activities which involve cutting or removing vegetation, i.e. cutting the lawn, weed removal, hedge trimming or pruning consisting of lawn clippings. leaf matter, wood and soil.\n\nThe composition and volume of garden waste can vary from season to season and location to location. A study in Aarhus, Denmark, found that on average, garden waste generation per person ranged between 122 kg to 155 kg per year.\n\nGarden waste may be used to create compost or mulch, which can be used as a soil conditioner, adding valuable nutrients and building humus. The creation of compost requires a balance between, nitrogen, carbon, moisture and oxygen. Without the ideal balance, plant matter may take a long time to break down, drawing nitrogen from other sources, reducing nitrogen availability to existing vegetation which requires it for growth.\n\nThe risk of dumping garden waste is that it may contain seeds and plant parts that may grow (propagules), as well as increase fire fuel loads, disrupt visual amenity, accrue economic costs associated with the removal of waste as well as costs associated with the mitigation of associated impacts such as weed control, forest fire.\n\nThere are strong links between weed invasion of natural areas and the proximity and density of housing. The size and duration of the community have a direct relation to the density of weed infestation. Of the various means in which migration of exotic species from gardens take place, such as vegetative dispersal of runners, wind born and fallen seed, garden waste dumping can play a significant role. The results of one North German study found that of the problematic population of Fallopia, app. 29% originated from garden waste. Of a population of Heracleum mantegazzianum, 18% was found by Schepker to be generated by garden waste (as cited by Kowarik & von der Lippe, 2008) pg 24-25.\n\nAn Australia government publication suggest that some of the main reasons for the dumping of garden waste can be attributed to lack of care for the environment, convenience, or a reluctance to pay for the correct collection or disposal of the waste. (Environmental Protection Agency [EPA]. 2013). People dump garden waste to avoid disposal fees at landfill sites or because they do not want to spend the time or effort disposing of or recycling their waste properly. This activity is carried out by people in all parts of the community, from householders to businesses, such as professional landscapers and gardeners.\nThe spread of exotic vegetation can out-compete locally endemic vegetation, altering the composition and structure of an ecosystem.\n\nDumping of garden waste in particular facilitates the spread of exotic vegetation into forest remnants via the introduction of seeds and propagules contained within the garden waste. Common selection criteria for home gardeners when choosing plants are often based on ease of propagation, suitability to local environmental conditions and novelty. These specific chosen characteristics increase the chance of plant parts and seeds that are introduced into forested areas becoming a problem.\n\nThe three major causes of animal habitat degradation are; the disruption or loss of ecosystem functions, the loss of food resources and loss of resident species. Non-native invaders can cause extinctions of vulnerable native species through competition, pest and disease transportation and habitat and ecosystem alteration.\nThe dumping of garden waste in nature reserves surrounding and near urban areas increases the risk of fires. The dumped garden waste will eventually dry out creating fuel adding to already fallen debris fuel load on which a fire can thrive and spread on. Garden waste can spread weeds and these weeds build fuel for fires.\nDumped garden waste can facilitate higher rates of erosion by smothering natural vegetation cover.\nWith no root systems for stabilisation the top soil is vulnerable to erosion (Ritter, J. 2015), This can add higher levels of sediments, contributing to the siltation of creeks and waterways.\n\nIf plant matter gets into waterways it can create reduced oxygen levels through the process of decomposition of green waste such as lawn clippings. This directly upsets the quality of water, affecting fish and aquatic wildlife.\nThis dumping of green waste can also lead to the blocking of drainage systems; directly through the build-up of plant debris, and indirectly through the spread of invasive plant species that colonise wet areas, reducing and or changing the flow of waterways. This change in flow, including path and velocity, can alter hydrological cycles, affecting frequency and intensity of floods.\n\nGreen and garden waste has a direct impact to the visual aesthetics of land and can often attract further illegal dumping.\n\nDumping garden waste in nature reserves and parks surrounding and near urban areas can effect directly and indirectly the existing flora and fauna, as well as human life through the increased risk of fires. The dumped garden waste will eventually dry, creating additional fuel, adding to already fallen debris on which a fire can thrive and spread. Garden waste can spread weeds and these weeds also build fuel for fires. Fires may also spread to the suburban areas where humans can also be impacted by losing their homes from fire, incur injury or death from smoke or burns, and suffer economic loses such as income loss and clean-up costs. Fires can lead to an overall loss of habitat and biodiversity.\n\nThe invasion of exotic plant species into remnant native forests is a threat to biodiversity. Some impacts of habitat degradation include; when native animals, insects and birds become vulnerable and put at risk; loss of food source for native wildlife; disruption of native plant-animal relationships ie pollination and seed dispersal and disconnection of plant-host relationships. Highly adaptive plants chosen for their ease of cultivation out compete more specialised species. \nWeed invasion of a forest system can change the processes of plant succession (the system of one species replacing another due to disturbance factors), the composition of the plant community and the composition and availability of nutrients. The change in forest composition can lead to loss of unique plant species.\nWhen a habitat is destroyed, the plants, animals, and other organisms that occupied the habitat have a reduced carrying capacity so that populations decline and extinction becomes a threat. Many endemic organisms have very specific requirements for their survival that can only be found within a certain ecosystem. The term 'hotspot' is used to describe areas featuring exceptional concentrations of endemic species and facing high potential of habitat degradation. The 25 most significant hotspots contain the habitats of 133,149 plant species (44% of all plant species worldwide; table 1) and 9,645 vertebrate species (35% of all vertebrate worldwide; table 2). These endemics are confined to an expanse of 2.1 million square kilometers (1.4% of land surface). Having lost 88% of their primary vegetation, they formerly occupied 17.4 million square kilometers or 11.8% of land surface.\nThe recruitment of alien invasive species may lead to a homogenisation of landscapes. Although increased bio diversity in subregions created by newly introduced species may occur, the displacement of the existing plant species may lead to reduced biodiversity on a global scale.\n\nWhen population-level properties that indicate superior competitive ability of the invading species are examined, 13–24 (42–77%) of the species are included, with the majority of species showing traits capable of modifying natural systems at both ecosystem and community/population scales.\n\nThe dumping of green waste such as lawn clippings can block drainage systems which pollutes water therefore effecting water quality and the health of aquatic plants and animals. Dumped garden waste can add high levels of sediments, reducing the light available for photosynthesis. Dumping also block waterways and roads, cause flooding and facilitate higher rates of erosion by smothering natural vegetation cover.\n\nIllegal dumping is carried out by all types of people in all parts of the community, from householders to businesses and other organizations. Addressing these motivations will enable strategies to be developed that deal with the root causes, rather than the results, of illegal dumping.\n\nSome of the main reasons for this careless disregard for waste can be put down to sheer convenience, lack of care for the environment and also a reluctance to pay for the correct collection or disposal of the waste. The monitoring of illegally dumped garden waste by the community and industries will drive effectual tactics to battle illegal depositing. People dump waste illegally to avoid disposal fees at landfill sites or because they do not want to spend the time or effort disposing of or recycling their waste properly. Alligator weed (\"Alternanthera philoxeroides\" (Mart.) Griseb.) is an introduced weed originating from Sri Lanka and is creating major issues throughout the Australia since its introduction into the country. Alligator weed has the potential to affect aquatic and terrestrial biodiversity severely and to cause considerable social and economic costs, particularly in aquatic situations.\n\nEducation on the value of biodiversity and the negative effects of weed invasion have been identified as key items in changing current trends. Specific education campaigns on the risks of dumping garden waste could be targeted at high-risk societal groups such as residents of housing in close proximity to reserves as well as members of gardening communities and plant sellers. \nRestricting the selection of garden species in new housing developments adjacent to reserves may reduce the effects of illegal dumping, thereby reducing requirement and associated cost of weed management. Creating habitat for wildlife by planting native plants, making a water source available, provide shelter and places to raise young. Healthy ecosystems are necessary for the survival and health of all organisms, and there are a number of ways to reduce negative impact on the environment. Cultivation of native plant species may benefit not only native plant populations but also native animal populations. For example, Sears & Anderson suggest that native bird species diversity in Australia and North America tend to match the volume and diversity of native vegetation. Crisp also explains the percentage of native insect species in a fauna has been found to be consistent with the percentage of native plant species.\n\nComposting is a great way to recycle nutrients back into soils. Mulching the garden with leaves and clippings (BMCC, n.d). \nFostering an appreciation of local natural environmental features and plant species may also help mitigate the issue. as well as the restriction of highly invasive plant species through international policy.\nUtilization of green waste bins that are provided by some councils or shires that are emptied via curbside collection (BMCC. n.d). The addition of facilities for waste disposal could also improve the issue (DECC. 2008).\nMitigation may involve governments holding campaigns that show people disposing legally and reporting the consequences for disposing illegally. A way Australian governments are addressing the problem is through the increase of fines in conjunction with better law enforcement. In Australia, fines can be up to $1,000,000 and can also incur imprisonment. The Protection of the Environment Operations Act imposes penalties for offences including polluting waters with waste, polluting land, illegally dumping waste or using land as an illegal waste facility.\n\nThe new section of the \"POEO Act\" (The Protection of the Environment Operations Act 1997) now imposes further penalties for offences including polluting waters with waste, polluting land, illegally dumping waste or using land as an illegal waste facility (Parrino, Maysaa, Kaoutarani & Salam, 2014). Communities are encouraged to report illegal dumping. In accordance with NSW Illegal Dumping Strategy 2014-16, hefty fines and a maximum jail sentence of 2 years can be handed down to repeat offenders.\n"}
{"id": "36686502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36686502", "title": "Geographical midpoint of Asia", "text": "Geographical midpoint of Asia\n\nThe location of the geographical centre of Asia (; ; ) depends on the definition of the borders of Asia, mainly whether remote islands are included to define the extreme points of Asia, and on the method of calculating the final result. Also on the projection used (radial projection on the plane vs. projection on a geoid), there is no objectively correct way of finding \"the center of Asia\". Thus, several places claim to host this hypothetical centre.\n\nThe first official declaration of the Centre of Asia was made in the 1890s by the British traveller, and calculated to be near the Manor house of Estate of Safyanov in Saldam (modern Tuva, Russia) at . There is a monument commemorating that fact in the estate garden.\n\nGeographical Center of Asian Continent () is the name of a monument indicating the supposed geographical center of the Asian continent. It is located about 20 km south-west of Ürümqi, Xinjiang, People's Republic of China.\n\nThe measurement on which it is based dates to 1992. It was based on calculating the geographical center of 49 Asian countries (including the island states of Cyprus and Japan, and counting Palestine and Sikkim as separate countries), placing the geographical center of these countries at .\n\nBefore the completion of the monument, the site was marked by a wooden pole stating \"Geographic Center of Asia\" (亚洲地理中心). A village that happened to be located at the site where the monument was to be built was relocated, and the new village is now known as the \"Heart of Asia\" (亚心).\n\nThe site has a tower labelled \"Center of Asia\" which represents 48 countries of Asia. The monument was completed in the late 1990s.\n\nObelisk \"Center of Asia\" (; ) is the name of a monument indicating the supposed geographical center of the Asian continent. It is located in Kyzyl, Tyva Republic, Russian Federation.\n\nIt is located in the Tos-Bulak area south of the city, located about 700 km to the north-to-northeast of the Ürümqi monument at . The monument was completed in 1968.\n"}
{"id": "18608688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18608688", "title": "Grass valley", "text": "Grass valley\n\nA grass valley (also vega and valle) is a meadow located within a forested and relatively small drainage basin such as a headwater. Grass valleys are common in North America, where they are created and maintained principally by the work of beavers. Rarely, they are associated with cienegas.\n\nThe words vega and valle are loanwords from Spanish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57379624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57379624", "title": "Groenendijk", "text": "Groenendijk\n\nGroenendijk is a Dutch toponymic surname meaning \"green dike\". There are a number of hamlets, neighborhoods and dikes in the Low Countries from which the name may have originated. People with the name include:\n\n"}
{"id": "15282815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15282815", "title": "High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands", "text": "High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands\n\nThe High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands was an official who ruled the American Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, a United Nations trusteeship in the Pacific Ocean under the administration of the United States, between 1947 and 1994. The territory consisted of islands captured by America during World War II, prior to which they had been part of the Empire of Japan as the South Pacific Mandate. After World War II, the United Nations placed the territory under the United States trusteeship as the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. The islands are now part of Palau, Northern Mariana Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, and Marshall Islands.\n\nThe following is a list of the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, as well as their predecessors during the American occupation of the territory between 1944 and 1947.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3977577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3977577", "title": "Hornstull", "text": "Hornstull\n\nHornstull () is an area in western Södermalm, Stockholm. Hornstull is actually the name of where the streets Hornsgatan and Långholmsgatan intersect. Up to the early 19th century it was also a city toll (\"tull\" means \"toll\").\n\nHornstull also has a metro station, which opened on April 5, 1964.\n\nTwo of the subdivisions of Hornstull are Drakenberg, and Högalid, after which the neighborhood school (Högalidsskolan) and parish church are named.\n\nA weekend market has been held regularly at Hornstull, under the name \"Street\". Many of the merchants at the market sell their own individual fashion designs and creations. Street includes a restaurant, coffee house and a night club.\n"}
{"id": "1078638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1078638", "title": "Ili River", "text": "Ili River\n\nThe Ili River (, Или Дәряси; , ئله; ; ; , Xiao'erjing: اِلِ حْ; , \"literally \"Bareness\"\") is a river situated in northwestern China and southeastern Kazakhstan. It flows from the Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region to the Almaty Province in Kazakhstan.\n\nIt is long, of which is in Kazakhstan. The river originates from the Tekes and Kunges (or Künes) rivers in Eastern Tian Shan. The Ili River drains the basin between the Tian Shan and the Borohoro Mountains. Flowing into Lake Balkhash, the Ili forms a large delta with vast wetland regions of lakes, marshes and vegetation.\n\nEarlier mentions of \"Ili\" river can be traced back to the Mahmud al-Kashgari's dictionary of Turkic languages, the \"Dīwānu l-Luġat al-Turk\" (written in 1072–74). In the book, the author defines it in the following way: \"Ili, the name of a river. Turkic tribes of \"Yaghma\", \"Tokhsi\" and \"Chiglig\" live on its banks. Turkish countries regard the river as their Jayhoun (Amu Darya).\" The name possibly originated from Uyghur word \"Il\", meaning \"hook\", resembling the river's geographical shape.\n\nThe upper Ili Valley is separated from the Dzungarian Basin in the north (by the Borohoro Mountains), and from the Tarim Basin in the south (by the Tian Shan). This region was the stronghold of the Qing administration in Xinjiang in the late 18th and 19th centuries. It was occupied by Russia from 1871 to 1881 (from the Yaqub Beg rebellion until the Treaty of Saint Petersburg (1881)).\n\nPresently, the region forms part of Xinjiang's Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture. The main city of the region, Yining (Kulja), is located on the northern side of the river (about upstream from the international border). Until the early 1900s, the city was commonly known under the same name as the river, 伊犁 (Pinyin: Yīlí; Wade-Giles: Ili). Qapqal Xibe Autonomous County in located on the southern side, which is home to many of the China's Xibe people (who resettled there in the 18th century as part of the Manchu Garrison).\n\nThere are at least two dams on the Ili's tributary: the Kash River (喀什河) in Nilka County, at and\n. At least two dams have been constructed on the Ili's left tributary, the Tekes River, and the Qiapuqihai Hydropower Station (恰甫其海水电站) in Tokkuztara County (). There is also another smaller dam at , on the border of Tokkuztara and Künes Counties.\n\nThe region of Kazakhstan partially drained by the Ili and its tributaries is known in Kazakh as Zhetysu ('Seven Rivers'). In Russian it is known as Semirechye (meaning the same).\n\nThe Kapshagay Hydroelectric Power Plant was constructed between 1965 and 1970 near Kapchagay in the middle reaches of the Ili River. This currently comprises the Kapchagay Reservoir, an artificial long lake north of Almaty.\n\nThe Tamgaly-Tas, a protected site that comprises rock drawings, is located downstream along the Ili River. The name \"Tamgaly\" in Kazakh means \"painted\" or \"marked place\" (\"Tas\" means \"stone\").\n\nThe Ili River flows into the southeastern edge of Lake Balkhash, where it forms a large delta of about . The delta is situated between the Saryesik-Atyrau Desert and the Taukum Desert. An area of 9,766 km (3,771 sq mi) within the delta has been designated as a Ramsar Site. This site has 427 species of plants and 345 species of animals, including important populations of rare species (Dalmatian pelican, goitered gazelle, marbeled polecat, white-headed duck, red-breasted goose, ship sturgeon, and others). The delta has also become popular amongst anglers for its Wels catfish, which can grow up to .\n\nThe Government of Kazakhstan plans to join the three sanctuaries Balkash, Karoy and Kukan (situated in the delta) into one National Park. Until 1948, the delta was a refuge of the extinct Caspian tiger. An introduction of the Siberian tiger to the delta has been proposed on account that it is a genetically close relative of the Caspian tiger. A large population of wild boar, the main prey base of the Caspian tiger, can be still found in the delta. There is also a small population of roe deer. In the drier steppes to the south of the delta live saiga antelopes and goitered gazelles.\n\nReintroduction of the Bactrian deer, another prey of the Caspian tiger, is currently under consideration. Another potential prey species considered to be reintroduced is the Asiatic wild ass.\n\nThe Ili River treaty of 638 AD formalized the division of the Western Turkic Kaganate (552–638 AD) into the Nushibi and the Dulu. It also established the Ili River as the border between the two states. In the 21st century, increasing need for water in both China and Kazakhstan makes the management of the cross-border Ili River a topic of concern for environmentalists and politicians in Kazakhstan (who feel that their country may not get enough water flowing in from China any more).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "401596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401596", "title": "Index of Anguilla-related articles", "text": "Index of Anguilla-related articles\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of topics related to the British Overseas Territory of Anguilla.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16712", "title": "Kattegat", "text": "Kattegat\n\nThe Kattegat (; , ) is a sea area bounded by the Jutlandic peninsula in the west, the Danish straits islands of Denmark to the south and the provinces of Västergötland, Scania, Halland and Bohuslän in Sweden in the east. The Baltic Sea drains into the Kattegat through the Danish Straits. The sea area is a continuation of the Skagerrak and may be seen as a bay of the Baltic Sea or the North Sea or, as in traditional Scandinavian usage, neither of these.\n\nThe Kattegat is a rather shallow sea and can be very difficult and dangerous to navigate, due to the many sandy and stony reefs and tricky currents that often shift. In modern times, artificial seabed channels have been dug, many reefs have been dredged by either sand pumping or stone fishing, and a well-developed light signaling network has been installed, to safeguard the very heavy international traffic of this small sea.\n\nThere are several large cities and major ports in the Kattegat, including Gothenburg, Aarhus, Aalborg, Halmstad and Frederikshavn, mentioned by descending size and importance.\n\nAccording to the definition established in a 1932 convention signed by Denmark, Norway and Sweden (registered in the League of Nations Treaty Series 1933–1934), the northern boundary between the Kattegat and Skagerrak is found at the northernmost point of Skagen on Jutland, while the southern boundary towards Øresund is found at the tip of Kullen Peninsula in Scania.\n\nMajor waterways that drain into the Kattegat are the rivers of Göta älv at Gothenburg, together with the Lagan, Nissan, Ätran and Viskan in the province of Halland on the Swedish side, and the river of Gudenå in Jutland, in Denmark.\n\nThe main islands of the Kattegat are Samsø, Læsø and Anholt; the latter two are, due to their relatively dry climate, situated in what is called \"the Danish desert belt\".\n\nA number of noteworthy coastal areas abut the Kattegat, including the Kullaberg Nature Reserve in Scania, Sweden, which contains a number of rare species and a scenic rocky shore, the town of Mölle, which has a picturesque harbour and views into the Kullaberg, and Skagen at the northern tip of Denmark.\n\nSince the 1950s, a bridge project usually referred to as \"Kattegatbroen\" (The Kattegat Bridge) connecting Jutland and Zealand across the Kattegat has been considered. Since the late 2000s, the project has seen a renewed interest from several influential politicians in Denmark. The bridge is usually envisioned as connecting Hov (a village south of Odder in the Aarhus area) with Samsø and Kalundborg.\n\nThe International Hydrographic Organization defines the limits of the \"Kattegat, Sound and Belts\" (that is, the Kattegat, Øresund, Great Belt, and Little Belt) as follows:\n\nAccording to \"Den Store Danske Encyklopædi\" and \"Nudansk Ordbog\", the name derives from the Dutch words ' (cat) and ' (hole, gate). It derives from late medieval navigation jargon, in which captains of the Hanseatic trading fleets would compare the Danish Straits to a hole so narrow that even a cat would have difficulty squeezing its way through, on account of the many reefs and shallow waters. At one point, the passable waters were a mere wide. The name of the Copenhagen street \"Kattesundet\" has a comparable etymological meaning, namely \"narrow passage\".\n\nAn archaic name for both the Skagerrak and Kattegat was the \"Norwegian Sea\" or \"Jutland Sea\" (Knýtlinga saga mentions the name \"Jótlandshaf\"). Its ancient Latin name was \"\".\n\nControl of the Kattegat, and access to it, have been important throughout the history of international seafaring. Until the completion of the Eider Canal in 1784, the Kattegat was the only sea route into and out of the Baltic region.\n\nBeginning in 1429 in the Middle Ages, the Danish royal family – and later the state of Denmark – prospered greatly from the Sound dues, a toll charged for passage through the Øresund, while Copenhagen provided shelter, trade and repair opportunities and protection from piracy. The dues were eventually lifted in 1857.\n\nIn the Kattegat, the salinity has a pronounced two-layer structure. The upper layer has a salinity between 18‰ and 26‰ and the lower layer – separated by a strong halocline at around – has a salinity between 32‰ and 34‰. The lower layer consists of inflowing seawater from the Skagerrak, with a salinity on level with most other coastal seawaters, while the upper layer consists of inflowing seawater from the Baltic Sea and has a much lower salinity, comparable to brackish water, but still a great deal higher than the rest of the Baltic sea. These two opposing flows transport a net surplus of seawater from the Baltic to the Skagerrak every year. During stronger winds, the layers in the Kattegat are completely mixed in some places, such as the Great Belt, so the overall salinity is very variable in this small sea. This sets some unique conditions for the sealife here.\n\nCold seeps, locally known as bubbling reefs (), are found in the northern Kattegat. Unlike cold seeps in most other places (including the North Sea and Skagerrak), the Kattegat bubbling reefs are at relatively shallow depths, generally between below the surface. The seeps rely on methane deposited during the Eemian period and during calm weather the bubbles can sometimes be seen on the water surface. Carbonate cementation and lithification form slaps or pillars up to tall, and support a rich biodiversity. Because of their unique status, the Kattegat bubbling reefs receive a level of protection and are recognized as a Natura 2000 habitat (type 1180) by the European Union (EU).\n\nThe Kattegat was one of the first marine dead zones to be noted in the 1970s, when scientists began studying how intensive industrial activities affected the natural world. In recent years, studies and research has provided much insight into processes like eutrophication, and how to deal with it. Denmark and the EU have initiated costly and far-reaching domestic projects in order to stop, repair and prevent these environmentally destructive and economically damaging processes, since the first Action Plan for the Aquatic Environment in 1985, and are now busy implementing the fourth Action Plan. The action plans sums up a broad range of initiatives and includes the so-called Nitrate Directives. The action plans have generally been viewed as a success, although the work is not finished and all goals are not completely met yet.\n\nDue to the very heavy sea traffic and many large coastal settlements, the Kattegat has been designated as a Sulphur Emission Control Area as part of the Baltic Sea since 2006. The benchmark for sulphur in fuels was recently lowered to 0.1%, to be effectuated from 1 January 2015.\n\nSeveral larger areas of the Kattegat are designated as Natura 2000 and under various bird protections such as the Ramsar Convention. The remaining larger shallow reefs, are among the protections, as they are important spawning and feeding grounds for fish and marine mammals and they support a thriving but threatened biodiversity. Protected areas includes:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49408030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49408030", "title": "Kompass Karten", "text": "Kompass Karten\n\nKompass Karten is an Austrian map publisher based in Innsbruck, which specialises in hiking maps, and guides, digital maps, and cycling maps and guides. Its range has over 1,000 titles.\n\nThe publishers was founded in December 1953 by Heinz Fleischmann under the name \"Fleischmann KG - KOMPASS Karten\" in Bavaria. In 1968 \"Mairs Geografischer Verlag\" became a shareholder in the firm that now took the name \"Fleischmann & Mair\". In 1996 the publishers became a subsidiary of the publishing group of MairDumont and its name was changed to \"Kompass Karten\" GmbH. Since 2002 the Tyrolean hiking map publishers, \"Walter Mayr\" has been part of KOMPASS Karten.\n\nIn 2011 the firm had a turnover of around 12 M euros.\n\nKOMPASS has about 1,000 titles in its programme, including 700 hiking, cycling and ski touring maps.\nJust under 500 hiking maps have been published covering the hiking areas of Austria, South Tyrol, Germany, the Balearic and Canary Islands. Hiking regions in the rest of Italy, the Swiss Alps, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have some coverage. The maps are mainly published at a scale of 1:25,000 or 1:50,000, with trails, footpaths and additional tourist information highlighted. The new generation of hiking maps is printed with c coordinate grid for GPS navigation. Since mid-2011 weatherproof and rip-resistant maps have been printed, gradually replacing the existing maps.\n\nKOMPASS-Verlag has just under fifty digital maps in its range, covering the whole of Austria, several walking areas in Germany, South Tyrol, the Canaries, the Balearics, Malta and Elba. The digital maps are usable on PDAs and mobile phones using Java technology for outdoor navigation. The map material is at a scale of 1:50,000 zoomable to 1:10,000.\n\nSince 2009 there has been a cycling map series at a scale of 1:70,000. In 2011 a cycling guide series appeared. Both are printed on rip-resistant and weatherproof paper.\n\nThe company also publishes hiking atlases, nature guides, panoramas, cookery books and ski tour guides.\n\nOccasionally criticism is expressed about Kompass hiking maps. This includes excessive highlighting of tourist symbols, sometimes missing latitude and longitude lines and, outside the German speaking countries, often a crude inaccuracy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "658766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=658766", "title": "La Condamine", "text": "La Condamine\n\nLa Condamine is the central Ward in the Principality of Monaco. Its landmarks include Port Hercules, the Rainier III Nautical Stadium, and the Princess Antoinette Park.\n\n\"Condamine\" dates from the Middle Ages, and means cultivable land.\n"}
{"id": "12855924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12855924", "title": "List of ambassadors of the United States to Guyana", "text": "List of ambassadors of the United States to Guyana\n\nThe following is a list of ambassadors of the United States to Guyana. The current title given by the United States State Department to this position is Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26681364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26681364", "title": "List of articles about Australia and New Zealand jointly", "text": "List of articles about Australia and New Zealand jointly\n\nThe following articles refer or relate to the subject matter of Australia – New Zealand as a conjoint or unified entity, or otherwise refer or relate to aspects of Australia – New Zealand relations, comparisons between Australia and New Zealand, the culture of Australia – New Zealand, Australia – New Zealand business and other entities, governance and standardisation in Australia-New Zealand, Australia – New Zealand lists and comparisons, the economy of Australia – New Zealand, Australia – New Zealand-focused publications, and individuals with notable affinity to and/or significance for Australia and New Zealand concurrently:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "199464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199464", "title": "List of astronauts by name", "text": "List of astronauts by name\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of astronauts, people selected to train for a human spaceflight program to command, pilot, or serve as a crew member of a spacecraft.\n\nFor a list of everyone who has flown in space, see List of space travelers by name.\n\nMore than 560 people have been trained as astronauts. Until recently, astronauts were sponsored and trained exclusively by governments, either by the military or by civilian space agencies. However, with the advent of suborbital flight starting with privately funded SpaceShipOne in 2004, a new category of astronaut was created: the commercial astronaut.\n\nWhile the term astronaut is sometimes applied to anyone who trains for travels into space—including scientists, politicians, journalists, and tourists—this article lists only professional astronauts, those who have been selected to train professionally. This includes national space programs, industry and commercial space programs which train and/or hire their own professional astronauts.\n\nNames in \"italic\" are astronauts who have left Low Earth orbit, names in bold are astronauts who have . The flags indicate the astronaut's primary citizenship during his or her time as an astronaut. The symbol identifies female astronauts. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23535309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23535309", "title": "List of colonial and departmental heads of French Polynesia", "text": "List of colonial and departmental heads of French Polynesia\n\n \n"}
{"id": "880035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880035", "title": "List of extreme points of New Zealand", "text": "List of extreme points of New Zealand\n\nThis article discusses the extreme points of New Zealand: the points that lie farther north, south, east or west than any other equivalent location in the country.\n\nThe northernmost point of the North Island is often thought to be Cape Reinga, but this is instead the northwesternmost point. Similarly, Bluff is often considered to be the southernmost point of the South Island, although The Bluff itself (the promontory which gives the town its name) is actually fractionally further north than Slope Point. The phrase \"From Cape Reinga to The Bluff\" is, however, frequently used within New Zealand to refer to the extent of the whole country, ignoring both Slope Point and the many offshore islands.\n\n\nDistance from North to South (Nugent Island to Jacquemart Island) is .\n\nDistance around the four points is .\n\n\n\nThe tiny settlement of Kapowairua, at the eastern end of Spirits Bay, although there is a permanently manned station on Raoul Island much further north. The northernmost settlement of significant size is Te Kao, while Taipa-Mangonui is the northernmost urban area with at least 1000 people. New Zealand's northernmost city is Whangarei.\n\nThe northernmost settlement in the South Island is Puponga, close to the foot of Farewell Spit. Takaka is the northernmost South Island urban area with at least 1000 people, and Nelson is the northernmost South Island city.\n\nThe southernmost settlement in New Zealand is Oban, on Stewart Island, although there is a meteorological station on Campbell Island, though this is no longer permanently manned since 1995. The southernmost town in New Zealand with a population over 1000 is Bluff. New Zealand's southernmost city is Invercargill - also its westernmost city. While New Zealand has a permanently manned base at Scott Base in Ross Dependency, this area is not considered part of New Zealand.\n\nThe southernmost settlement in the North Island is Ngawi, near Cape Palliser. Wellington is the southernmost North Island urban area with population over 1000 and the North Island's southernmost city.\n\nThe settlement of Waitangi on Chatham Island is New Zealand's easternmost settlement. In New Zealand's main chain, the easternmost settlement of any note is Tikitiki. The town of Ruatoria is New Zealand's easternmost town. New Zealand's easternmost city, and urban area with a population over 1000, is Gisborne.\n\nIn the South Island, Ward is the easternmost settlement of significance, Picton is the easternmost town with a population over 1000, and Blenheim is the easternmost city.\n\nSmall settlements at the head of Doubtful Sound and at Manapouri Hydro are the westernmost settlements in New Zealand. The westernmost settlement of significance is Manapouri, and the westernmost town with a population over 1000 is Te Anau. New Zealand's westernmost city is Invercargill, which is also its southernmost city.\n\nIn the North Island, Te Kao is the westernmost as well as the northernmost settlement of significance, Kaitaia is the westernmost town with a population over 1000, and New Plymouth is the westernmost city.\n\nThe closest point to mainland Australia and Tasmania is near the Resolution Island lighthouse at 45°44'S, 166°27'E (Fiordland), a distance of approximately from a point near Tasman Island lighthouse 43°12'S, 148°E (Tasmania).\n\nThe shortest distance from New Zealand territory to Australian territory is from Auckland Island to Macquarie Island - a distance of approximately .\n\n"}
{"id": "50398804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50398804", "title": "List of extreme summits of the Rocky Mountains", "text": "List of extreme summits of the Rocky Mountains\n\nThis article comprises four sortable tables of mountain summits of the Rocky Mountains of North America that are the higher than any other point north or south of their latitude or east or west their longitude in those mountains.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30890828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30890828", "title": "List of football clubs in Guadeloupe", "text": "List of football clubs in Guadeloupe\n\n"}
{"id": "56153537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56153537", "title": "List of mountains in Hungary", "text": "List of mountains in Hungary\n\nThis page contains more sortable tables of major mountain peaks of Hungary.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured or sorted in several ways.\n"}
{"id": "33901523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33901523", "title": "List of sights in Berlin", "text": "List of sights in Berlin\n\nBerlin grew out of the historical city centre, the Nikolai quarter and its adjacent town of Cölln, both situated along the River Spree. It expanded its territories with areas such as Dorotheenstadt and Friedrichstadt. The creation of Greater Berlin in 1920 incorporated many former independent towns and municipalities such as Spandau, Charlottenburg and Köpenick.\n\nToday, the urban environment of the metropolis also spreads to parts of Brandenburg and Potsdam. The decentralised development has resulted in a plethora of sights in Berlin – not just in the centre of the city, but also in the outlying boroughs. For various reasons among the worlds most recognized symbols of Berlin are the Brandenburg Gate and its tallest landmark, the Berlin TV tower in Mitte.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4337339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4337339", "title": "List of sovereign states and dependent territories in South America", "text": "List of sovereign states and dependent territories in South America\n\nThis is a list of sovereign states and dependent territories in South America. It includes both fully recognized states and dependent territories of both South American and non-South American states. It lists 12 sovereign states and 3 non-sovereign territories.\n\nSouth America is bordered on the west by the Pacific Ocean and on the north and east by the Atlantic Ocean. North America and the Caribbean Sea lie to the northwest. South America has an area of approximately 17,840,000 square kilometres (6,890,000 sq mi), or almost 3.5% of the Earth's surface. As of 2008, its population is more than 380 million, according to estimates of population in \"The World Factbook\". South America ranks fourth among all continents in area (after Asia, Africa, and North America) and fifth in population (after Asia, Africa, Europe, and North America).\n\nThe division between North and South America is unclear, lying somewhere in the Isthmus of Panama. However, Panama is not considered transcontinental, and is generally considered to be wholly a part of North America.\n\nA sovereign state is a political association with effective sovereignty over a population for whom it makes decisions in the national interest. According to the Montevideo convention, a state must have a permanent population, a defined territory, a government, and the capacity to enter into relations with other states. The following states are all members of the United Nations and members of the Union of South American Nations.\n"}
{"id": "24351630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24351630", "title": "List of the busiest airports in the Baltic states", "text": "List of the busiest airports in the Baltic states\n\nThis is a list of the busiest airports in the Baltic states in terms of total number of Passengers, Aircraft movements and Freight and Mail Tonnes per year. The statistics includes all airports in the Baltic States with commercial regular traffic for 2012. Aircraft movements and Freight and Mail Tonnes only include statics for the 5 busiest airports in 2012 since reliable data is not available for all airports. Included are also a list of the Busiest Air Routes to/from and between the Baltic States for 2011, data for 2012 will be added as soon as the data becomes available.\n\nThe term Baltic states (also Baltics, Baltic nations or Baltic countries) refers to the Baltic provinces which gained independence in 1918 from the German Empire during the World War I: primarily the contiguous trio of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania (from north to south).\n\nBusiest nonstop air routes within and to/from the Baltic States based on total annually carried passengers on each route.\n\nThe routes ranked no 1, 2, 5, 10, 11, 12, 14, 17 and 22 includes the following airports:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23570564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23570564", "title": "List of winners of the Amsterdam Marathon", "text": "List of winners of the Amsterdam Marathon\n\nThis page lists the winners of the Amsterdam Marathon, which was first held during the 1928 Summer Olympics (men's competition only) and annually from 1975 onwards, with the exception of 1978.\n\nThe current course records of 2:05:41 (men) and 2:21:09 (women) were set in the 2012 edition by Wilson Chebet and Meseret Hailu respectively.\n\nFerenc Szekeres, Cor Vriend, Sammy Korir, Plonie Scheringa, and Marja Wokke won the Amsterdam Marathon each two times, and Gerard Nijboer won the marathon four times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58150240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58150240", "title": "Mahakal Temple (Darjeeling)", "text": "Mahakal Temple (Darjeeling)\n\nThe Mahakal Temple or Mahakal Mandir (. Translation: The master of \"Kaal [time]\") is a sacred Hindu temple located in Darjeeling in the state of West Bengal, India dedicated to the Hindu god Lord Shiva, the third god in the Hindu triumvirate. The Temple was built in 1782 by Lama Dorjey Rinzing and is perched atop the Observatory Hill in Darjeeling and is an amalgamation of Hindu and Buddhist religions. It is a unique religious site where both religions coexist harmoniously.\n\nMahakal Temple stands as a historical edifice on the spot where a Buddhist Monastery named 'Dorje-Ling' once stood which was built by Lama Dorjey Rinzing in 1765. Legend has it that three Shiva-Lingas representing Brahma, Vishnu and Maheshwar (Lord Shiva) manifested themselves at the site in 1782. The monastery itself was plundered and destroyed in 1815 during the Gorkha invasion after which it was shifted to Bhutia Busty about a mile away and was called the Bhutia Busty Monastery. The Temple is a much revered and visited religious shrine of the area.\n\nLegend has it that the name Darjeeling was derived from the name of the monastery 'Dorje-Ling' itself.\n\nThe main Mahakal temple is devoted to Lord Shiva and it witness devotees from all sections of society and religions most visiting the temple for both leisure or pilgrimage. Bells and hundreds of colorful prayer flags line the up-hill walk and the shrine. \n\nThe three gold plated Lingams inside the main temple represent Hindu Gods Brahma, Bishnu and Maheswar. There are idols of Lord Buddha alongside the Lingams where both a Hindu priest and a Buddhist monk perform religious rituals and offer prayers simultaneously. \n\nWithin the temple complex is a white 'chorten' (Tibetan memorial shrine) where lies the relics of Dorjey Rinzing Lama the original builder of the site. Dotted around are many other smaller shrines and temples dedicated to Goddess Kali, Goddess Durga, Saat Kanya Bhagavati Devi, Lord Ganesha, Lord Krishna, Lord Rama, Shirdi Sai Baba, Hanuman, Goddess Parvati, Radha and other Gods and Goddesses.\n\nLocation\n\nMahakal Temple is located behind the Chowrasta and encircled by the Mall Road on the ridge of Darjeeling town. The approach is a uphill narrow road about 100 yards from the Mall and is accessible by foot only.\nThe Observatory Hill itself is rich in flora and fauna unique to the Himalayan range of mountains and the full range of third highest peak in the world mount Kanchenjunga can be witnessed from atop the temple complex.\n\nChowrasta Darjeeling\n\nObservatory Hill, Darjeeling\n\nBhutia Busty Monastery\n"}
{"id": "6252791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6252791", "title": "Marconi Plaza, Philadelphia", "text": "Marconi Plaza, Philadelphia\n\nMarconi Plaza is an urban park square located in South Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The Plaza was named to recognize the 20th Century cultural identity in Philadelphia of the surrounding Italian-American enclave neighborhood and became the designation location of the annual Columbus Day Parade.\n\nMarconi Plaza has two main halves, East and West, which are divided in the middle by Broad Street. It is located at the most southern end of the city and within the northern border of the Sports Complex Special Services District. The park plaza is accessible via the Oregon Avenue Station of the Broad Street Subway. \nBoundaries of Marconi Plaza Neighborhood:\nThe urban park plaza itself, from which the neighborhood derives its name(Marconi East and \"Marco\" Marconi West), is a rectangular park. The Roman styled plaza is divided in the center by Broad Street and is bordered by 13th Street, 15th Street, Bigler Street, and Oregon Avenue.\n\nThe plaza design is credited to the strong influence of renowned architect Paul Philippe Cret in 1904 as part of his participation in the Art Jury reviewing the preliminary plans presented by landscape architects the Olmsted Brothers, who were then charged with a modified design to complete the work. \n. The Plaza later served as the grand pre-entrance for the 1926 Sesquicentennial Exposition, leading visitors south along a tree lined Southern Boulevard Parkway (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) ( landscaped segment of South Broad Street) to the exhibition grounds that started at Packer Avenue and continued to League Island Park. This neighborhood twin park is mirrored on both sides of Broad Street and became property of the Fairmount Park system. It held the common name of Oregon Plaza until October 18, 1937 when it was officially named Marconi Plaza in honor of the Nobel Prize Laureate Guglielmo Marconi, the inventor of Radio.\n\nThe F. Amadee Bregy School was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1988.\n\nThe original design of the Plaza was a two level terrace with pathways, marble trims, urns, influenced by landscaped architecture modeling after Roman gardens and English gardens. The east and west plaza reflected the same winding pathways leading to a raised stepped terrace surrounded by stone railings and entrance sculptures of large urns with two small \"reflecting\" pools of water facing Broad Street at the center point, which at that time was cut away from the curbline forming half circles open to traffic on both the east and west. This accent was used in 1926 to position a large Liberty Bell at the center of the street permitting traffic to circle around.\n\nOver the years many of the fine details have been erased including the half circled indented curbline on either side of Broad Street at the center. This location also had on both sides of the plaza, two reflecting pools of water. The pools were filled in to provide the foundation for the two statues that were later erected to support the cultural history of the immigrant Italian community and respond to Anti-Italianism.\n\nThe park is currently lushly covered with 25% trees adorned with park benches, open areas for two tot lots, a baseball field, basketball court, and country cottage style enclosed bocce court. The sidewalk border surrounding the park is densely lined with large maple trees with heights of 30–50 feet high.\n\nA bronze statue of Guglielmo Marconi, sculpted by Saleppichi Giancarlo was erected on the east Plaza in 1975 though the efforts of the Marconi Memorial Association headed by Dr. Frank P. DiDio. The statue was dedicated on April 25, 1980, to commemorate the 106th anniversary of the birthday of the world-famous Italian scientist and inventor.\n\nA statue of Christopher Columbus was erected on the west plaza in 1982. This work was originally located along Belmont Avenue in Fairmount Park, having been erected on October 12, 1876 for Philadelphia's Centennial Exposition. Thought to be the work of Emanuele Caroni, this is said to be first publicly funded monument to Christopher Columbus in the United States. It was purchased for $18,000 with money raised by Italian-Americans and the Columbus Monument Association, through the efforts of Alonzo Viti of Philadelphia and his brothers. The statue's initial installation began an annual tradition for the colony of mostly Italian Americans in South Philadelphia to march each year on Columbus Day to the statue in Fairmount Park. The journey was found to be too exhausting and in 1920 the celebration changed locations.\n\nMollbore Terraces of Marconi: The 1930s Mollbore Terrace was a unique urban change from the densely lined row houses that characterized most of South Philadelphia. The design included front porches and a rear yard with an access service roadway for trash pick-up. Three separate Mollbore Terrace sections were constructed east of the plaza within the boundaries of 13th Street to 7th Street, and from Oregon Ave to Johnston Street. The layout departed from the standard street grid, offsetting the numbered streets that permitted placing a \"mini-public-square\" of green space for houses to face inward on all four sides and directions. The center large rectangular common parks space was originally designated as a \"Terrace\" that included pathways, grass and trees with an octagon-shaped wading pool at the west end and a raised octagon sand pit platform with a flag pole at the east end.\n\nRoman Terraces of Marconi: The Greco-Roman–accented homes west of the plaza from 15th to 19th street, using the same concept but on a smaller scale, include two oval-shaped terrace streets at Smedley and Colorado. The terrace at Colorado Street became well known citywide for its annual decorations and street lighting during the Christmas holidays from 1950 to 2000.\n\nMoyamensing Avenue Parkway of Marconi: This main angular dual street with an approximately 50-foot center median landscaped area and tree-lined street, crosses the standard street grid and was designed as an alternative roadway access to the 1926 Sesquicentennial Exposition. It begins at Oregon Avenue, that once was a headhouse entrance for the 1926 Expo, through to the intersection of 20th Street, Penrose Avenue and Packer Avenue. An architectural design for a grand public square like the squares of Center City Philadelphia (inspired by the Benjamin Franklin Parkway) was planned at the parkway's end point of Penrose Avenue, which was viewed by city planners to be the significant southern gateway to the City. The 1926 square was never developed.\n\nIn 2002 the City of Philadelphia legislated boundaries of the Sports Complex Special Service District. The residential communities defined included Marconi Plaza. The Special District established an overlay providing the basis for a new definition to Marconi East as community \"three\" and Marconi West as community \"four\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3571705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3571705", "title": "Meshchera Lowlands", "text": "Meshchera Lowlands\n\nMeshchera Lowlands (Meshchyora Lowlands) (), also referred to as simply Meshchera/Meshchyora, is a spacious lowland in the middle of the European Russia. It is named after the Finno-Ugric Meshchera tribe, which used to live there (later mixing with neighbouring Slavic tribes). It occupies parts of Moscow Oblast, Vladimir Oblast and Ryazan Oblast; respectively, it is called the Moscow, Vladimir and Ryazan Meshcheras.\n\nMeshchera is a plain of roughly triangular shape bounded by rivers Oka from the South, Moskva River from the Southwest, Klyazma from the North and Sudogda and Kolp/Kolpna (Колпь, Колпна) from the East. Elevation: 80–130 metres.\n\nClimate of Meshchera is humid continental with long, cold and snowy winters, and short, warm and rainy summers. Annual average temperature is . The coldest month is February with average temperature of . During severe winters, temperatures can go as low as . Summers are warm, sometimes hot, with average July temperature of , and in extremely hot summers temperature can rise up to .\n\nIt is covered by mixed forests, pine forests in sandy areas, with many wetlands and lakes.\n"}
{"id": "29065860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29065860", "title": "Municipal annexation", "text": "Municipal annexation\n\nMunicipal annexation is the legal process by which a city or other municipality acquires land as its jurisdictional territory (as opposed to simply owning the land the way individuals do). \n\nWithin areas that are subdivided noncontiguously, annexation can take place whereby a lower-tier subdivision can annex territory under the jurisdiction of a higher-tier subdivision. For example, in the United States, incorporated cities and towns often expand their boundaries by annexing unincorporated land adjacent to them. Municipalities can also annex and be annexed by other municipalities, though this is less common in the United States. Laws governing the ability and the extent cities can expand in this fashion are defined by the individual states' constitutions.\n\nAnnexation of neighbouring communities occurs in Canada. The city of Calgary, for example, has in the past annexed the communities of Bridgeland, Riverside, Sunnyside, Hillhurst, Hunter, Hubalta, Ogden, Forest Lawn, Midnapore, Shepard, Montgomery, and Bowness.\n\n"}
{"id": "3710413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3710413", "title": "NUTS statistical regions of Spain", "text": "NUTS statistical regions of Spain\n\nIn the NUTS (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics) codes of Spain (ES), the three levels are:\n\nIn the 2003 version, the two provinces of the Canary Islands were coded as follows:\nBelow the NUTS levels, the two LAU (Local Administrative Units) levels are:\n\n\"The LAU codes of Spain can be downloaded here:\" \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6036736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6036736", "title": "Northern Islands Municipality", "text": "Northern Islands Municipality\n\nNorthern Islands Municipality is one of the four main political divisions of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. It consists of a long string of the northernmost islands of the Northern Marianas, including (from north to south) Farallon de Pajaros, the Maug Islands, Asuncion, Agrihan, Pagan, Alamagan, Guguan, Zealandia Bank, Sarigan, Anatahan, and Farallon de Medinilla. The total land area of the islands, including offshore islets and rocks, is 154.755 km² (59.75 sq mi).\n\nAs of the 2010 census, the municipality is reported to be uninhabited. Pagan and Agrihan are known to have seasonal populations. Many Northern Island inhabitants have secondary residences on Saipan due to economic, educational or other needs. Some islands had also been evacuated due to volcanic activities such as in the case of Anatahan (2003) and Pagan (early 1980s).\n\nThe mayor's office and municipality administration, traditionally in the village of Shomushon on Pagan, is now \"in exile\" on Saipan. In 2005 there were 99 votes cast in the municipality. For the NMI House of Representatives, Northern Islands voters are grouped with one of the Saipan districts.\n\nMost of the Northern Islands can only be reached by boat, except for an airstrip that serves Pagan. There are no electricity or telephone systems, and residents rely on generators for electricity and radio for communications.\n\nAgriculture and fishing are essentially the only economic activities, although on Pagan pozzolan mining became a small industry after the early-1980s volcanic eruptions.\n\nPreviously Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Public School System operated an elementary school on Pagan prior to the 1981 eruptions. In 1977 the school had 13 students. Students from Pagan attending secondary school did so on Saipan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16969826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16969826", "title": "Outline of North America", "text": "Outline of North America\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to North America.\n\nNorth America is a continent in the Earth's Northern and Western Hemispheres. It is bordered on the north by the Arctic Ocean, on the east by the North Atlantic Ocean, on the southeast by the Caribbean Sea, and on the south and west by the North Pacific Ocean; South America lies to the southeast. North America covers an area of about , about 4.8% of the planet's surface or about 16.5% of its land area. As of July 2007, its population was estimated at nearly 524 million people. It is the third-largest continent in area, following Asia and Africa, and is fourth in population after Asia, Africa, and Europe. North America and South America are collectively known as the Americas.\n\nGeography of North America\n\nUnited Nations geoscheme for the Americas\nCoats of arms of North AmericaFlags of North AmericaList of North American countries by GDP (PPP)List of North American countries by populationList of cities in North America\n\nTable of the highest major summits of North AmericaTable of the most prominent summits of North AmericaTable of the most isolated major summits of North America\n\nList of World Heritage Sites in the Americas\n\n\nCulture of North America\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16283427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16283427", "title": "Outline of the Bahamas", "text": "Outline of the Bahamas\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the Bahamas:\n\nCommonwealth of the Bahamas – sovereign island nation comprising an archipelago of seven hundred islands and two thousand cays. The Bahamas are located in the Atlantic Ocean, southeast of Florida and the United States, north of Cuba, the island of Hispaniola and the Caribbean, and northwest of the British overseas territory of the Turks and Caicos Islands.\n\n\nGeography of the Bahamas\n\n\n\nList of Islands in the Bahamas\n\nRegions of the Bahamas\n\nList of ecoregions in the Bahamas\n\nAdministrative divisions of the Bahamas\n\nDistricts of the Bahamas\n\n\nDemographics of the Bahamas\n\n\nGovernment of the Bahamas\n\n\n\nCourt system of the Bahamas\n\nForeign relations of the Bahamas\n\nThe Commonwealth of the Bahamas is a member of:\n\nLaw of the Bahamas\n\nMilitary of the Bahamas\n\nLocal government in the Bahamas\n\nHistory of the Bahamas\n\n\nCulture of the Bahamas\n\n\n\nSports in the Bahamas\n\n\n\n\n\nEconomy of the Bahamas\n\nEducation in the Bahamas\n\nList of Bahamians\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Bahamas\n\n"}
{"id": "16695729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16695729", "title": "Prlekija", "text": "Prlekija\n\nPrlekija is a region in northeastern Slovenia between the Drava and Mura rivers. It comprises the eastern part of the Slovene Hills (), stretching from the border with Austria to the border with Croatia. It is part of the traditional province of Lower Styria. Together with the traditional province of Prekmurje, it forms part of the Mura Statistical Region. Its central town is Ljutomer.\n\nThe region is known for its first-class wines, food, and the specific dialect of its inhabitants, which has similarities to the Prekmurje Slovene, with which it is mutually intelligible. The symbol of the region is the \"klopotec\", a wooden mechanical device on a high wooden pole, similar to a windmill. \"Prleška tünka\" is a protected food product from Prlekija. It is made of minced lard and pork. Prlekija is also known by the pastry \"prleška gibanica\", made of several layers and with a sweet filling.\n\nThe region comprises the municipalities of Križevci pri Ljutomeru, Ljutomer, Radenci, Razkrižje, Sveti Jurij ob Ščavnici, Veržej, and Gornja Radgona.\n\nThe Prlekija region is known for its many prominent natives. They include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3157297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3157297", "title": "Provinces of Bolivia", "text": "Provinces of Bolivia\n\nA province is the second largest administrative division in Bolivia, after a department. Each department is divided into provinces. There are 112 provinces.\n\nThe country's provinces are further divided into 337 municipalities which are administered by an alcalde and municipal council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3516549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3516549", "title": "Sabina (region)", "text": "Sabina (region)\n\nSabina (Latin: \"Sabinium\"), also called the Sabine Hills, is a region in central Italy. It is named after Sabina, the territory of the ancient Sabines, which was once bordered by Latium to the south, Picenum to the east, ancient Umbria to the north and Etruria to the west. It was separated from Umbria by the River Nar, today's Nera, and from Etruria by the River Tiber. Today, Sabina is mainly northeast of Rome in the regions Lazio, Umbria and Abruzzo. \"Upper Sabina\" is in the province of Rieti (Poggio Mirteto, Magliano Sabina, Casperia, Montopoli di Sabina, Torri in Sabina, Cantalupo in Sabina, Montebuono, Forano, Poggio Catino, Montasola, Stimigliano, Castelnuovo di Farfa, Fara in Sabina, Roccantica, Mompeo, Salisano, Cottanello, Configni, Vacone, Tarano, Collevecchio, Toffia, Poggio Nativo, ecc.). \"Sabina Romana\" is in the province of Rome (Mentana, Monteflavio, Montelibretti, Monterotondo, Montorio Romano, Moricone, Nerola, Palombara Sabina). Part of Sabina is in the regions of Umbria (territories of Narni, Amelia, Cascia, Norcia, partially Upper Valnerina, etc.) and Abruzzo (from Valle dell'Aterno to L'Aquila).\n\nSome Sabines who lived in two of the Seven Hills of Rome (the Quirinal and Viminal) formed part of the postulation of Rome (together with the Latins who lived on the other hills) at the time of its foundation. The second king of Rome, Numa Pompilius, was from Cures, the capital of Sabina. During the reigns of the Roman kings Ancus Marcius and Tarquinius Priscus the Sabines attacked Roman territory several times. This also occurred during the early period of the Roman Republic. After the Third Samnite War (298-290 BC), the Romans moved to crush the Sabines. The Roman consul Manius Curius Dentatus pushed deep into Sabina in the area between the rivers Nar (today’s Nera, the main tributary of the River Tiber) and Anio (Aniene, another tributary of the Tiber) and the source of the River Avens (Velino). Spurius Carvilius confiscated large tracts of land in the plain around Reate (today’s Rieti) and Amiternum (11 km from L'Aquila), which he distributed to Roman settlers. Florus did not give the reasons for this campaign. The modem historian Salmon speculates that \"it might have been because of the part they [the Sabines] had played or failed to play in the events of 296/295 [BC].\" That is, they let the Samnites cross their territory to go to Etruria and join forces with the Etruscans, Umbrians and Senone Gauls. Forsythe also speculates that it may have been a punishment for this. Livy mentioned that Dentatus subdued the rebellious Sabines. The Sabines were given citizenship without the right to vote (\"civitas sine suffragio\"), which meant that their territory was effectively annexed to the Roman Republic. Reate and Amiternum were given full Roman citizenship (civitas optimo iure) in 268 BC.\n\nIn the Augustan division of Italy, Sabina was included in the region IV \"Samnium\". With Diocletian's late 3rd-century administrative reforms, Italy became a Roman diocese and was subdivided into Roman provinces. Sabina became part of the province of Samnium. Constantine the Great turned Italy into a praetorian prefecture and subdivided it into two dioceses. Sabina fell under the diocese of \"Italia suburbicaria\" as the province of \"Valeria\". With the Lombard invasion of Italy in the Early Middle Ages, the territory of Sabina became part of the Lombard Duchy of Spoleto. With the Byzantine reconquest of central Italy, it came under the Duchy of Rome of the Byzantine Exarchate of Ravenna. With the rise of the Papal States, Sabina was governed directly by the pontificate or indirectly, by the \"counts of Sabina\", a title of the noble Crescentii family in the 10th and 11th centuries. During the late 9th to early 10th century, the region was, along with much of central Italy, a stronghold of, or threatened by the Saracens.\n\nThe extra virgin olive oil Sabina is, chronologically speaking, the first Italian Protected Designation of Origin (PDO) oil to gain the certification from the European Community, the production of olives and oil is a millennial tradition in Sabine.\n\nIn 1996, the Italian government designated the vineyards around the Sabine Hills as a DOC wine region eligible to produce red, white and \"rose\" wine as well as some sweet sparkling wine from white grape varieties. The grapes are limited to a harvest yields of 12 tonnes/ha. Red and \"rose\" wines are a blend of mostly 40–70% Sangiovese, 15–40% Montepulciano with other local varieties permitted up to 30%. The white wines are a blend of at least 40% Trebbiano and at least 40% Malvasia with other local grape varieties permitted to make up to 20% of the remaining blend. Red and \"rose\" wines must have a minimum alcohol level of 11% with whites having a minimum of 10.5%.\n\nSabina has been the seat of a Catholic bishopric since the 6th century, though the earliest names in the list of bishops may be apocryphal.\n\nThe official papal province of Sabina was established under Pope Paul V in 1605. The Cardinal Bishop of Sabina is one of the six \"suburbican tituli\" (not counting Ostia) of the College of Cardinals which carry the rank of Cardinal Bishop.\n\nSince 1925 the Cardinal Titular Church of Sabina has been joined to that of Poggio Mirteto, a municipality of the region, and officially named \"Sabina e Poggio Mirteto\", since 1986 \"Sabina–Poggio Mirteto\". The current (since 2000) Cardinal Bishop of Sabina-Poggio Mirteto is Giovanni Battista Re.\n\nHenry James, American author, visited on horseback at the end of January 1872. The area was bright and alive. It was charged \"to the supersensuous ear, with the murmur of an extinguished life\". He also noted to his family that \"I can stick on a horse better than I supposed\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21295019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21295019", "title": "South Norway", "text": "South Norway\n\nSouth Norway (Norwegian: \"Sør-Norge\", Northern Sami: \"Lulli-Norga\") is the southern and by far most populous half of Norway, consisting of the regions of Western Norway, Eastern Norway, Southern Norway (Agder) and Trøndelag (Central Norway).\n\nSouth Norway has no administrative functions, and does not constitute a cultural or linguistic region, as opposed to Northern Norway, the northern half of the country. To people from the latter region, citizens hailing from the southern half are known by the exonym \"søringer\" (southerners). The inhabitants themselves, however, have no common \"southern\" identity, as they rather identify with the regions they are from and call themselves \"vestlendinger\" (from Western Norway), \"østlendinger\" (from Eastern Norway), \"sørlendinger\" (from Southern Norway) and \"trøndere\" (from Trøndelag). Practical use of the region mostly applies to purposes such as weather forecasting.\n\nSouth Norway (\"Sør-Norge\") must not be confused with Southern Norway (\"Sørlandet\"), which is a sub-region with a distinct cultural identity limited to the two southern-most counties of Vest-Agder and Aust-Agder, encompassing the historical district of Agder.\n"}
{"id": "16653248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16653248", "title": "United Nations geoscheme for Asia", "text": "United Nations geoscheme for Asia\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of subregions in the United Nations geoscheme for Asia. The UNSD notes that \"the assignment of countries or areas to specific groupings is for statistical convenience and does not imply any assumption regarding political or other affiliation of countries or territories\".\n\n\nSeveral institutions and research papers using classification schemes based on the UN geoscheme include Taiwan separately in their divisions of Eastern Asia. (1) The Unicode CLDR's \"Territory Containment (UN M.49)\" includes Taiwan in its presentation of the UN M.49. (2) The public domain map dataset Natural Earth has metadata in the fields named \"region_un\" and \"subregion\" for Taiwan. (3)The regional split recommended by Lloyd's of London for Eastern Asia (UN statistical divisions of Eastern Asia) contains Taiwan. (4) Based on the United Nations statistical divisions, the APRICOT (conference) includes Taiwan in East Asia. (5) Studying Website Usability in Asia, Ather Nawaz and Torkil Clemmensen select Asian countries on the basis of United Nations statistical divisions, and Taiwan is also included. (6) Taiwan is also included in the UN Geoscheme of Eastern Asia in one systematic review on attention deficit hyperactivity disorder \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46975988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46975988", "title": "Vital Cuinet", "text": "Vital Cuinet\n\nVital-Casimir Cuinet, commonly known as Vital Cuinet (Longeville- December 19, 1833 - Istanbul, September 6, 1896) was a French geographer and orientalist. He is best known for his work \"La Turquie d'Asie, géographie administrative: statistique, descriptive et raisonnée de chaque province de l'Asie Mineure\", which addresses the socio-economic situation of the Ottoman Empire in Asia.\n\nHis figures were also used to establish the ability of the Ottoman Empire to pay its debts, Cuinet eager to get precise numbers was finally forced to conclude that it was not possible to get them, he gives two main reasons for this.\n\n\nAn example often referred by the critics, was Cuinet's statistics drawn from Ottoman authority numbers and information that they provided him regarding the Vilayet of Aleppo (classified in those works as the sandjak of Marash). The number is an impossible 4,300. While only in the city of Marash, the Catholic and Protestant Armenians were numbering 6,008, and this without including the Gregorians. Cuinet at the beginning of his work, cautioned the reader by declaring: \"The science of statistics so worthy and interesting, not only still is not used in this country but even the authorities refuses, with a party line, to accept any investigation.\"\n"}
