{"id": "1298456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298456", "title": "Adivasi", "text": "Adivasi\n\nAdivasi is the collective term for the indigenous peoples of mainland South Asia. Adivasi make up 8.6% of India's population, or 104 million people, according to the 2011 census, and a large percentage of the Nepalese population. They comprise a substantial indigenous minority of the population of India and Nepal and a minority group of the Sri Lankan society called Vedda. The same term Adivasi is used for the ethnic minorities of Bangladesh and the native Tharu people of Nepal. The word is also used in the same sense in Nepal, as is another word, janajati (; ), although the political context differed historically under the Shah and Rana dynasties.\n\nAdivasi societies are particularly prominent in Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, West Bengal, and some north-eastern states, and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Many smaller tribal groups are quite sensitive to ecological degradation caused by modernisation. Both commercial forestry and intensive agriculture have proved destructive to the forests that had endured swidden agriculture for many centuries. Adivasis in central part of India have been victims of the Salwa Judum campaign by the Government against the Naxalite insurgency.\nThe word Adivasi means the first inhabitants or the Indigenous People, a phrase recognised by the Supreme Court of India\n\nAlthough terms such as \"atavika\", \"vanavāsi\" (\"forest dwellers\"), or \"girijan\" (\"mountain people\") are also used for the tribes of India, \"adivāsi\" carries the specific meaning of being the original and autochthonous inhabitants of a given region. It is a modern Sanskrit word specifically coined for that purpose in the 1930s, from \"ādi\" 'beginning, origin' and \"vāsin\" 'dweller' (itself from \"vas\" 'to dwell'), thus literally meaning ‘original inhabitant’. Over time, unlike the terms \"aborigines\" or \"tribes\", the word \"adivasi\" has developed a connotation of past autonomy disrupted during the British colonial period in India and not yet having been restored.\n\nIn India, opposition to usage of the term is varied. Critics argue that the \"original inhabitant\" contention is based on the fact that they have no land and are therefore asking for a land reform. The adivasis argue that they have been oppressed by the \"superior group\" and that they require and demand a reward, more specifically land reform.\nAdivasi issues are not related to land reforms but to the historical rights to the forests that were alienated during the colonial period and India finally made a law to 'undo the historical injustice' committed to the Adivasis\n\nIn Northeast India, the term adivāsi applies only to the Tea-tribes imported from Central India during colonial times.\n\nA substantial list of Scheduled Tribes in India are recognised as tribal under the Constitution of India. Tribal people constitute 8.6% of the nation's total population, over 104 million people according to the 2011 census. One concentration lives in a belt along the Himalayas stretching through Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttarakhand in the west, to Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur, and Nagaland in the northeast. In the northeastern states of Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, and Nagaland, more than 90% of the population is tribal. However, in the remaining northeast states of Assam, Manipur, Sikkim, and Tripura, tribal peoples form between 20 and 30% of the population. Other tribal peoples, including the Santals, live in Jharkhand and West Bengal. Central Indian states have the country's largest tribes, and, taken as a whole, roughly 75% of the total tribal population live there, although the tribal population there accounts for only around 10% of the region's total population.\n\nSmaller numbers of tribal people are found in Odisha in eastern India; Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala in southern India; in western India in Gujarat and Rajasthan, and in the union territories of Lakshadweep and the Andaman Islands and Nicobar Islands. About one percent of the populations of Kerala and Tamil Nadu are tribal, whereas about six percent in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are members of tribes.\n\nThe term 'Scheduled Tribes'(ST's) first appeared in the Constitution of India. Article 366 (25) defined scheduled tribes as \"such tribes or tribal communities or parts of or groups within such tribes or tribal communities as are deemed under Article 342 to be Scheduled Tribes for the purposes of this constitution\". Article 342, which is reproduced below, prescribes procedure to be followed in the matter of specification of scheduled tribes.\n\nArt. 15(4) - Special provisions for advancement of other backward classes (which includes STs);\n\nArt. 29 - Protection of Interests of Minorities (which includes STs);\n\nArt. 46 - The State shall promote, with special care, the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and in particular, of the Scheduled Castes, and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation,\n\nArt. 350 - Right to conserve distinct Language, Script or Culture;\n\nArt. 350 - Instruction in Mother Tongue.\n\nArt. 23 - Prohibition of traffic in human beings and beggar and other similar form of forced labour\n\nArt. 24 - Forbidding Child Labour.\n\nArt.244 - Clause(1) Provisions of Fifth Schedule shall apply to the administration & control of the Scheduled Areas and Scheduled Tribes in any State other than the states of Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura which are covered under Sixth Schedule, under Clause (2) of this Article.\n\nArt. 275 - Grants in-Aid to specified States (STs &SAs) covered under Fifth and Sixth Schedules of the Constitution.\n\nArt.164 (1) - Provides for Tribal Affairs Ministers in Bihar, MP and Orissa\n\nArt. 330 - Reservation of seats for STs in Lok Sabha\n\nArt. 337 - Reservation of seats for STs in State Legislatures\n\nArt. 334 - 10 years period for reservation (Amended several times to extend the period\n\nArt. 243 - Reservation of seats in Panchayats\n\nArt. 371 - Special provisions in respect of NE States and Sikkim\n\nThe Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,1989 and the Rules 1995 framed there under.\nBonded Labour System (Abolition) Act 1976 (in respect of Scheduled Tribes);\n\nThe Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act1986;\n\nStates Acts & Regulations concerning alienation & restoration of land belonging to STs;\nForest Conservation Act 1980; Forests Right's Act 2006;\n\nPanchayatiraj (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act 1996;\n\nMinimum Wages Act 1948.\n\nThe Scheduled Tribe groups who were identified as more isolated from the wider community and who maintain a distinctive cultural identity have been categorised as 'Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups' (PTGs) previously known as Primitive Tribal Groups) by the Government at the Centre. So far seventy-five tribal communities have been identified as 'particularly vulnerable tribal groups' in different States of India. These hunting, food-gathering, and some agricultural communities, have been identified as less acculturated tribes among the tribal population groups and in need of special programmes for their sustainable development. The tribes are awakening and demanding their rights for special reservation quota for them.\n\nAlthough considered uncivilised and primitive, adivasis were usually not held to be intrinsically impure by surrounding (usually Dravidian or Aryan) casted Hindu populations, unlike Dalits, who were. Thus, the adivasi origins of Valmiki, who composed the Ramayana, were acknowledged, as were the origins of adivasi tribes such as the Garasia and Bhilala, which descended from mixed Rajput and Bhil marriages. Unlike the subjugation of the Dalits, the adivasis often enjoyed autonomy and, depending on region, evolved mixed hunter-gatherer and farming economies, controlling their lands as a joint patrimony of the tribe. In some areas, securing adivasi approval and support was considered crucial by local rulers, and larger adivasi groups were able to sustain their own kingdoms in central India. The Meenas and Gond Rajas of Garha-Mandla and Chanda are examples of an adivasi aristocracy that ruled in this region, and were \"not only the hereditary leaders of their Gond subjects, but also held sway over substantial communities of non-tribals who recognized them as their feudal lords.\"\n\nThe historiography of relationships between the Advasis and the rest of the Indian society is patchy. There are references to alliances between Ahom Kings of Brahmaputra valley and the hill Nagas \nThis relative autonomy and collective ownership of adivasi land by adivasis was severely disrupted by the advent of the Mughals in the early 16th century. Rebellions against Mughal authority include the Bhil Rebellion of 1632 and the Bhil-Gond Insurrection of 1643 which were both pacified by Mughal soldiers. With the advent of the Kachwaha Rajputs and Mughals into their territory, the Meenas were gradually sidelined and pushed deep into the forests. As a result, historical literature has completely bypassed the Meena tribe. The combined army of Mughals and Bharmal attacked the tribal king Bada Meena and killed him damaging 52 kots and 56 gates. Bada's treasure was shared between Mughals and Bharmal.\n\nFrom the very early days of British rule, the tribesmen resented the British encroachments upon their tribal system. They were found resisting or supporting their brethren of Tamar and Jhalda in rebellion. Nor did their \"raja\" welcome the British administrative innovations. Beginning in the 18th century, the British added to the consolidation of feudalism in India, first under the Jagirdari system and then under the zamindari system. Beginning with the Permanent Settlement imposed by the British in Bengal and Bihar, which later became the template for a deepening of feudalism throughout India, the older social and economic system in the country began to alter radically. Land, both forest areas belonging to adivasis and settled farmland belonging to non-adivasi peasants, was rapidly made the legal property of British-designated zamindars (landlords), who in turn moved to extract the maximum economic benefit possible from their newfound property and subjects. Adivasi lands sometimes experienced an influx of non-local settlers, often brought from far away (as in the case of Muslims and Sikhs brought to Kol territory) by the zamindars to better exploit local land, forest and labour. Deprived of the forests and resources they traditionally depended on and sometimes coerced to pay taxes, many adivasis were forced to borrow at usurious rates from moneylenders, often the zamindars themselves. When they were unable to pay, that forced them to become bonded labourers for the zamindars. Often, far from paying off the principal of their debt, they were unable even to offset the compounding interest, and this was made the justification for their children working for the zamindar after the death of the initial borrower. In the case of the Andamanese adivasis, long isolated from the outside world in autonomous societies, mere contact with outsiders was often sufficient to set off deadly epidemics in tribal populations, and it is alleged that some sections of the British government directly attempted to destroy some tribes.\n\nLand dispossession and subjugation by British and zamindar interests resulted in a number of adivasi revolts in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, such as the Santal hul (or Santhal rebellion) of 1855–56. Although these were suppressed ruthlessly by the governing British authority (the East India Company prior to 1858, and the British government after 1858), partial restoration of privileges to adivasi elites (e.g. to \"Mankis\", the leaders of Munda tribes) and some leniency in tax burdens resulted in relative calm, despite continuing and widespread dispossession, from the late nineteenth century onwards. The economic deprivation, in some cases, triggered internal adivasi migrations within India that would continue for another century, including as labour for the emerging tea plantations in Assam.\n\nThere were tribal reform and rebellion movements during the period of the British Empire, some of which also participated in the Indian independence movement or attacked mission posts. There were several Adivasis in the Indian independence movement including Dharindhar Bhyuan, Laxman Naik, Jantya Bhil, Bangaru Devi and Rehma Vasave.\n\nDuring the period of British rule, India saw the rebellions of several backward castes, mainly tribal peoples that revolted against British rule. These were:\n\n\nPopulation complexities, and the controversies surrounding ethnicity and language in India, sometimes make the official recognition of groups as adivasis (by way of inclusion in the Scheduled Tribes list) political and contentious. However, regardless of their language family affiliations, Australoid and Negrito groups that have survived as distinct forest, mountain or island dwelling tribes in India and are often classified as adivasi. The relatively autonomous Mongoloid tribal groups of Northeastern India (including Khasis, Apatani and Nagas), who are mostly Austro-Asiatic or Tibeto-Burman speakers, are also considered to be adivasis: this area comprises 7.5% of India's land area but 20% of its adivasi population. However, not all autonomous northeastern groups are considered adivasis; for instance, the Tibeto-Burman-speaking Meitei of Manipur were once tribal but, having been settled for many centuries, are caste Hindus.\n\nIt is also difficult, for a given social grouping, to definitively decide whether it is a 'caste' or a 'tribe'. A combination of internal social organisation, relationship with other groups, self-classification and perception by other groups has to be taken into account to make a categorisation, which is at best inexact and open to doubt. These categorisations have been diffused for thousands of years, and even ancient formulators of caste-discriminatory legal codes (which usually only applied to settled populations, and not adivasis) were unable to come up with clean distinctions.\n\nThe additional difficulty in deciding whether a group meets the criteria to be adivasi or not are the aspirational movements created by the federal and state benefits, including job and educational reservations, enjoyed by groups listed as scheduled tribes (STs). In Manipur, Meitei commentators have pointed to the lack of scheduled tribe status as a key economic disadvantage for Meiteis competing for jobs against groups that are classified as scheduled tribes. In Assam, Rajbongshi representatives have demanded scheduled tribe status as well. In Rajasthan, the Gujjar community has demanded ST status, even blockading the national capital of Delhi to press their demand. However, the Government of Rajasthan declined the Gujjars' demand, stating the Gujjars are treated as upper caste and are by no means a tribe. In several cases, these claims to tribalhood are disputed by tribes who are already listed in the schedule and fear economic losses if more powerful groups are recognised as scheduled tribes; for instance, the Rajbongshi demand faces resistance from the Bodo tribe, and the Meena tribe has vigorously opposed Gujjar aspirations to be recognised as a scheduled tribe.\n\nPart of the challenge is that the endogamous nature of tribes is also conformed to by the vast majority of Hindu castes. Indeed, many historians and anthropologists believe that caste endogamy reflects the once-tribal origins of the various groups who now constitute the settled Hindu castes. Another defining feature of caste Hindu society, which is often used to contrast them with Muslim and other social groupings, is lineage/clan (or \"gotra\") and village exogamy. However, these in-marriage taboos are also held ubiquitously among tribal groups, and do not serve as reliable differentiating markers between caste and tribe. Again, this could be an ancient import from tribal society into settled Hindu castes. Tribes such as the Muslim Gujjars of Kashmir and the Kalash of Pakistan observe these exogamous traditions in common with caste Hindus and non-Kashmiri adivasis, though their surrounding Muslim populations do not.\n\nSome anthropologists, however, draw a distinction between tribes who have continued to be tribal and tribes that have been absorbed into caste society in terms of the breakdown of tribal (and therefore caste) boundaries, and the proliferation of new mixed caste groups. In other words, ethnogenesis (the construction of new ethnic identities) in tribes occurs through a fission process (where groups splinter-off as new tribes, which preserves endogamy), whereas with settled castes it usually occurs through intermixture (in violation of strict endogamy).\n\nUnlike castes, which form part of a complex and interrelated local economic exchange system, tribes tend to form self-sufficient economic units. For most tribal people, land-use rights traditionally derive simply from tribal membership. Tribal society tends to the egalitarian, with its leadership based on ties of kinship and personality rather than on hereditary status. Tribes typically consist of segmentary lineages whose extended families provide the basis for social organisation and control. Tribal religion recognises no authority outside the tribe.\n\nAny of these criteria may not apply in specific instances. Language does not always give an accurate indicator of tribal or caste status. Especially in regions of mixed population, many tribal groups have lost their original languages and simply speak local or regional languages. In parts of Assam—an area historically divided between warring tribes and villages—increased contact among villagers began during the colonial period, and has accelerated since independence in 1947. A pidgin Assamese developed, whereas educated tribal members learnt Hindi and, in the late twentieth century, English.\n\nSelf-identification and group loyalty do not provide unfailing markers of tribal identity either. In the case of stratified tribes, the loyalties of clan, kin, and family may well predominate over those of tribe. In addition, tribes cannot always be viewed as people living apart; the degree of isolation of various tribes has varied tremendously. The Gonds, Santals, and Bhils traditionally have dominated the regions in which they have lived. Moreover, tribal society is not always more egalitarian than the rest of the rural populace; some of the larger tribes, such as the Gonds, are highly stratified.\n\nThe apparently wide fluctuation in estimates of South Asia's tribal population through the twentieth century gives a sense of how unclear the distinction between tribal and nontribal can be. India's 1931 census enumerated 22 million tribal people, in 1941 only 10 million were counted, but by 1961 some 30 million and in 1991 nearly 68 million tribal members were included. The differences among the figures reflect changing census criteria and the economic incentives individuals have to maintain or reject classification as a tribal member.\n\nThese gyrations of census data serve to underline the complex relationship between caste and tribe. Although, in theory, these terms represent different ways of life and ideal types, in reality they stand for a continuum of social groups. In areas of substantial contact between tribes and castes, social and cultural pressures have often tended to move tribes in the direction of becoming castes over a period of years. Tribal peoples with ambitions for social advancement in Indian society at large have tried to gain the classification of caste for their tribes. On occasion, an entire tribe or part of a tribe joined a Hindu sect and thus entered the caste system \"en masse\". If a specific tribe engaged in practices that Hindus deemed polluting, the tribe's status when it was assimilated into the caste hierarchy would be affected.\n\nThe majority of Adivasi practice Hinduism and Christianity. During the last two decades Adivasi from Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand have converted to Protestant groups.\nAdivasi beliefs vary by tribe, and are usually different from the historical Vedic religion, with its monistic underpinnings, Indo-European deities (who are often cognates of ancient Iranian, Greek and Roman deities, e.g. Mitra/Mithra/Mithras), lack of idol worship and lack of a concept of reincarnation.\n\nAnimism (from Latin \"animus, -i\" \"soul, life\") is the worldview that non-human entities (animals, plants, and inanimate objects or phenomena) possess a spiritual essence. The \"Encyclopaedia of Religion and Society\" estimates that 1–5% of India's population is animist. India's government recognises that India's indigenous subscribe to pre-Hindu animist-based religions.\n\nAnimism is used in the anthropology of religion as a term for the belief system of some indigenous tribal peoples, especially prior to the development of organised religion. Although each culture has its own different mythologies and rituals, \"animism\" is said to describe the most common, foundational thread of indigenous peoples' \"spiritual\" or \"supernatural\" perspectives. The animistic perspective is so fundamental, mundane, everyday and taken-for-granted that most animistic indigenous people do not even have a word in their languages that corresponds to \"animism\" (or even \"religion\"); the term is an anthropological construct rather than one designated by the people themselves.\n\nDonyi-Polo is the designation given to the indigenous religions, of animistic and shamanic type, of the Tani, from Arunachal Pradesh, in northeastern India. The name \"Donyi-Polo\" means \"Sun-Moon\".\n\nSanamahism is the worship of Sanamahi, the eternal force/cells responsible for the continuity of living creations. Sanamahi referred here is not to be confused with Lainingthou Sanamahi (The Supreme House-dwelling God of the Sanamahism). The religion has a great and unique traditional history which has been preserved till date for worshipping ancestors as almighty. Thus it signifies that Sanamahism is the worship of eternal force/cells present in living creations.\n\nSidaba Mapu, the Creator God of Sanamahism. Sanamahism is one of the oldest religion of South East Asia. It originated in Manipur and is mainly practiced by the Meitei, Kabui, Zeliangrong and other communities who inhabit in Manipur, Assam, Tripura.\n\nSarnaism or Sarna (local languages: \"Sarna Dhorom\", meaning \"religion of the holy woods\") defines the indigenous religions of the Adivasi populations of the states of Central-East India, such as the Munda, the Ho, the Santali, the Khuruk, and the others. The Munda, Ho, Santhal and Oraon tribe followed the Sarna religion, where Sarna means sacred grove. Their religion is based on the oral traditions passed from generation-to-generation. It strongly believes in one God, the Great Spirit.\n\nAnimist hunter gatherer Nayaka people of Nigrill's hills of South India.\n\nAnimism is the traditional religion of Nicobarese people; their religion is marked by the dominance and interplay with spirit worship, witch doctors and animal sacrifice.\n\nSome historians and anthropologists assert that much of what constitutes folk Hinduism today is actually descended from an amalgamation of adivasi faiths, idol worship practices and deities, rather than the original Indo-Aryan faith. This also includes the sacred status of certain animals such as monkeys, cows, fish, matsya, peacocks, cobras (nagas) and elephants and plants such as the sacred fig (\"pipal\"), Ocimum tenuiflorum (\"tulsi\") and Azadirachta indica (\"neem\"), which may once have held totemic importance for certain adivasi tribes.\n\nA sant is an Indian holy man, and a title of a devotee or ascetic, especially in north and east India. Generally a holy or saintly person is referred to as a mahatma, paramahamsa, or swami, or given the prefix Sri or Srila before their name. The term is sometimes misrepresented in English as \"Hindu saint\", although \"sant\" is unrelated to \"saint\".\n\n\n\n\n\nSome Hindus believe that Indian tribals are close to the romantic ideal of the ancient culture of the Vedic people. Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar said:\n\nAt the Lingaraj Temple in Bhubaneswar, there are Brahmin and Badu (tribal) priests. The Badus have the most intimate contact with the deity of the temple, and only they can bathe and adorn it.\n\nThe Bhils are mentioned in the Mahabharata. The Bhil boy Ekalavya's teacher was Drona, and he had the honour to be invited to Yudhishthira's Rajasuya Yajna at Indraprastha. Indian tribals were also part of royal armies in the Ramayana and in the Arthashastra.\n\nShabari was a Bhil woman who offered Rama and Lakshmana jujubes when they were searching for Sita in the forest. Matanga, a Bhil, became a Brahmana.\n\ned against this custom.\n\nSome Adivasi organisations have demanded that a distinct religious code be listed for Adivasis in the 2011 census of India. The All India Adivasi Conference was held on 1 and 2 January 2011 at Burnpur, Asansol, West Bengal. 750 delegates were present from all parts of India and cast their votes for Religion code as follows: Sari Dhorom – 632, Sarna – 51, Kherwalism – 14 and Other Religions – 03. Census of India.\n\nTribals are not part of the caste system, and usually constitute egalitarian societies. Christian tribals do not automatically lose their traditional tribal rules.\n\nWhen in 1891 a missionary asked 150 Munda Christians to \"inter-dine\" with people of different rank, only 20 Christians did so, and many converts lost their new faith. Father Haghenbeek concluded on this episode that these rules are not \"pagan\", but a sign of \"national sentiment and pride\", and wrote:\n\nHowever, many scholars argue that the claim that tribals are an egalitarian society in contrast to a caste-based society is a part of a larger political agenda by some to maximise any differences from tribal and urban societies. According to scholar Koenraad Elst, caste practices and social taboos among Indian tribals date back to antiquity:\n\nInter-dining has also been prohibited by many Indian tribal peoples.\n\nAccording to the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Orders (Amendment) Act, 1990, Scheduled Tribe can belong to any religion. The scheduled tribe population in Jharkhand constitutes 26.2% of the state. Tribals in Jharkhand mainly follow Sarnaism, an animistic religion. Chhattisgarh has also 32-25 per cent scheduled tribe population. Assam has 40 lakh Adivasis. Adivasis in India mainly follow Animism, Hinduism and Christianity.\n\nTribal communities in India are the least educationally developed. First generation learners have to face social, psychological and cultural barriers to get education. This has been one of the reason for poor performance of tribal students in schools. Poor literacy rate since independence has resulted in absence of tribals in academia and higher education. The literacy rate for STs has gone up from 8.5% (male – 13.8%, female – 3.2%) in 1961 to 29.6% (male – 40.6%, female – 18.2%) in 1991 and to 40% (male – 59%, female – 37%) in 1999–2000. States with large proportion of STs like Mizoram, Nagaland and Meghalaya have high literacy rate while States with large number of tribals like Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh have low tribal literacy rate. Tribal students have very high drop-out rates during school education.\n\nExtending the system of primary education into tribal areas and reserving places for needing them, they say, to work in the fields. On the other hand, in those parts of the northeast where tribes have generally been spared the wholesale onslaught of outsiders, schooling has helped tribal people to secure political and economic benefits. The education system there has provided a corps of highly trained tribal members in the professions and high-ranking administrative posts. tribal children in middle and high schools and higher education institutions are central to government policy, but efforts to improve a tribe's educational status have had mixed results. Recruitment of qualified teachers and determination of the appropriate language of instruction also remain troublesome. Commission after commission on the \"language question\" has called for instruction, at least at the primary level, in the students' native language. In some regions, tribal children entering school must begin by learning the official regional language, often one completely unrelated to their tribal language.\n\nMany tribal schools are plagued by high drop-out rates. Children attend for the first three to four years of primary school and gain a smattering of knowledge, only to lapse into illiteracy later. Few who enter continue up to the tenth grade; of those who do, few manage to finish high school. Therefore, very few are eligible to attend institutions of higher education, where the high rate of attrition continues. Members of agrarian tribes like the Gonds often are reluctant to send their children to school,\n\nAn academy for teaching and preserving Adivasi languages and culture was established in 1999 by the Bhasha Research and Publication Centre. The Adivasi Academy is located at Tejgadh in Gujarat.\n\n\nMost tribes are concentrated in heavily forested areas that combine inaccessibility with limited political or economic significance. Historically, the economy of most tribes was subsistence agriculture or hunting and gathering. Tribal members traded with outsiders for the few necessities they lacked, such as salt and iron. A few local Hindu craftsmen might provide such items as cooking utensils.\n\nIn the early 20th century, however, large areas fell into the hands of non-tribals, on account of improved transportation and communications. Around 1900, many regions were opened by the government to settlement through a scheme by which inward migrants received ownership of land free in return for cultivating it. For tribal people, however, land was often viewed as a common resource, free to whoever needed it. By the time tribals accepted the necessity of obtaining formal land titles, they had lost the opportunity to lay claim to lands that might rightfully have been considered theirs. The colonial and post-independence regimes belatedly realised the necessity of protecting tribals from the predations of outsiders and prohibited the sale of tribal lands. Although an important loophole in the form of land leases was left open, tribes made some gains in the mid-twentieth century, and some land was returned to tribal peoples despite obstruction by local police and land officials.\n\nIn the 1970s, tribal peoples came again under intense land pressure, especially in central India. Migration into tribal lands increased dramatically, as tribal people lost title to their lands in many ways – lease, forfeiture from debts, or bribery of land registry officials. Other non-tribals simply squatted, or even lobbied governments to classify them as tribal to allow them to compete with the formerly established tribes. In any case, many tribal members became landless labourers in the 1960s and 1970s, and regions that a few years earlier had been the exclusive domain of tribes had an increasingly mixed population of tribals and non-tribals. Government efforts to evict nontribal members from illegal occupation have proceeded slowly; when evictions occur at all, those ejected are usually members of poor, lower castes.\n\nImproved communications, roads with motorised traffic, and more frequent government intervention figured in the increased contact that tribal peoples had with outsiders. Commercial highways and cash crops frequently drew non-tribal people into remote areas. By the 1960s and 1970s, the resident nontribal shopkeeper was a permanent feature of many tribal villages. Since shopkeepers often sell goods on credit (demanding high interest), many tribal members have been drawn deeply into debt or mortgaged their land. Merchants also encourage tribals to grow cash crops (such as cotton or castor-oil plants), which increases tribal dependence on the market for necessities. Indebtedness is so extensive that although such transactions are illegal, traders sometimes 'sell' their debtors to other merchants, much like indentured peons.\n\nThe final blow for some tribes has come when nontribals, through political jockeying, have managed to gain legal tribal status, that is, to be listed as a Scheduled Tribe.\n\nTribes in the Himalayan foothills have not been as hard-pressed by the intrusions of non-tribal. Historically, their political status was always distinct from the rest of India. Until the British colonial period, there was little effective control by any of the empires centred in peninsular India; the region was populated by autonomous feuding tribes. The British, in efforts to protect the sensitive northeast frontier, followed a policy dubbed the \"Inner Line\"; non-tribal people were allowed into the areas only with special permission. Postindependence governments have continued the policy, protecting the Himalayan tribes as part of the strategy to secure the border with China.\n\nGovernment policies on forest reserves have affected tribal peoples profoundly. Government efforts to reserve forests have precipitated armed (if futile) resistance on the part of the tribal peoples involved. Intensive exploitation of forests has often meant allowing outsiders to cut large areas of trees (while the original tribal inhabitants were restricted from cutting), and ultimately replacing mixed forests capable of sustaining tribal life with single-product plantations. Nontribals have frequently bribed local officials to secure effective use of reserved forest lands.\n\nThe northern tribes have thus been sheltered from the kind of exploitation that those elsewhere in South Asia have suffered. In Arunachal Pradesh (formerly part of the North-East Frontier Agency), for example, tribal members control commerce and most lower-level administrative posts. Government construction projects in the region have provided tribes with a significant source of cash. Some tribes have made rapid progress through the education system (the role of early missionaries was significant in this regard). Instruction was begun in Assamese but was eventually changed to Hindi; by the early 1980s, English was taught at most levels. Northeastern tribal people have thus enjoyed a certain\nmeasure of social mobility.\n\nThe continuing economic alienation and exploitation of many adivasis was highlighted as a \"systematic failure\" by the Indian prime minister Manmohan Singh in a 2009 conference of chief ministers of all 29 Indian states, where he also cited this as a major cause of the Naxalite unrest that has affected areas such as the Red Corridor.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSome portraits of adivasi people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7529632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7529632", "title": "Aghul language", "text": "Aghul language\n\nAghul is a language spoken by the Aghuls in southern Dagestan, Russia and in Azerbaijan. It is spoken by about 29,300 people (2010 census).\n\nAghul belongs to the Eastern Samur group of the Lezgic branch of the Northeast Caucasian language family.\n\nIn 2002, Aghul was spoken by 28,300 people in Russia, mainly in Southern Dagestan, as well as 32 people in Azerbaijan.\nThere are nine languages in the Lezgian language family, namely: Aghul, Tabasaran, Rutul, Lezgian, Tsakhur, Budukh, Kryts, Udi and Archi.\n\nAghul has contrastive epiglottal consonants.\nAghul makes, like many Northeast Caucasian languages, a distinction between tense consonants with concomitant length and weak consonants. The tense consonants are characterized by the intensiveness (tension) of articulation, which naturally leads to a lengthening of the consonant so they are traditionally transcribed with the length diacritic. The gemination of the consonant itself does not create its tension, but morphologically tense consonants often derive from adjoining two single weak consonants. Some Aghul dialects have an especially large number of permitted initial tense consonants.\n\nThe vowels in bold are vowels that appears in «others letters combinations» in omniglot.\n\n\nThere are four core cases: absolutive, ergative, genitive, and dative, as well as a large series of location cases. All cases other than the absolutive (which is unmarked) and ergative take the ergative suffix before their own suffix.\n\nIndependent and predicative adjectives take number marker and class marker; also case if used as nominal. As attribute they are invariable. Thus \"idžed\" \"good\", ergative, \"idžedi\", etc. \"-n, -s;\" pl. \"idžedar\"; but \"Idže insandi hhuč qini\" \"The good man killed the wolf\" (subject in ergative case).\n\nІисайи пуная гебурис: – ДуьгІе акье миштти: «Дад, Ве ттур гирами хьурай; Ве Паччагьвел адирай. ТІалаб аркьая чин Вакес гьер ягьас гуни. Гъил гьушен че гунагьарилас, чинна гьил гьуршанду кІилди час Іайвелар аркьаттарилас. ХІа темехІера хьас амарта час».\n\nˡisaji punaja geburisi: – Du’gˡe ak’e mištti: \"Dad, Ve ttur girami x’uraj; Ve Paččag’vel adiraj. Tˡalab ark’aja čin Vakes g’er jag’as guni. G″il g’ušen če gunag’arilas, činna g’il g’uršandu kˡildi čas ˡajvelar ark’attarilas. Xˡa temexˡera x’as amarta čas.\" \n\nAnd he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth. Give us day by day our daily bread. And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5223189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5223189", "title": "Ahmad Shah Ahmadzai", "text": "Ahmad Shah Ahmadzai\n\nAhmad Shah Ahmadzai ( - born 30 March 1944) is an Afghan politician. He served as the prime minister of Afghanistan from 1992 to 1996. He is an ethnic Pashtun from the Ahmadzai sub-tribe.\n\nAhmad Shah Ahmadzai was born in Malang, a village in the Khaki Jabbar district of Kabul Province. He studied engineering at Kabul University and then worked in the agriculture ministry. In 1972 he received a scholarship to study in the United States, at Colorado State University. He received a master's degree in 1975 and became a professor at King Faisal University in Saudi Arabia.\n\nFollowing the communist coup in 1978, Ahmadzai returned to Afghanistan to join the mujahideen. He was a close associate of Burhanuddin Rabbani, being deputy of his Jamiat-e Islami party, but then left and joined Abdul Rasul Sayyaf's Islamic Dawah Organisation of Afghanistan party in 1992, the year that communist rule ended. He served as a minister in the post-communist Afghan government, variously as interior, construction and education minister, and later became prime minister between 1995 and 1996, although he has downplayed the import of these posts given the chaos due to the fighting at that time.\n\nAhmadzai left Afghanistan in 1996 after the government fled the Taliban advance. He lived in exile in Istanbul and London, before he returned to Afghanistan in 2001 after the fall of Taliban. He was an independent candidate in the 2004 Afghan presidential election supporting an Islamic system of government. He secured 0.8% of the total votes counted.\n\n"}
{"id": "342814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342814", "title": "Aleut language", "text": "Aleut language\n\nAleut (; \"Unangam Tunuu\") is the language spoken by the Aleut people (\"Unangax̂\") living in the Aleutian Islands, Pribilof Islands, Commander Islands, and the Alaskan Peninsula (in Aleut \"Alaxsxa\", the origin of the state name Alaska). Aleut is the sole language in the Aleut branch of the Eskimo–Aleut language family. The Aleut language consists of three dialects, including Eastern, Atkan, and Attuan (now extinct).\n\nVarious sources estimate there are fewer than 100 to 150 remaining active Aleut speakers. Eastern and Atkan Aleut are classified as \"critically and severely endangered\" and have an EGIDS rating of 7. The task of revitalizing Aleut has largely been left to local government and community organizations. The overwhelming majority of schools in the historically Aleut-speaking regions lack any language/culture courses in their curriculum, and those that do fail to produce fluent or even proficient speakers.\n\nIt is generally accepted that the Eskimo and Aleut peoples were part of a relatively late migration from Asia across the Bering Land Bridge, between 4,000 and 6,000 years ago. During this period the Proto-Eskimo-Aleut language was spoken, which broke up around 2000 BC (contemporaneous with the split of Proto-Indo-Iranian). Differentiation of the two branches is thought to have happened in Alaska because of the linguistic diversity found in the Eskimo languages of Alaska relative to the entire geographic area where Eskimo languages are spoken (eastward through Canada to Greenland). After the split between the two branches, their development is thought to have occurred in relative isolation.\n\nThere is evidence of a culture associated with Aleut speakers on the Eastern Aleutian Islands as early as 4,000 years ago followed by a gradual expansion westward over the next 1,500 years to the Near Islands. There is also evidence of another westward expansion about 1,000 year ago, which may explain the lack of obvious diversification among the Aleut dialects, with Eastern Aleut features having spread westward. This second westward expansion is characterized as a period of cultural affinity with southeastern Alaska and the Pacific Northwest Coast, which may explain linguistic features that Aleut shares with neighboring non-Eskimo languages, such as rules of plural formation.\n\nDue to colonization by Russian colonizers and traders in the 18th and 19th centuries, Aleut has a large portion of Russian loanwords. However, they do not affect the basic vocabulary and thus do not suggest undue influence on the language.\n\nWithin the Eastern group are the dialects of the Alaskan Peninsula, Unalaska, Belkofski, Akutan, the Pribilof Islands, Kashega and Nikolski. The Pribilof dialect has more living speakers than any other dialect of Aleut.\n\nThe Atkan grouping comprises the dialects of Atka and Bering Island.\n\nAttuan was a distinct dialect showing influence from both Atkan and Eastern Aleut. Copper Island Aleut (also called Medny Aleut) is a Russian-Attuan mixed language (Copper Island (, \"Medny\", \"Mednyj\") having been settled by Attuans). Despite the name, today Copper Island Aleut is spoken only on Bering Island, as Copper Islanders were evacuated there in 1969.\n\nAll dialects show lexical influence from Russian; Copper Island Aleut has also adopted many Russian inflectional endings.\n\nThe modern practical Aleut orthography was designed in 1972 for the Alaska school system's bilingual program:\n\nThe historic Aleut (Cyrillic) alphabet found in both Alaska and Russia has the standard pre-1918 Russian orthography as its basis, although a number of Russian letters were used only in loanwords. In addition, the extended Cyrillic letters: г̑ (г with inverted breve), ҟ, ҥ, ў, х̑ (х with inverted breve) were used to represent distinctly Aleut sounds.\n\nA total of 24+ letters were used to represent distinctly Aleut words, including 6 vowels (а, и, й, у, ю, я) and 16 consonants (г, г̑, д, з, к, ҟ, л, м, н, ҥ, с, т, ў, х, х̑, ч). The letter ҟ has been used in modern Aleut Cyrillic publications to denote the letter ԟ (Aleut Ka) traditionally used to mark the voiceless uvular plosive .\n\nThe modern Aleut orthography (for Bering dialect):\n\nThe consonant phonemes of the various Aleut dialects are represented below. Each cell indicates the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) representation of the phoneme; consonants existing only in loanwords are in parentheses. Note that some phonemes are unique to specific dialects of Aleut.\n\nThe palato-alveolar affricate and uvular stop are pronounced with strong aspiration.\n\nAttuan labial fricative is pronounced voiced or devoiced.\n\nVoiceless approximants and devoiced nasals are preaspirated. The preaspiration of approximants causes very little friction and may pronounced more as a breathy voice. The preaspiration of devoiced nasals starts with a voiceless airstream through the nose and may end voiced before a vowel. The preaspiration feature is represented orthographically with an <h> preceding the given sound. For example, a devoiced, preaspirated labial nasal would be written <hm>.\n\nVoiced approximants and nasals may be partly devoiced in contact with a voiceless consonant and at the end of a word.\n\nThe voiceless glottal approximant functions as an initial aspiration before a vowel. In Atkan and Attuan, the prevocalic aspiration contrasts with an audible but not written glottal stop initiation of the vowel. Compare \"halal\" (\"to turn the head\") and \"alal\" (\"to need\"). This contrast has been lost in Eastern Aleut.\n\nModern Eastern Aleut has a much simpler consonant inventory because the voice contrasts among nasals, sibilants and approximants has been lost.\n\nConsonants listed in the dental column have varied places of articulation. The stop, nasal, and lateral dentals commonly have a laminal articulation. The voiced dental fricative is pronounced interdentally.\n\nThe pronunciation of the sibilant varies from an alveolar articulation to a retracted articulation like a palato-alveolar consonant. There is no contrast between and ʃ in Aleut. Many Aleut speakers experience difficulties with this distinction while learning English.\n\nAleut has a basic three-vowel system including the high front , low , and high back . Aleut vowels contrast with their long counterparts , , and .\n\nNotably, Aleut is pronounced slightly lower than in the vowel space.\n\nThe long vowel is pronounced retracted in the vowel space creating a significant distinction relative to the vowel length of . The two high vowels are pronounced with the same vowel quality regardless of vowel length.\n\nIn contact with a uvular, is lowered to , is backed to , and is lowered to . In contact with a coronal, is raised to or , and is fronted to .\n\nThe mid-vowels and occur only in family names like \"Nevzorof\" and very recently introduced Russian loanwords.\n\n(C)(C)V(V) ± {C(C)(C)V(V)} ± C\n\nAn Aleut word may contain one to about a dozen syllables, all syllables with a vocalic nucleus. In Atkan and Attuan, there is a word-final CC due to apocopation. There also exist word initial CCC in loanwords.\n\nA word may begin or end in a vowel, both short and long, with few exceptions. Due to apocopation, short is not found in the final position. The same is true for short , except in some obsolete suffixes, such as -chi 'your' (pl.) which is realized as -chin and -chix in modern Eastern and Atkan Aleut.\n\nVowels within a word are separated by at least one consonant. All single consonants can appear in an intervocalic position, with the following exceptions:\nWords begin with any consonant except and preaspirated consonants (with the exception of the preaspirated in Atkan Aleut). Only in loanwords do , , and the borrowed consonants (\"p, b, f, t, d, g, ɹ/ɾ)\" appear word-initially.\n\nThe word-initial CC can take many forms, with various restrictions on the distribution of consonants:\nIntervocalic CC can occur in normal structure or as the result of syncopation.\n\nIn CC clusters of to voiced continuants, there is often a short transitional vowel. For example, qilĝix̂ 'umbilical cord' is pronounced [-lĝ-] similar to qiliĝi-n 'brain'.\n\nAlmost all possible combinations of coronal and postlingual consonants are attested.\n\nThe combination of two postlingual or two coronal consonants is rare, but attested, such as hux̂xix 'rain pants', aliĝngix̂ 'wolf', asliming 'fit for me', iistalix 'to say; to tell; to call'.\n\nIn CCC clusters, the middle consonant is either , , . For example, taxtxix̂ 'pulse', huxsx̂ilix 'to wrap up', chamchxix̂ 'short fishline'.\n\nThe most common single consonants to appear word-final are , , , , , and .\n\nThrough apocopation, word-final single consonants /l/ and occur, and word-final consonant clusters ending with or .\n\nThe details of the extensive syncopation characteristic of the Eastern Aleut dialect are described below. In the examples, the syncopated vowel will be shown in parentheses.\n\nA word medial short vowel may be syncopated between single consonants, except after an initial open short syllable and/or before a final open short syllable. For example, ìx̂am(a)nákux̂ 'it is good' and alqut(a)maan 'what for?'.\n\nThe syncopation often creates consonant clusters beyond those prescribed by the general rules of Aleut phonotactics. The resulting clusters include:\nIn some frequently encountered syncopated forms, which otherwise result in irregular three consonant clusters, the middle uvular fricative is deleted along with the preceding vowel. For example, (h)iis(ax̂)talix 'saying' and (h)iil(ax̂)talix 'being said'.\n\nAt slower speeds of speech, the syncopation may not be realized. Compare txin saakutikux̂txin 'you are getting skinny' beside ting saak(u)tikuqing 'I am getting skinny'.\n\nAleut stress is indeterminate and often difficult to define. Stress varies based on the relation to the beginning or end of the word form, the length of the vowels, the sonority of the consonants, open- or closeness of the syllables, or the number of syllables in sentential rhythm and intonation. Stress affects the length of both vowels and consonants. Stress underlies the distinctive syncopation characteristics of Eastern Aleut. In the following discussion, the acute accent (á) indicates the stronger stress and the grave accent (à) indicates the weaker.\n\nIn Eastern Aleut, stronger stress tends to fall on the penultimate syllable if it is short (has a short vowel), or on the last syllable if it is long (has a long vowel). The weaker stress commonly falls on the first syllable. For example, úlax̂ 'house', tùnúnax̂ 'talked', tùnulákan 'without talking', ìnaqáam 'he himself'.\n\nEastern Aleut words with more than two syllables exhibit a wider variety of stress patterns. Stress may be attracted to another syllable by a long vowel or relatively sonorant consonant, or by a closed syllable. It's possible the stress can be determined by rhythmic factors so that one word will have different stress in different contexts, such as áĝadax̂ compared to àĝádax̂, both meaning 'arrow'.\n\nIn Atkan and Attuan Aleut, stronger stress more commonly falls on the first syllable. However, long vowels, sonorants, etc. have similar effects on stress as in Eastern Aleut. For example, qánáang 'how many' vs qánang 'where'; ùĝálux̂ 'spear' vs álaĝux̂ 'sea'.\n\nStress may also be expressive, as with exclamations or polite requests. Stronger stress falls on the last syllable and is accompanied by a lengthening of a short vowel. For example, kúufyax̂ àqakúx̂\"! 'coffee is coming'. Similar structure for polite requests, qadá 'please eat!' vs qáda\" 'eat'.\n\nUnder ordinary strong stress, a short syllable tends to be lengthened, either by lengthening the vowel or geminating the following single consonant. Lengthening of the vowel is most common in Eastern, but is found in Atkan before a voiced consonant. In all dialects gemination is common between an initial stressed syllable with a short vowel and a following stressed syllable. For example, ìláan 'from him' pronounced and làkáayax̂ 'a boy' pronounced .\n\nThe following descriptions involve phonological processes that occur in connected speech.\n\nWord-final velar and uvular fricatives are voiceless when followed by a word-initial voiceless consonant and are voiced when followed by a word-initial voiced consonant or a vowel.\n\nWord-final nasals and are frequently deleted before an initial consonant other than . For example, tana(m) kugan 'on the ground' and ula(m) naga 'the interior of the house'.\n\nIn Eastern Aleut, the final vowel may be elided before or contracted with the initial vowel of the following word, as in aamg(ii) iĝanalix 'he is bleeding awfully'.\n\nIn Atkan, the final syllable of a word form may be clipped off in fast speech. This is even frequent at slow speed in certain constructions with auxiliary verbs. The result will be a sequence of vowels or full contraction:\n\nOpen word classes in Aleut include nouns and verbs, both derived from stems with suffixes. Many stems are ambivalent, being both nominal and verbal (see Derivation below). There are no adjectives other than verbal nouns and participles. Other word classes include pronouns, contrastives, quantifiers, numerals, positional nouns, demonstratives, and interrogatives.\n\nOrdinary nouns have suffixes for\n\nIn general, the Eastern plural suffix -(i)n has taken over the Atkan plural form.\n\nThe anaphoric third person refers to a proceeding term, specified by being marked in the relative case or from context. For example, tayaĝu-m ula-a 'the man's house' and ula-a 'his house'.\n\nAs free forms,the pronouns are used primarily as an object, like fully specified nouns. As enclitics they function as subject markers.\n\nPositional nouns indicate positional,directional, or some more abstract relation to a definite referent (a person or proceeding noun in relative case). Positional nouns have possessive suffixes but no inherent number.\n\nUnlike ordinary nouns, positional nouns have two adverbial cases: locative and/or ablative. The most important stem i-, called the dative, has only a locative form (largely irregular) meaning 'to, at, for-'.\n\nMost are used in absolutive case, as in ula-m agal-a agikux̂ 'he passed behind the house'. Can also be used in the relative case, as in laavki-m agal-a-n ula-a 'the house behind the store'.\n\nThe numeral system is decimal with hatix̂ 'ten' and sisax̂ 'hundred' as the basic higher terms. The higher tens numerals are derived through multiplication (eg. 2 x10 for 'twenty'). The multiplicative numerals are derived with the suffix -di-m on the base numeral followed by hatix̂ 'ten'. For example, qankudim hatix̂ 'forty'.\nVerbs differ from nouns morphologically by having mood/tense suffixes. Like nominal stems, verb stems may end in a short vowel or consonant. Many stems ending in a consonant had auxiliary vowels which have largely become part of the stem itself.\n\nNegation is sometimes suffixal, preceding or combining with the mood/tense suffix. In some cases the negation will be followed by the enclitic subject pronoun.\n\nThere exist 570 derivational suffixes (postbases) including many composite ones. About two thirds are found only in a small number of words. There exist approximately 175 more common suffixes.\n\nA postbase may be nominal or verbal, yielding nouns derived from nouns or verbs, or verbs derived from verbs or nouns, or from nominal phrases. Many stems are ambivalent, being either nominal or verbal and even some derivatives can be ambivalent.\n\nDifficulties distinguishing between nominal and verbal parts of speech arise because the parts of speech in Aleut are not easy to distinguish. A verbal stem may be used as a verbal predicate, and quite often as a noun. The verbal use of nouns is also very common.\n\nThe derivational suffixes may combine in strings of up to about six components, some belonging together to form composites. In sequences, each successive suffix often modifies the preceding string.\n\nThe majority of derivatives have a single stem that occurs also without the suffix(es) in question. While some stems are bound, only occurring with some derivational suffix. For example, compare iĝa-t- 'to scare, frighten' iĝa-x̂ta- 'to fear, be afraid of' iĝa-na- 'to be terrible, frightening'.\n\nMost Aleut words can be classified as nouns or verbs. Notions which in English are expressed by means of adjectives and adverbs are generally expressed in Aleut using verbs or postbases (derivational suffixes).\n\nAleut's canonical word order is subject object verb (SOV).\n\nNouns are obligatorily marked for grammatical number (singular, dual, or plural) and for absolutive case or relative case (some researchers, notably Anna Berge, dispute both the characterization of this feature as \"case\" and the names \"absolutive\" and \"relative\". This approach to Aleut nouns comes from Eskimo linguistics, but these terms can be misleading when applied to Aleut). The absolutive form is the default form, while the relative form communicates a relationship (such as possessive or contrastive) between the noun and another member of the sentence, possibly one that has been omitted. Absolutive and relative are identical in most combinations of person and number.\n\nIn possessive constructions, Aleut marks both possessor and possessum, with the possessor preceding the possessum:\n\nThe verbal predicate of a simple sentence of the final clause of a complex sentence carries the temporal and modal marking in relation to the speech act. Verbs of non-final clauses are marked in relation to the following clause. A complex sentence may contain an unlimited number of clauses.\n\nSimple sentences may include a subject or no subject. The predicate may be a verb with no complement, a predicate noun with a copula, or a verb with a preceding direct object in the absolutive case and/or an oblique term or local complement.\n\nThe number of arguments may be increased or decreased by verbal derivative suffixes. Arguments of a clause may be explicitly specified or anaphoric.\n\nThe verb of a simple sentence or final clause may have a nominal subject in the absolutive case or a 1st/2nd person subject marker. If the nominal subject is left out, as known from context, the verb implies an anaphoric reference to the subject:\n\nPositional nouns are a special, closed set of nouns which may take the locative or ablative noun cases; in these cases they behave essentially as postpositions. Morphosyntactically, positional noun phrases are almost identical to possessive phrases:\n\nVerbs are inflected for mood and, if finite, for person and number. Person/number endings agree with the subject of the verb if all nominal participants of a sentence are overt:\n\nIf a 3rd person complement or subordinate part of it is omitted, as known from context, there is an anaphoric suffixal reference to it in the final verb and the nominal subject is in the relative case:\n\nWhen more than one piece of information is omitted, the verb agrees with the element whose grammatical number is greatest. This can lead to ambiguity:\n\nAlthough Aleut derives from the same parent language as the Eskimo languages, the two language groups (Aleut and Eskimo) have evolved in distinct ways, resulting in significant typological differences. Aleut inflectional morphology is greatly reduced from the system that must have been present in Proto-Eskimo–Aleut, and where the Eskimo languages mark a verb's arguments morphologically, Aleut relies more heavily on a fixed word order.\n\nUnlike the Eskimo languages, Aleut is not an ergative-absolutive language. Subjects and objects in Aleut are not marked differently depending on the transitivity of the verb (i.e. whether the verb is transitive or intransitive); by default, both are marked with a so-called absolutive noun ending. However, if an understood complement (which may either be a complement of the verb or of some other element in the sentence) is absent, the verb takes an \"anaphoric\" marking and the subject noun takes a \"relative\" noun ending.\n\nA typological feature shared by Aleut and Eskimo is polysynthetic derivational morphology, which can lead to some rather long words:\n\nThe first contact of people from the Eastern Hemisphere with the Aleut language occurred in 1741, as Vitus Bering's expedition picked up place names and the names of the Aleut people they met. The first recording of the Aleut language in lexicon form appeared in a word list of the Unalaskan dialect compiled by Captain James King on Cook's voyage in 1778. At that time the Imperial Academy of Sciences in Saint Petersburg became interested in the Aleut language upon hearing of Russian expeditions for trading.\n\nIn Catherine the Great's project to compile a giant comparative dictionary on all the languages spoken in what was the spread of the Russian empire at that time, she hired Peter Simon Pallas to conduct the fieldwork that would collect linguistic information on Aleut. During an expedition from 1791 to 1792, Carl Heinrich Merck and Michael Rohbeck collected several word lists and conducted a census of the male population that included prebaptismal Aleut names. Explorer Yuriy Feodorovich Lisyansky compiled several word lists. in 1804 and 1805, the czar's plenipotentiary, Nikolai Petrovich Rezanov collected some more. Johann Christoph Adelung and Johann Severin Vater published their \"Mithridates oder allgemeine Sprachkunde 1806–1817\", which included Aleut among the languages it catalogued, similar to Catherine the Great's dictionary project.\n\nIt wasn't until 1819 that the first professional linguist, the Dane Rasmus Rask, studied Aleut. He collected words and paradigms from two speakers of Eastern Aleut dialects living in Saint Petersburg. In 1824 came the man who would revolutionize Aleut as a literary language. Ioann Veniaminov, a Russian Orthodox priest who would later become a saint, arrived at Unalaska studying Unalaskan Aleut. He created an orthography for this language (using the Cyrillic alphabet; the Roman alphabet would come later), translated the Gospel according to St. Matthew and several other religious works into Aleut, and published a grammar of Eastern Aleut in 1846.\n\nThe religious works were translated with the help of Veniaminov's friends Ivan Pan'kov (chief of Tigalda) and Iakov Netsvetov (the priest of Atka), both of whom were native Aleut speakers. Netsvetov also wrote a dictionary of Atkan Aleut. After Veniaminov's works were published, several religious figures took interest in studying and recording Aleut, which would help these Russian Orthodox clerics in their missionary work. Father Innocent Shayashnikov did much work in the Eastern Fox-Island dialect translating a Catechism, all four Gospels and Acts of Apostles from the New Testament, and an original composition in Aleut entitled: \"Short Rule for a Pious Life\".\n\nMost of these were published in 1902, although written years earlier in the 1860s and 1870s. Father Lavrentii Salamatov produced a Catechism, and translations of three of the four Gospels (St. Mark, St. Luke, St. John) in the Western-Atkan dialect. Of Father Lavrentii's work, the Gospel of St. Mark was published in a revised orthography (1959), and in its original, bilingual Russian-Aleut format (2007), together with his Catechism for the youth of Atka Island (2007). The Atkan-dialect Gospel of St. John was also electronically published (2008), along with the Gospel of St. Luke (2009) in the original bilingual format, completing the set of Fr. Lavrentii's biblical translations.\n\nThe first Frenchman to record Aleut was Alphonse Pinart, in 1871, shortly after the United States purchase of Alaska. A French-Aleut grammar was also produced by Victor Henry, entitled \"Esquisse d'une grammaire raisonnee de la langue aleoute d'apres la grammaire et le vocabulaire de Ivan Veniaminov\" (Paris, 1879). In 1878, American Lucien M. Turner began work on collecting words for a word list. Benedykt Dybowski, a Pole, began taking word lists from the dialects the Commander Islands in 1881, while Nikolai Vasilyevich Slyunin, a Russian doctor, did the same in 1892.\n\nFrom 1909 to 1910, the ethnologist Waldemar Jochelson traveled to the Aleut communities of Unalaska, Atka, Attu and Nikolski. He spent nineteen months there doing fieldwork. Jochelson collected his ethnographic work with the help of two Unalaskan speakers, Aleksey Yachmenev and Leontiy Sivstov. He recorded many Aleut stories, folklore and myth, and had many of them not only written down but also recorded in audio. Jochelson discovered much vocabulary and grammar when he was there, adding to the scientific knowledge of the Aleut language.\n\nIn the 1930s, two native Aleuts wrote down works that are considered breakthroughs in the use of Aleut as a literary language. Afinogen K. Ermeloff wrote down a literary account of a shipwreck in his native language, while Ardelion G. Ermeloff kept a diary in Aleut during the decade. At the same time, linguist Melville Jacobs picked up several new texts from Sergey Golley, an Atkan speaker who was hospitalized at the time.\n\nJohn P. Harrington furthered research into the Pribilof Island dialect on St. Paul Island in 1941, collecting some new vocabulary along the way. In 1944, the United States Department of the Interior published \"The Aleut Language\" as part of the war effort, allowing World War II soldiers to understand the language of the Aleuts. This English language project was based on Veniaminov's work.\n\nIn 1950, Knut Bergsland began an extensive study of Aleut, perhaps the most rigorous to date, culminating in the publication of a complete Aleut dictionary in 1994 and a descriptive grammar in 1997. Bergsland's work would not have been possible without key Aleut collaborators, especially Atkan linguist Moses Dirks.\n\nMichael Krauss, Jeff Leer, Michael Fortescue, and Jerrold Sadock have published articles about Aleut.\n\nAlice Taff has worked on Aleut since the 1970s. Her work constitutes the most detailed accounts of Aleut phonetics and phonology available.\n\nAnna Berge conducts research on Aleut. Berge's work includes treatments of Aleut discourse structure and morphosyntax, and curricular materials for Aleut, including a conversational grammar of the Atkan dialect, co-authored with Moses Dirks.\n\nIn 2005, the parish of All Saints of North America Orthodox Church, began to re-publish all historic Aleut language texts from 1840–1940. Archpriest Paul Merculief (originally from the Pribilofs) of the Russian Orthodox Diocese of Alaska and the Alaska State Library Historical Collection generously contributed their linguistic skills to the restoration effort. The historic Aleut texts are available on the parish's Aleut library.\n\nRevitalization efforts are a recent development for the Aleut language and are mostly in the hands of the Aleuts themselves. The first evidence of the preservation of the language came in the form of written documentation at the hands of the Russian Orthodox Church missionaries. However, as the historical events and factors transpired, Aleut's falling out of favor has brought upon a necessity for action if the language is to survive much longer. Linguistic experts have been reaching out to the Aleut community in attempts to record and document the language from the remaining speakers. Such efforts amount to \"100 hours of conversation, along with the transcription and translation in Aleut, that will be transferred to compact disks or DVDs\". If Aleut does go extinct, these records will allow linguists and descendants of the Aleutian people to pass on as much knowledge of the language as they can. Efforts like this to save the language are being sponsored by universities and local community interest groups, like the Aleutian/Pribilof Islands Association Task Force for Language Revitalization, while government relations with the Aleut people are severely limited. Similarly to the native languages of California, the native languages of Alaska had been given little attention from the United States government. While linguists are working to record and document the language, the local Aleutian community groups are striving to preserve their language and culture by assisting the linguists and raising awareness of the Aleut population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30970163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30970163", "title": "Apinayé language", "text": "Apinayé language\n\nApinayé (otherwise known as Apinajé, Afotigé, Aogé, Apinagé, Otogé, Oupinagee, Pinagé, Pinaré, Uhitische, Utinsche, and Western Timbira) is a Subject–object–verb Jê language spoken in Tocantins, Eastern Central Brazil by some 2277 speakers of Apinajé people according to the most recent census taken by SIASI/SESAI in 2014. There are thirteen villages that speak the Apinayé language. The biggest and oldest villages include São José and Mariazinha; and the smaller villages are Cocalinho, Patizal, Buriti Comprido, Palmeiras, Prata, Cocal Grande, Serrinha, Botica, Riachinho, Bonito and Brejão.\nEthnologue considers Apinayé \"developing,\" with a rating of 5 on the Expanded Graded Intergenerational Disruption Scale (EGIDS). It can be hypothesized that language transmission is high, since Apinayé was ranked as a threatened language in the past 10 years, but presently it is no longer at that level.\n\nBefore the 20th century, there used to be three main Apinayé groups known as the Rõrkojoire, the Cocojoire, and the Krĩjobreire. Each had their own land and political division, which totaled more than half of the current territory. Currently, the three distinct Apinayé groups have been living together, though São José is controlled by the Krĩjobreire, and Mariazinha has Cocojoire leadership. During the first quarter of the nineteenth century the Apinayé had a successful economic growth fueled by extensive cattle farming and the extraction of babaù palm oil which brought an increase in migration. The land rights of the Apinayé have been recognized by the federal government of Brazil in the 1988 Constitution.\n\nThe Apinayé indigenous population has had contacts with the Jesuits, military bands and explorers, which is similar to the experiences of other indigenous groups. Between 1633 and 1658, the Jesuits journeyed up the Tocantins River in order to “[persuade] the Indians to ‘descend’ the river to the villages of Pará”. This ushered in the potential of further encounters. On one of his expeditions, Captain-General D. Luiz Mascarenhas was confronted by “war-like” people, the Apinayé, in 1740. Another confrontation between the Portuguese settlers and the Apinayé occurred in 1774 when Antônio Luiz Tavares Lisboa and his band of explorers were traveling by way of the Tocantins River. These early contacts did not greatly disrupt the lifestyle of the Apinayé people. It was not until the 19th century that the indigenous group would suffer from colonization. This was due to the shrinking of their territory and population reduction in the face of settlement establishment by the Portuguese. Da Matta (1982) believes that the Apinayé were saved from extinction mainly due to the fact that the area they were situated in did not have true economic value.\n\nDuring the initial colonization period, the Apinayé had been recorded as being hostile to European expeditions. This prompted the construction of the military post of Alcobaça in 1780. However, it was soon abandoned due to the successful raids of the Apinayé. This only prompted further fortifications. In 1791 “another military post was founded on the Arapary river” and the same occurred in 1797 with the construction of the post of São João das Duas Barras. Regardless of previous conflicts, the Apinayé participated in the War for Independence of 1823 after sending “250 warriors to join the troops of José Dias de Mattos”. The most recent area of conflict was during the construction of the Trans-Amazon highway in 1985, which was supposed to be built over indigenous land. With the support of Krahô, Xerente, Xavante, and Kayapó warriors, the Apinayé had their lands recognized by the Brazilian state and the route of the highway was altered to avoid passing through this indigenous territory.\n\nSchools existed in the area of the Apinayé as early as the early 19th century, however it is unclear if their purpose was for the indigenous group or the general settler population. The first instructional materials for the Apinayé language were organized by the missionaries of the Summer Institute for Linguistics, in this particular case, Missionary Patricia Ham. Governmental support for indigenous schools was established as part of the 1988 Constitution. The current school system of the Apinayé shows that children start to learn in their native language up to the 4th grade, when Portuguese is introduced. The schools are run by the Apinayé community, with some teaching staff that comprises non-indigenous instructors and assistants. These schools further support the hypothesis that transmission rates are high; children are monolingual until they reach an age when they can start learning another language, leading to the majority of the population as being bilingual. It seems like the Apinayé language is still an important part of the culture of the group, and therefore has the ability to continue thriving.\n\nThe Jê family is the largest language family in the Macro-Jê stock. It contains eight languages, some of which have many dialects within them. The languages of this family are concentrated mostly in “the savanna regions of Brazil from the southern parts of the states of Pará and Maranhão south to Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul”. Unfortunately, many other languages in the Macro-Jê stock have become extinct, because their East coast location meant for the first contact with Europeans, which, as written above, was violent and detrimental to many indigenous communities.\n\nA descriptive grammar of this language exists, written by researcher Christiane Cunha de Oliveira in her dissertation “The Language of the Apinajé People of Central Brazil”. Oliveira provides an extensive description and analysis of the phonology, morphology, and syntax of Apinayé. Other linguists have also contributed to the descriptive grammar of the language, including Callow’s 1962 paper discussing word order; Burgess and Ham’s phonological analysis including topics like consonant to vowel ratio, tone, and inventories of the different sounds of the language; and Callow’s 1962 analysis of nominal categories and Ham et al.’s 1979 analysis of verbal categories.\n\nPedagogical grammars have been created for use in a bilingual classroom setting, with the intention of teaching both national culture and indigenous culture to young students. Sousa et al.’s “Apinajé Intercultural Bilingual School: For an Education Beyond the Ethnic Frontier” discusses this process in depth, and examines the value of having an Apinayé pedagogical grammar in the classroom. There is an intrinsic link between language and culture, and learning the Apinayé language helps children build a stronger connection with both their indigenous culture and the national culture of Brazil. It also is perhaps part of the reason that this language currently holds the status of “developing” on the EGID scale as mentioned above, as transmission of a language to children of the culture is vital to its survival.\n\nIn the Acknowledgements section of “The Language of the Apinajé People of Central Brazil”, Oliveira thanks the Fundação Nacional do Índio (FUNAI) for assistance with the documentation needed for the research. Therefore, the Apinayé language has been part of a small documentation project, to provide the research necessary for this dissertation and descriptive grammar. Otherwise, documentation projects for this language are unavailable.\n\nThe most recent ethnographic study done on the Apinayé people is from 2017, where the education system is analyzed (Sousa et al.). The most prominent ethnography of the Apinayé language and people is Oliveira’s thesis dissertation (2005). This was preceded by Da Matta’s work (1982) which explores Apinayé customs and traditions. Curt Niumendajú was a German anthropologist and ethnologist who wrote The Apinayé (1939). The book is based on the social structure of the indigenous group, though it also includes minimal information regarding the linguistic formation of the Apinayé language.\n\nThe consonant and vowel inventory follows.\n\nJust as in Mebengokre, there are underlying nasal vowels which surface independent of the nasal consonants.\n\nThe onset is optional in Apinayé, but when it exists it may be any consonant from the inventory. C1C2V(C)-type syllables, where C2 is a voiced [+cont] semivowel or liquid are very common. CCC onsets are always or \n\nAll consonants other than are permitted in the coda. Note also that the possible syllable types are identical to what we find in Mebengokre, except for those in which there are -initial complex onsets.\n\nChristiane Cunha de Oliveira wrote her PhD dissertation on the language of Apinayé (2005). She covers a wide range of morphological topics, which include lexical categories such as nouns, verbs, and postpositions. In the ‘nouns’ section, Oliveira discusses compound nouns and derived nouns in the Apinayé language. Inflection occurs on verbs, in accordance with person, constituency and nonfiniteness. Postpositions inflect for person, if there is a lack of an overt dependent noun phrase.\n\nIn Apinayé, there are personal pronouns for the first, second and third persons; which generally occupy the second position in a main clause. The first person pronoun “includes the hortative and plural inclusive distinctions”; other clitics are used to differentiate number distinctions. Pronouns occur in the realis and the irrealis modes: \nBased on the information available, it can be postulated that these are both subject and object pronominal forms. In pragmatically unmarked use, the pronoun works within a clitic sequence, where the mood marker is in the first position and potentially a tense/aspect clitic that is stressed in the group. Phonological words are part of these sequences of clitics. In this instance, the pronouns do not carry stress; voice alteration is based on plosives occurring in the pronouns. For example: \n\nIn pragmatically marked use, a token of the pronoun precedes the sequence clause initially. Therefore, when the pronoun is stressed, the plosives are voiceless. This applies only to the realis form of pronouns:\n\nWhat is interesting about Apinayé is that numerous grammatical categories are expressed by positional, phrasal and word clitics. Clitics are used to distinguish between realis and irrealis mood in the language. The marker \"na\" is used to denote realis clauses; whereas irrealis clauses are indicated by the marker \"kɔt\". The realis domain includes present, past, and habitual postpositions. The irrealis domain represents future, hypothetical, counterfactual, and conditional postpositions. Examples follow below:\n\nRealis:\n\nIrrealis:\n\nReduplication is a process that occurs in Apinayé. In terms of verbs, it is generally used to describe concepts, such as colours, onomatopoeic sounds; iterative, repetitive, or progressive events; and events that depict fragmentation (like ‘shatter’). Some examples are listed below:\n\nThis strategy reproduces the first foot right-to-left of the original stem. The majority of closed syllables lose their coda under these conditions. However that is not always the case. Reduplication does not only occur in verb stems, but also noun stems in some cases; though this occurs when reduplicated verbs convert into nouns, or they are compounds that include reduplicated verbal stems.\n\nSome of the syntactic processes of Apinayé are the valency changing operations of causativization. There are two ways of expressing causativization: periphrastic construction and morphological construction.\n\nThe function of periphrastic construction is encoding indirect causation; the construction \"ɔ anẽ\" denotes the clause, while the result is in another clause. Furthermore, the clause which encodes the result functions as a different-subject clause in relation to the clause that expresses causation. For example:\n\nThis example shows that the two clauses share an argument; “the object of \"ɔ anẽ\" ‘do thus’ is coreferential with the causee”, shown by the independent pronoun at the beginning of the result clause.\n\nThe example below will illustrate an alternative situation:\n\nThe particle \"nẽ\" occurs between the two clauses. The introduction of the conjunction postulates that “the clauses expressing cause and result are not as formally bound to each other” as in the previous example. Both clauses are under the scope of the modality marker, therefore it is a confirmation that they constitute a single sentence. Furthermore, this example differs with the previous ones due to causation; while the causers are animate beings for both examples, the second case shows that the causer is unaware of its actions, whereas the previous example has intentional causes.\n\nThe third syntactic pattern is the following:\n\nThe inclusion of the modality marker \"na\" in the second clause “suggests that cause and result are expressed by two independent sentences”. However, the consultant of Oliveira noted that such constructions are odd, possibly because the higher agent is an event rather than a participant, and are only found in elicitation situations.\n\nThe morphological causative is distinguished by the marker \"ɔ\", which is preposed to the lexical verb of a clause. The marker is not a prefix to the verb, and may be labeled as a compound, since no other elements can exist between the two morphemes. This causativization applies only to monovalent verbs. For example:\n\nThe morphological causative focuses on the effect of the cause in the causal chain. Here, the causee “is affected by the agent/causer; thus, the causee is expressed simply as the patient argument of the verb derived with the causative morpheme \"ɔ\"”. Furthermore, “the lexical verb shares an argument with \"ɔ\" and that the latter has a very generic meaning makes it easier for \"ɔ\" to become reinterpreted as belonging to a distinct category − a derivational morpheme, in the case at hand − than for the lexical verb to be reinterpreted as a manner adverb”.\n\nThe establishment of the new function for \"ɔ\" as a morphological causative is “effected by the generalization in the usage of the construction”. The examples below, in which inanimate participants occupy the position of the higher agent, illustrate this:\n\nIn Apinayé number distinguishes between singular, dual, and plural categories for nouns and verbs. These are expressed by positional clitics: \"wa\" (dual) and \"mɛ\" (plural) which occur before nouns and verbs. The number clitics occur after the usage of person pronouns:\n\nThe plural clitic mɛ can be a noun modifier, the dual clitic \"wa\" is not: \n\nThe plural and dual markers can also be used in compounding. An example is when they “combine with the indefinite article \"õ\" to form the indefinite pronouns \"mɛʔõ\" ‘someone’ and \"waʔõ\" ‘someone’”.\n\nIn Apinayé, the quantifiers \"wa\" ‘dual’ and \"me\" ‘plural’ are positional clitics as well, and have the same distribution when it comes to person prefixes, as with full nouns; the clitics occur before:\n\nWith free pronouns, the clitics occur after:\n\nThe plural and dual clitics may co-occur with a postposition that is inflected for person. The quantifier clitic is modifying the person prefix attached to the postposition, and occurs in front of it. When it comes to the third person, the majority of postpositions take a zero prefix, though there are some irregular forms. Such examples follow below:\n\n"}
{"id": "29100154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29100154", "title": "Arse Elektronika", "text": "Arse Elektronika\n\nArse Elektronika is an annual conference organized by the Austrian arts and philosophy collective monochrom, focused on sex and technology. The festival presents talks, workshops, machines, presentations and films. The festival's curator is Johannes Grenzfurthner. Between 2007 and 2015, the event was held in San Francisco, but monochrom wants to move the event to Europe.\n\nThe name Arse Elektronika is a pun on Ars Electronica, the name of an arts and technology organization also based in Austria.\n\nSpeakers at past conferences have included Violet Blue, Mark Dery, Richard Kadrey, Annalee Newitz, Carol Queen, Susie Bright and Rudy Rucker, with demonstrations by Kyle Machulis of the blog Slashdong; Heather Kelley; Allen Stein of Thrillhammer; and other engineers of the pornographic website \"Fucking Machines\".\n\n\nIn April 2010, the first Arse Elektronika exhibition \"Techno(sexual) Bodies\" was presented at Videotage in the city of Hong Kong; it was curated by Johannes Grenzfurthner and Isaac Leung.\n\n\"pr0nnovation? Pornography and Technological Innovation\" (Arse Elektronika Anthology #1)\n\n\"Do Androids Sleep with Electric Sheep? Critical Perspectives on Sexuality and Pornography in Science and Social Fiction\" (Arse Elektronika Anthology #2)\n\n\"Of Intercourse and Intracourse – Sexuality, Biomodification and the Techno-Social Sphere\" (Arse Elektronika Anthology #3)\n\n\"Screw The System – Explorations of Spaces, Games and Politics through Sexuality and Technology\" (Arse Elektronika Anthology #4)\n\n"}
{"id": "43398069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43398069", "title": "Azerbaijani ethnic groups", "text": "Azerbaijani ethnic groups\n\nThere are several Azerbaijani ethnic groups, each of which has particularities in the economy, culture and everyday life. Some Azerbaijani ethnic groups continued in the last quarter of the 19th century.\nMajor Azerbaijani ethnic groups:\n"}
{"id": "35924526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35924526", "title": "Basque festival", "text": "Basque festival\n\nBasque festival, also known as Euskal jaiak, is a festival celebrating Basque culture showing Basque dance and other elements of the Basque folklore. Basque festivals are organized in the United States of America in towns with an important population of Basque descendants, such as Reno, Boise and Winnemucca. Similar festivals are celebrated in Argentina and other countries where Basque diaspora is set. Basque festivals are also celebrated in the Basque Country: \"Euskal Jaiak\" celebrations in September in Donostia and Zarautz are famous.\n\nEarly examples of Basque festivals date from the late 19th century, when the Lore Jokoak, or Basque Floral Games came into being in French-Spanish bordering areas of Navarre, Labourd, and Gipuzkoa, fostered and encouraged by Antoine d'Abbadie and other cultural figures. \n"}
{"id": "7523960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7523960", "title": "Berber carpet", "text": "Berber carpet\n\nBerber carpets are carpets hand-woven by the Berber autochthones in North Africa and the Sahara. The carpets come in traditional and modern designs, which are distinguished by different knotting patterns, dyes and fabric textures.\n\nThe origin carpet weaving by the Berber populations dates back several millennia. The hand spun cloth they created was named for the individual tribe, and they used natural fibers to create cloaks, rugs, and other fabrics.\n\nModern industrialized Berber carpets are distinguished by a loop pile construction type that gives a similar appearance to the distinct knot of traditionally woven Berber carpets. The modern carpets usually contain small flecks of dark color on lighter shades of background colors resembling a natural undyed version of the traditional carpets. They generally consist of a plain color mix with no pattern, and are relatively cheap and durable. Popular for areas with significantly heavy use such as offices. The distinctive knot texture and appearance of traditional hand-woven Berber carpets today are generally woven in brightly colored designs that are different from other oriental rugs.\n\nHandmade and usually homemade Berber carpets are still an active industry in many rural areas of Berber countries. Many Berber families earn their primary income from building-up carpets manually and selling them in local markets, merchants and tourists. Traditional Berber carpets differ from modern mass-produced Berber carpets that are usually found in industrialized markets. They often employ cultural designs and are typically made of natural materials\n\nToday, there are numerous types of modern Berber carpet made from a wide variety of materials, Nylon, Olefin fiber, and wool are the most frequently used materials, Except Tunisian Berber carpets and rugs usually called “Mergoum” which still preserve a know how inherited from ancestral weaving methods. Tunisian authorities are still controlling every piece to guarantee quality and that 'Berber' spirit in designs, patterns and symbols knotted so only wool is permitted with a total ban of any synthetic material, then each rug or carpet is sealed with a red wax sign (of Tunisian handicrafts authorities).\n\nIn other countries Olefin is the most frequently used and most affordable material, and carpets with blends of the different materials are also available.\n\nBerber carpet is highly durable and is often found in offices, schools, and other high traffic areas. It is stain resistant as well, and is generally more affordable than thicker plush carpets. To care about it is recommended by most professionals that Moroccan Olefin Berber should be cleaned using a low-moisture or dry cleaning process. Traditional steam cleaning with high alkaline detergents can cause potential pH burns in the olefin. These appear as large yellow or brown splotches. Yellow or brown spots also may be tannin bleed from the sugars in natural fiber carpets that are drawn to the top by improper drying usually caused by over wetting. There are carpet chemicals that can remove most of this yellowing or browning but they are very expensive, and it would be better to not get the yellowing or browning. A better, but more difficult, method may be to dry the carpet from the bottom. This method would generally require lifting up some of the carpet to install a carpet fan under the carpet, and using hot air, not just room temperature air. Regrettably, many of these stains can be permanent if not corrected immediately by a professional carpet cleaner. As with all carpets, Berber should be cleaned every 6 to 12 months to prevent permanent wear patterns.\n\n"}
{"id": "2711957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2711957", "title": "Biala (Hasidic dynasty)", "text": "Biala (Hasidic dynasty)\n\nBiala (or Byala, Biale) Hasidic dynasty has its roots in Poland. The Rebbes of Biala are descended from Rabbi Yaakov Yitzchak Rabinowicz, known as the \"Yid Hakodosh\" (\"The Holy Jew\").\n\nThe Biala dynasty is part of the Prshiskhe dynasty whose first rebbe was Rabbi Yaakov Yitzchok (the Holy Jew) of Prshiskhe (today Przysucha, Poland), a disciple of Rabbi Yaakov Yitzchak of Lublin (the Seer of Lublin). The Seer was a disciple of Rabbi Elimelech of Lizhensk, who was a disciple of Rabbi Dov Ber of Mezeritch (the Maggid of Mezritch), the leading disciple of the Baal Shem Tov, the founder of Hasidism.\n\nRabbi Yechiel Yehoshua was six years old when his father, the Rebbe of Siedlce, died as a young man. The Hasidim, bereft of their rebbe, mostly became followers of their late rebbe's brother, the Mezritsher Rebbe. It was he who educated his young nephew Yechiel Yehoshua in the ways of Torah and Hasidus. In 1924 the surviving Shedlitser Hasidim accepted Rabbi Yechiel Yehoshua as their rebbe. In time his name spread over Poland and the numbers of his Hasidim grew.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II, the Germans overran Poland. Rabbi Yechiel Yehoshua managed to escape to the Russian-controlled zone, from which he was exiled to Siberia. Jews who survived the Siberian work camps testified that the Rebbe was the one who kept their spirit alive. In 1947 he immigrated to Mandatory Palestine and settled in Tel Aviv. He was in the forefront of activity to maintain adherence to traditional Judaism amongst the masses. He was one of the founders of the Chinuch Atzmai educational network, and he served on the Moetzes Gedolei HaTorah.He died on the 21st of Shvat 1982 and was buried in the Polish admorim section on the Mount of Olives.\n\nGrand Rabbi Yerachmiel Tzvi Yehudah Rabinowicz was known as the Biala-Peshischa Rebbe (1923–2003). Born in 1923, he was the first-born son of the previous Biala Rebbe, known as the \"Chelkas Yehoshua\". He became Rebbe after his father died in 1982 and opened his yeshiva in the Har Nof section of Jerusalem. He was succeeded by his sons.\n\nFollowing the death of Yerachmiel Tzvi, one of his sons, Rabbi M. Rabinowicz, became Biala-Prshiskhe Rav of Har Nof. His eldest son, Rabbi Elimelech Rabinowicz, became the Biala Prshiskhe Rebbe of Haifa. One of his sons is Rabbi Simchah Ben Zion Isaac Rabinowicz, the author of \"Piskei Tshuvos\", a popular commentary on the Jewish legal classic \"Mishneh Brurah\".\n\nRabbi David Matisyahu Rabinowicz was Biala Rebbe in Bnei Brak, Israel. He authored \"Lehavas Dovid\". He was well known for his warm prayers and his self-sacrifice for serving God. He travelled around the world to spread Hassidic teachings. He was commissioned by his father to open yeshivot around the Holy Land. His father called him \"nekudas libi\", the \"focus of my heart\". He died in 1997.\n\nRabbi Dovid Matisyahu of Biala had two daughters from his first wife, the daughter of Rabbi Shedrowitzsky, who died at a young age, and five sons from his second wife, the daughter of Rabbi Berkowitz, who survives him and presently resides in Bnei Brak. One of his sons-in-law and four of his sons succeeded him as Rebbe.\n\nRabbi Yaakov Yitzchak Rabinowicz, son of Rabbi Yechiel Yehoshua Rabinowicz, was the Biala Rebbe of the Ramat Aharon section of Bnei Brak, Israel. He died in 2010 and was succeeded by his son, Rabbi Tzvi Rabinowicz, the present Biala Rebbe of Ramat Aharon.\n\nRabbi Ben-Zion Rabinowicz of Biala was born in Poland on January 30, 1935. He is the youngest son of Rabbi Yechiel Yehoshua of Biala. During the Nazi invasion of Poland in 1939, his father who was not yet the Rebbe, was caught whilst trying to escape to his brother in London and was sent to Siberia by the Russians. Ben-zion and his sister escaped with many other children across Europe eastwards into Russia and then down into Iran (Persia). They were eventually brought to the Holy Land by Zionists, who were saving Jewish children from starvation and disease in Iran, and bringing them to the Holy Land. The Ponevezher Rov — Rabbi Yosef Kahaneman — heard that there were some special children in this group from Poland, descended from famous Rebbes. He removed the young Rebbe-to-be and his sister from the care of the secular Zionists. After the war their father made it to Palestine and was reunited with his children. Rabbi Ben Zion married Rebetzin Beila Brocho Babad, daughter of Rabbi Avrohom Moshe Babad, ABD Sunderland. He learned in the Ponevezh yeshiva in Bnei Brak, and in the Gateshead Talmudical College in England.\n\nHe became Rabbi of Lugano, Switzerland, in 1980. He became Rebbe in 1981 upon the death of his father, as did his brothers. His first wife died in 1995, and in 1998 the Rebbe remarried the widow Rebbetzin Steinwurtzel, the mother-in-law of the present Karlin-Stolin Rebbe. In addition to his position as the Rabbi of Lugano, the Rebbe spends much time in Jerusalem and Safed, where he has synagogues.\n\nIn Safed the Rebbe began a congregation in the old Kosover Synagogue. He does a lot of work helping to teach unaffiliated Jews learn about their Jewish heritage.\n\nThe Rebbe \"Shlita\" is the author of an extensive body of Torah literature, including both Hasidic discourses and Talmudic commentaries, of which over thirty volumes have been published in Hebrew. These include the Rebbe's own works, \"Mevaser Tov\", as well as compete \"seforim\" and \"maamarim\" that appear in the numerous works of published literature from the entire house of Biala. \"Techias HaMeisim\" is the third book by the Rebbe to have been translated into English, alongside \"The Merit of the Righteous Women\" and \"The Reward of the Righteous Women.\"\n\nGrand Rabbi Wolf Kornreich of Shidlovtze is the son-in-law of Grand Rabbi David Mattisyahu Rabinowitz of Biala. He was very close with Grand Rabbi Yechiel Yehoshua Rabinowitz of Biala. He has a growing following in Jerusalem.\n\nHe found the lost tomb of Grand Rabbi Nathan David Rabinowitz of Shidlovtze and commissioned the building of a new \"ohel\" which now marks the grave.\n\nAfter the death of his father, Rabbi Dovid Matisyohu, Rabbi Yaakov Menachem Rabinovich took upon himself the responsibility of guiding the followers of his late father. As he was a prominent Talmid Chochom [Torah scholar] and experienced counselor, even while his father was alive, he became the successor Biala rebbe. Already active in outreach programs for others in the USA who lack understanding and knowledge of their Jewish roots and traditions, he has already made a name for himself in many Jewish communities in the US where his yearly visits are attended by hundreds who seek his blessing, counsel and advice.\n\nGrand Rabbi Avraham Yerachmiel Rabinowicz is another son of Grand Rabbi Dovid Matisyohu. The Rebbe runs a yeshiva where students come to learn at all hours of the day and night. Through the yeshiva, he supports over 100 families with food, Jewish education, emotional support, guidance, and counseling. The yeshiva also serves as a full service synagogue with daily prayers, Shabbat and holiday services. The Rebbe has been often called “the miracle worker” because of his gift of successful spiritual advice, blessings, and the high level of prayer he provides for everybody who comes to see him. He recently opened a synagogue in the Upper East Side neighborhood of Manhattan. \n\nGrand Rabbi Aaron Shlomo Chaim Eleazar Rabinowicz, the Bialer Rebbe of America, was born in Bnei Brak. He is the son-in-law of the Dezher Rebbe of Boro Park. His chasidic court is located in the Boro Park section of Brooklyn, NY. He was appointed by his father to be the Biala Rebbe in America after his father's death. He also has two synagogues in Israel, in Beitar Illit and in Jerusalem, and he spends much time there, as well as a synagogue in North Miami Beach, Florida.\nHe has published a biography of his father and grandfather in Yiddish entitled \"Der Heyliger Rebbi fun Biala: Tiferes Avos\". He has also re-published several books from the Biala dynasty: \"Sefer Divrei Binah\" and \"Yishrei Lev\" by the first Bialer Rebbe, with indexes and, recently, an English-Hebrew edition of \"Sefer Seder HaYom\" by his grandfather, the \"Chelkas Yehoshua\", which was translated by Rabbi Joseph Kolakowski.\n\n\nA translation of \"Seder HaYom\" into English has been published by the Biala Rebbe of America. The version of the prayer-book used by Biala Hasidim is called \"Siddur Chelkas Yehoshua\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18847190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18847190", "title": "Bulgarian Federation of Radio Amateurs", "text": "Bulgarian Federation of Radio Amateurs\n\nThe Bulgarian Federation of Radio Amateurs (in Bulgarian, Българската федерация на радиолюбителите) is a national non-profit organization for amateur radio enthusiasts in Bulgaria. The organization uses BFRA as its standard abbreviation, based on the standard Romanization of the Bulgarian name of the organization. \n\nKey membership benefits of the BFRA include the sponsorship of amateur radio operating awards, radio contests, and a QSL bureau for members who regularly communicate with amateur radio operators in other countries. BFRA represents the interests of Bulgarian amateur radio operators before Bulgarian and international telecommunications regulatory authorities.\n\nBFRA is the national member society representing Bulgaria in the International Amateur Radio Union. BFRA was the host organization for the 2006 Amateur Radio Direction Finding World Championships.\n\n"}
{"id": "20306411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20306411", "title": "Business semantics management", "text": "Business semantics management\n\nBusiness Semantics Management \n\nBSM is established by two complementary process cycles each grouping a number of activities. The first cycle is the semantic reconciliation cycle, and the second cycle is the semantic application cycle. The two cycles are tied together by the unification process. This double process cycle is iteratively applied until an optimal balance of differences and commonalities between stakeholders are reached that meets the semantic integration requirements. This approach is based on research on community-based ontology engineering () that is validated in European projects, government and industry.\n\nSemantic reconciliation is a process cycle constituted of four subsequent activities: scope, create, refine, and articulate. First, the community is scoped: user roles and affordances are appointed. Next, relevant facts are collected from documentation such as, e.g., natural language descriptions, (legacy) logical schemas, or other metadata and consequently decomposing this scope in elicitation contexts. The deliverable of scoping is an initial upper common ontology that organizes the key upper common patterns that are shared and accepted by the community. These upper common patterns define the current semantic interoperability requirements of the community. Once the community is scoped, all stakeholders syntactically refine and semantically articulate these upper common patterns.\n\nDuring unification, a new proposal for the next version of the upper common ontology is produced, aligning relevant parts from the common and divergent stakeholder perspectives. If the semantic reconciliation results in a number of reusable language-neutral and context-independent patterns for constructing business semantics that are articulated with informal meaning descriptions, then the unification is worthwhile.\n\nSemantic application is a process cycle constituted of two subsequent activities: select and commit where the scoped information systems are committed to selected consolidated business semantic patterns. This is done by first selecting relevant patterns from the pattern base. Next, the interpretation of this selection is semantically constrained. Finally, the various scoped sources and services are mapped on (read: committed to) this selection. The selection and axiomatization of this selection should approximate the intended business semantics. This can be verified by automatically verbalization into natural language, and validation of the unlocked data. Validation or deprecation of the commitments may result in another iteration of the semantic reconciliation cycle.\n\nBusiness semantics are the information concepts that live in the organization, understandable for both business and IT. Business Semantics describe the business concepts as they are used and needed by the business instead of describing the information from a technical point of view.\n\nOne important aspect of business semantics is that they are shared between many disparate data sources. Many data sources share the same semantics but have different syntax, or format to describe the same concepts.\n\nThe way these business semantics are described is less important. Several approaches can be used such as UML, object-role modeling, XML, etc. This corresponds to Robert Meersman’s statement that semantics are \"a (set of) mapping(s) from your representation language to agreed concepts (objects, relationships, behavior) in the real-world\".\nIn the construction of information systems, semantics have always been crucial. In previous approaches, these semantics were left implicit (i.e. In the mind of reader or writer), hidden away in the implementation itself (e.g., in a database table or column code) or informally captured in textual documentation. According to Dave McComb, \"The scale and scope of our systems and the amount of information we now have to deal with are straining that model.\"\n\nNowadays, information systems need to interact in a more open manner, and it becomes crucial to formally represent and apply the semantics these systems are concerned with.\n\nBusiness semantics management empowers all stakeholders in the organization by a consistent and aligned definition of the important information assets of the organization.\n\nThe available business semantics can be leveraged in the so-called business/social layer of the organization. They can for example be coupled to a content management application to provide the business with a consistent business vocabulary or enable better navigation or classification of information, leveraged by enterprise search engines to make richer semantic-web-ready websites, etc..\n\nBusiness semantics can also be used to increase operational efficiency in the technical/operation layer of the organization. It provides an abstracted way to access and deliver data in a more efficient manner. In that respect, it is similar to Enterprise Information Integration (EII) with the added benefit that the shared models are not described in technical terms but in a way that is easily understood by the business.\n\nCollibra is the first organization to commercialize the idea behind business semantics management. Collibra's approach to Business Semantics Management is based on DOGMA, a research project at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel.\n\n"}
{"id": "61910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61910", "title": "Climate change and agriculture", "text": "Climate change and agriculture\n\n]\n\nClimate change and agriculture are interrelated processes, both of which take place on a global scale. Climate change affects agriculture in a number of ways, including through changes in average temperatures, rainfall, and climate extremes (e.g., heat waves); changes in pests and diseases; changes in atmospheric carbon dioxide and ground-level ozone concentrations; changes in the nutritional quality of some foods; and changes in sea level.\n\nClimate change is already affecting agriculture, with effects unevenly distributed across the world. Future climate change will likely negatively affect crop production in low latitude countries, while effects in northern latitudes may be positive or negative. Climate change will probably increase the risk of food insecurity for some vulnerable groups, such as the poor. Animal agriculture is also responsible for greenhouse gas production and a percentage of the world's methane, and future land infertility, and the displacement of local species.\n\nAgriculture contributes to climate change both by anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases and by the conversion of non-agricultural land such as forests into agricultural land. Agriculture, forestry and land-use change contributed around 20 to 25% to global annual emissions in 2010.\n\nA range of policies can reduce the risk of negative climate change impacts on agriculture and greenhouse gas emissions from the agriculture sector.\n\nDespite technological advances, such as improved varieties, genetically modified organisms, and irrigation systems, weather is still a key factor in agricultural productivity, as well as soil properties and natural communities. The effect of climate on agriculture is related to variabilities in local climates rather than in global climate patterns. The Earth's average surface temperature has increased by 1.5 °F (0.83 °C) since 1880. Consequently, in making an assessment agronomists must consider each local area.\n\nOn the other hand, agricultural trade has grown in recent years, and now provides significant amounts of food, on a national level to major importing countries, as well as comfortable income to exporting ones. The international aspect of trade and security in terms of food implies the need to also consider the effects of climate change on a global scale.\n\nA 2008 study published in \"Science\" suggested that, due to climate change, \"southern Africa could lose more than 30% of its main crop, maize, by 2030. In South Asia losses of many regional staples, such as rice, millet and maize could top 10%\".\n\nThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has produced several reports that have assessed the scientific literature on climate change. The IPCC Third Assessment Report, published in 2001, concluded that the poorest countries would be hardest hit, with reductions in crop yields in most tropical and sub-tropical regions due to decreased water availability, and new or changed insect pest incidence. In Africa and Latin America many rainfed crops are near their maximum temperature tolerance, so that yields are likely to fall sharply for even small climate changes; falls in agricultural productivity of up to 30% over the 21st century are projected. Marine life and the fishing industry will also be severely affected in some places.\n\nClimate change induced by increasing greenhouse gases is likely to affect crops differently from region to region. For example, average crop yield is expected to drop down to 50% in Pakistan according to the Met Office scenario whereas corn production in Europe is expected to grow up to 25% in optimum hydrologic conditions.\n\nMore favourable effects on yield tend to depend to a large extent on realization of the potentially beneficial effects of carbon dioxide on crop growth and increase of efficiency in water use. Decrease in potential yields is likely to be caused by shortening of the growing period, decrease in water availability and poor vernalization.\n\nIn the long run, the climatic change could affect agriculture in several ways :\n\nThey are large uncertainties to uncover, particularly because there is lack of information on many specific local regions, and include the uncertainties on magnitude of climate change, the effects of technological changes on productivity, global food demands, and the numerous possibilities of adaptation.\n\nMost agronomists believe that agricultural production will be mostly affected by the severity and pace of climate change, not so much by gradual trends in climate. If change is gradual, there may be enough time for biota adjustment. Rapid climate change, however, could harm agriculture in many countries, especially those that are already suffering from rather poor soil and climate conditions, because there is less time for optimum natural selection and adaption.\n\nBut much remains unknown about exactly how climate change may affect farming and food security, in part because the role of farmer behaviour is poorly captured by crop-climate models. For instance, Evan Fraser, a geographer at the University of Guelph in Ontario Canada, has conducted a number of studies that show that the socio-economic context of farming may play a huge role in determining whether a drought has a major, or an insignificant impact on crop production. In some cases, it seems that even minor droughts have big impacts on food security (such as what happened in Ethiopia in the early 1980s where a minor drought triggered a massive famine), versus cases where even relatively large weather-related problems were adapted to without much hardship. Evan Fraser combines socio-economic models along with climatic models to identify “vulnerability hotspots” One such study has identified US maize (corn) production as particularly vulnerable to climate change because it is expected to be exposed to worse droughts, but it does not have the socio-economic conditions that suggest farmers will adapt to these changing conditions. Other studies rely instead on projections of key agro-meteorological or agro-climate indices, such as growing season length, plant heat stress, or start of field operations, identified by land management stakeholders and that provide useful information on mechanisms driving climate change impact on agriculture.\n\nGlobal warming could lead to an increase in pest insect populations, harming yields of staple crops like wheat, soybeans, and corn. While warmer temperatures create longer growing seasons, and faster growth rates for plants, it also increases the metabolic rate and number of breeding cycles of insect populations. Insects that previously had only two breeding cycles per year could gain an additional cycle if warm growing seasons extend, causing a population boom. Temperate places and higher latitudes are more likely to experience a dramatic change in insect populations.\n\nThe University of Illinois conducted studies to measure the effect of warmer temperatures on soybean plant growth and Japanese beetle populations. Warmer temperatures and elevated CO levels were simulated for one field of soybeans, while the other was left as a control. These studies found that the soybeans with elevated CO levels grew much faster and had higher yields, but attracted Japanese beetles at a significantly higher rate than the control field. The beetles in the field with increased CO also laid more eggs on the soybean plants and had longer lifespans, indicating the possibility of a rapidly expanding population. DeLucia projected that if the project were to continue, the field with elevated CO levels would eventually show lower yields than that of the control field.\n\nThe increased CO levels deactivated three genes within the soybean plant that normally create chemical defenses against pest insects. One of these defenses is a protein that blocks digestion of the soy leaves in insects. Since this gene was deactivated, the beetles were able to digest a much higher amount of plant matter than the beetles in the control field. This led to the observed longer lifespans and higher egg-laying rates in the experimental field.\n\nThere are a few proposed solutions to the issue of expanding pest populations. One proposed solution is to increase the number of pesticides used on future crops. This has the benefit of being relatively cost effective and simple, but may be ineffective. Many pest insects have been building up an immunity to these pesticides. Another proposed solution is to utilize biological control agents. This includes things like planting rows of native vegetation in between rows of crops. This solution is beneficial in its overall environmental impact. Not only are more native plants getting planted, but pest insects are no longer building up an immunity to pesticides. However, planting additional native plants requires more room, which destroys additional acres of public land. The cost is also much higher than simply using pesticides.\n\nAlthough research is limited, research has shown that climate change may alter the developmental stages of pathogens that can affect crops. The biggest consequence of climate change on the dispersal of pathogens is that the geographical distribution of hosts and pathogens could shift, which would result in more crop losses. This could affect competition and recovery from disturbances of plants. It has been predicted that the effect of climate change will add a level of complexity to figuring out how to maintain sustainable agriculture.\n\nEffects of regional climate change on agriculture have been limited. Changes in crop phenology provide important evidence of the response to recent regional climate change. Phenology is the study of natural phenomena that recur periodically, and how these phenomena relate to climate and seasonal changes. A significant advance in phenology has been observed for agriculture and forestry in large parts of the Northern Hemisphere.\n\nDroughts have been occurring more frequently because of global warming and they are expected to become more frequent and intense in Africa, southern Europe, the Middle East, most of the Americas, Australia, and Southeast Asia. Their impacts are aggravated because of increased water demand, population growth, urban expansion, and environmental protection efforts in many areas. Droughts result in crop failures and the loss of pasture grazing land for livestock.\n\nAs of the decade starting in 2010, many hot countries have thriving agricultural sectors.\n\nJalgaon district, India, has an average temperature which ranges from 20.2 °C in December to 29.8 °C in May, and an average precipitation of 750 mm/year. It produces bananas at a rate that would make it the world's seventh-largest banana producer if it were a country.\n\nDuring the period 1990-2012, Nigeria had an average temperature which ranged from a low of 24.9 °C in January to a high of 30.4 °C in April. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Nigeria is by far the world's largest producer of yams, producing over 38 million tonnes in 2012. The second through 8th largest yam producers were all nearby African countries, with the largest non-African producer, Papua New Guinea, producing less than 1% of Nigerian production.\n\nIn 2013, according to the FAO, Brazil and India were by far the world's leading producers of sugarcane, with a combined production of over 1 billion tonnes, or over half of worldwide production.\n\nIn the summer of 2018, heat waves probably linked to climate change cause much lower than average yield in many parts of the world, especially in Europe. Depending on conditions during August, more crop failures could rise global food prices. losses are compared to those of 1945, the worst harvest in memory. last year was the third time in four years that global wheat, rice and maize production failed to meet demand, forcing governments and food companies to release stocks from storage. India last week released 50% of its food stocks. Lester Brown, the head of Worldwatch, an independent research organisation, predicted thatfood prices will rise in the next few months.\n\nOverall food shortages are not expected this year. But, for prevent hunger, instability, new waves of Climate refugees international help to countries who will luck the money to buy enough food and stopping conflicts will be needed(see also Climate change adaptation).\n\nAs part of the IPCC's Fourth Assessment Report, Schneider \"et al.\" (2007) projected the potential future effects of climate change on agriculture. With low to medium confidence, they concluded that for about a 1 to 3 °C global mean temperature increase (by 2100, relative to the 1990–2000 average level) there would be productivity decreases for some cereals in low latitudes, and productivity increases in high latitudes. In the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report, \"low confidence\" means that a particular finding has about a 2 out of 10 chance of being correct, based on expert judgement. \"Medium confidence\" has about a 5 out of 10 chance of being correct. Over the same time period, with medium confidence, global production potential was projected to:\n\nMost of the studies on global agriculture assessed by Schneider \"et al.\" (2007) had not incorporated a number of critical factors, including changes in extreme events, or the spread of pests and diseases. Studies had also not considered the development of specific practices or technologies to aid adaptation to climate change.\n\nThe US National Research Council (US NRC, 2011) assessed the literature on the effects of climate change on crop yields. US NRC (2011) stressed the uncertainties in their projections of changes in crop yields.\n\nWriting in the journal \"Nature Climate Change\", Matthew Smith and Samuel Myers (2018) estimated that food crops could see a reduction of protein, iron and zinc content in common food crops of 3 to 17%. This is the projected result of food grown under the expected atmospheric carbon-dioxide levels of 2050. Using data from the UN Food and Agriculture Organization as well as other public sources, the authors analyzed 225 different staple foods, such as wheat, rice, maize, vegetables, roots and fruits.\n\nTheir central estimates of changes in crop yields are shown above. Actual changes in yields may be above or below these central estimates. US NRC (2011) also provided an estimated the \"likely\" range of changes in yields. \"Likely\" means a greater than 67% chance of being correct, based on expert judgement. The likely ranges are summarized in the image descriptions of the two graphs.\n\nThe IPCC Fourth Assessment Report also describes the impact of climate change on food security. Projections suggested that there could be large decreases in hunger globally by 2080, compared to the (then-current) 2006 level. Reductions in hunger were driven by projected social and economic development. For reference, the Food and Agriculture Organization has estimated that in 2006, the number of people undernourished globally was 820 million. Three scenarios \"without\" climate change (SRES A1, B1, B2) projected 100-130 million undernourished by the year 2080, while another scenario without climate change (SRES A2) projected 770 million undernourished. Based on an expert assessment of all of the evidence, these projections were thought to have about a 5-in-10 chance of being correct.\n\nThe same set of greenhouse gas and socio-economic scenarios were also used in projections that included the effects of climate change. \"Including\" climate change, three scenarios (SRES A1, B1, B2) projected 100-380 million undernourished by the year 2080, while another scenario with climate change (SRES A2) projected 740-1,300 million undernourished. These projections were thought to have between a 2-in-10 and 5-in-10 chance of being correct.\n\nProjections also suggested regional changes in the global distribution of hunger. By 2080, sub-Saharan Africa may overtake Asia as the world's most food-insecure region. This is mainly due to projected social and economic changes, rather than climate change.\n\nIn South America, a phenomenon known as the El Nino Oscillation Cycle, between floods and drought on the Pacific Coast has made as much as a 35% difference in Global yields of wheat and grain.\n\nLooking at the four key components of food security we can see the impact climate change has had. Food “Access to food is largely a matter of household and individual-level income and of capabilities and rights” (Wheeler et al.,2013). Access has been affected by the thousands of crops being destroyed, how communities are dealing with climate shocks and adapting to climate change. Prices on food will rise due to the shortage of food production due to conditions not being favourable for crop production. Utilization is affected by floods and drought where water resources are contaminated, and the changing temperatures create vicious stages and phases of disease. Availability is affected by the contamination of the crops, as there will be no food process for the products of these crops as a result. Stability is affected through price ranges and future prices as some food sources are becoming scarce due to climate change, so prices will rise.\n\nCline (2008) looked at how climate change might affect agricultural productivity in the 2080s. His study assumes that no efforts are made to reduce anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions, leading to global warming of 3.3 °C above the pre-industrial level. He concluded that global agricultural productivity could be negatively affected by climate change, with the worst effects in developing countries (see graph opposite).\n\nLobell \"et al.\" (2008a) assessed how climate change might affect 12 food-insecure regions in 2030. The purpose of their analysis was to assess where adaptation measures to climate change should be prioritized. They found that without sufficient adaptation measures, South Asia and South Africa would likely suffer negative impacts on several crops which are important to large food insecure human populations.\n\nBattisti and Naylor (2009) looked at how increased seasonal temperatures might affect agricultural productivity. Projections by the IPCC suggest that with climate change, high seasonal temperatures will become widespread, with the likelihood of extreme temperatures increasing through the second half of the 21st century. Battisti and Naylor (2009) concluded that such changes could have very serious effects on agriculture, particularly in the tropics. They suggest that major, near-term, investments in adaptation measures could reduce these risks.\n\n\"Climate change merely increases the urgency of reforming trade policies to ensure that global food security needs are met\" said C. Bellmann, ICTSD Programmes Director. A 2009 ICTSD-IPC study by Jodie Keane suggests that climate change could cause farm output in sub-Saharan Africa to decrease by 12% by 2080 - although in some African countries this figure could be as much as 60%, with agricultural exports declining by up to one fifth in others. Adapting to climate change could cost the agriculture sector $14bn globally a year, the study finds.\n\nIn Africa, IPCC (2007:13) projected that climate variability and change would severely compromise agricultural production and access to food. This projection was assigned \"high confidence.\"\n\nAfrica's geography makes it particularly vulnerable to climate change, and seventy per cent of the population rely on rain-fed agriculture for their livelihoods. Tanzania's official report on climate change suggests that the areas that usually get two rainfalls in the year will probably get more, and those that get only one rainy season will get far less. As of 2005, the net result was expected to be that 33% less maize—the country's staple crop—would be grown.\n\nIn East and Southeast Asia, IPCC (2007:13) projected that crop yields could increase up to 20% by the mid-21st century. In Central and South Asia, projections suggested that yields might decrease by up to 30%, over the same time period. These projections were assigned \"medium confidence.\" Taken together, the risk of hunger was projected to remain very high in several developing countries.\n\nMore detailed analysis of rice yields by the International Rice Research Institute forecast 20% reduction in yields over the region per degree Celsius of temperature rise. Rice becomes sterile if exposed to temperatures above 35 degrees for more than one hour during flowering and consequently produces no grain.\n\nA 2013 study by the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) aimed to find science-based, pro-poor approaches and techniques that would enable Asia's agricultural systems to cope with climate change, while benefitting poor and vulnerable farmers. The study's recommendations ranged from improving the use of climate information in local planning and strengthening weather-based agro-advisory services, to stimulating diversification of rural household incomes and providing incentives to farmers to adopt natural resource conservation measures to enhance forest cover, replenish groundwater and use renewable energy. A 2014 study found that warming had increased maize yields in the Heilongjiang region of China had increased by between 7 and 17% per decade as a result of rising temperatures.\n\nDue to climate change, livestock production will be decreased in Bangladesh by diseases, scarcity of forage, heat stress and breeding strategies.\n\nHennessy \"et al.\". (2007:509) assessed the literature for Australia and New Zealand. They concluded that without further adaptation to climate change, projected impacts would likely be substantial: By 2030, production from agriculture and forestry was projected to decline over much of southern and eastern Australia, and over parts of eastern New Zealand; In New Zealand, initial benefits were projected close to major rivers and in western and southern areas. Hennessy \"et al.\". (2007:509) placed high confidence in these projections.\n\nWith high confidence, IPCC (2007:14) projected that in Southern Europe, climate change would reduce crop productivity. In Central and Eastern Europe, forest productivity was expected to decline. In Northern Europe, the initial effect of climate change was projected to increase crop yields.\n\nThe major agricultural products of Latin American regions include livestock and grains, such as maize, wheat, soybeans, and rice. Increased temperatures and altered hydrological cycles are predicted to translate to shorter growing seasons, overall reduced biomass production, and lower grain yields. Brazil, Mexico and Argentina alone contribute 70-90% of the total agricultural production in Latin America. In these and other dry regions, maize production is expected to decrease. A study summarizing a number of impact studies of climate change on agriculture in Latin America indicated that wheat is expected to decrease in Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay. Livestock, which is the main agricultural product for parts of Argentina, Uruguay, southern Brazil, Venezuela, and Colombia is likely to be reduced. Variability in the degree of production decrease among different regions of Latin America is likely. For example, one 2003 study that estimated future maize production in Latin America predicted that by 2055 maize in eastern Brazil will have moderate changes while Venezuela is expected to have drastic decreases.\n\nSuggested potential adaptation strategies to mitigate the impacts of global warming on agriculture in Latin America include using plant breeding technologies and installing irrigation infrastructure.\n\nSeveral studies that investigated the impacts of climate change on agriculture in Latin America suggest that in the poorer countries of Latin America, agriculture composes the most important economic sector and the primary form of sustenance for small farmers. Maize is the only grain still produced as a sustenance crop on small farms in Latin American nations. Scholars argue that the projected decrease of this grain and other crops will threaten the welfare and the economic development of subsistence communities in Latin America. Food security is of particular concern to rural areas that have weak or non-existent food markets to rely on in the case food shortages.\n\nAccording to scholars who considered the environmental justice implications of climate change, the expected impacts of climate change on subsistence farmers in Latin America and other developing regions are unjust for two reasons. First, subsistence farmers in developing countries, including those in Latin America are disproportionately vulnerable to climate change Second, these nations were the least responsible for causing the problem of anthropogenic induced climate.\n\nAccording to researchers John F. Morton and T. Roberts, disproportionate vulnerability to climate disasters is socially determined. For example, socioeconomic and policy trends affecting smallholder and subsistence farmers limit their capacity to adapt to change. According to W. Baethgen who studied the vulnerability of Latin American agriculture to climate change, a history of policies and economic dynamics has negatively impacted rural farmers. During the 1950s and through the 1980s, high inflation and appreciated real exchange rates reduced the value of agricultural exports. As a result, farmers in Latin America received lower prices for their products compared to world market prices. Following these outcomes, Latin American policies and national crop programs aimed to stimulate agricultural intensification. These national crop programs benefitted larger commercial farmers more. In the 1980s and 1990s low world market prices for cereals and livestock resulted in decreased agricultural growth and increased rural poverty.\n\nIn the book, Fairness in Adaptation to Climate Change, the authors describe the global injustice of climate change between the rich nations of the north, who are the most responsible for global warming and the southern poor countries and minority populations within those countries who are most vulnerable to climate change impacts.\n\nAdaptive planning is challenged by the difficulty of predicting local scale climate change impacts. An expert that considered opportunities for climate change adaptation for rural communities argues that a crucial component to adaptation should include government efforts to lessen the effects of food shortages and famines. This researcher also claims that planning for equitable adaptation and agricultural sustainability will require the engagement of farmers in decision making processes.\n\nA number of studies have been produced which assess the impacts of climate change on agriculture in North America. The IPCC Fourth Assessment Report of agricultural impacts in the region cites 26 different studies. With high confidence, IPCC (2007:14–15) projected that over the first few decades of this century, moderate climate change would increase aggregate yields of rain-fed agriculture by 5–20%, but with important variability among regions. Major challenges were projected for crops that are near the warm end of their suitable range or which depend on highly utilized water resources.\n\nDroughts are becoming more frequent and intense in arid and semiarid western North America as temperatures have been rising, advancing the timing and magnitude of spring snow melt ﬂoods and reducing river flow volume in summer. Direct effects of climate change include increased heat and water stress, altered crop phenology, and disrupted symbiotic interactions. These effects may be exacerbated by climate changes in river ﬂow, and the combined effects are likely to reduce the abundance of native trees in favor of non-native herbaceous and drought-tolerant competitors, reduce the habitat quality for many native animals, and slow litter decomposition and nutrient cycling. Climate change effects on human water demand and irrigation may intensify these effects.\n\nThe US Global Change Research Program (2009) assessed the literature on the impacts of climate change on agriculture in the United States, finding that many crops will benefit from increased atmospheric concentrations and low levels of warming, but that higher levels of warming will negatively affect growth and yields; that extreme weather events will likely reduce crop yields; that weeds, diseases and insect pests will benefit from warming, and will require additional pest and weed control; and that increasing concentrations will reduce the land's ability to supply adequate livestock feed, while increased heat, disease, and weather extremes will likely reduce livestock productivity.\n\nAnisimov \"et al.\". (2007:655) assessed the literature for the polar region (Arctic and Antarctica). With medium confidence, they concluded that the benefits of a less severe climate were dependent on local conditions. One of these benefits was judged to be increased agricultural and forestry opportunities.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported on how climate change had affected agriculture in Iceland. Rising temperatures had made the widespread sowing of barley possible, which had been untenable twenty years ago. Some of the warming was due to a local (possibly temporary) effect via ocean currents from the Caribbean, which had also affected fish stocks.\n\nIn a literature assessment, Mimura \"et al.\" (2007:689) concluded that on small islands, subsistence and commercial agriculture would very likely be adversely affected by climate change. This projection was assigned \"high confidence.\"\n\nResearchers at the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) have investigated the potential impacts climate change could have on agriculture, and how this would affect attempts at alleviating poverty in the developing world. They argued that the effects from moderate climate change are likely to be mixed for developing countries. However, the vulnerability of the poor in developing countries to short term impacts from climate change, notably the increased frequency and severity of adverse weather events is likely to have a negative impact. This, they say, should be taken into account when defining agricultural policy.\n\nThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has reported that agriculture is responsible for over a quarter of total global greenhouse gas emissions. Given that agriculture’s share in global gross domestic product (GDP) is about 4%, these figures suggest that agriculture is highly greenhouse gas intensive. Innovative agricultural practices and technologies can play a role in climate change mitigation and adaptation. This adaptation and mitigation potential is nowhere more pronounced than in developing countries where agricultural productivity remains low; poverty, vulnerability and food insecurity remain high; and the direct effects of climate change are expected to be especially harsh. Creating the necessary agricultural technologies and harnessing them to enable developing countries to adapt their agricultural systems to changing climate will require innovations in policy and institutions as well. In this context, institutions and policies are important at multiple scales.\n\nTravis Lybbert and Daniel Sumner suggest six policy principles:\n(1) The best policy and institutional responses will enhance information flows, incentives and flexibility.\n(2) Policies and institutions that promote economic development and reduce poverty will often improve agricultural adaptation and may also pave the way for more effective climate change mitigation through agriculture.\n(3) Business as usual among the world’s poor is not adequate.\n(4) Existing technology options must be made more available and accessible without overlooking complementary capacity and investments.\n(5) Adaptation and mitigation in agriculture will require local responses, but effective policy responses must also reflect global impacts and inter-linkages.\n(6) Trade will play a critical role in both mitigation and adaptation, but will itself be shaped importantly by climate change.\n\nThe Agricultural Model Intercomparison and Improvement Project (AgMIP) was developed in 2010 to evaluate agricultural models and intercompare their ability to predict climate impacts. In sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, South America and East Asia, AgMIP regional research teams (RRTs) are conducting integrated assessments to improve understanding of agricultural impacts of climate change (including biophysical and economic impacts) at national and regional scales. Other AgMIP initiatives include global gridded modeling, data and information technology (IT) tool development, simulation of crop pests and diseases, site-based crop-climate sensitivity studies, and aggregation and scaling.\n\nModels for climate behavior are frequently inconclusive. In order to further study effects of global warming on agriculture, other types of models, such as \"crop development models\", \"yield prediction\", quantities of \"water or fertilizer consumed\", can be used. Such models condense the knowledge accumulated of the climate, soil, and effects observed of the results of various agricultural practices. They thus could make it possible to test strategies of adaptation to modifications of the environment.\n\nBecause these models are necessarily simplifying natural conditions (often based on the assumption that weeds, disease and insect pests are controlled), it is not clear whether the results they give will have an \"in-field\" reality. However, some results are partly validated with an increasing number of experimental results.\n\nOther models, such as \"insect and disease development\" models based on climate projections are also used (for example simulation of aphid reproduction or septoria (cereal fungal disease) development).\n\nScenarios are used in order to estimate climate changes effects on crop development and yield. Each scenario is defined as a set of meteorological variables, based on generally accepted projections. For example, many models are running simulations based on doubled carbon dioxide projections, temperatures raise ranging from 1 °C up to 5 °C, and with rainfall levels an increase or decrease of 20%. Other parameters may include humidity, wind, and solar activity. Scenarios of crop models are testing farm-level adaptation, such as sowing date shift, climate adapted species (vernalisation need, heat and cold resistance), irrigation and fertilizer adaptation, resistance to disease. Most developed models are about wheat, maize, rice and soybean.\n\nDuration of crop growth cycles are above all, related to temperature. An increase in temperature will speed up development. In the case of an annual crop, the duration between sowing and harvesting will shorten (for example, the duration in order to harvest corn could shorten between one and four weeks). The shortening of such a cycle could have an adverse effect on productivity because senescence would occur sooner.\n\nElevated atmospheric carbon dioxide effects plants in a variety of ways. Elevated CO increases crop yields and growth through an increase in photosynthetic rate, and it also decreases water loss as a result of stomatal closing The growth response is greatest in C plants, C plants ,are also enhanced but to a lesser extent, and CAM Plants are the least enhanced species. \n\nIncrease in global temperatures will cause an increase in evaporation rates and annual evaporation levels. Increased evaporation will lead to an increase in storms in some areas, while leading to accelerated drying of other areas. These storm impacted areas will likely experience increased levels of precipitation and increased flood risks, while areas outside of the storm track will experience less precipitation and increased risk of droughts. Water stress effects plant development and quality in a variety of ways first off drought can cause poor germination and impaired seedling development in plants. At the same time plant growth relies on cellular division, cell enlargement, and differentiation. Drought stress impairs mitosis and cell elongation via loss of turgor pressure which results in poor growth. Development of leaves is also dependent upon turgor pressure, concentration of nutrients, and carbon assimilates all of which are reduced by drought conditions, thus drought stress lead to a decrease in leaf size and number. Plant height, biomass, leaf size and stem girth has been shown to decrease in Maize under water limiting conditions. Crop yield is also negatively effected by drought stress, the reduction in crop yield results from a decrease in photosynthetic rate, changes in leaf development, and altered allocation of resources all due to drought stress. Crop plants exposed to drought stress suffer from reductions in leaf water potential and transpiration rate, however water-use efficiency has been shown to increase in some crop plants such as wheat while decreasing in others such as potatoes. Plants need water for the uptake of nutrients from the soil, and for the transport of nutrients throughout the plant, drought conditions limit these functions leading to stunted growth. Drought stress also causes a decrease in photosynthetic activity in plants due to the reduction of photosynthetic tissues, stomatal closure, and reduced performance of photosynthetic machinery. This reduction in photosynthetic activity contributes to the reduction in plant growth and yields. Another factor influencing reduced plant growth and yields include the allocation of resources; following drought stress plants will allocate more resources to roots to aid in water uptake increasing root growth and reducing the growth of other plant parts while decreasing yields.\n\nAccording to the IPCC's TAR, \"The importance of climate change impacts on grain and forage quality emerges from new research. For rice, the amylose content of the grain—a major determinant of cooking quality—is increased under elevated CO\" (Conroy et al., 1994). Cooked rice grain from plants grown in high- environments would be firmer than that from today's plants. However, concentrations of iron and zinc, which are important for human nutrition, would be lower (Seneweera and Conroy, 1997). Moreover, the protein content of the grain decreases under combined increases of temperature and CO (Ziska et al., 1997). Studies using FACE have shown that increases in CO lead to decreased concentrations of micronutrients in crop plants, including decreased B vitamins in rice. This may have knock-on effects on other parts of ecosystems as herbivores will need to eat more food to gain the same amount of protein.\n\nStudies have shown that higher CO levels lead to reduced plant uptake of nitrogen (and a smaller number showing the same for trace elements such as zinc) resulting in crops with lower nutritional value. This would primarily impact on populations in poorer countries less able to compensate by eating more food, more varied diets, or possibly taking supplements.\n\nReduced nitrogen content in grazing plants has also been shown to reduce animal productivity in sheep, which depend on microbes in their gut to digest plants, which in turn depend on nitrogen intake. Because of the lack of water available to crops in warmer countries they struggle to survive as they suffer from dehydration, taking into account the increasing demand for water outside of agriculture as well as other agricultural demands.\n\nClimate change may increase the amount of arable land in high-latitude region by reduction of the amount of frozen lands. A 2005 study reports that temperature in Siberia has increased three degree Celsius in average since 1960 (much more than the rest of the world). However, reports about the impact of global warming on Russian agriculture indicate conflicting probable effects : while they expect a northward extension of farmable lands, they also warn of possible productivity losses and increased risk of drought.\n\nSea levels are expected to get up to one meter higher by 2100, though this projection is disputed. A rise in the sea level would result in an agricultural land loss, in particular in areas such as South East Asia. Erosion, submergence of shorelines, salinity of the water table due to the increased sea levels, could mainly affect agriculture through inundation of low-lying lands.\n\nLow-lying areas such as Bangladesh, India and Vietnam will experience major loss of rice crop if sea levels rise as expected by the end of the century. Vietnam for example relies heavily on its southern tip, where the Mekong Delta lies, for rice planting. Any rise in sea level of no more than a meter will drown several km of rice paddies, rendering Vietnam incapable of producing its main staple and export of rice.\n\nThe warmer atmospheric temperatures observed over the past decades are expected to lead to a more vigorous hydrological cycle, including more extreme rainfall events. Erosion and soil degradation is more likely to occur. Soil fertility would also be affected by global warming. Increased erosion in agricultural landscapes from anthropogenic factors can occur with losses of up to 22% of soil carbon in 50 years. However, because the ratio of soil organic carbon to nitrogen is mediated by soil biology such that it maintains a narrow range, a doubling of soil organic carbon is likely to imply a doubling in the storage of nitrogen in soils as organic nitrogen, thus providing higher available nutrient levels for plants, supporting higher yield potential. The demand for imported fertilizer nitrogen could decrease, and provide the opportunity for changing costly fertilisation strategies.\n\nDue to the extremes of climate that would result, the increase in precipitations would probably result in greater risks of erosion, whilst at the same time providing soil with better hydration, according to the intensity of the rain. The possible evolution of the organic matter in the soil is a highly contested issue: while the increase in the temperature would induce a greater rate in the production of minerals, lessening the soil organic matter content, the atmospheric CO concentration would tend to increase it.\n\nA very important point to consider is that weeds would undergo the same acceleration of cycle as cultivated crops, and would also benefit from carbonaceous fertilization. Since most weeds are C3 plants, they are likely to compete even more than now against C4 crops such as corn. However, on the other hand, some results make it possible to think that weedkillers could increase in effectiveness with the temperature increase.\n\nGlobal warming would cause an increase in rainfall in some areas, which would lead to an increase of atmospheric humidity and the duration of the wet seasons. Combined with higher temperatures, these could favor the development of fungal diseases. Similarly, because of higher temperatures and humidity, there could be an increased pressure from insects and disease vectors.\n\nThe continued retreat of glaciers will have a number of different quantitative impacts. In the areas that are heavily dependent on water runoff from glaciers that melt during the warmer summer months, a continuation of the current retreat will eventually deplete the glacial ice and substantially reduce or eliminate runoff. A reduction in runoff will affect the ability to irrigate crops and will reduce summer stream flows necessary to keep dams and reservoirs replenished.\n\nApproximately 2.4 billion people live in the drainage basin of the Himalayan rivers. India, China, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Myanmar could experience floods followed by severe droughts in coming decades. In India alone, the Ganges provides water for drinking and farming for more than 500 million people. The west coast of North America, which gets much of its water from glaciers in mountain ranges such as the Rocky Mountains and Sierra Nevada, also would be affected.\n\nSome scientists think agriculture could be affected by any decrease in stratospheric ozone, which could increase biologically dangerous ultraviolet radiation B. Excess ultraviolet radiation B can directly affect plant physiology and cause massive amounts of mutations, and indirectly through changed pollinator behavior, though such changes are not simple to quantify. However, it has not yet been ascertained whether an increase in greenhouse gases would decrease stratospheric ozone levels.\n\nIn addition, a possible effect of rising temperatures is significantly higher levels of ground-level ozone, which would substantially lower yields.\n\nENSO (El Niño Southern Oscillation) will affect monsoon patterns more intensely in the future as climate change warms up the ocean's water. Crops that lie on the equatorial belt or under the tropical Walker circulation, such as rice, will be affected by varying monsoon patterns and more unpredictable weather. Scheduled planting and harvesting based on weather patterns will become less effective.\n\nAreas such as Indonesia where the main crop consists of rice will be more vulnerable to the increased intensity of ENSO effects in the future of climate change. University of Washington professor, David Battisti, researched the effects of future ENSO patterns on the Indonesian rice agriculture using [IPCC]'s 2007 annual report and 20 different logistical models mapping out climate factors such as wind pressure, sea-level, and humidity, and found that rice harvest will experience a decrease in yield. Bali and Java, which holds 55% of the rice yields in Indonesia, will be likely to experience 9–10% probably of delayed monsoon patterns, which prolongs the hungry season. Normal planting of rice crops begin in October and harevest by January. However, as climate change affects ENSO and consequently delays planting, harvesting will be late and in drier conditions, resulting in less potential yields.\n\nThe agricultural sector is a driving force in the gas emissions and land use effects thought to cause climate change. In addition to being a significant user of land and consumer of fossil fuel, agriculture contributes directly to greenhouse gas emissions through practices such as rice production and the raising of livestock; according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the three main causes of the increase in greenhouse gases observed over the past 250 years have been fossil fuels, land use, and agriculture.\n\nAgriculture contributes to greenhouse gas increases through land use in four main ways:\n\nTogether, these agricultural processes comprise 54% of methane emissions, roughly 80% of nitrous oxide emissions, and virtually all carbon dioxide emissions tied to land use.\n\nThe planet's major changes to land cover since 1750 have resulted from deforestation in temperate regions: when forests and woodlands are cleared to make room for fields and pastures, the albedo of the affected area increases, which can result in either warming or cooling effects, depending on local conditions. Deforestation also affects regional carbon reuptake, which can result in increased concentrations of CO, the dominant greenhouse gas. Land-clearing methods such as slash and burn compound these effects by burning biomatter, which directly releases greenhouse gases and particulate matter such as soot into the air.\n\nLivestock and livestock-related activities such as deforestation and increasingly fuel-intensive farming practices are responsible for over 18% of human-made greenhouse gas emissions, including:\n\nLivestock activities also contribute disproportionately to land-use effects, since crops such as corn and alfalfa are cultivated in order to feed the animals.\n\nIn 2010, enteric fermentation accounted for 43% of the total greenhouse gas emissions from all agricultural activity in the world. The meat from ruminants has a higher carbon equivalent footprint than other meats or vegetarian sources of protein based on a global meta-analysis of lifecycle assessment studies. Methane production by animals, principally ruminants, is estimated 15-20% global production of methane.\n\nWorldwide, livestock production occupies 70% of all land used for agriculture, or 30% of the land surface of the Earth. The way livestock is grazed also decides the fertility of the land in the future, not circulating grazing can lead to unhealthy soil and the expansion of livestock farms effects the habitats of local animals and has led to the drop in population of many local species from being displaced.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5937960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5937960", "title": "Colhuacan (altepetl)", "text": "Colhuacan (altepetl)\n\nCulhuacan () was one of the Nahuatl-speaking pre-Columbian city-states of the Valley of Mexico. According to tradition, Culhuacan was founded by the Toltecs under Mixcoatl and was the first Toltec city. The Nahuatl speakers agreed that Culhuacán was the first city to give its rulers the title of \"speaker\" (\"tlatoani\").\n\nCulhuacan was perhaps the first of the chinampa towns founded on the shores of Lake Xochimilco, with chinampas dating to 1100 C.E.\n\nFrom written records there is evidence that Culhuacan survived the fall of Tollan and maintained its prestige until the mid-14th century. According to the \"Cronica Mexicayotl\", transcribed in 1609, in 1299, Culhuacan's \"tlatoani\", Coxcoxtli, helped the Tepanecs of Azcapotzalco, the Xochimilca and other cities expel the Mexica from Chapultepec. Coxcoxtli then gave the Mexica permission to settle in the barren land of Tizapan, southwest of Chapultepec, and they became vassals of Culhuacan. The Mexica subsequently assimilated into Culhuacan's culture and their soldiers provided mercenaries for its wars.\n\nThe Tenochtitlan \"tlatoani\" Acamapichtli was a grandson of Coxcoxtli. Nevertheless, in 1377 Azcapotzalco subdued Culhuacán in large part with Aztec troops. In 1428, the Mexican Tlatoani Itzcóatl helped to overthrow Azcapotzalco's hegemony, and accepted the title \"Ruler of the Culhua\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32980504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32980504", "title": "Cuckquean", "text": "Cuckquean\n\nA cuckquean is the gender-opposite of a cuckold, derived from Middle English (1562 AD).\n\nA cuckquean is a wife with an adulterous husband. In modern English it generally refers to a woman whose fetish is watching, and deriving sexual pleasure from watching, a man having sex with one or several women besides his girlfriend, fiancée, wife or other long-term female sex partner.\n\nA cuckquean fetishist is aware of her spouse's activity, sometimes actively encouraging it, and derives sexual pleasure from it. Among some fetishists, the cuckold's humiliation or victimization is a major element of the paraphilia.\n\nIn the fetish cuckqueaning subculture, the male takes on the role of being sexually dominant, while the female takes on a submissive role. The wife usually only becomes involved with the man or his lover when he permits it—sometimes remaining altogether celibate.\n\nWhen the fetish is simply heterosexual, the wife has sex only with her husband; when it is bi-sexual, the wife has sex with both her husband and the other woman, or only with the other woman.\n\nThe fetish specifics can range wildly. Sometimes the husband and his lovers can treat the cuckquean lovingly; sometimes it involves nothing but swinging, swapping husbands or sharing a lover. But when it goes beyond this, the fetish can require that the cuckquean be humiliated or debased. Sometimes this may be accidental or incidental (e.g., the parties involved are too aroused to stop); but at other times the humiliation may be intentional, and the husband and his lovers act out a story or perform a ritual in which they force the cuckquean to perform humiliating acts, or enter into circumstances that debase her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14499827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14499827", "title": "Dining club", "text": "Dining club\n\nA dining club is a social group, usually requiring membership (which may, or may not be available only to certain people), which meets for dinners and discussion on a regular basis. They may also often have guest speakers.\n\nA dining club differs from a gentlemen's club in that it does not have permanent premises, often changing the location of its meetings and dinners.\n\nClubs may limit their membership to those who meet highly specific membership requirements, for example the Coningsby Club requires that one was a member of either OUCA or CUCA, the Conservative Associations at the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge respectively. Others may require applicants to pass an interview, or simply pay a membership fee.\n\nIn the United States, similar clubs that limit membership to students of a particular university are referred to as eating clubs. Replaced largely by the modern fraternity and sorority system in the United States, eating clubs are now limited to a few colleges and universities, most notably Princeton University.\n\nDining clubs often have reciprocity with other dining clubs across the nation or even worldwide. Some are able to arrange reciprocity with other private social clubs with more facilities besides dining such as overnight guest rooms and a gym. Examples of such social clubs include Penn Club of New York City that has reciprocity with India House Club at 1 Hanover Square.\n\n\"This list is incomplete.\"\n\"Date of founding in brackets\"\n18th-century foundations\n19th-century foundations\n20th- and 21st-century foundations\n\n"}
{"id": "25969190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25969190", "title": "Duquesne Club", "text": "Duquesne Club\n\nThe Duquesne Club is a private social club in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, founded in 1873.\n\nThe Duquesne Club was founded in 1873. Its first president was John H. Ricketson. The club's present home, a Romanesque structure designed by Longfellow, Alden & Harlow on Sixth Avenue in downtown Pittsburgh, was opened in 1890; an addition designed by Janssen & Cocken that included a garden patio, barbershop, and new kitchens was constructed in 1931. The building achieved landmark status from the Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation in 1976, and was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1995.\n\nThe Club voted to admit women for the first time in its history in 1980. A health-and-fitness center was added in 1994, and the Club was ranked as #1 City Club in America in 1997, an honor that would be repeated in 2001, 2003, and 2006.\n\nIn 2009, the Duquesne Club was ranked as the second best city club in the nation, behind the Union League Club of Philadelphia.\n\nAmong notable guest to the club are U.S. Presidents Ulysses S. Grant, Herbert Hoover, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton as well as Colin Powell, Polish leader Edward Gierek, Jungle James, Tars Cornish, Charles, Prince of Wales and Former Pakistan Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto.\n\nAs of 2007, membership at the Duquesne Club consisted of about 2,700 men and women. Though the Club does not discriminate in its selection of members, membership is by invitation from an existing member only.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1424188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1424188", "title": "Economy of the Iroquois", "text": "Economy of the Iroquois\n\nThe economy of the Iroquois (also known as \"Haudenosaunee\") historically was based on communal production and combined elements of both horticulture and hunter-gatherer systems. Some have the Iroquois economy as primitive communism. The tribes of the Iroquois Confederacy and other Northern Huron, had their traditional territory in what is now New York State and the southern areas bordering the Great Lakes. The confederacy was originally composed of five tribes; the Mohawk, Onondaga, Oneida, Cayuga, and Seneca, who had created an alliance long before European contact. The Tuscarora were added as a sixth nation in the early eighteenth century after they migrated from North Carolina. The Huron peoples, located mostly in what is now Canada, were also Iroquioan-speaking and shared some culture, but were never part of the Iroquois.\n\nThe Iroquoian people were predominantly agricultural, harvesting the \"Three Sisters\" commonly grown by Native American groups: corn, beans, and squash. They developed certain cultural customs. Among these developments were ideas concerning the nature and management of property. The Iroquois developed a system very different from the now-dominant Western variety. This system was characterized by such components as common ownership of land, division of labor by gender, and trade mostly based on gift economy.\n\nContact with Europeans in the early 17th century had a profound impact on the economy of the Iroquoians. At first, they became important trading partners, but the expansion of European settlement upset the balance of the Iroquois economy. By 1800, following the American Revolutionary War, in which most of the nations supported the British and had to share their defeat, the Iroquois were reduced to reservations, primarily in New York in the United States, and Quebec and Ontario in Canada. They had to adapt their traditional economic system to dramatic changes. In the 20th century, some of the Iroquois nations in the United States have benefited from their sovereign status by founding gambling and recreation facilities, which have yielded greater revenues than some other enterprises. Individually, Iroquois have also become part of the larger economies in cities off the reservation.\n\nThe Iroquois had an essentially communal system of land ownership. The French Catholic missionary Gabriel Sagard described the fundamentals. The Huron had \"as much land as they need[ed].\" As a result, the Huron could give families their own land and still have a large amount of excess land owned communally. Any Huron was free to clear the land and farm on the basis of usufruct. He maintained possession of the land as long as he continued to actively cultivate and tend the fields. Once he abandoned the land, it reverted to communal ownership, and anyone could take it up for themselves. While the Huron did seem to have lands designated for the individual, the significance of this possession may be of little relevance; the placement of corn storage vessels in the longhouses, which contained multiple families in one kinship group, suggests the occupants of a given longhouse held all production in common.\n\nThe Iroquois had a similar communal system of land distribution. The tribe owned all lands but gave out tracts to the different clans for further distribution among households for cultivation. The land would be redistributed among the households every few years, and a clan could request a redistribution of tracts when the Clan Mothers' Council gathered. Those clans that abused their allocated land or otherwise did not take care of it would be warned and eventually punished by the Clan Mothers' Council by having the land redistributed to another clan. Land property was really only the concern of the women, since it was the women's job to cultivate food and not the men's.\n\nThe Clan Mothers' Council also reserved certain areas of land to be worked by the women of all the different clans. Food from such lands, called \"kěndiǔ\"gwǎ'ge' hodi'yěn'tho\", would be used at festivals and large council gatherings.\n\nThe division of labor reflected the complementary aspects common in Iroquois culture: The twin gods Sapling (East) and Flint (West) embodied the two complementary halves. Each gender had defined roles in labor to support the people, which complemented each other. Women did all work involving the field, including planting, cultivating and harvesting the crops; while men did all work involving the forest, including the manufacture of anything involving wood. The Iroquois men carried out hunting and fishing, trading, and fighting, while the women took care of farming, food gathering and processing, rearing of children, and housekeeping. This gendered division of labor was the predominant means of dividing work in Iroquois society. At the time of contact with Europeans, Iroquois women produced about 65% of the goods and the men 35%. The combined production of food made famine and hunger extremely rare; early Europeans settlers often envied the success of Iroquois food production.\n\nThe Iroquois system of work reflected their communal land system. Since the Iroquois owned property together, they worked together as well. The women performed difficult work in large groups, going from field to field helping one another work each other's land. Together they would sow the fields as a \"mistress of the field\" distributed a set amount of seeds to each of the women. The Iroquois women of each agricultural group would select an old but active member of their group to act as their leader for that year and agree to follow her directions. The women performed other work cooperatively as well. The women individually cut wood for family use, but their leader would oversee the collective carrying of the wood back to the village. The women's clans performed other work. According to Mary Jemison, a white woman assimilated with the Seneca while a young woman, the collective effort averted \"every jealousy of one having done more or less work than another.\"\nThe Iroquois men also organized in a cooperative fashion. The men acted collectively during military actions. The other jobs of men, such as hunting and fishing, also involved cooperative elements. The men more often organized as a whole village rather than as a clan. The men organized hunting parties where they used extensive cooperation to kill a large amount of game. One firsthand account told of a hunting party that built a large brush fence in a forest to form a \"V\". The hunters set a fire across from the open side of the \"V\", forcing the animals to run towards the point where the hunters awaited them. They could kill one hundred deer at a time by such a plan.\nThe men also fished in large groups. Fishing expeditions included men in canoes using weirs and nets to cover entire streams and harvest large amounts of fish, sometimes a thousand in half of a day. A hunting or fishing party's takings were considered common property; they were divided among the party by the leader or taken to the village for a feast. Hunting and fishing were not always cooperative efforts, but the Iroquois generally did better in parties than as individuals.\n\nThe Iroquois traded excess corn and tobacco for the pelts from the tribes to the north and the wampum from the tribes to the east. The Iroquois used present-giving more often than any other mode of exchange. Present-giving reflected the reciprocity in Iroquois society. The exchange would begin with one clan giving another tribe or clan a present with the expectation of some sort of needed commodity being given in return. This form of trade ties to the Iroquois culture's tendency to share property and cooperate in labor. In all cases no explicit agreement is made, but one service is performed for the community or another member of the community's good with the expectation that the community or another individual would give back. External trade offered one of the few opportunities for individual enterprise in Iroquois society. A person who discovered a new trading route had the exclusive right to trade along the same route in the future. Often clans collectivized trading routes to gain a monopoly on a certain type of trade.\nThe arrival of Europeans created the opportunity for greatly expanded trade. Furs were in demand in Europe, and they could be acquired cheaply from Indians in exchange for manufactured goods the Indians could not make themselves. Trade did not always benefit the Natives. The British took advantage of the gift-giving culture. They showered the Iroquois with European goods, making them dependent on such items as rifles and metal axes. For a time, the access to guns gave the Mohawk and other Iroquois advantages over other tribes, and they entered trading seriously. The British primarily used these gifts to gain support among the Iroquois for fighting against the French.\n\nThe Iroquois also traded for alcohol, which the Europeans introduced. Eventually, this would have a very negative influence on their society, as they suffered a high rate of alcoholism. By 1753 Scarrooyady, a chief, petitioned the Governor of Pennsylvania to intervene in trade: \n\"Your Traders now bring scarce anything but Rum and Flour; they bring little powder and lead, or other valuable goods . . . and get all the skins that should go to pay the debts we have contracted for goods bought of the Fair Traders; by this means we not only ruin ourselves but them too. These wicked Whiskey Sellers, when they have once got the Indians in liquor, make them sell their very clothes from their backs. In short, if this practice be continued, we must be inevitably ruined.\"\n\nThe structure of the Iroquois economy created a unique property and work ethic. The threat of theft was almost nonexistent, since little was held by the individual except basic tools and implements that were so prevalent they had little value. The only goods worth stealing would have been wampum. While a theft-free society can be respected by all, communal systems such as that of the Iroquois are often criticized for providing less of an incentive to work. In order for the Iroquois to succeed without an individual incentive, they had to develop a communal work ethic. Virtue became synonymous with productivity. The idealized Iroquois man was a good warrior and productive hunter while the perfect woman excelled in agriculture and housekeeping. By emphasizing an individual's usefulness to society, the Iroquois created a mindset that encouraged their members to contribute even though they received similar benefits no matter how hard they worked.\n\nAs a result of their communal system, some would expect the Iroquois to have a culture of dependence without individuality. The Iroquois, however, had a strong tradition of autonomous responsibility. Iroquois men were taught to be self-disciplined, self-reliant, and responsible as well as stoic. The Iroquois attempted to eliminate any feelings of dependency during childhood and foster a desire for responsibility. At the same time, the child would have to participate in a communal culture, children were taught to think as individuals but work for the community.\n\nThe Iroquois system of land management changed somewhat after encounter with the Europeans. The Mohawk were the first to deal with them and \"sold\" some land to settlers, although it is unlikely either side understood the other's conception of property.\n\nAfter the American Revolutionary War, the victorious Americans forced the nations into reservations much reduced in size from their former territories, even those two, the Oneida and Onondaga, that had supported them. Most of the other Iroquois nations were forced to give up their territory and retreated to Canada, where they received some land in compensation from the Crown, in addition to existing settlements along the St. Lawrence River.\n\nThe Iroquois had a system of collectively owned land free to be used as needed by their members. While this system was not wholly collective, as land was distributed for use to individual family groups, the Iroquois lacked the Western conception of property as a commodity. Despite the influence of Western culture, the Iroquois have maintained a unique view of property over the years.\n\nThe contemporary Mohawk Doug George-Kanentiio sums up his perception of the Iroquois property view: The Iroquois have \n\"no absolute right to claim territory for purely monetary purposes. Our Creator gave us our aboriginal lands in trust with very specific rules regarding its uses. We are caretakers of our Mother Earth, not lords of the land. Our claims are valid only so far as we dwell in peace and harmony upon her.\"\n\nIn 1981 the Iroquois Council of Chiefs (or Haudenosaunee) expressed similar ideas. The Council distinguished the \n\"Western European concepts of land ownership\" from the Iroquois view that \"the earth is sacred\" and \"was created for all to use forever—not to be exploited merely for this present generation.\" Land is not just a commodity and \"In no event is land for sale.\" The statement continues, \"Under Haudenosaunee law, 'Gayanerkowa,' the land is held by the women of each clan. It is principally the women who are responsible for the land, who farm it, and who care for it for the future generations. When the Confederacy was formed, the separate nations formed one union. The territory of each nation became Confederacy land even though each nation continued to have a special interest in its historic territory.\" The Council's statement reflects its unique view of property among the Iroquois.\n\nThe system of the Grand River Iroquois (two Iroquois reservations in Canada) integrated the traditional Iroquois property structure with the new way of life after being confined to a reservation. The reservation was established under two deeds by the Crown in the 18th century following the American Revolutionary War. These deeds gave corporate ownership of the lands to the Six Nations of the Iroquois. Individuals were granted leases for a specific plot by the Confederacy. The Iroquois idea that land came into one's possession if cared for and reverted to public control if left alone was used in reservation property law. In one property dispute case, the Iroquois Council sided with a claimant who had made improvements and cultivated the land over one who had left it alone.\n\nThe natural resources of the land are considered to belong to the tribe as a whole and not to those who possessed the particular parcel. The Iroquois leased the right to extract stone from the lands in one instance and fixed royalties on all the production. After natural gas had been discovered on the reservation, the Six Nations took direct ownership of the natural gas wells. They paid persons who had wells on their land compensation only for damages done by gas extraction. This setup closely resembled the precontact land distribution system where the tribes owned the land and distributed it for use, but not unconditional ownership.\n\nMany Iroquois have been fully integrated into the surrounding Western economy of the United States and Canada. For others their economic involvement is more isolated in the reservation. Whether directly involved in the outside economy or not, most of the Iroquois economy is now greatly influenced by national and world economies. The Iroquois have been involved in the steel construction industry for over a hundred years, with many men from the Mohawk nations working on such high-steel projects as the Empire State Building and the World Trade Center.\n\nInside the reservations, which are sometimes isolated from larger cities, the economic situation has often been bleak. For instance, the U.S. side of the Mohawk St. Regis reservation in northern New York has recently had unemployment as high as 46 percent.\n\nBut many reservations have successful businesses. The Seneca reservation contains the City of Salamanca, New York, a center of the hardwoods industry. The Seneca make use of their sovereignty to sell gasoline and cigarettes tax-free and run high-stakes bingo operations. The Senecas have also opened several Indian casinos, the Seneca Niagara Casino in Niagara Falls, New York and one in Salamanca. In 2007 the Seneca opened a third in Buffalo, the Seneca Buffalo Creek Casino.\n\nThe Oneida also operate casinos on their reservations in New York and Wisconsin. The Oneida are one of the largest employers in northeastern Wisconsin with over 3,000 employees, including 975 people in tribal government. The Tribe manages more than $16 million in federal and private grants, and a wide range of programs, including those authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act. The Oneida business ventures have brought millions of dollars into the community and improved the standard of living.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20913864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20913864", "title": "Female", "text": "Female\n\nFemale (♀) is the sex of an organism, or a part of an organism, that produces non-mobile ova (egg cells). Barring rare medical conditions, most female mammals, including female humans, have two X chromosomes. Female characteristics vary between different species with some species containing more well defined female characteristics. Both genetics and environment shape the prenatal development of a female.\n\nThe ova are defined as the larger gametes in a heterogamous reproduction system, while the smaller, usually motile gamete, the spermatozoon, is produced by the male. A female individual cannot reproduce sexually without access to the gametes of a male, and vice versa. Some organisms can also reproduce by themselves in a process known as asexual reproduction. An example of asexual reproduction that some female species can perform is parthenogenesis.\n\nThere is no single genetic mechanism behind sex differences in different species and the existence of two sexes seems to have evolved multiple times independently in different evolutionary lineages. Patterns of sexual reproduction include\n\nOther than the defining difference in the type of gamete produced, differences between males and females in one lineage cannot always be predicted by differences in another. The concept is not limited to animals; egg cells are produced by chytrids, diatoms, water moulds and land plants, among others. In land plants, \"female\" and \"male\" designate not only the egg- and sperm-producing organisms and structures, but also the structures of the sporophytes that give rise to male and female plants.\n\nThe word \"female\" comes from the Latin \"femella\", the diminutive form of \"femina\", meaning \"woman\". It is not etymologically related to the word \"male\", but in the late 14th century the spelling was altered in English to parallel the spelling of \"male\".\n\nA distinguishing characteristic of the class \"Mammalia\" is the presence of mammary glands. The mammary glands are modified sweat glands that produce milk, which is used to feed the young for some time after birth. Only mammals produce milk. Mammary glands are most obvious in humans, as the female human body stores large amounts of fatty tissue near the nipples, resulting in prominent breasts. Mammary glands are present in all mammals, although they are seldom used by the males of the species.\n\nMost mammalian females have two copies of the X chromosome as opposed to the male which carries only one X and one smaller Y chromosome (but some mammals, such as the platypus, have different combinations). To compensate for the difference in size, one of the female's X chromosomes is randomly inactivated in each cell of placental mammals while the paternally derived X is inactivated in marsupials. In birds and some reptiles, by contrast, it is the female which is heterozygous and carries a Z and a W chromosome whilst the male carries two Z chromosomes. Intersex conditions can also give rise to other combinations, such as XO or XXX in mammals, which are still considered as female so long as they do not contain a Y chromosome, except for specific cases of testosterone deficiency/insensitivity in XY individuals while in the womb. However, these conditions frequently result in sterility.\n\nMammalian females bear live young (with the rare exception of monotremes, which lay eggs). Some non-mammalian species, such as guppies, have analogous reproductive structures; and some other non-mammals, such as sharks, whose eggs hatch inside their bodies, also have the appearance of bearing live young.\n\nA common symbol used to represent the female sex is ♀ (Unicode: U+2640 Alt codes: Alt+12), a circle with a small cross underneath. According to Schott, the most established view is that the male and female symbols \"are derived from contractions in Greek script of the Greek names of these planets, namely Thouros (Mars) and Phosphoros (Venus). These derivations have been traced by Renkama who illustrated how Greek letters can be transformed into the graphic male and female symbols still recognised today.\" Thouros was abbreviated by θρ, and Phosphoros by Φ, both in the handwriting of alchemists so somewhat different from the Greek symbols we know. These abbreviations were contracted into the modern symbols.\n\nThe sex of a particular organism may be determined by a number of factors. These may be genetic or environmental, or may naturally change during the course of an organism's life. Although most species with male and female sexes have individuals that are either male or female, hermaphroditic animals have both male and female reproductive organs.\n\nThe sex of most mammals, including humans, is genetically determined by the XY sex-determination system where males have X and Y (as opposed to X and X) sex chromosomes. During reproduction, the male contributes either an X sperm or a Y sperm, while the female always contributes an X egg. A Y sperm and an X egg produce a male, while an X sperm and an X egg produce a female. The ZW sex-determination system, where males have ZZ (as opposed to ZW) sex chromosomes, is found in birds, reptiles and some insects and other organisms. Members of Hymenoptera, such as ants and bees, are determined by haplodiploidy, where most males are haploid and females and some sterile males are diploid. \n\nThe young of some species develop into one sex or the other depending on local environmental conditions, e.g. many crocodilians' sex is influenced by the temperature of their eggs. Other species (such as the goby) can transform, as adults, from one sex to the other in response to local reproductive conditions (such as a brief shortage of males).\n\n\nAyers, Donald M. \"English Words from Latin and Greek Elements\". Second Edition. 1986. University of Arizona Press. United States.\n"}
{"id": "26955543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26955543", "title": "Finns in Switzerland", "text": "Finns in Switzerland\n\nFinns in Switzerland consist of migrants from Finland to Switzerland and their descendants. According to one estimate there are 7,000 Finns living in Switzerland, of whom 4,000 are first generation immigrants and 3,000 are second generation immigrants. Most of the first generation immigrants are women in their 40s and 50s, many of whom immigrated from 1960–70. Most Finns in Switzerland live in the Canton of Zürich.\n\nThe first Finnish schools of Switzerland were located in Bern and Zürich, and opened in 1982. \"Schweizerische Vereinigung der Freunde Finnlands\" (SVFF) began to operate in 1946, and has since published a newspaper called \"Suomen Sanomat\" until it was changed to \"Finnland Magazin\". This newspaper is issued four times in year. \"Sveitsin suomenkielinen kirkollinen toiminta\" (SSKT) organizes Finnish language church activities around Switzerland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1429039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1429039", "title": "Gay Mafia", "text": "Gay Mafia\n\nThe Gay Mafia, Velvet Mafia, gay lobby, Lavender Mafia, Homintern, etc. are pejorative terms for the alleged disproportional behind-the-scene influence of gay rights groups and the LGBT community in politics, media, culture, and everyday life.\n\nAn early use of the term was when the English critic Kenneth Tynan proposed an article to \"Playboy\" editor A.C. Spectorsky in late 1967 on the \"Homosexual Mafia\" in the arts. Spectorsky declined, although he admitted that \"culture hounds were paying homage to faggotismo as they have never done before\".\nTynan allegedly enjoyed cross-dressing himself. \"Playboy\" would subsequently run a panel on gay issues in April 1971.\n\nThe term \"Velvet Mafia\" was first used in an article in the \"Top of the Pop\" column in the entertainment section of the Sunday New York \"Daily News\" in the 1970s by journalist Steven Gaines to describe the executives at the Robert Stigwood Organization, a British film and record company. The phrase was later used by the same writer in a roman à clef about Studio 54 called \"The Club\" in reference to the influential gay crowd that became the club's habitués. This \"mafia\" was said to include homosexual men such as Calvin Klein, Truman Capote, Halston, and Andy Warhol. The term was supposedly tongue-in-cheek.\n\n\"Gay Mafia\" was widely used in the media in the 1980s and 1990s, and could be seen in the pages of the American daily, the \"New York Post\". The term was also used by the British tabloid \"The Sun\" in 1998 in response to what it claimed was sinister dominance by gay men in the Labour Party Cabinet.\n\nThe term \"gay mafia\" may also have gained wider popular prominence after it was used in both a 1995\" Spy\" article and subsequently a 2002 \"Vanity Fair\" article, wherein Michael Ovitz, in an interview, stated that a \"gay mafia\" was largely responsible for his company's failures.\n\nIn January 1999, Ovitz sold his company AMG for an estimated $12 million. But he blamed the downfall of AMG upon a Hollywood cabal supposedly led by Dreamworks cofounder David Geffen (despite the fact that most of its purported members were not actually gay). He later apologized for his comments.\n\nThe TV host Bill Maher also claimed in 2014 that a gay mafia existed. He added his view that \"if you cross them, you do get whacked. I really do.\"\n\nThe \"Lavender Mafia\" has been used to refer to an informal network of gay executives in the entertainment industry. But more generally it refers to Church politics. For example a supposed faction within the leadership and clergy of the Roman Catholic Church that allegedly advocates the acceptance of homosexuality within the Church and its culture. In 2013 Pope Francis claimed there was a \"gay lobby\" within the Vatican in remarks during a meeting held in private with some of the Catholic religious from Latin America, and he was said to have promised to see what could be done to address the issue. In July 2013, he responded directly to journalists' questions. He notably drew a distinction between the problem of lobbying and the sexual orientation of people: \"If a person is gay and seeks God and has good will, who am I to judge?\" \"The problem\", he said, \"is not having this orientation. We must be brothers. The problem is lobbying by this orientation, or lobbies of greedy people, political lobbies, Masonic lobbies, so many lobbies. This is the worse problem.\"\n\nAn early written reference to the term \"Homintern\" can be found in 1937, when the classics scholar Maurice Bowra referred to himself as a member of such a community (Bowra was homosexual). However, there are competing claims about who coined the term - including Jocelyn Brooke and W. H. Auden.\n\n\"Homintern\" was also used by American Senator Joe McCarthy during the McCarthyist scare, who used it to claim that the administrations of Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman, were set on destroying America from within. Attempts were made to link Communism and homosexuality, with \"homintern\" a play on the word \"Comintern\" (the short name of the Communist International). \n\n\"Homintern\" also appeared in a number of mass-circulation magazine articles during the 1960s - such as \"Ramparts\", which in 1966 published an article by Gene Marine about the Homintern. It was also frequently used in the conservative magazine \"National Review\". William F. Buckley, Jr. would warn of the machinations of the Homintern on his TV talk show \"Firing Line\" - feeding the conservative belief by that the Homintern deliberately manipulated culture to encourage homosexuality by promoting camp programs such as the popular 1960s TV series \"Batman\". Such magazine articles were often illustrated with the color lavender and the Homintern was sometimes called \"the lavender conspiracy\". It was subsequently claimed that there was a secret worldwide network of gay art gallery owners, ballet directors, movie producers, record label executives, and photographers who, behind the scenes, determined who would become successful artists, dancers, actors, and models. \n\nThe historian, Michael S. Sherry has used the term \"hominterm discourse\" \"for the untidy bundle of ideas and accusations about the gay creative presence\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31515538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31515538", "title": "Human trafficking in Chad", "text": "Human trafficking in Chad\n\nChad is a source and destination country for children subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically conditions of forced labor and forced prostitution. The country's trafficking problem is primarily internal and frequently involves parents entrusting children to relatives or intermediaries in return for promises of education, apprenticeship, goods, or money; selling or bartering children into involuntary domestic servitude or herding is used as a means of survival by families seeking to reduce the number of mouths to feed. Child trafficking victims are primarily subjected to forced labor as herders, domestic servants, agricultural laborers, or beggars. Child cattle herders follow traditional routes for grazing cattle and at times cross ill-defined international borders into Cameroon, the Central African Republic (CAR), and Nigeria. Underage Chadian girls travel to larger towns in search of work, where some are subsequently subjected to prostitution. Some girls are compelled to marry against their will, only to be forced by their husbands into involuntary domestic servitude or agricultural labor. In past reporting periods, traffickers transported children from Cameroon and the CAR to Chad's oil producing regions for commercial sexual exploitation; it is unknown whether this practice persisted in 2009.\n\nDuring the reporting period, the Government of Chad actively engaged in fighting with anti-government armed opposition groups. Each side unlawfully conscripted, including from refugee camps, and used children as combatants, guards, cooks, and look-outs. The government's conscription of children for military service, however, decreased by the end of the reporting period, and a government-led, UNICEF-coordinated process to identify and demobilize remaining child soldiers in military installations and rebel camps began in mid-2009. A significant, but unknown number of children remain within the ranks of the Chadian National Army (ANT). Sudanese children in refugee camps in eastern Chad were forcibly recruited by Sudanese rebel groups, some of which were backed by the Chadian government during the reporting period.\n\nThe government does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking; however, it is making significant efforts to do so. During the reporting period, the government took steps to investigate and address the problem of forced child labor in animal herding. It also initiated efforts to raise awareness about the illegality of conscripting child soldiers, to identify and remove children from the ranks of its national army, and to demobilize children captured from rebel groups. The government failed, however, to enact legislation prohibiting trafficking in persons and undertook minimal anti-trafficking law enforcement efforts and victim protection activities. The country faces severe constraints including lack of a strong judicial system, destabilizing civil conflicts, and a heavy influx of refugees from neighboring states. U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2 Watchlist\" in 2017.\n\nThe practice of slavery in Chad, as in the Sahel states in general, is an entrenched phenomenon with a long history, going back to the Arab slave trade in the Sahelian kingdoms, and it continues today. \nAs elsewhere in West Africa, the situation reflects an ethnic, racial and religious rift between black, Christian farmers and lighter-skinned, Muslim herdsmen, occasionally flaring up in eruptions of violence or civil unrest.\n\nIn the early 1890s, French military expeditions sent to Chad encountered the forces of Rabih az-Zubayr, who had been conducting slave raids (razzias) in southern Chad throughout the 1890s and had sacked the settlements of Bornu, Baguirmi, and Ouaddai. After years of indecisive engagements, French forces finally defeated Rabih az-Zubayr at the battle of Kousséri in 1900.\nThe colonial authorities of French Chad officially suppressed slavery, but their de facto control over the region was limited. In the huge Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti Region, the handful of French military administrators soon reached a tacit agreement with the inhabitants of the desert; as long as caravan trails remained relatively secure and minimal levels of law and order were met, the military administration (headquartered in Faya Largeau) usually left the people alone. \nIn central Chad, French rule was only slightly more substantive. \nSlave raids continued in the 1920s, and it was reported in 1923 that a group of Senegalese Muslims on their way to Mecca had been seized and sold into slavery. Unwilling to expend the resources required for effective administration, the French government responded with sporadic coercion and a growing reliance on indirect rule through the sultanates.\n\nToday, in the Republic of Chad, slavery persists, but it does not have the same ubiquity as in the western Sahel, e.g. in Mauritania where up to 20% of total population are estimated as living in slavery. \nInstead, contemporary slavery in Chad is mostly limited to child labour, and not to hereditary servitude.\n\nChild slaves, sold by their impoverished parents, are mostly held by Arab-Berber herdsmen. \nThese often impose a new identity on them, \n\nChad's weak judicial system impeded its progress in undertaking anti-trafficking law enforcement efforts. The government failed to prosecute trafficking offenses and convict and punish trafficking offenders during the year. Existing laws do not specifically address human trafficking, though forced prostitution and many types of labor exploitation are prohibited. Title 5 of the Labor Code prohibits forced and bonded labor, prescribing fines of $100 to $1,000; these penalties, which are considered significant by Chadian standards, fail to prescribe a penalty of imprisonment and are not sufficiently stringent to deter trafficking crimes. Penal Code Articles 279 and 280 prohibit the prostitution of children, prescribing punishments of 5 to 10 years' imprisonment and fines up to $2,000 – penalties that are sufficiently stringent, but not commensurate with penalties prescribed for other serious crimes, such as rape. Pimping and owning brothels are also prohibited under Penal Code Articles 281 and 282. The 1991 Chadian National Army Law prohibits the Army's recruitment of individuals below the age of 18. In 2009, the Ministry of Justice, with support from UNICEF, completed drafting revisions to the penal code; several new provisions will prohibit and prescribe punishments for child trafficking and provide protection for victims. The revisions are pending approval by the Supreme Court and the secretary general of the government. The government did not make anti-trafficking law enforcement statistics available, and there is no evidence to suggest the government prosecuted trafficking offenses during the reporting period. It did not provide information on the status of pending cases reported in the previous reporting period. In past reporting periods, the government prosecuted a small number of child trafficking cases using laws against kidnapping, the sale of children, and employing children under 14 years of age, though most magistrates lack understanding of how to apply existing laws to trafficking cases. During the year, police detained an unknown number of Chadian adults suspected of using forced child labor for herding, as well as intermediaries arranging herding jobs for children, but released all suspects after they paid small fines. Some cases were dealt with by traditional forms of justice which varied depending on the religion, ethnicity, and clan affiliation of all parties involved in or affected by the exploitation. The government did not prosecute military officials for conscripting child soldiers, though it notified the ANT during the year that future infractions would be punished with the full weight of the law.\n\nThe Government of Chad did not take adequate steps to ensure that all victims of trafficking received access to protective services during the reporting period. It did, however, make progress in providing protection for child soldiers, some of whom may have been forcibly conscripted, identified within the country. In a June 2009 ceremony, the ANT transferred to UNICEF for care 84 child combatants captured from Chadian rebel groups in early May. In July 2009, representatives of the Ministries of Social Affairs, Defense, and Foreign Affairs led an inter-ministerial mission to the military camp in Moussoro, accompanied by staff from UNICEF and an international NGO, to identify child soldiers captured from rebel units; of the 88 presumed child soldiers, the team identified 51 as children and succeeded in removing 16 of them to UNICEF's care. By the end of 2009, the government and UNICEF identified and transferred to NGO-run rehabilitation and vocational training centers one child soldier from Chadian military ranks and 239 from Chadian rebel groups. The Ministry of Social Action operated a transit center located in Moussouro to screen and provide shelter to demobilized children after they are first released from armed groups. After spending between two days and two weeks at the center, the government transferred the children to rehabilitation centers operated by international NGOs. During the year, the Ministries of Social Affairs and Defense began maintaining files on rehabilitated child soldiers and other child victims of trafficking.\n\nThe government provided few services for trafficking victims other than unlawfully conscripted child soldiers during the reporting period. In 2009, the government continued its efforts to provide minimal assistance to child trafficking victims through its six technical regional committees charged with addressing the worst forms of child labor. These committees – located in N'Djamena, Abeche, and southern towns, with representatives from the Ministries of Justice, Social Affairs and Family, Education, Public Works, Human Rights, and the Judicial Police – encouraged victims to file charges against and assist in the investigation and prosecution of their traffickers. They also referred cases of children forced to herd animals to the judiciary for action. The government sustained a formal system for officials to refer victims to NGOs or international organizations for care; judiciary police or other local authorities are to notify the Ministry of Justice's Child Protection Department, UNICEF, and local NGOs when there is a potential case of child trafficking. The government provided no information, however, on the number of victims it referred to such organizations during the year. Officials did not report encouraging victims to file charges or assist in the investigation and prosecution of their traffickers. The government did not arrest or detain trafficking victims, or prosecute or otherwise penalize identified child victims for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked. Due to weak state entities and a lack of capacity, the government did not allocate any resources for training its officials regarding the identification and treatment of trafficking victims during the reporting period.\n\nThe Chadian government made modest efforts to prevent human trafficking during the year. The government continued to conduct its trafficking efforts according to two internal documents that are annually reviewed and revised – the \"Guide for the Protection of Child Victims of Trafficking\", and the \"Integrated Action Plan to Fight the Worst Forms of Child Labor, Exploitation, and Trafficking (2008-1010)\" – developed by the National Committee to Fight Trafficking and the Directorate of Children in the Ministry of Justice, respectively. While neither plan was formally adopted or launched as originally intended, all relevant government entities follow the work plans outlined in each. The government focused its prevention activities principally on addressing child labor trafficking, as children are the largest group of trafficking victims in Chad. Throughout 2009, an inter-ministerial team visited southern towns to investigate suspected cases of children forced to herd animals and provided a report with recommendations for future action to the Human Rights Ministry. During the year, the government, in partnership with UNICEF and UNFPA, launched several nationwide human rights campaigns that included sensitization for the population on the dangers of giving, renting, or selling one's children into animal herding; these campaigns involved public events, billboards, posters, and the distribution of informational materials. The government also drafted a plan to educate parents on the risks of selling their children; the plan awaits final approval from the Prime Minister and funding. In January 2010, the National School of Administration and Magistracy graduated its first class of 28 labor inspectors; they have not yet been deployed due to lack of funding. The country's 25 existing inspectors and 59 assistance inspectors lacked the resources to fulfill their mandate and the Ministry of Labor provided no information on the number of child labor inspections carried out or the number of children, if any, removed or assisted as the result of such inspections. Beginning in August 2009, the Ministry of Foreign Affair's Military Coordinator led an awareness raising delegation composed of officers from the ANT, the Nomadic Guard, Directorate General of Security Services for National Institutions, and the Gendarmerie, along with civilian government officials and representatives of UNICEF, UNDP, the UN peacekeeping operation, and diplomatic missions, to the four headquarters locations of the government's armed forces in Abeche, N'Djamena, Moussoro, and Mongo. The Military Coordinator, a brigadier general, delivered a consistent message denouncing the use of child soldiers, outlining the government's intolerance of the practice, and stating that the government would investigate and prosecute anyone implicated in the use of child soldiers. The government made no effort to reduce the demand for commercial sex acts or forced labor during the reporting period. In July 2009, the government ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol.\n\n"}
{"id": "19986297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19986297", "title": "Israel Amateur Radio Club", "text": "Israel Amateur Radio Club\n\nThe Israel Amateur Radio Club (IARC) (in Hebrew, אגודת חובבי הרדיו בישראל) is a national non-profit organization for amateur radio enthusiasts in Israel. The organization uses IARC as its official international abbreviation, based on the English translation of the Hebrew name. IARC promotes amateur radio by sponsoring amateur radio operating awards and radio contests. The IARC operates a QSL bureau for those members who regularly communicate with amateur radio operators in other countries. The IARC represents the interests of Israeli amateur radio operators and shortwave listeners before Israeli and international telecommunications regulatory authorities. IARC is the national member society representing Israel in the International Amateur Radio Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "57729253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57729253", "title": "Julia Wilbur", "text": "Julia Wilbur\n\nJulia Wilbur (August 8, 1815 – June 6, 1895) was a Quaker abolitionist, suffragist and nurse. She kept a diary during the Civil War and in it she records events of historical significance as well as everyday happenings that provide a picture into life during that time. She is noted to have worked alongside Susan B. Anthony to establish voting rights for women. She was an early member and later secretary of the Rochester Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society which helped fund Frederick Douglass' newspaper. \n\nJulia Ann Wilbur was born on August 8, 1815 in Milan, New York, the third child of Stephen Wilbur and Mary Lapham. She attended Nine Partners Boarding School in Dutchess County, New York from 1829 to 1831. Her mother died in 1835 and her father soon after remarried. She remained at home helping to raise her siblings before she moved to Rochester, New York to become a teacher.\n"}
{"id": "16082939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16082939", "title": "Kajakse language", "text": "Kajakse language\n\nKajakse (also known as Kadjakse, Kajeske, Kujarke, Mini, Kawa Tadimini) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in eastern Chad.\n\nAlio, Khalil. 2004a. Préliminaires à une étude de la langue kajakse d'Am-Dam, de toram du Salamat, d'ubi du Guéra et de masmaje du Batha-Est (Tchad). In: Gábor Takács (ed.), Egyptian and Semito-Hamitic (Afro-Asiatic) studies: in memoriam W. Vycich. 229–285. Leiden: Brill.\n\nDoornbos, Paul, and M. Lionel Bender. 1983. Languages of Wadai-Darfur. In: M. Lionel Bender (ed.), Nilo-Saharan Language Studies, 43–79. African Studies Center, Michigan State University.\n\nMarti, Marianne, Calvain Mbernodji, and Katharina Wolf. 2007. L'enquete sociolinguistique des langues Birguit - Kadjakse - Masmedje du Tchad. SIL Electronic Survey Reports 2007-018. Dallas: SIL International. Online: http://sil.org/silesr/abstract.asp?ref=2007-018.\n"}
{"id": "57271631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57271631", "title": "La Manada sexual abuse case", "text": "La Manada sexual abuse case\n\nLa Manada (wolfpack) case is a case of sexual violence that happened in Pamplona, Navarre, Spain on July 7, 2016 during San Fermín celebrations. A group of five men sexually abused an 18-year-old woman from Madrid in a building hallway at the city centre of Pamplona. The victim accused them of rape.\n\nThe case had strong media coverage because there were video recordings of the events and the commentaries on social networks. The accused from Seville, including a member of the Civil Guard and another of the Spanish Army, were arrested and tried. The judgment was announced on April 26 2018 with the court clearing the accused of rape, finding them guilty of sexual abuse instead. One of the three magistrates did not agree with his two colleagues and voted for their acquittal.\n\nIn the early hours of July 7, an 18-year-old woman reported a rape to the Police of Pamplona, perpetrated by five young people. The woman, who was going to her car to sleep, was accompanied during a part of the journey by the men. She alleged that they pushed her into a doorway of a building. While some committed the crime, others recorded it on their mobile phones. She was later abandoned in the doorway and her mobile phone was stolen.\n\nThe perpetrators shared the video of the attack in a WhatsApp group called \"La Manada\" (\"the wolfpack\"). Seven clips of this video were studied by the police in a 200-page report in which it is reported that the woman maintained a \"passive and neutral\" attitude, that her attitude was not \"participatory\" and that there was \"humiliation and vexation\" toward her.\n\nThe prosecution was represented by the public prosecutor, the victim, the City of Pamplona, and the Government of Navarre. The tribunal considered in the sentence that the victim's testimony was objectively credible, was consistent throughout the investigation, did not introduce \"improbable elements\" and did not have \"spurious motives\" to make the accusation. It considered that there was \"minimal violence\" and \"very serious intimidation that prevented the defense of the victim\" surrounded by the five men, and that they left her helpless after the event because they took her cell phone. The defendant argued that it was group consensual sex and she had made the accusation for fear that the video could be seen by other people.\n\nOn Thursday, April 26, 2018, five months after the trial, the Provincial Court of Navarre published its judgment. The court sentenced the five accused to nine years in prison for continued sexual abuse, although they did not find them guilty of sexual aggression (which would have meant 12 to 15 years of prison). The sentence is not final. \nIn Spain, the crime of sex without consent has 2 legal categories, sexual aggression or sexual abuse. Sexual aggression is defined as necessitating violence (\"violencia\") or intimidation (\"intimidación\"), sexual abuse is without violence, however there are controversies regarding the interpretation of these legal terms by the public; \"intimidation\" is more narrow than abusing superiority or influence over the victim.\n\nAfter the sentence, demonstrations took place in many Spanish cities as a sign of disagreement with the conviction for its 'leniency', as well as the expression of disagreement of different relevant political and social figures.\n\nFeminist associations denounced the sentence, valuing it as especially negative because it can be \"very bad precedent\" giving the context of the events. They also pointed out that once again women are held responsible for the assaults they suffer. Since 22 June 2018 they are out prison under bail after paying 6,000 euros. American actresses Jessica Chastain and Rose McGowan also expressed their condemnation of the sentence.\n\nDuring the defendants' parole awaiting the outcome to their appeal, four of them were subject to prosecution for another sex abuse case involving an unconscious 21-year-old woman lying on the defendants' van. In late October, the convicts were declared \"persona non grata\" in Pozoblanco, Cordova, hometown of the victim of the male group's alleged assault in 2016, now under investigation. In October 2018, the soldier Alfonso Jesús Cabezuelo, one of the individuals condemned in the case, was expelled from the army months after his conviction.\n\nIn late November 2018, the same judge panel in charge of \"La Manada\" case convicted a man from Lodosa, Navarre, of occasional 'mistreatment' and a 10 month prison term after considering it proved that \"he attempted to kill her with a knife and by strangulation while she struggled for life, with their young children watching, but eventually giving up\"; the sentence cited the man's mental state as a mitigating factor. Amnesty International has denounced the hurdles found by the victims of gender aggression in the Spanish justice system. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "21589693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21589693", "title": "Lankapalli Bullayya", "text": "Lankapalli Bullayya\n\nLankapalli Bullayya (1918–1992) was an innovative Indian educator and vice-chancellor of Andhra University, Andhra Pradesh. He was the first Dalit to be appointed vice-chancellor of an Indian university.\n\nBullayya was born in 1918 in Peravali, near Vemuru, Guntur district, Andhra Pradesh. He had to travel long distances to receive his education. Bullayya received a B.A. degree with honours from Andhra University, and served as principal of a B.Ed. college in Kurnool. He later became a District Educational Officer in Kurnool, Krishna and other districts and served in the Education Department as a senior-level officer. After the formation of Andhra State in 1953, Bullayya was appointed Director of Public Instruction. As Director of Higher Education for the government of Andhra Pradesh, he was instrumental in bringing about educational reform.\n\nHe considered the 10+2+3 plan in Andhra Pradesh before it was recommended by the Kothari Commission, and was given the responsibility of strengthening the educational system from primary to university level. In November 1968, Bullaya was appointed vice-chancellor, continuing in that post until December 1974. He sympathised with socially- and economically-disadvantaged students, and was concerned about their welfare. Academic, curricular and examination reforms (among them the introduction of the semester system), abolition of external examinations and the detention system, and continuous assessment marked his tenure. During this period the departments of education, geography, biochemistry, human genetics and physical anthropology were established along with foreign-language courses (German, French and Russian).\n\nSix affiliated colleges were permitted to establish postgraduate departments in selected subjects for the purpose of decentralisation. Coaching classes for civil-service examinations and the Continuing Education Scheme were introduced. For the first time in South India, a School of Correspondence Courses was established due to Bullayya's efforts. He was an able administrator and maintained a rapport with the central and state governments, directed toward the betterment of the university.\nWhen university buildings were badly damaged after the 1970 cyclone which struck Visakhapatnam Bullayya showed photographs of the damage to University Grants Commission authorities in New Delhi, seeking grants for the repair of the buildings. The UGC granted funds not only for repairs, but for constructing new buildings.\n\nBullayya later served at the Union Public Service Commission in an advisory capacity on behalf of Telugu-speaking candidates at the UPSC Interview Board. He was chairman of the Andhra Pradesh and all-India units of the Boy Scouts and a director on the Andhra Bank Board. Bullayya's wife, Samyuktha, was also an educator and former chairman of the Andhra Pradesh Housing Board. His brother's sons Lankapally Ramesh Babu and Suresh Babu are public servants in Sanjeeva Reddy Nagar, Hyderabad. Dr. Bullayya College at Visakhapatnam was named after him. He founded Dr. V.S. Krishna Government College in \nremembrance of his predecessor, vice-chancellor Vasireddy Sri Krishna, and was more concerned about that school than the one named after himself. A bust of Bullayya has been installed in the School of Distance Education in Visakhapatnam.\n"}
{"id": "42232433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42232433", "title": "List of detention sites in the United States", "text": "List of detention sites in the United States\n\nThis is a list of detention camps holding immigrants in the United States. The United States maintains the largest immigration detention infrastructure in the world, which by the end of fiscal year 2007 included 961 sites either directly owned by or under contract with the federal government, according to the Freedom of Information Act Office of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). During the period 2007-2009, no less than 363 detention sites were used.\n\n"}
{"id": "448951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448951", "title": "List of trolleybus systems", "text": "List of trolleybus systems\n\nThis is a list of cities where trolleybuses operate, or operated in the past, as part of the public transport system. The original list has been divided to improve user-friendliness and to reduce article size. Separate lists—separate articles in Wikipedia—have been made for the following countries:\n\n\nThis page also provides references that are applicable to all parts of the complete list.\n\nBold typeface for a location city indicates an existing trolleybus system, currently in operation (temporary suspensions not counted), or a new system currently under construction.\n\n\n\n\nNotes for the two tunnel trolleybus lines:\n\nBoth lines are part of the Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route. This passes through Chūbu-Sangaku National Park (also known in English as \"Japan Alps National Park\").\n\n\n\n\"Confirmation is lacking\" (Tarkhov and Merzlov).\n\n\nGoods (freight) line (trolleytruck):\n\n\nБаранавiчы / Барановичи (Baranavichy / Baranovichi)\n\nБарысаў / Borisov (Barysaw / Borisov)\n\nЛіда / Лида (Lida)\n\nМаладзечна / Молодечно (Maladzechna / Molodechno)\n\nНаваполацк / Новополоцк (Navapolatsk / Novopolotsk)\n\nОрша (Orsha)\n\nПінск / Пинск (Punsk)\n\nПолацк / Полоцк (Polatsk / Polotsk)\n\nСалігорск / Солигорск (Salihorsk / Soligorsk)\n\n\n\nSee \"Asia\" section of list, above. Although trolleybuses served the European part of Istanbul, the country's two other trolleybus systems were located in the Asian part of Turkey.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35644652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35644652", "title": "Logorik people", "text": "Logorik people\n\nThe Logorik are an ethnic group in the southern part of Sudan. They are one of seven distinct ethnicities comprising the Daju people. They speak the Logorik language, a Nilo-Saharan language. They live in the north, central Nuba Mountains in the Jebel Liguri hills area northeast of Kadugli. The population of this ethnic group likely exceeds 2,000. \n\nIt is generally agreed that the Logorik people came from a very early migration (perhaps 2,000 years ago) out of the Daju Urheimat in the Marrah Mountains. There they carved out their own small territory in the midst of the original inhabitants of the eastern Nuba Mountains, the Kordofanian tribes, as well as amongst later migrating tribal/linguistic groupings: the Nyimang tribes, the Temein tribes, and the Kadugli tribes. The migration of the Hill Nubian tribes in the Nuba Hills is generally seen as coming after the main Daju migration. The Nuba Mountains have generally been an area of \"retreat\" for persecuted groups seeking security hence the significant linguistic diversity.\n"}
{"id": "30561635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30561635", "title": "MacDowell Club", "text": "MacDowell Club\n\nThe MacDowell Clubs in the United States were established at the turn of the twentieth century to honor internationally recognized American composer Edward MacDowell. They became part of a broader social movement to promote music and other art forms in America.\n\nThe first MacDowell music club was established in 1896 in Boston by Edward MacDowell's students — \"The MacDowell Club of Boston\" (Edith Noyes Greene was one of the founders). Club in Providence, Rhode Island was founded in 1901, and another one, in Baker City, Oregon, in 1903, another club formed in Conneaut, Ohio in 1903. The \"MacDowell Club of Canton\" was founded in 1908; its members donated funds for construction of the Gail Watson Cable Recital Hall. The \"MacDowell Club of Allied Arts of Los Angeles\" was established in 1918. In Cincinnati, not a club, but the \"Cincinnati MacDowell Society\" was founded in 1913, which formed significant ties with the MacDowell Colony.\n\nAt the peak of their popularity before and during the World War II, about 400 independent clubs functioned in the nation. In 1955, Marian MacDowell wrote in a letter, \"I suppose in the last forty years there must have been nearly 400; probably there are 300 now.\" War-time entry of women into the workforce and later social developments decreased the membership, and combined with advances in transportation and communication diminished the role of MacDowell Clubs both as social hubs and entertainment venues. In 2008, fifteen MacDowell Clubs continued to operate, including, in Altus, Oklahoma; Dyersburg, Tennessee; Jackson, Mississippi; Louisville, Kentucky; Canton, Ohio; Chickasha, Oklahoma; Janesville, Wisconsin; and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. As of 2015, such clubs, as the \"MacDowell Club of Mountain Lakes\" in New Jersey (established in 1916 by Lazelle Crooks Whitmore), the \"MacDowell Club of Allied Arts\" in Oklahoma City (established in 1920 by Hyla Florence Long), the \"MacDowell Music Club in Janesville\", Wisconsin, the \"MacDowell Music Club of Chattanooga\" (founded in 1916), and the \"MacDowell Club of Milwaukee\" (established in 2008) were functioning.\n\nA typical small club gathering would feature a privately held meeting with invited talks, piano and vocal solos and duets of local performers. Bigger clubs were able to organize academic lectures, concerts, recitals (including Marian MacDowell’s or other well-known national performers) and art exhibitions opened to the general public, as well as private dinners, pageants, and balls. Several organizations, including clubs in New York City, Los Angeles, Austin, Illinois, Green Bay, Wisconsin, Canton, Ohio, Chattanooga, Tennessee, Oklahoma City, and Altus, Oklahoma, among others, established student funds and scholarships for youth and developed outreach programs through Junior MacDowell Clubs while continuing to support financially the MacDowell Colony. Several clubs established their own choruses, as in New York City, Boston and Milwaukee; other — vocal ensembles. In Boston, the MacDowell Club Orchestra consisting mainly of amateur and semiprofessional female musicians gave performances in Copley Hall; the MacDowell clubs of New York, Milwaukee, and Los Angeles also formed their own orchestras. All employed well-known conductors, such as Georges Longy, and Arthur Fiedler in Boston; in New York, orchestra was formed in 1929, led by David Mannes, a concertmaster of the New York Symphony Orchestra, and held concerts in Madison Square Garden and the Metropolitan Opera House.\n\nAll clubs were responsible for adopting their own bylaws and acted differently in defining their membership: some were accepting musicians only, as the \"MacDowell Club of Green Bay in Wisconsin\", or the \"Macdowell Club of Mountain Lakes\" in New Jersey, other subscribed to an allied arts organization philosophy championed by Edward MacDowell as the \"MacDowell Club of New York City\"; some were operating strictly as women's clubs, i.e., the \"MacDowell Club of Mountain Lakes\", the \"MacDowell Club of Los Angeles\", or the \"MacDowell Club of Milwaukee\", while other accepted men, as clubs in Boston and New York did. However, most of the MacDowell clubs were \"female-only organizations.\" Many clubs joined the National Federation of Music Clubs.\n\nThe MacDowell Club of New York City was established in 1905 and disbanded in 1942. It was among the biggest clubs by the same name around the country honoring the legacy of Edward MacDowell and supporting the MacDowell Colony, the artists’ retreat in Peterborough, New Hampshire. The Club funded and awarded a resident scholarship at the MacDowell Colony and made regular financial contributions.\n\nThe club charter declared the main goals of the club as following:\n\nIn a few years the membership of the club grew to 600. Club membership included writers, musicians, performing and visual artists, theate and film actors, sculptors, and architects: Hamlin Garland, Richard Watson Gilder, Edwin Arlington Robinson, James Harvey Robinson, John Dewey, Leonora Speyer, Herbert Adams, Robert Aitken, Hobart Nichols, Irving Ramsey Wiles, Ivan Olinsky, F. Luis Mora, Robert Henri, George Bellows, Louise Homer, David Bispham, Katherine Bacon (1896-1952), Francis Stetson Rogers (1870-1951), Charles Coburn, Harriet Rogers (Otis) Dellenbaugh, Beatrice Cameron, Harold Van Buren Magonigle, among others.\n\nThe MacDowell Club was initially located in the Carnegie Hall studio (1905-1909), then at the old Metropolitan Opera House (1909-1911). In 1911, the Club moved to a spacious building at 108 W 55th Street, which featured a large vaulted gallery.\n\nIn 1924, the MacDowell Club purchased the old converted Marquand stable — located at 166 East 73rd Street — from the Joseph Pulitzer estate. Richard Morris Hunt had designed the original building for art collector Henry Gurdon Marquand in 1883. Shortly after Marquand's death in 1902, the building had been sold to Joseph Pulitzer, then publisher of the \"New York World\", who lived several blocks to the east at 73rd and Park. A fire swept the building in 1935 and destroyed prints by Whistler, Hassam and others.\n\nIn 1979, the Landmarks Preservation Commission proposed 12 of the 13 stable and garage buildings on the block for designation, excluding the Marquand building. A year later Halina Rosenthal, head of the block association and later founder of the Friends of the Upper East Side Historic Districts, lobbied the commission to include the Marquand stable in the designation, which it did in 1981.\n\nThe MacDowell Chorus was formed in November 1909, under the direction of Kurt Schindler. Two months after its founding, Gustav Mahler, then the conductor of The New York Philharmonic Orchestra, invited the chorus to perform with the orchestra. In 1912, Schindler changed the name to \"Schola Cantorum.\" Schindler continued to conduct the Schola Cantorum until January 1926, when he accepted an offer to take charge of the Roxy Theatre. Hugh Ross later became the director of the chorus.\n\nThe MacDowell Club established a scholarship fund to support aspiring talented young artists, and funded a resident scholarship in Professor George Baker's Drama Workshop at Harvard University, and a resident fellowship at the MacDowell Colony.\n\nIn 1911, John W. Alexander, the Club's second president, instituted a revolutionary for the time change by introducing an \"open exhibition\", or \"no jury\" policy. Group of artists started to select works for exhibition in the MacDowell Club galleries by themselves. Many talented, but previously unrecognized artists, such as Stuart David, Edward Hopper, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, among others, received an opportunity to promote their works.\n\nAmong the notable art exhibitors were:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10492619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10492619", "title": "Narikurava", "text": "Narikurava\n\nThe Narikurava (IAST: ) is an indigenous community from Indian state of Tamil Nadu.\n\nThe main occupation of the people who originally belong to the indigenous tribes, is hunting. But as they were prohibited entry into the forests to pursue this livelihood, they were forced to take up other alternatives such as selling beaded ornaments to survive. Hence, they migrate from place to place to find a market for their beads. Children accompany the adults wherever they go, which means they never get to attend school.\n\nDuring British rule in India they were placed under Criminal Tribes Act 1871, hence stigmatized for a long time, after Independence. However, they were denotified in 1952, though the stigma continues.\n\nThe word \"Narikurava\" is a combination of the Tamil words \"Nari\" and \"Kurava\" meaning \"jackal people\" or the \"fox people\". This appellation has been bestowed upon them due to their adeptness in hunting and trapping jackals.\n\nAs per a theory propounded by Werth in 1966 and Fraser, authorities on the gypsies of Europe, believes that the Domar are the ancestors of the Romani people and therefore, the Narikuravas are related to the Romani. while Edgar Thurston feels that they are related to the Khonds of Orissa.\n\nThe Narikuravas speak an Indo-Aryan language called Vagriboli. SIL Ethnologue classifies it as a dialect of the Domari language.\n\nDue to this reason, they are also known as Vagris or Vagrivalas. Almost all Narikuravas are well-versed in Tamil. However, most of the Narikurava liturgical hymns and folk songs are in Vagriboli.\n\nAlthough all Kuravars come under one roof based on their common clan name kuravars they were broadly sub-divided into two sub-divisions: the buffalo-sacrificers and Nandevala or goat-sacrificers. But they are Commonly classified based on the region they originate from. The Seliyos have only one sub-sect—the Vithiyo.\n\nEach Narikurava clan has a bundle of clothes called \"sami-mootai\" meaning \"God's bundle\". It is filled with blood of animals sacrificed by the Narikuravas and clothes dipped in them. The \"sami-mootai\" of one clan must not be touched by members of another clan. On the death of the head of the family, his eldest son inherits the \"sami-mootai\". The prestige a clan-leader holds depends on the antiquity of his \"sami-mootai\".\n\nSilambam is a stick fighting style that supposedly originated from the Kurinji hills some 5000 years ago, where the native Narikuravar used bamboo staves called Silambamboo to defend themselves against wild animals.\n\nThe major issues which confront Narikuravas are poverty, illiteracy, diseases and discrimination.\n\nThere has been discrimination of Narikuravas since ancient times. Due to their consumption of animals tabooed by settled Hindu communities and other habits, they are considered untouchable and are excluded from streets inhabited by upper castes. This has led to protests and resentment from the community. However, the Narikuravas are yet to be recognized as a scheduled tribe.\n\nHigh crime rates and unemployment are other problems which afflict the Narikurava community. The proscription of fox-hunting as well as killing endangered species of birds and wildlife have depleted the Narikuravas of their traditional sources of livelihood. As a result, unemployed Narikurava youth are taking to crime and illegal activities. There have also been instances when Narikurava have been arrested for the possession of unregistered firearms as country rifles which are banned according to the Indian laws.\n\nOn 1996, a social-welfare organization named Narikurava Seva Sangam was formed in order to educate Narikurava children and facilitate them to lead a settled life. Other social-welfare organizations, too, have poured in their efforts to improve the lives of the Narikuravas. In May 2008, the creation of a Welfare Board for the Narikuravas headed by the Backward Classes Minister was authorized by the State Government. Steady progress is being made in educating Narikuravas and assimilating them into society. The demand for the Welfare Board and remove them from the Backward Class list and include them into Scheduled Tribes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44339024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44339024", "title": "Netcare System", "text": "Netcare System\n\nThe Netcare System is part of the \"Digital India\" campaign introduced by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The program is designed to allow access to modern software technology by those in rural areas, villages, and other remote parts of India. A major focus is enabling poor and rural students to use the Internet and related computer tech and information technology.\n"}
{"id": "14628083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14628083", "title": "Oxford Round Table", "text": "Oxford Round Table\n\nThe Oxford Round Table is a series of interdisciplinary conferences organised in Oxford (UK) by a US-based (currently California-based) educational organisation. \n\nThe company is not affiliated with the University of Oxford, which has stated that events such as the Oxford Round Table are \"external to the university\" and \"not, as such, authorised or endorsed by the university.\" The company has been accused of misrepresenting its relationship with the university.\n\nThe first meeting of the Oxford Round Table was held at St. Peter's College (Oxford) in 1989, sponsored by the Norham Centre for Leadership Studies of the University of Oxford under the direction of Vivian Williams and by Virginia Tech, under the direction of Kern Alexander. Subsequent Oxford Round Table conferences have been held at Harris Manchester College, Trinity College, Exeter College, Oriel College, Lincoln College, and the Oxford Union. \n\nThe Oxford Round Table brings together scholars and others from a variety of backgrounds (new professors and PhD students, college presidents and deans, school administrators, religious leaders) to discuss research on specific topics usually related to public policy. In its early years, the conference was held every other year, and the organisation financed the attendance of participants by raising funds itself (more than £80,000 in 1993). By 2009, the ORT was charging attendees.\n\nOne of the earliest conferences, in 1993, was on the links between education and the business sector. It brought together education ministers from major developing and transition countries, representatives of major multinationals (such as Apple, Boeing, BP, and Honeywell), US state officials, and the World Bank. A major highlight was a paper by Edward Dneprov, education minister of Russia, on education reform there. A 1993 article in the \"Times Higher Education Supplement\" noted that \"the Oxford conferences are going very well\" and had gained \"international interest.\"\n\nThe Oxford Round Table publishes an online journal, titled \"The Forum on Public Policy: A Journal of the Oxford Round Table\". The mission of the journal, according to its website, is \"to disseminate knowledge with regard to salient issues in public affairs.\" \n\nMcGill/Queen's University Press published a volume of papers from a 2003 conference, \"The University: International Expectations\", on public administration issues related to higher education. Another edited volume on primary (precollegiate) school choices in America emerged from, among other sources, a 2003 meeting on \"Choice in Education.\"\n\nFor most of its history the Oxford Round Table has been an American organisation run by members of the Alexander family and variously headquartered in Kentucky, Illinois, Florida, and California. Kern Alexander, Professor of Excellence at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, founded the Oxford International Round Table on Education Policy in 1989. However, it was not incorporated until 1994, when it was established in Florida as a for-profit corporation, with Alexander as president. It was administratively dissolved in 1996. Alexander also incorporated the Oxford Round Table, Inc., a Florida for-profit corporation; it was established and dissolved at the same time as the Oxford International Round Table on Education Policy.\n\nIn 1995, the Oxford Round Table, Inc., a for-profit Kentucky corporation, was incorporated by Samual K. Alexander III (son of Kern Alexander). It was administratively dissolved in 1998 and reinstated in 2006. This corporation dissolved itself 22 September 2008.\n\nIn 1998, the Oxford Round Table, Inc., a for-profit corporation, was incorporated in Illinois by F. King Alexander, (son of Kern Alexander and presently the President of LSU). It was involuntarily dissolved in 2000.\n\nIn December 2001, the non-profit Oxford Round Table of Godstow Hall, Inc., was incorporated in Kentucky by several members of the Alexander family. In May 2007, the non-profit Oxford Round Table, Inc., NFP, was established in Illinois. It changed its name to Oxford Round Table, North America, Inc., NFP, in October 2008. In July 2008, the non-profit Oxford Round Table, Ltd., was established in the United Kingdom., went dormant a year later and was \"struck off the books\" the following year.\n\nIn the 2007 annual report of the Kentucky for-profit Oxford Round Table, Inc., Kern Alexander was listed as company president. As of the 2008 annual report, J.C. Buckman was listed as president.\n\nIn 2008, it filed for a non-profit charter in the United Kingdom. It was dissolved in 2011.\n\nA 2009 report cited critics who claimed that the Oxford Round Table \"does not make its lack of academic connection [to Oxford University] clear.\" The article noted that pictures of Oxford University are used liberally on the ORT webpage, and quoted a number of ORT attendees who believed they had been invited by Oxford University. One professor expressed \"surprise\" when she learned that the ORT was not affiliated with Oxford University and concluded that \"my conference funds would be best targeted towards a more appropriate venue.\"\n\nIn 2007, \"Times Higher Education\" reported that Oxford Round Table had been criticised on the forums of the \"Chronicle of Higher Education\" website by people who said it was trading on the name of Oxford University, and failed to properly inform people invited that it had no formal academic links to the university. Other criticisms were that its selection criteria were poor and that it was a \"vanity conference.\"\n\nThe University told the newspaper that such external events were \"not, as such, authorised or endorsed by the university.\" The principal of Harris Manchester College said that although the college provided the company with an office, \"we don't run the ORT in any sense,\" and that as far as he was aware, all ORT participants were satisfied. The company defended its selection criteria, and reported that its disclaimer, which is on its website, uses \"the exact wording that was provided to us by the legal office of the University of Oxford several years ago.\" A spokeswoman dismissed the critics as \"a few nameless bloggers.\"\n\nThe ORT sued Sloan Mahone, a lecturer in the history of medicine at Oxford, after she emailed invitees and posted on the \"Chronicle of Higher Education\" website. The ORT complained that Mahone had described the ORT as a \"scam, a \"complete fraud\", and \"a tourist venture, not a prestigious academic event\". An attempt by the Oxford Round Table, Inc., to sue Mahone for libel in the Kentucky courts failed on jurisdiction grounds, and the company threatened to take legal action in the UK. The company dropped the action after the researcher hired her own lawyer.\n\n"}
{"id": "55971592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55971592", "title": "Pat Jasan", "text": "Pat Jasan\n\nPat Jasan is an anti-drug organisation founded in 2014 in Kachin State Myanmar. The organisation has been described as \"vigilantes\", \"an ethnic Kachin public movement\", \"militant christians\" a \"civilian movement\" and Myanmar's \"largest civilian uprising in nearly a decade\".\n\nThe organisation originated from the Kachin Baptist Convention and Catholic Churches in Kachin State and current membership is around 100,000 individuals.\n\nPat Jasan have rehabilitation centres in Kachin and Shan State, numbering at least 28 From 2014 to 2016 the group claimed to have taken in over 10,470 individuals addicted to drugs (559 women and 9891 men) and cured over 7000 of them through the camps.\n\nThe group have been known to flog drug users.\n\nThe group conduct poppy field destruction activities in Kachin State, which has led to stand-offs with Burmese Security forces. Pat Jasan claimed to have cleared 2500 acres and 1500 of Poppies, in 2015 and 2016 respectively.\n\nIn early 2016, a standoff occurred between members of Pat Jasan who were planning to destroy poppies Waingmaw, Burmese security forces and farmers. On January 20, Pat Jasan members formally requested security from the Kachin State government for their planned eradication efforts and met with the state minister of border affairs. Following this, the group were given permission and a security force from local police. On February 3, 200 Pat Jasan members, 70 soldiers and 30 police travelled to the Sadaung-Kambaiti area of Waingmaw. On February 4, Pat Jasan members were attacked by around 250 locals.\n\nAfter being informed that roughly 1000 armed farmers were waiting for them in the Sadaung-Kambaiti area of Waingmaw township, Pat Jasan called a temporary halt to their eradication effort, on grounds of safety. By mid February around 1200 Pat Jasan activists had camped at Naungmaw village, but as they tried to move to Kambaiti and Sadon on February 16 they were blocked by military and police for security reasons.\n\nBy February 24, the numbers of Pat Jasan activists were around 2400 and they re-launched their campaign to eradicate poppies, with 200 members of the security forces including police, firemen and military troops protecting them. \nThe eradication campaign led to outbreaks of violence from armed farmers.\n"}
{"id": "49406109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49406109", "title": "Photography Biennale of the contemporary Arab world", "text": "Photography Biennale of the contemporary Arab world\n\nThe Photography Biennale of the contemporary Arab world is a cultural event, established by the Arab World Institute and the Maison européenne de la photographie (European Photography Institute) whose aim is to develop a unique panorama of the contemporary photographers operating in – and on – the Arab world since the early 2000s.\n\nCurated by Gabriel Bauret, the first edition took place from 11 November 2016 to 17 January 2017 and aimed at showcasing a range of diverse images and points of view, between the Arab world and Europe.\n\nThe event took place in the 4th arrondissement of Paris, between the Arab World Institute and the Maison européenne de la photographie and six others places, such as the Cité Internationale des Arts of Paris, the Mairie du 4ème arrondissement, Photo12 Galerie, Galerie Basia Embiricos, Galerie Boa and Graine de Photographe.\n\nThe next edition will be held in November 2017.\n\nFor this first edition, the Biennale presented works signed by about 50 artists.\n"}
{"id": "42033162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42033162", "title": "Ralmil", "text": "Ralmil\n\nRalmil clan is a part of jatt caste in Doaba, Punjab, and in Panjab (Pakistan). Originally they are from Panjour (Panjoura) village (Punjab).\n"}
{"id": "52358196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52358196", "title": "Rifa-e-Aam Club", "text": "Rifa-e-Aam Club\n\nThe Rifa-e-Aam Club is a historic building in Lucknow, India. It is best known as the place where the Progressive Writers Movement was created.\n\nThe building was constructed around 1860 by the Nawab of Awadh, who intended it to be a centre of the royalty's literary life in the region. According to a local historian, the name derived from \"rifa\" or \"happiness\" and \"aam\" or \"common\", and suggested that the club offered happiness to the common man. The club was open to everybody, and was thus a symbol of rebellion against local British clubs, which did not permit Indians to enter. In subsequent years it became what \"The Economist\" described as \"an important nationalist hangout\". It was one of the centres of nationalist, anti-British intellectual activity, frequented by individuals such as Munshi Premchand and Mohammad Amir Ahmad Khan. In the 1900s it hosted meetings of the All-India Muslim League. The club hosted a meeting of the Indian National Congress and the Muslim League which led to the Lucknow Pact of 1916, which was also signed on the premises. Mahatma Gandhi visited the building to give a speech on Hindu-Muslim unity on 15 October 1920 and on 26 April 1922 Jawaharlal Nehru and Vallabhbhai Patel made speeches at the club encouraging local people to intensify the Swadeshi movement. The Progressive Writers Movement was created in 10 April 1936.\n\nThe building has not been well maintained in the decades since; one wing has become a hospital, another has been abandoned, and the courtyard is a rubbish dump. The poor state of the building has led to local activism trying to get it recognized and protected as a heritage landmark by the government.\n"}
{"id": "33883503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33883503", "title": "Russians in Nepal", "text": "Russians in Nepal\n\nRussians in Nepal from a tiny community consisting of expatriates from Russia as well as Nepalese people of Russian descent. \nRussian expatriates, began trickling into Nepal at the end of the 1960s. Nepalese men, who went to pursue their university education in the Soviet Union, began returning home, bringing their Russian wives with them whom they married while they were studying abroad. That trend continued, bringing more Russian women to Nepal, as the number of Nepali students on scholarships at Soviet universities continued to rise through the 1970s and 1980s and by the 1990s there were 24 families of Nepalis with Russian spouses settled in Nepal, the vast majority in Kathmandu. \n\nAs more Nepalis returned home in the wake of the collapse of the Soviet Union, that number swelled, reaching 58 at its peak in the early 2000s. Today, with immigration drawing increasing numbers of educated Nepalis abroad, many of the younger families have left, currently leaving roughly 25 Russian women settled in Kathmandu.\nAmong the main concerns of the Russian women living in Nepal was ensuring that their children grew up with a sense of the Russian language and culture. These needs soon gave rise to the Russian Culture Center. Established in 1979, the center organizes Russian holiday celebrations and film screenings for the Russian community. \n\n"}
{"id": "27452587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27452587", "title": "Shaikh of Bihar", "text": "Shaikh of Bihar\n\nThe Shaikh is a Muslim community commonly found in the state of Bihar in India. They are part of the larger Shaikh community of South Asia. A number of Bihari Shaikh families are also found in the city of Karachi in Sindh province of Pakistan. Common surnames used by the community include: Sayyid, Farooqi, Osmani, Ansari and Shaikh.\n\nThe word Shaikh in Arabic means a tribal elder or headman.\n\nThe Kulhaiya Shaikh are found mainly in Araria District and in Kadwa. They get their name from the custom of not marrying within their clan or kul in Hindi, or within their village. They speak Maithili and Urdu. Traditionally the title Shaikh signifies Arab descent and hence within the South Asian Muslim context, higher societal standing. Shaikh along with Syed, Maliks and Khan/Pathans are considered to be amongst the Ashraf communities within the Bihari Muslim.\n\nThe term Shaikh now covers a large number of communities of no definite origin, since the name has been used by any individuals of wide background. This is especially the case in Bihar, for example in the Purnea division, where the Shaikh form just under one-third of the population.\n\nSome Shaikh played a key role in the early Islamic history of Bihar, serving as courtiers and administrators for the Delhi Sultanate and later Mughal rulers. These Shaikhs were local Muslim converts converted by Sufi missionaries from Middle East and Central Asia although some of them were immigrants from modern Pakistan and north-western India. The oldest Shaikh families settled in Bihar Sharif, which was the centre of early Muslim rule in the region. Often these early settlers from the Central Asia were granted jagirs (estates), and were the earliest Muslim colonists in the region. These early colonists were often required to make converts, and these converts often adopted the clan name of those at whose hand they accepted Islam. This practice led to a large increase in those who call themselves Shaikhs, and these converts now form by far the largest Bihari Muslim community. The term Shaikh, particularly in Bihar and Bengal refers to any Muslim, and in the Muslim majority Purnia Division, covers four distinct groups. In East India, the term Shaikh is closer to its intended meaning in Arabic language i.e. an elder or old man. In fact, not only in Bihar but also in Bengal ( modern West Bengal and Bangladesh); Shaikhs comprise one of the three major social groups the other two being Khan and Kayasthas. The Muslim Kayasths are community of Muslims, descendents of members of the Kayastha caste of northern India, mainly in modern Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Bihar who embraced Islam during the rule of Muslim dynasties and assumed the title of Shaikh.\n\nThe greatest concentration of the Shaikh are in the Purnia division, especially in Kishanganj district, but they are found throughout Bihar. They also have a presence in Nalanda, Patna, Nawada, Gaya, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi and Saharsa.. The Shaikh speak Urdu, Urdu and various local dialects. They are Sunni Hanafi Muslims, and have customs similar to other Bihari Muslims. In the rural areas, the community are a largely endogamous, marrying close within close kin and other Muslims. They practice both parallel cousin and cross cousin marriages. While in the cities, there is now great deal of intermarriage with other Bihari Muslim communities. The abolishment of the zamindari system at Indian Independence saw the breakup of the larger jagirs. These changes have not affected the Shaikh who were medium and small scale farmers, who have actually benefited from the breakup of the estates.\n\nThe Shaikh form the largest single community in the Purnia division, particularly in the Kishanganj District, where they make just under half the population. These Shaikh are a medium to small scale farmers, and are entirely rural. They are in fact four distinct communities, the Bengali, Kulaiya, Surjapuri, Habalyar and Khutta, each of whom are endogamous.\n\nThe Bengali Shaikh make nearly half of the population of Kishanganj district, with large communities in Araria District. They speak a mixed dialect of Bengali and Urdu, which gets more progressively closer to standard Bengali as one get towards the West Bengal border. In West Bengal, they are found in Malda, Jalpaiguri and Dargeling districts. The community are converts from the Rajput, who have said to have converted during the period of Mughal rule. They gave considerably trouble to the British colonial authorities in the 19th century. Like other Shaikh groups they have intermarried with other Muslim groups. They are Sunni Hanafi Muslims, and their beliefs incorporate many local customs and traditions.\n\nThe Kulhaiya Shaikh are found mainly in Araria, Purnea and Kishanganj District of north eastern Bihar. Some members of the community are said to be the descendants of Caliph Abu Bakar Siddiq, a companion of Prophet Muhammad. They speak Urdu and Maithili. The community members are mostly converts from the upper castes: Brahmins, Rajputs, Kayasthas, Kshatriya, Jats, Rajbanshi and other castes, and said to have converted in the 16th century. They are mostly settled in Seemanchal region.\n\nThe Surjapuri Shaikhs can be found mainly in Kishanganj, Katihar and District of north eastern Bihar. The community members are converts from the upper castes: Brahmins, Rajputs, Kayasthas, Kshatriya, Jats, Rajbanshi and other castes they are said to have converted during the 15-16th century. Like other Shaikh groups they have intermarried with other Muslim groups. They are Sunni Hanafi Muslims, and their beliefs incorporate many local customs and traditions.surjapuris are mainly rajputs by descendent.specially suryavanshi rajputs as the name suggests.in this region sun was very sacred.one sun temple remains have been found in barijaan village of kishanganj district.\n\n"}
{"id": "48201962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48201962", "title": "Shane's Inspiration", "text": "Shane's Inspiration\n\nShane's Inspiration is a California-based nonprofit organization that works toward creating accessible playgrounds and supporting inclusive play, through projects in the United States and abroad.\n\nShane's Inspiration was founded in 1998, by television producer Scott A. Williams and his wife Catherine Curry-Williams, and their friend Tiffany Harris, in memory of Scott and Catherine's son Shane, who died in infancy from the effects of spinal muscular atrophy. They were inspired in part by the work of Amy Jaffe Barzach, founder of Boundless Playgrounds a few years earlier. The flagship Shane's Inspiration playground in Griffith Park opened in the autumn of 2000.\n\nSince the first playground was established, more than fifty community playgrounds have followed, large and small, with involvement from Shane's Inspiration which may include help with design, sourcing materials, grant writing, working with local governments, or other steps in the process. Among their completed projects are Aidan's Place in Westwood, Brandon's Village in Calabasas, Chanticleer Park in Live Oak, SEBA Park in Elgin, Illinois, Winwood's Enchanted Playground in Hutchinson, Kansas, Fernangeles Park in Sun Valley, California, and inclusive playgrounds in Cuenca, Ecuador and Bangalore, India.\n\nIn addition to the building of physical playgrounds, Shane's Inspiration has developed curricula and social programming to sustain inclusive play at the sites it develops. Shane's Inspiration has also collaborated with Too Small to Fail and equipment manufacturer Landscape Structures Inc., to create playground signage in English and Spanish that encourages conversations between parents and children.\n\nFundraising activities for Shane's Inspiration include the annual \"Walk and Roll\" event in Griffith Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "1804572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1804572", "title": "Sheikh Bedreddin", "text": "Sheikh Bedreddin\n\nSheikh Bedreddin (1359–1420) () was an influential mystic, scholar, theologian, and revolutionary. He is most well known for his role in a 1416 revolt against the Ottoman sultanate, in which he and his disciples posed a serious challenge to the authority of sultan Mehmed I and the Ottoman state. His full name was Sheikh Bedreddin Mahmud Bin Israel Bin Abdulaziz.\n\nMany details of Bedreddin's early life are disputed, as much of it is the subject of legend and folklore. He was born in 1359 in the town of Simavna (Kyprinos), near Edirne. His father was the \"ghazi\" of the town, and his mother was the daughter of a Greek Byzantine fortress commander. Notably, Bedreddin was of mixed Muslim and Christian parentage, with a Christian mother and a Muslim father; this contributed to his syncretic religious beliefs later in life. Turkish scholar Cemal Kafadar argues that Bedreddin's ghazi roots may also have contributed to his commitment to religious coexistence. In his youth he was a \"kadi\" to Ottoman warriors on the marches, which gave him ample experience in jurisprudence, a field of study in which he would become well-versed. Bedreddin was exposed to a variety of different cultures during his education, traveling far from his birthplace in Thrace. He studied theology in Konya, and then in Cairo, which was the capital of the Mamluk sultanate. After this, he traveled to Ardabil, in what is now Iranian Azerbaijan. Ardabil was under the control of the Timurids, and was home to the mystic Safavid order. Surrounded by mystics and far removed from the religious norms of the Ottoman Empire, Bedreddin was in an excellent place to cultivate his unconventional religious ideology. There he found an environment sympathetic to his pantheistic religious beliefs, and particularly the doctrine of “oneness of being”. This doctrine condemned oppositions such as those of religion and social class as interference in the oneness of God and the individual, and such doctrine ran contrary to increasing Ottoman efforts to establish Sunni Islam as the state religion. By adopting it, Bedreddin further established himself as a subversive.\n\nDuring the Ottoman interregnum after the defeat of sultan Bayezid I by Tamerlane in 1402, Bedreddin served as the kadiasker, or chief military judge, of the Ottoman prince Musa as Musa struggled with his brothers for control of the Ottoman sultanate. Along with the frontier bey Mihaloglu, he was a chief proponent of Musa's revolutionary regime. While kadiasker, Bedreddin gained the favor of many frontier ghazis by distributing \"timars\" among them. Through this he aided these unpaid ghazis in their struggle against centralization, a clear indication of his subversive side.\n\nAfter Musa’s defeat by Ottoman sultan Mehmed I in 1413, Bedreddin was exiled to Iznik, and his followers were dispossessed of their timars. However, he soon decided to capitalize on the climate of opposition to Mehmed I following the disorder of the still-fresh interregnum. Leaving his exile in Iznik in 1415, Bedreddin made his way to Sinop and from there across the Black Sea to Wallachia. In 1416, he raised the standard of revolt against the Ottoman state.\n\nMost of the revolts the ensued took place in regions of Izmir, Dobrudja, and Saruhan. The majority of his followers were Turcomans. The rest included frontier ghazis, dispossessed \"sipahis\", medrese students, and Christian peasants. The first of these rebellions was kindled in Karaburun, near Izmir. There, Borkluje Mustafa, one of Bedreddin’s foremost disciples, instigated an idealistic popular revolt by preaching the communal ownership of property and the equality of Muslims and Christians. Most those who revolted were Turkish nomads, but Borkluje’s followers also included many Christians. In total, approximately 6,000 people revolted against the Ottoman state in Karaburun. Torlak Kemal, another of Bedreddin’s followers, led another rebellion in Manisa, and Bedreddin himself was the leader of a revolt in Dobrudja, in contemporary northeastern Bulgaria. The heartland for the Dobrudja revolt was in the \"wild forest\" region south of the Danube Delta. Bedreddin found disciples among many who were discontent with sultan Mehmed; he became a figurehead for those who felt they had been disenfranchised by the sultan, including disgruntled marcher lords and many of those who had been given timars by Bedreddin as Musa's kadiasker, which had been revoked by Mehmed.\n\nThese uprisings posed a serious challenge to the authority of Mehmed I as he attempted to reunite the Ottoman Empire and govern his Balkan provinces. Although they were all eventually stifled, the series of coordinated revolts instigated by Bedreddin and his disciples was suppressed after only great difficulty. Torlak Kemal's rebellion in Manisa was crushed and he was executed, along with thousands of his followers. Borkluje's rebellion put up more of a fight than the others, defeating first the army of the governor of Saruhan and then that of the Ottoman governor Ali Bey, before finally it was finally crushed by the Vizier Bayezid Pasha. According to the Greek historian Doukas, Bayezid slaughtered unconditionally to ensure the rebellion's defeat, and Borkluje was executed along with two thousand of his followers. Sheikh Bedreddin's own Dobrudja rebellion was a short-lived one, and came to an end when Bedreddin was apprehended by Mehmed's forces and taken to Serres. Accused of disturbing the public order by preaching religious syncretism and the communal ownership of property, he was executed in the marketplace.\n\nSheikh Bedreddin was a prolific writer and religious scholar, and a distinguished member of the Islamic religious hierarchy. He is often regarded as a talented voice in religious sciences, particularly for his thoughts on Islamic law. For his works on jurisprudence he is classed among the great scholars of Islamic thought. On the other hand, many condemn him as a heretic for his radical ideas on religious syncretism. Bedreddin advocated overlooking religious difference, arguing against zealous proselytism in favor of a utopian synthesis of faiths. This latitudinarian interpretation of religion was a major part of what allowed him and his disciples to instigate a broad-reaching popular revolt in 1416, unifying a very heterogenous base of support.\n\nBedreddin's religious origins were as a mystic. His form of mysticism was greatly influenced by the work of Ibn al-‘Arabi, and he is known to have written a commentary of al-‘ Arabi's book \"Fusus al-hikam\" (The Quintessence of Wisdom). Through his writings, he developed his own form of mysticism. His most significant book, \"Varidat,\" or \"Divine Inspirations,\" was a compilation of his discourses which reflected on his ideas about mysticism and religion. Bedreddin was a monist, believing that reality is a manifestation of God's essence, and that the spiritual and physical worlds were inseparable and necessary to one another. As he writes in \"Varidat,\" he believed that “This world and the next, in their entirety, are imaginary fantasies; heaven and hell are no more than the spiritual manifestations, sweet and bitter, of good and evil actions.”\n\nBedreddin's pantheistic beliefs greatly influenced many of his political and social ideas, particularly the doctrine of “oneness of being.” This doctrine condemns oppositions which its adherents believe hinder the oneness of the individual with God, including oppositions between religions and between the privileged and the powerless. This belief system is reflected in the beliefs of Bedreddin and his disciples, who, among other things, preached that all religions are essentially the same, as well as that ownership of property should be communal. Such ideas appealed greatly to those who felt marginalized in Ottoman society, and this egalitarian ideology played a major role in inspiring popular revolt in 1416.\n\nSheikh Bedreddin clearly had ambitious political aspirations when he began his rebellion. According to the 15th-century Sunni historian Idris of Bitlis, Bedreddin considered himself the Mahdi, who would bring about God's unity in the world by distributing his lands among his followers. Although Idris’ account is partial, Bedreddin's ambitions as a political and religious leader are apparent. He even went so far as to claim that he was descended from the Seljuk royal house, undoubtedly to bolster his legitimacy as a potential ruler. It is plausible that he aspired to win the sultanate.\n\nThe revolt of 1416 marked a turning point in the toleration of non-Muslims by the Ottoman state. By crushing the rebellion aggressively and stigmatizing those who revolted, the state condemned popular discontent as illegitimate and further defined its position of opposition to religious nonconformists. After the revolt, Turco-Muslim presence in the Balkans became equivalent to an Ottoman presence. Bedreddin's rebellion made it clear to Ottoman statesmen that religious dissidence could pose a serious threat to their administrative structure, and in the years that followed, Murad II, Mehmed's successor, took steps to ensure that Islam was further established as the state's religion. For example, Murad expanded the Janissaries in the wake of the Bedreddin revolt to increase Ottoman military power, but also to create a steady flow of Christians being converted to Islam. This demonstrates a clear shift in Ottoman policy away from toleration of non-Muslims and closer to one of assimilation, a trend that would continue in the coming centuries.\n\nSects of Bedreddin's followers continued to survive long after his death. His teachings remained influential, and his sectarians were considered a threat until the late sixteenth century. Known as the Simavnis or the Bedreddinlus, a sect of his followers in Dobrudja and Deliorman continued to survive for hundreds of years after his execution. Unsurprisingly, the Ottoman government viewed this group with great suspicion. In the sixteenth century, they were regarded as identical to the Kizilbash, and persecuted along with them. Some of Bedreddin's doctrines also became common among some other mystic sects. One such sect was the Bektashi, a dervish order commonly associated the Janissaries.\n\nSheikh Bedreddin continues to be known in Turkey, especially among socialists, communists, and other political leftists. In the twentieth century, he was brought back into the spotlight by the communist Turkish writer Nazim Hikmet, who wrote \"The Epic of Sheikh Bedreddin\" to voice opposition to the rise of fascism in the 1930s. Hikmet's work popularized Bedreddin as a historical champion of socialism and an opponent of fascist tyranny, and his name has remained well known to those on the left of the political spectrum. His bones were exhumed in 1924, but his devotees were so fearful of a backlash against Bedreddin's newfound political significance by the Turkish government that he was not buried until 1961. He was finally put to rest near the mausoleum of Mahmud II, in Istanbul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38951939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38951939", "title": "Sheng nu", "text": "Sheng nu\n\nSheng nu (剩女; shèngnǚ; common translation: \"leftover women\" or \"leftover ladies\") is a derogatory term made popular by the All-China Women's Federation that classifies women who remain unmarried in their late twenties and beyond. The term is most prominently used in China, which was part of a controversial state sponsored directive and program, but has been used to colloquially refer to women in other parts of Asia, India, and North America. The term has gone on to become widely used in the mainstream media and has been the subject of several televisions series, magazine and newspaper articles, and book publications, focusing on the negative connotations and positive reclamation of the term. Xu Xiaomin of \"The China Daily\" described the sheng nus as \"a social force to be reckoned with\" and others have argued the term should be taken as a positive to mean \"successful women\". The slang term, 3S or 3S Women, meaning \"single, seventies (1970s), and stuck\" has also been used in place of sheng nu.\n\nThe equivalent term for men, \"guang gun\" (光棍) meaning bare branches, is used to refer to men who do not marry and thus do not add 'branches' to the family tree. Similarly, \"shengnan\" (剩男) or \"leftover men\" has also been used.\n\nThe one-child policy (Family Planning Program) and sex-selective abortions in China have caused a growing disproportion in the country's gender balance. Since 1979, when the one-child policy was introduced, approximately 20 million more men than women have been born, or 120 males to 100 females born, and by 2020, China is expected to have 24 million more men than women. The global average is 103 males to 107 females. \n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", the State Council of the People's Republic of China (Central People's Government) issued an \"edict\" in 2007 regarding the Population and Family Planning Program (one-child-policy) to address the urgent gender imbalance and cited it as a major \"threat to social stability\". The council further cited \"upgrading population quality (suzhi)\" as one of its primary goals and appointed the All-China Women's Federation, a state agency established in 1949 to \"protect women's rights and interests\", to oversee and resolve the issue.\n\nThe exact etymology of the term is not conclusively known, but most reliable sources cite it as having entered the mainstream in 2006. The \"China Daily\" reported in 2011 that Xu Wei, the editor-in-chief of the \"Cosmopolitan Magazine China\", coined the term. The term, sheng nu, literally translates to \"leftover ladies\" or \"leftover women\". In 2007, the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China released an official statement defining sheng nu as any \"unmarried women over the age of 27\" and added it to the national lexicon. The ministry expanded the meaning as a \"failure to find a husband\" due to \"overly high expectations for marriage partners\" in a subsequent statement. According to several sources, the government mandated the All-China Women's Federation to publish series of articles stigmatizing unwed women who were in their late twenties.\n\nIn March 2011, the All-China Women's Federation posted a controversial article titled 'Leftover Women Do Not Deserve Our Sympathy' shortly after International Women's Day. An excerpt states, \"Pretty girls do not need a lot of education to marry into a rich and powerful family. But girls with an average or ugly appearance will find it difficult\" and \"These girls hope to further their education in order to increase their competitiveness. The tragedy is, they don't realise that as women age, they are worth less and less. So by the time they get their MA or PhD, they are already old — like yellowed pearls.\" Originally at least 15 articles were available on its website relating to the subject of sheng nu, which have now been subsequently removed, that included matchmaking advice and tips.\n\nThe National Bureau of Statistics of the People's Republic of China (NBS) and state census figures reported approximately 1 in 5 women between the age of 25-29 remain unmarried. In contrast, the proportion of unwed men in that age range is much higher, sitting at around 1 in 3. In a 2010 Chinese National Marriage Survey, it was reported that 9 out of 10 men believe that women should be married before they are 27 years old. 7.4% of Chinese women between 30-34 were unmarried and the percentage falls to 4.6% between the ages 35–39. In comparison with other neighbouring countries with similar traditional values, these figures put China as having some of the highest female marriage rates in the world. Despite being categorized as a \"relatively rare\" demographic, the social culture and traditions of China have put the issue in the social spotlight.\n\nA study of married couples in China noted that men tended to marry down the socio-economic ladder. \"There is an opinion that A-quality guys will find B-quality women, B-quality guys will find C-quality women, and C-quality men will find D-quality women,\" says Huang Yuanyuan. \"The people left are A-quality women and D-quality men. So if you are a leftover woman, you are A-quality.\" A University of North Carolina demographer who studies China's gender imbalance, Yong Cai, further notes that \"men at the bottom of society get left out of the marriage market, and that same pattern is coming to emerge for women at the top of society\".\n\nChina, and many other Asian countries, share a long history of conservative and patriarchal view of marriage and the family structure including marrying at a young age and hypergamy. The pressure from society and family has been the source criticism, shame, social embarrassment and social anxiety for many women who are unmarried. Chen, another women interviewed by the BBC, said the sheng nu are \"afraid their friends and neighbours will regard me as abnormal. And my parents would also feel they were totally losing face, when their friends all have grandkids already\". Similar sentiment has been shared amongst other women in China, particularly amongst recent university graduates. A report by CNN cited a survey of 900 female university graduates across 17 Chinese universities where approximately 70 percent of those surveyed said \"their greatest fear is becoming a 3S lady\".\n\nThe increasing popularity of unwed women in China has been largely accredited to the growing educated middle class. Women are more free and able to live independently in comparison to previous generations. \"Forbes\" reported that in 2013, \"11 of the 20 richest self-made women in the world are Chinese\". In addition, it cites that Chinese female CEOs make up 19 percent of women in management jobs making it the second highest worldwide after Thailand. Another noted outcome has been the reluctance amongst male partners to date women who are professionally more successful than they or unwilling to give up work or both. A rapidly growing trend in premarital sex has been commonly surveyed and noted amongst women in China. In 1989, 15% of Chinese women engaged in premarital sex against 2013 where between 60-70% had done so. Chinese Academy of Social Sciences professor Li states that this shows an increase in the types of relationships amongst new generations in China.\n\nA movement in China to have the word banned from most government websites, including the All-China Women's Federation website, was marginally successful. The wording was changed to \"old unmarried women\", but sheng nu remains a widespread and mainstream idea. The term has also been embraced by some feminists with the opening of 'sheng nu' social clubs. In an interview with fashion editor Sandra Bao by the \"Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting\", Bao stated that \"many modern, single women in China enjoy their independence and feel comfortable holding out for the right man, even as they grow older.\" She further explained, \"We don't want to make compromises because of age or social pressure\".\n\nBetween 2008 and 2012, sociologist Sandy To, while at the University of Cambridge, conducted a 'grounded theory method' study in China regarding the topic. To's research focused on \"marriage partner choice\" by Chinese professional women in the form of a typology of four different \"partner choice strategies\". The main finding of the study found that contrary to the popular belief that highly educated and single women remain unmarried, or do not want to take on traditional roles in marriage, because of personal preference, that in contrast, they commonly have an appetite for marriage and that their main obstacle is traditional patriarchal attitudes. The study also pointed out that in other Asian countries such as Japan, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan, where women have been receiving a higher education, that correspondingly, the average age of marriage amongst them is much higher. The Chinese \"People's Daily\" cited a 2012 United Nations survey that found 74 percent of women in the United Kingdom and 70 percent of women in Japan were single between the ages of 25 and 29. \"The China Daily\" published an article that cited figures from the 2012 United Nations' World Marriage Data which reported 38% of women in the United States, and more than 50% of women in Britain remained unmarried in their 30s.\n\nThe Chinese media has capitalized on the subject matter with television shows, viral videos, newspapers and magazine articles, and pundits that have sharply criticized women for \"waiting it out for a man with a bigger house or fancier car\". The television series comedy \"Will You Marry Me and My Family\", which premièred on CCTV-8, that revolves around the principal concept of sheng nu as a family frantically searches for a prospective spouse of the main character who is in her 30s. This series and \"You Are the One\" (MediaCorp Channel 8) have been accredited with minting terms like \"the shengnu economy\" and further bringing the subject into public fascination and obsession. \"If You Are the One\" (Jiangsu Satellite Television) is a popular Chinese game show, loosely based on \"Taken Out\", whose rise has been credited with the \"national obsession\" surrounding sheng nu. The show between 2010-2013 was China's most viewed game show.\n\nIn response to a popular music video called \"No Car, No House\" about blue-collar Chinese bachelors, another music video called \"No House, No Car\" was made by a group of women and uploaded on International Women's Day. The video was viewed over 1.5 million times over the first two days on the Chinese video site Youku. Other commercial interests have taken advantage of the situation such as the increased popularity of \"boyfriends for hire\". The concept has also been turned into a popular television drama series called \"Renting a Girlfriend for Home Reunion\".\n\nThe topic has also been the subject of literary works. Hong Kong author Amy Cheung's bestselling novel \"Hummingbirds Fly Backwards\" (三个A Cup的女人) depicts the anxieties of three unmarried women on the verge of turning 30.\n\nExperts have further theorized about the term's longevity as the National Population and Family Planning Commission has been moving towards phasing out the one-child policy in favour of an \"appropriate and scientific family planning policy (one-child policy)\" where the child limit may be increased. He Feng in \"The China Daily\" points out, \"the sheng nu phenomenon is nothing like the feminist movement in the West, in which women consciously demanded equal rights in jobs and strived for independence.\" Rather, the change has been \"subtle\" and that \"perhaps decades later, will be viewed as symbolic of China's social progress and a turning point for the role of women in its society.\"\n\nIn an article by the \"South China Morning Post\", it concludes, \"with mounting pressure and dwindling hopes of fulfilling both career and personal ambitions at home, for women such as Xu the urge to pack up and leave only grows stronger with time. Without women such as her, though, the mainland will be left with not only a weaker economy, but an even greater pool of frustrated leftover men.\"\n\nDivorce rates in Shanghai and Beijing, China's two most populated economic centres, have been steadily rising since 2005 with it reaching 30% in 2012. In 2016, divorce rates rose by 8.3% from 2015 to 4.2 million. At the same time, in 2017, marriage rates have declined since 2013 to 8.3%, down from a peak of 9.9% in 2013. These among other contributing factors such as online dating and the upward mobility of people have been attributed to pushing the average age of marriage in China to 27, up from 20 in 1950, making it closer to global marriage trends.\n\nThe Sheng Nu Movement uses the internet and media as an outlet to remove the stigma against leftover women. SK-II, a Japanese skincare brand, launched in the early 1980's, has launched a global campaign called #changedestiny,  to empower women affected by the prejudice against “leftover women”. In their campaign video, \"Marriage Market Takeover\", stories of women who overcame the challenges of being unmarried after they turn 27. The video includes interviews from leftover women. In the interview, Wang Xiao Qi describes how her parents pushed her into marriage by arguing that “marriage doesn’t wait.” She refutes them by saying, “even if I don’t have a significant other half, I can still live wonderfully.” The commercial was launched with the idea of taking over the “Marriage Market”, a place where Chinese parents essentially advertise children as marriage potential, listing their height, weight, salary, values and personality. \n\nPowerful figures of modern day China have publicly expressed their irritation towards the growing feminist movement in their male-dominated society. Feng Gang, a leading sociologist, posted on social media “History has proved that academia is not the domain of women.” Xu Youzhe the CEO of one of China’s most popular gaming companies, Duoyi Network, mentioned. Duoyi Network, also states “If a woman in her lifetime has fewer than two children, no matter how hard she works, she is destined to be unhappy.” These comments are some of the many examples of the outward condemnation towards the growing feminist movement in China.\n\nChina’s government have also been known to combat the growing feminist movement in China. On International Women’s Day in 2015, feminists in China were detained for publicly raising awareness about sexual harassment on public transportation.  Five Women in Beijing were also arrested and sent to a detention center by the Public Security Bureau for handing out the feminist sticker. In 2017, Women’s Voices, a social media account run by China’s most prominent feminists, was suspended with no specific explanation as to why.\n\nTsai Ing-Wen is a 59-year-old leftover woman and also the first female president of The Republic of China. Tsai Ing-Wen is criticized for being an unmarried president. The Chinese State newspaper Xinhua shamed Tsai Ing-Wen by commenting, “As a single female politician, she lacks the emotional drag of love, the pull of the ‘home,’ and no children to care for,”\n\nChinese women have taken initiative to form social clubs where they support one another over the pressures of marriage and motherhood. An article written by The Atlantic state that these social groups have over 1,000 members. Sandra Bao is a co-founder and a fashion magazine editor who formed a social group known as “Leftover Attitude” in Shanghai as a way to support unmarried professional women. She states, “Parents are pressuring us, the media label us, there’s a whole industry of matchmakers and others out there telling us it’s a problem to be single.”\n\nSexism is prominent in China’s job field where women are either expected to meet China’s many societal standards or aren’t given any opportunities at all on the basis of their gender. In male-dominated areas such as technology and construction, one of the requirements needed to get the job may actually require the applicant to be a male. According to the \"South China Morning Post,\" Gender discrimination is deeply ingrained in Chinese society, which, for centuries, was dominated by Confucianism which places women as inferior to men. Gender discrimination also occurs in employment where women have to fit certain physical features to be hired. Sexism exists in the Chinese employment system. Brian Stauffer from Human Rights Watch describes “Sexual objectification of women—treating women as a mere object of sexual desire—is prevalent in Chinese job advertising. Some job postings require women to have certain physical attributes—with respect to height, weight, voice, or facial appearance—that are completely irrelevant to the execution of job duties.” Legal actions have been taken against sexism in China’s job field. In 2014, a woman named Cao Ju was refused a job in the private tutoring firm Juren in Beijing based on the fact that she was a woman. The company settled for 30,000 yuan for what’s known to be “China's first gender discrimination lawsuit.” Cao justified her actions by stating that “[I] think as long as the person is capable of doing the work the post requires, gender is irrelevant.”\n\nComparisons have been made to a 1986 \"Newsweek\" cover and featured article that said \"women who weren't married by 40 had a better chance of being killed by a terrorist than of finding a husband\". \"Newsweek\" eventually apologized for the story and in 2010 launched a study that discovered 2 in 3 women who were 40 and single in 1986 had married since. The story caused a \"wave of anxiety\" and some \"skepticism\" amongst professional and highly educated women in the United States. The article was cited several times in the 1993 Hollywood film \"Sleepless in Seattle\" starring Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan. The Chinese \"People's Daily\" noted a United Nations study, mentioned earlier, that in the United States in 2012, nearly half of all women between 25 and 29 were single.\n\nThe term bachelorette is used to describe any unmarried woman who is still single. The popular American reality television series \"The Bachelorette\" capitalizes on matchmaking often successful businesswomen in their mid to late twenties with other eligible bachelors.\n\nFormer Los Angeles deputy mayor Joy Chen, a Chinese-American, wrote a book titled \"Do Not Marry Before Age 30\" (2012). Chen's book, a pop culture bestseller, was commissioned and published by the Chinese government as a self-help book for unmarried women. In an earlier interview with \"The China Daily\", she was quoted with saying, \"We should not just try to find a 'Mr Right Now', but a 'Mr Right Forever. The same year, Chen was named \"Woman of the Year\" by the All-China Women's Federation.\n\nSingapore is noted to have gone through a similar period. In 1983, then Prime Minister of Singapore Lee Kuan Yew sparked the 'Great Marriage Debate' when he encouraged Singapore men to choose highly educated women as wives. He was concerned that a large number of graduate women were unmarried. Some sections of the population, including graduate women, were upset by his views. Nevertheless, a match-making agency Social Development Unit (SDU) was set up to promote socialising among men and women graduates. In the Graduate Mothers Scheme, Lee also introduced incentives such as tax rebates, schooling, and housing priorities for graduate mothers who had three or four children, in a reversal of the over-successful 'Stop-at-Two' family planning campaign in the 1960s and 1970s. By the late 1990s, the birth rate had fallen so low that Lee's successor Goh Chok Tong extended these incentives to all married women, and gave even more incentives, such as the 'baby bonus' scheme. Lee reaffirmed his controversial position in his personal memoir, \"From Third World to First\", \"many well-educated Singaporean women did not marry and have children.\"\n\nThe 2012 UN study cited by the Chinese \"People's Daily\" reported that in Britain 74 percent and in Japan 70 percent of all women between 25 and 29 were single. A similar feature in the \"People's Daily\" focused on the reception of the concept of sheng nu from netizens outside of China, particularly in Asia, specifically Korea, Japan, and India. One Japanese netizen noted that during the 1980s, the term \"Christmas cakes\" was commonly used to refer to women who were unmarried and beyond the national age average of married women. The actual reference to Christmas cakes is the saying, \"who wants Christmas cakes after December 25\". Another contributor wrote, similarly \"a class of highly educated, independent age 27+ women who choose to live a more liberated life and put their talent/skill to good use in society\" is happening in India. \"People must make their own choices and must simply refuse others' labels and be blissfully happy\", she further explained. Alternatively, for men in Japan, the term Herbivore men is used to describe men who have no interest in getting married or finding a girlfriend.\n\n\"The China Daily\" posted the question, \"Are 'leftover women' a unique Chinese phenomenon?\" on their opinions column. Readers cited their own experiences universally stating they too felt societal and family pressures in their 30s and 40s for marriage. Yong Cai who studies China's gender imbalance at the University of North Carolina stated, \"The 'sheng nu' phenomenon is similar to trends we've already seen around the world, in countries ranging from the United States to Japan as higher education and increased employment give women more autonomy\". Cai cites studies that show that women are now breaking the tradition of \"mandatory marriage\" to have fewer children or marry later on in life.\n\nOther typologically similar terms that are still used in the modern lexicon of other countries and cultures show the concept has existed in some cases as far back as the 16th century. The term spinster was used to describe unmarried or single women of a marriageable age. It wasn't until 2004 when the Civil Partnership Act replaced the word spinster with \"single\" in the relationship history section of marriage certificates in the UK. Subsequently, at the height of the Industrial Revolution, the term surplus women was used to describe the excess of unmarried women in Britain.\n\nCatherinette was a traditional French label for women 25 years old or older who were still unmarried by the Feast of Saint Catherine of Alexandria on 25 November. The French idiom, \"to do St. Catherine's hair\", meaning \"to remain an old maid\" is also associated with this tradition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30850750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30850750", "title": "Sri Lankans in Switzerland", "text": "Sri Lankans in Switzerland\n\nSri Lankans in Switzerland refer to Sri Lankans living in Switzerland. There are about 46,000 to 55,000 Swiss of Sri Lankan origin and Sri Lankan expatriates living in Switzerland.\nMost of them are ethnic Tamils.\n\nSince the 1990s Switzerland has had a relatively large Tamil population among Europe, almost all of them being refugees from Sri Lanka. Many had already been in the country for more than fifteen years due to the Sri Lankan Civil War.\n\nAs well a providing refuge for some Sri Lankans, members of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE or Tamil Tigers) have been based in Switzerland. The LTTE in Switzerland have been known as the Swiss Tigers. The Sri Lankan Tamil community in Switzerland has become victim to these LTTE sympathisers who have created a network of money power, man power and muscle power towards the tiger cause back in Sri Lanka. Because of this Switzerland has been regarded as the “புலிகள் கோட்டை” (tiger fort) in Europe. Its contribution to the LTTE to the war effort has proportionately exceeded that of Tamils living in other Western countries. \n\nWith the end of the Sri Lankan Civil War, LTTE networks around the world were being shut down by both Sri Lankan and foreign governments. In 2011 the Swiss police arrested ten former LTTE representatives in the country for threatening, blackmailing and extortion of Tamils of the Sri Lankan diaspora to support the LTTE and the war effort financially. The funds were mainly used to buy weapons in Sri Lanka. Those arrested included the head of the LTTE in Switzerland Vijaratnam Sivanesan alias 'Ragu alias Ragupathy', his predecessor Chelliah Kularajasekeram alias 'Kulam' and the Swiss Tiger finance chief Chelliah Jeyapalan alias 'Abdullah'. They are facing charges of money laundering and belonging to a criminal organisation.\n\nSwitzerland is home to around 32,000 to 42,000 Sri Lanka Tamils.\n\n\nThe Sri Sivasubramaniar Temple is a Hindu temple located in Adliswil in the Sihl Valley in the canton of Zürich and was established in 1994 as a non-profit foundation, as well as the Sri Vishnu Thurkkai Amman Temple, located in the municipality of Dürnten in the canton of Zürich in 2010. The Tamil community established some more temples in Switzerland, among them the temple of the Saivanerikoodam association in the Haus der Religionen in Bern in December 2014. Thus being a minority of the Tamil people living in Switzerland, Zentrum für Migrationskirchen (literally: Centre for migration churches) in Zürich-Wipkingen houses among others the \"Oikos\" church that has its origins in Sri Lanka and was founded in 2004. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2871881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2871881", "title": "Street harassment", "text": "Street harassment\n\nStreet harassment is a form of sexual harassment that consists of unwanted comments, gestures, honking,\nwolf-whistlings, catcalling, exposure, following, persistent sexual advances, and touching by strangers in public areas such as streets, shopping malls, and public transportation. According to the founder of the non-profit organization \"Stop Street Harassment\", it can also consist of physically harmless behavior, such as \"kissing noises\" and \"non-sexually explicit comments,\" to \"more threatening behavior\" like stalking, flashing, sexual assault, and rape.\n\nRecipients include people of all genders, but women are much more commonly victims of harassment by men. According to \"Harvard Law Review\" (1993), street harassment is considered harassment done primarily by male strangers to females in public places. In 2014, researchers from Cornell University and Hollaback! conducted the largest international cross-cultural study on street harassment. The data suggests that the majority of females have their first street harassment experience during puberty.\n\nIn much of South Asia, public sexual harassment of women is called \"eve teasing\". The Spanish term \"piropos\" most widely used in Mexico holds a similar effect. Studies show that what is considered street harassment is similar around the globe. Many perpetrators of these actions would not characterize them as harassment, though most recipients would. Harassment can also be disproportionately directed at those with what is perceived by passers-by as a non-typical gender identity or sexual orientation.\n\nTaking photos of strangers without permission, as street photography and photojournalism practitioners do, is not considered street harassment.\n\nThere is no definitive beginning of street harassment, but discussion regarding the subject began in 1944 with the rape of Recy Taylor. Rosa Parks was commissioned to investigate the crime in which Taylor, a black woman, was kidnapped and gang raped in Abbeville, Alabama. Parks responded by starting what was later dubbed the \"strongest campaign for equal justice to be seen in a decade.\"\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, a movement called Take Back the Night gained traction. This movement, still strongly represented today, is an international protest against sexual violence against women. Take Back the Night has become a non-profit organization that aims to end all forms of sexual violence, including street harassment.\n\nIn 1970, the \"Wall Street Ogle-In\" took place. Led by Karla Jay, women marched on Wall Street with signs addressing street harassment. As a role reversal, the women catcalled the men they passed in hopes of raising awareness of the unpleasant nature of the street harassment women experience daily.\n\nIn 1994, Deirdre Davis wrote an academic article that helped clarify what street harassment is by explaining its five characteristics: 1) it takes place in a public space, 2) it most commonly occurs between men and women, 3) saying \"thank you\" to a harasser provokes further harassment, 4) comments often pertain to what cannot be seen on the woman's body, and 5) the harasser's comments, though disguised as compliments, are objectifying and derogatory.\n\nIn 2012, the blog \"Stop Street Harassment\" became a non-profit that is \"dedicated to documenting and ending gender-based street harassment worldwide\" by hosting events and keeping people informed about action they can take to end street harassment.\n\nThere is a high prevalence for street harassment to become sexual violence. Worldwide, statistics show that 80% of women endure at least frequent street harassment, 45% feel that they cannot go alone to public spaces, 50% have to cross the street to find alternate routes to their destinations, 26% claim that they are in a relationship in order to avoid harassment, 80% feel the need to be constantly alert when traversing local streets and 19% have had to switch careers to escape the area in which harassment occurred. This problem is not only transnational, but also transcultural and affects people of all identities, races, and ages—everyday.\n\nThe Canadian government sponsored a large survey in 1993 called the Violence Against Women Survey. In the sample of over 12,000 women, 85% said they were victims of harassment by a stranger. In a 2002 survey of Beijing residents, 58% cited public buses as a common location for sexual harassment.\n\nA study done in Australia shows that almost 90% of women have experienced verbal or physical harassment in public one or more times in their lives. In Afghanistan, research done in the same year indicates that the prevalence of harassment was 93%. Canadian and Egyptian studies show that the rate of incidence is approximately 85% of women experiencing street harassment in the past year. In U.S.-based research, it was reported that women experienced stranger harassment on a monthly basis (41%), while a large minority reported experiencing harassment once every few days (31%). These statistics are given to show a sense of the phenomenon as widely construed, not taken as representative of the same phenomenon comparable across contexts.\n\nA representative survey of 2,000 Americans was commissioned in 2014 by activist group Stop Street Harassment and conducted by GfK. 65% of women and 25% of men reported having been the victims of street harassment in their lives. 41% of women and 16% of men said they had been physically harassed in some way, such as by being followed, flashed, or groped. The perpetrators are lone men in 70% of cases for female victims and 48% of cases for male victims; 20% of men who were harassed were the victims of a lone woman. For men, the most common harassment was homophobic or transphobic slurs, followed by unwanted following, then catcalling and comments on body parts. For women, the most common harassment was catcalling, followed by comments on body parts, unwanted touching or brushing up against, and then sexual slurs like \"bitch\" or \"slut\".\n\nFor women, most harassment is performed by a total stranger. This comes from a 1990s study from the American Midwest. It was found that numerous women have experienced street harassment on numerous occasions. Another 50% were physically harassed or followed by such strangers. Half of those surveyed revealed this harassment occurred by their 17th birthday.\n\nA 2008 survey found that 83% of Egyptian women said they had experienced sexual harassment, as did 98% of women from overseas while in Egypt. A 2013 study in Egypt by UN Women found that 99.3% of female respondents said they had been sexually harassed.\n\nFive hundred cases of mass sexual assault in Egypt were documented between June 2012 and June 2014.\n\n66% of LGBT respondents in a 2012 European Union survey said that they avoid holding hands in public for fear of harassment and assault. 50% said they avoid certain places or locations, and the places they listed as most unsafe to be open about their sexual orientations were \"public transport\" and \"street, square, car parking lot, or other public space.\"\n\nAccording to the Stop Street Harassment national survey, LGBT men are 17% more likely to experience physically aggressive harassment and 20% more likely to encounter verbal harassment than heterosexual men. In a separate survey, verbal harassment was cited as the most common form of abuse. However, there were also a significant number of people who were harassed by being denied service or being physically harassed.\n\nA sample survey of 331 LGBTQ men in 2014 indicated the phenomena occurs worldwide. 90% of them claimed to be harassed in public spaces for their perceived differences. It was mainly their lack of traditionally masculine features that singled them out for abuse. This abuse was mainly aimed at how they did not fit typical gender roles while in public.\n\nA study in 2011 was aimed at recording the health effects of street harassment on women and girls. It was found that they were mentally stressed after experiencing street harassment. Poor mental health has been found to be linked to street harassment in addition to paranoia that certain spaces are not safe. The main way the women and girls put a stop to this was reducing the amount of time they spent on the street. However, this negatively impacted their ability to hold down a job or go to where they could receive healthcare.\n\nA 2000 article, based on Canada's Violence Against Women Survey, showed that past exposure to harassment from strangers is an important factor in women's perceptions of their safety in public. Harassment from a stranger, as opposed to an acquaintance, is more likely to induce fear of sexual victimization.\n\nA study published in 2010 reported that \"the experience of street harassment is directly related to a greater preoccupation with physical appearance and body shame, and is indirectly related to heightened fears of rape. ... Stranger harassment reduces feelings of safety while walking alone at night, using public transportation, walking alone in a parking garage, and while home alone at night.\"\n\nIn some cases, men may enjoy the thrill of doing something illegal or taboo, and some may experience sexual gratification from groping, flirting, or sexual humiliation. Negative remarks can also be the result of transphobia or homophobia.\n\nAustralian reporter Eleanor Gordon-Smith recorded interactions in the 2010s in Kings Cross, New South Wales, and found that men who catcalled women enjoyed getting attention, flirting, and the public performance. The men were also under the impression that the women who were the subject of their remarks and gestures enjoyed the attention and believed they were helping the women have a good time or were giving a compliment about physical appearance that would be appreciated. The vast majority of women in the area, in contrast, found such conduct degrading, wished they could avoid it, and worried that it could escalate into a physical assault. Gordon-Smith pointed out that pretending to enjoy the attention was one way to avoid provoking an escalation which could lead to a physical attack.\n\nYouGov conducted a poll of about 1,000 Americans in August 2014. In their findings, 72% said it was never appropriate to make a \"catcall\", 18% said it was sometimes appropriate to catcall, and 2% said it was always acceptable. The majority (55%) labelled catcalling \"harassment\", while 20% called it \"complimentary\". Americans in the 18–29 age range were the most likely to categorize catcalling as complimentary.\n\nThe vast majority of women in the Kings Cross area study found such conduct degrading, wished they could avoid it, and worried that it could escalate into a physical assault. In a more representative sample, a 2014 U.S. survey found that 68% of harassed women and 49% of harassed men were \"very or somewhat concerned\" the situation would escalate. Gordon-Smith pointed out that pretending to enjoy the attention was one way to avoid provoking an escalation which could lead to a physical attack. The U.S. survey found 31% of women responded by going out with other people instead of alone, and 4% of all victims made a major life change to avoid harassment, like moving or quitting a job.\n\nThe mainstream media, including any printed, televised, social media or other online information sources, commonly represent sexual and street harassment using overly simplified narratives and delegitimizing language. There exists a tendency in media portrayals of the issue that harassment occurs as a reflection of individual aberration, usually highlighting aspects of misconduct by one party against another. While humanities and feminist scholarship identify any degree of sexual harassment as a manifestation of gendered oppression and discrimination in society, seldom do mainstream media sources report that harassment derives from systemic gender inequality or introduce dialogue in the context of broader issues.\n\nAnother way that mainstream media shapes the public opinion of harassment is by incorporating conservative messages to their audiences, specifically through the use of invalidating rhetoric. As with other forms of oppression against women, the language presented by media sources commonly undermines the validity of street harassment complaints. The particular overuse of the words, \"alleged,\" \"supposed,\" \"expected,\" immediately create a sense of uncertainty toward claims of harassment and assault, therefore imposing a sense of responsibility and/or guilt on to the victim.\n\nWhile the internet, social media specifically, allows a new platform for activism against street harassment, it has become a source of frequent verbal harassment against users. Harassment that victims may face in real life on the streets translates to the online public forum of Twitter. In a case study following a hashtag originating in November 2011, #mencallmethings, primarily female Twitter users posted and discussed examples of the harassment they received online from men. However, over the course of this trending hashtag, tweets that were meant to educate, share stories, and create a sense of togetherness between victims often received backlash from the male Twitter user population, demonstrating that on an unmonitored media source women's voices on harassment are again silenced.\n\nWhile internet \"trolling\" (defined as aggressive online behavior) is prevalent across several internet circles, the manifestation of gendered society which normalizes street harassment, result in a specific type of Internet aggression that feminist scholars label as \"gendertrolling.\" Gendertrolling is thought to be a more threatening form of social media presence, one that aligns with the responses to the #mencallmethings posts. What allows gendertrolling to become destructive to its victims are the prescriptive signs of gender-based insults, hate speech, credible threats, unusual intensity, scope, longevity of attacks, and reaction to women speaking out, all which are similar features of street harassment.\n\nPublic activism against street harassment has grown since the late 2000s. A group called Stop Street Harassment began as a blog in 2008 and became incorporated as a non-profit organization in 2012. The organization provides tips for dealing with street harassment in safe and assertive ways, as well as provide opportunities to \"take community action\". In 2010, Stop Street Harassment started the annual \"International Anti-Street Harassment Week\". During the third week in April, people from around the globe participated in \"marches, rallies, workshops, and sidewalk chalkings\" in an effort to gain attention for the issue. Another group called Hollaback! was founded in 2010.\n\nActivists have made use of viral videos to publicize the frequency of unsolicited comments that women receive in public areas.\n\nOne American street artist used Kickstarter to raise money for a campaign called \"Stop Telling Women to Smile.\" The artist posts portraits of herself and other young women accompanied with messages against street harassment.\n\nA Minneapolis woman created a set of printable \"Cards Against Harassment\" (in homage to the game \"Cards Against Humanity\") that she distributes to street harassers. The cards are meant to explain to street harassers why their comments are unwanted.\n\nThe Safe Cities Global Initiative created by UN-Habitat in 1996 is an approach to address harassment in public places through partnerships with cities’ communities, local organizations, and municipal governments. Actions taken to address this include improved street designs and lighting in urban areas. The United Nations Commission of the Status of Women (CSW), a subcategory under UN Women, is committed to empowering women and advocating for gender equality. For the first time, it included multiple clauses into their \"Agreed Conclusions\" that focused on sexual harassment in public places in March 2013.\n\nA 2016 study in \"The\" \"British Journal of Criminology\" examines the extent to which online sites serve as a form of informal justice for street harassment victims. The results show that individuals experience “validation” or “affirmation” after self-disclosing their experiences online and may receive acknowledgement or support by doing so. Notably, some individuals feel re-victimized or experience re-traumatization. It was found that online justice is limited, but in particular for street harassment, it is possible that victims achieve some form of justice.\n\nIn some jurisdiction there are laws that make some forms of street harassment illegal. Peru has had anti-street harassment laws since March 2015.\n\nQuezon City in the Philippines, which has a high rate of street harassment, implemented an ordinance against street harassment, such as cat-calling and wolf-whistling, on May 16, 2016. Penalties for acts of street harassment include fines of Php 1,000 to Php 5,000 and a 1-month jail term.\n\nAcross the United States, laws regarding street harassment are under the jurisdiction of individual states. In Illinois there are laws that relate to street harassment.\n\nDespite being a potential precursor to physical assault and even murder, offensive speech and hate speech are protected under the First Amendment. Although a perpetrator is legally allowed to shout obscenities, other acts such as public indecency and sexual assault are blatant violations of the law. Offensive speech and hate speech as forms of street harassment are frequently used as evidence against repeat offenders.\n\nThe public's rejection of criminalizing offensive speech and hate speech in view of the First Amendment poses a challenge for the legal system. Contrary to popular belief, it is not just those who are unaffected by street harassment that hold this ideal; victims and survivors of offensive speech and hate speech are reluctant to advocate against this First Amendment right. Adversely, the public is hesitant to rely on the law in their daily lives as they prefer autonomy, regardless of how grave the situation may be.\n\nNot only is there a sense of powerlessness when being victimized during street harassment, but also during the legal process. More often than not, plaintiffs are unprepared for litigation and the courtroom as they are inexperienced, to no fault of their own. Quite frequently, plaintiffs are victims of legal aggression via their street harassment perpetrator. Perpetrators will file a frivolous lawsuit in response to their victim's charges. In addition to this, it is difficult to acquire government aid, as seen in the 1994 case when the EEOC received 11,000 harassment complaints and prosecuted fifty.\n\nIn a series of interviews conducted by Laura Beth Nielson in 2000, regarding the attitudes of the public in relation to the law and street harassment, four paradigms were offered. The freedom of speech paradigm is based on the ideal of allegiance to the First Amendment's supposed ideology. The autonomy paradigm is based on the desire for self-governance. The impracticality paradigm is based on the impossibility of regulation in regards to offensive speech and hate speech. Lastly, the distrust of authority paradigm is based on the lack of faith in legal officials to enforce laws. These four paradigms exemplify the reasoning behind the lack of criminalization for street harassment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40315998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40315998", "title": "Teenage pregnancy in the United States", "text": "Teenage pregnancy in the United States\n\nTeenage pregnancy in the United States relates to girls under the age of 20 who become pregnant. 89% of these births take place out-of-wedlock. In the 2010s, teen pregnancy has declined almost continuously.\n\nAccording to the Centers for Disease Control, more than 4 out of 5, or 80%, of teenage pregnancies are unintended. In 2010, of the majority of pregnancies to adolescent females in the United States, an estimated 60% ended in live birth, 15% ended in miscarriage, and 30% in abortion. In 2012, there were 104,700 maternal hospital stays for pregnant teens; the number of hospital stays for teen pregnancies decreased by 47 percent from 2000-2012.\n\nIn 2014, 249,078 babies were born to women aged 15 – 19 years old. This is a birth rate of 24.2 per 1000 women. However, most adolescents who give birth are over the age of 18. In 2014, 73% of teen births occurred in 18-19 year olds. Pregnancies are much less common among girls younger than 15. In 2008, 6.6 pregnancies occurred per 1,000 teens aged 13–14. In other words, fewer than 1% of teens younger than 15 became pregnant in 2008. Pregnant teenagers tend to gain less weight than older mothers, due to the fact that they are still growing and fighting for nutrients with the baby during the pregnancy.\n\nTeen pregnancy is defined as pregnancies in women under the age of 20, regardless of marital status. Teen pregnancy rates have dropped 9% since 2013. Between 1991 and 2014, teenage birth rates dropped 61% nationwide.\n\nTeenage birth rates, as opposed to pregnancies, peaked in 1991, when there were 61.8 births per 1,000 teens, and the rate dropped in 17 of the 19 years that followed. 3 in 10 American girls will get pregnant before age 20. That are almost 750,000 pregnancies a year. Nearly 89% of teenage births occur outside of marriage. Of all women, 16% will be teen mothers. The largest increases in unintended pregnancies were found among women who were cohabiting, had lower education, and low income.\n\nBlack, Latina, and American Indian youth experience the highest rates of teenage pregnancy and childbirth. Studies show that Asians (23 per 1,000) and whites (43 per 1,000) have lower rates of pregnancy before the age of 20. The pregnancy rate among black teens decreased 48% between 1990 and 2008, more than the overall U.S. teen pregnancy rate declined during the same period (42%). The teen birth rate decline broken down by race in 2014 from 2013:\n\nTeen birth rates in the United States are higher than that of many other developed countries.\n\nIn 2013, the lowest birth rates were reported in the Northeast, while the highest rates were located in the south east. For example, a 2001 study by UNICEF found that the US teenage birth rate was the highest among 28 OECD nations in the review; in a 1999 comparison by the Guttmacher Institute, U.S. teen pregnancy and teen birth rates were the second-highest among the 46 developed countries studied. In 2002, the U.S. was rated 84th out of 170 World Health Organization member countries based on teenage fertility rate.\n\nSexually active teens in the US are less likely to use any contraceptive method, including condoms, and are especially less likely to use highly effective hormonal methods, primarily the pill, than their peers in other countries. Among adolescents who had sex in the past month: almost 25% of males and 40% of females did not use a condom. The research also found that US teens who become pregnant are less likely to choose abortion. This could be due to the fact that the resources for abortions are not readily available. 75% of women in rural areas have to drive at least 50 miles for abortion services. 87% of United States counties do not have an abortion provider.\n\nThere were 334,000 births among girls aged 19 or younger in 2011, representing 8% of all\nU.S. births. Births to teen mothers peaked in 1991 at 62 births per 1,000 girls. This rate was halved by 2011 when there were 31 births per 1,000 girls. About 25% of teenage mothers have a second child within 24 months of the first birth.\n\nTeenagers are becoming better contracepters because they realize that their sexual partners may not be a reliable coparent. Marriage rates over the 1990s through the 2010s with teenagers has drastically declined because of this realization. Since contraception has become more obtainable for teenagers, they are preventing unwanted pregnancies.\n\nFor every 1,000 black boys in the United States, 29 of them are fathers, compared to 14 per 1,000 white boys. The rate of teen fatherhood declined 36% between 1991 and 2010, from 25 to 16 per 1,000 males aged 15–19. This decline was more substantial among blacks than among whites (50% vs. 26%) and about half of the rate among teen girls. Nearly 80% of teenage fathers do not marry the teenage mother of their child. Teenage fathers have 10-15% lower annual earnings than teenagers who do not father children.\n\nMost female teens report that they would be very upset (58%) or a little upset (29%) if they got pregnant, while the remaining 13% report that they would be a little or very pleased. Most male teens report that they would be very upset (47%) or a little upset (34%) if they got someone pregnant, while the remaining 18% report that they would be a little or very pleased.\n\nParenting as a teenager has detrimental effects on the children. Children born to teenage mothers are more likely to: be born prematurely, 50% more likely to repeat a grade, live in poverty, and suffer higher rates of abuse. The sons of teen mothers are 13% more likely to end up incarcerated, and the daughters of teenage mothers are 22% more likely to become teenage mothers. More than 25% of teen mothers live in poverty during their 20s.\n\nTeenage pregnancy imposes lasting hardships on two generations: mother and child. Evidence from U.S. studies show that women who bear their first child at an early age bear more children rapidly and have more unwanted and out-of-wedlock births. Children of teenage parents are more likely to have lower academic achievements and tend to repeat the cycle of early marriage and early childbearing of their parents.\n\nSince the Great Recession, young people take three times longer to gain financial independence than it took for young people three decades ago. It is much harder for teenage parents to be able to support a family compared to the past due to the competitive work environment.\n\nMore than 50% of teenage mothers do not graduate from high school. Some high schools in the United States offer a program for pregnant and parenting teens to continue their education. These are sometimes referred to as \"Teen Parent Programs\".\n\nThere are several benefits to these school based programs, the number one benefit being teens are able to continue their high school education. Studies have shown that when teen parents stay in school after being pregnant, they have a better chance of graduating high school. Less than 2% of teen moms earn a college degree by age 30. Many of these programs offer on-campus childcare. Some even require the pregnant and parenting teens to attend parenting classes or practicum classes. The parenting classes offer a place for these young parents to learn about the basic needs of a child. While, the practicum classes offer a hands on experience caring for the children in the childcare center.\n\nStatistics show that less than 10% of teen parents earn their high school diploma by their eighteenth birthday. These programs are trying to change those statistics. Currently (2016), San Diego County has 7 high schools that offer these teen parent programs.\n\nThe United States has the highest rates of teenage pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases in developed countries. The two primary reasons given by teenagers for not using protection is that the chance of becoming pregnant is small, and the failure to anticipate intercourse. Teen pregnancies can be prevented. The best method of reducing the consequences of teenage parenthood is by providing reproductive health services to prevent teenagers from becoming pregnant in the first place. Prevention can not only be beneficial on a micro level but it is also beneficial on a more macro scale. Nationally, teen pregnancies cost tax payers an average of $9.4 billion each year. These costs are associated with health care, foster care, criminal justice, public assistance and lost tax revenue. Teen pregnancies can be prevented by increasing access and education on the proper use of contraceptives, as well as parental involvement. The best method of prevention is to integrate sex and STD education into the middle and high school science curriculum as well as addressing the effects of teenage pregnancies in the social studies curriculum.\n\nThere are large differences in adolescent pregnancy rates among developed nations like Canada, France, Great Britain, Sweden and the United States. The United States has the highest number of teen pregnancies and the highest number of STD’s compared to the other four countries. In France and Sweden during the late '90s, pregnancies were 20 per 1,000 women at ages 15–19.\n\nIn Canada and Great Britain the levels were twice that, and the United States the level was 4 times as high with 84 per 1,000 teenage women pregnant. The likelihood of pregnant teenage girls having abortions across the four countries differ and exclude miscarriages. In the U.S. abortion rates for 15–19 years are 35% while in Sweden it was 69%. Leaving Great Britain with 39%, Canada with 46% and France with 51%.\n\nIt has been suggested that the U.S. teen pregnancy rate is higher because of the prevalence of abstinence-only sex education. As a result, these adolescents are not fully aware of how to respond to sexual activity if it comes their way. The mentality of some education systems in the U.S. have the idea that if they do not teach safe sex, adolescents will refrain from sex. As the data concludes from above that compared to the other developed countries the U.S. is four times as likely to have a teen pregnancy. Yet the U.S. also uses less contraceptive, has more abortions and more prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases than the other developed countries. \n\nIn the U.S. all states are involved in sex education, but each state has differences in what they teach. Some states choose to go in detail others just cover the bases. Which include 39 states that require “some” education related to sexuality. There are 21 states that are required by law to teach sexuality and STD education. 17 states only require the teaching of STDs and not sexual education. There are also 11 states that have no requirement and leave it up to that state to decide whether or not they teach sex education.\n\nAlthough there is a noticeable decline in U.S. teen pregnancy, the current rate is still 2-4 times more than in Canada, France, Great Britain, and Sweden. The biggest difference in the rate of pregnancies in the United States compared to the other countries is that in America there is a very high unintended pregnancy rate. This unintended pregnancy rate is higher than the total teenage pregnancy rate in all of the four countries.\nIn 2010 there was a rate of 57 pregnancies per 1,000 women aged 15–19. Most of those women reported that it was an unplanned pregnancy. This shows a 15% drop in pregnancies from 2008 to 2010. There is a huge decline in adolescent pregnancy for the nation as a whole. The cause of these declines are from abstaining from sex or better use of contraceptives. Birth rates among younger teens ages 15–17 have also fallen faster – dropping by 50%, compared with a 39% decline among older teens ages 18 and 19. Researchers have concluded that these declines stem from improvement in use of contraceptives.\n\n"}
{"id": "57615942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57615942", "title": "Telegram in Iran", "text": "Telegram in Iran\n\nThe Telegram instant messaging service has more than 50 million users in Iran and 60% of the country's Internet's bandwidth is spent on using this app.\n\nFollowing the disruptions caused by the Iranian government in the Viber and Line services, the Iranian people were attracted to Telegram. Security was the most important reason that led to this immigration. Additionally, this service permitted exchanging files up to 1 gigabyte.\n\nThe Islamic Republic of Iran has repeatedly considered the topic of blocking access to Telegram and has always imposed limitations on users' access. During the protests on December 8, 2017, Telegram was blocked for more than a week and finally became available again on December 23, 2017. It was reblocked on May 10, 2017 by judicial authorities. In the judicial order of the Tehran Prosecutor's Office, it was said that Telegram must be blocked by ISPs in such a way that it could not be achieved even with tools similar to VPNs.\n\nThe two-time experience of blocking Telegram in Iran shows that Iranian users did not migrate to alternative services, such as the foreign WhatsApp, or the domestic Soroush messenger, but resorted to Internet censorship circumvention.\n\nOn 20 October 2015, Paul Durov, CEO of Telegram LLC said, after denying the request of Iranian authorities for private information about citizens of the country, Telegram was blocked for hours in Iran, but it was unblocked afterwards. Pavel Durov wrote an answer letter and announced that \"Iranian authorities want to use Telegram to spy on their citizens. We can not help them in this regard.\"\n\nFollowing the Iranian government policy to censor every social network and instant messaging service in Iran, they have continued to disrupt access to Telegram. On Saturday, 19 May 2015, the telecommunication company of Iran blocked Telegram access in some parts of the Tehran province and some other provinces without prior notice.\n\nOnly one day after Telegram introduced the voice call feature in the messenger, the voice call functionality was completely blocked in Iran. Paul Durov wrote in response to users who had asked about voice calls problems in Iran: \"Internet service providers in Iran have blocked it again.\" The low cost of calling using this feature and the subsequent financial losses incurred by the telecommunication network operators, including the stated-owned Mobile Telecommunication Company of Iran, may have motivated the block, Although public relations of MTN Irancell announced that the operator has played no role in the disruption of the service.\n\nFollowing the nationwide protests in Iran in 2017 and 2018, and to prevent rioting, the Supreme National Security Council of Iran decided to cut off all social networks, including Telegram, although it was said to be temporary. On the night of January 23, 2017, the block was lifted.\n\n"}
{"id": "5089827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5089827", "title": "Tingal people", "text": "Tingal people\n\nTingal is an ethnic group in Northern Sudan. They speak Tingal, a Niger–Congo language. They number at least several thousands. \n\n"}
{"id": "47017832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47017832", "title": "Toilet service", "text": "Toilet service\n\nA toilet service is a set of objects for use at the dressing table. The term is usually reserved for large luxury sets from the 17th to 19th centuries, with \"toilet set\" used for later or simpler sets. Historically, services were made in metal, ceramics, and other materials, for both men and women, though male versions were generally much smaller. The rich had services in gold, silver, or silver-gilt. The contents vary, but typically include a mirror, one or more small ewers and basins, two candlesticks, and an assortment of bowls, boxes, caskets, and other containers. One or more brushes and a pin-cushion, often as a top to a box, are often included. The sets usually came with a custom-made travelling case, and some services were especially designed for travelling.\n\nThe toilet service was the most important item of \"dressing plate\", as opposed to table plate, and was often a gift upon marriage; sometimes augmented on the birth of children. It was normally the personal property of the wife. The morning levée was sometimes a semi-public occasion for great persons in the early modern period, and the toilet service might be seen by many people.\n\nThe word toilet comes from the French \"toile\" meaning cloth, and \"toilette\" (\"little cloth\") first came to mean the morning routine of washing, tidying hair, and shaving and making up as appropriate, from the cloth often spread on the dressing-table where this was done. This meaning spread into English as \"toilet\" in the 17th century; only later did \"toilet\" start to compete with \"lavatory\" as a euphemism. The Oxford English Dictionary records \"toilet\" in English first, from 1540, as a term for a cloth used to wrap clothes in, then from 1662 (by John Evelyn) for a gold toilet service, and before 1700 for a range of related meanings (a towel, the cloth on a dressing-table, the act of using a dressing-table, and so on), but not for a lavatory, which did not come into use until the 19th century.\n\nThe contents of a service were variable but the classical grouping had as its largest piece the mirror, usually decorated at the top with some form of crest. In the 17th century these were rectangular, usually oblongs in \"portrait\" format, though the Louvre mirror and the Lennoxlove service use a \"landscape\" format. The frame normally had a wooden framework holding the glass, over which the metal was fitted. In the 18th century oval mirrors began to be used, and later the introduction of dressing tables with built-in mirrors was part of the decline from fashion of the toilet service. Depictions in art, such as the Zoffany of Queen Charlotte, wife of George III, usually show that the elaborate crest at the top of the mirror has disappeared beneath the lace covers spreading to the sides, which are probably tied round it. These were used to pull over the service on its table when it was not in use, or when husbands or other inconvenient visitors appeared in the dressing room.\n\nThe service usually contained two fairly small candlesticks, allowing the face to be lit from below. There may also be \"hand-candles\", \"chamber candles\" or \"chamber sticks\", short, with a wide saucer-like base and a loop or handle. These were the last lights to be put out at night, and were carried in the hand. Candlestick makers (who always used casting) were treated as a speciality within silversmithing, and the candlesticks may be made by different workshops from the other pieces, as may any snuffers, also regarded as a speciality.\nThe service often contains one or a pair of ewer and basin sets for washing. There is normally a number of other vessels of various sizes and shapes, some covered and others not, which go by a great variety of names, and whose purpose was perhaps always rather undefined. A variety of brushes might be included, and sometimes a small bell. In the 18th century glass and porcelain items might be mixed in with the silver ones. Services also might contain food plates and cutlery (usually just for one) for breakfast or snacks in the bedroom or dressing-room, or when travelling. One large type of bowl is connected with oatmeal, though it seems this might either be made into a facial, or eaten as porridge (or both, with a pair). Descriptions include items such as comb-boxes, glove-trays, soap-boxes, low tazze (or \"waiters\"), salvers, ecuelles (small bowls with two handles) and others. The 48-piece German Schenk von Stauffenberg service (1740s, now Metropolitan Museum of Art) contains several items for food and drink, including a teapot, and also items for writing, such as an inkstand.\n\nThe male service was much simpler, typically consisting of a shaving-bowl (oval, with a crescent cut out at one side), ewer and basin, a soap-box, toothbrush holder, perhaps a tongue-scraper and some boxes and bowls. These started later, in the 18th-century, when men began to shave themselves, or have a servant do it, rather than requiring a quasi-medical barber surgeon specialist. \n\nIn \"Mundus Muliebris\", a satire on fashionable ladies published in 1700, by Mary Evelyn, the daughter of John Evelyn (or by him, or both of them), the toilet service was described. Although by no means an insider at court, Evelyn was able to see the queen's toilet service and his diary records his admiring comments. In the poem:\n\n<poem>:A new Scene to us next presents,\n\nIn the 18th-century special dressing-tables with a fitted mirror began to be made, so removing the need for the traditional centrepiece of a service. Men also had special shaving tables, often on long legs for shaving standing up.\n\nThe full toilette did not always occur at the start of the day, but might be before going out or having a formal meal. In the Zoffany portrait of Queen Charlotte above: \"... Father Time appears scythe-bearing on the clock, but the face reads exactly 2.30pm, which means that the Princes have finished their dinner (which since November 1764 they had taken at 2.00pm) and are visiting their mother, after she has dressed (a process which began at 1.00pm), while their governess waits in the room beyond. The Queen will dine with the King at exactly 4.00pm.\"\n\nEarlier examples of the component pieces existed, as is clear from documentary records and stray surviving pieces, but the toilet service as a large matching set of pieces seems to become common among the rich in the 17th century, and especially the France of Louis XIV. Sets of ewers and basins such as the Lomellini Ewer and Basin were a staple of display plate well before this, but the many paintings of the \"Toilet of Venus\", for example by Rubens, show that until about 1650 even goddesses used mirrors with wooden frames. Although many were made, very few Louis XIV toilet services survive, and these are all ones that left France quickly, and escaped the very effective drives at the end of Louis's reign to get the nobility to donate their plate to help pay for the ruinous Nine Years' War and War of the Spanish Succession. Exiled Huguenot silversmiths helped to spread French styles in England and elsewhere. Once established, the characteristic types of pieces changed little, but their style followed general fashions in the decorative arts.\n\nHeraldic decoration with the coat of arms of the owner was very common. This could be engraved, or on small cast pieces attached to the main vessel by bolts. This method made it easier to change the heraldry if a service changed hands to a different family, and is used on the Lennoxlove and other services. It is clear that many services were mainly made up from standard designs, perhaps often available from a silversmith's stock, and often built up taking some individual pieces from other silversmiths working with the same designs. Moulds were also lent between workshops. In the 18th century pattern books became important, initially mostly French, but later originating in England and other countries; these supplemented earlier drawings and individual prints. The sophisticated and complicated designs of the Rococo accelerated this process.\n\nExcept for heraldic animals, putti and decorative masks, figurative decoration was relatively unusual until the advent of porcelain or enamel in the 18th century, but a group of English services of the 1680s use the same plaquette designs, of uncertain origin, on the tops of round and rectangular boxes, as well as elaborate cast and chased decoration of foliage and putti. These are a service (London 1683) once in the collection of J.P. Morgan, now in the Al Tajir collection, the Calverly service in the Victoria and Albert Museum, and another. The English Sackville service of about 1750 (Museum of Fine Arts, Boston) has several pieces decorated with scenes of lovers in landscapes.\nA few services survive in the very different technique of Asian filigree, with scrolling filigree decoration applied to plain silver beneath, or left as openwork. These are concentrated in the Hermitage Museum and Burghley House in England. They appear to come from China, and India in the case of one of the Hermitage services. \nIn the 18th century services continued to be made, with both the Rococo and Neoclassical styles lending themselves well to dressing plate. By the mid-century the large service was falling somewhat out of fashion, and fewer were made. The depiction of the toilette in William Hogarth's \"\" (1743), with a mirror larger than in any surviving example, is disapproving, and one of many satirical accounts and caricatures. At the same time the development of dressing tables with integral mirrors, and porcelain vessels, represented an alternative style of toilet equipment. The silver-gilt Neoclassical service made in London in 1779, now in Sweden (illustrated at top) is a late English example, and Philippa Glanville describes the Zoffany portrait of Queen Charlotte as showing \"almost the latest flourish of the silver toilet service\", although George III gave her another service a few years later.\n\nOlder services continued to be in demand, and the provenance of several surviving examples shows them being bought and sold, presumably for continued use (see the Shireburn/Norfolk service below). Several services were created from pieces by several different makers from a range of years, as can be seen from their hallmarks; for example the Lennoxlove service contains hallmarks from a period of some 15 years. A service in the Royal Collection was created in 1824–25 for Frederick, Duke of York, mostly using pieces a century or more old, supplemented by some contemporary ones and a new case.\n\nPorcelain services were produced from the 18th century onwards. Initially the grandest examples were hardly less expensive than silver. What was probably Madame de Pompadour's Sèvres porcelain service of 1763 is in the Wallace Collection in London. She died the following year and the service was probably incomplete and never delivered. Lacking a mirror, it has three pairs of containers and two brushes. When Maria Feodorovna, wife of the future Tsar Paul I of Russia visited Paris in 1782 under a thin incognito as the \"Comtesse du Nord\", Queen Marie Antoinette gave her a Sèvres toilet service that cost 75,000 livres, though this included decoration in a complicated technique using gold foil, enamel and jewels.\n\nAnother large service in Meissen porcelain with gold mounts was given to Maria Amalia of Saxony, Queen of Naples and later of Spain, by her mother Maria Josepha of Austria in 1747, to celebrate the birth of her son. A service in Vincennes porcelain with Parisian gold mounts was apparently intended as a diplomatic gift to Constantinople in the mid-1750s, but was never completed, perhaps because Franco-Turkish relations deteriorated. A casket survives in the Wallace Collection in London.\nQueen Victoria's Minton porcelain service, given as a Christmas present by Prince Albert in 1853, remains on display in her dressing-room at Osbourne House.\n\nBattersea enamel was also used for toilet items; the Royal Collection has a set of 7 rectangular \"toilet boxes\" from c. 1765, painted with pastoral landscapes around Rome.\n\nMost services originally had custom travelling cases, as most owners had more than one residence. Some of these survive; the Lennoxlove service was found in its ornate \"travelling chest\" in the attic of Lennoxlove House in 1924, having apparently been overlooked as the house had changed hands more than once. The Naples Meissen porcelain service, which had an unusually long way to travel from its maker in Dresden, had an individual leather case for each item.\n\nSome services were made with an eye to being compact and easily transportable. The \"necessaire\" was a term for either a small decorative container for small handy tools such as scissors, tweezers, a spoon, pencil and similar, these also called an etui, or a larger travelling set, originally usually concentrating on small sets of pieces for drinks such as tea and coffee, but later expanded to also include articles for the toilet, writing, sewing, and medicine. The larger cases also became works of art in their own right, with fine inlays in brass. As a frequent traveller, Napoleon commissioned several of these.\n\nThe surviving piece that goes back closest to the origin of the grand toilet set is the mirror from the service of Anne Hyde, wife of the future James II of England, which was made in Paris in 1660–61, and is now in the Louvre. This probably drew from the design of the 40 piece service, now lost, given by Louis XIV to Anne of Austria, which is usually taken to be the first of the grand matching services; this may have been in solid gold.\n\nOnly three marked French toilet services from the reign of Louis XIV survive. Chatsworth House has a 23 piece service made for Queen Mary II of England, the Museum of Scotland has the 17 piece Lennoxlove Service, and Rosenborg Castle, Copenhagen has a 17 piece service owned by a Swedish princess. A further unmarked set is now in a museum in Toledo, Ohio; this is \"almost identical\" to the Lennoxlove service.\n\nSome 25 English toilet services from before 1800 survive, about half now abroad; in 2012 an expert report to the official committee granting export licences recorded only 12 English-made metal toilet services in British collections. Knole House has an English set of 18 pieces made in 1674, the earliest English-made service. The 14 pieces in the service at Weston Park are hallmarked for 1679. \n\nOne of these, a 34 piece silver-gilt English toilet service made in 1708, and presented by her father to Maria Howard, Duchess of Norfolk on her marriage was granted an export license from the UK to Australia in 2012, despite objections by the Victoria and Albert Museum. Having cost around £700 in 1708, paid in installments, it was sold for £1,380,000 in 2012. It was made by the leading London silversmith Benjamin Pyne in the \"plain English\" style, as opposed to the French style used by Huguenot makers. It had been bought by the London jewellers Rundell, Bridge & Rundell as part-exchange for a new dinner service for the Duke of Norfolk in the early 19th century, and they it sold to William Lowther, 1st Earl of Lonsdale, adding his cypher \"discreetly\".\n\nThe Ashmolean Museum in Oxford has two significant examples, the Acton toilet service (14 pieces, silver, London, 1699–1700), and the Treby toilet service (29 pieces, London, Paul de Lamerie, 1724–1725), for which the bill survives, giving interesting information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56392106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56392106", "title": "Whyman McLean", "text": "Whyman McLean\n\nWhyman McLean was an Australian Aboriginal man, a religious missionary who later served as an Aboriginal tracker in the New South Wales Police Force for thirty years until his retirement in 1925.\n\nWhyman McLean was born at Morago, New South Wales in approximately 1860. He was the son of Archibald McLean and Louisa, an Aboriginal woman. As a young man, Whyman lived on the Maloga Mission.\n\nMcLean worked for many years as a missionary, travelling to Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne and raising money for the Maloga Mission cause. He also lived on the Warangesda Mission in the early 1890s. \n\nIn February 1897 Whyman became a tracker for the New South Wales police, based at Tumbarumba. After five years he transferred to Wagga Wagga. He served 28 years at the police station in Wagga and worked on cases as far afield as Gundagai. During his time on the police force he was responsible for the recovery of 34 bodies of people who had drowned in the Murrumbidgee River. He was also instrumental in tracking and capturing up to 120 fugitives who were brought before the courts.\n\nWhyman McLean fell ill in December 1926 and was taken to Callan Park Hospital in Sydney where he died on 23 December 1926.\n"}
