{"id": "10708281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10708281", "title": "Abdul Rashid Ghazi", "text": "Abdul Rashid Ghazi\n\nAbdul Rashid (عبدالرشيد; ca. 1964 – July 10, 2007) was an Islamist Pakistani fundamentalist and a human rights activist, son of Muhammad Abdullah Ghazi, and younger brother of Maulana Abdul Aziz Ghazi. He was descended from the Sadwani clan of Mazari tribe in the town of Rojhan in Rajanpur, the border district of Punjab province of Pakistan.\n\nAbdul Rashid was killed during Operation Silence after Pakistan Army Special Operations Commandos' teams stormed the Madrasah he and his students had been using.\n\nIn his youth Abdul Rashid defied his father's wish that he receive formal Islamic education as he wanted to live a modern life. He completed his MSc in International Relations from Quaid-e-Azam University Islamabad in 1987–1988. According to one of his professors, \"He was a normal, modern student who was well adjusted to a co-educational system.\"\n\nAfter taking an M.Sc. in history, he obtained a job at The Ministry of Education in Islamabad, and later worked with UNESCO, a specialized agency of the United Nations (UN) based in Paris, as Seventeenth Grade Officer.\n\nDuring The Soviet Invasion Of Afghanistan His Father Muhammad Abdullah Ghazi Played A Major role in Recruiting and Training mujahideen,And In 1998, Abdul Rasheed Ghazi And His Father Maulana Abdullah Ghazi Met Bin Laden, Ghazi Recalling The Events Once Said Stated : \"The Meeting Inspired Me To Work Hard For The Establishment of Islam\" He Further Recalled That At The End Of Meeting He Picked Up A Glass From Which Bin Laden Was Drinking Water And Drank It, An amused Bin Laden Asked Ghazi, Why He Did That? To Which Ghazi Replied : I Drank From Your Glass So That Allah Would Make Me A (Great) Warrior Like You\n\nA week after Ghazi and his father returned from Kandahar, on Saturday October 17, 1998, Ghazi's father who had a routine every day whereby he would walk to his seminary (the Al Faridia University in Sector E-7 Of Islamabad) for giving lectures, At noon when he returned his elder son approached him and spoke to him. When Maulana approached his house, a man standing in front of the door walked towards him and pulled out a gun and opened fire until the magazine was empty, badly injuring Maulana. Afterwards, he fired at Abdul Aziz Ghazi, who barely escaped death. The assassin escaped with the help of an accomplice waiting outside in a car. Maulana Abdullah died of his injuries on the way to the hospital.\n\nAbdul Rashid Ghazi lodged the FIR and the police investigated the case. After a relentless effort, a man was arrested and afterwards, during ID Parade Several Eye witnesses identified the assassin. However, he was released the next day without reason. Abdul Rashid Ghazi protested against the release and warned the police of legal action if the suspect was not arrested soon. With Ghazi increasing pressure on police, a military officer asked Ghazi to withdraw the case or face the fate of his father.According to his friend, this was turning point in Ghazi's life, and he became disillusioned him with system.\n\nAbdul Rashid Ghazi first came to the scene in the year 2001, when the religious parties of the country announced an organization for the defense of Afghanistan against the American invasion. Abdul Rashid Ghazi, who had now been a Maulana, did not suddenly have any religious religious education and degree, was considered the main leader of Mawlawi's alliance. Everyday in Islamabad, there would be a rally and Maulana Abdul Rashid Ghazi addressed in the emotional way standing with other religious leaders.\n\nIn August 2004, The Pakistan government claimed He Was involved in a plot against the president, the army and parliament; however this was later refuted by the government minister for religious affairs And Later On By The Government.\n\nGhazi was a well-known activist against Enforced disappearances in Pakistan, and in 2004 , he founded Defense of Muslim Rights, and Later On in 2006, he Co-founded Defence of Human Rights Pakistan. Alongside human rights activist Amina Masood Janjua And Khalid Khawaja\n\nIn early 2005, one morning just after dawn, Ghazi was returning from teaching a class at The Al Faridia Seminary (which he managed and was the chancellor of). He was driving along a four-lane highway in the shadow of the Margalla Hills when he noticed that someone in a nearby car was waving a gun at him. Ghazi fired warning shots from his licensed pistol, confusing the assassins, after which they sped away.\n\nAfter negotiations Allegedly failed, the military decided to take an action against, and it began as Pakistan Army Special Forces (SF), Pakistan Army Rangers, and Special Service Group (SSG) stormed the mosque. \nGhazi himself remained in seminary with a few students. He called for a safe way in which he would not be humiliated like his brother, but government denied his requests. The Pakistan Ministry of Interior reported that he was killed on 10 July 2007 during Operation Silence. According to the ISPR, the body of was found in the basement of the Lal Masjid.\n\nA few days after his death, his famous saying \"We can be martyred but we will not surrender\" was featured as Quote of the Day on Time's website.\n\nOn July 14, a few days after the Lal Masjid siege, Osama bin Laden released a tape. He was shown with a fatigued expression. \"We in al Qaeda organization call on God to witness that we will retaliate for the blood of ... Abdul Rashid Ghazi and those with him against Musharraf and those who help him, and for all the pure and innocent blood,\" he said.\n\nOn September 20, 2007, Bin Laden released a new tape called \"Come to Jihad\" with his voice over previously released footage of him. In the tape bin Laden called on Pakistanis to overthrow President Pervez Musharraf, promising what he called retaliation for the storming of the Red Mosque.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22650606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22650606", "title": "Americans in Pakistan", "text": "Americans in Pakistan\n\nAmericans in Pakistan (Urdu: امریکی ) form a sizeable expatriate community. According to Pakistan's Ministry of Interior, there were 52,486 American citizens residing in Pakistan as of 2015. Some of them are Pakistani Americans who have returned to Pakistan. Many Pakistani Americans returned during the unstable conditions post-September 11 attacks and the global financial crisis.\n\nAccording to early statistics of 1999 based on registrations with the local American embassy and consulates, there were over 4,200 Americans in the country, with 2,100 in Pakistan's financial capital Karachi, about 1,250 in Lahore, 506 in Islamabad and 375 in Peshawar.\n\n America also maintains a large diplomatic and military contingent in the country; media reports claim that , in addition to 275 diplomats, there are more than a thousand US Marines providing security to diplomatic personnel, and hundreds more unregistered officials living in private houses. This represents significant growth over 1999, when the American diplomatic contingent in the country barely exceeded one hundred people. However, Pakistani officials deny the reports of more than a thousand US Marines in the country.\n\nFor the American community in Karachi, the American Club once was the centre of their social life. There is also an American School of Karachi, but it had only a handful of American students and teachers.\n\nIn late 2009, Pakistan held up many visas for U.S. diplomats, military service members and others, because of hostility inside Pakistan toward the expansion of U.S. operations in the country, while many suspected Americans living in Pakistan were detained following five American terrorists linked to Al-Qaeda arrested in Sargodha.\n\nIn the latter half of 2009, many media organizations reported about the possible presence in Pakistan of personnel from the American private military corporation Xe (formerly Blackwater). Several American suspects were arrested in Pakistan. The presence of these American personnel has been a controversial issue in Pakistani media and has caused uproar in the general public, with people questioning their activities in the country and viewing them as spies.\n\nPakistani newspapers claim that American diplomats in Pakistan carried automatic weapons without a license, attacked local citizens, and cursed at local policemen. They have also allegedly dodged law enforcement personnel and security screenings on motorways, airports and elsewhere on multiple occasions. In January 2011, an American national and CIA contractor Raymond Davis was involved in a shootout that killed three Pakistanis in Lahore, resulting in a diplomatic rift between Pakistan and the United States. Davis was later freed by the Pakistani government and the families of the victims were paid compensation, in spite of large public opposition to his acquittal. In February 2011, American citizen Aaron Mark DeHaven was arrested in Peshawar after he was found allegedly overstaying his visa illegally. He was later deported. In May 2011, an American national Mathew Greg Bennett was tailed and arrested by law enforcement agencies in Rawalpindi on claims of involvement in suspicious activities.\nIn June 2011, an American citizen living in Pakistan with his Pakistani wife and family, Mathew Craig Barret, was arrested in Islamabad. Barret was suspected to be spying on the country's nuclear facilities and was blacklisted by the interior ministry after he had dodged an earlier arrest allegedly after being found doing \"suspicious activities.\" Following a police raid in his house, he was put in lock-up jail and was to be deported and prevented from entering the country. On 12 June 2011, yet another American national was arrested, this time in Sukkur; David Sat, who was working for an NGO, was detained by authorities after he was found to have overstayed his visa by two months. A case was registered against him. Pakistani security and defence expert Shireen Mazari, who is also known for being a vocal critic of American policies, once had a verbal brawl in an Islamabad restaurant with an American man whom she later referred to as a \"bloody CIA agent\"; Mazari said that suspicious looking Americans are prevalent in large numbers in Islamabad, operating under the cover of diplomacy, and that they are \"running loose in Islamabad intimidating whomever they choose.\"\n\nPakistan has blacklisted many American non-governmental organizations and media personalities and denied visas to US nationals.\nIn 2011, after continuous scrutiny and following the death of Osama bin Laden in his compound in Abbottabad which caused a diplomatic controversy between Pakistan and the United States, the Pakistani government and the military establishment ordered the reduction of the number of American personnel present in Pakistan. Consequently, many American security personnel were dumped and forced to leave the country.\n\nIn 2003, the American actor Erik Audé was arrested and imprisoned for seven years in Pakistan on charges of drug trafficking.\n\nIn 1997, four American oil workers and their driver were shot by multiple gunmen while they sat in their car on a crowded street. Two men, both members of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement, were sentenced to death in 1999 for the shootings. In 2002, there were further terrorist attacks against Americans and expatriates of other nationalities, including a bombing at the US consulate. In November 2008, foreign aid worker Stephen Vance was ambushed and killed on his way to work in Peshawar. In 2003, \"The New York Times\" named Karachi \"one of the most dangerous spots on the planet for an American\". In 2015, an American medical professor was shot and injured in Karachi.\n\nAmerican international schools in Pakistan include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33487862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33487862", "title": "Batu language", "text": "Batu language\n\nBatu is a Tivoid language of Nigeria. Dialects are Amanda-Afi, Angwe, Kamino.\n"}
{"id": "26085407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26085407", "title": "Business interaction networks", "text": "Business interaction networks\n\nBusiness interaction networks are networks that allow businesses and their communities of interest to collaborate and do business online securely via the Internet. \n\nMary Johnston Turner first discussed the concept in a Network World opinion piece in August, 1995, and attributed the first advocacy for the concept to the now-defunct BBN Planet, the ISP division of BBN Technologies.\n"}
{"id": "52278826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52278826", "title": "Cannabis in Nepal", "text": "Cannabis in Nepal\n\nCannabis in Nepal has been illegal since 1973, but the region has a long history of use of cannabis as an intoxicant, and continues to produce cannabis illicitly.\n\nNepal has used psychoactive cannabis for centuries, and as early as the 1700s Nepalese \"charas\" was recognized as the best available.\n\nIn the early 1800s, commentator Francis Buchanan-Hamilton noted:\nIn the 1960s, the Hippie Trail began to route young Western adventurers through Nepal. The stable traditional cannabis economy was rocked by the influx of demand, and the heavy usage by visitors normalized and made trendy cannabis consumption locally. The increased demand and linkage to outside markets led to an increase in hashish production, and smuggling routes established through India and out to the wider world.\n\nIn 1973, Nepal canceled the licenses of all cannabis shops, dealers, and farmers, under pressure from the United States and the international community. However, personal cultivation and use were unaffected, and cannabis commerce continued illicitly. The loss of $100,000 in government revenues caused disruption, and later in the 1970s attempts were made at crop substitution.\n\nToday, it is only legal to smoke hashish during Maha Shivaratri.\nIn Nepal, cannabis seeds are also used in making pickles \"bhang ko achar\". The dried seeds are ground and then mixed with aalo (potato). This is common in hilly area like Kathmandu, Pokhara of Nepal.\n"}
{"id": "33283616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33283616", "title": "Chinese people in Angola", "text": "Chinese people in Angola\n\nChinese people in Angola are a recent group of residents, having arrived in Angola in the past few decades.\n\nThousands of Chinese construction workers, engineers, planners, and support staff that includes doctors and cooks reside in Angola, making the construction sector a large magnet for Chinese. \n\nOver 500 Chinese companies have operated in Angola, as part of post-war reconstruction. The height of the wave was around 2012 when Angola's Office of Migration and Foreigners, stated 258,920 Chinese resided in Angola, the vast majority (258,391) on work visas.\n\nThe level of the Chinese population before the crash in oil prices in 2014 has fallen dramatically. In 2017, a Chinese business association leader told Bloomberg that the population was approximately 50,000. Many Chinese have left the country recently because of rising crime against Chinese, including rapes, robberies and murder, the depreciation of Angola currency due to the oil crash, and halting of construction contracts by Chinese companies. \n\nDuring a large outbreak of yellow fever in Angola in the spring of 2016, eleven Chinese nationals were reported to have traveled home to China with the disease, with the last case in April 2016. The Chinese strengthened surveillance and sent a medical team to Angola to provide vaccination to Chinese nationals.\n\nḥ"}
{"id": "36822735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36822735", "title": "Dadullah (Pakistani Taliban)", "text": "Dadullah (Pakistani Taliban)\n\nJamal Said (c. 1965 - 24 August 2012) better known by the \"nom de guerre\" Mullah Dadullah and also Maulana Mohammad Jamal, was a senior member of the Pakistani Taliban. He was self-proclaimed Taliban leader in Pakistan's northern Bajaur Agency. He was killed in a NATO airstrike in the Shigal wa Sheltan District of Afghanistan's neighbouring Kunar Province on 24 August 2012. His deputy and ten Taliban fighters were also killed in the strike.\n\nDadullah was a former prayer leader and then became a Taliban commander. It was reported by AP that Dadullah became leader of the group after Bajur's former Pakistani Taliban leader, Maulvi Faqir Mohammed, fled to Afghanistan to avoid Pakistani army operations. He was succeeded by Maulana Abu Bakr.\n"}
{"id": "30675939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30675939", "title": "Demographics of Białystok", "text": "Demographics of Białystok\n\nHistorically, Białystok has been a destination for internal and foreign immigration, especially from Central and Eastern Europe. In addition to the Polish minority, there was a significant Jewish majority in Białystok. According to Russian census of 1897, out of the total population of 66,000, Jews constituted 41,900 (around 63% percent). World War II changed all of this, in 1939, ca. 107,000 persons lived in Białystok, but in 1946 – only 56,759, and to this day there is much less ethnic diversity than in the previous 300 years of the city's history. Currently the city's population is 97% Polish, 2.5% Belarusian and 0.5% of a number of minorities including Russians, Lipka Tartars, Ukrainians and Romani. Most of the modern day population growth is based on internal migration and urbanization.\n\nThe largest population in Białystok occurred in 2017 as reported by GUS 297 288 people.\n\nBiałystok is a center of culture and society of Belarus (according to the census, they are almost 7,500, which represents 2.5% of residents of Białystok). There is a Belarus Consulate in the city, and organizations exist such as the Belarusian Social and Cultural Association, the Belarusian Youth Union, the Union of Belarus to Poland, the Belarusian Association of Literary Bialowieza, Belarusian Historical Society, Belarusian Association of Journalists, Belarusian Students Association, Center for Civic Education, Poland-Belarus, Society of Belarusian Culture.\n\nBialystok also hosts cultural events such as nationwide Festival \"Belarusian Song\" and Day of Belarusian Culture. Belarus Radio Right () is based in the city and transmits radio programming to Belarus. There are a number of Belarusian-language newspapers: Niwa, Belarusian Historical Papers, Pravincyja and Czasopis.\n\nRussians are a minority, they are scattered around the territory of Poland but mostly reside in eastern Poland. There are 3244 Russians in Poland, living mainly in Białystok and the surrounding region, according to the 2002 census. The HFHR estimated around 13,000-15,000 Russians are in Poland. In Białystok, the main organization of work - Russian Cultural and Educational Association, organizing the Days of Russian Culture.\n\nThe Lipka Tatar origins can be traced back to the descendant states of the Mongol Empire of Genghis Khan - the White Horde, the Golden Horde, the Crimean Khanate and Kazan Khanate. They initially served as a noble military caste but later they became urban-dwellers known for their crafts, horses and gardening skills. Throughout centuries they resisted assimilation and kept their traditional lifestyle. While they remained very attached to their religions, over time however, they lost their original Tatar language and for the most part adopted Polish.\n\nAfter the annexation of eastern Poland into the Soviet Union following World War II, Poland was left with only 2 Tatar villages, Bohoniki and Kruszyniany. A significant number of the Tartars in the territories annexed to the USSR repatriated to Poland and clustered in or near Białystok.\nIn Poland, the Tatar population reached approximately 100,000 in 1630 but the 2002 census showed only 447 people declaring this ethnicity.\n\nIn 1925 the Muslim Religion Association (Muzułmański Związek Religijny) was formed in Białystok. In 1992, the \"Organization of Tatars of the Polish Republic\" (Związek Tatarów Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej) with autonomous branches in Białystok and Gdańsk began operating. The Białystok branch issues a magazine called \"Life Tatar\". The plan is to establish in Bialystok an \"'Institute for the History of the Tartars\".\n\nIn Bialystok there are other minorities: \n"}
{"id": "9349528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9349528", "title": "Dhaka topi", "text": "Dhaka topi\n\nDhaka topi () or Nepali topi is a type of brimless cap popular among Nepalis men, along with their diasporas.\n\n\"Dhaka ko Topi\" literately means a \"headgear made of Dhaka cloth\", a fine cotton cloth once exclusively imported from Dhaka, the present-day capital of Bangladesh.\n\nThe Dhaka topi is a part of the Nepalese national dress, and a symbol of Nepalese nationality. It became popular during the reign of King Mahendra, who ruled between 1955 and 1972, and made wearing a Dhaka topi mandatory for official photographs for passports and documents. Dhaka Topis are given away as gifts during Dashain and Tihar festivals. Dhaka topi is also worn by government officials as a part of the national dress. In the times of king Mahendra Dhaka topis for rent was available near the Singha Durbar (literally Lion Hall) in Kathmandu. The badge of kukri cross is worn on the cap largely by officials in Kathmandu or when a Nepalese visit the Palace, and not the lay Nepali.\n\nAlthough Dhaka clothing no longer dominates Nepalese fashion, it remains an integral part of the society and Nepalese identity. While many Nepalis now seldom wear a cap unless they are attending some cultural programme, many other men and women still wear costumes made from Dhaka on a regular basis, as it remains common sight on the streets of Kathmandu. Dhaka cloth still play a role in rituals, such as weddings and funerals of many ethnic groups living in the valley. Despite many hand-loom establishments that producing it, they still struggle to meet the constantly increasing demand for Dhaka topi. According to Tejeswar Babu Gongah, a columnist, cultural activist and cultural expert, \"The topi which is round at the base, with a height of 3 to 4 inches, indicates the mountains and the Himalayas of the country. The Dhaka topi is said to represent the mountain after the melting of the ice. The melted ice enables the growth of greenery and vibrantly coloured flowers in the lower regions of the mountain.\"\n\nInternational Nepali Dhoti and Topi Day is an day celebrated by Nepali people globally on 1 January to keep Nepali traditional fashion alive. Nepalis of Madhesi and Tharu ethnicity wear Dhoti, while all Nepali people wear Dhaka and Bhadgaunle topis on that day. Though topis are more prevalent in the day than dhoti, Madhesis have taken the opportunity to promote their distinct identity. Madhesis and Sikhs in Nepal are often discriminated against because of their refusal to wear Dhaka topi.\n\n\"Dhaka\", the hand-spun cotton inlay-pattern weaving used to make intricately patterned, colourful panels for Dhaka topis, is the most remarkable and visible cotton textile in Nepal. Pre-dyed cotton is imported from India and weaved by master craftspeople into intricate patterns using only a few colours. The fabric is also used for a type of blouse called \"Dhaka ko cholo\", literally meaning a \"blouse made of dhaka fabric\", and shawls for women. Some farmers and weavers have made preliminary trials of a silk Dhaka topi cloth with limited success.\n\nThere are different myths about the origin of Dhaka fabric. One story tells that a minister returned from Dhaka, Bangladesh with idea of such a topi, which eventually replaced the traditional black cap in popularity. Another story tells that name is so because the originally cloths and threads for Dhaka topi used to come from Dhaka, often resembling Dhakai muslin (fine cotton of Dhaka). It is also possible that Hindu weavers settled in Nepal to flee Muslim invasion of Bengal. The method of pattern weaving practised around Dhaka, called \"Jamdani\", is considerably different from what is currently practised by Nepalese weavers. A few fragments of Dhaka fabric in the collection of the National Museum of Nepal are assumed to be from early 20th century.\n\nThe most popular legend attributes the introduction of Dhaka weaving to Ganesh Man Maharjan, who worked in an Jamdani factory in 1950s. He was inspired to learn it when he noticed Dambar Kumari, Shree Teen Junga Bahadur Rana’s daughter, wearing Dhaka clothes she brought back from Benares. Upon returning to his native Palpa his wife and he established a factory to produce Dhaka cloth in 1957 with one spool and one hand-operated Charkha spinning-wheel bought from Kathmandu and local weavers trained by Mahajan. His operation flourished because of the high price of superior quality imports. As the Shah dynasty government showed a preference for Dhaka cloth and topis made out of it, other weavers started following Maharajan. By early 1970, his own factory Swadeshi Vastrakala Palpali Dhaka Udhyog had grown to employ some 350 workers. At that time Jaishanker Textile Industry, Khanal Textile Industry, and Nabin Textile Industry were the major producers of cotton yarn used to make Dhaka cloth.\n\nDespite booming business and government incentives, most weavers were poor. An expert weaver worked 12–16 hours a day for a month to produce 4–5 metres of Dhaka cloth. But, their wage was a measly 10-30 Nepalese rupees, one egg and 250 grams of Jeri. In 1970s, the Dhaka weaving industry in Palpa changed significantly as it was introduced to Jacquard loom and easily available shiny acrylic fiber. Jacquard looms made it possible to produce several meter a day, instead of the average 9-inches on a hand-loom. Many weavers lost their jobs, Palpa lost its near monopoly and Dhaka caps lost some of the intricacies of its patterns.\n\nNow weavers in capital Kathmandu, Palpa District in the middle mountains area, especially its headquarters Tansen municipality, and Tehrathum District in the East are the main producers of Dhaka cloth. Limbus and Rais from the middle mountains are famous for the Dhaka cloth they produce. Tansen, the most renowned source of Dhaka topis, is colourful town with Magar, Brahmin, Chhetris with Newars who came in the 19th century to seek their fortune. Apart its famous Dhaka fabric for topic, cholos and shawls, Tensen is also known for its metal craft including Karuwa mugs, jars and other items. It is a custom to buy Palpali Dhaka fabric products as souvenir while visiting the area, including topis, shawls and thailo purses that has two pairs of drawstrings to open and close the purse. A Dhaka topi industry has been established in Darjeeling by Indian Gorkhas.\n\nThe traditional outfit of Nepali men features \"Daura-Suruwal\" (Nepalese shirt and trouser suit), \"Patuka\" (cloth wrapped around the waist instead of a belt), \"ista coat\" (the Nepalese sleeveless half-jacket) and a topi, while \"Gunyou Cholo\" (a \"ghagra\"-\"kurta\" style women's dress) is the dress for a woman who generally wore no topi. Various ethnic groups wear their own constituent traditional dresses. For instance, the Tamang women wear distinctive headgear with an added cotton or woollen wrapper is also worn over the cap. Some Buddhist Tamang women wear \"Bakhus\" which are ethnic to the Tibetan people.\n\nThe once mandatory topi of a Nepali man can be either black (called \"bhaad-gaaule\" or \"kalo topi\") or multicoloured (called \"Dhaka\" or \"Nepali topi\"). \"Bhaad-gaaule topis\" are similar to Dhaka topi but they are black in colour given the fact that they are not made from Dhaka. Before the Nepali government started promoting Dhaka topis, Bhaad-gaaule topis largely made in Bhaktapur were the popular Nepali headgear, especially common to Newaris. These kalo topis (blacks caps), once preferred by Rana dynasty elites, are now making a comeback, particularly among the youth. Milliners of Bhaktapur, once almost put out of business by the advent of Dhaka topi, were making as many as 600 kalo topis a week by 2015. Besides Dhaka and kalo topis there are a number of other topis made and worn in Nepal including \"chuclie topi\", \"birke topi\", \"karchupe topi\" and \"cap topi\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22716353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22716353", "title": "Dil Murad Khan", "text": "Dil Murad Khan\n\nSardar Meer Dil Murad Khan Khoso was a Baloch warrior who opposed British invasion in his area by revolting against them in 1857. Being a sardar of the Khoso tribe he had a good support of his tribesmen plus that of other sardars of the area, namely Sardar Dariya Khan Jakhrani and Syed Inayat Ali Shah.\n\nOn the evening before they were to fight with British troops someone leaked information about the whereabouts of the warriors and their plan. Who leaked this information to British is not known. All the three sardars were arrested taken to some unknown area and then Dil Murad Khan was sentenced to life imprisonment, in the Andaman Islands while his campanions were sent to Aden.\n\nAfter his arrest his brother Shahal Khan I was imprisoned at Mach jail and was made to crush glasses that affected his eyesight and became blind and later on released as a blind person.\n\nWhen all this happened Dil Murad khan and Darya Khan Jakhrani had a vast area of agricultural land under their possession. All the land was confiscated and the Sardar title was taken back. Bahadur Khan Mir Bahadur Khan Khoso, the only son of Dil Murad Khan was a small boy and his mother Seza, a Jamali woman by tribe, took her son to General John Jacob's Durbar and bravely spoke to him saying, \"I am just a woman with a blind brother in law. I cannot support this boy so I request you to kindly arrest my son and send him to his father\". John Jacob was quite moved by these bold remarks of a tribal woman and ordered a piece of land to be given to the family near Dilmurad Wah in Thul Taluka.\n\nMir Bahadur Khan Khoso pursued a different life style and he proved himself to be an inventive genius who advised engineers on various irrigation projects. Bahadur Khan had more than forty thousand acres of land in Jacobabad District all purchased by himself.\n"}
{"id": "34904797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34904797", "title": "Dolk (artist)", "text": "Dolk (artist)\n\nDolk (meaning \"dagger\" in Norwegian) (Dolk Lundgren), is the pseudonym of Norway's most recognized stencil artist. His motives are often pop-cultural references put into a humoristic or critical context. Dolk's works can be seen on walls in cities such as Bergen, Berlin, Copenhagen, Barcelona, Oslo, Lisbon, Stockholm, London, Prague and Melbourne. Since 2006 Dolk has stepped into galleries where he has had several exhibitions.\n\nDolk was born in Bergen, Norway, in 1979 and started with stencil art in 2003. Dolk has education from mechanic courses in Bergen, and has studied graphic design in Melbourne. Dolk claims he was inspired by the British street artist Banksy to start with stencil art. Dolk started with stencil art in Bergen in 2003, where several of his works still are visible on walls in the city. He soon started travelling the world, and in London people have mistaken Dolk's works for being art by Banksy. Dolk has made stencil art in many cities. After a while Dolk wanted to take his art into more legal forms and he has since 2006 participated in exhibitions and art festivals all over the world. In 2008 Dolk and Pøbel created the project \"Ghetto Spedalsk\" in Lofoten, northern Norway. The goal was to move the urban art form into no man's land by painting 20 stencils on abandoned houses. In 2010 Dolk made three works of art for the opening of Halden prison, the art covers the walls in the exercise yard. Daily Mail called the prison \"the world's poshest prison, with plus £1m Banksy-style art\". In 2010 Dolk and Pøbel were paid by the Norwegian state to put their art up at the main railway stations in Oslo and Trondheim. In 2011 Dolk held his first separate exhibition in Oslo at the OSL Contemporary gallery where he sold out all 9 canvases for £12500 each. In 2011 Dolk was one of several street artists that got to decorate the walls at the Norwegian School of Economics as part of the project \"…………CAPITALISM?\". Dolk sells his works through the Bergen-based website handmadeposters.com, and in 2011, 250 copies of the print \"Mushroom Girl\" were sold out in 40 minutes. In 2012 he sold the prints \"TOY\" and \"Winner\" for over £110000 in less than two minutes. In 2012, Dolkblog.com was established; the unofficial fansite covers news, artwork, information etc. about the artist.\n\n</div>\n\nEarly in Dolk's career, it was speculated that Dolk was a pseudonym for the well-known British graffiti artist Banksy. The two artists have several stylistic similarities, and especially Banksy's work \"Puppy Love\" from 2005 has been pointed out as resembling Dolk. Dolk made his own version of this work where both the name and the colors were identical with the original.\n\nThe work \"Che\" from 2007 shows a cigar-smoking Che Guevara proudly pointing at his own t-shirt with the iconic portrait from 1960 taken by Alberto Korda of himself. Dolk's stencil is distinguished by many as the ultimate copy of this portrait, that after Che Guevara's death was pirate-copied, creating an enormous turnover. The stencil has been sold as the prints \"Che\" and \"Che XL\". The well-known street art website \"Pictures on Walls\" sold Dolk's \"Che\" as postcards in 2006.\n\nThe work \"Burger King\" from 2006 portrays Prince Charles in a birthday crown in paper from Burger King.\n\nThe work \"Spray\" is a twist on the iconic picture taken by Eddie Adams during the Vietnam War where general Nguyễn Ngọc Loan executes the Vietcong prisoner of war Nguyễn Văn Lém with a head shot. Dolk has exchanged the head with a flower, and the revolver with a spray bottle. In Bergen, this work was preserved in 2009 by the local government framing it in protective glass.\n\nThe project \"Ghetto Spedalsk\" in 2008 was a collaboration between Dolk and Pøbel where the goal was to move street art into no man's land. They painted several stencils on 20 abandoned houses in Lofoten, northern Norway. The project got wide international attention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17557746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17557746", "title": "Fascinus", "text": "Fascinus\n\nIn ancient Roman religion and magic, the fascinus or fascinum was the embodiment of the divine phallus. The word can refer to the deity himself (Fascinus), to phallus effigies and amulets, and to the spells used to invoke his divine protection. Pliny calls it a \"medicus invidiae\", a \"doctor\" or remedy for envy (\"invidia\", a \"looking upon\") or the evil eye.\n\nThe English word \"fascinate\" ultimately derives from Latin \"fascinum\" and the related verb \"fascinare\", \"to use the power of the \"fascinus\"\", that is, \"to practice magic\" and hence \"to enchant, bewitch\" Catullus uses the verb at the end of \"Carmen 7\", a hendecasyllabic poem addressing his lover Lesbia; he expresses his infinite desire for kisses that cannot be counted by voyeurs nor \"fascinated\" (put under a spell) by a malicious tongue; such bliss, as also in \"Carmen\" 5, potentially attracts \"invidia\".\n\nFescennine Verses, the satiric and often lewd songs or chants performed on various social occasions, may have been so-named from the \"fascinum\"; ancient sources propose this etymology along with an alternative origin from Fescennia, a small town in Etruria.\n\nThe Vestal Virgins tended the cult of the \"fascinus populi Romani\", the sacred image of the phallus that was one of the tokens of the safety of the state \"(sacra Romana)\". It was thus associated with the Palladium. Roman myths, such as the begetting of Servius Tullius, suggest that this phallus was an embodiment of a masculine generative power located within the hearth, regarded as sacred. When a general celebrated a triumph, the Vestals hung an effigy of the \"fascinus\" on the underside of his chariot to protect him from \"invidia\".\n\nAugustine, whose primary source on Roman religion was the lost theological works of Marcus Terentius Varro, notes that a phallic image was carried in procession annually at the festival of Father Liber, the Roman god identified with Dionysus or Bacchus, for the purpose of protecting the fields from \"fascinatio\", magic compulsion:\n\nAs a divinized phallus, Fascinus shared attributes with Mutunus Tutunus, whose shrine was supposed to date from the founding of the city, and the imported Greek god Priapus.\n\nPhallic charms, often winged, were ubiquitous in Roman culture, appearing as objects of jewellery such as pendants and finger rings, relief carvings, lamps, and wind chimes (\"tintinnabula\"). \"Fascinus\" was thought particularly to ward off evil from children, mainly boys, and from conquering generals. The protective function of the phallus is usually related to the virile and regenerative powers of an erected phallus, though in most cases the emotion, shame, or laughter created by obscenity is the power that diverts the evil eye.\n\nThere are very few Roman images of people wearing a phallic charm. Varro notes the custom of hanging a phallic charm on a baby's neck, and examples have been found of phallus-bearing rings too small to be worn except by children. A 2017 experimental archaeology project suggested that some types of phallic pendant were designed to remain pointing outwards, in the direction of travel of the wearer, in order to face towards any potential danger or bad luck and nullify it before it could affect the wearer. Other symbols may have been interchangeable with the phallus, such as the club of Hercules.\n\nThe victory of the phallus over the power of the evil eye may be represented by the phallus ejaculating towards a disembodied eye. This motif is shown in several examples of Roman art. For example, the motif is known from multiple relief sculptures from Leptis Magna in present-day Libya, as well as several instances on Hadrian's Wall. A 1st-century BC terracotta figurine shows \"two little phallus-men sawing an eyeball in half.\"\n\nThe \"fist and phallus\" amulet was prevalent amongst soldiers. These are phallic pendants with a representation of a (usually) clenched fist at the bottom of the shaft, facing away from the glans. Several examples show the fist making the \"manus fica\" or \"fig sign\", a symbol of good luck. The largest known collection comes from Camulodunum. Some examples of the fist-and-phallus amulets incorporate vulvate imagery as well as an extra apotropaic device.\n\n"}
{"id": "57853787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57853787", "title": "Filthy Rich and Homeless", "text": "Filthy Rich and Homeless\n\nFilthy Rich and Homeless is a Logie Award-winning Australian TV documentary series produced by Blackfella Films and broadcast in 2017 (Season 1) and 2018 (Season 2) on SBS. \n\nThe series follows five wealthy Australians who swap their life of privilege for homelessness.\n\nThe five participants were self-made millionaire Tim Guest; Kayla Fenech, daughter of boxing champion Jeff Fenech; rags to riches beauty entrepreneur Jellaine Dee; third generation pub baron Stu Laundy; and model and Sydney socialite Christian Wilkins, son of television presenter Richard Wilkins. \n\nThe five participants were socialite Skye Leckie, wife of media company executive director David Leckie; actor-broadcaster Cameron Daddo; author Benjamin Law; politician and activist Alex Greenwich; and Instagram star Alli Simpson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119702", "title": "Finnish Canadians", "text": "Finnish Canadians\n\nFinnish Canadians are Canadian citizens of Finnish ancestry or Finns who emigrated to and reside in Canada. According to the 2001 census number over 131,040 Canadians claim Finnish ancestry. Finns started coming to Canada in the early 1880s, and in much larger numbers in the early 20th century and well into the mid-20th century. Finnish immigration to Canada was often a direct result of economic depressions and wars, or in the aftermath of major conflicts like the Finnish Civil War. Canada was often chosen as a final destination because of the similarity in climate and natural conditions, while employment in logging or homesteading attracted landless farmers in the early 20th century. Migratory movements of Finns between Canada and the United States was very common as well.\n\nIn the early 20th century, newly arrived Finnish immigrants to Canada quickly became involved in political organizations, churches, athletic clubs and other forms of associational life. Halls and co-operatives were often erected in communities with sizable Finnish populations. \"Finnish Canadians\" pioneered efforts to establish co-operatives in several Canadian cities. Canada's largest co-operative, the Consumers' Co-operative Society, was started by Finns.\n\nThe 2011 Census recorded 136,215 Canadians who claimed Finnish ancestry, an increase compared to the 2006 Census.\n\nThe earliest Finnish immigrants to Canada came from the US, possibly as early as 1820's for the construction of the Welland Canal. The Canadian Pacific Railway recruited immigrants directly from Finland in the late 1800s.\n\nCanadians of Finnish ancestry often formed a large percentage of left-wing organizations during the early 1900s, as Finland had, by 1906 as a part of the Russian empire, already become one of the first nations to adopt universal suffrage. Up until the early 1940s, the so-called \"Red Finns,\" who held deep socialist convictions, far outnumbered \"White Finns,\" the more religious and conservative Finns. This was partially due to the number of political refugees escaping persecution after the Finnish Civil War, but also attributable to the response of several, formerly apolitical Finns from rural Ostrobothnia, to harsh economic conditions. Finnish Canadians with Marxist political views aligned themselves with the Social Democratic Party of Canada and later, with the Communist Party of Canada, centered around the newspaper \"Vapaus\" (Freedom). Many Finns, however, were distrustful of politicians as a result of the perceived failure and reformism of the Finnish Social Democratic Party during the general strike in November 1917 and the reformist policy the party adopted after the Civil War. Finns arriving in Canada who had already faced severe class conflict and repression would line-up with the radical union, the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) emphasizing anti-authoritarianism and anti-statism. The IWW would hold considerable influence in the mines and logging camps of Northern Ontario.\n\nA decline in the Finnish-Canadian population began with the exodus 2000-3000 skilled workers and loggers to Soviet Karelia in the 1920s and 30s, and the large number of Finnish-Canadian volunteers in the Spanish Civil War. Finnish-Canadians, along with Ukrainians, formed the largest section of volunteers in the Canadian contingent of the International Brigades, Mackenzie-Papineau Battalion. Finns formed the Mackenzie-Papineau Battalions \"Ilkka\" machine-gun company. The period after the 1930s marks a decline in Finnish co-operative activity in Canada.\n\nCanada started seeing a drastic increase in immigration from Finland during the late 1920s and forward, as the United States Immigration Act of 1924 did not consider Finland to be among the Western European favourable countries to have immigration from, resulting in a strong restriction of 500 Finnish immigrants per year to the US. Despite conservative \"White\" Finnish support for Nazi Germany during World War II, Canadian immigration policy in the 1940s favoured admitting \"White Finns\" to Canada. This, combined with a fiercely anti-socialist view in the post-World War II era, led to a shift in the political balance of the Finnish-Canadian community.\n\nCentral Canada (mainly Ontario) has generally been the largest destination for Finns, followed by British Columbia, recording 72,990 (ON) and 29,875 (BC) Finns in 2006. Several small rural Finnish communities were established in Alberta and Saskatchewan.\n\nToday, the communities of Thunder Bay, Sudbury and New Finland form the main centres of Finnish-Canadian activity. Thunder Bay boasts the largest Finnish population outside of Fennoscandia, and the only Finnish cultural centre in Canada, housed in the Finnish Labour Temple along with the Hoito Restaurant. The Finnish-Canadian weeklies \"Canadan Sanomat\" and \"Vapaa Sana\" publish out of Thunder Bay and Toronto respectively. Another significant Finnish-Canadian newspaper, \"Vapaus\", was published in Sudbury from 1917 to 1974. Other prominent communities are Sault Ste. Marie, Kirkland Lake and Timmins, in Ontario.\n\nFinnish Canadian population by province and territory in Canada in 2011:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9677389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9677389", "title": "Food desert", "text": "Food desert\n\nA food desert is an area, especially one with low-income residents, that has limited access to affordable and nutritious food. In contrast, an area with supermarkets or vegetable shops is a food oasis. The designation considers the type and quality of food available to the population, in addition to the number, nature, and size of food stores that are accessible. Food deserts are characterized by a lack of supermarkets which decreases residents' access to fruits, vegetables and other whole foods. \n\nIn 2010, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) reported that 23.5 million Americans live in a food desert, meaning that they live more than one mile from a supermarket in urban or suburban areas, and more than 10 miles from a supermarket in rural areas. Food deserts lack whole food providers who supply fresh protein sources (such as poultry, fish and meats) along with whole food such as fresh fruits and vegetables, and instead provide processed and sugar- and fat-laden foods in convenience stores. Processed, sugar- and fat-laden foods are known contributors to the United States' obesity epidemic. Convenience store prices are less affordable to regular consumers around the area.\n\nBy 1973, \"desert\" was ascribed to suburban areas lacking amenities important for community development. Cummins and Macintyre report that a resident of public housing in western Scotland supposedly coined the more specific phrase \"food desert\" in the early 1990s. The phrase was first officially used in a 1995 document from a policy working group on the Low Income Project Team of the UK's Nutrition Task Force.\n\nInitial research was narrowed to the impact of retail migration from the urban center. More recent studies explored the impact of food deserts in other geographic areas (e.g., rural and frontier) and among specific populations, like minorities and the elderly. They address the relationships between the quality (access and availability) of retail food environments, the price of food, and obesity. The findings support that environmental factors contribute to people's eating behaviors. Research conducted with variations in methods draws a more complete perspective of \"multilevel influences of the retail food environment on eating behaviors (and risk of obesity).\"\n\nResearchers employ a variety of methods to assess food deserts including: directories and census data, focus groups, food store assessments, food use inventories, geographic information system (GIS) technology, interviews, questionnaires and surveys measuring consumers' food access perceptions. Differences in the definition of a food desert vary according to the:\n\nThe multitude of definitions which vary by country have fueled controversy over the existence of food deserts.\n\nIt should also be noted that because it is too costly to survey the types of foods and prices offered in every store, researchers use the availability of supermarkets and large grocery stores (including discount and supercenter stores) as a proxy for the availability of affordable, nutritious food.\n\nDistance-based measurements are used to measure food accessibility and identify food deserts.\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Economic Research Service measures distance by dividing the country into multiple 0.5 km square grids. The distance from the geographic center of each grid to the nearest grocery store gauges food accessibility for the people living in that grid. Health Canada divides areas into buffer zones with people's homes, schools or workplaces as the center. The Euclidean distance is the shortest distance between the two points of interest, which is measured for gaining food access data.\n\nDifferent factors are excluded or included that affect the scale of distance. The USDA maintains an online interactive mapping tool for the U.S., the \"Food Access Research Atlas,\" which applies four different measurement standards to identify areas of low food access based on distance from the nearest supermarket.\n\nThe first standard uses the original USDA food desert mapping tool \"Food Desert Locator\" and defines food deserts as having at least 33% or 500 people of a census tract's population in an urban area living 1 mile (10 miles for rural area) from a large grocery store or supermarket.\n\nThe second and third standards adjust the scale of distance and factor income to define a food desert. In the U.S., a food desert consists of a low income census tract residing at least 0.5 miles in urban areas (10 miles in rural areas) or 1 mile away in urban areas (20 miles in rural areas) from the large grocery store. The availability of other fresh food sources like community gardens and food banks are not included in mapping and can change the number of communities that should be classified as food deserts. A 2014 geographical survey found that the average distance from a grocery store was 1.76 kilometers (1.09 miles) in Edmonton, but only 1.44 kilometers (0.89 miles) when farmers' markets and community gardens were included, making it 0.11 miles under the latter definition for an urban food desert.\n\nThe fourth standard takes vehicular mobility into account. In the U.S., a food desert exists if 100 households or more with no vehicle access live at least 0.5 miles from the nearest large grocery store. For populations with vehicle access, the standard changes to 500 households or more living at least 20 miles away. Travel duration and mode may be other important factors. As of 2011, public transport is not included in mapping tools.\n\nA food retailer is typically considered to be a healthful food provider if it sells a variety of fresh food, including fruits and vegetables. Types of fresh food retailers include:\nFood retailers like fast food restaurants and convenience stores are not typically in this category as they usually offer a limited variety of foods that make up a healthy diet. Frequently too, the produce sold at convenience stores is poor quality. A \"healthy\" bodega as defined by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene stocks seven or more varieties of fresh fruits and vegetables and low-fat milk.\n\nDifferent countries have different dietary models and views on nutrition. These distinct national nutrition guides add to the controversy surrounding the definition of food deserts. Since a food desert is defined as an area with limited access to nutritious foods, a universal identification of them cannot be created without a global consensus on nutrition.\n\nOther criteria include affordability and income level. According to the USDA, researchers should \"consider ... [the] prices of foods faced by individuals and areas\" and how \"prices affect the shopping and consumption behaviors of consumers.\" One study maintains that estimates of how many people live in food deserts must include the cost of food in supermarkets that can be reached in relation to their income.\n\nFor instance, in 2013, Whole Foods opened a store in Detroit, where one third of the population lives below the poverty line. Whole Foods is known for their pricey healthy and organic foods. In order to attract the low income residents, the Detroit store offered lower prices compared to other Whole Foods stores. If Whole Foods had not lowered the prices, residents would not be willing to shop there and Detroit would still be considered a food desert.\n\nThe main difference between a rural and an urban food desert is the distance of residents from the nearest supermarket. Twenty percent of rural areas in the U.S. are classified as food deserts. Within these counties, approximately 2.4 million individuals have low access to a large supermarket. This difference in distance translates into pronounced economic and transportation differences between the rural and urban areas.\n\nA 2009 study of rural food deserts found key differences in overall health, access to food, and social environment of rural residents compared to urban dwellers. Rural residents report overall poorer health and more physical limitations, with 12% rating their health as fair or poor compared to 9% of urban residents. They believed their current health conditions were shaped by their eating behaviors when the future chronic disease risk was affected by the history of dietary intake. Moreover, the 57 recruited rural residents from Minnesota and Iowa in one study perceived that food quality and variety in their area were poor at times. The researchers reached the conclusion that, for a community of people, while food choice which bound by family and household socioeconomic status remained as a personal challenge, social and physical environments played a significant role in stressing and shaping their dietary behaviors.\n\nFood deserts occur in poor urban areas when there is limited or no access to healthful, affordable food options. Low income families tend to be negatively affected by the lack of access to healthful foods because they lack the means to travel to better food options. People moving from towns to more urbanized areas has brought about the challenge of providing food, goods, and other services. While urban areas have been progressing in terms of certain opportunities, the poor still struggle. As people move to these urban areas they have been forced to adopt new methods for cooking and acquiring food. Adults in urban areas tend to be obese, but they have malnourished and underweight children. For many there is a lack of nutritious food due to their inability to access a traditional super market. When supermarkets are inaccessible it is proven that vegetable and fruit intake is lower. When prices are high and there is a lack of financial assistance many living in places with limited grocery stores find themselves in a situation where they are unable to access the food they need. Food deserts affect a high percentage of minorities due to them being a part of a lower socioeconomic class. The issue with urban food deserts is not always the lack of food in the area, but the lack of nutritional knowledge and the food inequality seen in urban areas.\n\nAccording to research conducted by Tulane University in 2009 2.3 million Americans lived more than one mile away from a super market, and did not own a car. For those that live in these urban food deserts often times they do not have access to culturally appropriate foods. Many people also do not get foods that meet their health restrictions such as allergies or food intolerance. The time and cost it takes for people to grocery shop makes fast food more desirable. There is also a price variance when it comes to small grocery stores that affect people in lower income areas from purchasing healthier food options. Often times urban food deserts are applied to North America and Europe however in recent years it has become an idea that has been applied to Africa. It has taken time for researchers to understand Africa's urban food deserts because the conventional understanding of the term must be reevaluated to fit Africa's unconventional supermarkets. There are three categories for food deserts: ability-related, assets-related, and attitude-related. Ability-related food deserts are “anything that physically prevents access to food which a consumer otherwise has the financial resources to purchase and the mental desire to buy”. An asset-related food desert involves the absence of financial assets, thus preventing consumption of desirable food that is otherwise available. Lastly there are attitude-related food deserts any state of mind that prevents the consumer from accessing foods they can otherwise physically bring into their home and have the necessary assets to procure. In Cape Town, South Africa supermarkets take up a large portion of retail space. While supermarkets are expanding in poor neighborhoods in Cape Town there food insecurity is growing at an alarming rate. This is one of the biggest road blocks when understanding food deserts. Based on the European or American understanding of food deserts the fact that there is access to supermarkets by definition would mean that Cape Town does not suffer from food deserts. Not only does Africa suffer from food deserts, but there is a direct link between climate change and the rapid growth of food deserts . While supermarkets are expanding to areas that once did not have supermarkets there is still a disparity when it comes to physical access. In the city of Cape Town asset-related urban food deserts are the main reason for the food insecurity. People in this area unable to afford the food that they would prefer to eat. \n\nClimate change plays an important role in urban food deserts because it directly effects accessibility. The main way that climate change effects food security and food deserts is that it reduces the production of food. With limited availability of a product the prices rise making it unavailable to those that cannot the rising prices. In Cape Town specifically supermarkets rely directly on fresh produce from the nearby farm area. Not only does climate change effect the production of food, but it can also damage capital assets that affect accessibility and utilization . Specifically in Cape Town the access to food deserts does not change the severity of food deserts. With limited diversity in their diets those that live in Cape Town are highly dependent on foods of low nutritional value and high calorific value. Utilizing the European or American definition of food deserts does not take into account the dynamic market of other cultures and countries. \n\nThe primary criterion for a food desert is its proximity to a healthy food market. When such a market is in reach for its residents, a food desert ceases to exist. But this does not mean that residents will now eat healthy. A longitudinal study of food deserts in \"JAMA Internal Medicine\" shows that supermarket availability is generally unrelated to fruit and vegetable recommendations and over diet quality. The availability of unhealthy foods at supermarkets may affect this relation because they tempt customers to overspend and indulge in luxury, pre-cooked foods. Supermarkets may have such an adverse effect because they put independently owned grocery stores out of business. Independently owned grocery stores have their benefits because they are more responsive to customer needs and provide food that adequately serves community members. Therefore, simply providing healthier food access, according to Janne Boone-Heinonen et al., cannot completely eliminate food deserts, this access must be paired with education. In a 2018 article in \"Guernica\", Karen Washington states these factors beyond physical access suggest the community should reexamine the word \"food desert\" itself. She believes \"food apartheid\" more accurately captures the circumstances surrounding access to affordable nutritious foods. Washington says, \"When we say \"food apartheid\" the real conversation can begin.\" \n\nAccess to food options is not the only barrier to healthier diets and improved health outcomes. Wrigley et al. collected data before and after a food desert intervention to explore factors affecting supermarket choice and perceptions regarding healthy diet in Leeds, United Kingdom. Pre-tests were administered prior to a new store opening and post-tests were delivered 2 years after the new store had opened. The results showed that nearly half of the food desert residents began shopping at the newly built store, however, only modest improvements in diet were recorded.\n\nA similar pilot study conducted by Cummins et al. focused on a community funded by the Pennsylvania Fresh Food Financing Initiative. They conducted follow up after a grocery store was built in a food desert to assess the impact. They found that \"simply building new food retail stores may not be sufficient to promote behavior change related to diet.\" Studies like these showed that living close to a store stocked with fruits and vegetables does not make an impact on food choices.\n\nA separate survey also found that supermarket and grocery store availability did not generally correlate with diet quality and fresh food intake. Pearson et al. further confirmed that physical access is not the sole determinant of fruit and vegetable consumption. Impediments common with places that are not food deserts remain.\n\nPeople who have nonstandard work hours that include rotating or evening shifts may have difficulty shopping at stores that close earlier and instead shop at fast food or convenience stores that are generally open later. Under welfare-to-work reforms enacted in 1996, a female adult recipient must log 20 hours a week of \"work activity\" to receive SNAP benefits. If they live in a food desert and have family responsibilities, working as well may limit time to travel to obtain nutritious foods as well as prepare healthful meals and exercise.\n\nAdditional factors may include how different stores welcome different groups of people and nearness to liquor stores. Residents in a 2010 Chicago survey complained that in-store issues like poor upkeep and customer service were also impediments. Safety can also be an issue for those in high crime areas, especially if they have to walk carrying food and maybe also with a child or children.\n\nA possible factor affecting obesity and other \"diet-related diseases\" is the proximity of fast food restaurants and convenience stores compared to \"full-access\" grocery stores. Proximity to fast food restaurants correlates with a higher BMI, while proximity to a grocery store correlates with a lower BMI, according to one study.\n\nA 2011 review used fifteen years of data from the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) study to examine the fast-food consumption of more than 5,000 young American adults aged 18–30 years in different geographic environments. The study found that fast food consumption was directly related to the proximity of fast food restaurants among low-income participants. \nThe research team concluded that \"alternative policy options such as targeting specific foods or shifting food costs (subsidization or taxation)\" may be complementary and necessary to promote healthy eating habits while increasing the access to large food stores in specific regions and limit the availability of fast food restaurants and small food stores. Some cities already restrict the location of fast food and other food retailers that do not provide healthy food.\n\nFast food restaurants are disproportionately placed in low-income and minority neighborhoods and are often the closest and cheapest food options. \"People living in the poorest SES areas have 2.5 times the exposure to fast-food restaurants as those living in the wealthiest areas\". Multiple studies were also done in the US regarding racial/ethnic groups and the exposure to fast food restaurants. One study in South Los Angeles, where there is a higher percentage of African Americans, found that there was less access to healthier stores and more access to fast food compared to West Los Angeles, which has a lower African American population. In another study in New Orleans, it was found that communities that were predominantly African American had 2.4 fast food restaurants per square mile while predominantly white neighborhoods had 1.5 fast food restaurants per square mile. Researchers found that fast food companies purposely target minority neighborhoods when conducting market research to open new fast food restaurants. Existing segregation makes it easier for fast food companies to identify these target neighborhoods. This practice increases the concentration of fast food restaurants in minority neighborhoods.\n\nThe likelihood of being food insecure for Latinos is 22.4%, for African Americans 26.1% and for whites, 10.5%. People who are food insecure often will find themselves having to cut back more at the end of the month when their money or food stamps run out. Month to month, there are other special occasions that may warrant higher spending on food such as birthdays, holidays, or other special treats. Because people who are food insecure are still fundamentally involved in society, so they are faced with the other stressors of life as well as the additional frustration or guilt that comes with not being able to feed themselves or their family.\n\nOther studies have documented a sense of loyalty towards the owners of neighborhood convenience stores as an explanation as to why residents may not change their shopping behaviors.\n\nSteven Cummins also proposed that food availability is not the problem: it is eating habits. Pearson et al. urge food policy to focus on the social and cultural barriers to healthy eating. For instance, New York City's public-private Healthy Bodegas Initiative has aimed to encourage bodegas to carry milk and fresh produce and local residents to purchase and consume them.\n\nRegardless of daily calorie intake, if a person does not eat foods that are rich in vitamins and nutrients they are susceptible to malnourishment related diseases. These diseases include scurvy which results from low vitamin C levels, rickets from low vitamin D levels, and pellagra from insufficient nicotinic acid. Nutrient imbalances can affect a person, especially a developing child in a multitude of ways. Studies show that malnutrition in children can cause problems with academic performance, attention span, and motivation.\n\nSince 2006, the United States has seen an increase in cases of obesity. There are not accessible grocery stores in many food deserts, so people do not have the option of eating fresh produce. Instead they have access to cheap, fast, and easy food which typically contains excess fats, sugars, and carbohydrates. Examples of such foods include chips, candy, and soda. Several diseases can result from consuming large amounts of these unhealthy food options, including cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes, osteoporosis and even cancer.\n\nFresh produce provides the body with nutrients that help it function effectively. Vegetables are good sources of fiber, potassium, folate, iron, manganese, choline, and vitamins A, C, K, E, B6 and more. Fruits are good sources of fiber, potassium, and vitamin C. The USDA recommends eating whole fruit instead of fruit juice because juice has less fiber and added sugars. Dairy products contain nutrients such as calcium, phosphorus, riboflavin, protein, and vitamins A, D and B12. Protein, a good source of vitamin B and lasting energy, can be found in both plant and animal products. The USDA also suggests to limit percentage of daily calories for sugars (<10%), saturated fats (<10%) and sodium (<2300 mg). Although small amounts of sugars, fats, and sodium is necessary for the body, they can lead to various diseases when consumed in large amounts.\n\nEven knowing the importance of nutrition, an additional barrier people may face is whether they even have the choice. Corner stores often only carry processed food, eliminating the choice of eating fresh. Processed food encompasses any type of food that has been modified from its original state whether from washing, cooking, or adding preservative or other additives. Because it is such a general category, processed foods can be broken down into four more specific groups: \"unprocessed or minimally processed foods, processed culinary ingredients, processed foods (PFs), and ultra-processed foods and drinks (UPFDs).\"\n\nThe original motivation for processing foods was to preserve them so there would be less food waste and there would be enough food to feed the population. By canning or dying fruits and vegetables to try and preserve them, some of the nutrients are lost and often times sugar is added, making the produce less healthy than when it was fresh. Similarly, with meats that are dried, there is salt added to help preserve it but results in the consumer having a higher sodium intake. The ultra-processed foods were not made to be nutrient rich, but rather to satisfy cravings with high amounts of salts or sugars, so they result in people eating more than they should of food that has no nutritional value. Processed foods may also be made rich with nutrients that many people are lacking in their diets, making up for the lack of fresh food. Some nutritionists may recommend eliminating processed foods from diets, while others see it as a way to reduce food scarcity and malnutrition. In 1990 the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act required nutrition labels on food, making it so people could see what and how much of something they were consuming. With that labeling what some companies did was list things that weren't added on the front, but rarely did they add information about nutrients they added. There are scientists and nutritionists looking into ways to create affordable, processed food high in essential nutrients and vitamins that also taste good so the consumer is inclined to buy them.\n\nMany areas that are food deserts have disproportionately high numbers of liquor stores. For example, East Oakland has 4 supermarkets and 40 liquor stores in their community. These communities are also often predominantly populated by ethnic minorities. Both Latinos and African Americans are predisposed to getting a disease from alcohol consumption. Some alcohol-related illnesses include stroke, hypertension, diabetes, colon and GI cancer, and obesity. There are also studies that show that consuming alcohol in moderation can reduce one's chance of getting cardiovascular disease and even extend one's mental stability into old age.\n\nSelf care is an essential component in management of chronic conditions and for those who are healthy. Self care is greatly influenced by food choices and dietary intake. Limited access to nutritious foods in food deserts can greatly impact one's ability to engage in self care. Access, affordability, and health literacy are all social determinants of health, which are accentuated by living in a food desert. There are two main health implications for those living in food deserts: overnutrition or undernutrition. The community may be undernourished, due to inability to access food stores. The community may be overnourished due to a lack of affordable supermarkets with whole foods and a higher concentration of convenience stores and fast-food restaurants that offer pre-packaged foods often high in sugar, fat, and salt. Food-insecurity remains a problem for many low-income families, but the greatest challenge to living in a food desert is poor diet quality. Living in a food desert contributes to a higher prevalence of chronic diseases associated with being overweight. Persons living in a food desert often face barriers to self-care, particularly in accessing resources needed to change their dietary habits.\n\nPeople tend to make food choices based on what is available in their neighborhood. In food deserts there is often a high density of fast-food restaurants and corner stores that offer prepared foods.\n\nIn rural areas food security is a major issue. Food security can imply either a complete lack of food, which contributes to undernourishment, or a lack of nutritious food, which contributes to over-nourishment.\n\nAccording to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), community food security \"concerns the underlying social, economic, and institutional factors within a community that affect the quantity and quality of available food and its affordability or price relative to the sufficiency of financial resources available to acquire it.\" Rural areas tend have higher food insecurity than urban areas. This insecurity occurs because food choices in rural areas are often restricted because transportation is needed to access a major supermarket or a food supply that offers a wide, healthy variety versus smaller convenience stores that do not offer as much produce.\n\nIt is critical to look at car ownership in relation to the distance and number of stores in the area. Distance from shops influences the quality of food eaten. A car or public transportation is often needed to access a grocery store. When neither a car or nor public transportation is available, diets are rarely healthy. This is because fast food and convenience stores are easier to access and do not cost much money or time. Further, those who walk to food shops typically have poorer diets, which has been attributed to having to carry shopping bags home.\n\nLong-term adherence to a healthful, balanced diet is essential to promote the well-being of individuals and society. Many approaches to helping people eat a healthy, balanced diet are ineffective because of \"adherence problems\" with behavior changes. There is no universal definition of dietary adherence, but we know that dietary adherence is influenced by habits that develop over a lifetime.\n\nIt is especially difficult to \"adhere\" to a prescribed diet and lifestyle (ex. low salt diet, low fat diet, low carbohydrate diet, low sugar diet) when living in a food desert without enough access to items needed. When high sugar, high fat, and high salt items are the only foods available to people living in a food desert, dietary adherence requires (a) shift in lifestyle/ eating habits and (b) access to fresh, healthy, affordable foods.\n\nDecision-making is an important component of self-care that is affected by food deserts. People employ both rational and naturalistic decision-making processes on a routine basis. Naturalistic decisions occur in situations where time is limited, stakes are high, needed information is missing, the situation is ambiguous and the decision-maker is uncertain. Rational decisions are more likely when people have time to weigh options and consider the consequences.\n\nThe way individuals living in a food desert make decisions about healthy eating is influenced by a variety of factors. Communities with higher than state average poverty statistics often report low access to affordable food, thus limiting their ability to maintain a healthy diet. For these families living in poverty, many people work multiple jobs with rotating or evening shifts that make it difficult to find time to shop for food. Time constraints affect decision-making and people often choose to go to a closer convenience store rather than travel farther for fresh food. Families in urban food deserts may lack access to a car, which adds to the time needed to shop for groceries. Additionally, convenience stores and corner stores are typically open later hours than a traditional grocery store, making them more accessible.\n\nAnother factor that impacts those living in a food desert is safety. High rates of crime are a barrier for those living in food deserts. If people feel unsafe traveling farther to a grocery store, they are more likely to decide to purchase less healthy options at a closer location. In this way, people prioritize their safety over fresh, healthy foods.\n\nProximity to fast-food restaurants also influences decisions made when choosing meals. Proximity to fast food restaurants is related to having a higher BMI, while proximity to a grocery store is associated with a lower BMI. One study found that people living in the poorest areas of the country have more than twice the exposure to fast-food restaurants compared to people living in wealthy areas. Another study used 15 years of data from the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) study to examine the fast-food consumption of more than 5,000 young American adults aged 18–30 years in different geographic areas of the US. Proximity to fast food or a supermarket/grocery store was used to predict the type of food consumed. In low-income study participants, the type of food consumed was directly related to the proximity of fast food restaurants. These results suggest that low-income persons living in a food desert make decisions to consume fast food based on proximity to fast food restaurants versus distances to a grocery store.\n\nWhile access poses a major barrier to the practice of self-care in food deserts, health literacy remains a common barrier to nutritional behavioral choices. Health literacy and food deserts can affect all sectors of the population, but it is known that they both unjustly affect underserved, low-income individuals. Health literacy is the ability to obtain, read, understand, and use health information in order to make appropriate health decisions and follow instructions for treatment. Health literacy affects the ability to perform self-care by influencing decision-making and relationships with health care professionals. Additionally, health literacy and self-efficacy can predict the likelihood of reading food labels, which predicts dietary choices. A study of young adults in a metropolitan area found that those with low health literacy used food labels significantly less than a high health literacy group, suggesting that low health literacy may negatively influence dietary quality. Overall, these data suggests that health literacy is a key factor in explaining differences in dietary habits, as healthy eating is associated with higher nutrition literacy skills.\n\nWhen considering health literacy and dietary self-care behavior, a study of persons with heart failure found that those with low health knowledge had poor self-care behaviors. This study reveals how health literacy influences one's ability to manage a health condition and make healthy choices. Gaining access to fresh and affordable food is essential to improving health and decreasing social disparities in those living in food deserts. Increasing health education and resources to improve health literacy are also vital in order for individuals to engage in healthy behaviors, adhere to dietary recommendations, and practice self-care.\n\nOne recent study showed that just 9% of the difference between high-income and low-income nutrition is due to food availability, while 91% is due to personal choices. Another study found that grocery stores are actually more closely spaced in poor neighborhoods; and that there was no relation between children's food consumption, weight, and the type of food available near their homes. Another study suggested that adding a grocery store near one's home was associated with an average BMI decrease of 0.115, very small compared to the excess BMI of an obese person.\n\nFood Deserts Contributing to Black Stereotypes\n\nThe black community and people of color in general are targeted by large food corporations for unhealthy food choices through different media platforms. Foods industries such as sprite and McDonalds that have no nutritional value often promote their products with celebrities of color or big names in general. Often times food establishments with more healthy habits like Whole Foods are promote by a more European face. Psychologically there is more of an influence to purchase things that people of similar ethnicity also purchase so this is a repeated cycle. Food deserts and non-diverse promotion has backed a myth which makes people of color and other ethnic groups see colored people as being heavier naturally or because of there diet for years as a people. Colored people in lower income homes and communities have come to believe that the food they are eating does not affect health but more so there genes play a more important part. Although it is true that characteristics are common among races, this shouldn't affect a certain category in that said race. For the past 20 years women of color have become more easily obese. This is a very big problem when on the topic of human rights because this is showing that the current society that allows food deserts does not see low income colored communities as full citizens. There is no representation of clean eating or a healthy lifestyle for lower income colored and when there is it is very few. This shows an image or a stereotype of colored low income communities that the world sees and so does the nation. This also plays into these communities fulfilling the image or stereotype that is seen by the public/society that they are currently living in. One from an outside perspective would find it hard to judge the situation because there is no experience so the people in communities with lack of healthy food are a lot of times seen as wanting the type of unhealthy food in their communities. This relates back to human rights on a global scale because every human being deserves to have access to nutritional foods that are reasonably priced for that person or community income.\n\nRecognition of food deserts as a major public health concern has prompted a number of initiatives to address the lack of resources available for those living in both urban and rural areas. On the larger scale, there have been national public policy initiatives.\n\nIn 2010, the US Department of Health and Human Services, the US Department of Agriculture, and the US Department of the Treasury announced their partnership in the development of the Healthy Food Financing Initiative (HFFI). With the goal of expanding access to healthy food options in both urban and rural communities across the country, HFFI has helped expand and develop grocery stores, corner stores, and farmers' markets, by providing financial and technical assistance to communities. The creation of these resources provides nutritious food options to those living in food deserts. The HFFI has awarded $195 million to community development organizations in 35 states. Between 2011 and 2015, HFFI created or supported 958 projects aimed at healthy food access. \n\nThe HFFI has also supported the development of statewide programs across the country, in California, Colorado, Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, and Pennsylvania. In Pennsylvania, the state program called the Fresh Food Financing Initiative (FFFI) provides grants and loans to healthy food retailers to create or renovate markets, including large supermarkets, small stores, and farmers' markets, in low income urban and rural areas across Pennsylvania. Because operating in underserved areas is more financially straining on retailers, the program provides subsidized financing incentives for retailers to open in areas where need is high. The Pennsylvania program's success influenced many other states to launch similar programs.\n\nLocal and community efforts have made strides in combatting lack of access to nutritious food in food deserts. Farmers' markets provide local residents with fresh fruits and vegetables. Usually in a public and central areas of a community, such as a park, farmers' markets are most effective when they are easily accessible. Farmers' markets tend to be more successful in urban than rural areas due to large geographic distances in rural areas that make the markets difficult to access. The expansion of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) to farmers' markets also helps make nutritious foods increasingly affordable. Each year, SNAP program participants spend around $70 billion in benefits; as of 2015, more than $19.4 billion were redeemed at farmers' markets. The Double Up Food Bucks program doubles what every Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) dollar spent at a farm stand is worth. This incentivizes locals to shop for fresh over processed foods. Community gardens can play a similar role in food deserts, generating fresh produce by having local residents share in the maintenance of food production. \n\nThe Food Trust, a nonprofit organization based in Pennsylvania, has 22 farmers markets in operation throughout Philadelphia. In an effort to increase accessibility for healthier food and fresh produce, Food Trust farmers markets accept SNAP benefits. Customers have reported improved diets with increase in vegetable intake as well as healthier snacking habits. Community gardens also address fresh food scarcity. The nonprofit group DC Urban Greens operates a community garden in Southeast Washington, D.C., an area labeled by the US Department of Agriculture as a food desert. The garden provides fresh produce to those in the city who do not have easily accessible grocery stores nearby. The organization also sets up farmers' markets in the city. In the food desert of North Las Vegas, a neighborhood with one of the highest levels of food insecurity, another community garden is addressing food scarcity. These community gardens can aid in education and access to new foods. Organizations such as the Detroit Black Community Food Security Network use community building gardens in order to promote community around healthy food.\n\nAn entrepreneurial solution to food insecurity in food deserts is food trucks. In major urban centers such as Boston, mobile food markets travel to low income areas with fresh produce. The trucks travel to assisted living communities, schools, workplaces, and health centers. The increased availability of online food retailers and delivery services, such as AmazonFresh and FreshDirect, can also help in food deserts by delivering food straight to residences. The ability for elderly people, disabled people, and those who live geographically far from supermarkets to use SNAP benefits online to order groceries is a major resource. For those who lack transportation options, rideshare services such as Uber and Lyft may be vital resources to increase access to nutritious foods in food deserts.\n\nIn central Pennsylvania, an innovative solution to food insecurity for persons with diabetes is the Fresh Food Pharmacy, which considers access to nutritious foods as vital as access to prescription medicine. Free groceries, all compliant with the American Diabetes Association guidelines, are provided to those in this program. This unique program to address food insecurity for those with chronic illnesses is a major resource for promoting self-care in food deserts.\n\nFood deserts are a result of lack of access to food and not enough money to afford the food that is available, which causes many people and especially children to not get enough nutrients their bodies require. Because there is a dominant concern of where the next meal will come from, people don't always care what they are putting in their bodies as long as it will keep them alive. The Grow Hartford Program was implemented in a school in Connecticut to have students address an issue in their community and they chose to focus on food justice. The youth involved worked on farms in the area to learn about the processes of food production and the importance and variety of vegetables. The program even led kids to start a community garden at their school. This program allowed the students to engage in hands on learning to educate them about agriculture, food scarcity and nutrition while helping bridge the gap of food access for some of their peers who could now bring home food from the surrounding farms or the school garden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "951538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=951538", "title": "Forth and Bargy dialect", "text": "Forth and Bargy dialect\n\nThe Forth and Bargy dialect, also known as Yola, is an extinct variety of English once spoken in the baronies of Forth and Bargy in County Wexford, Ireland. It is thought to have evolved from Middle English, which was brought to Ireland during the Norman invasion, beginning in 1169. As such, it was similar to the Fingallian dialect of the Fingal area. Both became extinct in the 19th century, when they were replaced by modern Hiberno-English. The name \"Yola\" means \"old\" in the dialect.\nThe dialect was spoken in County Wexford, particularly in the baronies of Forth and Bargy. This was the first area English-speakers came to in the Norman invasion of Ireland, supporting the theory that the dialect evolved from the Middle English introduced in that period. As such it is thought to have been similar to Fingallian, which was spoken in the Fingal region north of Dublin. Middle English, the mother tongue of the \"Old English\" community, was widespread throughout southeastern Ireland until the 14th century; as the Old English were increasingly assimilated into Irish culture, their original language was gradually displaced through Gaelicisation. After this point, the Forth and Bargy dialect and Fingallian were the only attested relicts of this original form of English.\n\nModern English was widely introduced by British colonists during and after the 17th century, forming the basis for the modern Hiberno-English of Ireland. The new varieties were notably distinct from the surviving relict dialects. As English continued to spread, both the Forth and Bargy dialect and the Fingal dialect died out in the 19th century.\n\nThe dialect of Forth and Bargy was the only dialect in Ireland included in Alexander John Ellis's work \"On Early English Pronunciation Volume V\", which was the earliest survey of dialects of English. The phonetics of the dialect were taken from a local reverend.\n\nAs in the Dutch language, in southwestern varieties of English and (to a lesser extent) in German, most voiceless fricatives in Forth and Bargy became voiced. The Middle English vowels are well-preserved, having only partially and sporadically undergone the changes associated with the Great Vowel Shift.\n\nOne striking characteristic of Forth and Bargy was the fact that stress shifted to the second syllable of words in many instances: ' \"morsel\", ' \"hatchet\", ' \"dinner\", ' \"reader\", \"\" \"wedding\", etc.\n\nForth and Bargy pronouns were similar to Middle English pronouns.\n\nThe definite article was at first \"a\" or \"ee\", which was later replaced by \"the\".\n\nForth and Bargy verbs had some conservative characteristics. The second and third person plural endings were sometimes -eth as in Chaucerian English. The past participle retained the Middle English \"y\" prefix as \"ee\".\n\nSome nouns retained the \"-en\" plural of ME \"children\", such as \"been\" 'bees' and \"tren\" 'trees'.\n\nThe glossary compiled by Jacob Poole provides most of what is known about Forth and Bargy vocabulary. Poole was a farmer and member of the Religious Society of Friends from Growtown in the Parish of Taghmon on the border between the baronies of Bargy and Shelmalier. He collected words and phrases from his tenants and farm labourers between 1800 and his death in 1827.\n\nAlthough most of its vocabulary is Anglo-Saxon in origin, Forth and Bargy contains many borrowings from Irish and French.\n\nDiarmaid Ó Muirithe travelled to South Wexford in 1978 to study the English spoken there. His informants ranged in age between 40 and 90. Among the long list of words still known or in use at that time are the following:\nAmain is a Norman word which means 'of easy use'\n\nThe following is a Forth and Bargy song, with a rough translation into English.\nYola Zong\nFade teil thee zo lournagh, co Joane, zo knaggee?\nTh' weithest all curcagh, wafur, an cornee.\nLidge w'ouse an a milagh, tis gaay an louthee:\nHuck nigher; y'art scuddeen; fartoo zo hachee?\n\nWell, gosp, c'hull be zeid; mot thee fartoo, an fade;\nHa deight ouse var gabble, tell ee zin go t'glade.\nCh'am a stouk, an a donel; wou'll leigh out ee dey.\nTh' valler w'speen here, th' lass ee chourch-hey.\n\nYerstey w'had a baree, gist ing oor hoane,\nAar gentrize ware bibbern, aamzil cou no stoane.\nYith Muzleare had ba hole, t'was mee Tommeen,\nAt by mizluck was ee-pit t'drive in.\n\nJoud an moud vrem earchee ete was ee Lough.\nZitch vaperreen, an shimmereen, fan ee-daf ee aar scoth!\nZitch blakeen, an blayeen, fan ee ball was ee-drowe!\nChote well aar aim was t'yie ouz n'eer a blowe.\n\nMot w'all aar boust, hi soon was ee-teight\nAt aar errone was var ameing 'ar 'ngish ee-height.\nZitch vezzeen, tarvizzeen, 'tell than w'ne'er zey.\nNore zichel ne'er well, nowe, nore ne'er mey.\n\n(There are nine more verses).\n\nAn Old Song\nWhat ails you so melancholy, quoth John, so cross?\nYou seem all snappish, uneasy, and fretful.\nLie with us on the clover, 'tis fair and sheltered:\nCome nearer; you're rubbing your back; why so ill-tempered?\n\nWell, gossip, it shall be said; you ask what ails me, & for what;\nYou have put us in talk, till the sun goes to set.\nI am a fool, and a dunce; we'll idle out the day.\nThe more we spend here, the less in the churchyard.\n\nYesterday we had a goal, just in our hand.\nTheir gentry were quaking, themselves could not stand.\nIf Good-for-little had been buried, it had been my Tommy,\nWho by misluck was placed to drive in.\n\nThrongs and crowds from each quarter were at the Lough;\nSuch vapouring, and shimmering, when stript in their shirts!\nSuch bawling, and shouting, when the ball was thrown!\nI saw their aim was to give us ne'er a stroke.\n\nBut with all their bravado, they soon were taught\nThat their errand was aiming to bring anguish upon them.\nSuch driving, struggling, 'till then we ne'er saw.\nNor such never will, no, nor never may.\nCongratulatory address in the dialect of Forth and Bargy, presented to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland the Earl of Mulgrave Constantine Henry Phipps on his visit to Wexford in 1836 taken from the \"Wexford Independent\" newspaper of 15 February 1860. The paper's editor Mr Edmund Hore writes:\n\"The most remarkable fact, in reality, in connexion with the address is this. In all probability it was the first time regal or vice-regal ears were required to listen to word of such a dialect; an it is even still more probable that a like event will never happen again; for if the use of this old tongue dies out as fast for the next five-and-twenty years as it has for the same bygone period, it will be utterly extinct and forgotten before the present century shall have closed.\n\n\"In order for a person not acquainted with the pronunciation of the dialect to form anything like an idea of it, it is first necessary to speak slowly, and remember that the letter a has invariably the same sound, like \"a\" in “father”. Double \"ee\" sounds like \"e\" in “me”, and most words of two syllables the long accent is placed on the last. To follow the English pronunciation completely deprives the dialect of its peculiarities.\"\n\nTo’s Excellencie Constantine Harrie Phipps, y’ Earle Mulgrave, Lord Lieutenant-General and General Governor of Ireland. Ye soumissive Spakeen o’ouz Dwelleres o’ Baronie Forthe, Weisforthe.\n\nMAI’T BE PLEASANT TO TH’ECCELLENCIE, – Wee, Vassalès o’ ‘His Most Gracious majesty’, Wilyame ee Vourthe, an, az wee verilie chote, na coshe and loyale dwellerès na Baronie Forthe, crave na dicke luckie acte t’uck neicher th’ Eccellencie, an na plaine garbe o’ oure yola talke, wi vengem o’ core t’gie ours zense o’ y gradès whilke be ee-dighte wi yer name; and whilke we canna zei, albeit o’ ‘Governere’, ‘Statesman’, an alike. Yn ercha and aul o’ while yt beeth wi gleezom o’ core th’ oure eyen dwytheth apan ye Vigere o’dicke Zouvereine, Wilyame ee Vourthe, unnere fose fatherlie zwae oure diaez be ee-spant, az avare ye trad dicke londe yer name waz ee-kent var \"ee vriene o’ livertie\", an \"He fo brake ye neckares o’ zlaves\". Mang ourzels – var wee dwytheth an Irelonde az ure genreale haim – y’ast, bie ractzom o’honde, ee-delt t’ouz ye laas ee-mate var ercha vassale, ne’er dwythen na dicke waie nar dicka. Wee dwyth ye ane fose dais be gien var ee guidevare o’ye londe ye zwae, – t’avance pace an livertie, an, wi’oute vlynch, ee garde o’ generale reights an poplare vartue. Ye pace – yea, we mai zei, ye vast pace whilke bee ee-stent owr ye londe zince th’ast ee-cam, proo’th, y’at wee alane needeth ye giftes o’generale rights, az be displayth bie ee factes o’thie goveremente. Ye state na dicke daie o’ye londe, na whilke be nar fash nar moile, albeit ‘constitutional agitation’, ye wake o’hopes ee-blighte, stampe na yer zwae be rare an lightzom. Yer name var zetch avancet avare ye, e’en a dicke var hye, arent whilke ye brine o’zea an dye craggès o’noghanes cazed nae balke. Na oure gladès ana whilke we dellt wi’ mattoke, an zing t’oure caulès wi plou, wee hert ee zough o’ye colure o’ pace na name o’ \"Mulgrave\". Wi Irishmen ower generale houpes be ee-boud – az Irishmen, an az dwellerès na cosh an loyale o’ Baronie Forthe, w’oul daie an ercha daie, our meines an oure gurles, praie var long an happie zins, shorne o’lournagh an ee-vilt wi benisons, an yersel and oure gude Zovereine, till ee zin o’oure daies be var aye be ee-go to’glade.\n\nStandard English Translation\n\nTo his Excellency, Constantine Henry Phipps, the Earl of Mulgrave, Lord Lieutenant-General, and General Governor of Ireland. The humble Address of the Inhabitants of the Barony of Forth, Wexford.\n\nMAY IT PLEASE YOUR EXCELLENCY – We, the subjects of his Most Gracious Majesty, William IV, and, as we verily believe, both faithful and loyal inhabitants of the Barony of Forth, beg leave at this favourable opportunity to approach your Excellency, and in the simple dress of our old dialect to pour forth from the strength (or fulness) of our hearts, our sense (or admiration) of the qualities which characterise your name, and for which we have no words but of ‘Governor’, ‘Statesman’, etc. In each and every condition it is with joy of heart that our eyes rest upon the representative of the Sovereign, William IV, under whose paternal rule our days are spent; for before your foot pressed the soil, your name was known to us as the \"friend of liberty\", and \"he who broke the fetters of the slave\". Unto ourselves – for we look on Ireland to be our common country – you have with impartial hand ministered the laws made for every subject, without regard to this party or that. We behold in you one whose days are devoted to the welfare of the land you govern, to promote peace and liberty – the uncompromising guardian of the common right and public virtue. The peace – yes, we may say the profound peace – which overspreads the land since your arrival, proves that we alone stood in need of the enjoyment of common privileges, as is demonstrated by the results of your government. The condition, this day, of the country, in which is neither tumult nor disorder, but that constitutional agitation, the consequence of disappointed hopes, confirms your rule to be rare and enlightened. Your fame for such came before you even into this retired spot, to which neither the waters of the sea below nor the mountains above caused any impediment. In our valleys, where we were digging with the spade, or as we whistled to our horses in the plough, we heard the distant sound of the wings of the dove of peace, in the word \"Mulgrave\". With Irishmen our common hopes are inseparably bound up – as Irishmen, and as inhabitants, faithful and loyal, of the Barony Forth, we will daily and every day, our wives and our children, implore long and happy days, free from melancholy and full of blessings, for yourself and our good Sovereign, until the sun of our lives be gone down the dark valley (of death).\n\nThis following is a Yola poem containing correct spelling and accents from an original document;\n\nEe mýdhe ov Rosslaarè\n'Cham góeen to tell thee óa taale at is drúe\nAar is ing Rosslaarè óa mýdhe geoudè an drúe\nShoo wearth ing her haté óa ribbonè at is blúe\nAn shoo goeth to ee faaythè earchee deie too\nIch meezil bee ing ee faaythè éarchee deie zoo\nAt ich zee dhicka mýdhe fhó is geoudè an drúe\nAn ich bee to ishólthè ee mýdhe, ee mýdhe at is drúe\nAn fhó coome to ee faaythè wi' ribbonè blue\n'Chull meezil góe to Rosslaaré earche deie too\nto zie thaar ee mydhe wee her ribbonè blúe\nAn 'chull her estólté vor her ribbonè blúe\nee mýdhe at is lyghtzóm, an well wytheen an drúe\nIch loove ee mýdhe wee ee ribbonè blúe\nAt coome to ee faaythè éarchee arichè too\nFan 'cham ing ee faaythè éarchee arichè too\nTo estóthè mýdhe wee ee ribbons blúe\n\nThe maiden of Rosslare\nI'm going to tell you a tale that is true\nthere is in Rosslare a maid good and true\nshe wears in her hat a ribbon that is blue\nand she goes to the faythe every day too\nI myself am in the faythe every day so\nthat I see this maid who is good and true\nand I go to meet the maid, the maid that is true\nand who comes to the faythe with ribbons blue\nI myself will go to Rosslare every day too\nto see there the maid with her ribbons blue\nAnd I will meet her for her ribbons blue\nthe maid that is enlightened and good looking and true\nI love the maid with the ribbons blue\nthat comes to the faythe every morning too\nwhen I'm in the faythe every morning too\nto meet the maid with the ribbons blue\n\"A guide for pronunciation\"\n\nch is pronounced as tch, example ich (pronounced itch) ([tʃ])\ngh - a guttural sound the same as the gh in lough ([ɣ])\n\neou (jow/yow)\noo (o as in boot) ([uː])\nee (e as in bee) ([iː])\naa (as in man but longer) ([aː])\n\na is in \"cat\" ([a]),\ná as in \"father\" ([ɑ])\ne as in \"let\" ([ɛ]),\né as in \"may\" ([e]),\ni as in \"bit\" ([ɪ]),\ní (ee) as in \"bee\" ([i]),\no as in \"spot\" ([ɔ]),\nó as in \"boat\" ([o]),\nu as in \"boot\", but shorter ([u]),\nú as in \"boot\" ([u]),\ny as a mix between the in spin and the ee in bee (possibly [ʏ]),\ný an oiy sound not in English ([ɑi]).\nspeak slowly to find correct pronunciation, e's after words are pronounced, but are only short (examples :ross-laar-e (rosslaaré), moidh-e (mýdhe))\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43882049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43882049", "title": "Gilded Generation (Strauss–Howe theory)", "text": "Gilded Generation (Strauss–Howe theory)\n\nThe Gilded Generation is the name given by sociologists to describe the generation of American people, born 1822–1842. It is an identified cohort within the Strauss–Howe generational theory.\n\nThey came of age amid rising national tempers, torrential immigration, rampant commercialism, conspicuous consumerism, declining college enrollment and economic disputes. This led to a distrust of Zealotry and institutional involvement, shifting focus to a life of materialism. As young adults, many pursued fortunes in frontier boom towns. \n\nMembers of this generation were also of age by the time the American Civil War began.\nSome of the notable persons who influenced this generation include Mark Twain, JP Morgan, Jay Gould, John D. Rockefeller, Ulysses S. Grant, Louisa May Alcott and Lewis Carroll.\n\n"}
{"id": "20147819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20147819", "title": "Homecoming Scotland 2009", "text": "Homecoming Scotland 2009\n\nHomecoming Scotland 2009 was a series of events designed to attract people of Scottish ancestry to visit Scotland. The campaign, organised by EventScotland and VisitScotland on behalf of the Scottish Government, and part-financed by the European Regional Development Fund, claimed that \"for every single Scot in their native land, there are thought to be at least five more overseas who can claim Scottish ancestry.\"\n\n2009 was the 250th anniversary of the birth of Robert Burns, the national poet. In addition to Burns-related events, the other four themes of the Homecoming were Scotland's culture and heritage, great Scottish minds and innovations, and golf and whisky.\n\nOn 16 June 2008 Scotland's First Minister, Alex Salmond MSP MP, officially launched Homecoming Scotland 2009 at Edinburgh Castle. The Homecoming started on 25 January 2009 (Burns night) and ran until 30 November 2009 (St Andrews Day).\n\nOn 24 July 2009 a Clan Convention, composed of the clan chiefs, clan commanders and leading clan representatives of Scottish clans, met to discuss the \"Role of the Clan in the 21st century\". The Clan Convention took place within the Scottish Parliament.\n\nThe centrepiece event of the year was The Gathering 2009, on 25 and 26 July, centred on Holyrood Park in Edinburgh. The clan gathering included highland games over the two days, a parade up the Royal Mile and a 'clan pageant' on the castle esplanade. \nPrince Charles, the Duke of Rothesay, is to be Patron of The Gathering 2009.\n\nThere was a long list of homecoming events, including several well-established events, e.g. (in date order):\n\nIn October 2008, it was announced that the Scottish Cup would be re-branded as \"The Homecoming Scottish Cup\" for the 2008/09 competition. Glasgow-based businessman Willie Haughey signed a two-year sponsorship deal for the cup, handing the branding rights over to the Scottish Government. A new name was applied to the 2009/10 competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30991037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30991037", "title": "Indigenous peoples of Panama", "text": "Indigenous peoples of Panama\n\nIndigenous peoples of Panama, or Native Panamanians, are the native peoples of Panama. According to the 2010 census, they make up 12.3% of the overall population of 3.4 million, or just over 418,000 people. The Guaymí and Ngöbe-Buglé comprise half of the indigenous peoples of Panama.\n\nMany of the Indigenous Peoples live on \"comarca indígenas\", which are administrative regions for an area with a substantial Indigenous populations. Three \"comarcas\" (Comarca Emberá-Wounaan, Guna Yala, Ngöbe-Buglé) exist as equivalent to a province, with two smaller \"comarcas\" (Kuna de Madugandí and Kuna de Wargandí) subordinate to a province and considered equivalent to a \"corregimiento\" (municipality).\n\n\nSome native peoples speak Spanish, while many more retain their traditional languages. According to the 2000 census, the following indigenous languages are spoken in Panama:\n\n"}
{"id": "19776474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19776474", "title": "Internet celebrity", "text": "Internet celebrity\n\nIn the context of present celebrity culture, an Internet celebrity, blogebrity, cyberstar, online celebrity, micro-celebrity or Internet personality is someone who has become famous by means of the Internet. The advent of social media has helped people increase their outreach to a global audience.\n\nA micro-celebrity is the state of being famous to a niche group of people on a social media platform. It's the self-presentation technique in which people view themselves as a public persona to be consumed by others. They use strategy intimacy to appeal to followers and regard their audience as fans. \n\nInternet Icon is an American Idol-like competition between groups to see who can be \"the next internet icon\" or be able to run their own YouTube channel while sustaining an audience. It premiered on YOMYOMF, and was hosted by Chester See. Notable judges include YouTube celebrity and actor Ryan Higa. \n\nAdditionally, there is also a guest judge who appears on the show each elimination episode. The contestants complete challenges at the Los Angeles Center Studios, where the show is also shot.\n\nThe competition aired for two seasons before cancellation due to funding issues.\n\nWanghong ( “网红”), or internet fame in Mandarin, is the Chinese rendition of internet stardom. It is used to describe the Chinese digital economy based on influencer marketing in social media. Wanghong has been predominantly used to generate profits via retail or eCommerce, by attracting the attention of celebrities' followers.\n\nAccording to CBN Data, a commercial data company affiliated with Alibaba, the Internet celebrities economy is set to be worth 58 billion yuan in 2016, more than China's cinema box office in 2015.\n\nThere are two main business models in the Wanghong economy: Social Media Advertising, and Online Retailing.\n\nIn the online retailing business model, eCommerce-based Wanghong use social media platform to sell their self-branded products to potential buyers among their followers via Chinese customer to customer C2C website, such as TaoBao. Celebrities work as their own shops’ models by posting pictures or videos of themselves, wearing the clothes or accessories they sell, or giving distinctive makeup or fashion tips. The celebrities serve as key opinion leaders for their followers, who either aspire to be like them, or look up to them.\n\nZhang Dayi, one of China's best known Wang Hong with 4.9 million Sina weibo followers, she has her online shop in TaoBao website, reportedly earning 300 million yuan ($46 million) per year. This is comparable to the $21 million made by Fan Bingbing, a top Chinese actress.\n\nIn social media advertising, internet celebrities can be paid to advertise products. When celebrities have garnered sufficient attention and follower-ship, advertising companies approach them to help advertise products, which can then reach a large user base. \n\nCensorship in Chinese media has created an entire social media ecosystem, that has become wildly successful in its own way. For every social media platform the Western world, there is a Chinese version of it, and it can be equally successful. In China, the social media platforms used are different, but the results are the same - they generate revenue. The greatest difference between Chinese Wanghong celebrities and their Western counterparts lies in that, the profits they generate can be immense. Because unlike YouTube, which takes a 45% of the commission on ads, Weibo, one of the biggest social media platforms of China, is not involved in advertising whatsoever. That allows internet celebrities to be more independent and monthly incomes can exceed 10 million RMB ($1.5 million) for those at the top.\n\nMillions of people write online journals or weblogs. In many cases these contributions do not make them notable on a large scale, or only for people with the same specialist interest. But if the author has or develops a distinctive personality, they may rise to fame derived from this as much as from the content of their blog.\n\nIn some cases, people might rise to fame through a single event or video that goes viral. The Internet allows videos, news articles, and jokes to spread very quickly. Depending on the reach of the spread, the content may become considered an \"Internet meme,\" and thus, any of the people associated may gain exposure for posting really intelligent content. For example, Zach Anner, an Austin, Texas-based comedian gained worldwide attention after submitting a video to Oprah Winfrey's \"Search for the Next TV Star\" competition. There is substantial searching online for people.\n\nInternet celebrities have also become a popular phenomenon in China (PRC) with the likes of Sister Furong (Fu Rong Jiejie), who received worldwide notoriety and fame for her unashamed efforts at self-promotion via Internet postings.\n\nThe concept of web celebrity ties into Andy Warhol's quip about 15 minutes of fame. A more recent adaptation of Warhol's quip, possibly prompted by the rise of online social networking, blogging, and similar online phenomena, is the claim that \"In the future, everyone will be famous to fifteen people\" or, in some renditions, \"On the Web, everyone will be famous to fifteen people\". This quote, though attributed to David Weinberger, was said to have originated with the Scottish artist Momus.\n\nSocial media personalities often function as lifestyle gurus who present a particular lifestyle or attitude to their spectators. In this role they may be crucial influencers / multipliers for trends in the fashion industry, variously also becoming popular (\":wikt:fashionista\") as fashion bloggers or (unlearned) fashion designers.\n\nOccasionally an Internet celebrity has naively invited fans to meet him/her at a certain place and time, without proper organization, attracting crowds of fans, causing disorderly and even unsafe situations. Alternatively it can be organized in a venue, with security personnel. Magcon is an example of even a group of internet celebrities meeting fans in the latter way.\n\nRyan Higa, known by his YouTube username \"nigahiga\", is an American comedian, YouTube personality, and actor. He is known for his comedy videos on YouTube, which have been viewed over 3 billion times. His YouTube channel has over 20 million subscribers, making him the 26th most subscribed YouTuber alongside singer Shakira.\n\nHiga was born in Hilo, Hawaii, on the 6th of June 1990. He is of Japanese descent. In the mid-2006, Higa began making lip-sync videos with a good friend, Sean Fujiyoshi while attending Waiakea High School. They expanded their repertoire to include comedy pieces, with frequent guest appearances by Tim Enos, Ryan Villaruel, Kyle Chun, and Tarynn Nago. \n\nInitial efforts on the YouTube channel was fraught with copyright infringement. On Christmas Eve of 2008, Higa and Fujiyoshi's two most popular videos, \"How To Be Gangster\" and \"How To Be Emo\", were removed due to copyright violations. The nigahiga account was also temporarily suspended in January 2009, as more videos with copyrighted content was found, and were required to be removed. Most of the initial lip-sync videos that made Higa famous were all deleted as a result, except for one. \n\nSince then, Higa started composing the music himself. \"How to be Gangster\" and \"How to be Emo\" were put back on nigahiga's channel in late August 2009, only to be removed a few days later, along with \"How to be Ninja\" and \"How to be Nerd\". In Spring 2010, \"How to be Ninja\", \"How to be Gangster\" and \"How to be Emo\" were made public once more.\n\nBy December 2010, nigahiga has become the first YouTube channel to hit 3 million subscribers. According to Higa, the channel name, nigahiga, is the combination of \"niga\" which means \"rant\" in Japanese, and \"Higa\", his last name.\n\nA second channel, HigaTV, was created in 2011. This channel posts videos on behind the scenes action for the main channel, and serves as a vlog for Higa. By 2017, this channel has 4.9 million subscribers.\n\nHiga and Fujiyoshi have put together a production company, The Ryan Higa Production Company, to create videos for the nigahiga channel. Later, a parody K-pop group, Boys generally Asian was created by Higa and his friends.\n\nLogan Alexander Paul (born April 1, 1995) is an American internet personality and actor from Westlake, Ohio. Paul first gained fame through videos shared on former internet video service Vine. He grew up with his younger brother Jake, and began creating internet videos for a YouTube channel called Zoosh when he was 10 years old.\n\nPaul rose to fame as a member on the Internet video sharing service Vine. In February 2014, he had over 3.1 million followers on various social media platforms. By April 2014 he had attained 105,000 Twitter followers, 361,000 Instagram followers, 31,000 likes on his Facebook page and about 150,000 subscribers to his YouTube channel. A YouTube compilation video of his Vine work garnered more than four million views the first week it was posted. In 2015 he was ranked as the 10th most influential figure on Vine, with his six-second videos earning him hundreds of thousands of dollars in advertising revenue.\n\nPaul created his YouTube channel, TheOfficialLoganPaul, to upload comedy sketches and short films. He also has a vlog channel, \"Logan Paul Vlogs\", where he posts daily from September 12, 2016, to January 1, 2018. His first channel has 4.4 million subscribers, and his vlog channel has 15.7 million followers by January 2018.\n\nPaul was at the center of a controversy when he filmed the corpse of a recently deceased Japanese man, in the suicide forest at Aoikigahara, at the foot of the Fuji Mountains. Initially intended to be part three of his \"Tokyo Adventures\" series, Paul and his group had planned to camp in the woods, but in response to finding the corpse, decided to notify the authorities and cancel their plans. The video gained 6.3 million views within 24 hours of being uploaded. \n\nPaul received flak from celebrities, politicians and fellow YouTube stars for posting the video of the dead man, which they felt was an act of disrespect to the deceased. A petition was started on Change.org to urge YouTube to delete Paul's channel, the largest of which received more than 500,000 signatures as of January 12, 2018.\n\nAs a result of the backlash, Paul removed the video from his YouTube channel, following up with a written apology on Twitter on January 1, 2018. On January 2, 2018, a subsequent video apology was released to YouTube in which Paul describes his behavior as a \"coping mechanism,\" asking his fans to stop defending his actions in the process. While acknowledging his actions as irresponsible, he denied that his intention was to mock the victim. \n\nPaul uploaded a video on January 24, looking at suicide prevention, interviewing Golden Gate Bridge jumper Kevin Hines, musical activist Bob Forrest, and National Suicide Prevention Lifeline director Dr. John Draper. The video was well received with a total of 29 million views as of 4 April 2018. He also donated $1 million to suicide prevention agencies. \n\nAfter a one-month long absence, Logan Paul returned to making videos on YouTube on February 4, 2018.\n\nScumbag Steve came to fame back in 2011. The meme centered around the photo of a young man wearing a hat backward and askance. The overlaid text generally centers around unethical behavior regarding drugs, partying, and other hedonistic behaviors.\n\nThe original image came from the cover of the album “Ma Gangsta” by the rap group Beantown Mafia. The first known images were posted in a compilation to Reddit in a thread that reached the front page on January 21st, 2011 and received 8,607 upvotes prior to being archived. A commenter in the Reddit thread identified the young man in the photo as Blake Boston, also known as “Weezy B.”\n\nIn an interview with Know Your Meme, Blake revealed that the picture was originally taken by his mother.\n\nInitially, Boston had a very mixed feelings about his fame. The original reaction to his newfound infamy led to people threatening him and his family for no reason. In an interview with Know Your Meme, he said: \"People started blowing up [calling] my phone, telling me I was all over the net. At first it went deep. Then I couldn’t help but laugh. People got my name, my phone, my Facebook, started callin’. Callin’ me all kind of racist things, callin’ my girl and my family all hours of the night.\" He eventually came to terms with his likeness becoming a part of internet lore. \n\nThe meme was particularly well received by Reddit’s /r/trees subreddit, leading to creation of many image macros with references to smoking etiquettes and commonly shared experiences under the influence of cannabis. Blake later confirmed his appreciation of the marijuana enthusiast subreddit, /trees.\n\nIn 2012, Boston announced his intention to capitalize on the fame he had gained through this meme by releasing one song on iTunes every Thursday, under the alias \"Blake Boston AKA Scumbag Steve\".\n\nTardar Sauce (born April 4, 2012) is an American cat internet celebrity, known for the permanently \"grumpy\" facial expression, caused by dwarfism and an underbite. She came to prominence when a photograph of her was posted on social news website Reddit by Bryan Bundesen, the brother of her owner Tabatha, in September 2012, and lolcats and parodies created from the photograph by Reddit users went viral. She is the subject of a popular internet meme in which negative, cynical lolcats are made from photographs of her.\n\nGrumpy Cat is born into a litter of four, of an unknown breed. She and her brother Pokey were born to normal parents with \"a flat face, bubble eyes, and a short tail\" Although she has a constant grumpy look to her, the owners say that the cat is a normal kitty \"99% of the time\".\n\nTardar Sauce has her own manager, Ben Lashes, who also represents the Keyboard Cat and Nyan Cat. As a celebrity pet, her interactions with the public is limited. Photo sessions are only once a week, and handling by strangers is limited. At South by Southwest Interactive, Tardar Sauce made limited two-hour appearances each day as Grumpy Cat.\n\nHer fame has brought her media appearances on NBC News's \"Today\", ABC News's \"Good Morning America\", \"CBS Evening News\", \"Anderson Live\", VH1's \"Big Morning Buzz Live\", \"The Soup\" and FOX's \"American Idol\". In September 2013, it was announced that Grumpy Cat would become the Official Spokescat of Friskies. \n\nAs of 11 April 2018, Grumpy Cat has 2.4 million followers on Instagram.\n\n"}
{"id": "56331370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56331370", "title": "Jeffrey J. Funke", "text": "Jeffrey J. Funke\n\nJeffrey J. Funke (born April 15, 1969) is an Associate Justice of the Nebraska Supreme Court.\n\nFunke received his undergraduate degree from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln in 1991 and his Juris Doctor from the University of Nebraska College of Law in 1994.\n\nAfter graduating law school Funke worked in private practice, served as a county attorney and as a deputy public defender.\n\nFunke served as a state court judge from 2007 to 2016, when he was named to the bench in Sarpy County. He was appointed district judge in 2013 by former Governor Dave Heineman.\n\nFunke was one of seven applicants who sought the open seat on the Supreme Court. He was appointed to the Supreme Court court on June 15, 2016, by Governor Pete Ricketts to succeed Justice William M. Connolly, who retired effective August 1, 2016. At the time of his appointment, he was the Court's youngest jurist.\n\n"}
{"id": "25241150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25241150", "title": "Khyang people", "text": "Khyang people\n\nKheyang is the exonym of the Hyow. There Kheyang or the Hyow (খেয়াং), are a group of indigenous people inhabiting in the Chittagong Hill Tracts of Bangladesh and the Rakhine State of Myanmar. The word Kheyang originated in khlɔng (see VanBik, 2009: 3-4), which means person \"in the language. The endonym Hyow means Chin.\" The Khyang are one of the smallest ethnic groups in Bangladesh with a population of only 2,345 according to the 1991 census. At present, the approximate number of the Khyang in Bangladesh is 4500. They live in Kaptai and Chandraghona in Rangamati Hill District and in Bandarban Sadar, Thanchi and Rowangcchari upazila in Bandarban District.\n. In Myanmar, they live in the Myebon, Minbya and Ann townships of the Rakhine State.\n\nAccording to Kheyang Chronicles, the Khyangs with their King entered Chittagong Hill Tracts when their kingdom in Burma was overrun by the Burmese. But afterwards the King decided to go back to Burma. But his younger queen being pregnant could not accompany him. Hence she was left behind with some followers and kinsmen. The present Kheyang are the descendants of this queen and her retinue. However, the literature of the Burmese history tells that the Kheyang migrated with the Marma from the southern Myanmar in the late eighteenth century. The Kheyang have two groups in Bangladesh: Laitu and Kongtu. The Kheyang were Buddhists but many converted to Christianity during the British period. Most Khyang today are under the Mong family or the \"Royal Family\" which is from Chandraghona, Rangamati Hill Districts in Bangladesh.\n\nEvery Khyang society has a leader who is called ‘Karbari’ or ‘Headman.’ Kheyang society has a patriarchal structure. The father of a family is the master of the house. If a village lacks a headman, the villagers unitedly appoint a leader. The leader solves all the disputes that may develop among the villagers and, thus, helps them live in peace. If a person is accused of any criminal wrongdoing, the headmantakes steps in line with customary social laws.\n\nThe accused is generally punished or forgiven, and the judgement is passed in front of all after measuring the enormity of the misdeed. Both the male and female of the Kheyang community are very industrious. Men dominate and especially follow the laws of society.\n\n"}
{"id": "41427167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41427167", "title": "Leo T. Sorokin", "text": "Leo T. Sorokin\n\nLeo Theodore Sorokin (born April 20, 1961) is a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts and former United States Magistrate Judge of the same court.\n\nSorokin received a Bachelor of Arts degree, cum laude, in 1983 from Yale College. He received a Juris Doctor in 1991 from Columbia Law School. He served as a law clerk to Judge Rya W. Zobel of the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts from 1991 to 1992. He worked in private practice at the law firm of Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo P.C., from 1992 to 1994. \n\nFrom 1994 to 1996, he served in the Office of the Attorney General of Massachusetts as Assistant Attorney General and, from 1996 to 1997, as Opinions Coordinator in the same office. He served as an Assistant Federal Public Defender in Boston, from 1997 to 2005. In 2005, he was appointed as a United States Magistrate Judge in the District of Massachusetts, becoming Chief United States Magistrate Judge in 2012.\n\nOn December 19, 2013, President Obama nominated Sorokin to serve as a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, to the seat vacated by Judge Joseph L. Tauro, who took senior status on September 26, 2013. He received a hearing before the United States Senate Judiciary Committee on February 25, 2014. On March 27, 2014, his nomination was reported out of committee by voice vote. On June 5, 2014, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid filed for cloture on the nomination. On Monday, June 9, 2014, the Senate agreed on the motion to invoke cloture by a vote of 52–33. On Tuesday, June 10, 2014, the Senate voted 91–0 in favor of final confirmation. He received his judicial commission on June 10, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "6268806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6268806", "title": "Limba people (Sierra Leone)", "text": "Limba people (Sierra Leone)\n\nThe Limba people are a major ethnic group in the Sierra Leone. They form the third largest ethnic group in the country, about 8.5% of Sierra Leone's total population (about 566,529 members).\n\nThe Limba are Indigenous people of Sierra Leone and speak various dialects of a language largely unrelated to other tribal languages in Sierra Leone. They are primarily found in the Northern Province, particularly in Bombali District, Koinadugu and Kambia District. During Sierra Leone's colonial era thousands of Limbas migrated to the capital city of Freetown and its Western Area. As a result, a significant number of Limbas can be found in Freetown and its surrounding Western Area. During the 16th, 17th, and 18th century, many Limba people were shipped to North America as slaves.\n\nThe Limba are mainly rice farmers, traders and hunters who live in the savannah-woodland region in the Northern Province of Sierra Leone. They predominate in 7 of Sierra Leone's 149 rural chiefdoms, and their community affairs are dominated by the local paramount chiefs.\n\nMembers of the Limba tribe believe that they have always lived in Sierra Leone in the Wara Wara mountains and were probably the first rulers of the country. It is believed by some historians that the Limba have already been living in Sierra Leone when colony take place. They were also brilliant scholars and philosophers brought their knowledge of agriculture and trade with them and with that built a society based on this sole ideal: If you work and respect the land properly then you are worthy to enjoy the fruits of your labor. During the colonial era of Sierra Leone, many Limba people were captured and sold at Bunce Island as slaves to the Americas through the Atlantic slave trade. To escape this, many Limba people traveled to the capital city of Freetown and the Western area and as a result, most Limba are located in these places.\n\nThe Limba consider themselves to be a mountain people and have at points in their history found themselves pushed into the mountains particularly during the periods of Susu expansionism. Historically, they also had to fight off incursions from the Fula and the Mandingo. The Limba take pride in their unique language which differs from the other languages spoken in Sierra Leone. As a result, Limbas strive to be very articulate with their vocabulary as a way of sticking out among the rest. They are mostly rice farmers, palm wine brewers and stone builders. They have names similar to the Temne people. They also have a past and current interest in politics, for example Siaka Stevens as the first president of Sierra Leone from 1971-1985, Ernest Bai Koroma as the current president of Sierra Leone from 2007, Christian Alusine Karamara-Taylor as a founding member of the All People's Congress and Paolo Conteh, the current defence minister and Eric Dura Sesay as the Bombali district chairman.According to folklore, Limbas make excellent political leaders because they are descendants of the original rulers of Sierra Leone. The Limba's main sport of interest is soccer which is quite common amongst nations in West Africa. Some popular Limba soccer players are Lamin Conteh and Saidu Tibati Kanu. The Limba have a spiritual home called Kakoia and they believe all Limbas return to the mountain through the town beyond a \"door\" through the rock. An ancient wooden figure discovered in a cave at Kakoia was probably made by the Limba people. Now in the British Museum, it may have represented an ancestor or deity. They also have a folklore about spirits called Krifi but information about this is limited.\n\nThe Limba in the southern province are mostly influenced by Christianity. Portuguese Christian missionary efforts began before the Protestant Reformation but had no lasting effects on the Temne. The Protestant presence accompanied the founding of Freetown in the late eighteenth century; Church Missionary Society representatives were active up the Rokel River and elsewhere in Temne country throughout the nineteenth century. In the 1890s the Soudna Mission was the first American mission in the Temne area; American Wesleyans and the Evangelical United Brethren subsequently joined the field. Today, 65% of Limba are followers of Christianity.\n\nThe Limba in the Northern Province are somewhat influenced by Islam. Muslim contacts probably go back several centuries, and fifteenth-century Portuguese were cognizant of Muslim peoples. Early traders, holy men, and warriors brought Islam into the Temne area from the north by the Susu and northeast by the Fula and Mandinka. Through the nineteenth century, as the volume of trade grew, Muslim influences increased; in the late twentieth century a significant proportion of Temne claim to be Muslim converts.\n\nAlthough 30% of Limba have converted to Islam, they still practice their traditional religion, as well.\n\nCommon Limba surnames include Conteh, Sesay, Dumbuya, Kargbo, Samura, Kamara, Turay, Bangura,Thoronka, Mansaray, Koroma, and Kanu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33228451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33228451", "title": "Lish language", "text": "Lish language\n\nLish (also called Lishpa or Khispi) is a Kho-Bwa language of West Kameng district, Arunachal Pradesh in India. It is closely related to Chug.\n\nThe Lish (population 1,567 in 1981) live in Dirang village, a few miles from Chug village, and in Gompatse. The Gompatse variety is not Lish proper, but is rather a lect closely related to Lish.\n\nLish is also spoken in Khispi village. Despite speaking languages closely related to Mey (Sherdukpen), the people identify as Monpa, not Mey.\n\nAccording to Lieberherr & Bodt (2017), Lish is spoken by 1,500 people in 3 main villages.\n"}
{"id": "39488410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39488410", "title": "List of Asian cuisines", "text": "List of Asian cuisines\n\nThis is a list of Asian cuisines, by region. A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions, usually associated with a specific culture or region. Asia, being the largest and most populous continent, has many great cuisines.\n\nEast Asian cuisine has evolved with a common usage of oils, fats and sauces in the preparation of dishes (with the notable exception of Japanese cuisine).\n\n\n\nSoutheast Asian cuisine – includes a strong emphasis on lightly prepared dishes with a strong aromatic component that features such flavors as citrus and herbs such as mint, cilantro (coriander) and basil. Ingredients in the region contrast with the ones in the Eastern Asian cuisines, substituting fish sauces for soy sauce and the inclusion of ingredients such as galangal, tamarind and lemon grass. Cooking methods include a balance of stir-frying, boiling and steaming.\n\nSouth Asian cuisine includes the cuisines from the Indian subcontinent and when included in the definition, also that of Afghanistan. It has roots in South Asia, including practices taken from the Hindu beliefs practiced by the large population found in the region, alongside in some regional cuisines, certain influences from neighboring regions and cultures, particularly from Muslim cultures of the Middle East and Central Asia. Dishes in this area of the world are known for their use of hot peppers, black pepper, cloves, and other strong spices along with the flavored butter ghee. Common meats include lamb, goat and chicken; beef is not as common as in western cuisines because the tenets of the Hindu faith prohibit its consumption. Other staples of many of the cuisines include rice, chapati made from wheat and barley, and beans. The cuisine of South Asia has mostly indigenous roots, as well as practices taken from the Hindu beliefs practiced by the large population found in the region. Naan, a type of flat bread from the former regions, is a common part of meals in many parts of South Asia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15017846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15017846", "title": "Low Lusatian German", "text": "Low Lusatian German\n\nLow Lusatian German (in German: \"Niederlausitzer Mundart\" (also English: \"Low Lusatian Dialect\")) is a variety of Central German spoken in northern Saxony and southern Brandenburg within the regions of Lower Lusatia (Cottbus) and the northern part of Upper Lusatia (Hoyerswerda). It is well-defined from the Low German dialects around and north of Berlin as well as the Saxon dialect group of present-day Saxony and the Slavic language of the Sorbs.\n\nBoth regions were strongly influenced by different dialects, especially after World War II. Refugees from East Prussia and Silesia settled there after their dispossession from former German areas. After the foundation of the German Democratic Republic and an economical development because of a stronger extraction of lignite people from Mecklenburg, Thuringia, Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt moved to the Lusatia region to benefit from the development. Due to this influence of other German dialects Low Lusatian never formed a too strong variation from standard German. For people moving now into this area the dialect is easy to learn and influences their spoken language quite fast.\n\nLow Lusatian German lacks regional specific words. It contains syncopes and apocopes which are used in nearly every German dialect. The only somewhat different articulation is the guttural , where Standard German's ending is instead :\n\nAt the beginning of a word the is always spoken, but it is nearly inaudible within a word. The same effect can be seen on the letter which also mostly vanishes in the endings, the changing of to / , and the stretching of / to :\n\nThe short is spoken similarly to the standard German ( or ):\n\nAnother sign is a different form of the perfect:\n\n"}
{"id": "2784493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2784493", "title": "Madiga", "text": "Madiga\n\nMadiga (also known as Maadiga,Maatangi, Makkalu, Madiga and Madigaru) are a Dalit artisan group. They are classified as a Scheduled Caste and are found in the southern Indian state of Andhra Pradesh,Telangana,Karnataka,Kerala and also found in Northern states of Maharashtra,Chhattisgarh,Odisha,Madhyapradesh .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2459191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2459191", "title": "Maragang", "text": "Maragang\n\nThe Maragang or Kimaragang people are an indigenous ethnic group residing in Sabah, eastern Malaysia on the island of Borneo. They reside in the Kota Marudu and Pitas districts of Kudat Division. Their population was estimated at 10,000 in the year 1987. They are considered a sub-group of the Kadazan-Dusun, as their language (ISO 639-3 kqr) belongs to the Dusunic branch of the Austronesian language family. They are primarily farmers, raising paddy rice, cocoa, and cash crops.\n"}
{"id": "37297269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37297269", "title": "Momogun language", "text": "Momogun language\n\nKimaragang (Marigang), Tobilung, and Rungus are varieties of a single Austronesian language of Sabah, Malaysia. The three varieties share moderate mutual intelligibility. Children are not learning it well in some areas.\n\n\"Minokok\" is an endonym of the Sugut Dusun. Their language may be a dialect of Rungus. Their number are not included in the population estimate at right.\n\n"}
{"id": "84211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84211", "title": "Nakh languages", "text": "Nakh languages\n\nThe Nakh languages are a group of languages within Northeast Caucasian, spoken chiefly by the Chechens and Ingush in the North Caucasus within Southern Russia.\n\nBats is the endangered language of the Bats people, an ethnic minority in Georgia.\nThe Chechen, Ingush and Bats peoples are also grouped under the ethno-linguistic umbrella of Nakh peoples.\n\nThe Nakh languages were historically classified as an independent North-Central Caucasian family, but are now recognized as a branch of the Northeast Caucasian family. \n\nThe separation of Nakh from common Northeast Caucasian has been tentatively dated to the Neolithic (ca. 4th millennium BC).\n\nThe Nakh language family consists of:\n\nThe Nakh languages are relevant to the glottalic theory of Indo-European, because the Vainakh branch has undergone the voicing of ejectives that has been postulated but widely derided as improbable in that family. In initial position, Bats ejectives correspond to Vainakh ejectives, but in non-initial position to Vainakh voiced consonants. (The exception is , which remains an ejective in Vainakh.)\n\nA similar change has taken place in some of the other Dagestanian languages.\n\nMany obscure ancient languages or peoples have been postulated by scholars of the Caucasus as Nakh, many in the South Caucasus. None of these have been confirmed; most are classified as Nakh on the basis of placenames.\n\nThe Èrsh language, language of the Èrs who inhabited Northern Armenia, and then, (possibly) later, mainly Hereti in Southeast Georgia and Northwest Azerbaijan. This is considered to be more or less confirmed as Nakh. They were assimilated eventually, and their language was replaced by Georgian or Azeri.\n\nThe language of the Malkhs (whose name, malkh, refers to the sun) in the North Caucasus, who lived in modern day Kabardino-Balkaria, Karachay–Cherkessia, and once briefly conquered Ubykhia and Abkhazia. They were conquered first by Scythian-speaking Alan tribes and then by Turkic tribes, and seem to have largely abandoned their homeland and found shelter among the Chechens, leading to the formation of a teip named after them. Those who stayed behind were either wiped out or assimilated.\n\nThe language of the Kakh, old inhabitants of Kakheti and Tusheti in Eastern Georgia. The Kakh apparently called themselves Kabatsas and their territory Kakh-Batsa. They may or may not be ancestral to the modern Bats, and they may or may not be closely related to them. They were assimilated (completely or almost completely, depending on if one believes the theory that the Bats are descended from them) by the Kartlians to speak Georgian.\n\nGligvs, a mysterious people in the North Caucasus attributed by Georgian historians to be a Nakh people. They may be ancestral to the Ingush, but the term used by Georgians consistently for the Ingush is \"Kist\", causing large amounts of confusion (as the Nakh people in Georgia who speak Chechen are also called \"Kists\").\n\nThe language of the Tsanars in historical Georgia is thought by many historians to be Nakh, based on place names, geographic location, and other such information.\n\nThe language of the Dvals is thought to be Nakh by many historians, though there is a rivaling camp arguing for its status as a close relative of Ossetic. Various backing for the Nakh theory (different scholars use different arguments) includes the presence of Nakh placenames in former Dval territory, evidence of Nakh–Svan contact which probably would've required the Nakh nature of the Dvals or people there before them, and the presence of a foreign-origin Dval clan among the Chechens, seemingly implying that the Dvals found shelter (like the Malkhs are known to have done) among the Chechens from the conquest of their land by foreign invaders (presumably Ossetes). The Dvals were assimilated by the Georgians (and possibly the Ossetes as well) and conquered by the Ossetes in the north. It is thought that Dval did not go fully extinct until the 18th century, making the Dvals the most recent Nakh people known to have died out (if they were Nakh).\n\nAccording to Georgian scholars I.A. Javashvili and Giorgi Melikishvili, the Urartian state of Supani was occupied by the ancient Nakh tribe Tsov, whose state is called Tsobena in ancient Georgian historiography. The Tsov language was the dominant language spoken by its people, and was thought by these Georgian historians (as well as a number of others) to be Nakh. Tsov and its relatives in the area may have contributed to the Hurro-Urartian substratum in the Armenian language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28014368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28014368", "title": "Ozark Medieval Fortress", "text": "Ozark Medieval Fortress\n\nOzark Medieval Fortress is a project designed to construct an accurate replica of a 13th-century French castle in Lead Hill, Arkansas. Construction is carried out on the site using only materials and techniques appropriate to the 13th century. The ground was broken in 2009, with the expectation that completion will take about 20 years.\n\nThe project was inspired by Guédelon Castle in France, which is the first attempt to build a medieval castle using accurate construction methods, started by Michel Guyot. Two French citizens living in Arkansas offered to sell Guyot part of their land for the building of a similar fortification. Guyot accepted, and construction began in June 2009.\n\nIn May 2010, Ozark Medieval Fortress opened to the public. Visitors had the opportunity to observe the ongoing construction and talk to the costumed workers. Additionally, starting in 2011 a collection of medieval siege weapons was to be on display. The site was open every day from 10AM to 6PM.\n\nIn January 2012 the project closed indefinitely, requiring a buyer or an investor.\n\nGuédelon Castle - the original project to build a medieval French castle\n"}
{"id": "42392538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42392538", "title": "Presidency of Telecommunication and Communication", "text": "Presidency of Telecommunication and Communication\n\nThe Directorate of Telecommunication and Communication was Turkey's telecom authority prior to being shut down in August 2016. The organization's acronym in Turkish \"TIB\" had become synonymous for internet censorship by the time of closure due to its appearance on tens of thousands of internet block pages. It was part of the Information and Communication Technologies Authority, which is now directly responsible for duties previously tasked to the directorate.\n\nIts 2014 blocking of Twitter was ruled to be unconstituational.\n\n"}
{"id": "46597469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46597469", "title": "Privacy engineering", "text": "Privacy engineering\n\nPrivacy engineering is an emerging discipline within, at least, the software or information systems domain which aims to provide methodologies, tools, and techniques such that the engineered systems provide acceptable levels of privacy. In the US acceptable level of privacy is defined in terms of compliance to the functional and non-functional requirements set out through a privacy policy, while in the EU, the General Data Protection Regulation sets the requirements that need to be fulfilled. In the rest of the world, the requirements change depending on local implementations of privacy and data protection laws.\n\nThe definition of privacy engineering given by National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is:\n\nWhile privacy has been developing as a legal domain, privacy engineering has only really come to the fore in recent years as the necessity of implementing said privacy laws in information systems has become a definite requirement to the deployment of such information systems. For example, IPEN outlines their position in this respect as:\n\nPrivacy engineering involves aspects such as process management, security, ontology and software engineering. The actual application of these derives from necessary legal compliances, privacy policies and `manifestos' such as Privacy-by-Design.\n\nTowards the more implementation levels, privacy engineering employs privacy enhancing technologies to enable anonymisation and de-identification of data. Privacy engineering requires suitable security engineering practices to be deployed, and some privacy aspects can be implemented using security techniques. A privacy impact assessment is another tool within this context and its use does not imply that privacy engineering is being practiced.\n\nOne area of concern is the proper definition and application of terms such as personal data, personally identifiable information, anonymisation and pseudo-anonymisation which lack sufficient and detailed enough meanings when applied to software, information systems and data sets.\n\nAnother facet of information system privacy has been the ethical use of such systems with particular concern on surveillance, big data collection, artificial intelligence etc. Some members of the privacy and privacy engineering communication advocate the idea of Ethics engineering or reject the possibility of engineering privacy into systems intended for surveillance.\n\nAs this particular field is still in its infancy and somewhat dominated by the legal aspects, the following list just outlines the primary areas on which privacy engineering is based:\n\n\nDespite the lack of a cohesive development of the above areas, courses already exist for the training of privacy engineering. The International Workshop on Privacy Engineering co-located with IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy provides a venue to address \"the gap between research and practice in systematizing and evaluating approaches to capture and address privacy issues while engineering information systems\".\n\nAs an area privacy engineering is particular concerned with the processing of information over the following aspects or ontologies and their relations to their implementation in software:\n\n\nFurther to this how the above then affect the security classification, risk classification and thus the levels of protection and flow within a system can then the metricised or calculated.\n\nAs already stated, privacy is an area dominated by legal aspects but requiring implementation using, ostensibly, engineering techniques, disciplines and skills. Privacy Engineering as an overall discipline takes its basis from considering privacy not just as a legal aspect or engineering aspect and their unification but also utilising the following areas:\n\n\nThe impetus for technological progress in privacy engineering stems from general privacy laws and various particular legal acts:\n\n"}
{"id": "1946443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1946443", "title": "Rehabilitation (penology)", "text": "Rehabilitation (penology)\n\nRehabilitation is the re-integration into society of a convicted person and the main objective of modern penal policy, to counter habitual offending, also known as criminal recidivism.\n\nAlternatives to imprisonment also exist, such as community service, probation orders, and others entailing guidance and aftercare towards the defender\n\nA successful rehabilitation of a prisoner is also helped if convicted persons:\n\nSee also prisoners' rights.\n\nNorway’s prison system is based on the principle of normalization, in which inmates have access to amenities they would have outside of prison, such as an exclusive mini fridge, flat-screen TV, private bathroom, and access to outdoor environment. This, along with a shared kitchen and living area “to create a sense of family” among inmates and the absence of traditional prison uniforms contributes to Norway’s rehabilitative normalcy system. The prison’s structure is composed of Units A, B and C with Unit A housing those in need of psychiatric or medical attention, thus being the most prohibitive of the three. Halden Fengsel, referred to as the “world’s most humane maximum-security prison” embodies the country’s goal of reintegration by aiding inmates in sorting out housing and employment before leaving the prison. Rehabilitative measures involve education, job training, workshops to acquire a trade, and therapy along with the humane treatment they receive from personnel who have to complete 3 years of training to become prison guards. The effectiveness of Norway’s methods is evident as they hold the lowest recidivism rate worldwide at less than 30%. “Better out than in” is Norway’s Correctional Service unofficial motto that is in view with their rehabilitative system as a justice to society by integrating inmates as functioning members of society upon release.\n\nAs established by the Council of Europe committee of ministers, \"a crime policy aimed at crime prevention and the social reintegration of offenders should be pursued and developed\".\n\n\"The European Court of Human Rights, also, has stated in various judgments that, while punishment remains one of the aims of imprisonment, the emphasis in European penal policy is now on the rehabilitative aim of imprisonment, particularly towards the end of a long prison sentence... A prospect of release is necessary, because human dignity requires that there must be a chance for a prisoner to atone for his offence and move towards rehabilitation. A review system is also needed because, over the course of a very long sentence, the balance between the grounds of detention (punishment, deterrence, public protection and rehabilitation) can shift to the point that detention can no longer be justified.\"\n\nPer the , «Everyone has the right to life and to inviolability of his person. The freedom of the individual is inviolable. These rights may only be encroached upon pursuant to a law».\n\nPer the , «Punishment cannot consist in treatment contrary to human dignity and must aim at rehabilitating the condemned».\n\nThe Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 of the UK Parliament enables some criminal convictions to be ignored after a rehabilitation period.\n\nThe United States Code states that sentencing judges shall make imprisonment decisions \"recognizing that imprisonment is not an appropriate means of promoting correction and rehabilitation\".\n\nIn 2015 a number of reformers, including Koch family foundations, the ACLU, the Center for American Progress, Families Against Mandatory Minimums, the Coalition for Public Safety, and the MacArthur Foundation, announced a bipartisan resolution to reform the criminal justice system in the United States. Their efforts were lauded by President Obama who noted these reforms will improve rehabilitation and workforce opportunities for those who have served their sentences.\n\nOver the last few decades, the United States prison population has increased significantly. While prisons are considered punishment, they also are intended to have the purpose of future crime prevention. A recent study found that of $74 billion total spent on incarceration among federal, state and local prisons, less than 1% of that was spent on prevention and treatment. Incarceration not only harms the individual as intended, but also has unintended negative effects on the inmate’s family, community, and overall society. Inmate education has been shown to reduce recidivism. Evidence shows that inmates overwhelmingly take advantage of education programs if they are available to them and if they can afford them. A recent study showed the earning a GED while incarcerate reduced recidivism rates by 14% for those under 21, and 5% for those over 21. Substance abuse is also a major issue in the prison system. Between 1996 and 2006, despite a modest population increase of 12%, the number of incarcerated individuals rose by 33% and the number of substance-abusing individuals rose by 43%. Existing treatment programs have shown solid evidence that drug treatment programs, along with support after release, are effective at reducing recidivism. Emotional and mental health counseling is a core component of successful inmate rehabilitation. Without the proper innate motivation and desire from the inmate, attempts to educate or assist with substance abuse are less effective. A study revealed that more than half of those incarcerated had a mental health problem, defined as a recent history or symptoms of a mental health problem within the previous 12 months.\n\nCalifornia’s juvenile justice system is based on rehabilitation instead of punishment.\n\nCriminal recidivism is highly correlated with psychopathy. The psychopath is defined by an uninhibited gratification in criminal, sexual, or aggressive impulses and the \"inability to learn from past mistakes\". Individuals with this disorder gain satisfaction through their antisocial behavior and lack remorse for their actions.\n\nFindings indicate psychopathic prisoners have a 2.5 time higher probability of being released from jail than undiagnosed ones, even though they are more likely to recidivate.\n\nIt has been shown that punishment and behavior modification techniques do not improve the behavior of a psychopath. Psychopathic individuals have been regularly observed to become more cunning and better able to hide their behaviour. It has been suggested by them that traditional therapeutic approaches actually make psychopaths if not worse, then far more adept at manipulating others and concealing their behavior. They are generally considered to be not only incurable but also untreatable.\n\nPsychopaths also have a markedly distorted sense of the potential consequences of their actions, not only for others, but also for themselves. They do not, for example, deeply recognize the risk of being caught, disbelieved or injured as a result of their behaviour.\n\nSome criticisms of rehabilitative systems are that they can authorize lengthy restrictions of liberty (to allow time for diagnosis and treatment) and broad assumptions of governmental power over offenders' personalities. Moreover, due process concerns can be implicated by a lack of traditional safeguards of defendants' procedural rights in rehabilitative processes. Some rehabilitative program, such as drug courts, have also been criticized for widening the net of penal control by sentencing more defendants to prison for violations of treatment regimes than would have gone to prison in the absence of those programs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31203123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31203123", "title": "Robert J. and Claire Pasarow Foundation Medical Research Award", "text": "Robert J. and Claire Pasarow Foundation Medical Research Award\n\nThe Robert J. And Claire Pasarow Foundation Medical Research Awards were awarded annually for distinguished accomplishment in areas of investigation that included neuropsychiatry, cardiovascular disease, and cancer research. The program ran from 1987 to 2013. Each area of research was allocated US$50,000 to award to its winners.\n\nThe Pasarow Foundation was created in 1987 by Mr. and Mrs. Pasarow of Beverly Hills, California to stimulate medical and scientific research. Robert Pasarow was the founder and former President/CEO/Chairman of the Board of CHB Foods, Inc. The Pasarows established the Claire and Robert J. Pasarow Cancer Laboratory at the Kenneth Norris Jr. Cancer Hospital and Research Institute at the University of Southern California as well as the Pasarow Mass Spectrometry Laboratory at the University of California Los Angeles. Robert J. Pasarow, now deceased, was the founding President and Chairman of the Foundation and Claire Pasarow, also deceased, was the Chief Financial Officer.\n\nThe members of the board of directors were:\n\nThe principal criterion for nomination was evidence of extraordinary accomplishment in medical science.\n\nNominators provided a one-page letter of intent stating the rationale for the nomination and a copy of the nominee's curriculum vitae and bibliography in two-page NIH format. Applications were reviewed by the Board of Directors in consultation with various medical scholars.\n"}
{"id": "14469908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14469908", "title": "Rural Internet", "text": "Rural Internet\n\nRural Internet is the access to the Internet from rural areas (also referred to as \"the country\" or \"countryside\"), which are settled places outside towns and cities. Inhabitants live in villages, hamlets, on farms and in other isolated houses. Mountains and other terrain can impede rural Internet access.\n\nMost rural access to Internet is voiceband by 56k modem, but poor phone lines in many rural areas, many of which installed or last upgraded between the 1930s and the 1960s, may limit actual download speeds to 23-26k or less. Since many of these lines serve relatively few customers, phone company maintenance and speed of repair of these lines has actually degraded and their upgrade for modern quality requirements is unlikely. This results in a digital divide.\n\nIn many rural areas high-speed, reliable internet has been delivered by providers over radio-frequencies via special radio-equipped antennas. These providers have been bridging the digital divide for years, using private, non-governmental infrastructure, making it not necessary for government to become involved in distributing the internet to rural areas.\n\nMethods for broadband Internet access in rural areas include:\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture’s Economic Research Service has provided numerous studies and data on the Internet in rural America. One such article from the Agricultural Outlook magazine, \"Communications & the Internet in Rural America\", summarizes internet uses in rural areas of the United States in 2002. It indicates, \"Internet use by rural and urban households has also increased significantly during the 1990s, so significantly that it has one of the fastest rates of adoption for any household service.\"\n\nAnother area for inclusion of the Internet is American farming. One study reviewed data from 2003 and found that \"56 percent of farm operators used the Internet while 31 percent of rural workers used it at their place of work.\" In later years challenges to economical rural telecommunications remain. People in inner city areas are closer together, so the access network to connect them is shorter and cheaper to build and maintain, while rural areas require more equipment per customer. However, even with this challenge the demand for services continues to grow.\n\nIn 2011 the Federal Communications Commission proposed to use the Universal Service Fund to subsidize rural broadband Internet services.\n\nIn Spain, the Guifi.net project has been for some people the only alternative to get access to the Internet. Usually, neighbors are the responsible to collect the necessary money to buy the network equipment that will do a Wireless link with another zone that already has internet access. There have also been cases in which the own city council has invested in the infrastructure.\n\nIn the UK, the government is aiming to provide superfast broadband (speeds of 24Mbit/s or more) to 95% of the country by 2017. In 2014, a study by the Oxford Internet Institute found that in areas less than 20 miles from large cities, internet speed dropped below 2Mbit/s, the speed designated as \"adequate\" by the government.\n\nFrustrated by the slow progress being made by private telecoms companies, some rural communities have built their own broadband networks, such as the B4RN initiative.\n\nDue to poor telecommunication access in most rural areas, low-energy solutions such as those offered by Internet of Things networks are seen as a cost-effective solution well-adapted to agricultural environments. Tasks such as controlling livestock conditions and numbers, the state of crops, and pests are progressively being taken over by m2m communications. Companies such as Sigfox, Cisco Systems and Fujitsu are delving into the agricultural market, offering innovative solutions to common problems in countries such as the U.S., Japan, Ireland and Uruguay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40130966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40130966", "title": "Salvadoran Canadians", "text": "Salvadoran Canadians\n\nSalvadoran Canadians (, ) are Canadian citizens who have ancestry from El Salvador, a Central American country. Per the National Household Survey in 2011, 63,965 Canadians indicated that they were of either full or partial Salvadoran ancestry (0.2% of the country's population). Slavadoran Canadians are primarily found in large urban areas of Ontario and Quebec, namely Toronto, Mississauga, Montreal and Quebec City.\n\nSalvadorian immigration to Canada is a fairly recent phenomenon. Until the 1980s, Salvadorian immigration to Canada was small to nonexistent. It wasn't until the civil war did sizable numbers of Salvadorans started to come to the country. Between 1982 and 1987, 11,251 Salvadorans entered Canada under a special program that help displaced Salvadorans as well as Guatemalans suffering from the war. A lot like their Australian counterparts, some of these were political asylum seekers and others were refugees looking for a place to stay. Unlike their American counterparts, Salvadorans seeking refuge in Canada were more likely to have their asylum applications approved than those in the United States; as a result of different Canadian and American policy to the situation in El Salvador. In 2002, immigrants from El Salvador came to Brandon, Manitoba to work for a food processing company.\nThe province with the highest concentration of people of Salvadoran ancestry is Manitoba, which is 0.3% Salvadoran Canadian. The province with highest number of people with Salvadoran ancestry is Ontario, with 29,000 Salvadorean Canadians. The cities in Canada with the highest concentration of Salvadoran Canadians are: Brandon, Manitoba (2.3%), Kitchener, Ontario (1.1%), Montreal, Quebec (0.7%), London, Ontario (0.7%), New Westminster, British Columbia (0.7%), Toronto, Ontario (0.4%), Edmonton, Alberta (0.4%), Brampton, Ontario (0.4%), Burnaby, British Columbia (0.4%), Vancouver, British Columbia (0.3%), Ottawa, Ontario (0.3%), and Winnipeg, Manitoba (0.3%). Salvadoreans are the third largest Hispanic Population in Canada. In Toronto, many Salvadoran people are located around Eglinton Avenue and Keele Street, and along Jane Street.\n"}
{"id": "8924880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8924880", "title": "Secondary suite", "text": "Secondary suite\n\nSecondary suite (or accessory dwelling unit) is an urban planning term used mainly in North American English for a self-contained apartment in an owner occupied single-family home / lot that is either attached to the principal dwelling or in a separate structure on the same property. In British English the term \"annexe\" is used instead. Reasons for wanting to add a secondary suite to a property may be to receive additional income, provide social and personal support to a family member, or obtain greater security.\n\nA secondary suite is considered \"secondary\" or \"accessory\" to the primary residence on the parcel. It normally has its own entrance, kitchen, bathroom and living area. There are three types of accessory units: Interior, Interior with modification, and Detached. Examples of these accessory units include:\n\n\nA mother-in-law apartment is a small apartment accessory to a primary residence. Alternative names include \"granny flat\", \"granny suite\",\"in-law suite\", and \"accessory apartment\", the first being used primarily in Australia, Britain, Ireland and New Zealand, where it is the most familiar of these terms, but also in parts of the United States. Such apartments are frequently used to accommodate an elderly relative who is incapable of independent living, but is not ready for a nursing home environment or other similar facility.\n\nThe apartment may or may not have a communicating door to the main house, but virtually always has a separate entrance and is usually not part of the original design. Many are located above the garage of the main house or as a separate building in the rear lawn.\n\nIn many North American municipalities, secondary suites are illegal because they do not conform to the zoning or land use district the property is in, they have been developed without the proper permits, or they do not meet the local building code. However, some localities only prohibit the renting out of secondary suites, and allow occupation by a relative or guest, leading to the use of the term \"mother-in-law\" house or apartment. Local jurisdictions may have rules regarding allowing certain relatives to live there and rules about what, if any, rent may be charged.\n\nDual occupancy is sometimes used to refer to the development of two dwellings on one allotment of land. They may be either attached (semi-detached) or detached. The term is common in Australia. A dual occupancy can be either torrens titles or strata titled.\n\nA Dual Occupancy in Victoria,Australia is a means to add value to property through a subdivision of one lot into two. It is that subdivision that makes dual occupancy an attractive proposition for new property investors and developers.\n\nA 'granny flat' in Australia is actually also known as a secondary dwelling on a property, which is totally different to a dual occupancy. It does not require subdivision of the land and its construction require approval from the council or relevant authority. The certifying process between council or a private certifier depends on a few conditions.\n\nThe Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation provides a financial assistance program to help Canadians create affordable housing for low-income seniors and adults with a disability within a secondary suite. The program is called the Residential Rehabilitation Assistance Program (RRAP) -- Secondary/Garden Suite. The maximum fully forgivable loan depends on the location of the property:\nA 25% supplement in assistance is available in remote areas.\n\nThe Housing Policy Branch of British Columbia's Ministry of Community, Aboriginal and Women’s Services published a guide for local governments to implement secondary suite programs called 'Secondary Suites: A Guide For Local Governments'. The current issue is dated September 2005. The intent of the guide is to \"help local governments develop and implement secondary suite programs\". It also highlights good secondary suite practices as well as providing practical information to \"elected officials, planners, community groups, homeowners, developers, and others interested in secondary suites\".\n\nIn Norway, particularly in the bigger cities, it is quite common to build separate adjoined smaller flats for renting out. The owner of the main flat will rent out the smaller adjoined flats.\n\nIn the United States, secondary suites are technically referred to as accessory dwelling units or ADUs. An ADU is second complete dwelling unit which is legally built within or on the same lot as an existing single family residence. An ADU provides complete independent living facilities including a kitchen, bathroom and its own entryway. ADUs are typically not allowed to be sold separate from the primary home and the homeowners are usually required to reside in one of the two units. State laws typically delegate planning and zoning powers to city and county governments which specify the appropriate type, distribution and intensity of land uses in the local jurisdiction. As a result, the feasibility of building an accessory dwelling unit (ADU) (also known as a secondary suite, second unit, granny cottage, etc.) can vary widely from place to place, depending on state law and each local jurisdiction's willingness to adopt regulations that facilitate ADUs.\n\nPopular in the early 20th century, ADUs fell into disfavor after WWII, when a shift to suburban development occurred with emphasis on the nuclear family. However, with increases in the price of housing in many cities and suburbs, an increased awareness of the costs of low-density car-oriented development patterns and an increased need to care for the aging baby boom generation, ADUs have been promoted by some as a beneficial option. However, some critics perceive ADUs to be a threat to the character of single-family residential neighborhoods.\n\nIn California, Government Code Sections 65852.150, 65852.2 & 65852.22 pertain to local regulation of ADUs. SB 1069 and AB 2299 are California bills approved in 2016 and effective January 1, 2017, that limit local government authority to prohibit ADUs in certain cases (and also reduce cost and bureaucracy hurdles to construction).\n\nSanta Cruz, California has an ADU program.\n\nThe County of Maui in Hawaii has an ADU program.\n\nHonolulu, Hawaii, has \"Ohana Dwelling Units,\" which although similar to ADUs, limit occupancy to \"family\" and have other regulatory requirements. Ohana Dwellings in Hawaii were created as an allowed use in the zoning code in 1981 as a way to encourage the private sector to create more housing units (without government subsidy), preserve green fields (open space) and ease housing affordability. In 2015, Honolulu amended its zoning code to add a new use—ADUs—as a sort of Ohana Dwelling, but with fewer restrictions. To prevent creating further complexities for existing Ohana Dwellings, some of which have been condominimized and owned separately from the main house, Ohana Dwellings remain an allowed use (with different requirements and benefits than ADUs) in the zoning code. Due to the poor turnout in the number of ADUs, Honolulu added incentives in 2016, waiving permit fees. Fee waivers were extended in 2017. ADUs are an important component to Honolulu's Affordable Housing Strategy.\n\nOn December 9, 2016 the Seattle Times mentioned proposed legislation to allow more and larger mother-in-law apartments and backyard cottages in neighborhoods zoned for single-family houses in Seattle.\n\n\nFor New South Wales, the two approval paths are available.\n1. If the Frontage of the land is 12m or more, a CDC (Private certifier) is possible. If less, then it must go through a DA(Council).\n2. If above condition is met, another important requirement is the land size. If your land size is 450sqm or over, we can do a CDC approval. If it is less than 450sqm, we have to lodge the secondary dwelling application through the council.\n\n"}
{"id": "4714918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4714918", "title": "Shambhani", "text": "Shambhani\n\nShabrani is the name of a Baloch tribe, found in the provinces of Balochistan and Sindh in Pakistan.\n\nThere are two distinct tribes with the name Shabrani one of which of Chandio origin The living in sindh. Members of the Chandio shabrani speak Sindhi, whereas the Magsi Shabrani speak Baloch, although they also speak Sindhi.\nMost of shabrani tribe people live in kambar district area Rais of shabrani tribe is Rais Ahmad Ali shabrani. And chief is Nawab Gaibi Sardar Ahmad chandio\n"}
{"id": "8531860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8531860", "title": "Social class in the United Kingdom", "text": "Social class in the United Kingdom\n\nThe social structure of the United Kingdom has historically been highly influenced by the concept of social class, which continues to affect British society today.\n\nBritish society, like its European neighbours and most societies in world history, was traditionally (before the Industrial Revolution) divided hierarchically within a system that involved the hereditary transmission of occupation, social status and political influence. Since the advent of industrialisation, this system has been in a constant state of revision, and new factors other than birth (for example, education) are now a greater part of creating identity in Britain.\n\nAlthough definitions of social class in the United Kingdom vary and are highly controversial, most are influenced by factors of wealth, occupation and education. Until recently the Parliament of the United Kingdom was organised on a class basis, with the House of Lords representing the hereditary upper-class and the House of Commons representing everybody else. The British monarch is usually viewed as being at the top of the social class structure.\n\nBritish society has experienced significant change since the Second World War, including an expansion of higher education and home ownership, a shift towards a service-dominated economy, mass immigration, a changing role for women and a more individualistic culture, and these changes have had a considerable impact on the social landscape. However, claims that the UK has become a classless society have frequently been met with scepticism. Research has shown that social status in the United Kingdom is influenced by, although separate from, social class.\nThe biggest current study of social class in the United Kingdom is the Great British Class Survey.\nPrior to the eighteenth century, one did not speak of class or classes. Older terms like estates, rank, and orders were predominant. This change in terminology corresponded to a general decrease in significance ascribed to hereditary characteristics, and increase in the significance of wealth and income as indicators of position in the social hierarchy.\n\nThe \"class system\" in the United Kingdom is widely studied in academia but no definition of the word \"class\" is universally agreed to. Some scholars may adopt the Marxist view of class where persons are classified by their relationship to means of production, as owners or as workers, which is the most important factor in that person's social rank. Alternatively, Max Weber developed a three-component theory of stratification under which \"a person’s power can be shown in the social order through their status, in the economic order through their class, and in the political order through their party. Besides these academic models, there are myriad popular explanations of class in Britain. In the work \"Class\", Jilly Cooper quotes a shopkeeper on the subject of bacon: \"When a woman asks for back I call her 'madam'; when she asks for streaky I call her 'dear'.\"\n\nThe United Kingdom never experienced the sudden dispossession of the estates of the nobility, which occurred in much of Europe after the French Revolution or in the early 20th century, and the British nobility, in so far as it existed as a distinct social class, integrated itself with those with new wealth derived from commercial and industrial sources more comfortably than in most of Europe. Opportunities resulting from consistent economic growth and the expanding British Empire also enabled some from much poorer backgrounds (generally men who had managed to acquire some education) to rise through the class system.\n\nThe historian David Cannadine sees the period around 1880 as a peak after which the position of the old powerful families declined rapidly, from a number of causes, reaching a nadir in the years after World War II, symbolised by the widespread destruction of country houses. However their wealth, if not their political power, has rebounded strongly since the 1980s, benefiting from greatly increased values of the land and fine art which many owned in quantity.\n\nMeanwhile, the complex British middle-classes had also been enjoying a long period of growth and increasing prosperity, and achieving political power at the national level to a degree unusual in Europe. They avoided the strict stratification of many Continental middle-classes, and formed a large and amorphous group closely connected at their edges with both the gentry and aristocracy and the labouring classes. In particular the great financial centre of the City of London was open to outsiders to an unusual degree, and continually expanding and creating new employment.\n\nThe British working class, on the other hand, was not notable in Europe for prosperity, and Early Modern British travellers often remarked on the high standard of living of the farm-workers and artisans of the Netherlands, though the peasantry in other countries such as France were remarked on as poorer than their English equivalents. Living standards certainly improved greatly over the period, more so in England than other parts of the United Kingdom, but the Industrial Revolution was marked by extremely harsh working conditions and poor housing until about the middle of the 19th century.\n\nAt the time of the formation of Great Britain in 1707, England and Scotland had similar class-based social structures. Some basic categories covering most of the British population around 1500 to 1700 are as follows.\n\nThe social grade classification created by the National Readership Survey over 50 years ago achieved widespread usage during the 20th century in marketing and government reports and statistics.\n\nThe UK Office for National Statistics (ONS) produced a new socio-economic classification in 2001. The reason was to provide a more comprehensive and detailed classification to take newer employment patterns into account.\n\nOn 2 April 2013 analysis of the results of a survey, which was conducted by the BBC in 2011 and developed in collaboration with academic experts, was published online in the journal \"Sociology\". The results released were based on a survey of 160,000 residents of the United Kingdom most of whom lived in England and described themselves as \"white.\" Class was defined and measured according to the amount and kind of economic, cultural, and social resources, \"capitals\", reported. Economic capital was defined as income and assets; cultural capital as amount and type of cultural interests and activities, and social capital as the quantity and social status of their friends, family and personal and business contacts. This theoretical framework was inspired by that of Pierre Bourdieu, who published his theory of social distinction in 1979.\n\nAnalysis of the survey revealed seven classes: a wealthy \"elite;\" a prosperous salaried \"middle class\" consisting of professionals and managers; a class of technical experts; a class of ‘new affluent’ workers, and at the lower levels of the class structure, in addition to an ageing traditional working class, a ‘precariat’ characterised by very low levels of capital, and a group of emergent service workers. The fracturing of the middle sectors of the social structure into distinguishable factions separated by generational, economic, cultural, and social characteristics was considered notable by the authors of the research.\n\nMembers of the elite class are the top 6% of British society with very high economic capital (particularly savings), high social capital, and very 'highbrow' cultural capital. Occupations such as chief executive officers, IT and telecommunications directors, marketing and sales directors; functional managers and directors, solicitors, barristers and judges, financial managers, higher education teachers, dentists, doctors and advertising and public relations directors were strongly represented. However, those in the established and 'acceptable' professions, such as academia, law and medicine are more traditional upper middle class identifiers, with IT and sales being the preserve of the economic if not social middle class.\n\nMembers of the established middle class, about 25% of British society, reported high economic capital, high status of mean social contacts, and both high highbrow and high emerging cultural capital. Well-represented occupations included electrical engineers, occupational therapists, midwives, environmental professionals, quality assurance and regulatory professionals, town planning officials, and special needs teaching professionals.\n\nThe technical middle class, about 6% of British society, shows high economic capital, very high status of social contacts, but relatively few contacts reported, and moderate cultural capital. Occupations represented include medical radiographers, aircraft pilots, pharmacists, natural and social science professionals and physical scientists, and business, research, and administrative positions.\n\nNew affluent workers, about 15% of British society, show moderately good economic capital, relatively poor status of social contacts, though highly varied, and moderate highbrow but good emerging cultural capital. Occupations include electricians and electrical fitters; postal workers; retail cashiers and checkout operatives; plumbers and heating and ventilation engineers; sales and retail assistants; housing officers; kitchen and catering assistants; quality assurance technicians.\n\nThe traditional working class, about 14% of British society, shows relatively poor economic capital, but some housing assets, few social contacts, and low highbrow and emerging cultural capital. Typical occupations include electrical and electronics technicians; care workers; cleaners; van drivers; electricians; residential, day, and domiciliary care\nThe emergent service sector, about 19% of British society, shows relatively poor economic capital, but reasonable household income, moderate social contacts, high emerging (but low highbrow) cultural capital. Typical occupations include bar staff, chefs, nursing auxiliaries and assistants, assemblers and routine operatives, care workers, elementary storage occupations, customer service occupations, and musicians.\n\nThe precariat, about 15% of British society, shows poor economic capital, and the lowest scores on every other criterion. Typical occupations include cleaners, van drivers, care workers, carpenters and joiners, caretakers, leisure and travel service occupations, shopkeepers and proprietors, and retail cashiers.\n\nThe term \"underclass\" is used to refer to those people who are \"chronically unemployed\", and in many instances have been for generations.\n\nTypical characteristics are:\n\nThere is a contention that there are homologies between the meaning context and tenor of the abusive popular word \"chav\" and the term \"underclass\" in media discourses: the obvious difference being the former relates to supposed dispositions of a social class in consumption and the later to difficulties of a social class in productive labour relations. The \"underclass\" has also been blamed for the 2011 England riots.\n\nTraditionally, these people would have worked as manual labourers. They would typically have left school as soon as legally permissible and not have been able to take part in higher education. Many would go on to work in semi-skilled and unskilled jobs on the assembly lines and machine shops of Britain's major car factories, steel mills, coal mines, foundries and textile mills in the highly industrialised cities in the West Midlands, North of England, South Wales and the Scottish Lowlands.\n\nHowever, since the mid-1970s and early-1980s, de-industrialisation has shattered many of these communities, resulting in a complete deterioration in quality of life and a reversal in rising living standards for the industrial working class. Many either dropped in status to the working poor or fell into permanent reliance on welfare dependence. Some dropped out altogether and joined the black market economy, while a limited few did manage to ascend to the lower middle-class.\n\nThe Mosaic 2010 groups where the proportion of residents in NRS social grade D was rated \"high\" in the 2010 Mosaic Index are \"Residents with sufficient incomes in right-to-buy social housing\" and \"Families in low-rise social housing with high levels of benefit need\".\n\nFictional stereotypes include: Andy Capp and Albert Steptoe, who is not only unaspirational himself; but crushes the aspirations of his son Harold.\n\nIt has been argued that with the decline in manufacturing and increase in the service sector, lower-paid office workers are effectively working-class. Call centres in particular, have sprung up in former centres of industry. However, since the early-2000s; there has been a trend for many call centres to close down in the UK and outsource their jobs to India, as part of cost-cutting measures.\n\nDuring the post-war era, White working-class Britons witnessed a big rise in their standard of living. As noted by Denys Blakeway:\n\n\"The White working-class have prospered hugely since the war. They have experienced unparalleled growth in disposable income and today they are now richer than their parents and grandparents could ever have imagined. There are shared values in White working-class culture but I think it is incredibly difficult to put your finger on exactly what it is that defines \"White working-class\" because a lot of them are shared by the middle-class, such as football and the pub.\"\n\nThis class of people would be in skilled industrial jobs or tradesmen, traditionally in the construction and manufacturing industry, but in recent decades showing entrepreneurial development as the stereotypical white van man, or self-employed contractors. These people would speak in regional accents and have completed craft apprenticeships rather than a university education. The only Mosaic 2010 group where the proportion of residents in NRS social grade C2 was rated \"high\" in the 2010 Mosaic Index is \"Residents with sufficient incomes in right-to-buy social housing\".\n\nThe British lower middle-class primarily consists of office workers. In the nineteenth century, the middle and lower middle classes were able to live in suburbs due to the development of horse-drawn omnibuses and railways. One radical Liberal politician (Charles Masterman), writing in 1909 used \"the Middle Classes\" and \"the suburbans\" synonymously. In the early twenty-first century, there were no Mosaic 2010 geodemographic groups where the proportion of residents in NRS social grade C1 was rated as \"high\" or \"low\" in the 2010 Index; it was rated as \"average\" in all Mosaic groups, whether these were of a suburban, rural, city or small-town nature.\n\nThey are typically employed in relatively unskilled service sector jobs (such as in retail sales or travel agents), or work in local government or are factory and other industrial building owners. Prior to the expansion in higher education from the 1960s onwards, members of this class generally did not have a university education.\n\nMembers of the lower middle-class typically speak in local accents, although relatively mild. Votes in this area are split and minority parties will have a stronger proportion. The comedy character Hyacinth Bucket is a satirical stereotype for this social group.\n\nThe middle-class in Britain often consists of people with tertiary education and may have been educated at either state or private schools.\n\nTypical jobs include: accountants, architects, solicitors, surveyors, social workers, teachers, managers, specialist IT workers, engineers, doctors, university-educated nurses and civil servants. Displays of conspicuous consumption are considered vulgar by them; instead they prefer to channel excess income into investments, especially property.\n\nMembers of the middle-class are often politically and socially engaged (a Mori poll in 2005 found 70% of grades AB voted at the 2005 general election compared to 54% of grades DE) and might be regular churchgoers (a YouGov poll in 2014 found 62% of those attending church at least once a month were NRS grades ABC1), might sit on local committees and governing boards or stand for political office. Education is greatly valued by the middle-classes: they will make every effort to ensure their children get offered a place at university; they may send their children to a private school, hire a home tutor for out of school hours so their child learns at a faster rate, or go to great lengths to get their children enrolled into good state or selective grammar schools; such as moving house into the catchment area.\n\nThey also value culture and make up a significant proportion of the book-buying and theatre-going public. They typically read broadsheet newspapers rather than tabloids. Politically, they are disproportionately supporters of the Liberal Democrats. The only Mosaic 2010 geodemographic type where the proportion of residents in NRS social grade B was rated as \"high\" in the 2010 index was \"People living in brand new residential developments\". The middle classes particularly of England are often popularly referred to as \"Middle England\".\n\nThe comedy character Margo Leadbetter is a satirical stereotype for this group, as is Jilly Cooper's Howard Weybridge.\n\nThe upper middle-class in Britain broadly consists of people who were born into families which have traditionally possessed high incomes, although this group is defined more by family background than by job or income. This stratum, in England, traditionally uses the Received Pronunciation dialect natively.\n\nThe upper middle-class are traditionally educated at independent schools, preferably one of the \"major\" or \"minor\" \"public schools\" which themselves often have pedigrees going back for hundreds of years and charge fees of as much as £33,000 per year per pupil (as of 2014).\n\nMany upper-middle-class families may have previous ancestry that often directly relates to the upper classes. Although not necessarily of the landowning classes – as a result, perhaps, of lack of a male heir – many families' titles/styles have not been inherited and therefore many families' past status became dissolved.\n\nAlthough such categorisations are not precise, popular contemporary examples of upper-middle-class people may include Boris Johnson, Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, David Cameron, Helena Bonham Carter, (actress), Matthew Pinsent (athlete) and Jacob Rees-Mogg.\n\nThe British \"upper-class\" is statistically very small and consists of the peerage, gentry and hereditary landowners, among others. Those in possession of a hereditary peerage (but not a life peerage; for example, a dukedom, a marquessate, an earldom, a viscounty, or a barony/Scottish lord of parliament) are typically members of the upper class.\n\nTraditionally, upper-class children were brought up at home by a nanny for the first few years of their lives, and then home schooled by private tutors. From the late-nineteenth century, it became increasingly popular for upper-class families to mimic the middle-classes in sending their children to public schools, which had been predominantly founded to serve the educational needs of the middle-class. Nowadays, when children are old enough, they may attend a prep school or pre-preparatory school. Moving into secondary education, it is still commonplace for upper-class children to attend a public school, although it is not unheard of for certain families to send their children to state schools. Continuing education goals can vary from family to family; it may, in part, be based on the educational history of the family. In the past, both the British Army and Royal Navy have been the institutions of choice. Equally, the clergy, as well as academia, particularly within the arts and humanities divisions of Britain's oldest and most prestigious universities (Oxbridge), have been traditional career paths amongst the upper class - indeed until 1840 the majority Oxbridge graduates were destined for ordination.\n\nReceived Pronunciation, also known as RP or BBC English, was a term introduced as way of defining \"standard\" English, but the accent has acquired a certain prestige from being associated with the middle (and above) classes in the South East; the wealthiest part of England. Use of RP by people from the \"regions\" outside the South East can be indicative of a certain educational background, such as public school or elocution lessons.\n\n\"The Queen's English\" was once a synonym for RP. However, the Queen and some other older members of the aristocracy are now perceived as speaking in a way that is both more old-fashioned and higher class than \"general\" RP. Phoneticians call this accent \"Conservative Received Pronunciation\". The Queen's pronunciation has, however, also changed over the years. The results of the Harrington & al. study can be interpreted either as a change, in a range not normally perceptible, in the direction of the mainstream RP of a reference corpus of 1980s newsreaders, or showing showing subtle changes that might well have been influenced by the vowels of Estuary English.\n\nBBC English was also a synonym for RP; people seeking a career in acting or broadcasting once learnt RP as a matter of course if they did not speak it already. However, the BBC and other broadcasters are now much more willing to use – indeed desire to use – regional accents.\n\nLanguage and writing style have consistently been one of the most reliable indicators of class, although pronunciation did not become such an indicator until the late-nineteenth century. The variations between the language employed by the upper classes and non-upper classes has, perhaps, been best documented by linguistic Professor Alan Ross's 1954 article on U and non-U English usage, with \"U\" representing upper and upper middle class vocabulary of the time, and \"Non-U\" representing lower middle class vocabulary. The discussion was furthered in \"Noblesse Oblige\" and featured contributions from, among others, Nancy Mitford. The debate was revisited in the mid-1970s, in a publication by Debrett's called \"U and Non-U Revisited\". Ross also contributed to this volume, and it is remarkable to notice how little the language (amongst other factors) changed in the passing of a quarter of a century.\n\nIn England, the upper class or prestige dialect is almost always a form of RP; however, some areas have their\n\"own\" prestige dialect, distinct from both RP and the working-class dialect of the region.\n\nEngland has a wide variety of regional dialects for a small country, most of which have working-class or lower middle-class connotations:\n\nAn English citizen with arms registered in the College of Arms, or a Scottish citizen in the Lyon Court, can be referred to as armigerous. Any British citizen can apply for arms from their respective authority but only those of sufficient social standing would be granted arms. Arms in and of themselves are imperfectly aligned with social status, in that many of high status will have no right to arms whilst, on the other hand, those entitled to arms by descent can include branches of families from anywhere on the social scale.\n\nNevertheless, a right to bear arms under the Law of Arms is, by definition, linked either to the personal acquisition of social status, inspiring application for a personal grant of arms, or to descent from a person who did so in the past. Rightly or wrongly, therefore, the use of a coat of arms is linked to social prestige.\n\nIn the early twentieth century, it was argued by heraldic writers such as Arthur Charles Fox-Davies that only those with a right to a coat of arms could correctly be described (if men) as gentlemen and of noble status; however, even at the time this argument was controversial, and it was rejected by other writers such as Oswald Barron and Horace Round. In the Order of Malta, where proof of technical nobility is a requirement of certain grades of membership, British members must still base their proof upon an ancestral right to a coat of arms.\n\nIn 1941, George Orwell wrote that Britain was “the most class-ridden society under the sun.”\nIn an interview in 1975 Helmut Schmidt, the then Chancellor of West Germany stated that:\n\nLater in the same interview, Schmidt noted that \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "207858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207858", "title": "Sweden Finns", "text": "Sweden Finns\n\nSweden Finns (, ) are a Finnish-speaking national minority in Sweden consisting of Finns historically residing in Sweden as well as Finnish immigrants to Sweden. Sweden-Finns should not be confused with the Swedish-speaking Finland-Swedes in Finland, who comprise a linguistic minority in Finland.\n\nPeople with Finnish heritage comprise a relatively large share of the population of Sweden. In addition to a smaller part of Sweden Finns historically residing in Sweden, there were about 426,000 people in Sweden (4.46% of the total population in 2012) who were either born in Finland or had at least one parent who was born in Finland. Like the Swedish language, the Finnish language has been spoken on both sides of the Gulf of Bothnia since the late middle ages. Following military campaigns in Finland by Sweden in the 13th century, Finland gradually came under Swedish rule and made Finns in Finland and Sweden were subjugates of Sweden. Already in the 1400s, a sizeable population of Stockholm spoke Finnish, and around 4% in the 1700s. Finland remained a part of Sweden until 1809 when the peace after the Finnish War handed Finland to the Russian Empire, though leaving Finnish populations on the Swedish side of the Torne river.\n\nIn the 1940s, 70,000 young Finnish children were evacuated from Finland. Most of them came to Sweden during the Winter War and the Continuation War, and around 20% remained after the war. Helped by the Nordic Passport Union, Finnish immigration to Sweden was considerable during the 1950s and 1960s. In 2015, Finnish immigrants to Sweden made out 156 045 persons (or 1.58% of the Swedish population) Not all of them, however, were Finnish speakers. The national minority of Sweden Finns usually does not include immigrated Swedish-speaking Finns, and the national minority of Sweden Finns is protected by Swedish laws that grant specific rights to speakers of the Finnish language. English somewhat lacks the distinction between Finns in Sweden (), which emphases nationality rather than linguistic or ethnic belonging and thereby includes all Finnish heritage regardless of language, and Sweden Finns () which emphases linguistic and ethnic belonging rather than nationality and usually excludes Swedish-speaking Finns. Such distinctions are, however, blurred by the dynamics of migration, bilingualism, and national identities in the two countries. Note that speakers of Meänkieli are singled out as a separate linguistic minority by Swedish authorities.\n\nDimensions of language, ethnicity, and origin complicate the terms dividing the populations of Finland and Sweden. In Finland, both Swedish and Finnish are official languages. The Swedish-Finns are Finnish nationals who speak Swedish. The variant of standard Swedish spoken in Finland is called Finland Swedish or Finno-Swedish, and those who speak it are Finland-Swedes. Because of the shared language, Finland-Swedes are overrepresented in the migration of Finnish nationals to Sweden. Swedish-speakers make out 5.3% of the total Finnish population, while around 20% of Finnish immigrants to Sweden were Swedish-speakers according to a 2004 estimation. Sweden-Finns, however (this article), refers rather to Finnish-speaking Finns in Sweden, since Swedish authorities connect the rights of this national minority with the usage of the Finnish language. Using a wider definition, people of Finnish origin, regardless of language, may be Sweden Finns (in the sense of Finnish nationals in Sweden). In Swedish, the term \"sverigefinländare\" includes both language-groups while \"sverigefinnar\", and the less common \"sverigefinlandssvenskar\", refers to the Finnish-speaking and Swedish-speaking groups respectively.\n\nIn addition to Finnish immigrants, the term \"Sweden Finns\" also includes Finns historically residing in Sweden. A small group of ethnic Finns with origins in Ingria in East Karelia would also be Sweden Finns on ethic and linguistic basis. After the Second World War, around 4500 refugees came to Sweden from Ingria.\n\nCommunities of Finns in Sweden can be traced back to the Reformation when the Finnish Church in Stockholm was founded in 1533, although earlier migration, and migration to other cities in present-day Sweden, remain undisputed. (Strictly speaking this was not a case of emigration/immigration but of \"internal migration\" within pre-1809 Sweden.)\n\nIn the 16th and the 17th century large groups of Savonians moved from Finland to Dalecarlia, Bergslagen and other provinces where their slash and burn cultivation was suitable. This was part of an effort of the Swedish king Gustav Vasa, and his successors, to expand agriculture to these uninhabited parts of the country which were later on known as \"Finn woods\" (\"Finnskogar\").\n\nIn the 1600s, there were plans to set up a new region Järle län that would have contained most of the skogsfinnar. It should be noted that in Sweden at this time, all legislation and official journals were also published in Finnish. Bank-notes were issued in Swedish and Finnish etc. After 1809, and the loss of the eastern part of Sweden (Finland) to Russia, the Swedish church planned a Finnish-speaking bishopric with Filipstad as seat. However, after the mid-1800s cultural imperialism and nationalism lead to new policies of assimilation and Swedification of the Finnish-speaking population. These efforts peaked from the end of the 1800s and until the 1950s. Finnish speakers remain only along the border with Finland in the far North, and as domestic migrants due to unemployment in the North. Depending on definition they are reported to number to 30,000–90,000 — that is up to 1% of Sweden's population, but the proportion of active Finnish-speakers among them has declined drastically in the last generations, and Finnish is hardly spoken among the youngsters today. Since the 1970s largely unsuccessful efforts have been made to reverse some of the effects of Swedification, notably education and public broadcasts in Finnish, to raise the status of Finnish. As a result, a written standard of the local dialect Meänkieli has been established and taught, which has given reason to critical remarks from Finland, along the line that standard Finnish would be of more use for the students.\n\nThe Finnish immigrants who moved to Sweden in the 1950s and 1960s were sometimes despised as being a very \"low-class\" people, as portrayed in the Swedish book and movie Svinalängorna. In 2009, Maria Wetterstrand, Swedish politician and then leader of the Green Party, wrote a Swedish article in Dagens Nyheter about this, and demanded that Sweden ought to give Finland an official apology. Matti Vanhanen, then Prime Minister of Finland, responded in 2011 that an apology was not needed.\n\nThe city of Eskilstuna, Södermanland, is one of the most heavily populated Sweden Finnish cities of Sweden, due to migration from Finland, during the 1950s until the 1970s, due to Eskilstuna's large number of industries. In Eskilstuna, the Finnish-speaking minority have both a private school (the only one in the city of Eskilstuna, there is no public school or teachers in Finnish at the public schools. Only the lower level is in Finnish, upper level is in Swedish) and only one magazine in Finnish. Some of the municipal administration is also available in Finnish.\nIn the Finnish mindset, the term \"Sweden Finns\" \"(ruotsinsuomalaiset)\" is first and foremost directed at these immigrants and their offspring, who at the end of the 20th century numbered almost 200,000 first-generation immigrants, and about 250,000 second-generation immigrants. Of these some 250,000 are estimated to use Finnish in their daily lives, and 100,000 remain citizens of Finland. This usage isn't quite embraced in Sweden. According to the latest research by Radio of Sweden (Sveriges Radio), there are almost 470,000 people who speak or understand Finnish or \"Meänkieli\", which is about 5.2% of the population of Sweden. \n\nIn the Swedish mindset, the term \"Sweden Finns\" historically denominated primarily the (previously) un-assimilated indigenous minority of ethnic Finns who ended up on the Swedish side of the border when Sweden was partitioned in 1809, after the Finnish War, and the Russian Grand Duchy of Finland was created. These \"Finnish-speaking Swedes\" are chiefly categorized as either Tornedalians originating at the Finnish–Swedish border in the far north, or \"skogsfinnar\" (\"forest Finns\") along the Norwegian–Swedish border in Central Sweden.\n\nIn 2011, a detailed genetic study was made in order to, among other reasons, see how similar the Sweden Finns were to the native Swedes. Each samples in the study were looked at individually, to make sure that the Swedes had full grandparental ancestry from their represented Swedish regions respectively, and the Sweden-born Finns having all of their ancestry from Finland. The Swedes who showed the closest FST distance (meaning greatest genetic similarity) to the Sweden Finns were those from East Middle Sweden and North Middle Sweden, having distances of 4.66 and 4.67. The most similar Swedes after those were the ones from Stockholm (4.81). Upper Norrland was the second most distanced (and thus one of the most dissimilar), at 5.61.\n\nThe greatest FST distance between the Swedes and the Sweden Finns was 5.63, and that accounted for the Swedes who came from the southernmost regions. The greatest FST distance within the Swedish group as a whole, for comparison, was between Southern Sweden and Upper Norrland (3.19), despite Upper Norrland being one of the most distanced Swedish groups from the Sweden Finns as well.\n\nToday, Finns are the largest immigrant group in Sweden, and Finnish is an official minority language of Sweden. The benefits of being a \"minority language\" are however limited to Finnish-speakers being able to use Finnish for some communication with local and regional authorities in a small number of communities \"(Borås, Borlänge, Botkyrka, Degerfors, Enköping, Eskilstuna, Fagersta, Finspång, Gällivare, Gävle, Göteborg, Gislaved, Hällefors, Håbo, Hallstahammar, Haninge, Haparanda, Hofors, Huddinge, Järfälla, Köping, Kalix, Karlskoga, Kiruna, Lindesberg, Ludvika, Luleå, Malmö, Mariestad, Motala, Norrköping, Nykvarn, Oxelösund, Pajala, Söderhamn, Södertälje, Sandviken, Sigtuna, Skövde, Skellefteå, Skinnskatteberg, Smedjebacken, Solna, Stockholm, Sundbyberg, Sundsvall, Surahammar, Tierp, Trelleborg, Trollhättan, Trosa, Uddevalla, Umeå, Upplands-Väsby, Uppsala, Västerås, Norrtälje, Upplands-Bro, Älvkarleby, Örebro, Örnsköldsvik, Österåker, Östhammar, Övertorneå)\" where Finnish immigrants make up a considerable share of the population, but not in the rest of Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "21775229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21775229", "title": "Tableau économique", "text": "Tableau économique\n\nThe Tableau économique () or \"Economic Table\" is an economic model first described by French economist François Quesnay in 1758, which laid the foundation of the Physiocratic school of economics.\n\nQuesnay believed that trade and industry were not sources of wealth, and instead in his 1758 manuscript \"Tableau économique\" (Economic Table) argued that agricultural surpluses, by flowing through the economy in the form of rent, wages, and purchases were the real economic movers.\nThe model Quesnay created consisted of three economic movers. The \"Proprietary\" class consisted of only landowners. The \"Productive\" class consisted of all agricultural laborers. The \"Sterile\" class is made up of artisans and merchants. The flow of production and/or cash between the three classes started with the Proprietary class because they own the land and they buy from both of the other classes. The process has these steps (consult Figure 1).\n\n\nThe Tableau shows the reason why the Physiocrats disagreed with Cantillon about exporting food. The economy produces a surplus of food, and neither the farmer nor the artisan can afford to consume more than a subsistence level of food. The landlord is assumed to be consuming at a level of satiation; therefore, he cannot consume any more. Since food cannot be stored easily, it is necessary to sell it to someone who can use it. This is where the merchant provides value.\n\nThe merchant is not a source of wealth, however. The Physiocrats believed that “neither industry nor commerce generates wealth.” A “plausible explanation is that the Physiocrats developed their theory in light of the actual situation of the French economy…” France was an absolute monarchy with the land owners constituting 6-8% of the population and owning 50% of the land. (5, p. 859) Agriculture contributes 80% of the country’s wealth, and the non-land owning segment of the population “practises a subsistence agriculture that produces the essential minimum, with virtually all income being absorbed by food requirements.” Additionally, exports consisted mostly of agricultural-based products, e.g. wine. Given the massive effect of agriculture on France’s economy, it was more likely they would develop an economic model that used it to the king’s advantage.\n\nThe Physiocrats are at the beginning of the anti-mercantilist movement. Quesnay’s argument against industry and international trade as alternatives to his doctrine is twofold. First, industry produces no gain in wealth; therefore, redirecting labor from agriculture to industry will in effect decrease the nation’s overall wealth. Additionally, population expands to fill available land and food supply; therefore, population must go down if the use of land does not produce food. Second, the basic premise of the Mercantilists is that a country must export more than it imports to gain wealth, but that assumes it has more of a tradeable resource than it needs for internal consumption. France did not have a colony with the ability to produce finished or semi-finished goods like England (e.g. India) or Holland (e.g. North America, Africa, South America). Its main colonial presence was in the Caribbean, southern North America, and southeast Asia, and like France, the colonies had agricultural-based economies. The only good which France had in enough excess to export was food; therefore, international trade based on industrial production would not yield as much wealth.\n\nQuesnay was not anti-industry, however. He was just realistic in his assessment that France was not in good position to incubate a strong industrial market. His argument was that artisans and manufacturers would come to France only in proportion to the size of the internal market for their goods. Quesnay believed “a country should concentrate on manufacturing only to the extent that the local availability of raw materials and suitable labor enabled it to have a cost advantage over its overseas competitors.” Anything above that amount should be purchased through trade.\n\nThe tableau économique is credited as the \"first precise formulation\" of interdependent systems in economics and the origin of the theory of the multiplier in economics. An analogous table is used in the theory of money creation under fractional-reserve banking by relending of deposits, leading to the money multiplier.\n\nThe wage-fund doctrine was derived from the tableau, then later rejected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1740431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1740431", "title": "Tamil calendar", "text": "Tamil calendar\n\nThe Tamil calendar is a sidereal Hindu calendar used in Tamil Nadu, India. It is also used in Puducherry, and by the Tamil population in Malaysia, Singapore, Mauritius and Sri Lanka. Tamil Nadu farmers greatly refer to this. It is used today for cultural, religious and agricultural events, with the Gregorian calendar largely used for official purposes both within and outside India. The Tamil calendar is based on the classical Hindu solar calendar also used in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Manipur, Nepal, Odisha, Rajasthan and Punjab.\n\nThere are several festivals based on the Tamil calendar. The Tamil New Year follows the \"nirayanam\" vernal equinox and generally falls on 14 April of the Gregorian year. 14 April marks the first day of the traditional Tamil calendar and this remains a public holiday in both Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka. Tropical vernal equinox fall around 22 March, and adding 23 degrees of trepidation or oscillation to it, we get the Hindu sidereal or \"Nirayana Mesha Sankranti\" (Sun's transition into \"nirayana\" Aries). Hence, the Tamil calendar begins on the same date in April which is observed by most traditional calendars of the rest of India - Assam, Bengal, Kerala, Odisha, Manipur, Karnataka, Punjab etc. This also coincides with the traditional new year in Burma, Cambodia, Laos, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh Nepal and Thailand. The 60-year cycle is also very ancient and is observed by most traditional calendars of India and China, and is related to 5 revolutions of Jupiter according to popular belief, or to 60-year orbit of \"Nakshatras\" (stars) as mentioned in Surya Siddhanta.\n\nThe traditional Tamil year starts on 14 April 2018, Kaliyuga 5120. Vikrama and Shalivahana Saka eras are also used. There are several references in early Tamil literature to the April new year. Nakkirar, Sangam period author of the \"Neṭunalvāṭai\", wrote in the third century CE that the sun travels each year from Mesha/Chitterai in mid-April through 11 successive signs of the zodiac. Kūdalūr Kizhaar in the third century CE refers to Mesha Raasi/Chitterai i.e. mid-April as the commencement of the year in the Puṟanāṉūṟu. The Tolkaapiyam is the oldest surviving Tamil grammar that divides the year into six seasons where Chitterai i.e. mid-April marks the start of the Ilavenil season or summer. The 8th century Silappadikaaram mentions the 12 Raasis or zodiac signs that correspond to the Tamil months starting with Mesha/Chitterai in mid-April. The Manimekalai alludes to this very same Hindu solar calendar as we know it today Adiyarkunalaar, an early medieval commentator or Urai-asiriyar mentions the twelve months of the Tamil calendar with particular reference to Chitterai i.e. mid-April. There were subsequent inscriptional references in Pagan, Burma dated to the 11th century CE and in Sukhothai, Thailand dated to the 14th century CE to South Indian, often Vaishnavite, courtiers who were tasked with defining the traditional calendar that began in mid-April.\n\nThe days of the Tamil Calendar relate to the celestial bodies in the solar system: Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, and Saturn, in that order. The week starts with Sunday.\n\nThis list compiles the days of the week in the Tamil calendar:\nFor Tamils, each day begins at the sun rise.\n\nThe number of days in a month varies between 29 and 32.\n\nThe following list compiles the months of the Tamil Calendar.\nNote: The Sanskrit month starts a few weeks ahead of the Tamil month since the Tamil calendar is a solar calendar while the Sanskrit calendar is a lunisolar calendar\n\nThe Tamil year, in keeping with the old Indic calendar, is divided into six seasons, each of which lasts two months:\n\nThe 60-year cycle is common to both North and South Indian traditional calendars, with the same name and sequence of years. Its earliest reference is to be found in Surya Siddhanta, which Varahamihirar (550 CE) believed to be the most accurate of the then current theories of astronomy. However, in the Surya Siddhantic list, the first year was \"Vijaya\" and not \"Prabhava\" as currently used. There are some parallels in this sexagenary cycle with the Chinese calendar. The Surya Siddhanta and other Indian classical texts on astronomy had some influence on the Chinese calendar although it merits attention that the sexagenary cycle in China is itself very old.\n\nAfter the completion of sixty years, the calendar starts a new with the first year. This corresponds to the Hindu \"century.\" The \"Vakya\" or \"Tirukannitha Panchangam\" (the traditional Tamil almanac) outlines this sequence. It is related to the position of the planets in the sky with respect to earth. It means that the two major planets Sani/Saturn (which takes 30 years to complete one cycle round the sun) and the Viyazhan/Jupiter (which takes 12 years to complete one cycle round the Sun) comes to the same position after 60 years.\n\nThe following list presents the current 60-year cycle of the Tamil calendar:\n\nThe months of the Tamil Calendar have great significance and are deeply rooted in the faith of the Tamil Hindus. Some months are considered very auspicious while a few are considered inauspicious as well. Tamil months start and end based on the Sun's shift from one Rasi to the other but the names of the months are based on the star on the start of Pournami in that month. The name of the month is some times the name of the star itself. (e.g. Chithrai is always the star on the Pournami of the Chithirai month).\n\nSome of the celebrations for each month are listed below. Dates in parentheses are not exact and usually vary by a day or two. Underneath (or beside) the months of the Hindu calendar are their Gregorian counterparts.\n\n\nThe Tamil Calendar is important in the life of Tamil-speaking people and most Festivals of Tamil Nadu are based on it. Some Festivals include Tamil New Year (also called \"Puthandu\") in mid-April, Thai Pongal, Deepavali, Panguni Uthiram, Thirukaarthigai, Aadiperukku, Navaratri etc. One day was even dedicated to a celebration of the Tamil alphabet and was called \"ezhuthu naal'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25553369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25553369", "title": "Telugus in India", "text": "Telugus in India\n\nThe Telugus (తెలుగు వారు) are dominant in the 10 districts of Telangana and 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh i.e. Adilabad, Nizamabad, Karimnagar, Medak, Warangal, Rangareddy, Nalgonda, Mahbubnagar, Khammam, Anantapur, Chittoor, Cuddapah, Kurnool, East Godavari, Guntur, West Godavari, Krishna, Nellore, Prakasam, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram.\n\nBesides these districts, the Telugus are very influential in the Madras, Coimbatore, Vellore, Hosur areas of Tamil Nadu; the Ganjam, Berhampur, Paralakhemundi, Gajapati, Jeypore areas of Orissa; the Bangalore, Bellary, Bidar, Kolar, and Chickballapur areas of Karnataka; the Kirandul and other southern areas of Chhattisgarh; the Marathwada, Vidarbha, Nagpur areas of Maharashtra; and the Kharagpur area of West Bengal.\n"}
{"id": "44163677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44163677", "title": "Walter P. Reuther Library", "text": "Walter P. Reuther Library\n\nThe Walter P. Reuther Library, Archives of Labor and Urban Affairs, located on the campus of Wayne State University in Detroit, Michigan, contains millions of primary source documents related to the labor history of the United States, urban affairs, and the Wayne State University Archives. The building is named for UAW President and Congress of Industrial Organizations President Walter Reuther.\n\nThe Walter P. Reuther Library of Labor and Urban Affairs was established at Wayne State University in 1960 to collect and preserve original documents related to the American labor movement. The library is named for early United Auto Workers organizer and president Walter Reuther. For over thirty years, the library's collections grew under the leadership of director Philip P. Mason. In 1975, a dedicated building was constructed for the library, using funds donated by the UAW and a grant from the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. Architectural firm Odell, Hewlett, and Luckenbach designed the initial construction. In 1991, the library's Leonard Woodcock Wing was completed, which added over 26,000 square feet to the building.\n\nThe Reuther Library is the home of the largest labor archives in the United States, and contains over 75,000 linear feet of archival holdings, including paper and digital manuscript material, photographic prints and negatives, oral histories, audio recordings, and motion picture recordings. The library serves as the official archival repository for the Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA), American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), the American Federation of Teachers (AFT), Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employes division of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Graphic Communication Conference of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), The National Association of Letter Carriers (NALC), The Newspaper Guild, Service Employees International Union (SEIU), United Auto Workers (UAW), and the United Farm Workers (UFW). The archives also collects material related to the Coalition of Labor Union Women, the Coalition of Black Trade Unionists, the Workers Defense League and numerous labor-related organizations, especially those active in the Detroit area.\n\nResearchers can access personal papers from labor activists and union leaders at the Reuther Library, including collections from Cesar Chavez, Jerry Wurf, Walter P. Reuther, Leonard Woodcock, James and Grace Lee Boggs, Utah Phillips, Dolores Huerta, Jessie and Martin Glaberman, Raya Dunayevskaya and many others.\n\nOral Histories document the work of union leaders and rank-and-file members. Notable oral history collections include \"Rosie the Riveter Revisited: Women and the WWII Work Experience,\" and \"Blacks in the Labor Movement.\" \n\nMany of the library's collections document the lives of working people and were not created by labor unions. Some of these include records related to the civil rights movement, predominantly during the post-World War II time period. Numerous collections also document women in the workplace, both inside labor organizations and in a broader social context. A significant number of the library's oral histories relate to women's experiences at work, and the Reuther Library also serves as the official repository for the archival collections of the Society of Women Engineers.\n\nThe Reuther Library collects material illustrating community life in metropolitan Detroit. These documents pertain to ethnic communities, art and cultural organizations, economics, race relations, activist groups, neighborhoods, and real estate development. The library contains the Jewish Community Archives, as well as the records of several community organizations, including those of , New Detroit, and the Detroit Commission on Community Relations, and many progressive organizations in the area. The library also houses papers of former Detroit politicians, including city councilman Mel Ravitz and mayors Jerome Cavanagh and Coleman Young. In addition, the archives contain the papers of notable 20th-century architect Minoru Yamasaki.\n\nThe Reuther Library houses the Wayne State University Archives, which date from the institution's founding as the Detroit Medical College in 1868. Collections relate to university development and initiatives, departmental activities, student life, and university publications such as \"The South End\". University-affiliated organizations, including the Merrill-Palmer Institute, have placed their collections in the University Archives.\n\n"}
{"id": "14842825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14842825", "title": "Xambioá", "text": "Xambioá\n\nThe Xambioá, also called the Karajá do Norte, Ixybiowa, or Iraru Mahãndu, are an indigenous people who live in Tocantins, Brazil. The size of the present-day population does not reflect what it had been up to the end of the 19th century, when the Karajá do Norte numbered some 1,350 individuals. Since that time the group went through an extremely violent process of population loss, which reduced it to just 40 people in 1959. Karajá do Norte population is slowly beginning to recover. The present Karajá do Norte population is 268 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "1585777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1585777", "title": "Youth-led media", "text": "Youth-led media\n\nYouth-led media is any effort created, planned, implemented, and reflected upon by young people in the form of media, including websites, newspapers, television shows and publications.\n\nThese efforts form the basis of an international movement born in the early 1970s in Ann Arbor, Michigan, U.S. by the publishing arm of a left-wing, teen-led organization called Youth Liberation of Ann Arbor, which existed from 1970 to 1980. One of its founders went on to form the New York City-based Youth Communication, a youth-led media program for young people in foster care. Another organization in the early movement was Children's Express, which operates programs around the world.\n\nIn the early 1990s this movement gained new expression in the United States in response to growing media bias against youth, i.e. the hyper-sensationalization of youth violence ala \"superpredators\", and continued to grow due to the \"Columbine\" shootings. The first online, teen-written newspaper, The Tattoo, began in 1994 with a promise of giving voice to teens. This movement features hundreds of individuals and organizations working across the United States to promote the roles of young people in society and in the media. Demonstrating the wide reach of youth-led media a program in Oakland, California called Youth Radio has been featured across national media outlets in the U.S., including NPR and PBS. Other examples include the Blunt Youth Radio Project, which provides an hour-long, weekly, youth-produced public affairs radio show on WMPG in Portland, Maine. A general interest magazine called \"Nang!\" is produced and distributed on a quarterly basis to 14- to 21-year-olds in London. Speak Africa is a Pan-African youth-produced multi-media communication initiative that works in print, radio, TV, the Internet and community theatre, and the Vera Project is an all-ages, non-profit youth music organization in Seattle, Washington. \"Coal Cracker\" youth-led news based in Mahanoy City, Pennsylvania, is a quarterly newspaper and website with content by young journalists from 12-18 years old.\n\nThere are currently youth-led media programs and organizations around the world, including Central and South America, Africa, Europe, and Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2546337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2546337", "title": "Yuracaré", "text": "Yuracaré\n\nYuracaré (also called Yurujare, Yurucare) are South American indigenous people living on 2,500 square kilometres along the Chapare River watershed in Cochabamba Department and Beni Department, in the Bolivian Lowlands of the Amazon Basin. The Yuracaré reside not far from Santa Cruz de la Sierra and Cochabamba, among the forests and plains near the Andes. They are among the residents of the Yuracaré Native Community Land (TCO), the Yuqui TCO, the Isiboro Sécure National Park and Indigenous Territory, the Chiman Indigenous Territory, and the Multiethnic Indigenous Territory I.\n\nThe Yuracare language is a language isolate, and is believed to be spoken in Bolivia by between 500 and 2,500 people. There are about 400 families in the Cochabamba Department and 62 Yuracare households in the Beni Department. The Yuracaré, who are one of approximately 35 Bolivian indigenous groups, traditionally bury their dead along with their bow and arrows, as it is a belief that the dead go to a place underground where game is plentiful.\n\nIndiana University's IFRI, along with the Center for the Study of Economic and Social Reality (CERES), has done research among the Yuracaré regarding the way the Yuracaré manage their forests. The organization helped the Yuracaré develop a forest management plan and receive official land titles to their territory by 1996, and in 1998 the Bolivian government officially approved the management plan. This was the first time in Bolivian history that an indigenous group was granted concessionary forest management rights. Further, the IFRI said that the natives' forest management practices increase the amount and size of fruiting trees. The Yuracaré find it important to maintain the forest because certain trees bear the fruit that is necessary in attracting the game that they hunt and of which they live off.\n\nLike other indigenous groups in Bolivia, the Yuracaré have faced major problems stemming from cultural issues in recent years. Some background: Bolivia is South America's poorest nation, and the native populations there are the most financially deprived of all. Having remained isolated over the years, authentic native traditions have still survived, while evolving under Catholic (in this case, the Jesuits of Paraguayan Reductions) and Spanish influences. The proliferation of the Spanish language has led to disconnect and even friction between native tongues and Spanish-speakers. Globalization has been a major issue, as the Yuracaré have rejected privatization that has been implemented with encouragement from the U.S., to some amount of success.\n\n\n"}
