{"id": "53764986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53764986", "title": "Adipomastia", "text": "Adipomastia\n\nAdipomastia, or lipomastia, also known colloquially as fatty breasts, is a condition defined as an excess of skin and adipose tissue in the breasts without true breast glandular tissue. It is commonly present in men with obesity, and is particularly apparent in men who have undergone massive weight loss. A related/synonymous term is pseudogynecomastia. The condition is different and should be distinguished from gynecomastia (\"women's breasts\"), which involves true glandular breast development in a male. The two conditions can usually be distinguished easily by palpation to check for the presence of glandular tissue. Another difference between the conditions is that breast pain/tenderness does not occur in pseudogynecomastia. Sometimes, gynecomastia and pseudogynecomastia are present together; this is related to the fact that fat tissue expresses aromatase, the enzyme responsible for the synthesis of estrogen, and estrogen is produced to a disproportionate extent in men with excessive amounts of fat, resulting in simultaneous glandular enlargement.\n"}
{"id": "34141047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34141047", "title": "Alcohol and cortisol", "text": "Alcohol and cortisol\n\nRecent research has looked into the effects of alcohol on the amount of cortisol that is produced in the human body. Continuous consumption of alcohol over an extended period of time has been shown to raise cortisol levels in the body. Cortisol is released during periods of high stress, and can result in the temporary shut down of other physical processes, causing physical damage to the body.\n\nCortisol is a stress hormone secreted by the adrenal gland, which makes up part of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. It is typically released at periods of high stress designed to help the individual cope with stressful situations. Cortisol secretion results in increased heart rate and blood pressure and the temporary shut down of metabolic processes such as digestion, reproduction, growth, and immunity as a means of conserving energy for the stress response. Chronic release of cortisol over extended periods of time caused by long-term high stress can result in: \n\nHigh cortisol levels have largely been associated with high alcohol consumption, which is likely due to the disregulation (impaired inhibitory control) of the HPA axis.\n\nResearch on alcohol’s effects on cortisol dates back to the 1950s. Many studies showed a relation between the two, however they were limited to short-term alcohol ingestion. The first human study to assess the long-term effects of alcohol ingestion on cortisol was conducted in 1966 (Mendelson et al.). They found heightened cortisol levels in both alcoholics and non-alcoholics while actively drinking. Cortisol was overall higher in alcoholics than non-alcoholics, indicating that alcohol has long-term effects on the endocrine system. Also, alcoholics had the highest cortisol levels after drinking stopped, demonstrating symptoms of withdrawal (a hormonal marker of alcohol addiction).\n\nRecent research supports this strong association between high alcohol use and heightened cortisol levels. In one study, overnight urinary cortisol levels were taken from people who regularly drank a large amount of alcohol versus a small amount of alcohol. People who drank more alcohol had higher cortisol levels and lower heart rate variability (which is controlled by the autonomic nervous system, ANS), suggesting a connection between the HPA axis and the ANS. People who drank more alcohol had higher blood pressure and difficulty sleeping, indicative of heightened cortisol levels.\n\nRecent technology has allowed researchers to measure cortisol levels in human hair (showing cumulative cortisol exposure over extended periods of time). This method of measurement has been used to compare long-term cortisol levels in alcoholics, abstinent alcoholics, and non-alcoholics. One recent study revealed that alcoholics had three to four times higher hair cortisol concentrations than abstinent alcoholics or non-alcoholics (consistent with previous research showing periods of alcohol consumption are associated with heightened cortisol levels). Abstinent alcoholics and non-alcoholics had the same low levels of cortisol, suggesting that cortisol levels eventually return to normal after extended cessation.\n"}
{"id": "57731928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57731928", "title": "Andrew Johnston (surgeon)", "text": "Andrew Johnston (surgeon)\n\nAndrew Johnston (1770 - 28 August 1833) was the president of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI) in 1817.\n\n"}
{"id": "692141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=692141", "title": "Anovulation", "text": "Anovulation\n\nAnovulation is when the ovaries do not release an oocyte during a menstrual cycle. Therefore, ovulation does not take place. However, a woman who does not ovulate at each menstrual cycle is not necessarily going through menopause. Chronic anovulation is a common cause of infertility.\n\nIn addition to the alteration of menstrual periods and infertility, chronic anovulation can cause or exacerbate other long term problems, such as hyperandrogenism or osteopenia. It plays a central role in the multiple imbalances and dysfunctions of polycystic ovary syndrome.\n\nDuring the first two years after menarche 50% of the menstrual cycles could be anovulatories.\n\nIt is in fact possible to restore ovulation using appropriate medication, and ovulation is successfully restored in approximately 90% of cases. The first step is the diagnosis of anovulation. The identification of anovulation is not easy; contrary to what is commonly believed, women undergoing anovulation still have (more or less) regular periods. In general, patients only notice that there is a problem once they have started trying to conceive.\n\nTemperature charting is a useful way of providing early clues about anovulation, and can help gynaecologists in their diagnosis.\n\nThe World Health Organization criteria for classification of anovulation include the determination of oligomenorrhea (menstrual cycle >35 days) or amenorrea (menstrual cycle > 6 months) in combination with concentration of prolactin, follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and estradiol (E2). The patients are classified as WHO1 (15%) - hypo-gonadotropic, hypo-estrogenic, WHO2 (80%) - normo-gonadotropic, normo-estrogenic, and WHO3 (5%) - hyper-gonadotropic, hypo-estrogenic. The vast majority of anovulation patients belong to the WHO2 group and demonstrate very heterogeneous symptoms ranging from anovulation, obesity, biochemical or clinical hyperandrogenism and insulin resistance.\n\nThis is the most common cause of anovulation and is thought to account for about 70% of all cases. About half the women with hormonal imbalances do not produce enough follicles to ensure the development of an ovule, possibly due to poor hormonal secretions from the pituitary gland or the hypothalamus. The pituitary gland controls most other hormonal glands in the human body. Therefore, any pituitary malfunctioning affects other glands under its influence, including the ovaries. This occurs in around 10% of cases. The mammary glands are also controlled by the pituitary gland, so lactation can also be affected. The pituitary gland is controlled by the hypothalamus. In 10% of cases, alterations in the chemical signals from the hypothalamus can easily seriously affect the ovaries.\n\nThere are other hormonal anomalies with no direct link to the ones mentioned above that can affect ovulation. For instance, women with hyper or hypo-thyroidism sometimes have ovulation problems. Thyroid dysfunction can halt ovulation by upsetting the balance of the body’s natural reproductive hormones. Polycystic ovary syndrome (also known as Stein-Leventhal syndrome) and hyperprolactinemia can also cause anovulatory cycles through hormonal imbalances.\n\nThis accounts for around 10-15% of all cases of anovulation. The ovaries can stop working in about 5% of cases. This may be because the ovaries do not contain eggs. However, a complete blockage of the ovaries is rarely a cause of infertility. Blocked ovaries can start functioning again without a clear medical explanation. In some cases, the egg may have matured properly, but the follicle may have failed to burst (or the follicle may have burst without releasing the egg). This is called luteinised unruptured follicle syndrome (LUFS). Physical damage to the ovaries, or ovaries with multiple cysts, may affect their ability to function. This is called ovarian dystrophy. Patients who are suffering from Stein-Leventhal syndrome (also referred to as polycystic ovary syndrome, or PCOS) can also suffer from anovulation. Up to 90% of cases of anovulation are caused by PCOS; this syndrome is usually hereditary.\n\nWeight loss or anorexia can also cause hormonal imbalance, leading to irregular ovulation (dysovulation). It is possible that this mechanism evolved to protect the mother’s health. A pregnancy where the mother is weak could pose a risk to the baby’s and mother’s health. On the other hand, excess weight can also create ovarian dysfunctions. Dr Barbieri of Harvard Medical School has indicated that cases of anovulation are quite frequent in women with a BMI (body mass index) over 27 /. Unfortunately, not only does excess weight have a negative impact on ovulation itself, but also on treatment efficacy and outcomes of ART (assisted reproductive technique).\n\nAnovulation is usually associated with specific symptoms. However, it is important to note that they are not necessarily all displayed simultaneously. Amenorrhea (absence of menstruation) occurs in about 20% of women with ovulatory dysfunction. Infrequent and light menstruation occurs in about 40% of women with ovulatory dysfunction. Another potential symptom is irregular menstruation, where five or more menstrual cycles a year are five or more days shorter or longer than the length of the average cycle. Absence of mastodynia (breast pain or tenderness) occurs in about 20% of women with ovulatory problems. Also possible is increased body mass and facial hair, which is relatively easy to treat, and is often associated with PCOS, or polycystic ovary syndrome.\n\nSymptoms-based methods of fertility awareness may be used to detect ovulation or to determine that cycles are anovulatory. Charting of the menstrual cycle may be done by hand, or with the aid of various fertility monitors. Records of one of the primary fertility awareness signs—basal body temperature—can detect ovulation by identifying the shift in temperature which takes place after ovulation. It is said to be the most reliable way of confirming whether ovulation has occurred.\n\nWomen may also use ovulation predictor kits (OPKs) which detect the increase in luteinizing hormone (LH) levels that usually indicates imminent ovulation. For some women, these devices do not detect the LH surge, or high levels of LH are a poor predictor of ovulation; this is particularly common in women with PCOS. In such cases, OPKs and those fertility monitors which are based on LH may show false results, with an increased number of false positives or false negatives. Dr Freundl from the University of Heidelberg suggests that tests which use LH as a reference often lack sensitivity and specificity.\n\nThe treatment of anovulation is termed ovulation induction and is usually quite efficient. The main treatments are clomifene citrate and gonadotropins.\n\nClomifene citrate (or clomid) is the medication which is most commonly used to treat anovulation. It is a selective estrogen-receptor modulator, affecting the hypothalamic–pituitary–gonadal axis to respond as if there was an estrogen deficit in the body, in effect increasing the production of gonadotrophins. It is relatively easy and convenient to use. Clomifene appears to inhibit estrogen receptors in hypothalamus, thereby inhibiting negative feedback of estrogen on gonadotrophin production. It may also result in direct stimulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. It also has an effect on cervical mucus quality and uterine mucosa, which might affect sperm penetration and survival, hence its early administration during the menstrual cycle. Clomifene citrate is a very efficient ovulation inductor, and has a success rate of 67%. Nevertheless, it only has a 37% success rate in inducing pregnancy. This difference may be due to the anti-estrogenic effect which clomifene citrate has on the endometrium, cervical mucus, uterine blood flow, as well as the resulting decrease in the motility of the fallopian tubes and the maturation of the oocytes.\n\nThe standard dosage for first-time takers is 50 or 100 mg of clomifene per day for five consecutive days, starting early in the menstrual cycle, usually on the third to fifth day counting from the beginning of the menstrual period. In case of amenorrhea, a period can be induced by intake of an oral progestin for 10 days. In absence of success, the dosage can be increased in subsequent cycles with increments of 50 mg. However, at a dosage of 200 mg, further increments are unlikely to increase pregnancy chances.\n\nLetrozole has been used for ovarian stimulation by fertility doctors since 2001 because it has fewer side-effects than clomiphene and less chance of multiple gestation. A study of 150 babies following treatment with letrozole or letrozole and gonadotropins presented at the American Society of Reproductive Medicine 2005 Conference found no difference in overall abnormalities but did find a significantly higher rate of locomotor and cardiac abnormalities among the group having taken letrozole compared to natural conception. A larger, follow-up study with 911 babies compared those born following treatment with letrozole to those born following treatment with clomiphene. That study also found no significant difference in the rate of overall abnormalities, but found that congenital cardiac anomalies was significantly higher in the clomiphene group compared to the letrozole group. Despite this, India banned the usage of letrozole in 2011, citing potential risks to infants. In 2012, an Indian parliamentary committee said that the drug controller office colluded with letrozole's makers to approve the drug for infertility in India and also stated that letrozole's use for infertility was illegal worldwide; however, such off-label uses are legal in many countries such as the US and UK.\n\nHuman chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is a molecule which is structurally similar to luteinizing hormone (LH). LH is secreted by the pituitary just before ovulation occurs, whereas hCG is released during pregnancy. On its own, hCG is not very effective in inducing ovulation, but when combined with clomifene citrate, it is much more effective. The results associated with this method have been described as \"quite encouraging\". HCG should only be administered at certain points in the cycle, around the time of ovulation, and only if the infertility diagnostic has indicated that the problem is related to the release of the egg.\n\nHuman menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) is a very powerful treatment for infertility. It consists of a combination of LH and FSH. From menopause onwards, the body starts secreting LH and FSH in large quantities due to the slowing down of the ovarian function. This excess of hormones is not used by the body and is expelled in the urine. HMG is therefore collected from the urine of menopausal women. The urine then undergoes purification and a chemical treatment. The resulting hMG induces the stimulation of several ovarian follicles. This increases the risk of producing several oocytes during the same cycle, and thus the risk of multiple pregnancies.\n\nFollicle-stimulating hormone (FSH or recombinant FSH) is now used as a replacement for hMG. Although hMG is a combination of FSH and LH, FSH is the only active component that has an effect on ovulation. However, until recently, it was not possible to produce pure FSH. FSH is now administered in a similar way as hMG, at a specific point during the cycle, and it requires medical monitoring. It is therefore important to fully understand a woman’s cycle, and to be able to accurately anticipate menstruation and ovulation dates. FSH is also sometimes useful for women who are suffering from PCOS.\n\nThe gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) pump is used to release doses of GnRH in a pulsatile fashion. This hormone is synthesised by the hypothalamus and induces the secretion of LH and FSH by the pituitary. GnRH must be delivered in a pulsatile fashion to imitate the random secretion of the hypothalamus in order to fool the pituitary into secreting LH and FSH. The GnRH pump is the size of a cigarette box and has a small catheter. Unlike other treatments, using the GnRH pump doesn’t usually lead to multiple pregnancies. Filicori from the University of Bologna suggests that this might be because gonadotrophins are absent when the treatment is initiated, and therefore the hormones released by the pituitary (LH and FSH) can still take part in the retro-control of gonadotrophin secretion, mimicking the natural cycle. This treatment can also be used for underweight and/or anorexic patients; it has also been used in certain cases of hyperprolactimenia.\n\nTamoxifen affects estrogen receptors in a similar fashion as clomifene citrate. It is often used in the prevention and treatment of breast cancer. It can therefore also be used to treat patients that have a reaction to clomifene citrate.\n\nBromocriptine acts in a completely different manner to the other treatments mentioned above. It does not induce ovulation, but reduces the production of prolactin by the pituitary. Bromocriptine is only prescribed in cases of overproduction of prolactin (hyperprolactinemia).\n\nCorticosteroids (usually found in anti-inflammatory drugs) can be used to treat anovulation if it is caused by an overproduction of male hormones by the adrenal glands. Corticosteroids are usually used to reduce the production of testosterone.\n\nSeveral studies indicate that in some cases, a simple \"change in lifestyle\" could help patients suffering from anovulation. Consulting a nutritionist, for example, could help a young woman suffering from anorexia to put on some weight, which might restart her menstrual cycle. Conversely, a young overweight woman who manages to lose weight could also relieve the problem of anovulation (losing just 5% of body mass could be enough to restart ovulation). However, it is widely acknowledged by doctors that it is usually very difficult for PCOS patients to lose weight.\n\nPreviously, metformin was recommended as treatment for anovulation in polycystic ovary syndrome, but in the largest trial to date, comparing clomiphene with metformin, clomiphene was more effective than metformin alone. Following this study, the ESHRE/ASRM-sponsored Consensus workshop do not recommend metformin for ovulation stimulation. Subsequent randomized studies have confirmed the lack of evidence for adding metformin to clomiphene.\n\nThe European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE) notes that the aim of ovulation induction should be mono-ovulation and not over-stimulation of the ovaries . The risks associated with multiple pregnancy are much higher than singleton pregnancy; incidences of perinatal death are seven times higher in triplet births and five times higher in twin births than the risks associated with a singleton pregnancy. It is therefore important to adapt the treatment to each individual patient.\n\nWomen with polycystic ovary syndrome may be particularly at risk. Multiple pregnancy occurs in approximately 15-20% of cases following cycles induced with gonadotrophins such as hMG and FSH induced ovulations.\n\nDuring ovulation induction, it is recommended to start at a low dose and monitor the ovarian response with vaginal ultrasound, including discernment of the number of developing follicles. A cycle with supernumerary follicles is usually defined as one where there are more than two follicles >16 mm in diameter. It is generally recommended to have such cycles cancelled because of the risk of multiple pregnancy. In cancelled cycles, the woman or couple should be warned of the risks in case of supernumerary follicles, and should avoid sexual intercourse or use contraception until the next menstruation. Induction of final maturation (such as done with hCG) may need to be withheld because of increased risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome(OHSS). The starting dose of the inducing drug should be reduced in the next cycle.\n\nAlternatives to cancelling a cycle are mainly:\n\nFor most women, alteration of menstrual periods is the principal indication of chronic anovulation. Ovulatory menstrual periods tend to be regular and predictable in terms of cycle length, duration and heaviness of bleeding, and other symptoms. Ovulatory periods are often accompanied by midcycle symptoms such as mittelschmerz or premenstrual symptoms. In contrast, anovulation usually manifests itself as irregularity of menstrual periods, that is, unpredictable variability of intervals, duration, or bleeding. Anovulation can also cause cessation of periods (secondary amenorrhea) or excessive bleeding (dysfunctional uterine bleeding). Mittelschmerz and premenstrual symptoms tend to be absent or reduced when a woman is anovulatory.\n"}
{"id": "32542421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32542421", "title": "Avalon University School of Medicine", "text": "Avalon University School of Medicine\n\nAvalon University School of Medicine (AUSOM) (previously Xavier University School of Medicine in Bonaire) is a private medical school located in Willemstad, Curaçao, in the Caribbean. AUSOM confers upon its graduates the Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree. Administrative offices for the university are located in Youngstown, Ohio.\n\nAUSOM was founded in 2003 in Bonaire in the Netherlands Antilles (now known as the Caribbean Netherlands) as the Xavier University School of Medicine. In 2010, the university relocated to Curacao and changed its name to Avalon University School of Medicine to differentiate itself from another university with the same name.\n\nThe curriculum for the Doctor of Medicine degree spans four years. First- and second-year students study basic science courses on the Curacao campus. Third-year students attend an 8-week course at the admissions office in Youngstown, Ohio for orientation in clinical studies, preparation for the USMLE Step 1 examination and an overview of US residency application. Students who pass the USMLE exam spend the final 18 months in clinical clerkships in the United States, including 24 weeks of elective clerkships for fourth-year students.\n\nAvalon University School of Medicine states that it is chartered by the Ministry of Education of Curacao to offer an MD degree. AUSOM is listed in the FAIMER International Medical Education Directory (IMED) and in the AVICENNA Directory for medicine.\n\nAUSOM has also submitted a request for accreditation by the Caribbean Accreditation Authority for Education in Medicine and other Health Professions. As of August 7, 2015, Avalon University School of Medicine is NOT accredited by the CAAM-HP.\n\n"}
{"id": "50792872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50792872", "title": "Bartholin gland carcinoma", "text": "Bartholin gland carcinoma\n\nBartholin gland carcinoma is an uncommon type of malignancy in the Bartholin gland that accounts for 1% of all vulvar malignant neoplasms. It is most common in women in their mid-60s. The tumor can become large before a woman is aware of symptoms. One of the first symptoms can be dyspareunia. In other instances a woman may find a mass or ulcer in the vulva area. Many clinicians assume that an enlarged Bartholin gland is malignant in postmenopausal woman until proven otherwise. The growth of the tumor can spread to nearby areas such as the ischiorectal fossa and inguinal lymph nodes. Approximately 50% of bartholin gland carcinomas originate from squamous cell carcinomas. Another uncommon characteristic of Bartholin gland malignancies is that the growth of a lesion originates from the three types of epithelial tissue present in the gland: mucinous, transitional, and squamous.\n\nBartholin gland can be differentiated by histology to determine whether the malignancy is due to squamous cell carcinoma, adenoid cystic carcinoma, or adenocarcinomas. \n\nThough Bartholin gland carcinoma is rare, along with other unusual Bartholin gland growths, it many not be the typical practice for clinicians to consider lesions malignant. Early diagnosis can help to prevent the cancer from the glands to surrounding. Though malignancies of the Bartholin gland are rare clinicians biopsy Bartholin gland lesions in older women or when the growth reoccurs or does not respond to original treatment.\n\nThe prognosis is optimistic as long as the growth has not metastasized to the lymph nodes.\nBartholin glands were described in cattle by Casper Barthlin in 1677. Their existence in humans was postulated at that time. \n\nTreatment can be a vulvectomy that results in the removal of the growth along with an extensive removal of adjacent tissue. An inguinal lymphadenectomy often accompanies the vulvectomy. The tissue that is removed sometimes includes sections of the vagina and rectum.\n\nThe Adenoid cystic carcinoma of the Bartholin gland is another uncommon malignancy with symptoms that include local painful intermittent recurrences. The disease is slow to progress but it can result in lung cancer after a long time after the initial treatment. Treatment consists of surgical removal of the growth. Sometimes radiation and chemotherapy is performed.\n\n"}
{"id": "30227128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30227128", "title": "Biological Research Centre (Hungarian Academy of Sciences)", "text": "Biological Research Centre (Hungarian Academy of Sciences)\n\nThe Biological Research Centre (BRC) of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences () is located in Szeged, Hungary. The research center was founded in 1971, created by Brunó F. Straub, who was director until 1977. As of 2018, the director is Ferenc Nagy. The four institutes of the BRC employ about 260 scientists, whose work is used in international scientific publications and patents. Research topics include several fields of molecular and cell biology: from the industrial use of bacteria, through controlled improvement of cultivated plants, to human health and environmental protection. The BRC is primarily a scientific research centre; however, scientists at the BRC play a role in the foundation and promotion of biotechnological companies and education. The activities and scientific research pursued at the BRC have been acknowledged by the European Molecular Biology Organization (EMBO); in 2000, the BRC was awarded the title of \"Centre of Excellence of the European Union\" by the EU.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23970921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23970921", "title": "Camilla Benbow", "text": "Camilla Benbow\n\nCamilla Persson Benbow is an American educational psychologist and a university professor. She studies the education of intellectually gifted students.\n\nCamilla Benbow is the Patricia and Rodes Hart Dean of Education and Human Development at Vanderbilt University's Peabody College. She is an educational psychologist who has focused on education of intellectually gifted young people. Benbow is co-director (with David Lubinski) of the Study of Mathematically Precocious Youth (SMPY), a longitudinal study that examines the development of over 5,000 individuals over their life-spans. Her interests focus on identifying education that is most effective to developing intellectual talent in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.\n\nBenbow received her undergraduate and graduate education at Johns Hopkins University, including the Ed.D., with distinction, in 1981. She became associate research scientist at Johns Hopkins University in 1981. In 1986, Iowa State University appointed her Associate Professor of Psychology promoting her rapidly to full professor in 1990, department chair in 1992, and Distinguished Professor in 1995. She was appointed Interim Dean of Education at Iowa State in 1996. At Iowa State she also directed the pre-collegiate programs for talented and gifted students.\n\nBenbow is a Fellow of the American Psychological Association and the American Psychological Society, has received a distinguished scholar award from the National Association for Gifted Children, and in 2004 the Lifetime Achievement Award of the Mensa Education and Research Foundation. In May 2006, she was appointed to the National Mathematics Advisory Panel. She has also served on the National Science Board, which oversees the National Science Foundation.\n\nBenbow has interpreted some of her study data to indicate that there are innate differences between young men and women in their aptitude for higher mathematics and fields of endeavor that depend on mathematics, such as engineering and physical sciences. These positions have been met with some controversy from women's groups.\n\nBenbow has edited, authored or co-authored 2 books, several book chapters, reviews and over 100 articles in academic journals.\n\n"}
{"id": "56846920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56846920", "title": "Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids", "text": "Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids\n\nThe Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids is an American non-profit membership organization that advocates in favor of reducing tobacco consumption. It has been called \"a leading anti-tobacco organization\" by \"the New York Times\".\nIt was established in September 1995, with Bill Novelli as its first president. Novelli resigned from the organization in 1999 to work at the AARP. On January 1, 2000, Novelli was replaced by Matthew Myers, who has been the organization's president ever since. Organizations that helped to found the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids included the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the American Cancer Society, and the American Heart Association, among others.\n"}
{"id": "14314880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14314880", "title": "Choluria", "text": "Choluria\n\nCholuria is the presence of bile in urine. Choluria is a common symptom of liver diseases, such as hepatitis and cirrhosis. It can be described as dark or brown urine, often referred to as the color of Coca-Cola. Choluria is usually manifested when serum bilirubin is higher than 1.5 mg/dL.\nThe presence of choluria is a useful symptom to distinguish if somebody presenting with jaundice has liver disease (direct hyperbilirubinemia) or hemolysis (indirect hyperbilirubinemia). In the first case, patients have choluria due to excess conjugated (\"direct\") bilirubin in blood, which is eliminated by kidneys. Hemolysis, on the contrary, is characterized by unconjugated (\"indirect\") bilirubin which is bound to albumin and thus not eliminated in urine.\n\n"}
{"id": "51138104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51138104", "title": "Dangerous Drugs Act 1952", "text": "Dangerous Drugs Act 1952\n\nThe Dangerous Drugs Act 1952 (), is a Malaysian law which was enacted to make further and better provision for the regulation of the importation, exportation, manufacture, sale, and use of opium and certain other dangerous drugs and substances, to make special provision relating to the jurisdiction of courts in respect of offences thereunder and their trial, and for purposes connected therewith.\n\nThe Dangerous Drugs Act 1952, in its current form (1 January 2006), consists of 6 Parts containing 50 sections and 3 schedules (including 47 amendments).\n\nhttp://kl98.thecgf.com/athletes/drugs.html \n"}
{"id": "21771772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21771772", "title": "Dicephalic parapagus twins", "text": "Dicephalic parapagus twins\n\nDicephalic parapagus \\ dī-ˈsef-ə-lək \\ is a rare form of partial twinning where there are two heads side by side on one torso. Infants conjoined this way are sometimes called \"two-headed babies\" in popular media. The condition is also called parapagus dicephalus.\n\nIf carried to term, most dicephalic twins are stillborn, or die soon after birth. A small number are known to have survived to adulthood.\n\nThe extent to which limbs and organs are duplicated varies from case to case. One head may be only partially developed (anencephalic), or both may be complete. In some cases, two complete hearts are present as well, which improves their chances of survival. The total number of arms may be two, three or four.\n\nTheir prospects are best if no attempt is made to separate them, except in cases where one twin is clearly dying.\n\nDicephalus means two-headed. Parapagus means joined side by side.\n\nDicephalic twins are called:\n\n\nConjoined twins appear in one in 50,000 to one in 100,000 births. Dicephalic twins represent about 11 percent of all conjoined twins.\n\nAs late as the 1960s, some medical publications argued that newborn dicephalic twins should not be actively treated or resuscitated. An attempt at surgical separation was reported in a paper published in 1982, but did not result in long-term survival of either twin. In more recent cases in Turkey and Minnesota, doctors advised that separation surgery would not be appropriate.\n\nGiacomo and Giovanni Battista Tocci (1877–1940), were Italian male dicephalus parapagus twins who survived to adulthood. Each had his own pair of arms. They had two legs altogether, one of which was controlled by each twin. They were exhibited in freak shows as children and teenagers. The Toccis learned to speak several languages, but never learned to walk.\n\nAbby and Brittany Hensel, born in Minnesota in 1990, are another instance of dicephalus parapagus twins who grew up. They were born with two functional arms, plus a vestigial third arm, which was surgically removed. Each twin has her own complete head, heart and spine, and controls one arm and one leg. They learned to walk around the same age as average children, went on to attend school, learn to drive, play sports, and completed courses at college. \n\nTwin girls conjoined like the Tocci brothers, with four arms and two legs altogether, were born in Turkey in 2000. As with the Toccis and the Hensels, it was found that each twin controlled one leg. Because of the size of their upper body, the Turkish twins needed a special program of exercises before they could learn to walk. After that, they learned to run and climb stairs without further specialist help, and at age 11 they were going to school with other children.\n\n"}
{"id": "38931273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38931273", "title": "Disability culture", "text": "Disability culture\n\nDisability culture is a widely used concept developed in the late 1980s to capture differences in lifestyle that are caused or promoted by disability. Disability cultures exist as communities of people around topics of disability. The cultures include arts movements, coalitions, and include but are not limited to: poetry, dance, performance pieces, installments, and sculptures. Steven Brown, in an academic study, wrote, \"The existence of a disability culture is a relatively new and contested idea. Not surprising, perhaps, for a group that has long been described with terms like 'in-valid', 'impaired', 'limited', 'crippled', and so forth. Scholars would be hard-pressed to discover terms of hope, endearment or ability associated with people with disabilities.\"\n\nDisability culture cannot be defined by one specific description or language. It is a complex blending of art, performance, expression, and community. Within this culture, the word \"disabled\" has been re-purposed to represent a social identity of empowerment and awareness. Like many civil rights movements in the past, disability culture challenges the norms of society, and seeks to counter oppressive entities such as medicalization and institutionalization. Its core values as a culture are reflected in art, conversation, goals, or behaviors. These core values often include: \"an acceptance of human differences, an acceptance of human vulnerability and interdependence, a tolerance for a lack of resolution of the unpredictable in life, and a humor to laugh at the oppressor or situation, however dire it may be\".\n\n\"The elements of our culture include, certainly, our longstanding social oppression, but also our emerging art and humor, our piecing together of our history, our evolving language and symbols, our remarkably unified world view, beliefs and values, and our strategies for surviving and thriving.\" -Carol Gill Ph.D.\n\nDisability culture is a trajectory, a movement, a path, rather than a destination: \"Disability culture is the difference between being alone, isolated, and individuated with a physical, cognitive, emotional or sensory difference that in our society invites discrimination and reinforces that isolation – the difference between all that and being in community. Naming oneself part of a larger group, a social movement or a subject position in modernity can help to focus energy, and to understand that solidarity can be found – precariously, in improvisation, always on the verge of collapse.\" - Petra Kuppers \n\n\"Disability culture, which values interdependence over the illusion of independence, privileges not a uniform perspective but the validity and value of a wide range of ways of moving through the world - and the varied perspectives those different experiences engender.\" - Jim Ferris\n\n"}
{"id": "54982911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54982911", "title": "Disability in Zimbabwe", "text": "Disability in Zimbabwe\n\nDisability affects many people living in Zimbabwe. Disabled people are one of the most marginalised, excluded and poorest groups in Zimbabwean society. People with disabilities in Zimbabwe are treated as second-class citizens. It is estimated about 900 000–1.4 million people have some sort of disability in Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe is a State Party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNCRPD).\n\nIt is estimated that disability in Zimbabwe is 7% out of the total population which prevails in Zimbabwe. Disability exists in Zimbabwe mainly due to diseases,war conflicts,malnutrition,accidents,abnormal births,hereditary characteristics etc.\n\nA large population of individuals with disabilities are children and young people. About 53% of people living with disability population in Zimbabwe became disabled before the age of 20 years. Around 27% of disability with population from the birth while 9% disability exists between the ages limit of 1–5.\n\nThe disability population of males is estimated approximately about 56% while the disability population of women is around 44% as of 2013.\n\nAbout 600 000 children live with disabilities in Zimbabwe according to the Department of International Development Zimbabwe as of 2013.\n\nAround 52% of the disabled children in Zimbabwe have no access to education although Zimbabwe having a record of 93% literacy rate among its school-going children, which is also the best in the African continent.\nOn the other hand,it was evident that about 34% of disabled women didn't attend the school while 22% of disabled men didn't attend the school.\n\nIn Zimbabwe,children with disabilities live under especially difficult,challengeable circumstances and are vulnerable as they live with negative attitudes,beliefs,customs, etc.\n\nAccording to statistics, around 83% of women have been unemployed who have disabilities while about 74% of disabled men population have been unemployed.\n\nIt is a common perception within Zimbabwe that disabled people are passive,inactive,economically inactive and unproductive and therefore constitute a \"burden\" upon the society.\n\nZimbabwe was one of the first countries in the world to enact disability discrimination legislation.\n\nZimbabwe ratified the CRPD and its Optional Protocol on 23 September 2013, thereby becoming the 135th state party to ratify the Convention and its protocol.Zimbabwe is the State Party to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and to the Rights of the Child.\n\nThe Disabled Persons Act is the primary law that addresses disability in Zimbabwe.This act provides for welfare and rehabilitation of PWDs.\n\nThe mental health provides for the consolation and amendment of the law relating to the care, detention and aftercare of persons with mental disabilities for the purpose of treatment.\n\nMany disabled individuals are unable to access health care due to the limited number of clinics and the distances they need to travel in order to get to a doctor. Some public transport providers force wheelchair users to pay extra to ride.\n\nThere are a few organisations in Zimbabwe which represent and advocate for disabled people. They are\n\nZimbabwe has been competing at the Paralympic Games since independence in 1980; it had previously competed as Rhodesia at the 1972 Summer Paralympics. Zimbabwe was absent from the Games in 1988 and 1992, returning in 1996 with a two-man delegation, and has competed at every edition of the Summer Paralympics since then. It has never entered the Winter Paralympics.\n\nZimbabwe competed at the Deaflympics only once with making their debut at the 1993 Summer Deaflympics. The delegation consisted only 2 athletes from Zimbabwe to take part in its maiden Deaflympic appearance. Zimbabwe has never won a medal at the Deaflympics.\n"}
{"id": "45473546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45473546", "title": "Disaster Social Work", "text": "Disaster Social Work\n\nDisaster social work is the practice of social work during natural disasters. This field specializes in strengthening individuals and communities in the wake of a natural disaster. It includes working with the most vulnerable members of a community while strengthening the community as a whole in order to help with the recovery process.\n\nFor a disaster to be classified as natural, it must be caused by a force of nature and result in great damage or loss of life. Examples of natural disasters are floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunami, avalanches, and tornadoes.\n\nAccording to the American Red Cross, “Across the duration of a disaster, four stages have been identified that provide chronological targets for social work responses:\n\n(1) Pre-impact, beginning when a disaster poses no immediate threat but prompts mitigation and preparedness activities\n\n(2) Impact, or the period when the disaster event takes place\n\n(3) Post-impact, or the period immediately after the impact up to the beginning of recovery\n\n(4) Recovery, or the period in which disaster survivors are working toward restoration of their pre-disaster state.”\n\nThese four stages are the main targets social workers want to address when dealing with a natural disaster. These targets aim to help with the recovery process.\n\nIn the context of disasters, social work should be a process that includes helping the emotionally and physically wounded while strengthening local communities. It is important to focus on development issues in addition to the disaster. Community organizers should be supportive facilitators helping the community members return to their lives before the trauma. Along with psychological help, social workers aim to help the public regain structure to their homes. Rather than taking over the process, their objective is to help the community accomplish these goals on their own. The idea behind this is that community members should be the ones to restore their lives in order to heal psychologically and come to terms with the disaster that has occurred. Social workers must also have knowledge of the systems and institutions in the community in order to work within and against them as necessary. \n\nIn addition to these community organizing skills, social workers should also incorporate clinical and research skills. These skills should include the ability to assess emergent community needs, so that they can quickly assess the public health needs of individual community members immediately following a disaster, and make a plan accordingly. These kinds of assessments help social workers plan and organize their responses.Social workers also need to formulate their approaches in a way that increases the self-determination of disaster survivors. Disaster survivors are in a vulnerable position, so it is important for social workers to ensure the survivors can maintain agency over their lives and not become disempowered by the expertise of the social worker.\n\nBeing prepared for disasters is yet another important role for social workers. They are there to help lessen the harmful effects of disasters. All communities should be prepared for natural disasters because nobody is immune to them. Social workers can help communities be prepared by emphasizing community collaboration and coordination of social networks to make a comprehensive plan before a disaster strikes.\n\nAcross the board, the policies and national governmental bodies responsible for disaster management have been regarded as “unclear, poorly explained, too rigid, and required a high level of middle-class financial management skills to comply with eligibility requirements.”\n\nAn emergency system in need of significant improvement risks the vital emergency needs in a community.Any areas in need of improvement result in delays in emergency services at the most critical time of need.\n\nEven the best efforts and intentions of organizations may still pose ethical questions if the processes and services do not adequately translate into the desired outcome of adequately responding to survivors’ needs under disaster conditions.\n\nEthically, social work professionals are held to the standards of the NASW Code of Ethics. This code outlines that a social worker has an ethical responsibility to serve the broader society: “Social workers should provide appropriate professional services in public emergencies to the greatest extent possible.”\n\nThere is great difficulty working under emergency or disaster conditions, which highlights the need to continually work to expand and explore ways the system needs improving.\nSocial workers are trained to provide services, navigate social systems, create necessary programs, and connect at-risk individuals with resources. They must work with all people regardless of their demographic characteristics and be committed to serving the most vulnerable members of communities. Social workers' skills in navigating complex systems of care for their clients makes the social work profession uniquely qualified to work with communities. Their skills are invaluable in ensuring the health of the community and individuals post natural disasters. Please refer to the links below for more information on how to become qualified to respond to disasters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47565196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47565196", "title": "Eleazer Parmly", "text": "Eleazer Parmly\n\nEleazer Parmly (March 13, 1797 – December 13, 1874) was an American dentist in New York City during the early 1800s. He was the first Provost of The University of Maryland School of Dentistry, a first dental school established in the United States. He was the third of five brothers and his three brothers also pursued careers in dentistry.\n\nParmly was born in 1797, in Braintree, Vermont. At the age of 23, Parmly moved to London to work as a dentist. In 1823, he moved back to the United States to practice in New York City, where he opened a dental shop on Bond Street. He was responsible for the development of American dentistry from a primitive craft to a respected profession with various national societies and journals. He also furthered the development of dental colleges. In addition to being a well-trained practitioner and educator, Parmly was a gifted poet and set down his autobiography in verse.\n\nHe worked with several other famous dentists of the time, such as Solyman Brown, Norman William Kingsley, and Chapin A. Harris.\n\nParmly died of pneumonia on December 13, 1874, in New York City, at the age of 77.\n"}
{"id": "34237303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34237303", "title": "Enrique O. Aragón", "text": "Enrique O. Aragón\n\nEnrique O. Aragón (1880–1942) was a Mexican philosopher and physician, once alternative rector of Mexico's National Autonomous University.\n\nHe studied in the National Preparatory school and on 1891 got into the National School of Medicin, where he reached his degree as a doctor, surgeon, and obstetrician on 12th April 1904.\n\nHe died on 1942. There is a highschool with his name in Iztapalapa, Federal District.\n"}
{"id": "525960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=525960", "title": "Enteritis", "text": "Enteritis\n\nEnteritis is inflammation of the small intestine. It is most commonly caused by food or drink contaminated with pathogenic microbes, such as \"serratia\", but may have other causes such as NSAIDs, cocaine, radiation therapy as well as autoimmune conditions like Crohn's disease and coeliac disease. Symptoms include abdominal pain, cramping, diarrhoea, dehydration, and fever. \n\nRelated diseases of the gastrointestinal system include inflammation of the stomach and large intestine. \n\nDuodenitis, jejunitis and ileitis are subtypes of enteritis which are only localised to a specific part of the small intestine. Inflammation of both the stomach and small intestine is referred to as gastroenteritis. \n\nSigns and symptoms of enteritis are highly variable and vary based on the specific cause and other factors such as individual variance and stage of disease.\nSymptoms may include abdominal pain, cramping, diarrhoea, dehydration, fever, nausea, vomiting and weight loss.\n\nCrohn's disease – also known as regional enteritis, it can occur along any surface of the gastrointestinal tract. In 40% of cases it is limited to the small intestine.\n\nCoeliac disease – caused by an autoimmune reaction to gluten by genetically predisposed individuals.\n\nEosinophilic enteropathy – a condition where eosinophils build up in the gastrointestinal tract and blood vessels, leading to polyp formation, necrosis, inflammation and ulcers. It is most commonly seen in patients with a history of atopy, however is overall relatively uncommon.\n\nIn Germany, 90% of cases of infectious enteritis are caused by four pathogens, Norovirus, Rotavirus, \"Campylobacter\" and \"Salmonella\". Other common causes of infectious enteritis include bacteria such as \"Shigella\" and \"E. coli,\" as well as viruses such as adenovirus, astrovirus and calicivirus. Other less common pathogens include \"Bacillus cereus, Clostridium perfringens, Clostridium difficile\" and \"Staphylococcus aureus\".\n\n\"Campylobacter jejuni\" is one of the most common sources of infectious enteritis, and the most common bacterial pathogen found in 2 year old and smaller children with diarrhoea. It has been linked to consumption of contaminated water and food, most commonly poultry and milk. The disease tends to be less severe in developing countries, due to the constant exposure which people have with the antigen in the environment, leading to early development of antibodies.\n\nRotavirus is responsible for infecting 140 million people and causing 1 million deaths each year, mostly in children younger than 5 years. This makes it the most common cause of severe childhood diarrhoea and diarrhea-related deaths in the world. It selectively targets mature enterocytes in the small intestine, causing malabsorption, as well as inducing secretion of water. It has also been observed to cause villus ischemia, and increase intestinal motility. The net result of these changes is induced diarrhoea.\n\nEnteritis necroticans is an often fatal illness, caused by β-toxin of \"Clostridium perfringens\". This causes inflammation and segments of necrosis throughout the gastrointestinal tract. It is most common in developing countries, however has also been documented in post-World War II Germany. Risk factors for enteritis necroticans include decreased trypsin activity, which prevent intestinal degradation of the toxin, and reduced intestinal motility, which increases likelihood of toxin accumulation.\n\nIschemic enteritis is uncommon compared to ischemic colitis due to the highly vascularised nature of the small intestine, allowing for sufficient blood flow in most situations. It develops due to circulatory shock of mesenteric vessels in the absence of major vessel occlusion, often associated with an underlying condition such as hypertension, arrhythmia or diabetes. Thus it has been considered to be associated with atherosclerosis. Surgical treatment is usually required due to the likelihood of stenosis or complete occlusion of the small intestine. Ischemic damage can range from mucosal infarction, which is limited only to the mucosa; mural infarction of the mucosa and underlying submucosa; to transmural infarction of the full thickness of the gastrointestinal wall. Mucosal and mural infarcts in and of themselves may not be fatal, however may progress further to a transmural infarct. This has the potential for perforation of the wall, leading to peritonitis.\n\nInflammation of the gastrointestinal tract is common after treatment with radiation therapy to the abdomen or pelvis. It is classified as early if it manifests within the first 3 months, and delayed if it manifests 3 months after treatment. Early radiation enteritis is caused by cell death of the crypt epithelium and subsequent mucosal inflammation, however usually subsides after the course of radiation therapy is completed. Delayed radiation enteritis is a chronic disease which has a complex pathogenesis involving changes in the majority of the intestinal wall.\n\nDiagnosis may be simple in cases where the patient's signs and symptoms are idiopathic to a specific cause. However this is generally not the case, considering that many pathogens which cause enteritis may exhibit the similar symptoms, especially early in the disease. In particular, \"campylobacter, shigella, salmonella\" and many other bacteria induce acute self-limited colitis, an inflammation of the lining of the colon which appears similar under the microscope.\n\nA medical history, physical examination and tests such as blood counts, stool cultures, CT scans, MRIs, PCRs, colonoscopies and upper endoscopies may be used in order to perform a differential diagnosis. A biopsy may be required to obtain a sample for histopathology.\n\nMild cases usually do not require treatment and will go away after a few days in healthy people. In cases where symptoms persist or when it is more severe, specific treatments based on the initial cause may be required.\n\nIn cases where diarrhoea is present, replenishing fluids lost is recommended, and in cases with prolonged or severe diarrhoea which persists, intravenous rehydration therapy or antibiotics may be required. A simple oral rehydration therapy (ORS) can be made by dissolving one teaspoon of salt, eight teaspoons of sugar and the juice of an orange into one litre of clean water. Studies have shown the efficacy of antibiotics in reducing the duration of the symptoms of infectious enteritis of bacterial origin, however antibiotic treatments are usually not required due to the self-limiting duration of infectious enteritis.\nThe word \"enteritis\" () uses combining forms of \"entero-\" and \"-itis\", both New Latin from Greek, respectively from ἑντερον (\"enteron\", small intestine) and -ιτις (\"-itis\", inflammation).\n\n"}
{"id": "155202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155202", "title": "Female ejaculation", "text": "Female ejaculation\n\nFemale ejaculation is characterized as an expulsion of fluid from or near the vagina during or before an orgasm. It is also known colloquially as squirting or gushing, although these are considered to be different phenomena in some research publications.\n\nTo date, there have been no conclusive or major studies relating to female ejaculation. Much of the problem in arriving at a consensus relates to a failure to adopt generally agreed-on definitions or research methodology. Research has used highly selected individuals, case studies, or very small numbers of subjects, making generalization difficult. Most of the research into the nature of the fluid focuses on determining whether it is or contains urine. Some believe the fluid is secreted by the paraurethral ducts through and around the human female urethra, but the exact source and nature of the fluid remain controversial among medical professionals, which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-spot.\n\nIn questionnaire surveys, 35–50% of women report that they have at some time experienced the gushing of fluid during orgasm. Other studies find anywhere from 10–69%, depending on the definitions and methods used. For instance Kratochvíl (1994) surveyed 200 women and found that 6% reported ejaculating, an additional 13% had some experience and about 60% reported release of fluid without actual gushing. Reports on the volume of fluid expelled vary considerably starting from amounts that would be imperceptible to a woman, to mean values of 1–5 ml.\n\nThe suggestion that women can expel fluid from their genital area as part of sexual arousal has been described by women's health writer Rebecca Chalker as \"one of the most hotly debated questions in modern sexology\". Female ejaculation has been discussed in anatomical, medical, and biological literature throughout recorded history. The reasons for the interest in female ejaculation has been questioned by feminist writers.\n\nIn the 16th century, the Dutch physician Laevinius Lemnius, referred to how a woman \"draws forth the man's seed and casts her own with it\". In the 17th century, François Mauriceau described glands at the female urethral meatus that \"pour out great quantities of saline liquor during coition, which increases the heat and enjoyment of women\". This century saw an increasing understanding of female sexual anatomy and function, in particular the work of the Bartholin family in Denmark.\n\nIn the 17th century, the Dutch anatomist Reinier de Graaf wrote an influential treatise on the reproductive organs \"Concerning the Generative Organs of Women\" which is much cited in the literature on this topic. De Graaf discussed the original controversy but supported the Aristotelian view. He identified the source as the glandular structures and ducts surrounding the urethra.\n\nHe identified [XIII:212] the various controversies regarding the ejaculate and its origin, but stated he believed that this fluid \"which rushes out with such impetus during venereal combat or libidinous imagining\" was derived from a number of sources, including the vagina, urinary tract, cervix and uterus. He appears to identify Skene's ducts, when he writes [XIII: 213] \"those [ducts] which are visible around the orifice of the neck of the vagina and the outlet of the urinary passage receive their fluid from the female 'parastatae', or rather the thick membranous body around the urinary passage.\" However he appears not to distinguish between the lubrication of the perineum during arousal and an orgasmic ejaculate when he refers to liquid \"which in libidinous women often rushes out at the mere sight of a handsome man.\" Further on [XIII:214] he refers to \"liquid as usually comes from the pudenda in one gush.\" However, his prime purpose was to distinguish between generative fluid and pleasurable fluid, in his stand on the Aristotelian semen controversy.\n\nKrafft-Ebing's study of sexual perversion, \"Psychopathia Sexualis\" (1886), describes female ejaculation under the heading \"Congenital Sexual Inversion in Women\" as a perversion related to neurasthenia and homosexuality.\n\nIt is also described by Freud in pathological terms in his study of Dora (1905), where he relates it to hysteria.\n\nHowever, women's writing of that time portrayed this in more positive terms. Thus we find Almeda Sperry writing to Emma Goldman in 1918, about the \"rhythmic spurt of your love juices\". Anatomical knowledge was also advanced by Alexander Skene's description of para-urethral or periurethral glands (glands around the urethra) in 1880, which have been variously claimed to be one source of the fluids in the ejaculate, and now commonly referred to as the Skene's glands.\n\nFemale ejaculation is mentioned as normal in early 20th century 'marriage manuals', such as TH Van de Velde's \"\" (1926). Certainly van de Velde was well aware of the varied experiences of women.\n\nYet the subject was largely ignored for most of the early part of the century. In 1948, Huffman, an American gynaecologist, published his studies of the prostatic tissue in women together with a historical account and detailed drawings. These clearly showed the difference between the original glands identified by Skene at the urinary meatus, and the more proximal collections of glandular tissue emptying directly into the urethra.\n\nTo date, most of the interest had focused on the substance and structure rather than function of the glands. A more definitive contemporary account of ejaculation appeared shortly after, in 1950, with the publication of an essay by Gräfenberg based on his observations of women during orgasm.\n\nHowever this paper made little impact, and was dismissed in the major sexological writings of that time, such as Kinsey (1953) and Masters and Johnson (1966), equating this \"erroneous belief\" with urinary stress incontinence. Although clearly Kinsey was familiar with the phenomenon, commenting that (p. 612);\n\nas were Masters and Johnson ten years later, who observed (pp 79–80):\n\n(emphasis in original) yet dismissed it (p. 135) – \"female ejaculation is an erroneous but widespread concept\", and even twenty years later in 1982, they repeated the statement that it was erroneous (p. 69–70) and the result of \"urinary stress incontinence\".\n\nThe topic did not receive serious attention again until a review by Josephine Lowndes Sevely and JW Bennett appeared in 1978. This latter paper, which traces the history of the controversies to that point, and a series of three papers in 1981 by Beverly Whipple and colleagues in the \"Journal of Sex Research\", became the focal point of the current debate. Whipple became aware of the phenomenon when studying urinary incontinence, with which it is often confused. As Sevely and Bennett point out, this is \"not new knowledge, but a rediscovery of lost awareness that should contribute towards reshaping our view of female sexuality\". Nevertheless, the theory advanced by these authors was immediately dismissed by many other authors, such as physiologist Joseph Bohlen, for not being based on rigorous scientific procedures, and psychiatrist Helen Singer Kaplan (1983) stated:\n\nSome radical feminist writers, such as Sheila Jeffreys (1985) were also dismissive, claiming it as a figment of male fantasy:\n\nIt required the detailed anatomical work of Helen O'Connell from 1998 onwards to more properly elucidate the relationships between the different anatomical structures involved. As she observes, the female perineal urethra is embedded in the anterior vaginal wall and is surrounded by erectile tissue in all directions except posteriorly where it relates to the vaginal wall. \"The distal vagina, clitoris, and urethra form an integrated entity covered superficially by the vulval skin and its epithelial features. These parts have a shared vasculature and nerve supply and during sexual stimulation respond as a unit\".\n\nFemale ejaculation appears in 20th-century anthropological works, such as Malinowski's Melanesian study, \"The Sexual Life of Savages\" (1929), and Gladwin and Sarason's \"Truk: Man in Paradise\" (1956). Malinowski states that in the language of the Trobriand Island people, a single word is used to describe ejaculation in both male and female.\n\nIn describing sexual relations amongst the Trukese Micronesians, Gladwin and Sarason state that \"Female orgasm is commonly signalled by urination\". Catherine Blackledge (p. 205) provides a number of examples from other cultures, including the Ugandan Batoro, Mohave Indians, Mangaians, and Ponapese. Amongst the Batoro, older women teach the younger women \"kachapati\" (spraying the wall) at puberty. (See also Chalker 2002 pp. 531–2, Ladas et al. 1983 pp. 74–5)\n\nTo date, there have been no conclusive or major studies relating to female ejaculation, the largest study being an internet survey consisting of 320 participants. Much of the problem in arriving at a consensus relates to a failure to adopt generally agreed-on definitions or research methodology. Research has used highly selected individuals, case studies, or very small numbers of subjects, making generalization difficult. For instance, much of the research into the nature of the fluid focuses on determining whether it is or contains urine. There are also problems involved in the collection of specimens and issues of contamination. Since the area of interest is para-urethral glands, it is impossible to completely separate the secretions from urine, especially considering that there may be retrograde ejaculation into the urethra towards the bladder. The best current data comes from studies where women have abstained from coitus, and where their own urine is used as a control both pre- and post-orgasm. Research has attempted to use chemicals that are excreted in the urine so that any urinary contamination can be detected. Further methodological issues include the fact that the composition of the fluid appears to vary with the menstrual cycle, and that the biochemical profile of the para-urethral tissues varies with age.\nOther issues relate to the sensitivity and specificity of the markers chosen. The key questions are the source of the fluid produced, and its composition.\n\nSome aspects of the research community distinguish between female ejaculation and what is colloquially known as squirting or gushing. These terms are used by the public interchangeably, which often leads to confusion. In these research publications, it is suggested that \"real\" female ejaculation is the release of a very scanty, thick, and whitish fluid from the female prostate, while the \"squirting\" or \"gushing\" (shown frequently in pornography) is a different phenomenon: the expulsion of clear and abundant fluid, which has been shown to be a diluted fluid from the urinary bladder.\n\nTowards the later part of the 20th century, there was significant confusion between female ejaculation and urinary incontinence. In 1982, Bohlen explained the accepted wisdom:\n\nScientific studies from the 1980s and later have demonstrated that the substance produced is distinct from urine, though it does show similarities such as alkalinity with urine. A recent study of women who report ejaculation found no evidence of any urological problems, suggesting these two conditions (ejaculation and coital incontinence) are quite distinct physiologically, although perhaps not always distinguishable in a particular individual's mind. Davidson's study of 1,289 women found that the sensation of ejaculation was very similar to that of urination. One study by Gary Schubach used urethral catheterization in order to separate urine from orgasmic expulsions from elsewhere in the body. Seven women claiming to have ejaculations expelled large volumes of urine through the catheter at orgasm, and little to no other fluid.\n\nIt may be important for physicians to establish whether there is in fact any incontinence in women who report ejaculation, to avoid unnecessary interventions.\nIt is also important for physicians to distinguish orgasmic ejaculation from vaginal discharges which may require further investigation and treatment. In individual cases, the exact source of any reported discharge may not be obvious without further investigation.\n\nCritics have maintained that ejaculation is either stress incontinence or vaginal lubrication. Research in this area has concentrated almost exclusively on attempts to prove that the ejaculate is not urine, measuring substances such as urea, creatinine, prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP), prostate specific antigen (PSA), glucose and fructose levels. Early work was contradictory; the initial study on one woman by Addiego and colleagues, reported in 1981, could not be confirmed in a subsequent study on 11 women in 1983, but was confirmed in another 7 women in 1984. In 1985, a different group studied 27 women and found only urine, suggesting that results depend critically on the methods used.\n\nA 2007 study on two women involved ultrasound, endoscopy, and biochemical analysis of fluid. The ejaculate was compared to pre-orgasmic urine from the same woman, and also to published data on male ejaculate. In both women, higher levels of PSA, PAP, and glucose but lower levels of creatinine were found in the ejaculate than the urine. PSA levels were comparable to those in males.\n\nUltrasounds from a 2014 study, involving seven women who reported recurring massive fluid emission during sexual arousal, confirmed thorough bladder emptiness before stimulation, noticeable bladder filling before squirting and demonstrated that the bladder had again been emptied after squirting. Although small amounts of prostatic secretions are present in the emitted fluid, the study suggests that squirting is essentially the involuntary emission of urine during sexual activity.\n\nOne very practical objection relates to the reported volumes ejaculated, since this fluid must be stored somewhere in the pelvis, of which the urinary bladder is the largest source. The actual volume of the para-urethral tissue is quite small. By comparison, male ejaculate varies from (95% confidence interval), with a maximum of . Therefore, claims of larger amounts of ejaculate are likely to contain at least some amount of urine. The eleven specimens analyzed by Goldberg in 1983, ranged from . One source states that Skene's glands are capable of excreting in 30–50 seconds, but it is unclear how this was measured and has not been confirmed. One approach is to use a chemical like methylene blue so that any urinary component can be detected. Belzer showed that in one woman he studied, the dye was found in her urine, but not her orgasmic expulsion.\n\nPAP and PSA have been identified in the para-urethral tissues, using biochemical and immunohistochemical methods, suggesting that the ejaculate is likely to arise from the ducts in these tissues, in a manner homologous to that in the male. Another marker common to the prostate/para-urethral tissue in both sexes is Human protein 1.\n\nPSA occurs in urine, and is elevated in post-orgasmic samples compared to pre-orgasmic. Simultaneous collection of ejaculate also showed PSA in both urine and ejaculate in all cases, but in higher concentration in the ejaculate than in the urine.\n\nThe physiological function of the purported liquid is unknown. A 2009 paper in \"Medical Hypotheses\" suggests that it may have an anti-microbial function, protecting from urinary tract infections.\n\nThe debate in the current literature focuses on three threads: the existence of female ejaculation, its source(s) and composition, and its relationship to theories of female sexuality. This debate has been influenced by popular culture, pornography, and physio-chemical and behavioral studies. There is some resistance from feminists to what has been perceived as a male lens in interpreting the data and construct. Often the debate is also tied to the existence of the G-spot;\nstimulation of the anterior vaginal wall involves simultaneous stimulation of the para-urethral tissue, the site of the Skene's glands and ducts and presumed source of the ejaculated fluid, and therefore it has been variously stated that stimulation of this spot results in ejaculation. These tissues, surrounding the distal urethra, and anterior to the vagina, have a common embryological origin to the prostatic tissue in the male.\n\nIn an extensive survey, Darling and colleagues claim support for the existence of ejaculation, while in a sharply critical response, Alzate states that direct experimentation fails to provide any evidence. Alzate states:\n\nShannon Bell argues that the debate is confused by the discussion of two separate phenomena. She comments that Alzate simply dismisses women's subjective experiences in favour of rigorous scientific proof, and is typical of male sexologists withholding the validity of experience from women. Bell's critique lies at the heart of feminist concerns about this debate, namely a tendency to \"disregard, reinterpret, and overwrite women's subjective descriptions.\" For some, she states, it is more a matter of belief than of physiology. Bell further questions why feminists have not been more outspoken in defense of women's control over female ejaculation, pointing out that the literature frames the discussion in only five separate ways; procreation, sexual pleasure, deviance, pathology, and a scientific mystery.\n\nThe discussion entered popular culture in 1982 with the publication of the best-selling book \"The G Spot and Other Recent Discoveries About Human Sexuality,\" by Ladas, Whipple, and Perry. The book discussed female ejaculation and brought the issue back into discussions of women's sexuality both in the medical community and among the general public. This was a popular account of three papers by the authors, the previous year, at the suggestion of Alice Khan Ladas. Rebecca Chalker notes that this book was largely met with scorn, skepticism and disbelief. The chapter on 'Female Ejaculation' is largely based on anecdotal testimony, and illustrates another issue in the debate, the weight placed on anecdotes and small numbers of observations rather than biomedical investigation or clinical trials. Importantly, a number of the women stated that they had been diagnosed with urinary incontinence. The book advances another feminist theory: that because women's pleasure in their sexuality has been historically excluded, the pleasure of ejaculation has been either discounted or appropriated by health professionals as a physiological phenomenon. Whipple continued to publicise her discoveries, including a 9 min video made in 1981 \"Orgasmic Expulsions of Fluid in the Sexually Stimulated Female\". In 1984, the \"Journal of Sex Research\" described the debate surrounding female ejaculation as 'heated'.\nJosephine Sevely then followed up her 1978 study by publishing \"Eve's Secrets: A new theory of female sexuality\" in 1987, emphasising an integrated rather than fragmented approach to understanding female sexuality, with the clitoris, vagina and urethra depicted as a single sexual organ. This not only challenged the traditional fragmentation of female sexuality into clitoral vs. vaginal sensation, but also sexualised the urethra.\n\nThe continuing debate is further illustrated in the angry exchange of letters between the author and researchers in the \"American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology\" in 2002 following the publication of 'The G-spot: A modern gynecological myth' by Terrence Hines.\nAs of 2007, and 2008\nthe existence of a female prostate and of ejaculation are a matter of debate, and articles and book chapters continue to appear with subtitles such as \"Fact or Fantasy\".\n\nSexual functions, and orgasm in particular, remain poorly understood scientifically, as opposed to politically and philosophically. Regardless of the facts relating to the details of female ejaculation, the social significance of the popular accounts through the feminist health care movement has been considerable.\n\nMany women, before learning about ejaculation, experienced shame or avoided sexual intimacy under the belief that they had wet the bed. Others suppressed sexual climax, and sought medical advice for this \"problem\", and even underwent surgery.\n\nThere are, however, concerns. The terminology (such as female prostate and female ejaculation) invoke images of the female as merely an imitation of the male, mapping the female body onto the male, as if, like the Galenic view, it was incomplete. Furthermore, overemphasis of ejaculation may induce performance anxiety. For the reason that 'sameness' has been construed as a male perspective, some feminists reject the term ejaculation. Others argue it should be retained as a distinctive feminine characteristic distinguishable from the male, and imbued with different properties and purpose. A third concern is that of the increasing 'medicalisation' of women's sexuality, as expressed by Leonore Tiefer which finds its most extreme manifestation in the concept of female sexual dysfunction.\nTiefer has expressed concern that overemphasising ejaculation will drive women who might feel inadequate to seek medical attention, as has the Boston Women's Health Collective. Other criticism comes from Barbara Ehrenreich and colleagues who see this new sexuality as one that privileges the male in control, penile retention and body position, but this is denied by others.\n\nContemporary women's health literature summarises what is considered factual as being that the amount of fluid varies greatly and may be unnoticeable, occurs with or without vaginal stimulation, and may accompany orgasm or merely intense sexual pleasure, and orgasm may occur without ejaculation. Whether it can be learned or not, women report that they can induce it by enhancing their sexual response. Regardless, countless workshops now exist to teach women that learning how to ejaculate is an important form of feminine sexual expression. Sundahl describes it as a birthright and essential part of female creativity.\n\nThe presence of chemical markers such as PSA or PAP in the female genital tract has been considered evidence in rape trials, but Sensabaugh and Kahane demonstrated in four specimens that PAP was an order of magnitude greater in a woman's ejaculate than in her urine. Recently, knowledge that these markers can be of female origin has led to acquittal based on forensic evidence.\n\nFemale pornographic performers who are alleged to ejaculate on film include Hotaru Akane, Charley Chase, Annie Cruz, Cytherea, Jamie Lynn, Jiz Lee, Missy Monroe, Jenna Presley, and Flower Tucci. Fallon is known as the first pornographic actress to allegedly ejaculate on film. Tiana Lynn can allegedly ejaculate as well, and she claims to have discovered her ability during a scene with Mark Ashley.\n\nSarah Jane Hamilton became known as one of the first alleged female ejaculators from Britain; though this was later dismissed by porn reviewer Pat Riley as urination in his review of \"The British are Coming\" (1993). However, she has commented that she could not ejaculate on cue even though producers expect her to like a male performer.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the British Board of Film Classification has requested cuts to pornographic films alleged to show female ejaculation, claiming that the expert medical advice it received was that there is no such thing as female ejaculation, and therefore the films showed urolagnia. Urination during sex is considered obscene under the Obscene Publications Acts. The Board later stated instead that it does not take any view on whether female ejaculation exists and explained that all apparent examples presented to the Board were of simple urination masquerading as female ejaculation.\n\nEasy on the Eye Productions released a press announcement on October 6, 2010 stating that the BBFC passed the DVD \"Women Love Porn\" (containing a scene including female ejaculation in the scene \"Top Milf\") on advice of legal counsel when the director, Anna Span, pushed for a hearing with the Video Appeals Committee. Easy on the Eye Productions considered it a \"historic victory\" although the BBFC maintains that its \"position remains fundamentally unchanged for future releases\".\nAccording to the Carnal Nation site, the issue was first raised by the group Feminists Against Censorship (FAC) in 2001.\n\nIn Australia, a similar view has been taken with regard to Internet censorship proposals, which ban pornographic websites featuring female ejaculation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24534775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24534775", "title": "Frank Kleffner", "text": "Frank Kleffner\n\nFrank R. Kleffner (October 10, 1925 – June 12, 2015) was a professor at Washington University in St. Louis, noted for his contributions in the fields of speech and language pathology and hearing.\n\nHis work with William Landau and Harold Klawans advanced his career beyond regular work in a neurology clinic. His name became well known for a controversial treatment for a disease affecting children under the age of five and causing acquired aphasia (Landau–Kleffner syndrome).\n\nIn 1976 Dr. Kleffner became the Director of the Institute of Logopedics in Wichita, Kansas, until his retirement.\n\nAn award for excellence in speech-language pathology has been presented annually in his name since 1986.\n\nThe Frank R. Kleffner Clinical Career Award is given to a speech-language pathologist or audiologist in recognition of outstanding contributions to clinical science and practice in communication science and disorders over a period of twenty years or more. Selection of the award recipient is based on the criteria established by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Foundation (a body founded in 1946, affiliated to the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association).\n\n"}
{"id": "7472090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7472090", "title": "Genfo", "text": "Genfo\n\nGenfo (, \"gänəfo\"; , \"ga'atə\") is a stiff porridge-like substance that is normally formed into bite-size ball, dipped into a mixture of butter and red peppers, or pulses such as sunflower, seed, nut (\"Carthamus tinctorius\") and flax (\"Linum usitatissimum\") during Lent or Ramadan, where it is consumed.\n\nGenfo is made with barley or wheat flour. To cook genfo, the flour and water are combined and stirred continuously with a wooden spoon. Genfo is presented in a large mound with a hole in the center, filled with a mixture of \"niter kibbeh\" and \"berbere\". This spicy combination is tempered with yogurt which balances the flavors. The porridge may be eaten with the hands or with a utensil.\n\n"}
{"id": "1910792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1910792", "title": "Gillick competence", "text": "Gillick competence\n\nGillick competence is a term originating in England and is used in medical law to decide whether a child (under 16 years of age) is able to consent to his or her own medical treatment, without the need for parental permission or knowledge.\n\nThe standard is based on the 1985 decision of the House of Lords in \"Gillick v West Norfolk and Wisbech Area Health Authority\". The case is binding in England and Wales, and has been adopted to varying extents in Australia, Canada and New Zealand. Similar provision is made in Scotland by the Age of Legal Capacity (Scotland) Act 1991. In Northern Ireland, although separate legislation applies, the then Department of Health and Social Services stated that there was no reason to suppose that the House of Lords' decision would not be followed by the Northern Ireland Courts. \n\nThe Gillick case involved a health departmental circular advising doctors on the contraception of minors (for this purpose, under sixteens). The circular stated that the prescription of contraception was a matter for the doctor's discretion and that they could be prescribed to under sixteens without parental consent. This matter was litigated because an activist, Victoria Gillick, ran an active campaign against the policy. Gillick sought a declaration that prescribing contraception was illegal because the doctor would commit an offence of encouraging sex with a minor and that it would be treatment without consent as consent vested in the parent.\n\nThe issue before the House of Lords was only whether the minor involved could give consent. \"Consent\" here was considered in the broad sense of consent to battery or assault: in the absence of patient consent to treatment, a doctor, even if well-intentioned, might be sued/charged.\n\nThe House of Lords focused on the issue of consent rather than a notion of 'parental rights' or parental power. In fact, the court held that 'parental rights' did not exist, other than to safeguard the best interests of a minor. The majority held that in some circumstances a minor could consent to treatment, and that in these circumstances a parent had no power to veto treatment.\n\nLord Scarman and Lord Fraser proposed slightly different tests (Lord Bridge agreed with both). Lord Scarman's test is generally considered to be the test of 'Gillick competency'. He required that a child could consent if he or she fully understood the medical treatment that is proposed:\n\nThe ruling holds particularly significant implications for the legal rights of minor children in England in that it is broader in scope than merely medical consent. It lays down that the authority of parents to make decisions for their minor children is not absolute, but diminishes with the child's evolving maturity. The result of Gillick is that in England today, except in situations that are regulated otherwise by law, the legal right to make a decision on any particular matter concerning the child shifts from the parent to the child when the child reaches sufficient maturity to be capable of making up his or her own mind on the matter requiring decision.\n\nThe decisions \"In re R\" (1991) and \"Re W\" (1992) (especially Lord Donaldson) contradict the Gillick decision somewhat. From these, and subsequent cases, it is suggested that although the parental right to veto treatment ends, parental powers do not \"terminate\" as suggested by Lord Scarman in Gillick. However, these are only obiter statements and were made by a lower court; therefore, they are not legally binding. However, the parens patriae jurisdiction of the court remains available allowing a court order to force treatment against a child's (and parent's) wishes.\n\nA child who is deemed \"Gillick competent\" is able to prevent their parents viewing their medical records. As such, medical staff will not make a disclosure of medical records of a child who is deemed \"Gillick competent\" unless consent is manifest.\n\nIn a 2006 judicial review, \"R (on the application of Axon) v Secretary of State for Health\", the High Court affirmed Gillick in allowing for medical confidentiality for teenagers seeking an abortion. The court rejected a claim that not granting parent's a \"right to know\" whether their child had sought an abortion, birth control or contraception breached Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The \"Axon\" case set out a list of criteria that a doctor must meet when deciding whether to provide treatment to an under-16 child without informing their parents: they must be convinced that they can understand all aspects of the advice, that the patient's physical or mental health is likely to suffer without medical advice, that it is in the best interests of the patient to provide medical advice, that (in provision of contraception) they are likely to have sex whether contraception is provided or not, and that they have made an effort to convince the young person to disclose the information to their parents.\n\nIn most jurisdictions the parent of an emancipated minor does not have the ability to consent to therapy, regardless of the Gillick test. Typical positions of emancipation arise when the minor is married (\"R v D\" [1984] AC 778, 791) or in the military.\n\nThe nature of the standard remains uncertain. The courts have so far declined invitations to define rigidly \"Gillick competence\" and the individual doctor is free to make a decision, consulting peers if this may be helpful, as to whether that child is \"Gillick competent\".\n\nSome recent legislation appears to explicitly restrict the ability of Gillick competent children to consent to medical treatment outside of clinical settings. For example, parental consent is required for the treatment of children with asthma using standby salbutamol inhalers in schools. These restrictions have yet to be tested in court.\n\nThe Australian High Court gave specific and strong approval for the Gillick decision in \"Marion's Case\", \"Secretary of the Department of Health and Community Services v JWB and SMB\" (1992) 175 CLR 189. The Gillick competence doctrine is part of Australian case law (see, e.g., \"DoCS v Y\" [1999] NSWSC 644).\n\nThere is no express authority in Australia on \"In re R\" and \"Re W\", so whether a parent's right terminates is unclear. This lack of authority reflects that the reported cases have all involved minors who have been found to be incompetent, and that Australian courts will make decisions in the \"parens patriae\" jurisdiction regardless of Gillick competence.\n\nIn South Australia and New South Wales legislation clarifies the common law, establishing a Gillick-esque standard of competence but preserving concurrent consent between parent and child for the ages 14–16.\n\nOn 21 May 2009, confusion arose between Gillick competence, which identifies under-16s with the capacity to consent to their own treatment, and the Fraser guidelines, which are concerned only with contraception and focus on the desirability of parental involvement and the risks of unprotected sex in that area.\n\nA persistent rumour arose that Victoria Gillick disliked having her name associated with the assessment of children's capacity, but an editorial in the BMJ from 2006 claims that Gillick as saying that she \"has never suggested to anyone, publicly or privately, that [she] disliked being associated with the term 'Gillick competent.\n\nIt is lawful for doctors to provide contraceptive advice and treatment without parental consent providing certain criteria are met. These criteria, known as the Fraser guidelines, were laid down by Lord Fraser in the House of Lords' case and require the professional to be satisfied that:\n\nAlthough these criteria specifically refer to contraception, the principles are deemed to apply to other treatments, including abortion. Although the judgement in the House of Lords referred specifically to doctors, it is considered to apply to other health professionals, including nurses. It may also be interpreted as covering youth workers and health promotion workers who may be giving contraceptive advice and condoms to young people under 16, but this has not been tested in court.\n\nIf a person under the age of 18 refuses to consent to treatment, it is possible in some cases for their parents or the courts to overrule their decision. However, this right can be exercised only on the basis that the welfare of the young person is paramount. In this context, welfare does not simply mean their physical health. The psychological effect of having the decision overruled would have to be taken into account and would normally be an option only when the young person was thought likely to suffer \"grave and irreversible mental or physical harm\". Usually, when a parent wants to overrule a young person's decision to refuse treatment, health professionals will apply to the courts for a final decision.\n\nAn interesting aside to the Fraser guidelines is that many regard Lord Scarman's judgement as the leading judgement in the case, but because Lord Fraser's judgement was shorter and set out in more specific terms – and in that sense more accessible to health and welfare professionals – it is his judgement that has been reproduced as containing the core principles.\n\n"}
{"id": "11640669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11640669", "title": "Global Public Health Intelligence Network", "text": "Global Public Health Intelligence Network\n\nThe Global Public Health Intelligence Network (GPHIN) is an electronic public health early warning system developed by Canada's Public Health Agency, and is part of the World Health Organization's (WHO) Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network (GOARN). This system monitors internet media, such as news wires and websites, in nine languages in order to help detect and report potential disease outbreaks or other health threats around the world.\n\nGPHIN is managed by the Public Health Agency of Canada's Centre for Emergency Preparedness and Response (CEPR).\n\n"}
{"id": "15592556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15592556", "title": "Health Care in Canada Survey", "text": "Health Care in Canada Survey\n\nThe Health Care in Canada Survey (HCIC) is a comprehensive annual survey of Canadian public and health care providers’ opinions on health care issues. It was conducted annually over the decade 1998–2007, and was developed to provide direction for governments as they work to manage health care reform.\n\nThe intent and spirit of the survey was not to provide a report card on the status of the health system, but rather to gauge the need for change, and to provide direction to government on where change is needed, and the options supported by stakeholders of the system. The results from the survey can help guide decision makers, serving as a roadmap to health system reform.\n\nResults from the survey were based on telephone interviews with nationally representative samples of 1,223 members of the Canadian public, 202 doctors, 201 nurses, 202 pharmacists and 201 health managers. The questions were developed by POLLARA Research working in consultation with their partner organizations.\n\nThe survey was developed in partnership with a variety of key stakeholders in the healthcare system, working together to provide their experience and perspective on the system. The goal of the partnership was to develop a resource that provides strong direction to decision makers in this time of health care review and reform. Partners included - Association of Canadian Academic Healthcare Organizations, Canadian Healthcare Association, Canadian Home Care Association, Canadian Medical Association, Canadian Nurses Association, Health Charities Coalition of Canada, Université de Montréal - Groupe de recherche en gestion thérapeutique, Merck Frosst Canada Ltd., POLLARA Research, and Rogers Media. The partnership grew from three partners in 1998 to ten in its final year. The partnership represented a broad base of stakeholders in the system, including health care providers, health organizations and institutions, university institutes, the community and homecare sectors, and the innovative pharmaceutical industry.\n\nA number of features made the survey unique. The first is the partnership of a range of stakeholder groups. Secondly, the experiences of the public and health care providers are captured, providing the ability to compare and contrast the reflections of these groups. Third, it was an annual survey, allowing for the tracking of trends over time, highlighting evolving appetites for change, priorities, and preferences.\n\n"}
{"id": "261925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261925", "title": "Health care", "text": "Health care\n\nHealth care or healthcare is the maintenance or improvement of health via the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of disease, illness, injury, and other physical and mental impairments in human beings. Healthcare is delivered by health professionals (providers or practitioners) in allied health fields. Physicians and physician associates are a part of these health professionals. Dentistry, midwifery, nursing, medicine, optometry, audiology, pharmacy, psychology, occupational therapy, physical therapy and other health professions are all part of healthcare. It includes work done in providing primary care, secondary care, and tertiary care, as well as in public health.\n\nAccess to health care may vary across countries, communities, and individuals, largely influenced by social and economic conditions as well as the health policies in place. Countries and jurisdictions have different policies and plans in relation to the personal and population-based health care goals within their societies. Healthcare systems are organizations established to meet the health needs of targeted populations. Their exact configuration varies between national and subnational entities. In some countries and jurisdictions, health care planning is distributed among market participants, whereas in others, planning occurs more centrally among governments or other coordinating bodies. In all cases, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), a well-functioning healthcare system requires a robust financing mechanism; a well-trained and adequately paid workforce; reliable information on which to base decisions and policies; and well maintained health facilities and logistics to deliver quality medicines and technologies.\n\nHealthcare can contribute to a significant part of a country's economy. In 2011, the healthcare industry consumed an average of 9.3 percent of the GDP or US$ 3,322 (PPP-adjusted) per capita across the 34 members of OECD countries. The US (17.7%, or US$ PPP 8,508), the Netherlands (11.9%, 5,099), France (11.6%, 4,118), Germany (11.3%, 4,495), Canada (11.2%, 5669), and Switzerland (11%, 5,634) were the top spenders, however life expectancy in total population at birth was highest in Switzerland (82.8 years), Japan and Italy (82.7), Spain and Iceland (82.4), France (82.2) and Australia (82.0), while OECD's average exceeds 80 years for the first time ever in 2011: 80.1 years, a gain of 10 years since 1970. The US (78.7 years) ranges only on place 26 among the 34 OECD member countries, but has the highest costs by far. All OECD countries have achieved universal (or almost universal) health coverage, except the US and Mexico. (see also international comparisons.)\n\nHealth care is conventionally regarded as an important determinant in promoting the general physical and mental health and well-being of people around the world. An example of this was the worldwide eradication of smallpox in 1980, declared by the WHO as the first disease in human history to be completely eliminated by deliberate health care interventions.\n\nThe delivery of modern health care depends on groups of trained professionals and paraprofessionals coming together as interdisciplinary teams. This includes professionals in medicine, psychology, physiotherapy, nursing, dentistry, midwifery and allied health, along with many others such as public health practitioners, community health workers and assistive personnel, who systematically provide personal and population-based preventive, curative and rehabilitative care services.\n\nWhile the definitions of the various types of health care vary depending on the different cultural, political, organizational and disciplinary perspectives, there appears to be some consensus that primary care constitutes the first element of a continuing health care process and may also include the provision of secondary and tertiary levels of care. Healthcare can be defined as either public or private.\n\nPrimary care refers to the work of health professionals who act as a first point of consultation for all patients within the health care system. Such a professional would usually be a primary care physician, such as a general practitioner or family physician. Another professional would be a licensed independent practitioner such as a physiotherapist, or a non-physician primary care provider such as a physician assistant or nurse practitioner. Depending on the locality, health system organization the patient may see another health care professional first, such as a pharmacist or nurse. Depending on the nature of the health condition, patients may be referred for secondary or tertiary care.\n\nPrimary care is often used as the term for the health care services that play a role in the local community. It can be provided in different settings, such as Urgent care centers which provide same day appointments or services on a walk-in basis.\n\nPrimary care involves the widest scope of health care, including all ages of patients, patients of all socioeconomic and geographic origins, patients seeking to maintain optimal health, and patients with all types of acute and chronic physical, mental and social health issues, including multiple chronic diseases. Consequently, a primary care practitioner must possess a wide breadth of knowledge in many areas. Continuity is a key characteristic of primary care, as patients usually prefer to consult the same practitioner for routine check-ups and preventive care, health education, and every time they require an initial consultation about a new health problem. The International Classification of Primary Care (ICPC) is a standardized tool for understanding and analyzing information on interventions in primary care based on the reason for the patient's visit.\n\nCommon chronic illnesses usually treated in primary care may include, for example: hypertension, diabetes, asthma, COPD, depression and anxiety, back pain, arthritis or thyroid dysfunction. Primary care also includes many basic maternal and child health care services, such as family planning services and vaccinations. In the United States, the 2013 National Health Interview Survey found that skin disorders (42.7%), osteoarthritis and joint disorders (33.6%), back problems (23.9%), disorders of lipid metabolism (22.4%), and upper respiratory tract disease (22.1%, excluding asthma) were the most common reasons for accessing a physician.\n\nIn the United States, primary care physicians have begun to deliver primary care outside of the managed care (insurance-billing) system through direct primary care which is a subset of the more familiar concierge medicine. Physicians in this model bill patients directly for services, either on a pre-paid monthly, quarterly, or annual basis, or bill for each service in the office. Examples of direct primary care practices include Foundation Health in Colorado and Qliance in Washington.\n\nIn context of global population aging, with increasing numbers of older adults at greater risk of chronic non-communicable diseases, rapidly increasing demand for primary care services is expected in both developed and developing countries. The World Health Organization attributes the provision of essential primary care as an integral component of an inclusive primary health care strategy.\n\nSecondary care includes acute care: necessary treatment for a short period of time for a brief but serious illness, injury, or other health condition. This care is often found in a hospital emergency department. Secondary care also includes skilled attendance during childbirth, intensive care, and medical imaging services.\n\nThe term \"secondary care\" is sometimes used synonymously with \"hospital care.\" However, many secondary care providers, such as psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, occupational therapists, most dental specialties or physiotherapists do not necessarily work in hospitals. Some primary care services are delivered within hospitals. Depending on the organization and policies of the national health system, patients may be required to see a primary care provider for a referral before they can access secondary care. \n\nIn countries which operate under a mixed market health care system, some physicians limit their practice to secondary care by requiring patients to see a primary care provider first. This restriction may be imposed under the terms of the payment agreements in private or group health insurance plans. In other cases, medical specialists may see patients without a referral, and patients may decide whether self-referral is preferred.\n\nIn other countries patient self-referral to a medical specialist for secondary care is rare as prior referral from another physician (either a primary care physician or another specialist) is considered necessary, regardless of whether the funding is from private insurance schemes or national health insurance.\n\nAllied health professionals, such as physical therapists, respiratory therapists, occupational therapists, speech therapists, and dietitians, also generally work in secondary care, accessed through either patient self-referral or through physician referral.\n\nTertiary care is specialized consultative health care, usually for inpatients and on referral from a primary or secondary health professional, in a facility that has personnel and facilities for advanced medical investigation and treatment, such as a tertiary referral hospital.\n\nExamples of tertiary care services are cancer management, neurosurgery, cardiac surgery, plastic surgery, treatment for severe burns, advanced neonatology services, palliative, and other complex medical and surgical interventions.\n\nThe term quaternary care is sometimes used as an extension of tertiary care in reference to advanced levels of medicine which are highly specialized and not widely accessed. Experimental medicine and some types of uncommon diagnostic or surgical procedures are considered quaternary care. These services are usually only offered in a limited number of regional or national health care centers. Quaternary care is more prevalent in the United Kingdom.\n\nMany types of health care interventions are delivered outside of health facilities. They include many interventions of public health interest, such as food safety surveillance, distribution of condoms and needle-exchange programs for the prevention of transmissible diseases.\n\nThey also include the services of professionals in residential and community settings in support of self care, home care, long-term care, assisted living, treatment for substance use disorders among other types of health and social care services.\n\nCommunity rehabilitation services can assist with mobility and independence after loss of limbs or loss of function. This can include prosthesis, orthotics or wheelchairs.\n\nMany countries, especially in the west are dealing with aging populations, so one of the priorities of the health care system is to help seniors live full, independent lives in the comfort of their own homes. There is an entire section of health care geared to providing seniors with help in day-to-day activities at home such as transportation to and from doctor's appointments along with many other activities that are essential for their health and well-being. Although they provide home care for older adults in cooperation, family members and care workers may harbor diverging attitudes and values towards their joint efforts. This state of affairs presents a challenge for the design of ICT (information and communication technology) for home care.\n\nBecause statistics show that over 80 million Americans have taken time off of their primary employment to care for a loved one, many countries have begun offering programs such as Consumer Directed Personal Assistant Program to allow family members to take care of their loved ones without giving up their entire income.\n\nWith obesity in children rapidly becoming a major concern, health services often set up programs in schools aimed at educating children about nutritional eating habits, making physical education a requirement and teaching young adolescents to have positive self-image.\n\nHealth care ratings are ratings or evaluations of health care used to evaluate the process of care and healthcare structures and/or outcomes of health care services. This information is translated into report cards that are generated by quality organizations, nonprofit, consumer groups and media. This evaluation of quality is based on measures of:\n\nHealth care extends beyond the delivery of services to patients, encompassing many related sectors, and is set within a bigger picture of financing and governance structures.\n\nA health system, also sometimes referred to as health care system or healthcare system is the organization of people, institutions, and resources that deliver health care services to populations in need.\n\nThe health care industry incorporates several sectors that are dedicated to providing health care services and products. As a basic framework for defining the sector, the United Nations' International Standard Industrial Classification categorizes health care as generally consisting of hospital activities, medical and dental practice activities, and \"other human health activities.\" The last class involves activities of, or under the supervision of, nurses, midwives, physiotherapists, scientific or diagnostic laboratories, pathology clinics, residential health facilities, patient advocates or other allied health professions.\n\nIn addition, according to industry and market classifications, such as the Global Industry Classification Standard and the Industry Classification Benchmark, health care includes many categories of medical equipment, instruments and services including biotechnology, diagnostic laboratories and substances, drug manufacturing and delivery.\n\nFor example, pharmaceuticals and other medical devices are the leading high technology exports of Europe and the United States. The United States dominates the biopharmaceutical field, accounting for three-quarters of the world's biotechnology revenues.\n\nThe quantity and quality of many health care interventions are improved through the results of science, such as advanced through the medical model of health which focuses on the eradication of illness through diagnosis and effective treatment. Many important advances have been made through health research, biomedical research and pharmaceutical research, which form the basis for evidence-based medicine and evidence-based practice in health care delivery.\n\nHealth services research can lead to greater efficiency and equitable delivery of health care interventions, as advanced through the social model of health and disability, which emphasizes the societal changes that can be made to make populations healthier. Results from health services research often form the basis of evidence-based policy in health care systems. Health services research is also aided by initiatives in the field of artificial intelligence for the development of systems of health assessment that are clinically useful, timely, sensitive to change, culturally sensitive, low burden, low cost, built into standard procedures, and involve the patient.\n\nThere are generally five primary methods of funding health care systems:\n\n\nIn most countries there is a mix of all five models, but this varies across countries and over time within countries.\n\nThe management and administration of health care is vital to the delivery of health care services. In particular, the practice of health professionals and operation of health care institutions is typically regulated by national or state/provincial authorities through appropriate regulatory bodies for purposes of quality assurance. Most countries have credentialing staff in regulatory boards or health departments who document the certification or licensing of health workers and their work history.\n\nHealth information technology (HIT) is \"the application of information processing involving both computer hardware and software that deals with the storage, retrieval, sharing, and use of health care information, data, and knowledge for communication and decision making.\" \n\nHealth information technology components:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15985803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15985803", "title": "Health in England", "text": "Health in England\n\nA study by Public Health England in 2017 found that 41% of the 15.3 million English adults aged 40 to 60 do not walk for as much as 10 minutes continuously each month at a brisk pace. A quarter of the English population was found to be “inactive” – doing less than 30 minutes of activity per week.\n\nThe heaviest-drinking 20% of the population drink almost two thirds of all alcohol consumed.\n\nThe Blair Government instituted a comprehensive programme to reduce health inequalities in England between 1997 and 2010 focused on reducing geographical inequalities in life expectancy. It was targeted at the Spearhead areas - the 20% of local authorities with the worst health and deprivation indicators. More NHS resources were directed to more deprived areas. The strategy was associated with a decline in geographical inequalities in life expectancy, reversing a trend which had increased over a long period.\n\n"}
{"id": "318068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318068", "title": "Hebe (mythology)", "text": "Hebe (mythology)\n\nHebe (; ) in ancient Greek religion, is the goddess of youth or the prime of life (Roman equivalent: Juventas). She is the daughter of Zeus and Hera. Hebe was the cupbearer for the gods and goddesses of Mount Olympus, serving their nectar and ambrosia until she was married to Heracles (Roman equivalent: Hercules); her successor was the divine hero Ganymede. Another title of hers, for this reason, is \"Ganymeda\", meaning \"Gladdening Princess\". She also drew baths for her brother Ares and helped Hera enter her chariot. She was often connected to Aphrodite, whom she was described dancing with and acting as her herald or attendant, linking the Classical association between beauty and youth. In Euripedes' play Orestes, Helen is said to sit on a throne beside Hera and Hebe upon obtaining immortality. In some traditions, her father Zeus gifted her two doves with human voices, one flew to where the Oracle of Dodona would be established.\n\nHebe was supposed to have the power to give eternal youth and to restore youth to mortals, a power that appears exclusive to her, as the in Ovid's Metamorphoses, the some gods lament their mortals aging. According to Philostratus the Elder, Hebe was youngest of the gods and responsible for keeping the other gods eternally young, and thus was highly revered by them. In art, she is typically seen with her father in the guise of an eagle, often offering a cup to her. This depiction is seen in classical engraved gems as well as later art and seems to relate to a belief that the eagle (like the phoenix) had the ability to renew itself to a youthful state.\n\nThe Greek ἥβη is the inherited word for \"youth\", from Proto-Indo-European *\"(H)iēg-eh-\", \"youth, vigour\".\n\nThe name \"Hebe\" comes from Greek word meaning \"youth\" or \"prime of life\". \"Juventus\" likewise means \"youth\", as can be seen in such derivatives as \"juvenile\".\n\nHebe is the daughter of Zeus and Hera and was seen in myth as a diligent daughter performing domestic tasks that were typical of high ranking, unmarried girls. In an alternative version of her birth, her mother became pregnant merely by eating a lettuce plant when dining with Apollo. Although there does not appear to be source from the classical era regarding the version of her paternity, it is referenced by American author Henry David Thoreau in his book \"Walden\", where Hebe is described as the daughter of Juno and wild lettuce.\n\nA fragment by Callimachus describes Hera holding a feast to celebrate the seventh day after her daughter Hebe’s birth. The gods have a friendly argument over who will give the best gift, with Athena, Poseidon, Apollo, and Hephaestus specifically mentioned as presenting toys or as in Apollo's case songs.\n\nAs the bride of Herakles, Hebe was strongly associated with her husband. In some depictions on Attic vase paintings, such as the Ricci Hydria dated to approximately 525 BC, Hebe drives a chariot and is the one who brings her future husband Herakles to Olympus from Earth upon his apotheosis, a role traditionally fulfilled by Athena. Hebe had two children with Heracles: Alexiares and Anicetus. Although nothing is known about these deities beyond their names, Callimachus makes a reference to Eileithyia, Hebe's sister, attending to her while in labour. In Euripides' play \"Heracleidae\" and in Ovid's Metamorphoses, Hebe grants Iolaus' wish to become young again in order to fight Eurystheus.\n\nHebe was particularly associated with the worship of her mother at Argos and in the Heraion of Argos, one of the main centres of worship of Hera. It was said that Hebe, in a statue made of ivory and gold, was depicted standing beside a very large statue of her mother Hera, which depicted the goddess seated holding a pomegranate and sceptre with a cuckoo perched on top. A relief made of silver above an alter depicted the marriage of Hebe and Heracles. Both of these depictions have been lost. It is possible the Hebe was worshipped as or represented the virginal aspect of Hera. \n\nHebe was also depicted, alongside Athena, standing beside a sitting statue of Hera in the Temple of Hera at Mantinea in Arkadia, sculptured by Praxiteles. Aelian also refer to Hebe being worshipped alongside her spouse Hercules in a temple dedicated to them both on an unknown location. \n\nHebe also had her own personal cult, and at least one temple in Greece dedicated to her personally. There was an altar to her in Athens, and her own temple in Sicyon, which where the center of her own cult. The Phliasians, who lived near Sicyon, honored Hebe (whom they called Dia) by pardoning supplicants. Hebe was also worshipped as a goddess of pardons or forgiveness; freed prisoners would hang their chains in the sacred grove of her sanctuary at Phlius.\nPausanias described the Temple of Hebe: \"A second hill on which the Phliasians [of Phlios in Argolis] have their citadel and their sanctuary of Hebe.\" He also described the cult of Hebe around the sanctuary:\n\nIn art, Hebe is usually depicted wearing a sleeveless dress, typically she was depicted with either one or both her parents, at her wedding ceremony, or with Aphrodite. \n\nIt is possible that she is one of the headless figures from the Parthenon pediment in the British Museum, as the figure stands as an attendant to Hera and is near Zeus and Ares. The position of the figure can indicate a child that is still dependent on their mother, as depictions of Eros with his mother Aphrodite have been equated to the figure. Hebe may have been the Acroterion on the Temple of Ares in the Athenian Agora. \n\nA notable depiction of Hebe comes from an Attic Black Figure dions dated to 580 - 570 B.C.E. held in the British Museum, depicting Hebe as part of a procession of gods arriving at the house of Peleus to celebrate his wedding to Thetis. Here, Hebe is the most prominent goddess in the procession, appearing alone and without a cloak covering her shoulders like most the other goddess in attendance. She wears an elaborate dress with the patterns of animals and geometric shapes and she wears earrings. Her hair is shown to be bound with three braids worn over her shoulder. Her prominent position may be due to her association with feasts, being the patron of brides, or because a mortal man is marrying a goddess, referencing her own marriage to Herakles. \n\nHebe was a remarkably popular subject in art in the period from about 1750 to 1880, having attracted little artistic attention before or after. In the later period, many depictions were portraits of ladies as Hebe, for which at a minimum the only modifications to a normal costume needed were a flowing white dress, some flowers in the hair and a cup to hold. Most artists added an eagle and a setting amid the clouds. In French there was a special term, \"en Hébé\", for the costume. The personification appears in rococo, Grand Manner and Neoclassical styles. Even some very aristocratic models allowed a degree of nudity, such as exposing a single breast, though this was often much greater in non-portrait depictions.\n\nJean-Marc Nattier painted a Rohan princess as Hebe in 1737, and then the royal Louise Henriette of Bourbon, Duchess of Orléans (1744) and another duchess the same year as Hebe, the latter with a breast exposed. François-Hubert Drouais painted Marie-Antoinette, when Dauphine, \"en Hébé\" in 1773, and Angelica Kauffman and Gaspare Landi both painted several Hebes. Louise Élisabeth Vigée Le Brun tells in her memoirs how she painted the 16-year-old Miss Anna Pitt, daughter of Thomas Pitt, Lord Camelford, as Hebe in Rome, with a real eagle she borrowed from Cardinal de Bernis. The bird was furious at being brought indoors to her studio and badly frightened her, though it looks relatively harmless in the painting (now in the Hermitage Museum). An entirely nude depiction by Ignaz Unterberger was a huge success in Vienna in 1795, and bought by Emperor Francis II for a large amount; the artist was also made a court painter.\n\nIn sculpture Hebe began to flourish as a subject slightly later, but continued longer. Hubert Gerhard created an early statue of Hebe in 1590 that is currently on display at the Detroit Institute of Arts, which depicts her naked, holding her dress in one hand and a cup raised above her head in another. She rests one foot upon a tortoise, a gesture associated with Aphrodite Urania. Antonio Canova sculpted four different versions of his statue of Hebe, and there are many later copies. This had no accompanying eagle, but including the bird was a challenge accepted by several later sculptors. An elaborate marble group with a naked Hebe and the eagle with wings outspread was started in 1852 by the elderly François Rude but unfinished by his death in 1855. Finished by his widow and another it is now in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Dijon and was very popular in bronze versions, with one in Chicago. Albert-Ernest Carrier-Belleuse produced another spectacular group, with the eagle perched above a sleeping Hebe (1869, now Musée d'Orsay, Paris). Jean Coulon (1853-1923) produced another group about 1886, with versions in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Nice, Nice and the Stanford Museum in California.\n\nEspecially in America, figures of Hebe continued to be popular in the late 19th century and early 20th century for garden fountains and temperance fountains, and statues were widely available in cast stone. Tarentum, Pennsylvania, United States displays two such cast stone statues of Hebe. The mold for these statues was donated to the borough by the Tarentum Book Club on 6 June 1912. In Vicksburg, Mississippi, the Bloom Fountain installed in 1927 near the municipal rose garden, thanks to a bequest of $6,500 in the will of Louis Bloom, features a Hebe of cast zinc. At Bowling Green, Kentucky, the Hebe fountain in Fountain Square follows Canova's model, in patinated cast iron, purchased in 1881 from the J. L. Mott Iron Works of New York, at a cost of $1500. Similar Hebe fountains, probably also from Mott, are located in Court Square, Memphis, Tennessee and in Montgomery, Alabama, and one with bronze patination was formerly the Starkweather Fountain in Ypsilanti, Michigan, installed in 1889.\n\nThere is a bronze statue of Hebe, by Robert Thomas; (1966), in Birmingham city centre, England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18791363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18791363", "title": "Hiroshi Ismael", "text": "Hiroshi Ismael\n\nHirosi Ismael (November 30, 1936 – July 25, 2008) became a Micronesian politician after ending his medical practice. Ismael served as the third Vice President of the Federated States of Micronesia from May 1987 until 1991.\n\nHe was born in 1936. Ismael was a native of Kosrae, but he grew up in Pohnpei where he attended school. He served in a variety of top positions within the United Nations' Administration of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands before the FSM achieved its independence.\n\nIsmael became the third Vice President of the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) in May 1987, a position he held until 1991. He returned to his home state of Kosrae after leaving office, where he wanted to live his live farming, read his books and go to church. Only after he was requested by some local politicians did he go back into politics but only on an advisory position to the then Governor of Kosrae, afterwards he felt that he had to go back to the medical field but only to help with the administrative side was he appointed the Director of Health Dept. He also became a Reverend to his church of Utwe. He was a simple man really who loved his fried chicken and Chinese checkers. When he found that he had cancer he went to the Philippines for treatments, after realizing the treatments were taking its toll on him, he decided to go back home and spend the rest of his life with his family. His last few hours were spent with his wife, daughter and grandchildren. His wife said that \"he went with a smile on his face\". Dr. Hirosi Ismael was a very humble man that only wanted what was good for the people of Kosrae and FSM and he lived his life by example.\n\nHirosi Ismael died on July 31, 2008, at his home in Kosrae at the age of 71. He was survived by his wife, Mitchigo Skilling, as well as their children: Greeno, Grant, Loto, Paul, Kenye and Ruth.\n\nThe Micronesian Government released a statement honoring Ismael following his August 1, 2008, memorial service praising him for his service to the country: \"Ismael's leadership, commitment and guidance during the nation's early efforts toward self-government earned him the respect of his colleagues and the people of the Federated States of Micronesia.\"\n"}
{"id": "23229922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23229922", "title": "Impedance–pH monitoring", "text": "Impedance–pH monitoring\n\nImpedance–pH monitoring is a technique used in the diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), by monitoring both impedance and pH.\n\nPatients with ongoing symptoms while on proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy are commonly diagnosed with impedance–pH monitoring while continuing their medications. The impedance–pH monitoring diagnostic test determines the frequency of reflux episodes and the time relationship of reflux episodes and symptoms. The impedance–pH monitoring test determines if the patient's symptoms are related to acid reflux, related to nonacid reflux, or not related to reflux of any type. A positive GERD diagnosis is made if acid or nonacid reflux precedes symptoms in a statistically meaningful manner. Patients with a positive impedance–pH monitoring test may benefit from acid-reduction therapy such as fundoplication surgery or endoscopic fundoplication techniques.\n"}
{"id": "31564512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31564512", "title": "International HIV/AIDS Alliance", "text": "International HIV/AIDS Alliance\n\nThe International HIV/AIDS Alliance (IHAA) is a global partnership of nationally based governmental and non-governmental organizations which support community organizations which promote HIV/AIDS issues in developing countries. The Alliance was created in November 1993 as the International Alliance Supporting Community Action on AIDS, and later renamed the International HIV/AIDS Alliance. The Alliance's founding Executive Director, from 1993 to 2003, was Jeffrey O'Malley. From 2003 until 2015, the Alliance was led by Alvaro Bermejo. The current Executive Director is Christine Stegling. \n\n"}
{"id": "45188696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45188696", "title": "International Psychoanalytic University Berlin", "text": "International Psychoanalytic University Berlin\n\nInternational Psychoanalytic University Berlin (IPU) is a private non-profit university in Berlin, Germany. It was founded in 2009 by the \"Gesellschaft zur Förderung der universitären Psychoanalyse mbH\" (Limited Liability Society to Promote University Psychoanalysis), initiated by Christa Rohde-Dachser and Jürgen Körner. The IPU commenced its teaching and research activities in the autumn of 2009.\n\nIPU Berlin has been state-recognized and was awarded its institutional accreditation by the German Council of Science and Humanities in November 2014.\n\nIPU Berlin's MA Psychology course was ranked first in the 2016 \"CHE Universityranking\" among Germany's psychology master programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "35855789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35855789", "title": "Iomazenil", "text": "Iomazenil\n\nIomazenil (also known as Ro16-0154, INN, USAN; benzodine) is an antagonist and partial inverse agonist of benzodiazepine and a potential treatment for alcohol abuse. The compound was introduced in 1989 by pharmaceutical company Hoffmann-La Roche as an Iodine-123-labelled SPECT tracer for imaging benzodiazepine receptors (GABA receptors) in the brain. Iomazenil is an analogue of flumazenil (Ro15-1788).\n\nI-labelled iomazenil can be used to image epileptic seizure foci as an alternative to F-fludeoxyglucose PET imaging.\n\nThe effect of iomazenil of reducing levels of GABA in the brain was used by researchers to exacerbate symptoms in patients with schizophrenia in a laboratory study, supporting the theory that a GABA deficiency underlies that disease.\n\nResearcher Deepak D'Souza and colleagues at Yale University and Veterans Affairs Connecticut Healthcare System are testing iomazenil as a potential treatment for drunkenness due to its ability to bind alcohol receptors in the brain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18845973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18845973", "title": "John Bosley Ziegler", "text": "John Bosley Ziegler\n\nJohn Bosley Ziegler (\"ca.\" 1920–1983) — known as John Ziegler and Montana Jack — was the American physician who originally developed the anabolic steroid Methandrostenolone (Dianabol, DBOL) which was released in the USA in 1958 by Ciba. He pioneered its athletic use as an aid to muscle growth by bodybuilders, administering it to U.S. weightlifting champion Bill March of the York Barbell club in 1959 when he was the physician to the U.S. Weightlifting team. It was banned by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under the Controlled Substances Act. In later life he was outspoken against its use in sport, saying \"It is bad enough to have to deal with drug addicts, but now healthy athletes are putting themselves in the same category. It's a disgrace. Who plays sports for fun anymore?\". Ziegler suffered from heart disease, which he partially ascribed to his experimentation with steroids, and he died from heart failure in 1983.\n\nZiegler was born in the Midwestern United States but he returned to his family roots in southern Pennsylvania and graduated from Gettysburg College in 1942. He was descended from three generations of doctors going back to the American Civil War, and his father had been both practicing physician and a scientist who had discovered the salt tablet.\n\nHe served as an officer in the United States Marine Corps in the Pacific in World War II, where he suffered extensive bullet wounds. His experience of surgery and convalescence lead to a speciality in recuperative medicine at the University of Maryland Medical School. He served his internship and residency at Marine hospitals in Norfolk Virginia and Mobile Alabama, before completing a two-year residence in neurology at Tulane University School of Medicine in New Orleans. In 1954 after he settled in Olney, Maryland he specialized in the treatment of handicapped and seriously injured patients whilst conducting part-time chemistry research at Ciba Pharmaceuticals in Summit, N.J.\n\nHe became an enthusiastic weightlifter who pumped iron at the York Barbell Club, which was at the center of American fitness training thanks to its owner Bob Hoffman. Hoffman had competed with Joe Weider and Charles Atlas for the title of Mr America and wrote the book \"Weight Lifting\" in 1939. Ziegler's scientific credentials supplemented Hoffman's bodybuilding theories. Ziegler befriended weightlifter and bodybuilder champion John Grimek who was employed by Hoffman.\n\nIn October 1954, Ziegler, went to Vienna with the American weightlifting team. There he met a Russian physicist who, over \"a few drinks\", repeatedly asked \"What are you giving your boys?\" When Ziegler returned the question, the Russian said that his own athletes were being given testosterone. Returning to America, Ziegler tried weak doses of testosterone on himself, on the American trainer Bob Hoffman and on three lifters, John Grimek, Jim Park and Yaz Kuzahara. All gained more weight and strength than any training programme would produce, but there were side-effects. With the research assistance of Ciba Pharmaceuticals, Ziegler began to look for synthetic substance that would mimic testosterone. Working at CIBA allowed Ziegler access to books and records from Germany where experiments with testosterone had been carried out by the Nazis, and which had been confiscated by the United States after the war. Ziegler sought a drug without after-effects and hit on an anabolic steroid, methandrostenolone (Dianabol, DBOL), made in the U.S. in 1958 by Ciba.\n\nZiegler gave Dianabol to the entire U.S. Olympic weightlifting team in Rome in 1960, but they still lost to the Soviets. He gave up experimentation with athletes when he learned that some who had taken 20 times the recommended dose of Dianabol had developed a liver condition. He was quoted in \"Science\" in 1972 saying \"I lost interest in fooling with IQ's of that caliber. Now it's about as widespread among these idiots as marijuana.\" In later years Ziegler regretted introducing AAS to athletes. He recollected \"but I wish to God now I’d never done it. I’d like to go back and take that whole chapter out of my life.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38754296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38754296", "title": "Lake Czorsztyn", "text": "Lake Czorsztyn\n\nLake Czorsztyn () is a man-made reservoir on the Dunajec river, southern Poland, between the Pieniny and the Gorce Mountains. It owes its existence to a dam, which is located in the village of Niedzica.\n\nThe dam itself was completed in 1995. Its measurements are: high, long and wide on top. The lake has the area ranging from to . Usually, its area is approximately , with the length of and width of . Maximum depth is , and average depth is . Total length of the shoreline is . Below the dam there is a much smaller Sromowce Lake, which regulates the water level of Czorsztyn Lake.\n\nMain purpose of the reservoir is to prevent floods in the Dunajec river valley. Furthermore, it attracts a growing number of tourists. The dam is equipped with a 92 megawatt power plant. The lake is located in close proximity of several popular tourist spots, such as Pieniny National Park, Niedzica Castle, Czorsztyn Castle, and the tourist village of Kluszkowce. Among villages located by Czorsztyn Lake are Niedzica, Falsztyn, Frydman, Dębno Podhalańskie, Maniowy, Kluszkowce and Czorsztyn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39311025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39311025", "title": "Lake Rangrim", "text": "Lake Rangrim\n\nLake Rangrim, also known as Lake Nangnim, is an artificial lake in the Rangrim Mountains of Chagang Province in northern North Korea. It was formed by damming a river valley to produce hydroelectricity. The lake, with its adjacent temperate broadleaf and mixed forest habitats, has been identified by BirdLife International as an 8600 ha Important Bird Area (IBA). The IBA lies at an altitude of 700–1700 m above sea level.\n"}
{"id": "2085917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2085917", "title": "Large-group communication", "text": "Large-group communication\n\nLarge group communication is a general description for organizational communication as a communication context describing large numbers of individuals who are members of a group. Large group contexts can include communities of interest, geography, or economy brought together by need or self-identification. A company is a large group communication context with specific media, language codes, and methods of interaction that distinguish it from other companies or other groups. Unlike small-group communication where members interact in primarily synchronous and personal ways, large groups use a host of synchronous and asynchronous methods and media.\n"}
{"id": "9025407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9025407", "title": "List of UN Numbers 3301 to 3400", "text": "List of UN Numbers 3301 to 3400\n\nThe UN numbers from UN3301 to UN3400 as assigned by the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "19311147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19311147", "title": "Madras motor neuron disease", "text": "Madras motor neuron disease\n\nMadras motor neuron disease (MMND) is a rare motor neuron disease originating in South India. Two other forms of the disease have been found, Familial Madras Motor Neuron Disease (FMMND) and the variant Madras Motor Neuron Disease (MMNDV). The symptoms of MMND include weakness in the arms and legs, loss of vision, and deafness. Most affected individuals are diagnosed by the age of 15 and occurs at the same frequency in males and females. While the cause of the disease and its origins are not yet known, supportive care is available to individuals affected by the disease.\n\nMadras motor neuron disease (MMND) is a motor neuron disease affecting primarily lower motor neurons. It is similar to Monomelic amyotrophy and primarily affects young adults in southern India.\n\nAuthors of a large case study, published in 2008, proposed that MMND be divided into two categories: spontaneously-arising MMND and Familial Madras Motor Neuron Disease (FMMND). Using this method, cases in which the disease is inherited would be categorized as FMMND, while cases that displayed no genetic linkage would be categorized as spontaneously-arising MMND.\n\nAccording to the same study, there is a variant form known as MMNDV, which is classified by additional optic atrophy.\n\nDue to the rareness of MMND, it is classified as a orphan disease.\n\nSymptoms of MMND begin appearing when people are young, often before the age of 15. An affected individual is generally thin with weak arms and legs. They may lose control of the muscles that control their face, mouth, nose, and throat. This in turn, will cause difficulties speaking and swallowing. Further complications from the loss of facial motor control include drooling, as well facial droop. People with MMND may also suffer from a loss of hearing and sight.\n\nThe cause of MMND has not yet been determined. There are cases where MMND appears to be inherited. However, no relevant genes have been identified.\n\nMMND affects many cranial nerves, particularly involving the 7th (facial nerve) and 9th to the 12th cranial nerves (in order: glossopharyngeal nerve, vagus nerve, accessory nerve, spinal accessory nerve).\nDiagnosis requires a neurological examination. A neuroimaging exam can also be helpful for diagnosis. For example, an MRI can be used to discover the atrophy of the specific brain regions.\n\nMMND can be differentially diagnosed from similar conditions like Fazio-Londe syndrome and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, in that those two conditions don't involve sensorineural hearing loss, while MMND, Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome (BVVLS), Nathalie syndrome, and Boltshauser syndrome do. Nathalie syndrome does not involve lower cranial nerve symptoms, so it can be excluded if those are present. If there is evidence of lower motor neuron involvement, Boltshauser syndrome can be excluded. Finally, if there is a family history of the condition, then BVVLS is more likely, as MMND tends to be sporadic.\n\nAs of 2010, there was no cure for MMND. People with MMND are given supportive care to help them cope, which can include physical therapy, occupational therapy, counselling, and hearing aids.\n\nPeople with MMND become progressively more weak with time. Generally, affected individuals survive up to 30 years after they are diagnosed.\n\nAs of 2008 under 200 cases have been reported worldwide. The disease affects males and females in equal rates. Most cases have arisen in Southern India in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, with others being reported in parts of Asia as well a Italy.\n\nMadras motor neuron disease was first described by Meenakshisundaram et al. in Chennai in 1970.\nA 2008 paper presented a study of 116 cases, observed over 36 years. The authors looked at the family trees of people with MMND, and found evidence for autosomal recessive inheritance in 15 of the 16 families studied, and autosomal dominant inheritance in the other. They also described postmortem studies of people with MMND, and found that the spinal cord had extreme loss of anterior horn cells and demyelination and sclerosis of the ventrolateral columns; which could explain peripheral weakness, paresthesias, or paralysis. They also found changes in the color of the myelin of the optic nerves, decreases in Purkinje cells, increase in Bergman glia, demyelination of fibers around the dentate nucleus with gliosis, swollen globular neurons of deep nuclei of the cerebellum, neural depletion and gliosis of the cochlear nucleus on both sides of the brainstem, and demyelination and axonal loss of the cochlear nerve. The authors said that the consistent findings of gliosis shows that inflammation in central nervous system is a key factor in how the disease harms people.\n"}
{"id": "4276018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4276018", "title": "Merck Veterinary Manual", "text": "Merck Veterinary Manual\n\nThe Merck Veterinary Manual is a reference manual of animal health care. It is published by Merck & Co., Inc. and Merial Limited. The \"Merck Veterinary Manual\" is available as a reference manual or as an online resource for veterinarians, veterinary students, and others involved in animal health care.\n\nThe \"Merck Veterinary Manual\" includes articles on the different organ systems and health issues which apply to many species of animal:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9130840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9130840", "title": "Obras Sociais Irmã Dulce", "text": "Obras Sociais Irmã Dulce\n\nThe Charitable Works Foundation of Sister Dulce, known by its Portuguese acronym as OSID, is a private non-profit philanthropic organization, established on May 26, 1959 by Brazilian Catholic nun Sister Dulce.\n\nIt consists of 14 nuclei, 13 of them at the Roma Hospital Complex, a 1.000 bed teaching hospital, in Salvador, Bahia. OSID also operates CESA (Santo Antonio Educational Center), a school that provides free education and social services for 800 children who live in extreme poverty, in Simões Filho, one of the most impoverished cities in the metropolitan region of Salvador.\n\nOSID provides health, welfare and education services, with a strong commitment to medical education and research and a mission to \"love and serve the poorest ones, offering them free health care and education\".\n\nIt is chartered under Brazilian law; accredited at federal, state and municipal levels; and registered by the National Welfare Council and the Federal Ministry of Education.\n\nOSID was founded by Sister Dulce in 1959, as a result of her work with the poor people in Salvador.\n\nSince 1949, the Servant of God had been providing health care for over 70 people in her convent's chicken yard. Then, the lack of physical structure was compensated by Sister Dulce's tireless determination and managerial capacity and the volunteer support of friendly doctors and the community as a whole. Sister Dulce used to walk the streets both at night, searching for sick people who had nowhere to go, and during the day, collecting food, medicines and whatever else people donated.\n\nIn 1960, a year after the foundation of OSID, the Santo Antônio Hospital, then with 150 beds, was inaugurated.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, the organization went through of structural consolidation. An advisory council was established in order to help Sister Dulce manage OSID. During that time, a medical residency program was put in place.\n\nAfter that period, expanding the services and ensuring the permanence of OSID became the main concern of Sister Dulce. In 1983, the new 1.000 beds Santo Antônio Hospital was inaugurated. Relation with the business sector and with the government were increased and an effort is made to make the management of the organization more professional.\n\nIn the late 1980s, due to economical instability and increased patient demand, OSID wentthrough a financial crisis, which worsened with Sister Dulce's deteriorating health condition. The institution established an agreement with INAMPS (National Social Security Institute for Medical Assistance), currently INSS. The agreement was still valid after the federal public health system was unified by SUS (Sistema Único de Saúde, or United Health System).\n\nAt that time, already very debilitated, Sister Dulce expressed her wish that her niece Maria Rita Pontes was placed at the head of OSID, which takes place in 1992.\n\nOn March 13, 1992, Sister Dulce died. The death of its founder put the future of OSID in doubt and the institution focused on their mission, in order to overcome the obstacles.\n\nIn the decade after Sister Dulce's death, OSID inaugurated 6 new nuclei, along with a Pediatric and an Adult Intensive Care Center and the Center for Admission and Treatment of Alcoholics (CATA). The Santo Antonio Educacional Center started taking care of over 600 children, offering them free basic and technical education.\n\nSince 2000, the organization reformed its organizational structure and invested in strategic areas like Information technology, research, communication and company history, in order to support the increase in services provided ant to make possible a secure planning in the next years, facing self-sustainability as its biggest challenge. In 2001, OSID was awarded the ISO 9001–2000 certificate.\n\nAfter a period of planned growth, inflation, loss of revenue and even bigger increase in patient demand (21,75% in Santo Antônio Hospital), caused OSID to go through another financial crisis in 2003, forcing the management to cut down on its expenses severely.\n\nNowadays, 14 years after the death of its founder, OSID is the major health institution in the north and northeast of Brazil. OSID is responsible for the majority of patients service in the state of Bahia and is one of the top ten in the entire country.\n\nIt is the only health institution in Brazil with more than 1.000 beds provided exclusively on a public-care basis through SUS. The Roma Hospital Complex has 1.009 beds and houses, approximately, 400 in-patients in residencial care facilities for the elderly. The hallmark of OSID is humanized care and the practice of providing free services is faithful to Sister Dulce's wish of always keeping her door open to the needy.\n\nToday, OSID owns 173.000 square meters of land, of which 39.000 square meters are occupied by constructed facilities at the Roma Hospital complex.\n\n\nWith 17 medical specialties for patients, approximately 1,000 surgeries are performed each month at HSA. In 2002, HSA's surgical center was accredited under ISO 9001:2000 and registered 14,500 hospitalizations. The hospital has 10 wards, divided into Medical Care, Long-Term Medical Care (chronic patients), Surgery, Peritoneal Dialysis, Physiology, and an Intensive Care Unit (ICU). The hospital also houses a medical teaching unit, the Professor Adib Jatene Center, for Teaching and Research (CEPPAJ). Ten areas of medical specialization are offered by CEPPAJ and, at any given time, approximately 300 residents and interns are all working to receive their professional qualifications.\n\n\nThe Ambulatory is the entrance door for all who come to OSID for health care. With 33 medical specialties and a Physical Therapy Unit complete with state-of-the-art equipment, the Ambulatory provides services to approximately 3,000 people every day (or a total of almost 100,000 patient services each month).\n\n\nThe Children's Hospital is widely considered an exemplary model of humanistic services for pediatric patients. The hospital has 102 beds, an Intensive Care Unit (ICU), and a variety of surgical and clinical specializations. Providing services to children and adolescents up to the age of eighteen, the hospital's facilities are adapted to accommodate different age groups. The hospital's model of patient care relies heavily on support from mothers (and fathers) as care givers. The hospital, which combines health care and socio-educational programs such as the School in the Hospital and Family Health, is also an important resource in Bahia for the treatment of children who are victims of abuse. It is also the only health center in Bahia that complies with all the Ministry of Justice's requirements regarding the rights of hospitalized children and adolescents.\n\n\nFocusing on holistic services for women, the D. Dulcinha Women's Clinic provided 128,000 patient services in 2005, including ambulatory and cancer prevention gynecology procedures. A strong focus on psychological assistance for patients and family planning guidance is an integral part of the clinic\n\n\nGiving priority to citizenship and the social insertion of people with special needs, CRPD provides out-patient and in-patient assistance to 123 residents. In 2005, its Information Technology Program, which was awarded the Banco do Brazil/Unesco Award of Social Technology, provided training and developmental activities for 150 students with special needs.\n\n\nAs a mirror of Sister Dulce's philosophy, the nucleus provides services to socially disabled patients (people who live on the streets, alcoholics, and those with moderate physical and mental disabilities). The center has 188 beds and recorded 1,051 in-patient services in 2005. At present, the center houses 30 residents—socially disabled patients with no family reference. CMSALP is also the only center in Bahia which provides in-patient services for alcoholics. In addition to recorded hospitalizations, the Center for Assisting and Treating Alcoholism (CATA) provided 11,743 out-patient services in 2005 including detoxification, welfare, social and psychological assistance, and occupational therapy.\n\nIn 2005, the BioImaging Nuclei, equipped with state-of-the-art technology, performed 98,224 tests, including digestive tract endoscopies, mammograms, ultra-sonograms, echocardiograms, and tomograms (CAT scans). It is the only center in the state of Bahia to perform CAT scans on a public care basis through SUS (United Health System). For some procedures, the cost of the material, provided free-of-charge to patients, is more expensive than the costs reimbursed by the SUS.\n\n\nConsidered a national point of reference by the Ministry of Health for the correction of craniofacial anomalies, a condition which affects approximately 30,000 people in Bahia, Centrinho is Brazil's second leading recovery center for facial cleft patients. In 2005, it provided 134,416 patient services and 1,192 surgeries. Its multidisciplinary services focus on special areas including: Speech Therapy, Medical Care, Ortorhinology, Psychology, Pediatrics, Plastic Surgery, Nursing, Social Service, Odontology, Buccomaxilillary, Facial Surgery and Stomatology. The Antalgic Therapy Clinic, which is part of the nucleus, operates under the philosophy of holistic recovery and expert integration for the treatment of patients with chronic pain.\n\n\nIn Simões Filho, one of the poorest cities in the state of Bahia, OSID operates the Santo Antonio Educational Center (CESA—Centro Educacional Santo Antonio). At CESA, OSID provides free educational programs for approximately 800 children and youth ranging from 6 to 19 years of age. CESA offers basic education in accordance with the guidelines of the Brazilian Federal Ministry of Education. In addition, CESA has developed a complementary program of educational, physical and professional development activities to help students learn more effectively and enrich their lives.\n\nIn order to include these complementary activities, CESA has adopted a full-time educational model where the students spent the whole day at the institution participating in different types of activities meant to complement their elementary education within diversified learning environments. Students have access to a state-of-the-art computer laboratory and multi-media presentation center, a library, sports and entertainment programs including Capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial arts and dance discipline. There are also specialized courses for young people over the age of 17 who are preparing to become professional bakers and electricians and a special program to help young women prepare for careers in commercial decorating and painting.\n\nAmong the trade courses offered by the CESA, the bakery program offers a credential from SENAI (a federal training institution for technicians and tradesmen) and stands out, having achieved significant levels of job placement within the local economy.\n\nOSID provides everything free-of-charge to CESA students, including basic health care, dental care, course materials, prepared meals and family counseling. All of this represents a tremendous advantage in a region where 85% of families survive on less than one US dollar a day per person and some families have no income whatsoever. OSID operates the programs at CESA in keeping with its core philosophy of helping at-risk children and youth recover their citizenship.\n\n\nCGJM is the only institution in Bahia recognized by the Ministry of Health to provide a full range of services for the elderly including out-patients, in-patients, and members of the community. The center performed 49,745 procedures in 2005 in addition to the in-patient services provided for its 83 long-term residents. The center offers programs including Third Age Education, Gymnastics, Cultural and Familiarity Group, as well as a special program for dementia caused by Alzheimer's disease. The center also provides assistance including health advice and physical and recreational activities to elderly members of the community.\n\n\nThe Taciano Campos Laboratory performed 967,000 tests in 2005, all on a public care basis through SUS (United Health System). The laboratory has been awarded the Gold Award Certificate of the Brazilian Society of Clinical Analysis which is granted to laboratories that have received a rating of \"excellent\" for monthly audits performed over a ten-year period.\n\n\nCPEC's objectives relate specifically to research on social pathologies and focus on improving therapies, diagnosis and prevention of prevailing diseases which affect the needy. The advanced technical level of CPEC has helped make it one of the world's leading centers for the research and development of vaccines which target the prevention of cervical and prostate cancer. The center's excellence in research is reflected by strong partnerships with the Osvaldo Cruz Foundation (Fiocruz) and Cornell University and the University of California, Berkeley in the United States, as well as countless publications of papers in Brazilian and international scientific journals. At the present time, CPEC is concentrating its efforts on the research programs including: bacterial resistance to antibiotics, virus HTLV II infection, Helicobacter Pylori infections, prevention and control of visceral leishmaniasis, a vaccine to prevent HPV/cervical cancer, urinary tract infections from escherichia coli, epidemiology of masculine aging, and a vaccine to prevent prostate cancer.\nOSID's Memorial, its 14th Nuclei, preserves the history of Sister Dulce's life and institutional history. Documents and photos, which trace the path followed by the one called the Mother of the Poor and the Good Angel of Bahia, are filed in the nucleus. Sister Dulce's Memorial houses approximately three thousand testimonies of the graces that were obtained. The investment in its perpetuation has as its pillar the Sister's canonization process, which started in January 2000 with the aim of having the Catholic Church acknowledge the virtues and the tireless determination of one of God's Servants who dedicated her life to the needy. Presently, the process, whose postulator is an Italian Friar, Paolo Lombardo, is following the procedural steps from the Congregation to the Cause of Saints in the Vatican. With the presentation of the Positio, a canonic law text that summarizes the process and the history of the virtues and the possible miracle already identified by the Vatican, the beatification is getting closer. As part of the work in favor of this cause, OSID has invested in the dissemination of Sister Dulce's life, launching a book of thoughts and her biography, as well as the construction of the Church of Our Lady of the Conception of God's mother. As a symbol of Sister Dulce's legacy of action and faith, the church building complies with the Vatican's recommendation as reinforcement to the beatification process and gives more institutional feasibility to OSID.\n\nStarted in the 1970s, the work of the Medical Education OSID, consolidated from the 1990s, has residencies in the specialties of Internal Medicine, General Surgery, Maxillofacial Surgery, Anesthesiology, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Pediatric Surgery, Geriatrics, Pediatrics, Pediatric Intensive Care, Urology, Pediatrics Hematologic, Head and Neck Surgery and Boarding school in the specialties of Gynecology, Pediatrics, Internal Medicine and General Surgery.\n\nThe faculty is composed of preceptors, masters and doctors, serving approximately 500 residents and interns from Brazil and abroad. Students have, in addition to hospital structure, with a unique space for lectures and seminars and lectures, the Center for Teaching and Research Professor Adib Jatene (CEPPAJ).\n"}
{"id": "1227310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1227310", "title": "Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy", "text": "Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy\n\nPercutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) is an endoscopic medical procedure in which a tube (PEG tube) is passed into a patient's stomach through the abdominal wall, most commonly to provide a means of feeding when oral intake is not adequate (for example, because of dysphagia or sedation). This provides enteral nutrition (making use of the natural digestion process of the gastrointestinal tract) despite bypassing the mouth; enteral nutrition is generally preferable to parenteral nutrition (which is only used when the GI tract must be avoided). The PEG procedure is an alternative to open surgical gastrostomy insertion, and does not require a general anesthetic; mild sedation is typically used. PEG tubes may also be extended into the small intestine by passing a jejunal extension tube (PEG-J tube) through the PEG tube and into the jejunum via the pylorus.\n\nPEG administration of enteral feeds is the most commonly used method of nutritional support for patients in the community. Many stroke patients, for example, are at risk of aspiration pneumonia due to poor control over the swallowing muscles; some will benefit from a PEG performed to maintain nutrition. PEGs may also be inserted to decompress the stomach in cases of gastric volvulus.\n\nGastrostomy may be indicated in numerous situations, usually those in which normal (or nasogastric) feeding is impossible. The causes for these situations may be neurological (e.g. stroke), anatomical (e.g. cleft lip and palate during the process of correction) or other (e.g. radiation therapy for tumors in head & neck region).\n\nIn certain situations where normal or nasogastric feeding is not possible, gastrostomy may be of no clinical benefit. In advanced dementia, studies show that PEG placement does not in fact prolong life. Instead, oral assisted feedings are preferable. Quality improvement protocols have been developed with the aim of reducing the number of non-beneficial gastrostomies in patients with dementia.\n\nA gastrostomy can be placed to decompress the stomach contents in a patient with a malignant bowel obstruction. This is referred to as a \"venting PEG\" and is placed to prevent and manage nausea and vomiting.\n\nA gastrostomy can also be used to treat volvulus of the stomach, where the stomach twists along one of its axes. The tube (or multiple tubes) is used for gastropexy, or adhering the stomach to the abdominal wall, preventing twisting of the stomach.\n\nA PEG tube can be used in providing gastric or post-surgical drainage.\n\nTwo major techniques for placing PEGs have been described in the literature.\n\nThe Gauderer-Ponsky technique involves performing a gastroscopy to evaluate the anatomy of the stomach. The anterior stomach wall is identified and techniques are used to ensure that there is no organ between the wall and the skin:\nAn angiocath is used to puncture the abdominal wall through a small incision, and a soft guidewire is inserted through this and pulled out of the mouth. The feeding tube is attached to the guidewire and pulled through the mouth, esophagus, stomach, and out of the incision.\n\nIn the Russell introducer technique, the Seldinger technique is used to place a wire into the stomach, and a series of dilators are used to increase the size of the gastrostomy. The tube is then pushed in over the wire.\n\nAs with other types of feeding tubes, care must be made to place PEGs into an appropriate population. The following are contraindications to PEG use:\n\n\n\nThe American Medical Directors Association, the American Geriatrics Society and the American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine recommend against inserting percutaneous feeding tubes in individuals with advanced dementia and, instead, recommend oral assisted feedings. Artificial nutrition neither prolongs life nor improves its quality in patients with advanced dementia. It may increase the risk of the patient inhaling food, it does not reduce suffering, it may cause fluid overload, diarrhea, abdominal pain and local complications, and can reduce the amount of human interaction the patient experiences.\n\n\n\nPEG tubes with rigid, fixed \"bumpers\" are removed endoscopically. The PEG tube is pushed into the stomach so that part of the tube is visible behind the bumper. An endoscopy snare is then passed through the endoscope, and passed over the bumper so that the tube adjacent to the bumper is grasped. The external part of the tube is then cut, and the tube is withdrawn into the stomach, and then pulled up into the esophagus and removed through the mouth. The PEG site heals without intervention.\n\nPEG tubes with a collapsible or deflatable bumper can be removed using traction (simply by pulling the PEG tube out through the abdominal wall).\n\nThe first percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy performed on a child was on June 12, 1979 at the Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital, University Hospitals of Cleveland. Dr. Michael W.L. Gauderer, pediatric surgeon, Dr. Jeffrey Ponsky, endoscopist, and Dr. James Bekeny, surgical resident, performed the procedure on a -month-old child with inadequate oral intake. The authors of the technique, Dr. Michael W.L. Gauderer and Dr. Jeffrey Ponsky, first published the technique in 1980. In 2001, the details of the development of the procedure were published, the first author being the originator of the technique itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39068712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39068712", "title": "PolyIran", "text": "PolyIran\n\nThe PolyIran study is a pragmatic open-labeled randomized trial being conducted within Golestan cohort study (GCS) on 31000 subjects in 305 villages of Golestan Province, northeastern Iran. The pill used in this study namely \"Polypill\", has been successfully evaluated in a pilot study and consists of 4 components. It is estimated to decrease the death rate due to myocardial infarction and stroke by 30-53% . Participants were enrolled to the study during February 2011 and April 2013. The study will directly evaluate effect of Polypill tablet on cardiovascular death and hospitalizations compared to life style modification during 5 years of follow-up; unlike most of the studies that only investigate the impact of Polypill on indirect surrogate markers of cardiovascular diseases such as blood pressure or lipid profile. The study includes three arms. The first and largest arm (24000 subjects) are being just followed and receive no particular care other than care provided by governmental health system in Iran (usual care arm). The second arm (3500 subjects) receive recommendation about healthy lifestyle in face to face interviews and pamphlets, undergo blood pressure measurements in 6 months regular intervals and are referred to secondary or tertiary medical centers for treatment upon necessity(minimal care arm). The third arm (another 3500 subjects) receive Polypill once daily in addition to care provided to minimal care arm (Polypill arm) . In case of a substantial decrease in mortality in Polypill arm at the end of the study, Polypill might be offered to all individuals above 50 years old as a cheap preventive alternative for cardiovascular diseases .\n"}
{"id": "52671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52671", "title": "Psychosomatic medicine", "text": "Psychosomatic medicine\n\nPsychosomatic medicine is an interdisciplinary medical field exploring the relationships among social, psychological, and behavioral factors on bodily processes and quality of life in humans and animals.\n\nThe academic forebear of the modern field of behavioral medicine and a part of the practice of consultation-liaison psychiatry, psychosomatic medicine integrates interdisciplinary evaluation and management involving diverse specialties including psychiatry, psychology, neurology, internal medicine, surgery, allergy, dermatology and psychoneuroimmunology. Clinical situations where mental processes act as a major factor affecting medical outcomes are areas where psychosomatic medicine has competence.\n\nSome physical diseases are believed to have a mental component derived from the stresses and strains of everyday living. This has been suggested, for example, of lower back pain and high blood pressure, which some researchers have suggested may be related to stresses in everyday life. However, within a psychosomatic framework, mental and emotional states are seen as capable of significantly influencing the course of any physical illness. Psychiatry traditionally distinguishes between psychosomatic disorders, disorders in which mental factors play a significant role in the development, expression, or resolution of a physical illness, and somatoform disorders, disorders in which mental factors are the sole cause of a physical illness.\nFreud gave the world the famous theory of the \"unconscious\" as a product of displacement. As a result, as mentioned earlier, some fairly serious diseases fell into the category of \"hysterical\" or \"psychosomatic\". We are talking about the following diseases: asthma, allergies, imaginary pregnancy, headache and migraine. Freud himself said the following: \"If we chase some problem into the door, then it enters through the window in the form of a symptom of diseases.\" Thus, a person can not avoid the disease if he does not solve the problem, but simply ignores it.\nThe basis of psychosomatics is the mechanism of psychological protection-displacement. This means something like this: each of us tries to drive away thoughts that are unpleasant to him. In the end, we simply reject problems, not solve them. We do not analyze problems because we are afraid to look them in the eye and face them directly. It is much easier to close your eyes to them, try not to think about unpleasant things. Unfortunately, the displacement in this way, problems don't disappear, they just move on to another level. All our problems, as a result, are transformed from the social level (that is, interpersonal relationships) or psychological (unfulfilled desires, our dreams and aspirations, suppressed emotions, internal conflicts), to the level of our physiology. Stress is a part of our everyday life. Stress is normal. There is good stress, and of course, bad stress. Good stress can motivate someone to do better. According to an article, \"The Effects of Stress on Your Body\", “For immediate, short-term situations, stress can be beneficial to your health. It can help you cope with potentially serious situations. Your body responds to stress by releasing hormones that increase your heart and breathing rates and ready you muscles to respond” (healthline.com).\n\nPsych means mind or psyche and soma, meaning body.  The term Psychosomatic disorder has mainly been used to define a physical disease that has been cause or made worse by mental factors or mental factors can cause physical symptoms but there is no evidence of a disease  (centerforaxietydisorders.com). An example headaches or chest pain can be caused by someone who is under a lot of stress, but no physical disease can be found to back the evidence up. Anxiety and stress can make the physical symptoms worse than what they were before. For example, if someone has headaches, the headaches can be made worse if someone us experiencing a lot of anxiety and/or stress. “Physical symptoms that are cause by mental factors are also called somatization or somatoform disorders” (centerforanxietydisorders.com). Symptoms such as headaches, chest pain, pain in the arms and legs or other limbs, sickness and weak immune symptoms, are caused by increased activity of the nervous impulses that are sent from the brain to other parts of the body. “A number of factors may play a role in psychosomatic disorders, such as personality traits; genetic or environmental family influences; biological factors; learned behavior and more” (centerforaxietydisorders.com). A person’s current mental state is important. \n\nThe best way to deal with stress is to learn how to manage it effectively. Some helpful tips to managing stress are practicing mindfulness. Mindfulness is the state or quality of being conscious or aware of something. This can be achieved by focusing yourself awareness on something that is present, in the moment, while calmly acknowledging and accepting one’s  circumstances, feelings, emotions, senses, thoughts, and bodily sensations. Some examples of mindfulness are yoga, meditating, taking an object and focusing on the texture, feel, and smell. Drinking a cup of warm tea and feeling the heat from the cup, being released into your palms. Taking a hot shower to release tension, self-care, getting an adequate amount of sleep, reading a book, taking a walk, there are so many positive ways to reduce stress and these things should be incorporated in everyday life. \n\n“Psychosomatic medicine is an interdisciplinary medical field exploring the relationships among social, psychological, and behavioral factors on bodily processes and quality of life in humans and animals” (disabled-world.com). \n\nPsychosomatic disorders can be classified into three different forms or categories: \n\nThe first form is can include those who have both, a medical symptoms and mental illness. \n\nThe second form would be those who experience a psychiatric issue that can be direct result of a medical illness and/ or the treatment. An example for this can be someone who is depressed due to a chronic or terminal illness such as cancer.\n\nThe third form is somatoform disorders. These are more of the psychiatric disorders that derive from physical issues. These disorders are based from physical disorders that result to psychological factors. They include the following: somatization (physical), conversion (neurological), body dysmorphic obsession with image), and hypochondriasis disorders(fear of having a disease). Treatment for psychosomatic disorders can include referral to a psychiatrist, medication, or treatments such as CBT. “Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) is often the treatment of choice for a psychosomatic disorder. This therapy helps patients learn new ways to cope with and solve their problems as they gain a deeper understanding of their condition or circumstances. Patients will also learn to set realistic life goals and identify and change behaviors or thoughts that have negative effects on their lives” (centerforanxietydisorders.com). \n\nThe best way to deal with stress is to learn how to manage it effectively. Some helpful tips to managing stress are practicing mindfulness. Mindfulness is the state or quality of being conscious or aware of something. This can be achieved by focusing yourself awareness on something that is present, in the moment, while calmly acknowledging and accepting one’s  circumstances, feelings, emotions, senses, thoughts, and bodily sensations. Some examples of mindfulness are yoga, meditating, taking an object and focusing on the texture, feel, and smell. Drinking a cup of warm tea and feeling the heat from the cup, being released into your palms. Taking a hot shower to release tension, self-care, getting an adequate amount of sleep, reading a book, taking a walk, there are so many positive ways to reduce stress and these things should be incorporated in everyday life.\n\nIt is difficult to establish for certain whether an illness has a psychosomatic component. A psychosomatic component is often inferred when there are some aspects of the patient's presentation that are unaccounted for by biological factors, or some cases where there is no biological explanation at all. For instance, \"Helicobacter pylori\" causes 80% of peptic ulcers. However, most people living with \"Helicobacter pylori\" do not develop ulcers, and 20% of patients with ulcers have no \"H. pylori\" infection. Therefore, in these cases, psychological factors could still play some role. Similarly, in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), there are abnormalities in the behavior of the gut. However, there are no actual structural changes in the gut, so stress and emotions might still play a role.\n\nThe strongest perspective on psychosomatic disorders is that attempting to distinguish between purely physical and mixed psychosomatic disorders is increasingly obsolete as almost all physical illness have mental factors that determine their onset, presentation, maintenance, susceptibility to treatment, and resolution. According to this view, even the course of serious illnesses, such as cancer, can potentially be influenced by a person's thoughts, feelings and general state of mental health.\n\nAddressing such factors is the remit of the applied field of behavioral medicine. In modern society, psychosomatic aspects of illness are often attributed to stress making the remediation of stress one important factor in the development, treatment, and prevention of psychosomatic illness.\n\nIn the field of psychosomatic medicine, the phrase \"psychosomatic illness\" is used more narrowly than it is within the general population. For example, in lay language, the term often encompasses illnesses with no physical basis at all, and even illnesses that are faked (malingering). In contrast, in contemporary psychosomatic medicine, the term is normally restricted to those illnesses that do have a clear physical basis, but where it is believed that psychological and mental factors also play a role. Some researchers within the field believe that this overly broad interpretation of the term may have caused the discipline to fall into disrepute clinically. For this reason, among others, the field of behavioral medicine has taken over much of the remit of psychosomatic medicine in practice and there exist large areas of overlap in the scientific research.\n\nAlthough lay persons may interpret the field to suggest that a person's mental state can influence the course and severity of even the most severe physical diseases, experts in this area scientifically evaluate such claims through empirical research. For example, early evidence suggested that patients with advanced-stage cancer may be able to survive longer if provided with psychotherapy to improve their social support and outlook. However, a major review published in 2007, which evaluated the evidence for these benefits, concluded that no studies meeting the minimum quality standards required in this field have demonstrated such a benefit. The review further argues that unsubstantiated claims that \"positive outlook\" or \"fighting spirit\" can help slow cancer may be harmful to the patients themselves if they come to believe that their poor progress results from \"not having the right attitude\".\n\nOn the other hand, psychosomatic medicine criticizes the current approach of medical doctors disregarding psychodynamic ideas in their daily practice. For example, it questions the broad acceptance of self-proclaimed diseases such as gluten-intolerance, Lyme disease and Fibromyalgia as a gain of illness for patients to avoid the underlying intra-psychic conflicts eliciting the disease, while at the same time, challenging the reasons for this neglect in the doctors’ own avoidance of their emotional intra-psychic conflict.\n\nWhile in the US, psychosomatic medicine is considered a subspecialty of the fields of psychiatry and neurology, in Germany and other European countries it is considered a subspecialty of internal medicine. Thure von Uexküll and contemporary physicians following his thoughts regard the psychosomatic approach as a core attitude of medical doctors, thereby declaring it not as a subspecialty, but rather an integrated part of every specialty. Medical treatments and psychotherapy are used to treat illnesses believed to have a psychosomatic component.\n\nIn the medieval Islamic world the Persian psychologist-physicians Ahmed ibn Sahl al-Balkhi (d. 934) and Haly Abbas (d. 994) developed an early model of illness that emphasized the interaction of the mind and the body. They proposed that a patient's physiology and psychology can influence one another.\n\nIn the beginnings of the 20th century, there was a renewed interest in psychosomatic concepts. Psychoanalyst Franz Alexander had a deep interest in understanding the dynamic interrelation between mind and body. Sigmund Freud pursued a deep interest in psychosomatic illnesses following his correspondence with Georg Groddeck who was, at the time, researching the possibility of treating physical disorders through psychological processes.\n\nIn the 1970s, Thure von Uexküll and his colleagues in Germany and elsewhere proposed a biosemiotic theory (the umwelt concept) that was widely influential as a theoretical framework for conceptualizing mind-body relations.\n\nHenri Laborit, one of the founders of modern neuropsychopharmacology, carried out experiments in the 1970s that showed that illness quickly occurred when there was inhibition of action in rats. Rats in exactly the same stressful situations but whom were not inhibited in their behavior (those who could flee or fight – even if fighting is completely ineffective) had no negative health consequences. He proposed that psychosomatic illnesses in humans largely have their source in the constraints that society puts on individuals in order to maintain hierarchical structures of dominance. The film \"My American Uncle\", directed by Alain Resnais and influenced by Laborit, explores the relationship between self and society and the effects of the inhibition of action.\n\n"}
{"id": "34894081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34894081", "title": "Richard Bellucci", "text": "Richard Bellucci\n\nRichard Bellucci (April 22, 1914December 22, 2005) was an American inventor, surgeon, and otolaryngologist. He invented the Bellucci micro scissors and his notable for his work in the field of microscopic ear surgery. Bellucci served as the president of the American Otological Society and as the chairman of otolaryngology at New York Medical College and the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital.\n\nBellucci pioneered use of the stapedectomy to successfully treat patients with ostosclerosis and hearing impairment. He also pioneered the use of a microscope in ear surgery.\n\nBellucci was born in New York City in a family of Italian immigrants. He graduated from New York University with B.S. and M.S. degrees in 1936 and 1938, respectively. He graduated from Creighton University School of Medicine in Omaha, Nebraska in 1942 with an M.D. degree.\n"}
{"id": "57896867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57896867", "title": "Sciensano", "text": "Sciensano\n\nSciensano is a research institute and the national public health institute of Belgium. It is a so-called federal scientific institution that operates under the authority of the federal minister of Public Health and the federal minister of Agriculture of Belgium. Sciensano's core business is scientific research in the fields of public health, animal health and food safety. Sciensano arose in 2017 from the merger of the former Veterinary and Agrochemical Research Centre (in Dutch: \"Centrum voor Onderzoek in Diergeneeskunde en Agrochemie\", in French: \"Centre d’Étude et de Recherches Vétérinaires et Agrochimiques\", often shortened to CODA-CERVA) and the former Scientific Institute of Public Health (in Dutch: \"Wetenschappelijk Instituut Volksgezondheid\", in French: \"Institut Scientifique de Santé Publique\", often shortened to WIV-ISP). Both institutions were merged because of their complementary activities and to be able to provide a comprehensive answer to the health challenges of the future. More particularly, the merger was based on the One Health principle that states that the areas of human health, animal health and the environment are inherently connected with each other. The merger became official on April 1, 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8571929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8571929", "title": "Smoking room", "text": "Smoking room\n\nA smoking room (or smoking lounge) is a room which is specifically provided and furnished for smoking, generally in buildings where smoking is otherwise prohibited.\n\nSmoking rooms can be found in public buildings such as airports, and in semi-public buildings such as workplaces. Such rooms are equipped with chairs, ashtrays and ventilation, and usually free to enter although there may be a smoking age restriction (usually 18). A cigarette company sometimes sponsors these smoking rooms, displaying its brand names on the room walls and financing the room or its maintenance. Cigarette companies have worked hard to ensure smoking was accommodated in major airports, which are high-profile locations serving many people who are often bored or nervous. Initially providing smoking and no smoking areas was their goal but when that policy failed they fell back on ventilated smoking rooms.\n\nWhen the Crimean War during the 1850s popularized Turkish tobacco, smoking gained in fashionable popularity but was considered indelicate. After dinner in a large private house, the gentlemen might retreat from the ladies to a smoking room, furnished with velvet curtains and decorated to masculine tastes (wealthy owners would often choose Turkish themes and weapons collections), and replace his tail coat with a comfortable velvet smoking jacket and cap. The velvet was intended to absorb the smoke, to avoid contaminating other rooms and clothes.\n\nIn the United Kingdom smoking is illegal in any enclosed place where staff are employed, so that smoking rooms cannot be provided and facilities must be outdoors; apart from private homes, almost the only legal exception is for smoking rooms in tobacconists where customers may sample the wares. Mental health units in the NHS providing long term in-patient care also have an exemption allowing the provision of designated smoking rooms for patients. The Houses of Parliament, where these laws were passed, are a Royal palace, so are also exempt.\n"}
{"id": "652949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652949", "title": "Sopor (sleep)", "text": "Sopor (sleep)\n\nSopor is a condition of abnormally deep sleep or a stupor from which it is difficult to rouse. It involves a profound depression of consciousness, which is manifested by drowsiness, while maintaining coordinated defensive reactions to stimuli such as pain, harsh sound, and bright light, and preserving vital functions. Sopor may be caused by a drug; such drugs are deemed soporific. A stupor is more severe than a sopor. \n\nThe name is derived from Latin \"sopor\" (cognate with the Latin noun \"somnus\" and the Greek noun ὐπνος, \"hypnos\").\n\nSoporous states can be caused traumatic, vascular, inflammatory, neoplastic, and toxic lesions of the brain.\n\nSymptoms include lack of response to the environment, perform any tasks, or respond to questions, but the ability to swallow is maintained.\nExamination will reveal decreased muscle tone of the extremities and depression of tendon reflexes.\nPupillary reaction to light may be sluggish, but the corneal reflexes are preserved.\nParesis and Babinski sign may be present.\n"}
{"id": "6355548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6355548", "title": "Swedish goggles", "text": "Swedish goggles\n\nSwedish goggles are a classic and popular type of swimming goggles worn by many competitive swimmers. The original Swedish goggles were produced by the Swedish company Malmsten AB and were first designed in the 1970s. Swedish goggles influenced many other goggle designs and generic Swedish goggles are widely available. Malmsten claims that Swedish goggles are \"probably the worlds most copied swim goggles.\"\n\nSwedish goggles are notable for a lack of a gasket or seal around the eye cup, as found on most other goggles. They come in various colors including clear, black, blue, green, red, amber, pink, silver metallic and bronze metallic. Swedish goggles are relatively low cost, with basic goggles costing around $5 retail and metallic goggle costing around $15.\n\nMuch of the popularity of Swedish goggles is due to their customizable fit. The goggles are sold unassembled, with each goggle set including a pair of eye cups, one long (around 36\") latex rubber strip, and a nose piece consisting of string that fits inside a plastic or rubber tube. Swimmers may choose a single or double head strap, and some choose to cut a small piece of latex from the head strap for use as a nose piece.\nMalmsten's official assembly instructions can be found here.\n\nSwedish goggles require complete user assembly, which results in a fit that is specifically tailored to their owner. Proper assembly generally requires some skill and practice, as well as precision. Before assembly, the inside edges of the lenses are often filed down to remove any sharp edges and thus improve comfort.\n\nThe first step in building a set of Swedish goggles is to construct a nose piece. Nose pieces can feature a variety of designs, some of the most popular are the included string threaded through the included rubber tube, a short length of the included strap (which is much more easily adjusted than the string), or simply using the string as a nose piece. For nose pieces using the string and tube, a pair of tweezers can be used to guide the string through the small holes located on the inside of the frames, as well as into the rubber tube. A small knot is then tied by hand and threaded into the tube. \n\nNext, the latex strap is guided through the outboard holes of the goggle frames. The loose ends of the straps may be cut off if the user wishes to have a one-strap setup. Otherwise, they may be tied off, creating a two-strap setup and completing goggle assembly.\n"}
{"id": "25439039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25439039", "title": "Tohoku Shinseien Sanatorium", "text": "Tohoku Shinseien Sanatorium\n\nTōhoku Shinseien Sanatorium or National Sanatorium Tōhoku Shinseien is a sanatorium for leprosy or ex-leprosy patients situated in Tome-shi, Miyagi-ken, Japan, founded in 1939.\n\nFollowing prefectural sanatoriums, the Japanese Government decided to increase sanatoriums, starting with National Sanatorium Nagashima Aiseien Nagashima Aiseien Sanatorium in 1930. Tohoku Shinseien Sanatorium was the 6th sanatorium which was established in 1939. \n\n\nThe number of in-patients is the sum of patients which changed not only by the newly diagnosed hospitalized and those who died among in-patients, by other factors such as the number of patients who escaped or were discharged, depending on the condition of the times. Recently they were encouraged to be discharged, but the long period of the segregation policy causing leprosy stigma might influence the number of those who went into the society. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11019806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11019806", "title": "Umbilical cord ulceration and intestinal atresia", "text": "Umbilical cord ulceration and intestinal atresia\n\nUmbilical cord ulceration and intestinal atresia is a rare congenital disease that leads to intestinal atresia, umbilical cord ulceration and severe intrauterine haemorrhage. Only 15 cases have so far been reported, though newer studies are beginning to conclude that this disease has a higher incidence rate than has been previously reported. A particular study has given intestinal atresia and umbilical cord ulceration a clear link after 5 such cases were reported at the time of publication.\n"}
