{"id": "48711026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48711026", "title": "2015 United States E. coli outbreak", "text": "2015 United States E. coli outbreak\n\nThe 2015 United States \"E. coli\" outbreak is an incident in the United States involving the spread of through contaminated celery which was consumed in chicken salad at various large retailers. A product recall covering more than one dozen states and over 155,000 products has taken place as a result of the incident.\n\nNineteen cases of \"E. coli\" were linked to the outbreak, across seven states, primarily in the western half of the United States. Of these reported cases, five resulted in hospitalization, with two patients developing hemolytic-uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure; no deaths occurred as a result of the outbreak. This outbreak was therefore the second largest to occur in the U.S. in 2015, behind the far more severe Chipotle outbreak, which totaled about sixty cases.\n\nA total of 19 cases of \"E. coli\" linked to the outbreak were reported, throughout seven states: California, Colorado, Missouri, Montana, Utah, Virginia, and Washington. Recalls of Costco rotisserie chicken salad, which was deemed the source of the outbreak, occurred throughout the entire United States, with Costco claiming to have removed all infected products by November 20, 2015.\n\nThe epidemiologic evidence collected during the outbreak suggested that rotisserie chicken salad made and sold in Costco Wholesale stores in several states was the likely source of the outbreak.\n"}
{"id": "26025740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26025740", "title": "Acrofrontofacionasal dysostosis", "text": "Acrofrontofacionasal dysostosis\n\nAcrofrontofacionasal dysostosis is an extremely rare disorder, characterized by intellectual disability, short stature, hypertelorism, broad notched nasal tip, cleft lip/palate, postaxial camptobrachypolysyndactyly, fibular hypoplasia, and anomalies of foot structure.\n\nAn association with mutations in the neuroblastoma amplified sequence gene (NBAS) has been reported. This gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 2. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the Short Stature, Optic Nerve Atrophy, and Pelger-Huet Anomaly syndrome and Infantile Liver Failure Syndrome. \n"}
{"id": "34925041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34925041", "title": "Almeric Paget Massage Corps", "text": "Almeric Paget Massage Corps\n\nThe Almeric Paget Massage Corps (later the Almeric Paget Military Massage Corps) was a British physiotherapy service during the First World War.\n\nOn the outbreak of the First World War, Almeric Paget and his first wife, the American socialite Pauline Payne Whitney, offered the services of 50 trained masseuses to the British War Office. The offer was accepted and by November 1914, 50 women had been placed in military hospitals. At this time the demand for physiotherapy (or Massage and Electrical Treatment as it was known) increased and the Pagets were asked to open a day centre in London to relieve pressure on the military hospitals in London. Lady Alexander Paget offered her house at 55 Portland Place and soon over 200 men were being seen at the clinic seen every day. By now the number of women employed in the corps was over 200 and soon they became attached to the staff of most military hospitals with a further 120 masseuses employed.\n\nIn 1916 the work of the Corps was favourably inspected by Alfred Keogh, the Director General of the Army Medical Service. This inspection had two direct outcomes. Firstly the name of the Corps was amended to become the Almeric Paget Military Massage Corps and, secondly, the Corps was asked to manage physiotherapy services in all military hospitals and convalescent camps. As part of the second the services provided would be paid for by a government grant, until then the Corps and the services it provided had been privately funded by the Pagets and by donations.\n\nUntil 1917 all Corps members were UK based but from January 1917 onwards members could volunteer to work overseas and by the end of the war 56 members of the Corps had or were working abroad in Italy and France.\n\nBy the end of the war over 2,000 masseuses and masseurs were at work and just under 3,400 had been engaged by the Corps at some point during the war.\n\nThe Corps came to an end in January 1919 when a formal Military Massage Service was formed under the auspices of the Army and Pensions Massage Association. All members of the Corps were given the option to join the new Service which was controlled jointly by the War Office and the Ministry of Pensions.\n\n"}
{"id": "30015782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30015782", "title": "Automatic soap dispenser", "text": "Automatic soap dispenser\n\nAutomatic soap dispensers (also known as touchless or no-touch soap dispensers) dispense a controlled amount of soap solution (or a similar liquid such as a hand sanitizer). They are often used in conjunction with automatic faucets in public restrooms. They function to conserve the amount of soap used and stem infectious disease transmission.\n\nThe idea for the first dispenser was submitted by Guey-Chaun Shiau to be patented in 1989. The patent was under the name, \"Automatic Cleaning-liquid Dispensing Device\". The patent was issued in 1991. The patented device was under the following description:\n\"An automatic cleaning-fluid dispensing device includes: a containing structure for containing cleaning fluid; a sensing device disposed on a base member being installed in the lower portion of said containing structure wherein said base member is provided with an outlet, a sensing circuit disposed on a circuit board, a motor arrangement electrically connected to the sensing circuit, an outlet for passing a light source of the sensing circuit therefrom so as to detect the presence of an external object closing on the light source; and a dispensing mechanism, which is composed of a push structure functionally connected with the driving motor and a pumping structure operatively engaged with the push structure, installed on the base member in connection with the sensing device; whereby when an external object closes to the sensing device, a given amount of the contained cleaning fluid in the containing structure will be automatically supplied for cleaning purposes.\".\n\nThe implementation of automatic washroom supplies has increased dramatically. An increasing number of public locations and private institutions have been incorporating touchless technology into their washrooms.\n\nAutomatic technology has permeated public washrooms. Journalist Michael Sasso once termed it as, \"Hygienic Company Brings Space Age to Bathroom.\" He wrote in reference of the Tampa International Airport. The first automatic urinal was implemented in 1987 and in 16 years, \"the airport had 143 automatic urinals, 390 automatic-flush commodes and 276 automatic faucets\". Touchless technology has become a regular component of modern washroom facilities.\n\nA study was conducted in the accession area of the clinical microbiology laboratory and the outpatient dentistry department of the University of Virginia Medical Center. Studies were done to evaluate the particular antiseptic solution and the automatic dispensers in a hospital setting. The study was conducted for two months, at the conclusion, the effectiveness of the solution and dispenser was surveyed. Although the particular alcohol antiseptic was disliked because of the skin-drying effect of the alcohol solution, the dispenser itself was recommended for greater use throughout the healthcare facilities.\n\nThe filth, poverty, disease that permeated nineteenth century’s society was drastically reduced by revolutionary sanitation movements throughout the twentieth century. Although several other advances... can be etiologically and temporally related to some of these diseases, the causal evidence (e.g., temporal sequence, consistency, biologic plausibility) is consistent with the hypothesis that personal hygiene is one other factor that helped to determine the decline.\nThe advances of hygiene, such as that of the automatic soap dispenser, can be considered as one of the more silent victories of public health and continues to be an important disease prevention strategy, even in this \"modern\" era when the \"gospel of germs\" has waned in popularity.\n\nA strong corollary in the decline of the mortality rate is that of hand-washing (National Center for Health Statistics).\n\nWhen washing hands, the user’s hands are placed under the nozzle and before the sensor. The activated sensor will further activate a pump that dispenses a premeasured amount of soap from the nozzle.\n\nThis kind of sensor sends out bursts of microwave or ultrasound energy and waits for the energy to reflect back. In a stagnant situation, the energy will bounce back in a normal pattern. When hands are placed in the basin, the energy emitted from the sensor will bounce back irregularly which triggers the dispensation of soap. Modern sensors used in electronic faucets, electronic flush valves and electronic soap dispensers use Infrared light with wavelength in the range of 850 nm. The sensor employs an emitter and a collector. The emitter emits pulses of infrared light while the collector, which is positioned to face in the same direction as the emitter, \"sits\" dormant waiting to sense the emitted pulses. When no hands are present in front of the device, no reflection of light takes place, and therefore, no pulse is sensed. When hands are present in the path of the emitted light, a portions of the emitted infrared light is bounced back in the direction of the collector which then becomes excited by the light (in the event a photodiode is used) and generates voltage to switch the pump on. If a photo transistor is utilized, then the photo transistor, upon sensing the infrared pulse, will simply switch the pump on.\n\nThis mechanism is composed of two parts, a source of focused light (usually a laser beam) and a light sensor. When the user’s hands are placed in line of the beam of light, the pump mechanism is activated by the disruption that is sensed by the light sensor.\n\nInfrared sensors detect infrared energy that is emitted by one’s body heat. When hands are placed in the proximity of the sensor, the infrared energy quickly fluctuates. This fluctuation triggers the pump to activate and dispense the designated amount of soap.\n\nThe advancement of the automatic soap dispenser further creates an even more sterile environment. When various individuals use the pump, they will leave behind a variety of bacterial colonies. These colonies will interbreed and lead to a more resistant strain of bacteria that can re-contaminate different hands and would not be completely eliminated by the anti-bacterial soap. Wider spectra or higher levels of resistance, in the colonies that are present, are due to interaction and/or complementation between the resistance genes. Without having a wide variety of individuals touching the pump, bacterial transmission will be eliminated.\n\nDispensers will only distribute a set amount of soap per motion activation. A predetermined amount to be dispensed can be set to a highly efficient quantity in which waste will be minimal.\n\nThe mechanisms of the dispenser that work for soap may also work for other liquids: soap, hand sanitizer, lotion, laundry detergent etc. The wide range of possibilities extends the use of the dispenser to various other locations other than the bathroom.\n\nIf a photo sensor-based dispenser is not designed properly, it may only detect a narrow range of skin colors.\n\n"}
{"id": "27115563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27115563", "title": "Bradford Hill criteria", "text": "Bradford Hill criteria\n\nThe Bradford Hill criteria, otherwise known as Hill's criteria for causation, are a group of 9 principles, established in 1965 by the English epidemiologist Sir Austin Bradford Hill. They can be useful in establishing epidemiologic evidence of a causal relationship between a presumed cause and an observed effect and have been widely used in public health research. Their exact application and limits of the criteria continue to be debated.\n\nIn 1965, the English statistician Sir Austin Bradford Hill proposed a set of nine criteria to provide epidemiologic evidence of a causal relationship between a presumed cause and an observed effect. (For example, he demonstrated the connection between cigarette smoking and lung cancer.) The list of the criteria is as follows:\n\nBradford Hill's criteria had been widely accepted as useful guidelines for investigating causality in epidemiological studies but their value has been questioned because they have become somewhat outdated. \n\nIn addition, their method of application is debated. Some proposed options how to apply them include:\n\nAn argument against the use of Bradford Hill criteria as exclusive considerations in proving causality is that the basic mechanism of proving causality is not in applying specific criteria—whether those of Bradford Hill or counterfactual argument—but in scientific common sense deduction. Others argue that the specific study from which data has been produced is important, and while the Bradford Hill criteria may be applied to test causality in these scenarios, the study type may rule out deducing or inducing causality, and the criteria are only of use in inferring the best explanation of this data.\n\nDebate over the scope of application of the criteria includes, whether they can be applied to social sciences. The argument proposes that there are different motives behind defining causality; the Bradford Hill criteria applied to complex systems such as health sciences are useful in prediction models where a consequence is sought; explanation models as to why causation occurred are deduced less easily from Bradford Hill criteria because the instigation of causation, rather than the consequence, is needed for these models.\n\nResearchers have applied Hill’s criteria for causality in examining the evidence in several areas of epidemiology, including connections between ultraviolet B radiation, vitamin D and cancer, vitamin D and pregnancy and neonatal outcomes, alcohol and cardiovascular disease outcomes, infections and risk of stroke, nutrition and biomarkers related to disease outcomes, and sugar-sweetened beverage consumption and the prevalence of obesity and obesity-related diseases. They have also been used in non-human epidemiological studies, such as on the effects of neonicotinoid pesticides on honey bees. Their use in quality improvement of health care services has been proposed, highlighting how quality improvement methods can be used to provide evidence for the criteria.\n\nSince the description of the criteria, many methods to systematically evaluate the evidence supporting a causal relationship have been published, for example the five evidence-grading criteria of the World Cancer Research Fund (Convincing; Probable; Limited evidence – suggestive; Limited evidence – no conclusion; Substantial effect on risk unlikely).\n\n"}
{"id": "1021619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1021619", "title": "Cecil Jacobson", "text": "Cecil Jacobson\n\nCecil Byran Jacobson (born October 2, 1936) is an American former fertility doctor who used his own sperm to impregnate his patients without informing them.\n\nJacobson was born in Salt Lake City, Utah. A graduate of Brown University and Middlesex Medical School, he became a researcher at George Washington University, but had no specialist training in infertility medicine.\n\nIn the 1960s, Jacobson, who was Chief of the Reproductive Genetics Unit at George Washington University Medical School, claimed that he had impregnated a male baboon; he had supposedly planted a fertilized egg from a female baboon into the male's abdominal cavity. He claimed that he had terminated the pregnancy after four months. He never published his results in scientific publications.\n\nIn the 1980s, Jacobson operated a reproductive genetics center in Fairfax County, Virginia. He specialized in treating women who had difficulty getting pregnant, or problems carrying a pregnancy to term. One form of treatment was to inject patients, before and after conception, with the hormone hCG (commonly used as a parenteral fertility medication and a hormone normally released during pregnancy), and patients who had been unable to conceive with other treatments reported success under Jacobson's care.\n\nThe pregnancies progressed normally through the early stages: standard pregnancy tests were positive and patients' bodies began to undergo the normal changes. Jacobson performed ultrasounds, identifying a fetus in the grainy image. Around the third month, Jacobson would report that the fetus had died. In fact, these patients were never pregnant, and the bodily changes were a reaction to the hCG. The pregnancy tests were inevitably false positives because the tests determined pregnancy by the presence of hCG. During Jacobson's criminal trial, experts examined the ultrasound photographs, and reported that the purported \"fetuses\" were actually nearby organs or fecal matter.\n\nNevertheless, other patients were successful in becoming pregnant and having children. While some patients were uncomfortable with Jacobson's manner, and began to distrust him, other patients gave him credit for successful treatment. \n\nIn 1989, suspicious former patients tipped off a local television station, which investigated and reported on the false pregnancies. Jacobson was sued by numerous patients. Federal prosecutors charged Jacobson with perjury (for false testimony during the civil proceedings) and mail and wire fraud (for the use of the letters and the telephone system as part of his fraudulent practice).\n\nDuring the course of the criminal investigation, another type of fraud came to light. For a variety of reasons, some patients had arranged to be artificially inseminated with sperm provided by screened, anonymous donors arranged by Jacobson. In order to preserve the anonymity of the donors, Jacobson explained, he identified them in records using code numbers; only Jacobson was to know their true identities. Investigators found no evidence that any donor program actually existed. Some of Jacobson's patients who had conceived through donor insemination agreed to genetic testing. At least seven instances were identified in which Jacobson was the biological father of the patients' children, including one patient who was supposed to have been inseminated with sperm provided by her husband. DNA tests linked Jacobson to at least 15 such children, and it has been suspected that he fathered as many as 75 children by impregnating patients with his own sperm.\n\nJacobson vigorously denied wrongdoing. He offered these explanations: With regard to the \"false pregnancy\" cases, he had believed that the women had actually been pregnant, and continued to maintain that some of them really were pregnant. He was well aware that injected hCG could trigger a false positive on a pregnancy test, but thought that the dosages he administered were too low to have that effect. If he misread the ultrasound results, that was an honest error. As for the donor insemination, Jacobson maintained that he had in fact relied on anonymous donors as claimed. He acknowledged using his own sperm on some occasions, when donors failed to show up when needed, and a patient was about to miss a window of opportunity to become pregnant. He could not account for the incident in which his own sperm was used in place of the patient's husband's, other than to suggest cross-contamination in the laboratory.\n\nIn 1992, Jacobson was convicted of 52 counts of mail fraud, wire fraud and perjury. He was sentenced to five years in prison and had his medical license revoked. Jacobson appealed his convictions and sentence, but they were upheld by the court of appeals. He now lives in Provo, Utah, where he is involved in agricultural research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48860691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48860691", "title": "Charles A. Hawley", "text": "Charles A. Hawley\n\nCharles Augustus Hawley (March 13, 1861 – July 22, 1929) was an American Orthodontist who is known for developing the Hawley Retainer which is used in the field of Orthodontics. He attended Angle School of Orthodontia and graduated from there in 1905.\n\nHe was born in Avery, Ohio in 1861. He attended high school in Columbus, Ohio and then attended Ohio State University for his college degree. He then attended University of Michigan School of Dentistry and obtained his degree in 1893. He then became the Professor of Operative faculty soon after his graduation from the school. He is known to be one of the first people to have used nitrous oxide as an anesthetic for the removal of teeth. He attended Angle School of Orthodontia and graduated in 1905. He moved to Washington, D.C. after and became the first person to specialize in Orthodontics in that city.\n\nHe was married to Evelyn Frank Hawley.\n\nIn the field of Orthodontics, he is best known for his introduction of a refined type of retention plate called the Hawley Bite Plate. Two of Dr. Hawley's papers \"Determination of the Normal Arch and Its Application to Orthodontia\" and \"An Accurate Method in Orthodontia\" were read before 4th International Dental Congress and New York Institute of Stomatology. These papers were direct results of Dr. Hawley's work.\n\n"}
{"id": "33266021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33266021", "title": "Clarifying agent", "text": "Clarifying agent\n\nClarifying agents are used to remove suspended solids from liquids by inducing flocculation (the solids begin to aggregate forming flakes, which either precipitate to the bottom or float to the surface of the liquid, and then they can be removed or collected).\n\nParticles finer than 0.1 µm (10m) in water remains continuously in motion due to electrostatic charge (often negative) which causes them to repel each other. Once their electrostatic charge is neutralized by the use of a coagulant chemical, the finer particles start to collide and agglomerate (collect together) under the influence of Van der Waals's forces. These larger and heavier particles are called flocs.\n\nFlocculants, or flocculating agents (also known as flocking agents), are chemicals that promote flocculation by causing colloids and other suspended particles in liquids to aggregate, forming a floc. Flocculants are used in water treatment processes to improve the sedimentation or filterability of small particles. For example, a flocculant may be used in swimming pool or drinking water filtration to aid removal of microscopic particles which would otherwise cause the water to be turbid (cloudy) and which would be difficult or impossible to remove by filtration alone.\n\nMany flocculants are multivalent cations such as aluminium, iron, calcium or magnesium. These positively charged molecules interact with negatively charged particles and molecules to reduce the barriers to aggregation. In addition, many of these chemicals, under appropriate pH and other conditions such as temperature and salinity, react with water to form insoluble hydroxides which, upon precipitating, link together to form long chains or meshes, physically trapping small particles into the larger floc.\n\nLong-chain polymer flocculants, such as modified polyacrylamides, are manufactured and sold by the flocculant producing business. These can be supplied in dry or liquid form for use in the flocculation process. The most common liquid polyacrylamide is supplied as an emulsion with 10-40% actives and the rest is a non-aqueous carrier fluid, surfactants and latex. This form allows easy handling of viscous polymers at high concentrations. These emulsion polymers require \"activation\" - inversion of the emulsion so that the polymers molecules form an aqueous solution.\n\n\nThe following natural products are used as flocculants: \n\n"}
{"id": "37733837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37733837", "title": "ClinicoEconomics and Outcomes Research", "text": "ClinicoEconomics and Outcomes Research\n\nClinicoEconomics and Outcomes Research is a peer-reviewed healthcare journal focusing on covering the economic impact of health policy and health systems organization. The journal was established in 2009 and is published by Dove Medical Press.\n"}
{"id": "10033146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10033146", "title": "Colcom Foods", "text": "Colcom Foods\n\nColcom Foods Limited is a long established meat-processing company in Zimbabwe. It is principally a pork company, with a joint venture—Associated Meat Packers (AMP)—producing beef products. Colcom Foods is part of the Colcom Holdings Group, which in turn is majority owned by Innscor Africa. Both Innscor and Colcom are listed on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange.\n\nColcom’s origins are in a farmer-owned cooperative established in late 1943 in Southern Rhodesia to assist with the marketing of their pigs. The then Cold Storage Commission acted as their agents until 1961, when the Cooperative’s first processing factory was built on the present site in Harare. In 1993 Colcom was successfully floated on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange and became a publicly quoted company. Colcom supplies wholesalers and retailers nationwide and operates its own and franchised outlets, including a Training Centre at “The Colcom Kitchen”.\n\n"}
{"id": "3874975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3874975", "title": "Collaborative Hypertext of Radiology", "text": "Collaborative Hypertext of Radiology\n\nThe Collaborative Hypertext of Radiology (or \"CHORUS\") is a free medical reference database. It is based upon a system originally developed at the University of Chicago, but is currently maintained at the Medical College of Wisconsin.\n"}
{"id": "2076484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2076484", "title": "Cyril Wecht", "text": "Cyril Wecht\n\nCyril Harrison Wecht (born March 20, 1931) is an American forensic pathologist. He has been a consultant in numerous high-profile cases, but is perhaps best known for his criticism of the Warren Commission's findings concerning the assassination of John F. Kennedy.\n\nHe has been the president of both the American Academy of Forensic Science and the American College of Legal Medicine, and currently heads the board of trustees of the American Board of Legal Medicine. He served as County Commissioner and Allegheny County Coroner & Medical Examiner serving the Pittsburgh metropolitan area.\n\nWecht was born to Jewish immigrant parents in a tiny mining village in Dunkard Township, Pennsylvania called Bobtown. His father, Nathan Wecht, was a Lithuanian-born storekeeper; his Ukrainian-born mother, Fannie Rubenstein, was a homemaker and helped out in the store. When Wecht was young, Nathan moved the family to the Hill District neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and opened a neighborhood grocery store. He attended and graduated from the now closed Fifth Avenue High School in Pittsburgh.\n\nWecht had musical leanings and was concertmaster of the University of Pittsburgh Orchestra during his undergraduate years. He earned a B.S. from the University of Pittsburgh in 1952, an M.D. degree from the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine in 1956, an LL.B. from the University of Pittsburgh School of Law in 1962, and a J.D. degree from the University of Maryland School of Law. After serving in the United States Air Force, he became a forensic pathologist. He served on the staff of St. Francis Hospital in Pittsburgh before becoming Deputy Coroner of Allegheny County in 1965. Four years later he was elected coroner. Wecht served as coroner from 1970 to 1980, and again from 1996 to 2006.\n\nWecht became famous appearing on television and consulting on deaths with a high media profile. Some of the cases include; Robert F. Kennedy, Sharon Tate, Brian Jones, The Symbionese Liberation Army shootout, John F. Kennedy, The Legionnaires' Disease panic, Elvis Presley, JonBenét Ramsey, Dr. Herman Tarnower (the Scarsdale diet guru), Danielle van Dam, Sunny von Bülow, the Branch Davidian incident, Vincent Foster, Laci Peterson, Daniel, Anna Nicole Smith, and Rebecca Zahau. During his career, Wecht performed more than 14,000 autopsies. He is a clinical professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and an adjunct professor of law at Duquesne University.\n\nWecht is both outspoken and controversial. In 1979, Wecht examined Elvis Presley's medical records for \"20/20\" and disputed earlier autopsy results suggesting Presley may have had cardiovascular disease. Wecht argued Presley died from a lethal drug cocktail overdose. In his book \"Who Killed JonBenet Ramsey?\", he argues that the death was likely an accidental result of a sex \"game\" committed by her father.\n\nSince 1962, Wecht has had a private practice. He has served as a medical-legal and forensic pathology consultant in both civil and criminal cases. Wecht is consulted by both plaintiffs' and defense attorneys in civil cases, and by both prosecutors and defense attorneys in criminal cases in jurisdictions throughout the United States and abroad.\n\nHis forensic consultant engagements include:\n\nIn 1965 Wecht presented a paper critiquing the Warren Commission to the meeting of the American Academy of Forensic Sciences. In 1972 Wecht was the first civilian ever given permission to examine the Kennedy assassination evidence. It was Wecht who first discovered that Kennedy's brain, and all related data in the killing, had gone missing.\n\nIn 1978, he testified before the House Select Committee on Assassinations as the lone dissenter on a nine-member forensic pathology panel re-examining the assassination of John F. Kennedy, which had concurred with the Warren Commission conclusions and single bullet theory. Out of the four official examinations into the Kennedy Assassination, Wecht is the only forensic pathologist who has disagreed with the conclusion that both the single bullet theory and Kennedy's head wounds are mutually consistent.\n\nWecht was hired by Callenders and Co, a Bahamian law firm, to do an independent autopsy on the body of Daniel Smith, the son of Anna Nicole Smith who died while visiting his mother in the Bahamas. Wecht attested that Daniel Smith died as a result of the interaction of methadone, sertraline (Zoloft) and escitalopram (Lexapro).\n\nIn Fall 2000, the Duquesne University School of Law established the Cyril H. Wecht Institute of Forensic Science and Law. The Institute offers graduate degree and professional certificate programs in forensic science to a diverse group of students spanning the disciplines of law, nursing, law enforcement, pharmacy, the health sciences, business, the environmental sciences and psychology.\n\nWecht has written numerous books, including: \n\nIn 1965, Wecht became Deputy Coroner of Allegheny County. Four years later he was elected Coroner of Allegheny County. Wecht served as coroner from 1970 to 1980. His initial departure from the office of Coroner was not met without controversy. Wecht did not resign as Coroner until January 9, two days after his swearing-in as an Allegheny County Commissioner, as the law did not prohibit him from holding both the offices of Coroner and Commissioner.\n\nHe resigned under pressure from a variety of sources, including his predecessor as Coroner, Dr. Ralph Stalter, a Republican, and the administration of Governor Dick Thornburgh, also a Republican. He initially recommended that Dr. Joshua Perper succeed him, and indeed Perper held the title of Acting Coroner until Thornburgh appointed Dr. Sanford Edburg to succeed Wecht. While Perper initially rejected the appointment as unconstitutional, the State Supreme Court upheld Thornburgh's right to appoint Edberg, who duly took over the office of Coroner on March 2, 1981.\n\nIn 1978, he was elected chairman of the Allegheny County Democratic Party. One year later, Wecht was elected to the Allegheny County Board of Commissioners. In 1982, he was the Democratic party's nominee to oppose freshman Senator John Heinz in bid for a second term; Heinz won the election with 59 percent of the vote.\n\nWecht and fellow Democratic County Commissioner Tom Foerster were frequently at odds, and battled for control of the Democratic Party in Allegheny County, which Wecht chaired. Although the Democratic Committee rejected Foerster and endorsed Wecht for re-election as commissioner in 1983, the committee paired him with Sheriff Gene Coon, with whom he also had a longstanding political feud. \n\nFoerster teamed up with former Pittsburgh Mayor Pete Flaherty, and the two defeated Wecht and Coon in the primary election for the two Democratic nominations. Wecht then lost the chairmanship of the county's Democratic Party in 1984 to Foerster's hand-picked candidate, Scott Township Tax Collector Ed Stevens. Wecht then sought to become chair of the Pennsylvania Democratic Party that same year, but was defeated by Ed Mezvinsky, a former Congressman from Iowa. \n\nIn 1995, Wecht, after 12 years out of public life, was again elected as Allegheny County's Coroner. In 1999, he ran for the newly created position of Allegheny County Chief Executive, defeating one-term minority County Commissioner Mike Dawida in the Democratic primary, but losing to prominent Republican businessman Jim Roddey in his first bid for elective public office.\n\nWhile serving as the county's coroner, Wecht continued to operate a private forensic consulting business on the side known as Wecht Pathology Associates. Wecht Pathology Associates charges clients for examining cases, conducting autopsies, and testifying in civil and criminal trials. In his official capacity as county coroner, Wecht continued to squabble with DA Zappala, often over deaths that took place during encounters with police.\n\nIn the case that is the precursor to Wecht's federal prosecution, US vs. Wecht, Wecht ruled that Charles Dixon had been suffocated through positional asphyxiation during a 2002 encounter with police officers from Mount Oliver and Pittsburgh. When Wecht ruled the death of Dixon a homicide, DA Zappala refused to press charges against the officers. In response, Wecht, acting in his private capacity as an employee of Wecht Pathology Associates, wrote a medical opinion outlining the officers' alleged role in Dixon's death which was utilized by Dixon's family in a civil suit against the county.\n\nIn response to Wecht's testimony in the Dixon case, Zappala accused Wecht of violating the federal Hobbs Act, which prohibits public officials from using their offices for private gain. In early 2005, Zappala launched an investigation into whether Wecht had been using county resources to carry out private work — allegations similar to those Wecht had faced before. By spring of 2005, FBI agents were seizing documents in Wecht's private and county offices.\n\nWecht continued to serve as Coroner until the position was eliminated in 2006. County Executive Dan Onorato named him as the county's first appointed Medical Examiner in 2006. By January 2006, a federal grand jury had indicted Wecht on 84 criminal counts, prompting Wecht to step down from his county post per an agreement he made when the investigation became public in 2004 that if indicted he would resign as county coroner.\n\nWecht's tenure as Allegheny County Coroner was controversial. While he was responsible for significant upgrades in the professionalism and technology of the coroner's office during his service in that office from 1970 to 1980, making the Allegheny County Coroner's office one of the best in the nation, Wecht's political career proved controversial due to his opinionated nature and as he put it his unwillingness to \"run away from a fight.\"\n\nIn 1979 Wecht was accused of performing autopsies for other counties at the county morgue and depositing the fees from these autopsies in his private business's bank account. Wecht responded that the funds in question had been used solely to upgrade the office and staff.\n\nAfter a long investigation, Wecht was indicted on multiple criminal counts that charged Wecht with personally profiting from work at the coroner's office. Wecht allegedly transacted approximately $400,000 of his private business work using county facilities and the county morgue. In spring 1981, the six-week-long criminal trial began. All charges were dismissed except for one, theft of services. Wecht was acquitted on the remaining charge.\n\nThe original judge at trial was censured by a judge's panel and some findings vacated due to judicial misconduct. Wecht's attorneys alleged that he was a victim of a political conspiracy.\n\nAlthough Wecht was acquitted in the criminal case, the County Controller levied a civil surcharge of $390,000 against him for mingling private and public work at the morgue. In 1983, a civil court ruled that Wecht owed the county $172,410. On appeal, the original award to the county was increased to $250,000. In 1992, the county and Wecht reached a settlement resulting in Wecht having to repay the county $200,000.\n\nOn January 28, 2008, a federal trial against Wecht began, on charges of public corruption. Roughly two weeks prior to the trial, 43 of the 84 counts against Wecht were withdrawn; judge Arthur J. Schwab dismissed those charges with prejudice. Following trial the jury could not reach agreement on the remaining counts, and the judge declared a mistrial. The prosecution immediately announced that they planned to retry Wecht.\n\nConcerns were raised about the motivation and conduct of the prosecution before and after the trial. Speculation arose that the prosecution of Wecht was politically motivated. Former Attorney General and Governor of Pennsylvania Dick Thornburgh, a defense lawyer for Wecht, testified before a house panel investigating the US Attorneys' Firing Scandal that Wecht was targeted politically.\n\nCongressmen Mike Doyle (whose district includes Pittsburgh) and John Conyers questioned the prosecution's tactics in the aftermath of the first trial and instituted Congressional hearings on the matter.\n\nOp-eds in The \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" and the \"Pittsburgh Tribune-Review\" called for dismissal of the proposed re-trial. On April 12, 2008, 33 prominent leaders in the Pittsburgh community sent a letter to Attorney General Michael Mukasey and US Attorney Mary Beth Buchanan requesting that the prosecution dismiss the indictment against Wecht. Shortly after the press release of this letter, Senator Arlen Specter publicly recommended against a retrial for Wecht. Former jurors stated to the press that they believed that the prosecution had been politically motivated.\n\nOn May 5, 2008, the Department of Justice's Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR) revealed that it initiated an investigation into the Wecht prosecution due to claims that the case was a \"selective prosecution\".\n\nOn May 14, 2009, a new trial judge in the retrial excluded most of the evidence against Wecht because it was seized under an illegal and improperly executed search warrant.\n\nOn June 2, 2009, Buchanan announced that her office would file a motion to dismiss all charges against Wecht.\n\nWecht was portrayed by Albert Brooks in the 2015 film \"Concussion\". In the film, Wecht was a staunch supporter of Bennet Omalu's efforts to expose the link between concussions and football.\n\n"}
{"id": "2259701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259701", "title": "Danvers State Hospital", "text": "Danvers State Hospital\n\nThe Danvers State Hospital, also known as the State Lunatic Hospital at Danvers, The Danvers Lunatic Asylum, and The Danvers State Insane Asylum, was a psychiatric hospital located in Danvers, Massachusetts. It was built in 1874, and opened in 1878, under the supervision of prominent Boston architect Nathaniel Jeremiah Bradlee, on an isolated site in rural Massachusetts. It was a multi-acre, self-contained psychiatric hospital designed and built according to the Kirkbride Plan. \n\nIn spite of being included in the National Register of Historic Places in 1984, the majority of the building was demolished in 2007.\n\nThe Danvers State Hospital was officially opened in 1878 after four years of construction. Nathaniel Jeremiah Bradlee served as the designing architect.\n\nAt a cost of $1.5 million at the time, the hospital originally consisted of two main center buildings, housing the administration, with four radiating wings on each side of the Administration Block. The kitchen, laundry, chapel, and dormitories for the attendants were in a connecting building in the rear. Middleton Pond supplied the hospital its water. On each side of the main building were the wings, for male and female patients respectively. The outermost wards were reserved for the most hostile patients.\n\nOver the years, newer buildings were constructed around the original Kirkbride, and alterations were made to the Kirkbride itself, such as a new gymnasium/auditorium on the area of the old kitchens and multiple solaria added onto the front of the wards.\n\nMost of the buildings on campus were connected by a labyrinth of underground tunnels. Many of the Commonwealth institutions for the developmentally delayed and the mentally ill at the time were designed with tunnel systems, to be self-sufficient in wintertime. There was a tunnel that ran from a steam/power generating plant (which still exists to provide service to the Hogan Regional Center) located at the bottom of the hill running up to the hospital, along with tunnels that connected the male and female nurses homes, the \"Gray Gables\", Bonner Medical Building, machine shops, pump house, and a few others. \n\nThe original plan was designed to house 500 patients, with attic space potentially housing 100 more. By the late 1930s and 1940s, over 2,000 patients were being housed, and overcrowding was severe. People were even held in the basements of the Kirkbride.\n\nWhile the asylum was established to provide residential treatment and care to the mentally ill, its functions expanded to include a training program for nurses in 1889 and a pathological research laboratory in 1895. In the 1890s, Dr. Charles Page, the superintendent, declared mechanical restraint unnecessary and harmful in cases of mental illness. By the 1920s the hospital was operating school clinics to help determine mental deficiency in children. Reports were made[who?] that various inhumane shock therapies, lobotomies, drugs, and straitjackets were being used to keep the crowded hospital under control. This sparked controversy. During the 1960s as a result of increased emphasis on alternative methods of treatment, deinstitutionalization, and community-based mental health care, the inpatient population started to decrease.\n\nMassive budget cuts in the 1960s played a major role in the progressive closing of Danvers State hospital. The hospital began closing wards and facilities as early as 1969. By 1985, the majority of the original hospital wards were closed or abandoned. The Administration Block, in the original Kirkbride, building closed in 1989. Patients were moved to the Bonner Medical Building across the campus.\n\nThe entire campus was closed on June 24, 1992 and all patients were either transferred to the community or to other facilities.\n\nIn December 2005, the property was sold to AvalonBay Communities, a residential apartment developer. A lawsuit was filed by a local preservation fund to stave off the demolition of the hospital, including the Kirkbride building, which was listed on the National Register of Historic Places. This did not stop the process, however, and demolition of most of the buildings began in January 2006, with the intent to build 497 apartments on the site.\n\nBy June 2006, all of the Danvers State Hospital buildings that were marked for demolition had been torn down, including all of the unused buildings and old homes on the lower grounds and all of the buildings on the hill. Demolition was done by Testa Corp. of Wakefield, Massachusetts. The historic Kirkbride was also demolished, with only the outermost brick shell of the administration area (along with the G and D wards on each side) being propped up during demolition and construction while an entirely new structure was built behind and inside of it, leaving the historic Danvers Reservoir and the original brick shell. Much of the wood from the demolition project was salvaged and recycled into flooring and other millwork.\n\nA replica of the original tower/steeple on the Kirkbride was built to duplicate what was removed around 1970, due to structural issues. (The first picture illustrates the original tower in 1893, the second and third pictures illustrate the new replica in 2006 and 2007, and the fourth picture illustrates the one from 1970.) Avalon Bay predicted that they would have properties available for rent or sale by Fall 2007.\n\nOn April 7, 2007, four of the apartment complex buildings and four of Avalon Bay's construction trailers burned down in a large fire visible from Boston, nearly away. Damage was confined mostly to the buildings under construction on the eastern end, but the remaining Kirkbride spires caught fire due to the high heat.\n\nThe underground tunnel leading up from the power plant still exists, but is blocked at the top of the hill. Only the exterior of the Kirkbride complex was preserved in the demolition, and the cemeteries, several blocked tunnels, and the brick shell of the administration and the D and G wings are all that remain from the original site. Richard Trask of the Danvers Archival Center wrote, concerning the state's failure to preserve the Kirkbride complex, noting:\nThe failure to protect and adaptively reuse this grand exterior is a monumental blot in the annals of Massachusetts preservation. What might have been a dignified transformation of a magnificent structure which was originally built to serve the best intentions, but at times lost its way through human frailty, now is a mere ghost-image of itself. And we and our progeny are the losers.\n\nOn June 27, 2014, Avalon Bay Communities, Inc. sold the property for $108.5 M to the DSF Group. The DSF Group released plans for the property to undergo further renovations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3525706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3525706", "title": "Death row phenomenon", "text": "Death row phenomenon\n\nThe death row phenomenon is the emotional distress felt by prisoners on death row. Concerns about the ethics of inflicting this distress upon prisoners have led to some legal concerns about the constitutionality of the death penalty in the United States and other countries. In relation to the use of solitary confinement with death row inmates, death row phenomenon and death row syndrome are two concepts that are gaining ground. The death row syndrome is a distinct concept, which is the enduring psychological effects of the death row phenomenon, which merely refers to the triggers of the syndrome.\n\nHarrison and Tamony define \"death row phenomenon\" as the harmful effects of death row conditions, while \"death row syndrome\" is the consequent manifestation of psychological illness that can occur as a result of death row phenomenon.\n\nDeath row syndrome is a psychological disorder that inmates on death row can go through when they are put in isolation. Inmates affected by death row syndrome may display suicidal tendencies and psychotic delusions. According to some psychiatrists, the results of being confined to death row for an extended period of time, including the effects of knowing one will die and the living conditions, can fuel delusions and suicidal tendencies in an individual and can cause insanity in a form that is dangerous. Prisoners wait years for execution on death row and while waiting the prisoners go through painful isolation. They live in cells the size of parking spaces. Living in this kind of condition can amplify the effects of isolation. Most of the inmates stay in their cells for more than twenty hours a day. This kind of isolation and waiting for execution causes many inmates to die naturally.\n\nThe suicide rate of death row inmates was found by Lester and Tartaro to be 113 per 100,000 for the period 1976–1999. This is about ten times the rate of suicide in the United States as a whole and about six times the rate of suicide in the general U.S. prison population.\n\nSince the re-institution of the death penalty in 1976 to January 1, 2017, 145 prisoners have waived their appeals and asked that the execution be carried out. In the post-\"Furman\" era, four states (Connecticut, New Mexico, Oregon, and Pennsylvania) have executed only volunteers.\n\nThe theory of the death row phenomenon may be traced to 1989, when the European Court of Human Rights agreed that poor conditions on death row in Virginia should mean that a fugitive should not be extradited to the US unless the US agreed it would not execute the fugitive should he or she be convicted. Additionally, the number of years that the fugitive would be on death row was considered problematic. The case is known as \"Soering v. United Kingdom\". Earlier, however, in 1950, a justice of the United States Supreme Court in \"Solesbee v. Balkcom\" remarked that the \"onset of insanity while awaiting execution of a death sentence is not a rare phenomenon\". Often the death row phenomenon, being a result of a prolonged stay on death row, is an unintentional result of the long procedures used in the attempt to ensure the death penalty is applied only to the guilty.\n\n, arguments about the death row phenomenon have never been successful in avoiding the death penalty for any person in the US, but the US Supreme Court has been aware of the theory and has mentioned it in its decisions. When a serial killer named Michael Bruce Ross agreed to be executed in 2005, this had also led to a legal dispute over whether he could ever legally agree to such a thing, as the death row phenomenon might have contributed to his decision.\n\nIn Canada, the Supreme Court of Canada cited the death row phenomenon, along with a few other concerns about execution, to declare the risk of a prisoner being executed after he or she is extradited to another country to be a breach of fundamental justice, a legal right under Section 7 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms in the Constitution of Canada. The case was \"United States v. Burns\" (2001). Earlier, in 1991, some Supreme Court justices had, in \"Kindler v. Canada (Minister of Justice)\", expressed skepticism about the legal argument regarding the phenomenon, writing that the stress was not as severe a punishment as the execution itself, and writing that the prisoners themselves choose to appeal their sentences, thus being responsible for the prolonged stay on death row. In \"Burns\", however, the Court acknowledged that the mere process of execution, including making sure that the sentence is carried out justly, \"seems inevitably to provide lengthy delays, and the associated psychological trauma.\" This cast doubt on whether the risk of execution after extradition, as a whole, could be compatible with the principles of fundamental justice.\n\nIn Jamaica, in the case \"Pratt v Attorney General for Jamaica\", the death penalty was overturned for two prisoners by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, who had made reference to the death row phenomenon. In these judges' opinions, the prisoners had been on death row for too long, and that too many appeals were allowed to the prisoners, who were forced by instinct to attempt to appeal and were thus confined to death row for too long.\n\nUnited States Supreme Court Justices opposing the death penalty, such as Justice Stevens and Justice Breyer, have at multiple times argued in their dissents that the delay and waiting on death row was a factor making capital punishment unconstitutional as a cruel and unusual punishment. Their views were rejected by concurring opinions from more conservative justices such as Justice Scalia and Justice Thomas, who said that this long delay was caused by the convicts themselves and by \"Justices opposed to the death penalty.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33280021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33280021", "title": "Ernst Jean-Joseph", "text": "Ernst Jean-Joseph\n\nErnst Jean-Joseph (born 11 June 1948) is a Haitian football midfielder who played for Haiti in the 1974 FIFA World Cup. He played for Violette A.C. and Chicago Sting.\n\nSoon after Haiti's decent showing against Italy in the tournament - a game in which Jean-Joseph's team had briefly led - celebrations were undermined by his failing of a dope test. Haiti's officials meted out their own punishment before flying the player home. \n\n"}
{"id": "41727586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41727586", "title": "First Nations Health Authority", "text": "First Nations Health Authority\n\nThe First Nations Health Authority (FNHA) is a health service delivery organization responsible for administering a variety of health programs and service for First Nations people living in BC. The FNHA is part of a First Nations Health Governance Structure in BC that includes the First Nations Health Council and First Nations Health Directors Association. The First Nations Health Authority emerged from a number of Tripartite agreements between BC First Nations, the Province of BC, and the Government of Canada that included the Transformative Change Accord: First Nations Health Plan [2006], Tripartite First Nations Health Plan [2007], and the Tripartite Framework Agreement on First Nations Health Governance.\nA first for Canada, the FNHA is the first province-wide First Nations Health Authority in Canada. The FNHA plans, designs, manages and funds the delivery of First Nations health programs and services in BC. These community-based services are largely focused on health promotion and disease prevention - such as:\n\nThe FNHA strives to improve First Nations health outcomes and close the gaps that exist between First Nations people in BC and the rest of the provincial population. The FNHA serves both the urban and rural First Nations population that includes 203 communities throughout the province.\n\nOn October 1, 2013 the FNHA completed the second phase transfer of federal programs and services from Health Canada.\n\nOther Health Authorities in British Columbia:\n\n"}
{"id": "696369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=696369", "title": "Food First Information and Action Network", "text": "Food First Information and Action Network\n\nIntroduction\n\nFIAN International - formerly, FoodFirst Information and Action Network - was founded in 1986 as the first international human rights organization to advocate for the realization of the right to food and nutrition.\nHolding a consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council, FIAN is active in more than 50 countries, through national sections and seeds groups, which account for 25 of these, as well as individual members and international networks. With no religious or political affiliation dictating its work, FIAN International exposes violations of people's right to food and related rights wherever they may occur and stands up against undue and oppressive practices that prevent people from feeding themselves. \n\nBy holding governments accountable, FIAN International strives to secure people's access to and control over natural resources and means of subsistence, crucial to ensure a life of dignity, now and for future generations. Nutrition, as an inherent component of the right to food, and a fundamental act of food sovereignty, remains a core objective in FIAN's work. As the struggle against gender discrimination and other forms of exclusion is an integral part of its mission, FIAN works with and in favor of the most marginalized and affected groups: its vision is of a world free from hunger, in which every woman, man, boy and girl can fully enjoy their right to food, as laid down in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international human rights instruments. \n\nFIAN International's Secretariat is based in Heidelberg, Germany, and Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nOrganizational Structure\n\nFIAN is an international membership based organisation. FIAN's institutional members are its national sections which are legal entities in their own right and have their own membership and elected decision-making bodies.\n\nCurrent sections of FIAN can be found in some 25 countries, for updates look at Worldwide. \n\nThe overall mission, vision and the strategy of FIAN is defined and revised by the International Council (IC), and represented by delegates of the sections who meet once every three years. The IC elects the International Executive Committee (IEC) -headed by the president, which supervises the implementation of FIAN’s strategic plans. The IEC meets bi-annually to review and strategize FIAN programs, methods and budgets. \n\nThe operative working unit being in charge of the execution of FIAN’s programs is its International Secretariat (IS) located in Heidelberg (Germany) and Geneva (Switzerland), and coordinated by the Secretary General.\n\nFIAN International's work\n\nFIAN uses various working tools to achieve the realization of the right to adequate food.\n\nCase-work and Interventions\n\nAt international Fact Finding Missions, FIAN identifies and addresses human rights violations. FIAN interviews people threatened or affected by violations of their right to food and verifies the facts of a situation. Face-to-face contacts to local counterparts are established and serve as a basis for trustful co-operation. On request of those affected, FIAN reacts quickly, analyses the case and mobilises members and supporters worldwide to send out Urgent Action protest letters. Violations are also followed-up in long-term case-work by local FIAN action groups. In close co-operation with the affected communities, FIAN persistently approaches the responsible authorities and identifies breaches of right to food obligations. FIAN’s analysis is based on the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights as interpreted in the UN General Comments, in particular General Comment 12 on the right to adequate food. Existing recourse mechanisms and legal remedies under national and international human rights law are applied to provide redress to the victims.\n\nLobby and Advocacy\n\nReliable contacts and networks, a sound documentation of cases and two decades of experience provide a solid basis for effective lobbying and advocating the right to food. FIAN holds states, international institutions and private actors accountable at the national and international levels. The Right to Food Guidelines adopted by the FAO in 2004 is one of the tools FIAN uses to monitor states’ right to food policies. FIAN tries to improve the existing right to food protection system and to establish new instruments. Intense follow-up work strives to secure the effective implementation of existing instruments, making the right to food politically and judicially enforceable everywhere for everyone.\n\nInformation and Education\n\nTargeted information campaigns and awareness-raising on the right to food are at the core of FIAN’s work - to empower social movements and non-governmental organizations to hold states accountable for violations of the right to food, to clarify for governments and other duty-bearers the content and implementation needs of their obligations, and to motivate supporters from civil society to join action against human rights violations. The systematic information gathered from more than 400 individual cases over the past two decades is analyzed and fed into various professional publications.\n\nImpact\n\nFIAN was involved prominently in the development of the human rights protection system, for instance in the strengthened procedure of State’s and parallel reporting on economic, social, and cultural human rights in the UN human rights system; the elaboration of the UN General Comment No. 12 on the Right to Food in 1999 as the most authoritative legal interpretation of the right to food in international law; and the adoption of the “Voluntary Guidelines on the Right to Food” by the FAO member states in 2004.\n\nFIAN’s commitment was awarded internationally:\n\nPublic Eye on Davos - Positive Award: In 2006, FIAN International together with two partners won the Public Eye on Davos - Positive Award, which is given every year on the occasion of the World Economic Forum in Davos, for their commitment in favour of the rights of workers of the Mexican tyre factory Euzkadi.\n\nSilver Rose Award: In 2005, two staff members of the FIAN Section Germany received the Silver Rose Award for their commitment for the rights of workers in the flower industry, the participation in the development of the International Code of Conduct for the Production of Cut flowers (ICC) and its successful implementation in the framework of the Flower Label Programm (FLP).\n\nFace-It-Act-Now Campaign: http://www.face-it-act-now.org/\nUrgent Actions: http://fian.org/cases/letter-campaigns\nPublications: http://fian.org/resources/documents/others\n"}
{"id": "36232286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36232286", "title": "Forced abortion of Feng Jianmei", "text": "Forced abortion of Feng Jianmei\n\nOn June 2, 2012, Feng Jianmei () was forced to have an abortion in Zhenping County, Shaanxi, China, when she was seven months pregnant with her second child. Local officials had demanded that Feng and her husband pay a 40,000 yuan fine for violating the nation's one-child policy. When they were unable to do so, authorities arrested Feng, made her sign an agreement to have an abortion, and held her down while injecting her with an abortifacient. Feng was reportedly traumatized by the incident and in poor health afterwards.\n\nOn June 11, Feng's family posted graphic pictures of her stillborn child. The images soon became a viral phenomenon, sparking controversy within China and drawing international attention to the issue of forced abortions. In response to national and international attention, the Chinese government launched an investigation. On June 26, the investigation determined that Feng was not legally entitled to a second child, but that her rights had nonetheless been violated by the local family planning bureau, and as a result, two officials were fired and five others punished. On June 27, the National Population and Family Planning Commission announced it would send inspection teams across China to review the practices of local family planning divisions. Feng's husband, Deng Jiyuan (), hired a lawyer to pursue criminal charges, but ultimately the family decided to settle out of court.\n\nThe incident led to increased scrutiny of China's one-child policy, both nationally and internationally. Feng's case has been cited in editorials critical of the one-child policy, and has also been used as an example of how the Internet is empowering ordinary people in an environment of government censorship. On July 5, European Parliament passed a resolution condemning both Feng's case and forced abortion in general. On January 1, 2016, after months of discussion, China's one-child policy was replaced with a two-child policy.\n\nSince 1979, Chinese couples have been limited to one child by law in order to control the country's population. Families living in rural areas, as well as those with an ethnic minority background, can often receive an exemption from the law and have a second child without penalty. Otherwise, couples who have two or more children are required to pay a fine to the government. According to He Yafu, an independent demographer, such fines are common and \"have become a major source of profit for family planning authorities\" in recent years. The demographer He adds that the fines allow wealthy families to have extra children while forcing poorer families into involuntary abortions. The fines generate an estimated 20 billion yuan per year in revenue for the government. He Yafu estimates that over 2 trillion yuan (~$314 billion USD) has been collected since 1980.\n\nChina's Population and Family Planning Law prohibits infringement on people's personal rights and property for family planning purposes. Moreover, a 2001 law prohibited abortions after the sixth month of pregnancy. Nevertheless, human rights groups and critics of the one-child policy say that these laws are inconsistently enforced, and the local officials in many areas still carry out forced sterilizations and/or coerced abortions, sometimes in the third trimester after the fetus has reached viability. In ten Chinese provinces, including Shaanxi, authorities are permitted to take \"remedial measures\" to ensure that birth quotas are not exceeded. In eight other provinces, authorities are required to terminate unauthorized pregnancies. Activists such as Chen Guangcheng have been jailed by the Chinese government for bringing to light evidence of forced abortions. In 2005, Chen filed a class-action lawsuit on behalf of women forced into sterilization or abortions and subsequently spent seven years in jail or under house arrest before emigrating to the United States in 2012.\n\nIn October 2011, Feng Jianmei, who was a 22-year-old woman from the small village of Yuping in Zeng Jia Township, Shaanxi province, became pregnant with her second child. She had married in 2006 and given birth to a girl in 2007. After listening to the advice of relatives, Feng and her husband, Deng Jiyuan, had believed they would be allowed to have a second child since they had waited five years between children and lived in a rural area. According to Zhenping County officials, authorities had contacted Feng in March 2012 and told her that she needed to obtain documentation, including a new household registration (referred to as \"hukou\"), in order to file an application to have the child. Her family denies this, saying that officials did not notify them until several days before the abortion was induced.\n\nAround May 28, local family planning officials phoned Feng to try to persuade her to have an abortion. The attempt was unsuccessful, so on May 30 they visited the family house while Feng's husband was away at work. At first, authorities tried to persuade her to voluntarily have an abortion. After several hours, she told the officials she was going out to buy food, and left them in her living room. Instead, she went to an aunt's house, but around 15 officials followed her. They did not immediately arrest Feng, instead setting up shifts to keep watch over her at the aunt's house. Early the next morning, Feng escaped, causing the guards to panic. She flagged down a van and persuaded the driver to help her. The driver let her out down the road, and Feng hid in hillside brush for the next 14 hours, waiting for the cover of darkness in the cold and rainy weather. When night came, she went to a relative's house in the countryside, where she hid under the bed. Authorities from the family planning office found her regardless, and allegedly assaulted her. They let her get a night's sleep before taking her to the hospital on June 2. Several witnesses reported that four men carried Feng out of the house with a pillowcase over her head.\n\nSimultaneously, family planning officials were in communication with Feng's husband, Deng Jiyuan. On June 1, they demanded that Deng either transfer his wife's residency status on the next day or pay 100,000 yuan (US$15,700) to the birth-planning social security fund. Transferring the residency status in one day was impossible, but Deng negotiated the payment down to 30,000 yuan before returning to Zhenping County (he actually only had 18,000 yuan that he had borrowed from work, but hoped an IOU would cover the balance). On his way back, Deng received a text message that demanded that he immediately pay the fee, which was now 40,000 yuan, and \"not a penny less\". Other family members received similar text messages.\n\nAt the hospital, two men forced Feng to apply her thumbprint to a consent form and sign a document authorizing the abortion. She was taken into an operating room and restrained by two men as she was injected with a poison to kill the fetus. Feng later told All Girls Allowed, an American group campaigning against the one-child policy, \"I could feel the baby jumping around inside me all the time, but then she went still.\" She had been seven months pregnant at the time, so the abortion, voluntary or not, was illegal under Chinese law. No family members were allowed to be present for the procedure. After the child died of hypoxia, Feng underwent induced labor and delivered a stillborn girl on June 4. Feng later told All Girls Allowed: \"It was much more painful than my first childbirth. The baby was lifeless, and she was all purple and blue.\" The corpse was then placed next to Feng on her bed for her family to dispose of when they arrived.\n\nFeng was traumatized by the procedure and smashed the door and cabinetry of a nurse's office in a fit of rage. A week later, Deng told \"The South China Morning Post\", \"My wife is not well. She is sad and distressed. Sometimes she becomes emotional and confused.\" Feng reportedly had a severe headache for several weeks after the abortion and attempted suicide multiple times. On June 15, an uncle told reporters Feng was in poor health and unable to eat. On June 26, Feng was still in the hospital and suffering from headaches. She told reporters that she wanted to go home, but that hospital staff would not allow her to leave. On June 29, her family reported that Feng would be released the next day. However, her condition worsened, and she did not return home until July 10.\n\nDeng filed an official complaint with Ankang's petition office. A deputy mayor allegedly told Deng that they would investigate, but when nothing appeared to be happening, Deng posted his family's story online. later telling CNN that \"I'm angry and want justice.\" Meanwhile, the township officials had prepared a statement that said Feng was of sound mind and body when she signed the consent form authorizing the abortion.\n\nFeng's sister-in-law and Deng Jiyuan's sister, Deng Jicai (), came back from Hubei the day after the abortion and brought a video camera with her to film Feng. A family planning official, who discovered the tape, then demanded that it be erased. However, Jicai was able to capture several pictures with her cell phone. On June 11, a picture of Feng lying in a hospital bed \"staring at the ceiling with dull eyes\" next to the bloody corpse was posted on Chinese social media website Sina Weibo, along with an image of a threatening text message sent by authorities. The images prompted outrage, and news of the event spread quickly. Angry comments from around China poured in, with people calling the authorities' actions \"an atrocity\", \"the same as murder.\" Many comments called for an end to the one-child policy, or tied the case to other controversial topics such as the corruption of local officials or the country's rural-urban divide. Many posts were quickly deleted by government censors. Nonetheless, by June 13, more than 40,000 comments about the photos were present on Sina Weibo, and by June 15, images of Feng were among the most forwarded. \"Seven-months pregnant forced abortion\" was the website's top search term, and more than one million user comments were logged on the topic. Discussion also spread to other social media outlets, including NetEase, where threads critical of the government were quickly locked to prevent further discussion.\n\nZhang Kai (), a lawyer known for his representation of the disadvantaged, posted the story on his blog. Li Chengpeng, a Chinese blogger with at the time more than five million followers, learned of the story and wrote \"the purpose of family planning was to control population, but now it has become murder population ... If this evil policy is not stopped, this country will have no humanity.\" Zhao Chu, a writer decried the one-child policy as a \"profit-oriented activity that everyone hates\", writing \"this is not about enforcing the policy, it is about depriving someone’s right to live\". Liang Jianzhang, chief executive of Ctrip, called Feng's case \"outrageous and violent\" and \"not unique to Shaanxi\", saying that \"abolition of the absurd family-planning policy is the only way to root out this kind of evil\".\n\nLocal newspaper \"Hua Shang Bao\" ran a story on Feng.On June 12, human rights activist Huang Qi also posted the story and images. The story was then picked up by major media outlets throughout China. On June 14, state-backed newspaper \"Global Times\" reported that \"online posts about Feng's forced abortion had triggered a torrent of criticism directed at the Zhenping government and sparked debate about the national family planning policy\". On his personal Weibo account, chief editor Hu Xijin wrote, \"I strongly oppose the barbarous forced abortion\", saying the country's family planning enforcement needed to change. However, he stated that overall the one-child policy was a good thing, writing that \"the world resources cannot afford to feed a China with billions of people\".\n\nOn June 13, French news agency Agence France-Presse reported that the graphic images of Feng and her stillborn child \"have caused an uproar in China\". Al Jazeera also ran a story about Feng that day. The next day, BBC, CNN, \"The Age\", and other major media outlets around the world ran articles on the topic.\n\nAfter the story of Feng Jianmei's abortion gained widespread domestic and international exposure, Zhenping County officials denied the allegations, saying that the abortion was legal and that Feng had requested it. \"Feng agreed to go through an operation to end the pregnancy on June 2 following repeated mediation by the township officials\", read the county's website. They further stated that she did not have a local \"hukou\" registration and that the couple was not entitled to a second child. The statement was later removed, with a search for Feng's name causing an \"error\" message. A few days later, local family planning official Yuan Fang stated the request for 40,000 yuan was \"a deposit\" that would have been returned after Feng filed the necessary paperwork.\n\nA hospital employee acknowledged that Feng was staying there and that the hospital \"implements\" family planning policy and \"provides services\" to that effect, but denied that forced abortion was a part of what they do. He said he didn't know the details of Feng's case but stated that \"she is probably just exaggerating things on the Internet\". It was soon revealed that the Zeng Jia Township had failed to reach its enforcement quotas under the one-child policy for the past two years, so it had received a \"yellow card\" warning. Desiring to remove the warning, town officials decided to crack down on enforcement in June 2012.\n\nApproximately ten days after the forced abortion occurred, the Shaanxi Provincial Population and Family Planning Commission launched an investigation. On June 13, Yu Yanmei, the deputy head of Ankang, visited the Deng household. Two days later, the commission concluded that Feng had indeed been forced into an illegal abortion, writing, \"Such practice has seriously violated the relevant policies ... harmed the image of our family planning work, and caused extremely poor effects in society.\" Three officials, including the head of the local family-planning department, were suspended from their jobs on June 14. An employee of the Ankang Family Planning Bureau said that \"grass-roots comrades aren't stupid, but this is what they're forced to do ... This is a problem with the entire system.\"\n\nThe Ankang city government promised to \"pursue strict legal and disciplinary action\" once the investigation was finished. On June 14, the city issued a formal apology. \"Since the illegal actions by some officials have seriously hurt Feng Jianmei and her family, we want to offer our deep apologies to them and to the generic public\", read the statement. The same day, deputy mayor Du Shouping visited Feng in the hospital to express the city's \"sincere apologies.\" \"I hope we can earn your forgiveness,\" he said in a statement published on the city's webpage. The Chinese government also said it had released a pamphlet emphasizing that late term abortion is prohibited and that the legal rights of pregnant women should be maintained.\n\nOn June 26, the results of the investigation were announced. The investigation concluded that Feng was not entitled to have a second child due to her non-agricultural hukou, and that she had been told to fix her registration in March. However, Feng's rights were violated by county officials and there was no legal basis for the demanded 40,000 yuan fee. \"The incident showed that some officials at the grassroots level have a weak sense of the law and show little concern for the well-being of the people\", the report said. The head of the family planning bureau of Zhenping, Jiang Nenghai, and one other official were fired. Five other government and hospital employees received some form of punishment. Additionally, the county government was ordered to provide Feng with a living stipend.\n\nOf the government's actions, Deng Jicai said, \"Of course we're not satisfied with the result.\" She added, \"all they've done is punish a few leaders, but they haven't done anything to the people directly responsible for dragging my sister-in-law [Feng] in to have an abortion. They haven't pursued a single person for criminal liability.\" Jicai also noted that no mention was made of the people who later harassed the family, nor was there any mention of an incident where her brother was attacked and beaten.\n\nZhang Kai, a lawyer from Beijing, told Deng Jiyuan he would look into filing a lawsuit against the township government. \"To force a woman who is seven months pregnant to have an abortion is a serious violation of the law,\" he said. \"At the very least it should be considered willful and malicious injury.\" Zhang said he hoped the case would cause people to rethink China's population control policies. On June 29, he announced that he was officially representing the family and would seek the help of other lawyers to get the case heard in criminal court. However, he acknowledged that doing so would be difficult. \"China's family planning departments are above the law,\" he explained. \"Even when they do something illegal it is rare for them to be held responsible.\" In response to the lawsuit threats, local officials cancelled a planned meeting to discuss the living stipend, saying they would wait for Jiyuan's return to Zeng Jia Township.\nJudge Xie Xue told reporters that forced abortion would not be classified as homicide or kidnapping, but could qualify as an intentional injury crime. In cases where complications arose after the abortion, such as Feng's, the injury could be considered a serious offense bearing a possible penalty of three to ten years in prison. However, \"The Wall Street Journal\" said a legal remedy was unlikely, noting that a 2008 decision by the Supreme People's Court indicated that litigation could not be based on specific provisions of the constitution. Furthermore, family planning law does not have any provision for damages awarded to victims of abuse by government officials.\n\nOn July 2, Zhang submitted an official request for the Ankang police to file a case and investigate the officials involved. Subsequently, Deng returned home and decided to negotiate with local authorities. On July 10, the family agreed to settle out of court for 70,600 yuan (~$11,200 USD). Additionally, the township agreed to pay Feng's medical bills if she contracted a disease from the abortion. \"I've given up legal appeals and agreed to take the compensation offered by the township government,\" Deng remarked. \"We just want our normal life back.\" He added, \"It has never been about the money. As ordinary people, we can no longer take the pressure from all sides of the society\". Zhang said the family gave up on pursuing criminal charges because local law enforcement was uncooperative, explaining that \"if the prosecutors don't fulfill their responsibilities [to press charges], it's impossible to do.\" An official told Xinhua, China's official state news agency, that the government was committed to providing for the family's financial needs if they should encounter future financial difficulties and that the government would also provide medical care for the Dengs' ailing mother.\n\nZhang said the compensation could not make up for a lifetime of \"spiritual pain\" and remarked that 70,000 yuan could not compensate for a lost life. \"In terms of compensation, the word satisfaction doesn’t even enter the equation,\" Jiyuan remarked. \"But this is the result, so we just have to accept it.\" Reactions on Chinese social media were mixed, and some commented that the government had gotten too lenient a consequence. International activists said the settlement of Feng's case was just the beginning of the fight to end the one-child policy, with Bob Fu of ChinaAid remarking, \"The bottom line is there are hundreds and thousands of [cases like] Feng Jianmei.\" As of July 13, the family had not received the promised compensation and Jiyuan told reporters he was not sure if it would ever come.\n\nIn the weeks after Feng Jianmei's story went public, the family suffered from what Zhang called \"state-backed harassment.\" The harassment started when Deng Jiyuan attempted to go to Beijing to talk with a lawyer and do a television interview. Jiyuan's travel attempt was stopped by \"more than 100 people and a dozen cars,\" according to Deng Jicai. Then, \"a man suddenly appeared and kicked my brother in the stomach.\" After Jiyuan was interviewed by \"Stern\" magazine on June 22, the harassment from the government became worse, with Jiyuan stating that he was subsequently followed by \"local officials and thugs\" everywhere he went, even the bathroom. He then disappeared from public sight on June 24, only phoning home on June 26 to say he was safe, but his whereabouts remained unknown.\n\nOn June 29, Jiyuan reappeared in Beijing, telling reporters, \"I came to Beijing in search of help.\" He said that he had made two unsuccessful attempts to flee from custody before succeeding on his third try. While his official monitors were on the phone, Jiyuan fled to a friend's home, where he remained for two days. He removed the sim card and battery from his cell phone to prevent being tracked. \"I did not sleep or get any new clothes, I could not risk being arrested,\" he recalled. They rented a car and drove to Beijing, and Jiyuan recalled that \"I assumed there would be government people at the train station.\" Whenever they neared police officers, he would get out of the car and walk to prevent being spotted.\n\nOther family members were also reportedly followed and harassed by government officials. Protestors converged outside the hospital where Feng was staying, carrying a banner that read \"severely beat the traitors and expel them.\" Local media reported that the local government had organized the protest. About a dozen guards patrolled outside Feng's hospital room for two weeks, following family members wherever they went. \"We feel like prisoners,\" remarked Deng Jicai. Supporters of the family allege that local officials were also engaged in an online smear campaign against the family. \"The whole family feels very depressed and pressured,\" said Jicai. On June 26, a visiting family member had their tires slashed. A spokesperson for the Shaanxi provincial government called the allegations of harassment unfounded rumors. However, Liang Zhongtang, an independent researcher, said it was common for people who seek outside help to be harassed by local governments. He speculated that the township government was trying to prevent further media coverage of the case. On July 13, Jiyuan said that he remained concerned over his family's future safety, noting: \"There are rumors on the street that after this thing calms down, when people are not paying attention to us anymore, they [the officials who were punished for approving the abortion] will kill my family.\"\n\nLater, when asked if she still wanted to have another child, Feng told \"The New York Times\", \"That depends on how my body recovers. Yes, if I can get my health back.\"\n\nOn June 27, the National Population and Family Planning Commission announced it would conduct a review of family planning enforcement country-wide. As part of the review, ten inspection teams would be sent to nineteen different provinces to review the practices of local offices, and that the teams would be charged with settling disputes and would distribute contraceptives. Commission director Wang Xia said the inspection was of great importance, remarking that \"even slight carelessness in law enforcement [damages] the image of the Party and the country.\" Xia said the review would aim to \"strengthen the day-to-day management of services, avoid the use of violence and prevent abuses of administrative enforcement\"; he placed a special emphasis on the \"social maintenance fees\" collected from policy violators. Simultaneously, the commission declared that fines collected for future violations could no longer be spent at the local level, but instead would go into a general fund. He Yafu described the campaign as an attempt by the commission to restore public trust that had been badly damaged by Feng's forced abortion.\n\nOn July 3, 2012, an open letter by three members of the Development Research Center of the State Council, a think tank that advises the Chinese ruling cabinet, was published in the group's newspaper, \"China Economic Times\". In the letter they called for \"adjustments\" to be made to the one-child policy \"as soon as possible\". The group advised that \"an opening up of the two-child option to all should be considered.\" Demographer Liang Zhongtang said the letter was likely the start of a gradual shift in policy, but that a sudden shift was very unlikely. Although there was no explicit mention of Feng Jianmei in the letter, multiple news sources drew a connection between the timing of the two events. Writing for \"The New Yorker\", Evan Osnos said that \"pressure for change of China’s one-child policy seems to be mounting\" in the wake of Feng's case. On July 5, a group of fifteen scholars released an own open letter to the National People's Congress arguing that change to family planning law was \"imperative\". The letter mentioned research indicating economic consequences of continuing the one-child policy, but focused on human rights issues, mentioning Feng by name. \"Behind these incidents are clear limitations and defects in the nation's family planning laws,\" read the letter. Liang Jianzhang, one of the letter's signers, told a reporter \"From an economic perspective, the one-child policy is irrational. From a human-rights perspective, it's even less rational.\"\n\nFeng Jianmei's ordeal brought increased scrutiny to China's abortion and population-control policies. International commentators were highly critical of the government's role in Feng's abortion. \"Feng Jianmei's story demonstrates how the One-Child Policy continues to sanction violence against women every day\", said Chai Ling of the NGO All Girls Allowed. Women's Rights Without Frontiers' president Reggie Littlejohn stated \"no legitimate government would commit or tolerate such an act. Those who are responsible should be prosecuted for crimes against humanity.\" In a press release, the Christian Alliance Defense Fund called Feng's case \"nothing less than a crime against humanity\" and asked American political leaders to formally condemn the act. The World Evangelical Alliance said it was \"outraged\" by the incident and asked the Chinese government to \"ensure that these tragic incidents are prevented from happening in the future\".\n\nOn July 5, European Parliament passed a resolution condemning both the treatment of Feng and forced abortions in general, \"especially in the context of the one-child policy\". The resolution also requested that forced abortion be added the agenda for the next bilateral human rights dialogue with China. Additionally, some Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) requested an independent investigation into forced abortion and infanticide in China. A few days later, MEP Lojze Peterle opined that Chinese family planning law violates provisions outlined by the United Nations in the International Conference on Population and Development. He said the resolution passed by parliament gives the European Commission a \"clear mandate\" to withdraw funds from any organization potentially involved in aiding coercive practices in China, citing the International Planned Parenthood Federation and Marie Stopes International as two potential targets.\n\nOn July 9, the Human Rights Subcommittee of the United States House of Representatives convened a hearing on the one-child policy prompted by Feng's story. In his opening remarks, chairman Chris Smith called the one-child policy \"a nightmarish 'brave new world' ... where women are psychologically wounded, girls fall victim to sex-selective abortion ... and most children grow up without brothers or sisters, aunts or uncles or cousins\". He said that because of Feng, people were \"finally seeing the gruesome reality of China's one-child policy\". Congressman Joseph R. Pitts agreed, saying, \"It now seems that consensus in China is building towards reforming the policy.\" Committee witnesses called for a number of responses such as restricting United Nations Population Fund outlays and encouraging U.S. corporations doing business in China to reject the country's family-planning practices at their facilities.\n\nFeng's case became a focal point for newspaper editorials against China's one-child policy and abortion in general. Opponents of the one-child policy said the case is a potential turning point in the efforts to end the rule. On June 26, Reuters said the story had sparked \"a firestorm domestically and around the world\", explaining, \"Feng Jianmei's abortion was portrayed in the Chinese and international press as an example of the extreme measures some officials would take to control China's population, even if it meant breaking Chinese law.\" A story in \"The Wall Street Journal\" remarked that the case \"dramatize[s] the harshness of the one-child policy.\" The incident prompted Evan Osnos, the \"New Yorker\" writer\",\" to create a feature piece titled \"Abortion and Politics in China.\" Osnos said that \"the Feng case is emblematic of some of the most inflammatory issues on Chinese public life\", including money, government corruption, the household registration system, and of course family planning, and that \"the case is a dramatic demonstration of exactly why the Communist Party had reason to be afraid of the Internet.\"\n\nOn June 23, \"The Economist\" featured a story on China’s one-child policy, focusing on Feng's forced abortion and how the internet was changing power dynamics in China. \"Three years ago, Ms. Feng's suffering might have gone unnoticed ... But her relatives uploaded the graphic pictures onto the internet, and soon microblogs had flashed them to millions of people across the country,\" writes the article's author. Wang Songlian, a researcher for Chinese Human Rights Defenders, said it was certain that the internet had made discussion of Feng's case possible, but she called the officials' punishments \"isolated\" and said \"government officials are virtually immune in using violence and carrying out the policy by force. We've not seen any significant [change] in holding officials accountable.\"\n\nA June 22 editorial in \"The Australian\" argued against the one-child policy, stating that Feng's case \"one small example of the terrible costs of China's longstanding population control regime\". A June 25 editorial in the \"Herald Sun\", which examined family planning in general, said that Feng \"personifies the end game of forced population limits\".\n\nSeveral commentators have compared Feng Jianmei to Liu Yang, who was in the news at roughly the same time for becoming the first Chinese female in space. On June 17, the \"Tea Leaf Nation\" blog published a story entitled \"Netizens Reflect As One Chinese Woman Touches Heaven, Another Hell\". The story, focused on a widely distributed Sina Weibo post, features pictures of Feng and Liu side by side, and the blogger wrote in the caption \"The stark contrast between the fates of [the] two women ... is the clearest illustration of the torn state of this nation.\" The post was quickly re-tweeted by famous blogger Han Han. By the time the government deleted both posts, the information had already been shared 70,000 times in the first 24 hours. \"The International Herald Tribune\" immediately picked up the story, stating, \"The gruesome abortion incident was cast this weekend against China’s successful launching of its first female astronaut. The sad irony of the two women’s situations was not lost on Chinese netizens.\" Two days later, the \"Global Post\" published the story and commented, \"leave it to Sina Weibo to point out what's important\", explaining that the juxtaposition of the two new stories \"[highlights] China's current troubled and contradictory state ... Some Chinese women get launched into space, others receive injections that kill their unborn child.\"\n\nJournalist Andrew Bolt used Feng's case to editorialize against abortion in Australia, writing, \"Deng Jiyuan has shamed the tyrants of Beijing. But ... he shames us here as well.\" He compared Feng's abortion to famous cases in Australia and concluded that the main difference was the graphic pictures of Feng's baby.\n\n\"Asia Times Online\" featured Feng's story in an editorial titled \"China's addiction to birth planning\". Author Peter Lee remarked that it was \"disturbing\" how many resources the township devoted to persuading Feng, quoting an official as saying, \"On that day, pretty much all of the township leadership and relevant staff all went [to get Feng to the hospital].\" He concluded that the way the case was handled provides strong evidence that at least some of China's leaders are anxious to end the one-child policy. In contrast, an editorial published in \"The Peninsula\" argued that the case showed China's leaders were losing their ability to control local authorities.\n\nHe Yafu says the controversy has damaged the public image of one-child policy in China. Journalist Fareed Zakaria suggested there were signs that the Chinese government was softening its rules, noting the large number of prominent citizens who spoke out against Feng's abortion. Zakaria wrote, \"Even a few years ago, it would have taken a very brave Chinese thinker to pose that question in public.\" However, he said that formal change would be impossible before a change in leadership occurred, and even then would \"take much courage\".\n\nA July 17 piece in \"The Huffington Post\" said that the case \"captured the public imagination in China because it exemplifies broader systemic issues\". Feng's case had been cited by both pro-life and pro-choice advocates in the United States in support of their causes; for pro-life advocates, the case represented \"the kind of 'federally endorsed' abortions that they fear may lie in store for the United States\", while for pro-choice advocates, \"[Feng] should have been granted a choice in the first place.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "54358778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54358778", "title": "Harold Gamsu", "text": "Harold Gamsu\n\nProfessor Harold Richard Gamsu FRCP, FRCPCH (1931–2004) was a neonatologist.\n\nGamsu was born born in Windhoek, Namibia, on 23 January 1931. His father, a Russian Jewish émigré, Barnet Isaac Gamsu, was a businessman.\n\nHe attended Windhoek High School, and then studied at the University of Witwatersrand, graduating in 1954.\n\nHe continued training in paediatrics at the University of Sheffield and Cleveland Metropolitan General Hospital.\n\nIn 1965 he obtained a position as Wates Fellow at King's College Hospital, and was Reader in Neonatal Paediatrics and Director of the Regional Neonatal Unit there from 1979, and Professor of Neonatology from 1994. Upon his retirement in 1995, he became Emeritus.\n\nHe served as honorary secretary of the British Association of Perinatal Medicine from 1980 to 1983.\n\nHe died on 31 August 2004.\n"}
{"id": "35325728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35325728", "title": "Health in Gibraltar", "text": "Health in Gibraltar\n\nAll Gibraltarians are entitled to health care in public wards and clinics at St Bernard's Hospital and primary health care centre. All other British citizens are also entitled to free-of-charge treatment on the Rock on presentation of a valid British passport during stays of up to 30 days. Other EU nationals are equally entitled to treatment on presentation of a valid European Health Insurance Card. Dental treatment and prescribed medicines are free of charge for Gibraltarian students and pensioners.\n\nThe Gibraltar Health Authority, established under the Medical (Gibraltar Health Authority) Act of 1987 is funded through the Gibraltar Group Practice Medical Scheme. It employs around 900 people, handling 37,000 A&E attendances, 40,000 outpatient appointments, and 90,000 GP visits a year. Some specialist care is provided by visiting consultants and in UK and Spanish hospitals. First-line medical and nursing services are provided at the Primary Care Centre, which has 16 GPs, with more specialised services available at St Bernard's Hospital, a 210-bed civilian hospital opened in 2005. Psychiatric care is provided by King George V Hospital.\n\nA Community Mental Health Team was established in 2017, and in 2018 the Gibraltar Health Authority School of Health Studies introduced a Mental Health Nursing degree to tackle difficulties in recruiting mental health nurses. \n"}
{"id": "22008028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22008028", "title": "High School for Medical Professions", "text": "High School for Medical Professions\n\nThe High School for Medical Professions is a public high school located in the Brooklyn neighborhood of Canarsie in New York City. It teaches grades 9 through 12, and enrolls students throughout the New York City school system. \n\nThis high school opened in the buildings of the former Canarsie High School, which was closed due to poor performance and will graduate its last class in 2011. The school will share its facilities with the Urban Action Academy and the High School for Innovation in Advertising and Media. The school is set to focus on training its students for a pre-medical and pre-health sciences curriculum, including the nursing and pharmacy fields. Students will be required to complete 50 hours of community service in nursing homes, hospitals, rehabilitation centers, and medical offices. The school has partnerships with the Bristol Meyers Squibb and Duane Reade pharmaceutical firms.\n"}
{"id": "40949028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40949028", "title": "Home-based program", "text": "Home-based program\n\nHome visiting programs for families with young children have received Federal government support in the United States. A range of programs have been implemented, with evaluation of their effectiveness in terms of health, social and educational outcomes.\n\nIn 2010, the federal Affordable Care Act initiated the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program that allocates $1.5 billion over five years to states that voluntarily provide families with young children with evidence-based home visiting programs. It aims to establish a positive and improved outcome in health, education, and reduced child abuse in families. Home visiting has already been in practice in every state.\n\nThe purpose of federal funding is to identify the most effective early childhood home visiting programs and strengthen them with standards that will produce measurable and efficient outcomes. As of October 2013, 17 states have introduced 32 bills on Home Visiting Programs before legislature. Beginning September 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded grants to states to develop and implement an early childhood home visitation program to promote.\n1. Improvements in maternal and prenatal health,\n2. Infant health,\n3. Child health and development,\n4. Parenting related to child development outcomes, and\n5. School readiness in child abuse, neglect and injuries.\n\nSeveral national Home Visiting Programs have developed and attained standards for successful training and home visiting cases for home visitors as well as for the program supervisors. States and local programs may use these models to establish a program but some local programs also may customize and tailor their programs according to their local needs by utilizing local resources and institutions. Local programs may follow some of elements from the national programs and integrate them, which create varieties of practice models, depending on the needs and availability of the local communities. The local models may not have evidence of consistent outcomes.\n\nThe seven federally approved home visiting models are:\n\nThere are other programs also in review for federal approval. When states apply and are granted of the federal funds, federal legislation provides guidelines on how to specifically distribute the money. For example, at least 75% of the funds must be apportioned on programs that follow one of the approved home visiting models. The rest of the money may be allocated for “promising approaches”, where they have shown some evidence of effectiveness, but yet to have strong assessment of evidence. Local programs may apply for funding in this classification.\n\nHome visitors are trained professionals who focus on early childhood and maternal health; they may be nurses, social workers, or early childhood specialists with additional training. Their scope of practice includes children and maternal health, parenting and family education, child abuse and neglect. Home visitors provide education and resources to parents in multiple layers, such as educating on normal trajectory of early childhood, identifying abnormal development or modifying problematic behavior, offering referrals to community resources, such as Medicaid, job training, employment services, or food assistance. They also provide mental health counseling to parents who may have substance abuse problems, or maternal depression.\n\nHome visiting services aim to support families who are most disadvantaged, or at risk. This population includes first time parents, low-income parents, single or teen parents, as well as parents with substance abuse or addictions, or mental health issues such as maternal depression.\n\nEvidence-based practice means that there has been a set of standards of practices established from clinically proved trials and researches that produced consistently improved outcomes. Individual clinician’s training and organizational and systems changes could influence the implementation of clinical guidelines. The review of home visiting programs reports that intensive and frequent visits from trained professionals to families from the prenatal stage up to the second or third years of the child’s life produces a positive and improved outcome in maternal and child’s health. The frequency could be as often once a week to at least once or twice every month in the beginning stage of home visits.\n\nQuality practices offered by well-trained home visitors in Home Visiting Programs have been shown to be effective in these areas: lower number of low birth weight babies, 50% decrease in child abuse or neglect, 25% increase in reading and math test grades in 1-3 grades, 60% increase in high school graduation rate. If trained visitors diligently follow the standards, the cost-benefit studies have demonstrated returns of investment from $1.75 to $5.70 on every dollar spent.\n\nSocial Security Act, Title V, Section 511 (42 USC 711) states to conduct a statewide assessment on needs of the at-risk population to be eligible for the grant award. It also requires states to achieve “quantifiable, measurable improvements” on the five areas of family life, listed above. HHS appropriates $100 million for fiscal year 2010, $250 million for FY 2011, $350 million for FY 2012, $400 million for FY 2014. 3% of available funding is reserved to fund Indian Tribes.\n\nStates also must file a report to the Secretary of HHS on the progress of the program, which must show improvements on at least four areas at the end of the first three-year period. HHS holds authority to terminate the grant to any states that fail to comply or demonstrate improvements. A final report must be submitted to HHS, no later than December 31, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "22160174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22160174", "title": "Hostelling International Northern Ireland", "text": "Hostelling International Northern Ireland\n\nHostelling International Northern Ireland (HINI) is a not-for-profit organisation providing youth hostel accommodation in Northern Ireland. It is a member of the Hostelling International federation.\n\nThe Youth Hostels Association of Northern Ireland was formed in 1931, around the same time as the Youth Hostels Association (England & Wales) YHA(E&W) and the Scottish Youth Hostels Association (SYHA). All three arose from a slightly earlier proposal to form the Youth Hostel Association of Great Britain.\n\nLike all associations, in its early days it offered spartan facilities for those on walking or cycling holidays to give them the opportunity to explore and experience the countryside in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe name of the association changed to Hostelling International Northern Ireland in the 1990s. It runs three Hostels and one affiliated Hostel. The hostels are in Belfast, Bushmills and Whitepark Bay (near Ballycastle) and the newly refurbished affiliated hostel is situated in Armagh.\n\nAll of the hostels provide a range of rooms, including private twins and doubles - and are suitable for individual backpackers, couples, families and groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5721938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5721938", "title": "Information therapy", "text": "Information therapy\n\nInformation therapy is the use of information in order to meet patients' needs and assist them in making decisions regarding their health. \n\nStudies show that this type of therapy can reduce the cost of healthcare by decreasing the use of healthcare resources, and it can improve the knowledge and medical decision making abilities of patients.\n"}
{"id": "11285059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11285059", "title": "Ingraham Glacier", "text": "Ingraham Glacier\n\nIngraham Glacier is on the south-eastern flank of Mount Rainier, in the U.S. state of Washington. The glacier is named for the Mount Rainier enthusiast Edward Sturgis Ingraham. From the summit ice cap, Ingraham Glacier flows east between Gibraltar Rock, (), and Disappointment Cleaver and south of Little Tahoma Peak (), which divides it from the much larger Emmons Glacier to the north. Descending southeast, it approaches the east flank of Cowlitz Glacier and the two glaciers nearly join at . Meltwater from the glacier drains into the Cowlitz River.\n\nAbout 35,000 years ago, the Ingraham and Cowlitz glaciers flowed down from Mount Rainier to near present-day Mossyrock, Washington. More recently, the Cowlitz - Ingraham glaciers advanced slightly from the mid-1970s to mid-1980s, but have been in a general state of retreat since the end of the Little Ice Age around the year 1850. During the Little Ice Age, the Ingraham and Cowlitz glaciers were combined and terminated at the level but have retreated more than in the last 150 years.\n\nThe worst mountaineering accident in American history occurred in on June 21, 1981, when eleven people lost their lives in an ice fall on the Ingraham Glacier. None of the bodies were ever recovered.\n\n"}
{"id": "12116946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12116946", "title": "Lawn dart effect", "text": "Lawn dart effect\n\nIn psychology, the lawn dart effect occurs when fighter aircraft pilots accelerate horizontally at more than 1 standard gravity. The effect occurs when such extreme stimulation to the vestibular system leads to the perception that the aircraft is climbing, prompting the pilot to lower the aircraft's pitch attitude, or drop the nose.\n\n"}
{"id": "22703630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22703630", "title": "MV Transportation", "text": "MV Transportation\n\nMV Transportation, Inc., based in Dallas, Texas., is the largest privately-owned passenger transportation contracting services firm in the United States. The company provides paratransit, fixed-route, campus and corporate shuttles, and student transportation services, partnering with over 200 city and county government transit agencies, school districts, universities, and corporations. MV serves over 110 million passengers each year across 30 states and Canada with a team of more than 20,000 transit professionals.\n\nMV Transportation, Inc., was founded in 1975 in San Francisco, California, by Alex and Feysan Lodde, who continue to own the company. The Loddes realized the limited transportation options for the elderly and people with disabilities and began providing transportation services throughout the city. By 1990, the landmark Americans with Disabilities Act was passed, mandating comparable transportation for passengers with disabilities. With 15 years of experience in this specialized mode of transport, MV stood ready to provide transportation solutions at scale on behalf of municipalities and transit agencies. \n\nSince that time MV has grown, now generating over $1.3B in annual revenues and representing more than 200 public transit agencies and private companies in performing their passenger transportation service in both the U.S. and Canada. It is the largest privately-owned transportation company in North America, providing paratransit, fixed route, shuttle and school transportation services.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32454564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32454564", "title": "Mechelen-Zuid water tower", "text": "Mechelen-Zuid water tower\n\nThe Mechelen-Zuid water tower is a 143 metre high, combined water and telecommunications tower constructed in 1978. Since 1979, it has supplied the water to the city of Mechelen, Belgium, while also hosting television and telecommunications aerials. The concrete spire passes through a wide disc holding water fifty metres above the ground. Higher up, a smaller disc supports telecommunications equipment. Topped by a decorative stainless steel tube, it is claimed to be the highest water tower in the world.\n\nThis water tower was built to supply an increased demand for water due to the growth of the Mechelen population, and of industry around the city. In March 1977, the City commissioned a design for a water tower with telecom purposes from local engineering firm ITH, who contacted Professor Fernand Mortelmans (University of Leuven), who had been involved with the water tower at Mechelen's northern industrial estate.\n\nThe circular foundation is formed by 127 piles supporting a 19.6 m diameter concrete foundation slab up to 3 m thick at the centre which is 3.2m below ground level. It supports a tall conical hollow shaft of reinforced concrete which rises 120 m above ground level. The base is 9.2 m wide with a constant 0.65 m wall thickness to 44 m above ground at which point the shaft funnels outward to a thickness of 1.84 m over a 7.8m distance,above this is a 1m high and 10.64m wide ring beam which supports the water tank, a shallow bi-conical structure 40 m in diameter of 2,500m capacity. Above this container the towers's wall thickness is 0.50 m thick, diminishing to 0.20 m; it reaches the smallest diameter of 3.40m at 120 m. The top of the tower is capped by a 20 m decorative stainless steel structure which narrows from 170 cm to 65 cm at the top, which supports a red warning beacon, a 3m pole of 15 cm diameter, and a lightning rod.\n\nThe main body of the supporting shaft was built up by slip forming. Around it, the water tank was constructed in prestressed concrete at ground level: Stiffness is provided by 0.35 m thick walls, which subdivide it into sixteen sectors. The 0.30 m thick tank bottom is angled at 17° to the horizontal, the top surface is shallower. The container was raised into its final position by cables: once in position the lifting cables were used to support the tank body from the ring beam on the shaft, being tensioned within concrete columns. Finally the base of the tank was concreted to the tower shaft.\n\nA 10 m diameter platform at about 100 m supports the radio transmission equipment, other telecommunications equipment (Parabolic antennas) were positioned above the water tank.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47806417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47806417", "title": "Mental Health Systems Act of 1980", "text": "Mental Health Systems Act of 1980\n\nThe Mental Health Systems Act of 1980 (MHSA) was United States legislation signed by President Jimmy Carter which provided grants to community mental health centers. During the following Ronald Reagan administration, the United States Congress repealed most of the law. The MHSA was considered landmark legislation in mental health care policy.\n\nCoinciding with a movement during the 1970s for rehabilitation of people with severe mental illnesses, the Mental Health Systems Act supported and financed community mental health support systems, which coordinated general health care, mental health care, and social support services. The law followed the 1978 Report of the President's Commission on Mental Health, which made recommendations for improving mental health care in the United States. While some concerns existed about the methodology followed by the President's Committee, the report served as the foundation for the MHSA, which in turn was seen as landmark legislation in U.S. mental health policy.\n\nThe Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, signed by President Ronald Reagan on August 13, 1981, repealed most of the MHSA. The Patients' Bill of Rights, section 501, was not repealed; per Congressional record, the Congress felt that state provisions were sufficient and section 501 served as a recommendation to states to review and refine existing policies.\n\n"}
{"id": "3373356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3373356", "title": "Minister of Health (France)", "text": "Minister of Health (France)\n\nMinister of Health and Solidarity is a cabinet position in the Government of France. The health portfolio oversees the health care public services and the health insurance part of the French Social Security. As French ministerial departments are not fixed and depend on the Prime Minister's choice, the Minister sometimes also has one or some of other portfolios among Work, Pensions, Family, the Elderly, Handicapped people and Women's Rights. In that case, he is helped by one or some junior Minister focusing on one part of the portfolio. The current Minister is Agnès Buzyn.\n\n"}
{"id": "28405515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28405515", "title": "Ministry of Social Protection (Colombia)", "text": "Ministry of Social Protection (Colombia)\n\nThe Ministry of Social Protection () was a national executive ministry of the Government of Colombia responsible for coordinating and implementing the national policy and social services relating to employment, labour, health and social security; it operated from 2002 to 2012.\n\nCreated as part of a larger ministerial reform aimed at reducing the national operating budget, it consolidated the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and the Ministry of Health. It was eventually divided again into the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health and Social Protection.\n"}
{"id": "48221862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48221862", "title": "Murder of Richard Everitt", "text": "Murder of Richard Everitt\n\nOn 13 August 1994, 15-year-old Richard Everitt was stabbed to death in London in a racially motivated attack. Everitt's neighbourhood, Somers Town, had been the site of ethnic tensions, and although he was not involved in gangs, he was murdered by a gang of British Bangladeshis who were seeking revenge on another White British boy. \n\nThe murderer was not apprehended, as members of the gang fled to Bangladesh. Badrul Miah and Showat Akbar were tried in 1995 as the ringleaders of the gang and were given life sentences, with minimum terms of 12 years and three years in custody respectively.\n\nSomers Town, in the London Borough of Camden, was experiencing urban decay in the early 1990s. Many of its white families had been moved onto newer estates, and the ones who remained lived in poverty and unemployment, and felt in conflict with Bengalis. Bengalis were living in the neighbourhood's worst housing, with problems of overcrowding due to their larger-than-average families.\n\nWhite youths and Bengali youths respectively chose to attend different schools and youth clubs, and interracial relationships were shunned. Hate crimes occurred in the area, with statistics showing that they were predominantly against Bengalis: white locals claimed that this was from exaggerated reports by Bengalis in order to achieve better housing, as well as the police ignoring racial motivations in crimes against white people. Bengalis claimed that their complaints were going unheard.\n\nRichard Everitt attended South Camden Community School, where the ethnic tensions continued, although he was not involved in them. His mother had previously complained when he was allegedly threatened with a knife by an Asian pupil.\n\nOn the night of 13 August 1994, Everitt returned from playing football to ask for permission to go to Burger King with his friends. They encountered a gang of fifteen Bengali youths aged 18–19 and began to run, but Everitt was caught and stabbed with a seven-inch kitchen knife in his shoulder blades, piercing his heart. His friends notified his parents, who came to him as he was loaded into the ambulance. Everitt died at the hospital.\n\nEleven men were arrested and bailed shortly after Everitt was stabbed.\n\nThe trial began on 5 October 1995 at the Old Bailey. On 1 November, Badrul Miah was found guilty of conspiring to murder Everitt and was given a 'life' sentence with a minimum of 12 years in prison; Showat Akbar was found guilty of violent disorder and sentenced to three years' youth detention. Their gang had been seeking revenge on a white teenager suspected of stealing their jewellery, and Miah boasted that he had \"stabbed up a white boy\". Miah and Akbar were deemed by the judge to have been the ringleaders of the attack, but she stated that the identity of the killer was unknown as some of the gang members had fled to Bangladesh.\n\nIn 2006, Miah was given four days' unsupervised release to attend his sister's wedding.\n\nEveritt's murder was received with shock in Somers Town. A Bengali teenager told \"The Independent\" \"The boy seems to have had nothing to do with trouble. We are so shocked that Bengali boys could do this. It is the innocent increasingly who are suffering\". The Deputy Headmaster of Everitt's school told the press that cohesion was generally good at the school. Jalal Uddin, a Bengali activist, spoke of his fears that revenge attacks could continue perpetually.<ref name=news/\n\nA Halal butcher's was firebombed, and white gangs attacked Bengalis. Bengalis told family members to stay indoors, and the police increased their presence in order to combat the gangs. A white gang member said that he would not accept support from the British National Party because \"the BNP comes down here, gets everyone whipped up and then when the trouble starts we get it and they run away\".\n\nAfter the convictions, Everitt's family were abused by Bengali neighbours, and moved to Essex before settling in Haworth, West Yorkshire. His mother successfully campaigned for stronger sentences for knife crime.\n\nThe murder was mentioned by \"India Today\" as attributable to a decline in values among British Asian youth, who were previously considered a model minority but were becoming increasingly involved with drugs and gangs.\n\nIn response to Everitt's murder, the KXL Camden United project was founded using football to bring young people together. The football team is for players aged 15 to 19.\n\nSocialist Workers Party activist Alan Walter launched Camden Action Now alongside Everitt's parents, offering youth activities and aiming to unite the community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57469172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57469172", "title": "N.A. Semashko City Hospital No. 1", "text": "N.A. Semashko City Hospital No. 1\n\nN.A. Semashko City Hospital No. 1 is a large hospital in Rostov-on-Don.\n\nCentral Hospital № 1 of the city of Rostov-on-Don begins its history in June 1922, when the Don district hospital was opened in the city. The new hospital was opened on the place of the infectious barracks of the military evacuation hospital, where they fought epidemics of cholera, typhus, dysentery and other diseases of this type. The chief doctor of the new hospital was Dr. E.B Libenzon. In September of the same year, the Nikolaev City Hospital and the medical faculty of the University of Warsaw moved to the hospital. Until the end of the year, another surgical department under the leadership of Leon Solomonovich Astvatsaturov started operating. Children department of Nikolaev hospital took one of the repaired barracks and calculated 30-40 beds. In the same building a nursery for the hospital staff was organised. The therapeutical department under the leadership of Perfiliev was designed for 70 beds.\n\nThe hospital equipment was the basis of the new hospital's three-room laboratory; The head of the laboratory was Dr. M.I. Shyschal, the first dissector was D.V. Khovansky, who was soon replaced by Professor I.I. Krinitsky, who really developed the hospital's pro-sectoral service. Krinitsky became the organizer of the clinical-anatomical conferences and, as pointed out by local historian Minas Bagdykov, founded a new pathoanatomical school.\n\nIn 1923, an infectious disease department was established in the hospital. It was designed to solve the problems of fighting typhus, cholera and malaria. The future academician B.I Trusevich became its first head. In the next two years, two more infectious departments were created, later the total number of beds in all three departments reached 300. The children's infectious disease department was designed for 120 patients with scarlet fever. It was headed by Dr. M.E Lansberg. Later the ward for the sick with measles (1925) appeared, it was followed by chicken pox and diphtheria in 1926.\n\nIn 1926, according to the project of Moscow architects Golosov, Grinberg and Ilyin, the construction of a model hospital began and completed in 1930. The new hospital had 2,100 beds, its chief doctor was Dr. S. Klyachkin. The therapeutic department of the new hospital occupied a separate two-story building with 220 beds (since 1933 it was based on the Department of Hospital Therapy of Rostov University, until 1954, headed by Professor AS Voronov, then Professor NM Ivanov).\n\nSince 1931, the hospital had a separate children's hospital with 120 places, headed by Dr. E.M Grinberg. Later the children's departments of the hospital were used by the Department of Children's Diseases of Rostov University under the direction of Professor I. Y. Serebriisky. In 1931 an otolaryngological department was opened. The medical institute immediately began operating on its base. D.I. Zimont was the director until 1953, later he was replaced by the head of the department of ENT Khanamirov, who created his own school).\n\nAfter the restoration of the right wing of the hospital, which suffered greatly during the Great Patriotic War, the eye clinic moved into it. In the hospital complex also includes the Oncology Center.\n\nComplex Hospital № 1, named Semashko is one of two architectural monuments of the Soviet avant-garde in Rostov-on-Don. It is the second object of this style after Rostov Drama Theater. The facades of the hospital are made of facing sand-lime bricks, the architecture is functional: according to the shape of the windows you can understand which rooms are behind them.\n\nWhen the hospital administration decided to construct a new 12-storey building and to demolish the old buildings. An inquiry was instituted. A compromise solution allowed to combine the construction of a new building with preservation of architectural monuments. But in 2012 the conflict flared up again. The hospital management addressed directly to the governor Vasiliy Golubev. The Regional Office initiated an expert examination in Stavropol and asked for the support of A.P Kudryavtsev, the Chairman of the Academic Council for the Protection of the Heritage of the Russian Academy of Architecture and Building Sciences.\n\nAt the beginning 2013, the administration of the Rostov region recognized the complex of hospital buildings as an object of cultural heritage of international significance. In December of the same year, the governor authorized the work on reconstruction of the complex, which will be completed by October 2014.\n"}
{"id": "5284255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5284255", "title": "Norwegian Directorate for Health and Social Affairs", "text": "Norwegian Directorate for Health and Social Affairs\n\nThe Norwegian Directorate for Health and Social Affairs () is a specialised directorate for health and social affairs. The Directorate is an integral part of the central administration of health and social affairs in Norway, and is organised under the joint auspices of the Ministry of Health and Care Services and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.\n\nThe directorate changed its name from Norwegian Directorate of Health and Social Affairs to Norwegian Directorate of Health () by April 1, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "759377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=759377", "title": "Orchitis", "text": "Orchitis\n\nOrchitis or orchiditis (from the Ancient Greek ὄρχις meaning \"testicle\"; same root as \"orchid\") is inflammation of the testes. It can also involve swelling, heavy pains and frequent infection, particularly of the epididymis, and is more rarely known as didymitis (as in \"epididymis\").\n\nSymptoms of orchitis are similar to those of testicular torsion. These can include:\n\nOrchitis can be related to epididymitis infection that has spread to the testicles (then called \"epididymo-orchitis\"), sometimes caused by the sexually transmitted diseases chlamydia and gonorrhea. It has also been reported in cases of males infected with brucellosis. Orchitis can also be seen during active mumps, particularly in adolescent boys.\n\nIschemic orchitis may result from damage to the blood vessels of the spermatic cord during inguinal herniorrhaphy, and may in the worst event lead to testicular atrophy.\n\n\nIn most cases where orchitis is caused by epididymitis, treatment is an oral antibiotic such as cefalexin or ciprofloxacin until infection clears up. In both causes non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as naproxen or ibuprofen are recommended to relieve pain. Sometimes stronger pain medications in the opiate category are called for and are frequently prescribed by experienced emergency department physicians.\n\nOrchitis is not rare in bulls and rams.\n\nIt has also been described in roosters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42289370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42289370", "title": "Ottoi Călin", "text": "Ottoi Călin\n\nOttoi Călin (March 1886 - April 1, 1917) was a Romanian physician, journalist and socialist militant, considered one of the theoreticians of the Romanian workers' movement during the early 20th century.\n\nCălin was born in a poor Jewish family in Iaşi, in north-eastern Romania. After finishing high school, he obtained a medical degree from the local university. During his teen years, along with other young students, he frequented the \"Circle of Social Studies\" organized by socialists Leon Ghelerter and Max Vexler. The \"Circle\", the main left-wing association in Moldavia at the time, played a major role in shaping future leaders of the Romanian socialist movement, such as Mihail Gheorghiu Bujor and Ilie Moscovici. Beside participating in the \"Circle\", Călin lectured on natural and social sciences for a local adult school. Beginning with 1908, he published regularly in the \"Viitorul Social\" magazine, with his articles targeting primarily theoretical and tactical issues. Among his noted contributions of the time are a brief biography on Karl Marx, providing an analysis of the latter's contributions to the development of scientific socialism, and a history of the Paris Commune, presented as a proof of the viability of proletarian rule. During the same period, Călin also worked towards the establishment of a socialist youth organization. In 1910 he was one of the representatives of the Iaşi socialists at the Congress that formalised the creation of the Social Democratic Party (PSD).\n\nAfter graduating in 1911, with the support of fellow party-members, Călin left for Western Europe in order to further his medical studies. Following a brief stay in Berlin, he arrived in Paris, where he joined the existing Romanian socialist group comprising, among others, Christian Rakovsky, Ioan Sion and Barbu Lăzăreanu. Călin used the occasion to forge relations with the local socialist party. Continuing his theoretical pursuits, he was particularly influenced by the ideas Jean Jaurès, embracing pacifism.\n\nReturning to Romania, Călin settled in Bucharest and practised medicine, specializing as an internist. At the same time he continued his journalistic activity, writing for \"Viitorul Social\" and \"România Muncitoare\", and lectured on the history of socialist doctrines for the \"Socialist School\" set up by the party in Romania's capital. Along with many of the leading party members, Călin was one of the founding members of \"Casa Poporului\", a cooperative society established in October 1914 in order to manage the various party headquarters across Romania. As a recognition for his efforts, in 1913, the Executive Committee of the PSD designated him as the editor in chief of the second series of \"Viitorul Social\", position he would hold until 1915. The main responsible with the magazine's columns on the international socialist movement, he also continued to contribute articles on major theoretical themes, such as parliamentarism, the universal vote, and the socialist attitude towards the war . Around this time, he also held, under the pseudonym \"Ioan Otescu\", the weekly medical column in \"Seara\", and published research articles in \"Higiena\", concentrating on illnesses prevalent among the poor. Furthermore, Călin translated Gorky's The Mother and, along with Bujor, Karl Kautsky's commentary on the Erfurt Program.\nA delegate to the 1914 PSD Congress, Călin advocated a more militant party position on the agrarian issue, and was decisive in the adoption of neutrality as the party's stance towards World War I. In October 1915, at the Extraordinary PSD Congress, he prepared the main report, which commented on the attitude of the European socialist movement towards the war. The report, critical of the Bureau of the Second International, adopted the anti-militarist stance of the first Zimmerwald Conference, while at the same time providing that, were Romania to join the war, the socialists would take no action that would damage the government. The report was approved by a large majority. At the same Congress, Călin was also elected to the party's Executive Committee, along with Ecaterina Arbore, Alecu Constantinescu, Gheorghe Cristescu, I.C. Frimu, Dimitrie Marinescu, and Christian Rakovsky. During the following months, he took part in the organisation of various anti-war protests across the country.\n\nIn the second part of 1916, as Romania joined the war on the side of the Entente, Călin was drafted as a combat medic, and was later assigned to the military ambulance. Retreating to Moldavia along with the whole Romanian Army, he contracted typhus during the epidemic that ravaged the region during the war. Transported to Iaşi for treatment, he died there in early April 1917. Over one thousand workers and socialists were present on at his burial, which became the first major socialist public gathering in Romania after the start of the war. The manifestation, and especially the anti-war eulogy given by Bujor, which called on the Romanian workers to follow the example of the anti-monarchic revolution in Russia, resulted in a major crack-down by the authorities on the renascent socialist movement in Moldavia.\n\n"}
{"id": "14126388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14126388", "title": "Outline of skiing", "text": "Outline of skiing\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to skiing:\n\nSkiing is a recreational activity using skis as equipment for traveling over snow. Skis are used in conjunction with boots that connect to the ski with use of a binding.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSki\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSki lift\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2905175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2905175", "title": "Paris sewers", "text": "Paris sewers\n\nThe sewers of the French capital Paris date back to the year 1370 when the first underground system was constructed under Rue Montmartre. Consecutive French governments enlarged the system to cover the city's population, including expansions under Louis XIV and Napoleon III, and modernisation programs in the 1990s under Mayor Jacques Chirac. The system has featured in popular culture through its existence, including Victor Hugo's 1862 novel, \"Les Misérables\", and H. L. Humes' 1958 novel \"The Underground City\".\n\nUntil the Middle Ages, the drinking water in Paris was taken from the River Seine. The wastewater was poured onto fields or unpaved streets, and finally filtered back into the Seine. Around 1200, Phillipe Auguste had the Parisian streets paved, incorporating a drain for wastewater in their middle. In 1370 Hugues Aubriot, a Parisian provost had a vaulted, stone-walled sewer built in the \"rue Montmartre\". This sewer collected the wastewater and took it to the \"Menilmontant brook\". However, the wastewater was still drained in the open air.\n\nUnder the reign of Louis XIV, a large ring sewer was built on the right bank, and the Bièvre River was used as a sewer for the left bank of the Seine. On at least two occasions in the late 1700s, Paris refused to build an updated water system that scientists had studied. Women were actually carrying water from the river Seine to their residences in buckets. Voltaire wrote about it, saying that they \"will not begrudge money for a Comic Opera, but will complain about building aqueducts worthy of Augustus\". Louis Pasteur himself lost three children to typhoid. Under Napoleon I, the first Parisian vaulted sewer network was built. It was 30 km long. \n\nIn 1855, as a part of his plan to improve the sanitation and traffic circulation in Paris, Napoleon III ordered the construction of new boulevards, aqueducts and sewers. His prefect for the Seine, Baron Haussmann, and the engineer Eugène Belgrand, designed the present Parisian sewer and water supply networks. Thus was built, more than a century ago, a double water supply network (one for drinking water and one for non drinking water) and a sewer network that was 600 km long in 1878. From 1880 to 1913, efforts were taken to connect Parisian buildings to the sewers (they were most at the time \"connected to the city's clean water network and the rest had access to free neighborhood taps (\"fontaines\")\"). By 1914, 68% of all buildings in Paris had direct connections to the sewer. Research shows that this contributed to a decline in mortality.\n\nBelgrand's successors went on extending the Parisian network: from 1914 to 1977, more than 1000 km of new sewers were built.\n\nAt the end of World War I, the 50 km² of sewage fields were no longer sufficient to protect the Seine. A general sewage treatment programme, designed to meet the needs for 50 years, was drawn up and became state-approved in 1935: this was the beginning of industrial sewage treatment.\n\nThe aim was to carry all the Parisian wastewater to the Achères treatment plant using a network of effluent channels. Since then, the Achères plant has continued to grow. At the end of 1970, it was one of the biggest sewage treatment plants in Europe. Its actual capacity is more than 2 million cubic metres per day.\n\nThis programme has been gradually upgraded: modernization of the Achères and Noisy-le-Grand (a small station farther upstream) facilities, construction of a new plant at Valenton, and expansion of the Colombes experimental station.\n\nThe aims of the modernization programme launched by the Mayor of Paris in 1991 were: to protect the Seine from storm overflow pollution by reducing the amount of untreated water discharged directly into the Seine, to reinforce the existing sewers, to enable the network to function better.\n\nThis project, which is costing an estimated 152 million euros over the first 5 years, will include:\n\n\nThe sewer system is described in Victor Hugo's 1862 novel, \"Les Misérables\" (Part 5, \"Jean Valjean\"; Book II, \"The Intestine of the Leviathan\", ch.1, \"The Land Impoverished by the Sea\"): \"...Paris has another Paris under herself; a Paris of sewers; which has its streets, its crossings, its squares, its blind alleys, its arteries, and its circulation, which is slime, minus the human form.\"\n\nThe sewer system plays a key part in H. L. Humes' 1958 novel, \"The Underground City\". Humes, an American novelist, was a cofounder of the \"Paris Review\".\n\nThe sewer features in a section of Max Brook's \"World War Z\". Many people fled to the sewers to escape the dead, but were followed, leaving one of the most dangerous campaigns of the \"war\".\n\nIn the American television show \"The Honeymooners\" episode \"The Man from Space\", broadcast 31 December 1955, sewer worker Ed Norton comes in dressed as an 18th-century fop, and announces that he will win the Raccoon lodge costume ball because he is dressed as \"Pierre Francois Brioschi, designer of the Paris sewers.\"\n\nThe Paris Sewer Museum (), is dedicated to the sewer system of Paris. Tours of the sewage system have been popular since the 1800s and are currently conducted at the sewers. Visitors are able to walk upon raised walkways directly above the sewage itself. The entrance is near the Pont de l'Alma.\n\n"}
{"id": "6384037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6384037", "title": "Paternity fraud", "text": "Paternity fraud\n\nPaternity fraud, also known as misattributed paternity or paternal discrepancy, is when a man is incorrectly identified to be the biological father of a child. The underlying assumption of paternity fraud is that the mother deliberately misidentified the biological father. Paternity fraud is related to the historical understanding of adultery.\n\nResearch published in 2016 indicated that one in 50 British fathers is unknowingly raising a child who is the biological child of another man, and that misattributed paternity is rarer than commonly believed.\n\nA 2005 scientific review of international published studies of paternal discrepancy found a range in incidence, around the world, from 0.8% to 30% (median 3.7%). However, as many of the studies were conducted between the 1950s and the 1980s, numbers may be unreliable due to the inaccuracies of genetic testing methods and procedures used at the time. Studies ranging in date from 1991 to 1999, quote the following incidence rates: 4.0% (Canada), 2.8% (France), 1.4% and 1.6% (UK), and 11.8% (Mexico), 0.8% (Switzerland). These numbers suggest that the widely quoted and unsubstantiated figure of 10% of non-paternal events is an overestimate. However, in studies that solely looked at couples who obtained paternity testing because paternity was being disputed, there are higher levels; an incidence of 17% to 33% (median of 26.9%). Most at risk were those born to younger parents, to unmarried couples and those of lower socio-economic status, or from certain cultural groups.\n\nA 2008 study in the United Kingdom found that biological fathers were misidentified in 0.2% (1 in 500) of the cases processed by the Child Support Agency. Of that 0.2%, those resolved with DNA paternity testing between 2004 and 2008 showed that between 10 and 19% of mothers had misidentified the biological father; data about why mothers identified the wrong biological father was not available.\n\nThe Victorian County Court in 2002 awarded Mr. Magill $70,000 compensation for damages and economic loss against his ex-wife as a result of DNA testing in 2000 that showed only one of three children he was paying support for were genetically his.\nThat ruling was later overturned in 2005 by the Victorian Court of Appeal finding that \"intent to deceive\" by the ex-wife had not been proven regarding misrepresentations made by Ms. Magill in birth forms about the children's paternity.\nThis ruling was in turn then appealed with the High Court of Australia.\n\nIn 2006 Australia's High Court struck down the appeal, upholding the 2005 Victorian Court of Appeal ruling.\nChief Justice Murray Gleeson in the 94 page High Court Ruling opined, \"Without doubt the appellant's wife deceived him but the hurtful deception was in her infidelity, not in her failure to admit it.\"\nMr. Magill as part of the ruling was also ordered to pay the Child Support Agency's legal fees during the previous 18 months of litigation.\n\nThe 2006 High Court Ruling led to many calls from within Australia for reforms and changes to the Family Law Act and the Child Support Act to help protect men in Mr Magill's situation.\nBy 2008 putative fathers in Australia could begin using DNA testing to confirm paternity regarding support orders after new changes, \"section 143 of the Child Support (Assessment) Act\", took effect regarding Family Court policies. The Magill case is often cited regarding new law reforms in Australia and is considered a landmark type case.\n\nMr. Cornelio began paying child support for his ex-wife's twins after the couple separated in 1998. The former couple settled upon a joint custody agreement in 2002 that continued Mr. Cornelio's monetary child support for the twins.\nShortly afterwards Ms. Cornelio requested a reduction in visitation time along with an increase in support payments. Mr. Cornelio became suspicious of the paternity of the twins. A subsequent DNA test revealed that he was not their biological father. A request was made by Mr. Cornelio to be excused from paying further child support, claiming to be the victim of misrepresentation or fraud when Ms. Cornelio failed to disclose the extramarital affair when he signed the 2002 joint custody agreement.\n\nThe Ontario Superior Court of Justice in 2008 ruled against the request to be excused or reimbursed for child support payments. Judge van Rensburg, in deciding to deny the request, noted that Mr. Cornelio had wondered at the time of his separation if an affair by his ex-wife had actually been responsible for the twins. \"It was not until access was interrupted and Ms. Cornelio commenced proceedings seeking increased child support that the respondent began pursuing this issue,\" the judge remarked. \"The fact of that relationship – even if it has now become strained – is sufficient to require Mr. Cornelio to continue to contribute toward the children's material needs.\"\n\nThe default in Finnish law as of 2018 is that the husband is the acknowledged father of the child who is born into wedlock (or to a deceased husband). Only if the wife agrees, can that initial determination be set to something else. However, from 2016 the general right the mother to solely allow or prevent the parental investigation was abolished. The default and immediately forcing juridical assumption of paternity of a husband was not changed in the latest 2015 act.\n\nA man can bring up a later legal action to annul his paternity, disregarding of the resistance of his wife. The legal action for annulment may be brought in the district court by a man whose paternity has been determined on the basis of either marriage or by some other authoratitive decision.\n\nA man who has officially acknowledged paternity relinquishes his rights to further actions if he, knowing the woman had a sexual intercourse with another man, or that she has used foreign sperm for fertilization, has stated in writing following birth of the child that the child is biologically his.\n\nOtherwise legally binding prebirth acknowledgment of a man must be rejected, if either the health care staff of the child supervisor do have a founded suspicion that the man is not a father of the child, or he is for any reason not capable to understand what he is doing when acknowledging the paternity.\n\nIf a mother deliberately gives false information to the authorities, which contributes to the erroneous establishment of paternity, she may be fined.\n\nIn 2004, a South Korean man was awarded $42,380 compensation for pain and suffering when a DNA test established that his ex-wife's paternity claim regarding their child was misattributed. When Mr. Doe, who had married Ms. Doe based on her paternity claim, began a lawsuit against a hospital for switching his child at birth, Ms. Doe claimed to having been pregnant with another man's baby.\n\nOn 5 January 2015, the Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland (decision 5A_619 of 2015) decided on a case wherein a plaintiff challenged the paternity of his (alleged) daughter. The plaintiff had his sperm examined in November 2009. As a result of the examination, the plaintiff’s fertility was found to be 3%. The court contended that the alleged father should have started investigating his paternity as a consequence of that finding. The plaintiff actually had his non-paternity confirmed via DNA evidence in 2013 upon failure of his marriage. The court held that the one year time limit under Swiss civil code article 260c for filing an action lapsed due to the plaintiff’s (the alleged father’s) inactivity for more than two years. The Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland thus confirmed the ruling by the first instance and dismissed the appeal. It follows that the plaintiff’s financial obligations as to his (alleged) daughter will not change.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, paternity fraud, like adultery, is not a criminal offence except in the case of the lineage of the children of the British monarch under the Treason Act 1351 where the adulterers are punishable as adultering against the lineage of the King with the King's \"companion, ... or the wife of the King's eldest son and heir\". Knowingly making a false statement on a public document is a criminal offence, including naming someone who is not the biological father. As of 2008, no individual has been prosecuted in a case involving paternity fraud. A mother is permitted to not state the name of the biological father if she does not know it. Paternity fraud is a form of misattributed paternity.\n\nThe split in 2002 between a couple, identified for legal reasons as Mr. A and Ms. B, prompted Mr. A to pursue a parental contract to establish his non-married rights as their child's father. Ms. B then requested a DNA test that later showed Mr. A was not the (then) five year old's father. Following the discovery Mr. A then sued Ms. B for damages of up to £100,000 as a result of the deceit.\n\nDuring 2007 in what was reported as the first known case of its kind to reach trial in Britain, the High Court ruled in favor of awarding £7,500 distress damages with another £14,943 for holidays and meals out Mr. A spent on Ms. B (not the child). The judgment fell short of listed suit amount because the London court did not allow damages for the child's material costs incurred because of Mr. A's enjoyment of the relationship. The judge, Sir John Blofeld, said he was satisfied that Mr. A's motivation in coming to court was not as a lever for contact with the child but because he did not want \"to be taken for a ride\".\n\nThe United States has historically imposed a strong presumption of marital paternity, and has also imposed barriers to paternity challenges once paternity has been legally established. In more recent years, especially since the advent of DNA testing, laws and guidelines have been proposed or enacted that may allow for a paternity challenge by a legal father who later determines he is not a child's biological father, or by a biological father who learns that somebody else has been named on a child's birth certificate as the child's father.\n\nIn the case of \"County of Los Angeles v. Navarro\", in 1996, the County of Los Angeles entered a default judgment against putative father Mr. Navarro and ordered him to pay monthly support for Ms. Doe's two children. The complaint to establish paternity filed by the Bureau of Family Support Operations was based on information provided by Ms. Doe naming \"Manuel Nava\" as the children's father. The agency determined that Mr. Navarro was the father in question and delivered notice to his sister's residence listing Mr. Navarro as \"co-resident\", a notice Mr. Navarro denied ever receiving.\n\nIn 2001 Mr. Navarro, armed with a DNA test showing he was not the children's father, sued the County of Los Angeles asking to be relieved from the support order. The County of Los Angeles opposed the motion, arguing the motion was filed after the six month limit to contest a default judgment and the mother’s mere assertion that he was the father was insufficient to establish extrinsic fraud. The trial court sided with the County and denied the motion. This ruling was then appealed before the California 2nd Appellate Court of Appeal.\n\nIn 2004 the court of appeal reversed the trial court decision ruling in favor of Mr. Navarro and became the first published California case to hold that the statute of limitations did not apply in setting aside an old default judgment against a paternity fraud victim. Immediately after the ruling was issued, the Los Angeles County Child Support Services Department announced that it would request that the case be depublished so it could not be used as a precedent by other men in Mr. Navarro's situation. That request was later denied by the California Supreme Court.\n\nIn the case of \"Parker v. Parker\", as part of their 2001 Florida divorce settlement Mr. Parker was obliged to pay $1200 monthly child support based on Ms. Parker's representations to the court that Mr. Parker was the child's biological father. In 2003 Ms. Parker filed a motion for contempt and a petition to enforce child support against Mr. Parker which prompted a DNA test showing that Mr. Parker was not the child's biological father.\nThe motion was 16 months after their divorce, Florida law (at that time) only allowed the husband 12 months to contest paternity following divorce.\nMr. Parker's court ordered payments would total about $216,000 over the next fifteen years.\n\nMr. Parker filed a petition for relief claiming that the misrepresentation of paternity had resulted in a fraudulent support order. This was dismissed by both the Trial and then, in 2005, the Court of Appeal as being intrinsic fraud and subject to the Florida one year time limit to contest a dissolution decree, not extrinsic fraud, or a fraud upon the court, that can form the basis for relief from judgment more than a year later. This ruling was then appealed before the Florida Supreme Court who, in 2007, denied Mr. Parker's suit upholding the Fourth District Court of Appeal 2005 ruling.\n\nDuring 2006, the Florida statutes changed allowing a DNA test to be considered new evidence to contest a support order after the one year time limit.\nIn its published opinion the Supreme Court Ruling in 2007 noted the change in Florida Statutes, \"which provides the circumstances and procedures under which a male may disestablish paternity and terminate a child support obligation,\" however the court decided not to consider the applicability of this new statute to Mr. Parker's circumstances, kicking the question of a retrial under the new law back to the Trial Courts.\n\nBecause the basic facts are little questioned and the case explores differences between extrinsic and intrinsic fraud, other state Supreme Courts, including Iowa and Tennessee, have cited \"Parker v. Parker\" when writing opinions of their own for paternity fraud type cases.\n\nIn 2012 the Iowa Supreme Court in ruling to allow a paternity fraud tort to proceed as they fall \"within the traditional boundaries of fraud law\", but advised caution in bringing cases, as they would be \"hard to prove, emotional and embarrassing\".\n\nIn the case of \"Barreras v. Trevino\", Mr. Barreras and Ms. Trevino divorced in 1999 with Ms. Trevino shortly afterwards gaining a support order for her supposed daughter with Mr. Barreras named as the putative father. In 2004 a New Mexico court ruled that the child Mr. Barreras had (up until then) paid $20,000 support to Ms. Trevino for did not actually exist.\nMr. Barreras sued a DNA testing laboratory in 2006 for falsifying two separate DNA tests for the supposed child by using samples taken from his adult daughter who, along with one of the lab employees, also face fraud charges.\nMs. Trevino pleaded guilty in 2008 to charges of fraud and perjury, and was sentenced to twenty-one years in prison. Trevino served 16 months in federal prison in Arizona for claiming the non-existent girl on tax returns.\n\nAs part of the paternity fraud Ms. Trevino was able to obtain a birth certificate, medicare card and social security card for the fictitious girl prompting (then) Gov. Bill Richardson to direct New Mexico Department of Human Services to explain how several government agencies became not only unwitting partners in the fraud, but also resisted efforts to correct it.\nLetters and calls from Mr. Barreras to the New Mexico child support agency about his vasectomy in 1998 were ignored and when the child support enforcement division's order to bring the supposed child in for more paternity tests were not complied with by Ms. Trevino the agency simply closed the case without further investigation.\n\nIn the case of \"Hodge v. Craig\" in October 2012, intentional misrepresentation of paternity was recognized by a unanimous Tennessee Supreme Court in \"Hodge v. Craig\", a case where the mother intentionally lied to a man about who the father of the child was. Based on the mother's assurances the couple married but later divorced. The plaintiff dutifully paid child support including medical insurance for the child. Based on physical differences between himself and the child he obtained a tissue sample and confirmed his suspicions. Damages were awarded in compensation for child support paid for 15 years. The court's decision was based on the common law remedy of intentional misrepresentation; the court distinguished the award of damages from a retroactive modification of child support. The action was for damages; it was not a suit to disestablish paternity.\n\nThe topic of paternity fraud is controversial. In the \"Journal of Medical Ethics\", Heather Draper writes, \"claims for reimbursement and compensation in cases of misattributed paternity produce the same distorted and thin view of what it means to be a father that paternity testing assumes, and underscores a trend that is not in the interests of children.\" Lyn Turner says that the concept of paternity fraud is about the \"demonization of mothers\".\n"}
{"id": "676406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=676406", "title": "Plethysmograph", "text": "Plethysmograph\n\nA plethysmograph is an instrument for measuring changes in volume within an organ or whole body (usually resulting from fluctuations in the amount of blood or air it contains).\n\nPulmonary plethysmographs are commonly used to measure the functional residual capacity (FRC) of the lungs—the volume in the lungs when the muscles of respiration are relaxed—and total lung capacity.\n\nIn a traditional plethysmograph, the test subject is placed inside a sealed chamber the size of a small telephone booth with a single mouthpiece. At the end of normal expiration, the mouthpiece is closed. The patient is then asked to make an inspiratory effort. As the patient tries to inhale (a maneuver which looks and feels like panting), the lungs expand, decreasing pressure within the lungs and increasing lung volume. This, in turn, increases the pressure within the box since it is a closed system and the volume of the box compartment has decreased to accommodate the new volume of the subject.\n\nBoyle's Law is used to calculate the unknown volume within the lungs. First, the change in volume of the chest is computed. The initial pressure of the box times its volume is considered equal to the known pressure after expansion times the unknown new volume. Once the new volume is found, the original volume minus the new volume is the change in volume in the box and also the change in volume in the chest. With this information, Boyle's Law is used again to determine the original volume of gas in the chest: the initial volume (unknown) times the initial pressure is equal to the final volume times the final pressure. Starting from this principle, it can be shown that the functional residual capacity is a function of the changes in volume and pressures as follows:\n\nformula_1\n\nThe difference between full and empty lungs can be used to assess diseases and airway passage restrictions. An obstructive disease will show increased FRC because some airways do not empty normally, while a restrictive disease will show decreased FRC. Body plethysmography is particularly appropriate for patients who have air spaces which do not communicate with the bronchial tree; in such patients helium dilution would give an incorrectly low reading.\n\nAnother important parameter, which can be calculated with a body plethysmograph is the airway resistance. During inhalation the chest expands, which increases the pressure within the box. While observing the so-called resistance loop (cabin pressure and flow), diseases can easily be recognized. If the resistance loop becomes planar, this shows a bad compliance of the lung. A COPD, for instance, can easily be discovered because of the unique shape of the corresponding resistance loop.\n\nSome plethysmograph devices are attached to arms, legs or other extremities and used to determine circulatory capacity.\nIn water plethysmography an extremity, e.g. an arm, is enclosed in a water-filled chamber where volume changes can be detected. Air plethysmography uses a similar principle but based on an air-filled long cuff, which is more convenient but less accurate.\nAnother practical device is mercury-filled strain gauges used to continuously measure circumference of the extremity, e.g. at mid calf.\nImpedance plethysmography is a non-invasive method used to detect venous thrombosis in these areas of the body.\n\nAnother common type of plethysmograph is the penile plethysmograph. This device is used to measure changes in blood flow in the penis. Although some researchers use this device to assess sexual arousal and sexual orientation, \"Courts that have considered penile plethysmography generally rule that the technique is not sufficiently reliable for use in court.\" An approximate female equivalent to penile plethysmography is vaginal photoplethysmography, which optically measures blood flow in the vagina.\n\nPlethysmography is a widely used method in basic and preclinical research to study respiration. Several techniques are used:\n\nWhole-body plethysmography is used to measure respiratory parameters in conscious unrestrained subjects, including quantification of bronchoconstriction.\n\nThe standard plethysmograph sizes are for the study of mice, rats and guinea pigs. On request, larger plethysmographs can also be manufactured for other animals, such as rabbits, dogs, pigs, or primates.\n\nThe plethysmograph has two chambers, each fitted with a pneumotachograph. The subject is placed in one of them (subject chamber) and the other remains empty (reference chamber).\n\nThe pressure change is measured by a differential pressure transducer with one port exposed to the subject chamber and the other to the reference chamber.\n\nThe double-chamber plethysmograph (dcp) measures respiratory parameters in a conscious restrained subject, including airway resistance and conductance. Different sizes of plethysmograph exist to study mice, rats or guinea pigs.\n\nThe head-out configuration is identical to the standard configuration described above except that there is no head chamber.\n\nOf course the collar seal is still applied, so that the body chamber remains airtight. With only a thoracic signal, all parameters can be obtained except for specific airway resistance (SRaw) and specific airway conductance (Sgaw).\n\nIn anesthetized plethysmography, lung resistance and dynamic compliance are measured directly because the subject is anesthetized.\n\nDepending on the level of sedation, the subject may be spontaneously breathing (SB configuration) or under mechanical ventilation (MV configuration).\nA flow signal and a pressure signal are required to calculate compliance and resistance.\n\nCerebral venous blood flow has been recently studied trying to establish a connection between Chronic cerebrospinal venous insufficiency and multiple sclerosis. The small study is not big enough to establish a conclusion, but some association has been shown.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6834939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6834939", "title": "Point source pollution", "text": "Point source pollution\n\nA point source of pollution is a single identifiable source of air, water, thermal, noise or light pollution. A point source has negligible extent, distinguishing it from other pollution source geometries. The sources are called \"point sources\" because in mathematical modeling, they can be approximated as a mathematical point to simplify analysis. Pollution point sources are identical to other physics, engineering, optics, and chemistry point sources and include: \n\n"}
{"id": "651370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=651370", "title": "Precocious puberty", "text": "Precocious puberty\n\nIn medicine, precocious puberty is puberty occurring at an unusually early age. In most cases, the process is normal in every aspect except the unusually early age, and simply represents a variation of normal development. In a minority of children, the early development is triggered by a disease such as a tumor or injury of the brain. Even when there is no disease, unusually early puberty can have adverse effects on social behavior and psychological development, can reduce adult height potential, and may shift some lifelong health risks. Central precocious puberty can be treated by suppressing the pituitary hormones that induce sex steroid production. The opposite condition is delayed puberty.\n\nThe term is used with several slightly different meanings that are usually apparent from the context. In its broadest sense, and often simplified as early puberty, \"precocious puberty\" sometimes refers to any physical sex hormone effect, due to any cause, occurring earlier than the usual age, especially when it is being considered as a medical problem. Stricter definitions of \"precocity\" may refer only to central puberty starting before a statistically specified age based on percentile in the population (e.g., 2.5 standard deviations below the population mean), on expert recommendations of ages at which there is more than a negligible chance of discovering an abnormal cause, or based on opinion as to the age at which early puberty may have adverse effects. A common definition for medical purposes is onset before 8 years in girls or 9 years in boys.\n\n\"Pubertas praecox\" is the Latin term used by physicians in the 19th century. Early pubic hair, breast, or genital development may result from natural early maturation or from several other conditions.\n\nIf the cause can be traced to the hypothalamus or pituitary, the cause is considered central. Other names for this type are \"complete\" or \"true precocious\" puberty.\n\nCauses of central precocious puberty can include:\n\nCentral precocious puberty can be caused by intracranial neoplasm, infection (most commonly central nervous system tuberculosis especially in developing countries), trauma, hydrocephalus, and Angelman syndrome. Precocious puberty is associated with advancement in bone age, which leads to early fusion of epiphyses, thus resulting in reduced final height and short stature.\n\nPrecocious puberty can make a child fertile when very young, with the youngest mother on record being Lina Medina, who gave birth at the age of 5 years, 7 months and 17 days, in one report and at 6 years 5 months in another.\n\n\"Central precocious puberty (CPP) was reported in some patients with suprasellar arachnoid cysts (SAC), and SCFE (slipped capital femoral epiphysis) occurs in patients with CPP because of rapid growth and changes of growth hormone secretion.\"\n\nIf no cause can be identified, it is considered idiopathic or constitutional.\n\nSecondary sexual development induced by sex steroids from other abnormal sources is referred to as \"peripheral precocious puberty\" or \"precocious pseudopuberty.\" It typically presents as a severe form of disease with children. Symptoms are usually as a sequelae from adrenal insufficiency (because of 21-hydroxylase deficiency or 11-beta hydroxylase deficiency, the former being more common), which includes but is not limited to hypertension, hypotension, electrolyte abnormalities, ambiguous genitalia in females, signs of virilization in females. Blood tests will typically reveal high level of androgens with low levels of cortisol.\n\nCauses can include:\n\nGenerally, patients with precocious puberty develop phenotypically appropriate secondary sexual characteristics. This is called \"isosexual\" precocity.\n\nSometimes a patient may develop in the opposite direction. For example, a male may develop breasts and other feminine characteristics, while a female may develop a deepened voice and facial hair. This is called \"heterosexual\" or \"contrasexual\" precocity. It is very rare in comparison to isosexual precocity and is usually the result of unusual circumstances. As an example, children with a very rare genetic condition called aromatase excess syndrome in which exceptionally high circulating levels of estrogen are present usually develop precocious puberty. Males and females are hyperfeminized by the syndrome.\n\nMany causes of early puberty are somewhat unclear, though girls who have a high-fat diet and are not physically active or are obese are more likely to physically mature earlier. \"Obese girls, defined as at least 10 kilograms (22 pounds) overweight, had an 80 percent chance of developing breasts before their ninth birthday and starting menstruation before age 12 – the western average for menstruation is about 12.7 years.\" Exposure to chemicals that mimic estrogen (known as xenoestrogens) is a possible cause of early puberty in girls. Bisphenol A, a xenoestrogen found in hard plastics, has been shown to affect sexual development. \"Factors other than obesity, however, perhaps genetic and/or environmental ones, are needed to explain the higher prevalence of early puberty in black versus white girls.\" While more girls are increasingly entering puberty at younger ages, new research indicates that some boys are actually starting later (delayed puberty). \"Increasing rates of obese and overweight children in the United States may be contributing to a later onset of puberty in boys, say researchers at the University of Michigan Health System.\"\n\nHigh levels of beta-hCG in serum and cerebrospinal fluid observed in a 9-year-old boy suggest a pineal gland tumor. The tumor is called a \"chorionic gonadotropin secreting pineal tumor\". Radiotherapy and chemotherapy reduced tumor and beta-hCG levels normalized.\n\nIn a study using neonatal melatonin on rats, results suggest that elevated melatonin could be responsible for some cases of early puberty.\n\nFamilial cases of idiopathic central precocious puberty (ICPP) have been reported, leading researchers to believe there are specific genetic modulators of ICPP. Mutations in genes such as LIN28, and LEP and LEPR, which encode leptin and the leptin receptor, have been associated with precocious puberty. The association between LIN28 and puberty timing was validated experimentally in vivo, when it was found that mice with ectopic overexpression of LIN28 show an extended period of pre-pubertal growth and a significant delay in puberty onset.\n\nMutations in the kisspeptin (KISS1) and its receptor, KISS1R (also known as GPR54), involved in GnRH secretion and puberty onset, are also thought to be the cause for ICPP However, this is still a controversial area of research, and some investigators found no association of mutations in the LIN28 and KISS1/KISS1R genes to be the common cause underlying ICPP.\n\nThe gene MKRN3, which is a maternally imprinted gene, was first cloned by Jong et al in 1999. MKRN3 was originally named Zinc finger protein 127. It is located on human chromosome 15 on the long arm in the Prader-Willi syndrome critical region2, and has since been identified as a cause of premature sexual development or CPP. The identification of mutations in MKRN3 leading to sporadic cases of CPP has been a significant contribution to better understanding the mechanism of puberty. MKRN3 appears to act as a \"brake\" on the central hypothalamic-pituitary access. Thus, loss of function mutations of the protein allow early activation of the GnRH pathway and cause phenotypic CPP. Patients with a MKRN3 mutation all display the classic signs of CCP including early breast and testes development, increased bone aging and elevated hormone levels of GnRH and LH.\n\nStudies indicate that breast development in girls and the appearance of pubic hair in girls and boys are starting earlier than in previous generations. As a result, \"early puberty\" in children, particularly girls, as young as 9 and 10 is no longer considered abnormal, although it may be upsetting to parents and can be harmful to children who mature physically at a time when they are immature mentally.\n\nNo age reliably separates normal from abnormal processes in children, but the following age thresholds for evaluation are thought to minimize the risk of missing a significant medical problem:\n\nMedical evaluation is sometimes necessary to recognize the few children with serious conditions from the majority who have entered puberty early but are still medically normal. Early sexual development warrants evaluation because it may:\n\nEarly puberty is believed to put girls at higher risk of sexual abuse, unrelated to pedophilia because the child has developed secondary sex characteristics; however, a causal relationship is, as yet, inconclusive. Early puberty also puts girls at a higher risk for teasing or bullying, mental health disorders and short stature as adults. Helping children control their weight is suggested to help delay puberty. Early puberty additionally puts girls at a \"far greater\" risk for breast cancer later in life. Girls as young as 8 are increasingly starting to menstruate, develop breasts and grow pubic and underarm hair; these \"biological milestones\" typically occurred only at 13 or older in the past. African-American girls are especially prone to early puberty. There are theories debating the trend of early puberty, but the exact causes are not known.\n\nThough boys face fewer problems upon early puberty than girls, early puberty is not always positive for boys; early sexual maturation in boys can be accompanied by increased aggressiveness due to the surge of hormones that affect them. Because they appear older than their peers, pubescent boys may face increased social pressure to conform to adult norms; society may view them as more emotionally advanced, although their cognitive and social development may lag behind their appearance. Studies have shown that early maturing boys are more likely to be sexually active and are more likely to participate in risky behaviours.\n\nOne possible treatment is with anastrozole. Histrelin, triptorelin, or leuprorelin, any GnRH agonists, may be used. Non-continuous usage of GnRH agonists stimulates the pituitary gland to release follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). However, when used regularly, GnRH agonists cause a decreased release of FSH and LH. Prolonged use has a risk of causing osteoporosis. After stopping GnRH agonists, pubertal changes resume within 3 to 12 months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13140056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13140056", "title": "Programme of Action for Cancer Therapy", "text": "Programme of Action for Cancer Therapy\n\nProgramme of Action for Cancer Therapy (PACT) is a programme created by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in 2004 to build upon the Agency’s experience in radiation medicine and technology, and enable developing countries to introduce, expand or improve their cancer care capacity and services in a sustainable manner by integrating radiotherapy into a comprehensive cancer control programme that maximizes its therapeutic effectiveness and impact. Such a programme integrates and aligns cancer prevention, surveillance, screening and early detection, treatment and palliative care activities and investments, and is set up based on the Guidelines of the World Health Organization (WHO). It also addresses other challenges such as infrastructure gaps and, through partnerships, builds capacity and long term support for continuous education and training of cancer care professionals, as well as for community-based civil society action to combat cancer.\n\nPACT has its headquarters in Vienna, Austria.\n\nPACT and its partners are developing multidisciplinary cancer capacity building projects called PACT Model Demonstration Sites (PMDS). As of 2010, there are eight PMDS: Albania, Ghana, Mongolia, Nicaragua, Sri Lanka, United Republic of Tanzania, Vietnam and the Republic of Yemen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37188627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37188627", "title": "Queer Crips", "text": "Queer Crips\n\nQueer Crips: Disabled Gay Men and Their Stories is a 2004 anthology edited by Bob Guter and John R. Killacky. The book is a collection of personal stories from gay men with disabilities. The stories are told through a variety of literary genres, including poetry, prose, and interviews. The book won the 2004 Lambda Literary Award for the Anthologies/Non-fiction category. Contributors to the book include gay men such as Greg Walloch, Kenny Fries, J. Quinn Brisben, and Eli Clare. After being turned down for publication by 30 publishers, the anthology was finally published by Harrington Park Press, an imprint of Haworth Press.\n\nThe \"Disability Studies Quarterly\", the publication of the Society for Disability Studies, wrote a review of \"Queer Crips\", stating that:\nWhile Queer Crips can definitely boast of well-crafted, gorgeous poetry, there are a few exceptions. Perhaps it is only a matter of taste, but some of the poetry is of the cathartic type without the \"craft\" elements of formal published poetry or the spectacle of a performance piece. However, what is great about including such poetry is that it elevates all expressions of feeling and, in a sense, truly captures the sharing of the soul that poetry is.\nIn the book \"Crip Theory: Cultural Signs of Queerness and Disability\", Robert McRuer notes that the stories in \"Queer Crips\" are \"nonheteronormative in their broadest sense\" and that it is \"striking how much the convergence of disability and homosexuality in \"Queer Crips\" appears to authorize erotic inventiveness and play\". McRuer further writes that the anthology implicitly draws a parallel between compulsory heterosexuality and \"compulsory able-bodiedness\".\n"}
{"id": "179580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179580", "title": "The Myth of Mental Illness", "text": "The Myth of Mental Illness\n\nThe Myth of Mental Illness: Foundations of a Theory of Personal Conduct is a 1961 book by the psychiatrist Thomas Szasz, in which the author criticizes psychiatry and argues against the concept of mental illness. It received much publicity, and has become a classic, well known as an argument against the tendency of psychiatrists to label people who are \"disabled by living\" as \"mentally ill\".\n\nSzasz writes that he became interested in writing \"The Myth of Mental Illness\" in approximately 1950, when, having become established as a psychiatrist, he became convinced that the concept of mental illness was vague and unsatisfactory. He began work on the book in 1954, when he was relieved of the burdens of a full-time psychiatric practice by being called to active duty in the navy. Later in the 1950s, it was rejected by the first publisher to whom Szasz submitted the manuscript. Szasz next sent the manuscript to Paul Hoeber, director of the medical division of Harper & Brothers, who arranged for it to be published.\n\nSzasz argues that it does not make sense to classify psychological problems as diseases or illnesses, and that speaking of \"mental illness\" involves a logical or conceptual error. In his view, the term \"mental illness\" is an inappropriate metaphor and there are no true illnesses of the mind. His position has been characterized as involving a rigid distinction between the physical and the mental.\n\nThe legitimacy of psychiatry is questioned by Szasz, who compares it to alchemy and astrology, and argues that it offends the values of autonomy and liberty. Szasz believes that the concept of mental illness is not only logically absurd but has harmful consequences: instead of treating cases of ethical or legal deviation as occasions when a person should be taught personal responsibility, attempts are made to \"cure\" the deviants, for example by giving them tranquilizers. Psychotherapy is regarded by Szasz as useful not to help people recover from illnesses, but to help them \"learn about themselves, others, and life.\" Discussing Jean-Martin Charcot and hysteria, Szasz argues that hysteria is an emotional problem and that Charcot's patients were not really ill.\n\n\"The Myth of Mental Illness\" is a well known argument against the tendency of psychiatrists to label people who are \"disabled by living\" as mentally ill. It received much publicity, quickly became a classic, and made Szasz a prominent figure. The book was reviewed in the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\", \"Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease\", \"Psychosomatic Medicine\", \"Archives of General Psychiatry\", \"Clinical Psychology Review\", and \"Psychologies\". Published at a vulnerable moment for psychiatry, when Freudian theorizing was just beginning to fall out of favor and the field was trying to become more medically oriented and empirically based, the book provided an intellectual foundation for mental patient advocates and anti-psychiatry activists. It became well known in the mental health professions and was favorably received by those sceptical of modern psychiatry, but placed Szasz in conflict with many doctors. Soon after \"The Myth of Mental Illness\" was published, the Commissioner of the New York State Department of Mental Hygiene demanded, in a letter citing the book, that Szasz be dismissed from his university position because he did not accept the concept of mental illness.\n\nThe philosopher Karl Popper, in a 1961 letter to Szasz, called the book admirable and fascinating, adding that, \"It is a most important book, and it marks a real revolution.\" The psychiatrist David Cooper wrote that \"The Myth of Mental Illness\", like R. D. Laing's \"The Divided Self\" (1960), proved stimulating in the development of anti-psychiatry, though he noted that neither book is itself an anti-psychiatric work. He described Szasz's work as \"a decisive, carefully documented demystification of psychiatric diagnostic labelling in general.\" Socialist author Peter Sedgwick, writing in 1982, commented that in \"The Myth of Mental Illness\", Szasz expounded a \"game-playing model of social interaction\" which is \"zestful and insightful\" but \"neither particularly uncommon nor particularly iconoclastic by the standards of recent social-psychological theorising.\" Sedgwick argued that many of Szasz's observations are valuable regardless of the validity of Szasz's rejection of the concept of mental illness, and could easily be accepted by psychotherapists. Although agreeing with Szasz that the assignation of mental illness could undermine individual responsibility, he noted that this did not constitute an objection to the concept itself.\n\nThe philosopher Michael Ruse, writing in \"\" (1988), called Szasz the most forceful proponent of the thesis that mental illness is a myth, but while sympathetic to Szasz, considered his case over-stated. Ruse criticized Szasz's arguments on several grounds, maintaining that while the concepts of disease and illness were originally applied only to the physiological realm, they can properly be extended to the mind, and there is no logical absurdity involved in doing so. Kenneth Lewes wrote that Szasz's book is the most notable example of the \"critique of the institutions of psychiatry and psychoanalysis\" that occurred as part of the \"general upheaval of values in the 1960s\", though he saw the work as less profound than Michel Foucault's \"Madness and Civilization\" (1961). The psychiatrist Peter Breggin called \"The Myth of Mental Illness\" a seminal work. Richard Webster, writing in \"Why Freud Was Wrong\" (1995), observed that while some of Szasz's arguments are similar to his, he disagreed with Szasz's view that hysteria was an emotional problem and that Charcot's patients were not genuinely mentally ill. The lawyer Linda Hirshman wrote that while few psychiatrists adopted the views Szasz expounded in \"The Myth of Mental Illness\", the book helped to encourage a revision of their diagnostic and therapeutic claims. The historian Lillian Faderman called Szasz's book the most notable attack on psychiatry published in the 1960s, adding that \"Szasz's insights and critiques would prove invaluable to the homophile movement.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916535", "title": "Toxics use reduction", "text": "Toxics use reduction\n\nToxics use reduction is an approach to pollution prevention that targets and measures reductions in the upfront use of toxic materials. Toxics use reduction emphasizes the more preventive aspects of source reduction but, due to its emphasis on toxic chemical inputs, has been opposed more vigorously by chemical manufacturers. Toxics use reduction (TUR) can be subdivided into direct and indirect. Direct use focuses on substituting inputs in the production process and redesigning products to use less or no toxic chemicals. In the indirect process, there are process modifications, operation improvements, and recycling of chemicals.\n\nIn the United States, toxics use reduction programs were set up by some state legislatures during the early 1990s, including in Massachusetts, New Jersey and Oregon. Program elements may include mandatory reporting of toxic chemical use, reduction planning requirements, research and technical assistance. In the mid-1990s, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency considered toxics use reporting or materials accounting as an expansion of the public right to know on toxic chemical use. In 1990, Congress issued the Pollution Prevention Act of 1990 to try to reduce toxins. Though the restrictions are limited, it is still practiced in over thirty states. The agency issued an advance notice of its proposed rule making in 1996, though toxics use reporting was not adopted.\n\nThe Massachusetts Toxics Use Reduction Act (TURA) program of 1989 requires facilities that use large amounts of toxic chemicals are required to report on their chemical use, conduct toxics use reduction planning every two years, and pay a fee. The fees paid by TURA filers support the work of the TURA implementing agencies, and are used to provide a wide variety of services to toxics users, including education, training, grant programs and technical assistance. The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, the Massachusetts Toxics Use Reduction Institute, and the Massachusetts Office of Technical Assistance and Technology (OTA) implement the goals of TURA.\n\nIn Europe, attention to toxics use reduction may be seen in the European Union's new regulatory framework (adopted 2003) for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH).\n\nLatin America and Asia have industrialized at tremendous rates over the past decades. In doing so, governments focused on output to develop the economy while not paying attention to the environment. This has resulted in toxic accumulation in the land and in water sources. Organisations such as Clean Production Action have published resources for activists to formulate strategies to lobby governments for a less toxic producing industrial processes.\n\nIn Southern China, the Pearl River delta has a high level of toxic accumulation because the area has heavy production facilities which provide 30% of China’s exports. The rivers serves as source of water supply to 47 million people yet still continues to be a dumping site. TURA’s guideline are being used in China to account for the toxic waste in the river and to come up with solution to reduce it. In a study conducted in Thailand, it was concluded that implementing a tax policy can greatly reduce toxicity emissions. The main concern is to ensure that the lower and middle-class families don’t get affected by these policies, thus progressive toxic emission strategy should be enforced where taxation depends on much toxicity an individual or a family produces. n Argentina’s Rio Chuela area, there are around 4100 factories. The toxic emissions are so high that the river is turning black. After a lawsuit from the Citizen’s Action, the court directed factories to reduce the toxic emissions by 50% over five years. To achieve this goal, TURA’s guidelines have been effective in helping the Argentinian government build a framework for its industrial sector.\n\nThere has been a push to focus on the upstream production process to reduce toxins. The idea is to regulate emissions in the early phase of the production process rather than controlling pollution results once the toxins are released into the environment. Governments, private companies and local communities are being brought together to find ways to reduce pollution output rather than pollution control. For example, private companies such as PaperWorks Packaging Group from Ontario, Canada have taken initiative to reduce toxic elements in the production process. The company was using toxic materials in the cleaning solutions which would escape into the atmosphere. The company decided to eliminate the Stoddard solvent from its production process to produce high quality products that are environmentally responsible.\n\nHowever, there has been hesitation to wholeheartedly follow these toxics use reduction programs from a business standpoint. While some businesses found that by switching to a different chemical instead of the toxic ones, some other companies have not changed their production processes or invested in ways to reduce toxic chemical usage because they are unsure if they will make a large enough profit. Some businesses claim that it is too costly to run a business using alternative chemicals. Other reasons why businesses have not necessarily switched over to a different alternative chemical in lieu of the toxic one could be a lack of knowledge that an alternative exists or the fact that the alternative may not have been created yet.\n\n"}
{"id": "5157727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5157727", "title": "Uterine atony", "text": "Uterine atony\n\nUterine atony is a loss of tone in the uterine musculature. Normally, contraction of the uterine muscles during labor compresses the blood vessels and reduces flow, thereby increasing the likelihood of coagulation and preventing hemorrhage. A lack of uterine muscle contraction, however, can lead to an acute hemorrhage, as the uterine blood vessels are not sufficiently compressed. Clinically, 75-80% of postpartum hemorrhages are due to uterine atony.\n\nMany factors can contribute to the loss of uterine muscle tone, including:\n\n\nThe first step in management of uterine atony is uterine massage. The next step is pharmacological therapies, the first of which is oxytocin, used because it initiates rhythmic contractions of the uterus, compressing the spiral arteries which should reduce bleeding. The next step in the pharmacological management is the use of methylergometrine, which is an ergot derivative, much like that use in the abortive treatment of migraines. Its side effect of hypertension means it should not be used in those with hypertension or pre-eclampsia. In those with hypertension, the use of prostaglandin F is indicated (but beware of its use in patients with asthma).\nAnother option Carbetocin and Carboprost where Oxytocin and ergometrin is inappropriate.\n\n"}
{"id": "9477095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9477095", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Nicaragua", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Nicaragua\n\n\"This article has been written in 2008, with updates concerning access figures in 2012. Please feel free to further update if need be.\"\n\nDrinking water and sanitation in Nicaragua are provided by a national public utility in urban areas and water committees in rural areas. Despite relatively high levels of investment, access to drinking water in urban areas has barely kept up with population growth, access to urban sanitation has actually declined and service quality remains poor. However, a substantial increase in access to water supply and sanitation has been reached in rural areas.\n\nThe water sector underwent major reforms in 1998 that separated policy, regulatory, and operating functions. Decentralization has been proposed for a decade, but implementation was very slow and in mid-2007 was reversed when the national water company took over two municipal systems.\n\n\"Source\": WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation \n\nAccess to water supply and sanitation in urban areas of Nicaragua has been declining, since there has been little expansion in access while population levels have increased. Even though the JMP found coverage levels to be at 85% in 2010, the Nicaraguan Water and Sewerage Enterprise (ENACAL), the public utility responsible for provision of water and sanitation services to urban areas, estimates that effective coverage is less than 60 percent due to insufficient and unreliable service. There have been significant improvements in rural areas, however, since 1990. Access to improved water supply in rural areas has increased significantly from 54% in 1990 to 68% in 2010.\n\nAccess to improved sanitation in rural areas has increased from 43% in 1990 to 52% in 2010. According to the 2005 census, access to improved water supply in Nicaragua was 77% in 2005, which is lower than the JMP estimate of 83%. Access to improved sanitation was 85% according to the 2005 census which is higher than the JMP estimate of 50%. The difference can be largely explained by the fact that the JMP definition takes into account only improved latrines with a complete structure that are in service, while the census also counts abandoned or traditional latrines.\n\nWater supply in 47% of localities monitored by the regulatory agency (46 out of 96 systems) is not continuous. This share is higher in the dry season, between the months of February and May, than in the wet season. Poor quality and efficiency of water service are serious concerns in the Managua region. The existing water supply in Managua cannot meet current demand due to high rates of leakage and wastage, which account for 55% of total water produced and distributed by the system.\n\nInterruptions in service provision are common, with some households receiving service for less than 2 hours per day. Only 42 percent of connections in Managua have meters operating in good condition. Additionally, ENACAL, the national utility responsible for water provision in Managua, has been labelled as \"one of the most notorious overbillers in the country\".\n\nBacteriological urban drinking water quality was considered acceptable by the WHO based on samples analyzed by the national utility.\n\nIn 2005 CONAPAS estimated that 42% of all collected wastewater in the country was treated. At that moment there was no wastewater treatment system in the city of Managua. The 2005 Census reported that 63% of households have toilet systems which discharge into sewers in Managua, with 30% of the population using pit latrines in settlements, and the remainder using septic tanks managed by five private companies.\n\nIn 1996 a Sanitation Master Plan for the City of Managua was completed and later finalized in 2002. Based on this study, ENACAL is currently overseeing the construction of a water treatment plant and collection system, funded by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the German Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW), and the Nordic Fund, which was completed by December, 2008. This new plant treats 67% of the sewage waters in Managua.\n\nNicaragua is a water-rich country with a water availability of 35,000 cubic meter/capita/year, corresponding to more than five times the average for Central America and the Caribbean. Less than 1% of these water resources is withdrawn for human use. The major water user is agriculture (84% of withdrawals), followed by domestic use (14%) and industry (2%).\n\nRainfall, while abundant, varies greatly. The Caribbean lowlands are the wettest section of Central America, receiving between 2,500 and 6,500 millimeters of rain annually. The western slopes of the central highlands and the Pacific lowlands receive considerably less annual rainfall. Mean annual precipitation for the rift valley and western slopes of the highlands ranges from 1,000 to 1,500 millimeters. Rainfall is seasonal—May through October is the rainy season, and December through April is the driest period.\n\nGroundwater is the main source for municipal water supply in Nicaragua. For example, Managua - which is located on the shores of the polluted Lake Managua - is supplied entirely by groundwater, including by groundwater that infiltrates from the craters of volcanoes - called \"lagoons'\" within the city. For example, Asososca lagoon, to the west, is Managua's most important source of drinking water.\n\nUnder the Somoza government until 1979 the larger urban water systems were operated by the private sector, while a Ministerial department was in charge of water systems in smaller towns. After the revolution a centralized public national water company, the Instituto Nicaragüense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (INAA), was created.\n\nAfter the electoral defeat of Daniel Ortega's first administration (1979–1990) the subsequent governments tried to decentralize service provision without much success. In 1998, under the administration of Arnoldo Alemán (1997–2002), the sector was reformed, but not decentralized. The reform consisted in the separation of policy, regulatory and service provision functions: CONAPAS was created to set policies; ENACAL was created to provide services, taking over most of the staff and assets of INAA; and a new regulatory agency was created that inherited the name INAA.\n\nNeither before the 1998 reform nor afterwards was there much change in the sector towards decentralization or the establishment of public-private partnerships. The financial self-sufficiency of ENACAL improved between 1998 and 2001, but there were public protests against the hardship imposed by higher tariffs. Subsequently, tariffs were frozen during the administration of Enrique Bolaños (2002–2007), leading to a gradual deterioration of the utility's financial situation.\n\nIn 1999, ENACAL, with financial support from the IDB, accepted an international management contract with the goal of restructuring the sector to include private sector participation and transforming ENACAL into a publicly traded company. This project included provisions for decentralization, with private and local water management in the municipalities of León and Chinandega. Protests against privatization put a halt to these reforms and in 2003 the Nicaraguan Legislature passed Law 440 which included a moratorium on any water privatization \"until a national water law has been approved\". Soon after, the Nicaraguan Legislature also changed ENACAL’s status from a “state-owned business” to a “state-owned public utility”.\n\nThe current administration of Daniel Ortega took office in November 2006. This administration does oppose private sector participation and has been critical of autonomous regulation. One option considered by the government is to establish a National Water Authority.\n\nThe current administration has supported a restructuring of the 1999 IDB project. In December 2006 ENACAL signed a five-year service contract which eliminates all private sector development, including the private contracts for the sector in Léon and Chinandega, and gives ENACAL an exclusive service contract for commercial services (meter reading, billing, customer service), supported by the IDB as part of the modernization of ENACAL. The contract has been criticized by a consumer advocacy group which argues the agreement will make access to public water more costly to most Nicaraguans.\n\nIn October 2005 CONAPAS approved a sector strategy that aims - again - at decentralization, financial self-sufficiency and strengthening of the regulator. In addition, it calls for the development of a sustainable operational model for rural areas.\n\nIn January 2007 CONAPAS launched a 10-year comprehensive water and sanitation plan. It foresees investments of US$592m and will focus on rural areas using the Social Fund FISE as an implementing agency.\n\nA new Water Law was passed in November 2007 which gives ENACAL responsibility for supervision and control of service provision in rural areas. Although the law's implication for institutional responsibilities is not yet clear, a strategy for the entire sector is under preparation by ENACAL—rather than CONAPAS—and should shed some light on the institutional roles in the sector.\n\nThe responsibilities in the water and sanitation sector in Nicaragua are defined in\n\n\nA General Water Law (Ley General de Aguas Nacionales), which is focused on water resources but also covers a number of water supply and sanitation issues as well, was approved by Parliament on September 9, 2007.\n\nResponsibility for policy setting in the Nicaraguan water and sanitation sector is vested in the National Council for Drinking Water and Sanitation - Comisión Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado Sanitario (CONAPAS). CONAPAS includes the Secretariat of the Presidency, whose representative presides the Council, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment, the national utility ENACAL, the regulatory agency INAA, the Institute for Territorial Studies (INETER) and the Social Investment Fund FISE.\n\nThe regulatory agency, the National Water and Sewerage Institute - Instituto Nicaragüense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados, INAA - is in charge of sector regulation. It handles customer complaints, approves tariff increases and can provide concessions for service providers. However, there were no tariff increase requests between August 2002 and February 2008 and no requests for concessions, so that the regulator has been condemned to inactivity.\n\nAccording to municipal law, municipalities are responsible for providing water and sanitation services in Nicaragua. However, in practice very few municipalities actually provide these services. Instead more than 60% of water users are served by the national water and sewerage company Empresa Nicaragüense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (ENACAL), which serves most urban areas. A further 30% are served by community organizations (potable water committees) in rural areas. Less than 10% of users are served by a departmental water company in Rio Blanco as well as by 26 small municipalities.\n\nAs of 2004 ENACAL had a total of 410,000 registered users in the country, of which Managua represents 50 percent. ENACAL has 18 regional departments. Some of these departments have received greater autonomy, such as in the case of Granada, under what is called the \"Modelo de Gestion Descontentrado\".\n\nThe Social Investment Fund FISE finances infrastructure and supports local communities in the management of infrastructure. In the water and sanitation sector it has been particularly active in rural water supply and sanitation.\n\nBesides providing services in urban areas ENACAL also supported community organizations in rural areas and has been quite successful in this field. Both the WHO and the US-financed Environmental Health Project report high levels of sustainability of rural water service provision in projects supported by ENACAL's rural water directorate. However, in 2005, the responsibility for support to rural communities was given to FISE and donor funds are now channeled through it.\n\nThe efficiency of urban service provision is low, with estimated non-revenue water of more than 55% in Managua. ENACAL has taken recent steps to improve efficiency, however and labor productivity has increased from 7.5 employees per 1000 water connections in 2006 to 7.04 in 2007. In 2007 operating and administrative costs decreased by 10%. ENACAL has accomplished these improvements by cutting back on energy usage, increasing billed revenue to 11.6% as of April 2008 through improving their commercial database, expanding metering, and identifying customers who were not previously billed.\n\nDespite these improvements, ENACAL currently has a debt of 436 million córdobas (US$24 million) which is continuously growing as their expenses exceed their earnings by C$31.8 million (US$1.7 million) per month.\n\nOnly 59% of operating costs of ENACAL were recovered through tariff revenues as of 2012. There are many illegal connections that are not billed and many billed customers do not pay their water bills. For the utility, electricity costs for pumping are a major cost item. The government subsidizes operating costs at the tune of about 35 million Euro per year, out of operating costs equivalent to 85 million Euro (2.57 billion Cordoba).\n\nUrban water and sewer tariffs charged by ENACAL have last been increased in 2008. There used to be substantial increases between 1998 and 2001, with annual increases of 28, 27 and 12% in 1998, 1999 and 2000 respectively. Such high and sustained increases were unusual in the region. While these increases allowed the public utility to regain its financial health, in 2001 they led to protests and legal action against a proposed further 30% tariff increase.\n\nAfterwards tariffs have been frozen, eroding again the financial health of the utility. This led to its near bankruptcy and required the National Government to make transfers of an average of US$20 million per year to compensate net losses as of 2005. In February 2008 a water tariff increase was approved to cover the rise in inflation between 2002 and 2006. This increase is to be applied gradually beginning in May 2008, with an average increase of about 16%. Future increases will be approved by INAA.\n\nENACAL tariffs are complex and ostensibly aim at protecting the poor. Tariffs vary depending on the city (although prices are lower in Managua than in the rest of the country most likely because the cost of delivery is also lower), user category (three residential user categories and \"institutions\", the latter paying the highest tariffs; within the residential user categories the ratio between lowest and highest tariffs is 1:3) and consumption (higher tariffs for consumption above 20, 30 and 50 cubic meters per month respectively). The poorest who have no access to water and sewerage or are served by rural water committees are by definition excluded from these subsidies.\n\nIt has been estimated that an average household in the two lowest income quintiles in the interior of the country that receives water services from ENACAL paid the equivalent of US$6.50 per month in 2003, which corresponds to about 7% of its income estimated at US$93 per month. While this share is very high, the bill is probably lower than the economic cost of time spent carrying the water and the burden of disease from unsafe water.\n\nIn July 2007 there was a modification in sewerage tariffs for the City of Managua which allows sewage treatment costs to be partially covered. This change will be applied as soon as the sewage treatment plant becomes operational, which is expected to occur by the end of 2008.\n\nThe government plans to invest 2 billion USD in the water and sanitation sector between 2013 and 2030 as part of its program VIDA - Programa Integral Sectorial de Agua y Saneamiento Humano de Nicaragua, which was elaborated as a draft in 2012. The first phase includes about USD 350 million for 2013 to 2017, or about USD 70 million per year. This would constitute a significant increase compared to previous years.\n\nAccording to the Nicaraguan \"Unidad Pública de Inversiones\" or Public Investment Unit, investments in water and sanitation from 1991-2006 were US$351 million or on average USD 22 million per year. This corresponds to 0.49% of GDP or US$4.5/capita/year. Within that period investment levels increased substantially in 1997. After ranging between US$0.7 and US$1.1 per capita from 1991 to 1996, it went up to US$4.7 to US$9.4 from 1997 to 2006. All in all, the average investment level per capita and year from 1997 to 2003 is higher than in its neighboring countries Costa Rica and Honduras, but lower than in South American countries like Argentina, Peru and Colombia.\n\nInvestments are almost entirely financed by foreign donors and the government passes foreign credits on as grants to ENACAL and to water committees in rural areas. Between 2002 and 2007 ENACAL invested US$162 million in the sector, of which 2% was self-financed by the utility, 5% was financed by the national government with its own resources, and the remaining 93% came from external grants and loans.\n\nThere are no data on investments by NGOs, which provide funds mainly for infrastructure in rural areas.\n\nThe main donors in the water and sanitation sector in Nicaragua are the Spanish development cooperation (AECID) which supports the sector program VIDA, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) that implements the Spanish Water Fund FECASALC, the World Bank with its program to reduce water losses in Managua (PRASMA), a rural program called PRASNICA, a project for adaptation to climate change, Germany through GIZ and KfW, as well as the Swiss Development Cooperation (COSUDE) in rural areas. The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the Nordic Fund, the Japan International Cooperation Agency and other donors also support the sector.\n\nNumerous NGOs are engaged in the water and sanitation sector in Nicaragua, including CARE, Save the Children, Plan International, Health without Limits, Water for Life, Living Water International, blueEnergy and Christian Medical Action.\n\nThe various donors that support the Nicaraguan government in its efforts to improve water supply and sanitation coordinate in a sector table and have subscribed in 2005 to a Sector-Wide Approach (SwAp) to even better coordinate their efforts. However, the sector table is not very active and the VIDA program of Spain and the IDB is now a main vehicle for the dialogue with the government on sector policies.\n\nThe IDB supports many projects in the sector, in both urban and rural areas:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10509965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10509965", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Venezuela", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Venezuela\n\n\"This article has last been comprehensively updated in September 2011. Nevertheless, some information may be out of date, since the source material is from earlier years. Please feel free to further update it if need be.\"\n\nWater supply and sanitation in Venezuela has been extended to an increasing number of people during the 2000s, although many poor remain without access to piped water. Service quality for those with access is mixed, with water often being supplied only on an intermittent basis and most wastewater not being treated. Non-revenue water is estimated to be high at 62%, compared to the regional average of 40%. Tap water is relatively inexpensive, because of a national tariff freeze imposed in 2003 and a policy not to recover capital costs. Investments are financed primarily by the national government, with little reliance on external financing. The sector remains centralized despite a decentralization process initiated in the 1990s that has now been stalled. Within the executive, sector policies are determined by the Ministry of Environment. The national water company HIDROVEN serves about 80% of the population. The remainder is being served by five state water companies, the Corporación Venezolana de Guayana (CVG), a few municipalities and community-based organizations. Since the early 2000s the government encouraged the creation of about 7,500 \"Mesas Tecnicas del Agua\", which have both a technical function and a political mobilization function. Major investment projects include the restoration of the polluted Valencia Lake and of the in Caracas (2005–2013).\n\nIn 2015, 93% of the total population of Venezuela had access to \"improved\" water, or 95% of the urban population and 78% of the rural population. As for sanitation, in 2015, 94% of the total population in Venezuela had access to \"improved\" sanitation, or 97% of the urban population and 70% of the rural population.\n\nIn earlier years, access to water supply and sanitation had reached 93% in 2008, meaning that Venezuela achieved the UN Millennimum Development Goals for water and sanitation ahead of time. The WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Program's estimates from 2008 are based on the 2001 census results and show that 93% of citizens had access to potable water and 91% had access to sanitation. \n\nA study for the Corporación Andina de Fomento (CAF), however, estimates based on figures from the 2001 census and HIDROVEN statistics that only 82% of the population had access to an improved source of water in 2001. The same source also quotes a lower coverage figure for sanitation than the WHO (only 66%). According to the same study over 4.2 million people had no access to piped water and 8 million residents did not have access to adequate sanitary facilities in 2001. \n\nRural consumers are particularly under-serviced – only 66% receive potable water and 40% have access to adequate sanitation. In the period 1990-2001 the share of population with access to water supply and sanitation modestly increased from 81% to 82% for water, and 63% to 66% for sanitation.\n\"Source\": WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme (JMP/2008) and JMP country files for Venezuela. Data are based on an extrapolation of the trend between the 1991 and 2001 Censuses.\n\nIn 2001, the Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas (INE) conducted a study of the quality of water and sanitation services in the country's 335 municipalities and determined that 231 municipalities, approximately 70%, received insufficient water and sanitation services.\n\nIn 2008 about 33% of collected wastewater was treated, up from about 14% in 2003.\n\nWater supply is not uniformly continuous and often fails to meet basic drinking water quality standards. As a result, many consumers are forced to use alternative and more expensive water sources. For example, it is common in the urban ‘barrios’ in central Venezuela for poor consumers to pay the equivalent of approximately US$1.90 m³ – much more than the tariff for water from the network – for water purchased from a tanker.\n\nThere are no reliable figures on water use in Venezuela given the low coverage of metering. According to one estimate, average residential water use was about 230 liter/capita/day in 2004. According to another estimate it was twice as much at 450 liter/capita/day in 2010. In parts of Caracas water use is more than 900 liter/capital/day. This compares to 143 l/c/d in Brazil and 259 l/c/d in Peru.\n\nBefore 1991 a national state-owned enterprise, the Instituto Nacional de Obras Sanitarias (INOS), was in charge of providing water and sanitation services in Venezuela.\n\nWhen INOS was dissolved under the Presidency of Carlos Andrés Pérez the intent was to decentralize service provision to the municipalities that already had the legal responsibility for service provision. However, because of the lack of capacity and resources of most municipalities, service provision in 20 out of the 23 states was temporarily entrusted to the ten regional water companies under the holding company HIDROVEN (see above). In the remaining three states services were provided by the Corporación Venezolana de Guayana (CVG).The Pérez government also launched a bid for a private concession for the water and sanitation system of Caracas in 1992. However, the bid failed for lack of interested bidders under the proposed conditions.\n\nBeginning in 1993 some states began to play a more active role in the sector. Until 1999 five decentralized water companies were created with a strong presence of the state governments (see above under service provision). This process began in Monagas in 1993 with support from the World Bank. Some of them also signed management contracts with private operators, which led to an improvement in the performance of the water and sanitation companies.\n\nBetween 1994 and 2001 water tariffs throughout the country were increased substantially, so that the ratio of cost recovery to operating costs increased from 27% to 87%. Such a substantial real tariff increase, which apparently did not cause political turmoil, is unusual in developing countries. However, the increase in tariffs was not paralleled by improvement in services. According to the IDB sector performance even deteriorated in this period.\n\nThe decentralization process remained very slow. Some municipalities refused to receive the service responsibility unless systems would be modernized, but a mechanism to finance the necessary investments was lacking. About 80% of the population thus continued to be served by HIDROVEN and its subsidiaries, and the slowness of the decentralization process consolidated institutions that were meant to be only temporary.\n\nIn December 2001 the Government of Hugo Chávez passed a new Water and Sanitation Law (Ley Orgánica para la Prestación de los Servicios de Agua Potable y Saneamiento). This law was not passed by Parliament. Instead, together with 45 other laws it was passed by the Executive based on an Enabling Act that temporarily gave the President powers to enact laws and bypass Parliament.\n\nThe law aimed at reforming the institutional structure of the sector through:\n\n\nAccording to the law HIDROVEN had to complete the transfer within no more than five years from the publication of the law, i.e. until December 2006. However, the transfer has been very slow and the deadline has not been met. Only in a few regions the decentralization to municipalities has advanced, notably in the State of Guárico where HIDROPAEZ, one of the regional utilities under the umbrella of HIDROVEN, is in the process of being replaced by five business units. The Government has also completed studies on the formation of business units in the states of Cojedes, Carabobo and Aragua.\nFurthermore, the national institutions foreseen by the law so far have not been created. The Ministry of Environment and HIDROVEN thus continue to undertake the national-level functions that the 2001 law had assigned to the new institutions.\n\nIn February 2003 tariffs were frozen at the national level through an executive decree. This is in direct contradiction with the 2001 law that stipulates the principle of cost recovery and assigns the responsibility to set tariffs to the municipalities.\n\nThe Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources is in charge of setting water and sanitation policies in Venezuela, in line with overall government policies. There is a Vice-ministry of Water within the Ministry and as of August 2007 the Vice-Minister was Cristóbal Francisco Ortiz. HIDROVEN is under the authority of this Ministry. The Ministry of Industry and Commerce sets maximum allowable tariffs in the sector.\n\nWater and sanitation services in Venezuela are provided by the national water company HIDROVEN, five state water companies, the Corporación Venezolana de Guayana (CVG), a few municipalities and community-based organizations.\n\nAccording to the Municipal Law (Ley Orgánica de Régimen Municipal) service provision is a responsibility of the country's 335 municipalities, which own the water and sanitation infrastructure and in principle also set water and sanitation tariffs. However, in practice only few municipalities have the capacity and resources to fulfill these responsibilities.\n\nIn practice service provision in most urban areas of Venezuela is the responsibility of one of ten regional utilities (Empresas Hidrologicas Regionales) affiliated with the Compañía Anónima Hidrológica de Venezuela (HIDROVEN), a state-owned enterprise. Each regional utility covers between one and three of the country’s 23 states. The responsibility for setting tariffs within the maximum levels set by the national government is shared between the regional companies and the municipalities.\n\nSome of the bulk water supply infrastructure which provides water to municipal and state water companies is owned directly by HIDROVEN and its affiliated regional companies.\n\nIn the region of Guayana, covering the states of Bolivar, Amazonas and Delta Amacuro, water and sanitation services in urban areas are provided by the Corporación Venezolana de Guayana (CVG), a conglomerate with its main activities in mining.\n\nThere are also five decentralized water companies at the state level:\n\n\nThe population of these five states is almost 20% of the country's total population.\n\nIn some municipalities services are provided through municipal utilities, such as in Aguas de Anaco in Anzoátegui state, Aguas de Capitanejo and Aguas de Zamora in Barinas state, Aguas de Ejido in Mérida state, and Sucre in Miranda state.\n\nRural water systems are managed by community-based organization, including some cooperatives. In 2003 there were also 20 urban cooperatives that provided water services at the neighborhood level. The Chávez government encourages such \"community experiences\", which also include so-called \"technical water tables\" (Mesas Técnicas de Agua). These are associations involved in monitoring neighborhood-level segments of water supply and sanitation networks, including the identification and reduction of leakage and illegal connections. In 2003 there were about 1,500 such technical water tables in Venezuela.\n\nNon-revenue water stood at 62% in 2000, far above the regional average of 40% and higher than its historical level of 55% in 1996 and 59% in 1997. HIDROVEN suggests illegal connections are a major contributor to poor non-revenue water performance in the country. An inadequate record maintenance and rehabilitation likely also contributes to high losses.\n\nCost recovery. Revenues usually are not sufficient to meet operating costs - the ratio of revenue to operating costs was estimated at 86% in 2002. This was a substantial increase compared to 27% in 1994, 65% in 1997 and 75% in 2000, despite high levels of inflation. As of 2010, 36% of all users, mainly in groups with low ability to pay, received water free of charge. In 2010 Hidrocapital, which serves Caracas, charged on average the equivalent of US$0.41 per cubic meter, while its costs were US$0.44 per cubic meter. For 2008, Hidroven had a sales revenue of MB$786, thus covering 77% of its operation and maintenance costs of MB$1,024.\nTariff level and adjustments. Tariff levels vary substantially within Venezuela by a factor of almost 1:10 between regional companies, reflecting differences in the cost of service provision. The highest tariffs are found in Caracas and the lowest in Aguas de Yaracuy and Llanos. Tariffs were frozen in February 2003 at the national level, leading to a 60% tariff decline in real value because of inflation until 2010.\n\nMetering, billing and collection. In 2008 the share of metered water consumption in total water consumption was 36%, up from only 20% in 1998. However, only about half the meters were read in 2008 with a meter reading rate of only 17.5%. Billing and collection performance is inadequate as total sector collection in 2003 amounted for merely 73% of the total billing. In 1998 this coefficient stood at only 62%. In individual companies the ratio varied greatly between 26% in Yaracuy and 80% in Mérida.\n\nHistorical investment levels There are no recent data on the level of investments in the sector. In the five years between 1997 and 2001 Venezuela invested US$ 637 million in water and sanitation, or about US$ 127 million annually on average. Investment in the sector has historically been volatile. For example, annual investments fluctuated in the 1986-1998 period between less than US$100 million (in 1989) and US$400 million (in 1992). To a large extent investment levels mirror fluctuation in oil prices. Investment levels declined from 1986-1989 when oil prices were very low. Investments skyrocketed in 1992 after oil prices had increased. Then they plummeted again when oil prices decreased during the remainder of the 1990s. The volatility in sector financing has made it difficult to initiate a sustainable medium-term investment program needed to rehabilitate infrastructure and extend access to services.\n\nPlanned investment levels In 2002 the Government adopted an ambitious six-year investment plan for the sector. Under that Plan by the end of 2007 access to potable water and sanitation should both reach 99%, non-revenue water should be reduced to 45%, collection efficiency should increase to 95% and the share of treated wastewater should reach 30%. The plan estimates that a total of US$ 4.77 billion will be required between 2003-2015 for the sector, which implies an average \"annual\" investment of approximately US$ 500 million, or about four times historic investment levels.\n\nSources of financing Before the decentralization of the 1990s investments were almost exclusively financed by central government transfers through a number of different programs, including funds borrowed from international financial institutions and passed on as grants to the service providers. In 2000-2001 state governments and municipalities financed almost half of total investments of US$120m and US$190m respectively. The capital market makes no contribution to sector financing.\n\nProcedures for Investment Financing The 2001 sector law calls for the creation of a Financial Assistance Fund (Fondo de Asistencia Financiera - FAF) to be administered by a new entity called ONDESAPS which would coordinate and target investments in the sector (see section on the new sector law above). Until 2007 neither FAF nor ONDESAPS have been created. Neither investment subsidies nor recurrent subsidies, whether paid by the national government or state governments, are linked to performance improvements.\n\nThe Inter-American Development Bank and the Andean Development Corporation are the main institutions that provide external support for water supply and sanitation in Venezuela. It was reported in 2004 that the lack in the availability of counterpart funds, which the government has to provide as part of their obligations to execute projects financed by external agencies, had paralyzed various large externally financed projects.\n\nInteramerican Development Bank In 2010 the IDB provided a $50 million loan to promote the efficient use of drinking water by replacing pipes and installing meters for 80,000 households in at least five of the subsidiaries of Hidroven, including in the Ocumarito neighborhood in Caracas. Previously the IDB had attempted to support the reform of the water and sanitation sector through a decentralization loan of US$100 million that was approved in 1998 and had to be cancelled subsequently. The loan had aimed at introducing private sector participation, following the model of management contracts in the state of Monagas and Lara.\n\nAndean Development Corporation The Andean Development Corporation (Corporación Andina de Fomento, CAF supported the water and sanitation sector through various loans, including five loans approved until 2003 for a total of US$292m, of which three for HIDROCAPITAL, the subsidiary of HIDROVEN serving Caracas. In 2004 CAF approved a US$15m loan to improve water and sanitation services in the Peninsula of La Guajira in Zulia state. In 2005 the CAF reassigned US$25m from a non-disbursing water and sanitation sector modernization and rehabilitation loan to environmental projects. At the beginning of 2008, the CAF announced that it has approved a water and sanitation loan for the Venezuelan states of Amazonas, Anzoátegui, Aragua, Bolívar, Cojedes, Delta Amacuro, Sucre and Trujillo. The program is estimated to have a total cost of US$72.3m, of which CAF will finance US$50m, the remainder being financed by local counterpart funds. The program will be executed by Hidroven.\n\nCanadian Development Agency The Canadian Development Agency CIDA finances a sanitation project for Caracas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34258", "title": "Yoga", "text": "Yoga\n\nYoga (; ; ) is a group of physical, mental, and spiritual practices or disciplines which originated in ancient India. Yoga is one of the six orthodox schools of Hindu philosophical traditions. There is a broad variety of yoga schools, practices, and goals in Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism. The term \"yoga\" in the Western world often denotes Hatha yoga, a physical practice of postures called asanas.\n\nThe origins of yoga have been speculated to date back to pre-Vedic Indian traditions; it is mentioned in the Rigveda, but most likely developed around the sixth and fifth centuries BCE, in ancient India's ascetic and śramaṇa movements. The chronology of earliest texts describing yoga-practices is unclear, varyingly credited to Upanishads. The \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\" date from the first half of the 1st millennium CE, but only gained prominence in the West in the 20th century. Hatha yoga texts emerged around the 11th century with origins in tantra.\n\nYoga gurus from India later introduced yoga to the West, following the success of Swami Vivekananda in the late 19th and early 20th century. In the 1980s, yoga became popular as a system of physical exercise across the Western world. Yoga in Indian traditions, however, is more than physical exercise; it has a meditative and spiritual core. One of the six major orthodox schools of Hinduism is also called Yoga, which has its own epistemology and metaphysics, and is closely related to Hindu Samkhya philosophy.\n\nMany studies have tried to determine the effectiveness of yoga as a complementary intervention for cancer, schizophrenia, asthma, and heart disease. The results of these studies have been mixed and inconclusive. On December 1, 2016, yoga was listed by UNESCO as an intangible cultural heritage.\n\nThe Sanskrit noun \"\" is cognate with English \"yoke\". It is derived from the \nroot \"\" \"to attach, join, harness, yoke\".\n\nThe spiritual sense of the word \"yoga\" first arises in Epic Sanskrit, in the second half of the 1st millennium BCE, and is associated with the philosophical system presented in the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali,\nwith the chief aim of \"uniting\" the human spirit with the Divine.\nThe term \"kriyāyoga\" has a technical meaning in the \"Yoga Sutras\" (2.1), designating the \"practical\" aspects of the philosophy, i.e. the \"union with the supreme\" due to performance of duties in everyday life\n\nAccording to Pāṇini, the term yoga can be derived from either of two roots, \"yujir yoga\" (to yoke) or \"yuj samādhau\" (\"to concentrate\"). In the context of the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\", the root \"yuj samādhau\" (to concentrate) is considered by traditional commentators as the correct etymology. In accordance with Pāṇini, Vyasa who wrote the first commentary on the \"Yoga Sutras\", states that yoga means \"samādhi\" (concentration).\n\nAccording to Dasgupta, the term yoga can be derived from either of two roots, \"yujir yoga\" (\"to yoke\") or \"yuj samādhau\" (\"to concentrate\"). Someone who practices yoga or follows the yoga philosophy with a high level of commitment is called a yogi (may be applied to a man or a woman) or yogini (a woman).\n\nThe term yoga has been defined in various ways in the many different Indian philosophical and religious traditions.\n\nThe ultimate goal of Yoga is \"moksha\" (liberation), although the exact definition of what form this takes depends on the philosophical or theological system with which it is conjugated.\n\nAccording to Jacobsen, Yoga has five principal meanings:\n\nAccording to David Gordon White, from the 5th century CE onward, the core principles of \"yoga\" were more or less in place, and variations of these principles developed in various forms over time:\n\n\nWhite clarifies that the last principle relates to legendary goals of \"yogi practice\", different from practical goals of \"yoga practice,\" as they are viewed in South Asian thought and practice since the beginning of the Common Era, in the various Hindu, Buddhist, and Jain philosophical schools.\n\nYoga is practised with a variety of methods, including by Jains and Buddhists. In Hinduism, practices include Jnana Yoga, Bhakti Yoga, Karma Yoga, Laya Yoga and Hatha Yoga.\n\nRaja yoga originally denoted the ultimate goal of yoga, \"samadhi\", but was popularised by Vivekananda as the common name for Ashtanga Yoga, the eight limbs to be practised to attain samadhi, as described in the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\".\n\nYoga is considered as a philosophical school in Hinduism. Yoga, in this context, is one of the six \"āstika\" schools of Hinduism (those which accept the Vedas as source of knowledge).\n\nDue to the influence of Vivekananda, the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\" have since the 20th century been considered the foundational scripture of classical yoga. Before then, other works such as the \"Bhagavad Gita\" and the \"Yoga Vasistha\" were considered the most central, while Tantric Yoga and Hatha Yoga prevailed over Ashtanga Yoga.\n\nYoga as described in the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\" refers to Ashtanga yoga. The \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\" is considered as a central text of the Yoga school of Hindu philosophy, It is often called \"Rāja yoga\", \"yoga of the kings,\" a term which originally referred to the ultimate, royal goal of yoga, which is usually \"samadhi\", but was popularised by Vivekananda as the common name for Ashtanga Yoga.\n\nAshtanga yoga incorporates epistemology, metaphysics, ethical practices, systematic exercises and self-development techniques for body, mind and spirit. Its epistemology (\"pramanas\") is same as the Samkhya school. Both accept three reliable means to knowledge – perception (\"pratyākṣa\", direct sensory observations), inference (\"anumāna\") and testimony of trustworthy experts (\"sabda\", agama). Both these orthodox schools are also strongly dualistic. Unlike the Sāṃkhya school of Hinduism, which pursues a non-theistic/atheistic rationalist approach, the Yoga school of Hinduism accepts the concept of a \"personal, yet essentially inactive, deity\" or \"personal god\". Along with its epistemology and metaphysical foundations, the Yoga school of Hindu philosophy incorporates ethical precepts (\"yamas\" and \"niyamas\") and an introspective way of life focused on perfecting one's self physically, mentally and spiritually, with the ultimate goal being \"kaivalya\" (liberated, unified, content state of existence).\n\nHatha yoga, also called hatha vidyā, is a kind of yoga focusing on physical and mental strength building exercises and postures described primarily in three texts of Hinduism:\n\nMany scholars also include the \"Goraksha Samhita\" by Gorakshanath of the 11th century in the above list. Gorakshanath is widely considered to have been responsible for popularizing hatha yoga as we know it today.\n\nVajrayana Buddhism, founded by the Indian Mahasiddhas, has a series of asanas and pranayamas, such as tummo (Sanskrit \"caṇḍālī\") and trul khor which parallel hatha yoga.\n\nIn Shaivism, yoga is used to unite \"kundalini\" with Shiva. See also 'tantra' below.\n\nBuddhist meditation encompasses a variety of meditation techniques that aim to develop mindfulness, concentration, supramundane powers, tranquility, and insight.\n\nCore techniques have been preserved in ancient Buddhist texts and have proliferated and diversified through teacher-student transmissions. Buddhists pursue meditation as part of the path toward Enlightenment and Nirvana. The closest words for meditation in the classical languages of Buddhism are \"bhāvanā\" and \"jhāna/dhyāna\".\n\nJain meditation has been the central practice of spirituality in Jainism along with the Three Jewels. Meditation in Jainism aims at realizing the self, attain salvation, take the soul to complete freedom. It aims to reach and to remain in the pure state of soul which is believed to be pure conscious, beyond any attachment or aversion. The practitioner strives to be just a knower-seer (\"Gyata-Drashta\"). Jain meditation can be broadly categorized to the auspicious \"Dharmya Dhyana\" and \"Shukla Dhyana\" and inauspicious \"Artta\" and \"Raudra\" Dhyana.\n\nSamuel states that Tantrism is a contested concept. Tantra yoga may be described, according to Samuel, as practices in 9th to 10th century Buddhist and Hindu (Saiva, Shakti) texts, which included yogic practices with elaborate deity visualizations using geometrical arrays and drawings (mandala), fierce male and particularly female deities, transgressive life stage related rituals, extensive use of chakras and mantras, and sexual techniques, all aimed to help one's health, long life and liberation.\n\nThe origins of yoga are a matter of debate. There is no consensus on its chronology or specific origin other than that yoga developed in ancient India. Suggested origins are the Indus Valley Civilization (3300–1900 BCE) and pre-Vedic Eastern states of India, the Vedic period (1500–500 BCE), and the śramaṇa movement. According to Gavin Flood, continuities may exist between those various traditions:\nPre-philosophical speculations of yoga begin to emerge in the texts of . Between 200 BCE and 500 CE, philosophical schools of Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism were taking form and a coherent philosophical system of yoga began to emerge. The Middle Ages saw the development of many satellite traditions of yoga. Yoga came to the attention of an educated western public in the mid 19th century along with other topics of Indian philosophy.\n\nYoga may have pre-Vedic elements. Some state yoga originated in the Indus Valley Civilization. Marshall, Eliade and other scholars suggest that the Pashupati seal discovered in Indus Valley Civilization sites depict figures in positions resembling a common yoga or meditation pose. This interpretation is considered speculative and uncertain by more recent analysis of Srinivasan and may be a case of projecting \"later practices into archeological findings\".\n\nAccording to Crangle, some researchers have favoured a linear theory, which attempts \"to interpret the origin and early development of Indian contemplative practices as a sequential growth from an Aryan genesis\", just like traditional Hinduism regards the Vedas to be the ultimate source of all spiritual knowledge. Thomas McEvilley favors a composite model where pre-Aryan yoga prototype existed in the pre-Vedic period and its refinement began in the Vedic period.\n\nAscetic practices, concentration and bodily postures described in the Vedas may have been precursors to yoga. According to Geoffrey Samuel, \"Our best evidence to date suggests that [yogic] practices developed in the same ascetic circles as the early sramana movements (Buddhists, Jainas and Ajivikas), probably in around the sixth and fifth centuries BCE.\"\n\nAccording to Zimmer, Yoga philosophy is reckoned to be part of the non-Vedic system, which also includes the Samkhya school of Hindu philosophy, Jainism and Buddhism: \"[Jainism] does not derive from Brahman-Aryan sources, but reflects the cosmology and anthropology of a much older pre-Aryan upper class of northeastern India [Bihar] – being rooted in the same subsoil of archaic metaphysical speculation as Yoga, Sankhya, and Buddhism, the other non-Vedic Indian systems.\"\n\nThe first use of the root of word \"yoga\" is in hymn 5.81.1 of the Rig Veda, a dedication to rising Sun-god in the morning (Savitri), where it has been interpreted as \"yoke\" or \"yogically control\".\n\nThe earliest evidence of Yogis and Yoga tradition is found in the Keśin hymn 10.136 of the Rigveda, states Karel Werner.\n\nRigveda, however, does not describe yoga and there is little evidence as to what the practices were. Early references to practices that later became part of yoga, are made in Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, the earliest Hindu Upanishad. For example, the practice of pranayama (consciously regulating breath) is mentioned in hymn 1.5.23 of Brihadaranyaka Upanishad (c. 900 BCE), and the practice of pratyahara (concentrating all of one's senses on self) is mentioned in hymn 8.15 of Chandogya Upanishad (c. 800–700 BCE).\n\nAscetic practices (\"tapas\"), concentration and bodily postures used by Vedic priests to conduct yajna (sacrifice), might have been precursors to yoga. \"Vratya\", a group of ascetics mentioned in the \"Atharvaveda\", emphasized on bodily postures which may have evolved into yogic asanas. Early Samhitas also contain references to other group ascetics such as munis, the keśin, and vratyas. Techniques for controlling breath and vital energies are mentioned in the Brahmanas (texts of the Vedic corpus, c. 1000–800 BCE) and the \"Atharvaveda\". Nasadiya Sukta of the \"Rig Veda\" suggests the presence of an early contemplative tradition.\n\nYoga concepts begin to emerge in the texts of c. 500–200 BCE such as the Pali Canon, the middle Upanishads, the \"Bhagavad Gita\" and \"Shanti Parva\" of the \"Mahabharata\".\n\nThe first known appearance of the word \"yoga\", with the same meaning as the modern term, is in the Katha Upanishad, probably composed between the fifth and third century BCE, where it is defined as the steady control of the senses, which along with cessation of mental activity, leading to a supreme state. \"Katha Upanishad\" integrates the monism of early Upanishads with concepts of samkhya and yoga. It defines various levels of existence according to their proximity to the innermost being \"Ātman\". Yoga is therefore seen as a process of interiorization or ascent of consciousness. It is the earliest literary work that highlights the fundamentals of yoga. White states:\nThe hymns in Book 2 of the \"Shvetashvatara Upanishad\", another late first millennium BCE text, states a procedure in which the body is held in upright posture, the breath is restrained and mind is meditatively focussed, preferably inside a cave or a place that is simple, plain, of silence or gently flowing water, with no noises nor harsh winds.\n\nThe \"Maitrayaniya Upanishad\", likely composed in a later century than \"Katha\" and \"Shvetashvatara Upanishads\" but before Patanjali's Yoga Sutra, mentions sixfold yoga method – breath control (\"pranayama\"), introspective withdrawal of senses (\"pratyahara\"), meditation (\"dhyana\"), mind concentration (\"dharana\"), philosophical inquiry/creative reasoning (\"tarka\"), and absorption/intense spiritual union (\"samadhi\").\n\nIn addition to the Yoga discussion in above Principal Upanishads, twenty Yoga Upanishads as well as related texts such as Yoga Vasistha, composed in 1st and 2nd millennium CE, discuss Yoga methods.\n\nYoga is discussed in the ancient foundational Sutras of Hindu philosophy. The \"Vaiśeṣika Sūtra\" of the Vaisheshika school of Hinduism, dated to have been composed sometime between 6th and 2nd century BCE discusses Yoga. According to Johannes Bronkhorst, an Indologist known for his studies on early Buddhism and Hinduism and a professor at the University of Lausanne, \"Vaiśeṣika Sūtra\" describes Yoga as \"a state where the mind resides only in the soul and therefore not in the senses\". This is equivalent to \"pratyahara\" or withdrawal of the senses, and the ancient Sutra asserts that this leads to an absence of \"sukha\" (happiness) and \"dukkha\" (suffering), then describes additional yogic meditation steps in the journey towards the state of spiritual liberation.\n\nSimilarly, \"Brahma sutras\" – the foundational text of the Vedanta school of Hinduism, discusses yoga in its \"sutra\" 2.1.3, 2.1.223 and others. \"Brahma sutras\" are estimated to have been complete in the surviving form sometime between 450 BCE to 200 CE, and its sutras assert that yoga is a means to gain \"subtlety of body\" and other powers. The \"Nyaya sutras\" – the foundational text of the Nyaya school, variously estimated to have been composed between the 6th-century BCE and 2nd-century CE, discusses yoga in sutras 4.2.38–50. This ancient text of the Nyaya school includes a discussion of yogic ethics, dhyana (meditation), samadhi, and among other things remarks that debate and philosophy is a form of yoga.\n\nAlexander the Great reached India in the 4th century BCE. Along with his army, he took Greek academics with him who later wrote memoirs about geography, people and customs they saw. One of Alexander's companion was Onesicritus, quoted in Book 15, Sections 63–65 by Strabo, who describes yogins of India. Onesicritus claims those Indian yogins (\"Mandanis \") practiced aloofness and \"different postures – standing or sitting or lying naked – and motionless\".\n\nOnesicritus also mentions his colleague \"Calanus\" trying to meet them, who is initially denied audience, but later invited because he was sent by a \"king curious of wisdom and philosophy\". Onesicritus and Calanus learn that the yogins consider the best doctrine of life as \"rid the spirit of not only pain, but also pleasure\", that \"man trains the body for toil in order that his opinions may be strengthened\", that \"there is no shame in life on frugal fare\", and that \"the best place to inhabit is one with scantiest equipment or outfit\". These principles are significant to the history of spiritual side of yoga. These may reflect the ancient roots of \"undisturbed calmness\" and \"mindfulness through balance\" in later works of Hindu Patanjali and Buddhist Buddhaghosa respectively, states Charles Rockwell Lanman; as well as the principle of \"Aparigraha\" (non-possessiveness, non-craving, simple living) and asceticism discussed in later Hinduism and Jainism.\n\nWerner states, \"The Buddha was the founder of his [Yoga] system, even though, admittedly, he made use of some of the experiences he had previously gained under various Yoga teachers of his time.\" He notes:\n\nThe chronology of completion of these yoga-related Pali Canons, however, is unclear, just like ancient Hindu texts. Early known Buddhist sources like the \"Majjhima Nikāya\" mention meditation, while the \"Anguttara Nikāya\" describes \"Jhāyins\" (meditators) that resemble early Hindu descriptions of \"Muni\", \"Kesins\" and meditating ascetics, but these meditation-practices are not called yoga in these texts. The earliest known specific discussion of yoga in the Buddhist literature, as understood in modern context, is from the third- to fourth-century CE scriptures of the Buddhist Yogācāra school and fourth- to fifth-century Visuddhimagga of Buddhaghosa.\n\nA yoga system that predated the Buddhist school is Jain yoga. But since Jain sources postdate Buddhist ones, it is difficult to distinguish between the nature of the early Jain school and elements derived from other schools. Most of the other contemporary yoga systems alluded in the Upanishads and some Pali canons are lost to time.\n\nThe early Buddhist texts describe meditative practices and states, some of which the Buddha borrowed from the śramaṇa tradition. The Pali canon contains three passages in which the Buddha describes pressing the tongue against the palate for the purposes of controlling hunger or the mind, depending on the passage. However, there is no mention of the tongue being inserted into the nasopharynx as in true khecarī mudrā. The Buddha used a posture where pressure is put on the perineum with the heel, similar to even modern postures used to stimulate Kundalini.\n\nAlexander Wynne, author of \"The Origin of Buddhist Meditation\", observes that formless meditation and elemental meditation might have originated in the Upanishadic tradition. The earliest reference to meditation is in the \"Brihadaranyaka Upanishad\", one of the oldest Upanishads. \"Chandogya Upanishad\" describes the five kinds of vital energies (\"prana\"). Concepts used later in many yoga traditions such as internal sound and veins (\"nadis\") are also described in the Upanishad. \"Taittiriya Upanishad\" defines yoga as the mastery of body and senses.\n\nThe \"Bhagavad Gita\" ('Song of the Lord'), uses the term \"yoga\" extensively in a variety of ways. In addition to an entire chapter (ch. 6) dedicated to traditional yoga practice, including meditation, it introduces three prominent types of yoga:\n\nThe Gita consists of 18 chapters and 700 \"shlokas\" (verses), with each chapter named as a different yoga, thus delineating eighteen different yogas. Some scholars divide the \"Gita\" into three sections, with the first six chapters with 280 \"shlokas\" dealing with Karma yoga, the middle six containing 209 shlokas with Bhakti yoga, and the last six chapters with 211 shlokas as Jnana yoga; however, this is rough because elements of \"karma\", \"bhakti\" and \"jnana\" are found in all chapters.\n\nDescription of an early form of yoga called \"nirodhayoga\" (yoga of cessation) is contained in the Mokshadharma section of the 12th chapter (\"Shanti Parva\") of the \"Mahabharata\". The verses of the section are dated to c. 300–200 BCE. \"Nirodhayoga\" emphasizes progressive withdrawal from the contents of empirical consciousness such as thoughts, sensations etc. until \"purusha\" (Self) is realized. Terms like \"vichara\" (subtle reflection), \"viveka\" (discrimination) and others which are similar to Patanjali's terminology are mentioned, but not described. There is no uniform goal of yoga mentioned in the \"Mahabharata\". Separation of self from matter, perceiving \"Brahman\" everywhere, entering into \"Brahman\" etc. are all described as goals of yoga. Samkhya and yoga are conflated together and some verses describe them as being identical. Mokshadharma also describes an early practice of elemental meditation.\n\nMahabharata defines the purpose of yoga as the experience of uniting the individual \"ātman\" with the universal Brahman that pervades all things.\n\nThis period witnessed many texts of Buddhism, Hinduism and Jainism discussing and systematically compiling yoga methods and practices. Of these, Patanjali's Yoga Sutras are considered as a key work.\n\nDuring the period between the Mauryan and the Gupta eras (c. 200 BCE–500 CE) philosophical schools of Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism were taking form and a coherent philosophical system of yoga began to emerge.\n\nYoga as a philosophy is mentioned in Sanskrit texts dated to be completed between 200 BCE–200 CE. Kauṭilya's Arthashastra in verse 1.2.10, for example, states that there are three categories of \"anviksikis\" (philosophies) – Samkhya (nontheistic), Yoga (theistic) and Cārvāka (atheistic materialism).\n\nMany traditions in India began to adopt systematic methodology by about first century CE. Of these, Samkhya was probably one of the oldest philosophies to begin taking a systematic form. Patanjali systematized Yoga, building them on the foundational metaphysics of Samkhya. In the early works, the Yoga principles appear together with the Samkhya ideas. Vyasa's commentary on the \"Yoga Sutras\", also called the \"Samkhyapravacanabhasya\" (\"Commentary on the Exposition of the Sankhya Philosophy\"), describes the relation between the two systems. The two schools have some differences as well. Yoga accepted the conception of \"personal god\", while Samkhya developed as a rationalist, non-theistic/atheistic system of Hindu philosophy. Sometimes Patanjali's system is referred to as \"Seshvara Samkhya\" in contradistinction to Kapila's \"Nirivara Samkhya\".\n\nThe parallels between Yoga and Samkhya were so close that Max Müller says that \"the two philosophies were in popular parlance distinguished from each other as Samkhya with and Samkhya without a Lord.\"\n\nIn Hindu philosophy, yoga is the name of one of the six \"orthodox\" (which accept the testimony of Vedas) philosophical schools. Karel Werner, author of \"Yoga And Indian Philosophy\", believes that the process of systematization of yoga which began in the middle and Yoga Upanishads culminated with the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\".\n\nThere are numerous parallels in the concepts in ancient Samkhya, Yoga and Abhidharma Buddhist schools of thought, particularly from 2nd century BCE to 1st century AD, notes Larson. Patanjali's Yoga Sutras is a synthesis of these three traditions. From Samkhya, Yoga Sutras adopt the \"reflective discernment\" (\"adhyavasaya\") of \"prakrti\" and \"purusa\" (dualism), its metaphysical rationalism, as well its three epistemic methods to gaining reliable knowledge. From Abhidharma Buddhism's idea of \"nirodhasamadhi\", suggests Larson, Yoga Sutras adopt the pursuit of altered state of awareness, but unlike Buddhist's concept of no self nor soul, Yoga is physicalist and realist like Samkhya in believing that each individual has a self and soul. The third concept Yoga Sutras synthesize into its philosophy is the ancient ascetic traditions of meditation and introspection, as well as the yoga ideas from middle Upanishads such as Katha, Shvetashvatara and Maitri.\n\nPatanjali's Yoga Sutras are widely regarded as the first compilation of the formal yoga philosophy. The verses of \"Yoga Sutras\" are terse. Many later Indian scholars studied them and published their commentaries, such as the \"Vyasa Bhashya\" (c. 350–450 CE). Patanjali's yoga is also referred to as Raja yoga. Patanjali defines the word \"yoga\" in his second sutra:\n\n\"()\"- \"Yoga Sutras\" 1.2\n\nThis terse definition hinges on the meaning of three Sanskrit terms. I. K. Taimni translates it as \"Yoga is the inhibition (') of the modifications (') of the mind (\"\")\". Swami Vivekananda translates the sutra as \"Yoga is restraining the mind-stuff (\"Citta\") from taking various forms (\"Vrittis\").\" Edwin Bryant explains that, to Patanjali, \"Yoga essentially consists of meditative practices culminating in attaining a state of consciousness free from all modes of active or discursive thought, and of eventually attaining a state where consciousness is unaware of any object external to itself, that is, is only aware of its own nature as consciousness unmixed with any other object.\"\n\nIf the meaning of yoga is understood as the practice of nirodha (mental control), then its goal is \"the unqualified state of \"niruddha\" (the perfection of that process)\", according to Baba Hari Dass. In that context, \"yoga (union) implies duality (as in joining of two things or principles); the result of yoga is the nondual state\", and \"as the union of the lower self and higher Self. The nondual state is characterized by the absence of individuality; it can be described as eternal peace, pure love, Self-realization, or liberation.\"\n\nPatanjali's writing also became the basis for a system referred to as \"Ashtanga Yoga\" (\"Eight-Limbed Yoga\"). This eight-limbed concept is derived from the 29th Sutra of the Book 2 of Yoga Sutras. They are:\n\nYoga and Vedanta are the two largest surviving schools of Hindu traditions. They share many thematic principles, concepts and belief in self/soul, but diverge in degree, style and some of their methods. Epistemologically, Yoga school accepts three means to reliable knowledge, while Advaita Vedanta accepts six ways. Yoga disputes the monism of Advaita Vedanta. Yoga school believes that in the state of moksha, each individual discovers the blissful, liberating sense of himself or herself as an independent identity; Advaita Vedanta, in contrast, believes that in the state of moksha, each individual discovers the blissful, liberating sense of himself or herself as part of Oneness with everything, everyone and the Universal Self. They both hold that the free conscience is aloof yet transcendent, liberated and self-aware. Further, Advaita Vedanta school enjoins the use of Patanjali's yoga practices and the reading of Upanishads for those seeking the supreme good, ultimate freedom and jivanmukti.\n\nThe \"Yoga Yajnavalkya\" is a classical treatise on yoga attributed to the Vedic sage Yajnavalkya. It takes the form of a dialogue between Yajnavalkya and Gargi, a renowned philosopher. The text contains 12 chapters and its origin has been traced to the period between the second century BCE and fourth century CE. Many yoga texts like the \"Hatha Yoga Pradipika\", the \"Yoga Kundalini\" and the \"Yoga Tattva Upanishads\" have borrowed verses from or make frequent references to the \"Yoga Yajnavalkya\". The \"Yoga Yajnavalkya\" discusses eight yoga Asanas – Swastika, Gomukha, Padma, Vira, Simha, Bhadra, Mukta and Mayura, numerous breathing exercises for body cleansing, and meditation.\n\nAccording to \"Tattvarthasutra\", 2nd century CE Jain text, yoga is the sum of all the activities of mind, speech and body. Umasvati calls yoga the cause of \"asrava\" or karmic influx as well as one of the essentials—\"samyak caritra\"—in the path to liberation. In his \"Niyamasara\", Acarya Kundakunda, describes \"yoga bhakti\"—devotion to the path to liberation—as the highest form of devotion. Acarya Haribhadra and Acarya Hemacandra mention the five major vows of ascetics and 12 minor vows of laity under yoga. This has led certain Indologists like Prof. Robert J. Zydenbos to call Jainism, essentially, a system of yogic thinking that grew into a full-fledged religion. The five yamas or the constraints of the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\" bear a resemblance to the five major vows of Jainism, indicating a history of strong cross-fertilization between these traditions.\n\nMainstream Hinduism's influence on Jain yoga can be see in Haribhadra's \"Yogadṛṣṭisamuccaya\" which outlines an eightfold yoga influenced by Patanjali's eightfold yoga.\n\nIn the late phase of Indian antiquity, on the eve of the development of Classical Hinduism, the\nYogacara movement arises during the Gupta period (4th to 5th centuries).\nYogacara received the name as it provided a \"yoga,\" a framework for engaging in the practices that lead to the path of the bodhisattva. The yogacara sect teaches \"yoga\" as a way to reach enlightenment.\n\nMiddle Ages saw the development of many satellite traditions of yoga. Hatha yoga emerged in this period.\n\nThe Bhakti movement was a development in medieval Hinduism which advocated the concept of a personal God (or \"Supreme Personality of Godhead\"). The movement was initiated by the Alvars of South India in the 6th to 9th centuries, and it started gaining influence throughout India by the 12th to 15th centuries. Shaiva and Vaishnava bhakti traditions integrated aspects of \"Yoga Sutras\", such as the practical meditative exercises, with devotion. \"Bhagavata Purana\" elucidates the practice of a form of yoga called \"viraha\" (separation) \"bhakti\". \"Viraha bhakti\" emphasizes one pointed concentration on Krishna.\n\nTantra is a genre of yoga that arose in India no later than the 5th century CE. George Samuel states, \"Tantra\" is a contested term, but may be considered as a school whose practices appeared in mostly complete form in Buddhist and Hindu texts by about 10th century CE. Over its history, some ideas of Tantra school influenced the Hindu, Bon, Buddhist, and Jain traditions. Elements of Tantric yoga rituals were adopted by and influenced state functions in medieval Buddhist and Hindu kingdoms in East and Southeast Asia.\n\nBy the turn of the first millennium, hatha yoga emerged from tantra.\n\nVajrayana is also known as Tantric Buddhism and \"Tantrayāna\". Its texts were compiled starting with 7th century and Tibetan translations were completed in 8th century CE. These tantra yoga texts were the main source of Buddhist knowledge that was imported into Tibet. They were later translated into Chinese and other Asian languages, helping spread ideas of Tantric Buddhism. The Buddhist text Hevajra Tantra and \"Caryāgiti\" introduced hierarchies of chakras. Yoga is a significant practice in Tantric Buddhism.\n\nThe tantra yoga practices include asanas and breathing exercises. The Nyingma tradition practices Yantra yoga (Tib. \"Trul khor\"), a discipline that includes breath work (or pranayama), meditative contemplation and other exercises. In the Nyingma tradition, the path of meditation practice is divided into further stages, such as Kriya yoga, Upa yoga, Yoga yana, Mahā yoga, Anu yoga and Ati yoga. The Sarma traditions also include Kriya, Upa (called \"Charya\"), and Yoga, with the Anuttara yoga class substituting for Mahayoga and Atiyoga.\n\nZen, the name of which derives from the Sanskrit \"dhyāna\" via the Chinese \"ch'an\" is a form of Mahayana Buddhism. Yoga practices integrally exist within the Zen Buddhist school. Certain essential elements of yoga are important both for Buddhism in general and for Zen in particular.\n\nThe earliest references to hatha yoga are in Buddhist works dating from the eighth century. The earliest definition of hatha yoga is found in the 11th century Buddhist text \"Vimalaprabha\", which defines it in relation to the center channel, bindu etc. Hatha yoga synthesizes elements of Patanjali's \"Yoga Sutras\" with posture and breathing exercises. It marks the development of asanas (plural) into the full body 'postures' now in popular usage and, along with its many modern variations, is the style that many people associate with the word \"yoga\" today.\n\nVarious yogic groups had become prominent in Punjab in the 15th and 16th century, when Sikhism was in its nascent stage. Compositions of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, describe many dialogues he had with Jogis, a Hindu community which practiced yoga. Guru Nanak rejected the austerities, rites and rituals connected with Hatha Yoga. He propounded the path of Sahaja yoga or Nama yoga (meditation on \"the name\") instead. The \"Guru Granth Sahib\" states:\n\nYoga came to the attention of an educated western public in the mid-19th century along with other topics of Indian philosophy. In the context of this budding interest, N. C. Paul published his \"Treatise on Yoga Philosophy\" in 1851.\n\nThe first Hindu teacher to actively advocate and disseminate aspects of yoga to a western audience, Swami Vivekananda, toured Europe and the United States in the 1890s. The reception which Swami Vivekananda received built on the active interest of intellectuals, in particular the New England Transcendentalists, among them Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803–1882), who drew on German Romanticism and the interest of philosophers and scholars like G. W. F. Hegel (1770–1831), the brothers August Wilhelm Schlegel (1767–1845) and Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel (1772–1829), Max Mueller (1823–1900), Arthur Schopenhauer (1788–1860), and others who had (to varying degrees) interests in things Indian.\n\nTheosophists also had a large influence on the American public's view of Yoga. Esoteric views current at the end of the 19th century provided a further basis for the reception of Vedanta and of Yoga with its theory and practice of correspondence between the spiritual and the physical. The reception of Yoga and of Vedanta thus entwined with each other and with the (mostly Neoplatonism-based) currents of religious and philosophical reform and transformation throughout the 19th and early 20th centuries. M. Eliade, himself rooted in the Romanian currents of these traditions, brought a new element into the reception of Yoga with the strong emphasis on Tantric Yoga in his seminal book: \"Yoga: Immortality and Freedom\". With the introduction of the Tantra traditions and philosophy of Yoga, the conception of the \"transcendent\" to be attained by Yogic practice shifted from experiencing the \"transcendent\" (\"Atman-Brahman\" in Advaitic theory) in the mind to the body itself.\n\nThe American born yogi by the name of Pierre Arnold Bernard, after his travels through the lands of Kashmir and Bengal, founded the Tantrik Order of America in 1905. His teachings gave many westerners their first glimpse into the practices of yoga and tantra.\n\nThe modern scientific study of yoga began with the works of N. C. Paul and Major D. Basu in the late 19th century, and then continued in the 20th century with Shri Yogendra (1897–1989) and Swami Kuvalayananda. Western medical researchers came to Swami Kuvalayananda's Kaivalyadhama Health and Yoga Research Center, starting in 1928, to study Yoga as a science.\n\nOutside of Buddhist, Hindu and Jain traditions in Asia, the term \"yoga\" has been usually synonymous with its asanas (postures) or as a form of exercise. This aspect of Yoga was adopted as a cultural trend in Europe and North America starting in the first half of the 20th century. There were periods of criticism and paranoia against yoga as well. By the 1960s, western interest in Hindu spirituality reached its peak, giving rise to a great number of Neo-Hindu schools specifically advocated to a western public. During this period, most of the influential Indian teachers of yoga came from two lineages, those of Sivananda Saraswati (1887–1963) and of Tirumalai Krishnamacharya (1888–1989). Teachers of Hatha yoga who were active in the west in this period included B.K.S. Iyengar (1918–2014), K. Pattabhi Jois (1915–2009), Swami Vishnu-devananda (1927–1993), and Swami Satchidananda (1914–2002). Yogi Bhajan brought Kundalini Yoga to the United States in 1969. Comprehensive, classical teachings of Ashtanga Yoga, Samkhya, the subtle body theory, Fitness Asanas, and tantric elements were included in the yoga teachers training by Baba Hari Dass (1923–), in the United States and Canada.\n\nA second \"yoga boom\" followed in the 1980s, as Dean Ornish, a follower of Swami Satchidananda, connected yoga to heart health, legitimizing yoga as a purely physical system of health exercises outside of counter-culture or esotericism circles, and unconnected to any religious denomination. Numerous asanas seemed modern in origin, and strongly overlapped with 19th and early-20th century Western exercise traditions.\nSince 2001, the popularity of yoga in the USA has expanded. The number of people who practiced some form of yoga has grown from 4 million (in 2001) to 20 million (in 2011). It has drawn support from world leaders such as Barack Obama who stated, \"Yoga has become a universal language of spiritual exercise in the United States, crossing many lines of religion and cultures... Every day, millions of people practice yoga to improve their health and overall well-being. That's why we're encouraging everyone to take part in PALA (Presidential Active Lifestyle Award), so show your support for yoga and answer the challenge\".\n\nThe American College of Sports Medicine supports the integration of yoga into the exercise regimens of healthy individuals as long as properly-trained professionals deliver instruction. The College cites yoga's promotion of \"profound mental, physical and spiritual awareness\" and its benefits as a form of stretching, and as an enhancer of breath control and of core strength.\n\nYoga has been studied and may be recommended to promote relaxation, reduce stress and improve some medical conditions such as premenstrual syndrome. Yoga is considered to be a low-impact activity that can provide the same benefits as \"any well-designed exercise program, increasing general health and stamina, reducing stress, and improving those conditions brought about by sedentary lifestyles\". It is particularly promoted as a physical therapy routine, and as a regimen to strengthen and balance all parts of the body.\n\nYoga may improve psychological health during cancer treatment, although more evidence is needed to confirm this possible benefit. Other research indicated that yoga could be useful in addition to other treatments in schizophrenia, and may have positive effects on mental health, although the quality of research to define these effects is low.\n\nIn 2015 the Australian Government's Department of Health published the results of a review of alternative therapies that sought to determine if any were suitable for being covered by health insurance. Yoga was one of 17 practices evaluated for which no clear evidence of effectiveness was found. Accordingly, In 2017 the Australian government named yoga as a practice that would not qualify for insurance subsidy, saying this step would \"ensure taxpayer funds are expended appropriately and not directed to therapies lacking evidence\".\n\nWhile some of the medical community regards the results of yoga research as significant, others point to many flaws which undermine results. Much of the research on yoga has taken the form of preliminary studies or clinical trials of low methodological quality, including small sample sizes, inadequate blinding, lack of randomization, and high risk of bias. A 2013 review described the effectiveness of yoga for low back pain in the short-term, and moderate evidence that it was effective in the long-term. Another study found an incidence of back injuries from yoga.\n\nSome clinicians have reported studies investigating yoga as a complementary intervention for cancer patients to decrease depression, insomnia, pain, and fatigue and to increase anxiety control. Others have questioned the quality of research and uncertainty in proving this effect.\n\nA 2016 systematic review and meta-analysis found no evidence that yoga was effective for metabolic syndrome.\n\nSome yoga practitioners suffer physical injuries analogous to sports injuries. A survey of yoga practitioners in Australia showed that about 20% had suffered some physical injury while practicing yoga. In the previous 12 months 4.6% of the respondents had suffered an injury producing prolonged pain or requiring medical treatment. Headstands, shoulder stands, lotus and half lotus (seated cross-legged position), forward bends, backward bends, and handstands produced the greatest number of injuries.\n\nAmong the main reasons that experts cite for causing negative effects from yoga are beginners' competitiveness and instructors' lack of qualification. As the demand for yoga classes grows, many people get certified to become yoga instructors, often with relatively little training. Not every newly certified instructor can evaluate the condition of every new trainee in their class and recommend refraining from doing certain poses or using appropriate props to avoid injuries. In turn, a beginning yoga student can overestimate the abilities of their body and strive to do advanced poses before their body is flexible or strong enough to perform them.\n\nVertebral artery dissection, a tear in the arteries in the neck which provide blood to the brain can result from rotation of the neck while the neck is extended. This can occur in a variety of contexts, but is an event which could occur in some yoga practices. This is a very serious condition which can result in a stroke.\n\nAcetabular labral tears, damage to the structure joining the femur and the hip, have been reported to have resulted from yoga practice.\n\nIt is claimed that yoga can be an excellent training for children and adolescents, both as a form of physical exercise and for breathing, focus, mindfulness, and stress relief: many school districts have considered incorporating yoga into their Physical Education programs. The Encinitas, California school district gained a San Diego Superior Court Judge's approval to use yoga in Physical Education, holding against the parents who claimed the practice was intrinsically religious and hence should not be part of a state funded program.\n\nSome Christians integrate yoga and other aspects of Eastern spirituality with prayer and meditation. This has been attributed to a desire to experience God in a more complete way. In 2013, Monsignor Raffaello Martinelli, servicing Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, having worked for over 23 years with Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger (Pope Benedict XVI), said that for his Meditation, a Christian can learn from other religious traditions (zen, yoga, controlled respiration, Mantra), quoting Aspects of Christian meditation: \"Just as \"the Catholic Church rejects nothing of what is true and holy in these religions,\" neither should these ways be rejected out of hand simply because they are not Christian. On the contrary, one can take from them what is useful so long as the Christian conception of prayer, its logic and requirements are never obscured. It is within the context of all of this that these bits and pieces should be taken up and expressed anew.\" Previously, the Roman Catholic Church, and some other Christian organizations have expressed concerns and disapproval with respect to some eastern and New Age practices that include yoga and meditation.\n\nIn 1989 and 2003, the Vatican issued two documents: \"Aspects of Christian meditation\" and \"A Christian reflection on the New Age,\" that were mostly critical of eastern and New Age practices. The 2003 document was published as a 90-page handbook detailing the Vatican's position. The Vatican warned that concentration on the physical aspects of meditation \"can degenerate into a cult of the body\" and that equating bodily states with mysticism \"could also lead to psychic disturbance and, at times, to moral deviations.\" Such has been compared to the early days of Christianity, when the church opposed the gnostics' belief that salvation came not through faith but through a mystical inner knowledge. The letter also says, \"one can see if and how [prayer] might be enriched by meditation methods developed in other religions and cultures\" but maintains the idea that \"there must be some fit between the nature of [other approaches to] prayer and Christian beliefs about ultimate reality.\" Some fundamentalist Christian organizations consider yoga to be incompatible with their religious background, considering it a part of the New Age movement inconsistent with Christianity.\n\nAnother view holds that Christian meditation can lead to religious pluralism. This is held by an interdenominational association of Christians that practice it. \"The ritual simultaneously operates as an anchor that maintains, enhances, and promotes denominational activity and a sail that allows institutional boundaries to be crossed.\" \n\nIn early 11th century, the Persian scholar Al Biruni visited India, lived with Hindus for 16 years, and with their help translated several significant Sanskrit works into Arabic and Persian languages. One of these was Patanjali's Yogasutras. Al Biruni's translation preserved many of the core themes of Patañjali 's Yoga philosophy, but certain sutras and analytical commentaries were restated making it more consistent with Islamic monotheistic theology. Al Biruni's version of Yoga Sutras reached Persia and Arabian peninsula by about 1050 AD. Later, in the 16th century, the hath yoga text \"Amritakunda\" was translated into Arabic and then Persian. Yoga was, however, not accepted by mainstream Sunni and Shia Islam. Minority Islamic sects such as the mystic Sufi movement, particularly in South Asia, adopted Indian yoga practises, including postures and breath control. Muhammad Ghawth, a Shattari Sufi and one of the translators of yoga text in 16th century, drew controversy for his interest in yoga and was persecuted for his Sufi beliefs.\n\nMalaysia's top Islamic body in 2008 passed a fatwa, prohibiting Muslims from practicing yoga, saying it had elements of Hinduism and that its practice was blasphemy, therefore haraam. Some Muslims in Malaysia who had been practicing yoga for years, criticized the decision as \"insulting.\" Sisters in Islam, a women's rights group in Malaysia, also expressed disappointment and said yoga was just a form of exercise. This fatwa is legally enforceable. However, Malaysia's prime minister clarified that yoga as physical exercise is permissible, but the chanting of religious mantras is prohibited.\n\nIn 2009, the Council of Ulemas, an Islamic body in Indonesia, passed a fatwa banning yoga on the grounds that it contains Hindu elements. These fatwas have, in turn, been criticized by Darul Uloom Deoband, a Deobandi Islamic seminary in India. Similar fatwas banning yoga, for its link to Hinduism, were issued by the Grand Mufti Ali Gomaa in Egypt in 2004, and by Islamic clerics in Singapore earlier.\n\nIn Iran, as of May 2014, according to its Yoga Association, there were approximately 200 yoga centres in the country, a quarter of them in the capital Tehran, where groups can often be seen practising in parks. This has been met by opposition among conservatives. In May 2009, Turkey's head of the Directorate of Religious Affairs, Ali Bardakoğlu, discounted personal development techniques such as reiki and yoga as commercial ventures that could lead to extremism. His comments were made in the context of reiki and yoga possibly being a form of proselytization at the expense of Islam.\n\nOn 11 December 2014, the United Nations General Assembly approved a resolution establishing 21 June as \"International Day of Yoga\", following the call for its adoption by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his address to UN General Assembly on 27 September 2014. In suggesting one of the two solstices, Modi noted that it is the longest day of the year in the Northern Hemisphere and that it has special significance in many parts of the world.\n\nThe first International Day of Yoga was observed worldwide on 21 June 2015. About 35,000 people, including Modi and many dignitaries, performed 21 yoga asanas for 35 minutes at Rajpath in New Delhi. The day devoted to yoga was observed by millions across the world. The event at Rajpath established two Guinness records – largest Yoga Class with 35,985 people and the record for the most nationalities participating in it—84.\n\n\n\n"}
