{"id": "4767538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4767538", "title": "April Jazz", "text": "April Jazz\n\nApril Jazz is an annual jazz music festival held in Tapiola, Espoo, Finland at the end of April. It has been held annually since 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "41382352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41382352", "title": "Aymeric Chauprade", "text": "Aymeric Chauprade\n\nAymeric Chauprade (born 13 January 1969), is a French writer, political scientist and politician for the independent right wing. He left the National Front on 9 November 2015, mostly for \"moral and political\" principles, to found Les Français Libres. A student and disciple of François Thual, he is an advocate of realpolitik. He was elected to the European Parliament from the National Front for the Île-de-France constituency in the 2014 European Parliament election.\n\nGraduating from the Paris Institute of Political Studies in 1993, Chauprade received a Master of International Law degree in 1996 and a doctorate in political science in 2001 from Paris Descartes University. Trained in mathematics, he is a lecturer in geopolitics at the Royal College of Higher Military Education of the Kingdom of Morocco, director of the \"Revue française de géopolitique\" (\"French Review of Geopolitics\") and editor of several collections published by Ellipses in Paris (\"Grands enjeux\", \"Taupe-Niveau\" and \"Référence géopolitique\"). From 2003 to 2009, Chauprade was a lecturer on the history of political ideas at the University of Neuchâtel in Switzerland. He has taught at the Collège interarmées de défense (CID: French Joint Defense College) since 1999, where he oversees geopolitics courses.\n\nChauprade is a contributor to African historian Bernard Lugan's magazine, \"L'Afrique réelle\" (Real Africa), works for Dominique Venner's \"La Nouvelle Revue d'Histoire\". He dedicated his book, \"Géopolitique, constantes et changements dans l'histoire\" (\"Geopolitics, Constants and Changes in History\") to the students at CID. Chauprade is an officer in the French Naval Reserve.\n\nAfter the publication of his book, \"Chronique du choc des civilisations\" (\"Chronicle of the Clash of Civilizations\" reedited in 2015), Chauprade was accused by French journalist Jean Guisnel of espousing September 11 conspiracy theories. He was always fighting against those allegations which he found false. Chauprade was removed from his chair at the CID by Supervising Minister Hervé Morin in early February 2009.\n\nDuring the controversy, Chauprade (who filed a complaint against the Minister and the magazine \"Le Point\") received support from CID students and his former university professor Edmond Jouve. Although CID head Vincent Desportes expressed reservations about Chauprade's writings, Desportes said: \"He has never proselytized in his courses or expressed his vision of the world\".\n\nA website supporting Chauprade was set up. On 24 March 2009 the Paris Administrative Court ruled in his favour, suspending Morin's decision and saying that the minister had violated a \"fundamental freedom\". On 1 June 2011 the court upheld its ruling, saying that Morin's decision resulted \"from an irregular procedure\".\n\nChauprade organized a conference with Jacques Frémeaux and Philippe Evanno in February 2013 at the Sorbonne (University of Paris IV) on threats in North Africa and the Sahel and Europe's overall security (\"Menaces en Afrique du Nord et au Sahel et sécurité globale de l'Europe\"), the proceedings of which were published in April 2013 by Ellipses Editions. Since January 2010, he has funded a geopolitical website. He is recognized as one of 100 most important international authors in geopolitics and International relations(\"Les grands théoriciens des relations intérnationales\" 2015, Studyrama).\n\nAccording to Chauprade, he follows a new French geopolitical school emphasizing \"realpolitik\" and deemphasizing ideology. Its ideas appear in the \"Revue française de géopolitique\" (\"French Review of Geopolitics\") and the International Academy of Geopolitics, of which Chauprade is secretary-general.\nHis geopolitical philosophy follows that of François Thual, and can be found in the introduction to \"Géopolitique, constantes et changements dans l'histoire\".\n\nChauprade considers Francophonie a cornerstone of French independence and power. A strong supporter of a Europe of nations within European borders (without Turkey), he advocates a political agreement with Russia and supports a multi-polar world with a balanced relationship between China and the United States. Chauprade maintains strong relations with Morocco (where he teaches), and travels regularly to the Middle East, Central Europe, Central Asia, Russia and China.\n\nAccording to Jean-Marc Huissoud, Chauprade is considered a founder of the new French geopolitics, describing the \"continuous and discontinuous\" in his analysis of international questions. Chauprade has said, \"France is at war against some Muslims, not at war with the Muslims but with some Muslims\". In his interview for ITélé he said that France is better than a race, it's a civilization. Chauprade defends Judeo-Christian roots of Europe.\n\nChauprade supported the list headed by Philippe de Villiers in the 2004 European Parliament election.\nChauprade should be the National Front's top candidate in the Île-de-France district for the 2014 European elections and Le Pen's advisor on foreign-policy issues.\n\nIn an interview with the French bi-monthly magazine \"L'Homme nouveau\" on 27 November 2013, he said that the \"ideological bipolarity\" separating the world is no longer the one opposing liberalism and communism (which are \"two materialisms\") but the one opposing \"materialism and traditionalism\": \"On one side are those who believe that the individual is the supreme value, on the other are those who think that transcendence or the common good are superior to the human person\". Chauprade's \"commitment is clearly in the second camp,\" and he intends \"to participate in a project that not only raises the issue of identity in France, but also raises the problem of materialism and rehabilitates transcendence in politics\".\n\nChauprade defends the multipolar vision of politics which includes peaceful relations with Russia and the USA. He travelled to Crimea to \"monitor\" the Crimean status referendum, having been invited by the far-right Eurasian Observatory for Democracy & Elections (EODE) according to La Liberation, He was personnally commenting the events live on Russia Today on March 16.\n\nIn his ITélé interview of 9 November 2015 Chauprade appealed for the return of Philippe de Villiers and showed a strong desire of work by his side.\n\nNovember 9, 2015 – He announces his quitting the National Front due to “moral and ideological issues”. As some other members, he deplores the influence of Florian Philippot on Marine Le Pen and on the party’s political path. He also stated that Alain Soral’s (anti-Semitic ) influence on a part of the party is one of the main reasons that made him quit the National Front. He stands for a right wing re-composition.\nOn her side, Marine Le Pen claims that “after the Air Cocaine gate, our disagreements with Aymeric Chauprade became too important for him to stay at the National Front”.\nAt the European parliament he quits the Europe of Nations and Freedom group (ENL), which he joined at its creation. He is since an independent MEP.\nIn January 13, 2016 he announces the creation of his own party, Les Francais Libres, with the purpose of “unifying a credible and assumed right wing”. He refused to make a choice during 2017’s French presidential election between “globalised socialism and a nationalist socialism”. \nApril 2016 – he admits being closer to Les Republicains and wishes to “take part in an eventual government from the right wing”, without taking part in the election of Les Républicains’ candidate to run for office. At the European Parliament he tried to join the French delegation of the European Popular Party – Valeurs actuelles states that “even benefiting from Michele Alliot-Marie’s, Nadine Morano’s and Brice Hortefeux’s support, he faces oppositions from juppeists”.\nDuring the election of Les Républicains’ candidate to run for office, he supported Nicolas Zarkozy for the first-round ballot and Francois Fillon for the second-round ballot.\nDuring French 2017’s presidential election he supported Francois Fillon for the first-round ballot before supporting Emmanuel Macron due to the elimination of the first one.\nMarch 16, 2017, he expresses himself for one of the first times about the “shadow men” around the National Front presidency, in an Envoyé Special documentary. According to him “Marine Le Pen is not free, she is held by those people (Frédéric Chatillon, Axel Loustau et Philippe Péninque). If she comes to power, those people will too. There is no reason for this group to disappear. It will become the group that brought her to power. It is the National Front economy. They are Marine Le Pen’s secret ».\nWhen Emmanuel Macron visited the European Parliament on 17 April 2018, Aymeric Chauprade congratulated him on his courage to initiate reforms. He joined the Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy (EFDD) group, where he became vice-president. It is a sovereignist sensitivity group that includes the Italian 5 Star Movement and the English UKIP.\n\nOn March 20, 2013, two French passengers are arrested at the Punta Cana airport in the Dominican Republic while they were about to take off with suitcases filled with cocaine. The flight was registered as a commercial one and the baggage were checked by the airport security. According to the Civil Aviation Code the crew is not responsible for luggage content. Despite this, the two pilots of the Falcon were arrested with no distinction being made between them and the passengers by the Dominican police.\n\nRapidly, a support committee is formed by Air France pilots and former French air force pilots. Bruno Odos and Pascal Forret being both former French Air Force pilots, one of them was even part of the French strategic nuclear task.\n\nAutumn 2014 – The MEP Aymeric Chauprade joins the supporting committee on Christophe Naudin’s (Airport Security expert and Criminologist) demand.\n\nMay 15, 2015 – Aymeric Chauprade posts a video denouncing a justice denial made by the Dominican Republic. During one year and a half, the four Frenchmen without any distinction, have seen their trial reported (more than 30 times ) and had no way to defend themselves.\n\nAugust 2015 – At the end of the trial, the 30 Dominican defendants were acquitted, while the 4 Frenchmen were declared guilty and sentenced to 20 years of prison. At the end of the trial, the pilots appealed and remained free under surveillance. During October they were extracted.\n\nThe role played by Aymeric Chauprade in this operation remains blurry. Did he facilitate it by his presence in the Dominican Republic at the time the exfiltration took place? \n\nAfter the success of the extraction of the two pilots, the Dominican authorities blamed Aymeric Chauprade and many others without having any evidence.\nThree international arrest warrants are issued by the Dominican Republic against Christophe Naudin, Aymeric Chauprade and Pierre Malinowski \nBeing unable to present any criminal charge, the Dominican Republic fabricated charges against them – “People smuggling and trafficking in human beings”.\n\nIn June 2018, Aymeric Chauprade had been informed by Interpol that he did not have an investigation opened against him following the exfiltration of two French pilots from the Dominican Republic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13230006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13230006", "title": "Ayu Islands", "text": "Ayu Islands\n\nThe Ayu Islands (Kepulauan Ayu), are a small archipelago south of the Asia Islands and north of Raja Ampat Islands in Indonesia. This group is formed by two coral atolls. The highest point is 106 m.\n\nIn older maps these islands appear as the Ajoe Islands, following the Dutch spelling \"Ajoe-eilanden\".\n\nThe beaches of these islands are a breeding ground for the leatherback turtle \"(Dermochelys coriacea)\". The waters off the Ayu Islands are a good snorkeling and scuba diving site.\n\nAdministratively the Ayu Islands belong to the Indonesian province of West Papua.\n"}
{"id": "4124360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4124360", "title": "Baltic Sea Trade Union Network", "text": "Baltic Sea Trade Union Network\n\nThe Baltic Sea Trade Union Network (BASTUN) is a of 22 organizations with 20 million members from the Baltic Sea region.\n\nIt was founded in 1999.\n\nMember countries include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4407459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4407459", "title": "Bangladesh Free Trade Union Congress", "text": "Bangladesh Free Trade Union Congress\n\nThe Bangladesh Free Trade Union Congress (BFTUC) in a national federation of trade unions in Bangladesh. It was established in 1983.\n"}
{"id": "4243247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4243247", "title": "Bega Canal", "text": "Bega Canal\n\nThe Bega Canal or Begej Canal () is a navigation canal of Romania and Serbia. It is the first navigation canal built on the present-day territory of Romania, and serves the city of Timișoara. Its name comes from the Bega river. It crosses the territory of Timiș County in western Romania and proceeds into the territory of Serbia, merging with Begej river near the village of Klek.\n\nDuring the 18th-19th centuries it was the main means of transporting goods in the area as it connected the town to the European capitals: Budapest and Vienna. Nowadays it is used for amusement and sports.\n"}
{"id": "52480538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52480538", "title": "Better On My Own", "text": "Better On My Own\n\n\"Better On My Own\" is a song recorded by Finnish singer Krista Siegfrids. The song was released as a digital download in Finland on 14 August 2015. The song peaked at number 24 on the Finnish Download Chart and number 74 on the Finnish Airplay Chart.\n\nA music video to accompany the release of \"Better On My Own\" was first released onto YouTube on 14 August 2015 at a total length of three minutes and forty-six seconds.\n"}
{"id": "34879097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34879097", "title": "Black Death Jewish persecutions", "text": "Black Death Jewish persecutions\n\nThe Black Death persecutions and massacres were a series of violent attacks on Jewish communities blamed for an outbreak of the Black Death in Europe from 1348 to 1351.\n\nChristians despised Jews for their lack of conviction in Jesus Christ. The official church policy was to protect Jews because Jesus was born into the Jewish race. But in reality Jews were targets of Christian loathing. As the plague swept across Europe in the mid-14th century, annihilating nearly half the population, Jews were taken as scapegoats, likely because they were affected less than other people. Accusations spread that Jews had caused the disease by deliberately poisoning wells.\n\nThe first massacres directly related to the plague took place in April 1348 in Toulon, France, where the Jewish quarter was sacked, and forty Jews were murdered in their homes, then in Barcelona. In 1349, massacres and persecution spread across Europe, including the Erfurt massacre (1349), the Basel massacre, massacres in Aragon, and Flanders. 2000 Jews were burnt alive on 14 February 1349 in the \"Valentine's Day\" Strasbourg massacre, where the plague had not yet affected the city. While the ashes smouldered, Christian residents of Strasbourg sifted through and collected the valuable possessions of Jews not burnt by the fires. Many hundreds of Jewish communities were destroyed in this period. Within the 510 Jewish communities destroyed in this period, some members killed themselves to avoid the persecutions. In the spring of 1349 the Jewish community in Frankfurth-am-Main was annihilated. This was followed by the destruction of Jewish communities in Mainz and Cologne. The 3000 strong Jewish population of Mainz initially defended themselves and managed to hold off the Christian attackers. But the Christians managed to overwhelm the Jewish ghetto in the end and killed all of its Jews.\n\nAt Speyer, Jewish corpses were disposed in wine casks and cast into the Rhine. By the close of 1349 the worst of the pogroms had ended in Rhineland. But around this time the massacres of Jews started rising near the Hansa townships of the Baltic Coast and in Eastern Europe. By 1351 there had been 350 incidents of anti-Jewish pogroms and 60 major and 150 minor Jewish communities had been exterminated. All of this caused the eastward movement of Northern Europe's Jewry to Poland and Russia, where they remained for the next six centuries. King Casimir of Poland enthusiastically gave refuge and protection to the Jews. The motives for this action is unclear. The king was well disposed to Jews and had a Jewish mistress. He was also interested in tapping the economic potential of the Jewry.\n\nThere are many possible reasons why Jews were accused to be the cause for the plague. One reason was because there was a general sense of anti-Semitism in the 14th century. Jews were also isolated in the ghettos, which meant in some places that Jews were less affected. Additionally, there are many Jewish laws that promote cleanliness: a Jew must wash his or her hands before eating bread and after using the bathroom, it was customary for Jews to bathe once a week before the Sabbath, a corpse must be washed before burial, and so on.\n\nIn many cities the civil authorities either did little to protect the Jewish communities or actually abetted the rioters. Pope Clement VI (the French born Benedictine, Pierre Roger) tried to protect the Jewish communities by two papal bulls (the first on July 6, 1348 and another 26 September 1348) saying that those who blamed the plague on the Jews had been \"seduced by that liar, the Devil\" and urging clergy to protect the Jews. In this, Clement was aided by the researches of his personal physician Guy de Chauliac who argued from his own treatment of the infected that the Jews were not to blame. Clement's efforts were in part undone by the newly elected Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor making property of Jews killed in riots forfeit, giving local authorities a financial incentive to turn a blind eye.\n\nAs the plague waned in 1350, so did the violence against Jewish communities. In 1351, the plague and the immediate persecution was over, though the background level of persecution and discrimination remained. Ziegler (1998) comments that \"there was nothing unique about the massacres\". 20 years after the Black Death the Brussels massacre (1370) wiped out the Belgian Jewish community.\n\nThough told for nearly 350 years, there were no written accounts of the Black Death through Jewish tales until 1696, by Yiftah Yosef ben Naftali Hirts Segal Manzpach in the Mayse Nissim. Yuzpa Shammes, as he frequently was referred to, was a scribe and shammash of the Worms community for several decades. His accounts intend to show that the Jews were not idle but that they took action against inevitably becoming the scapegoat. Despite Yuzpa's assertion that the Jews fought against the massacres, there are contradicting accounts that claim that there was no evidence of \"armed resistance\". These contradicting tales display the effect of oral tradition being manipulated to fit certain circumstances.\n\n\"Ordinary folk hated the Jews because they had served the merchants and aristocrats, and with their loans and with their capital, helped establish urban economy and the city's governing political and territorial independence. Further, the Jews had exploited artisans 'with loans at usurious rates'.\" These reasons gave the \"ordinary folk\" the motive to kill the Jews because they were gaining political and social standings. Breuer also included that \"others ... saw the massacres as the revenge of impoverished debtors against privileged elite of Jewish creditors.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "21490998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21490998", "title": "Burundi", "text": "Burundi\n\nBurundi (, ), officially the Republic of Burundi (, ; , or ), is a landlocked country in the African Great Lakes region of East Africa, bordered by Rwanda to the north, Tanzania to the east and south, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the west. It is also considered part of Central Africa. Burundi's capital is Bujumbura. The southwestern border is adjacent to Lake Tanganyika.\n\nThe Twa, Hutu and Tutsi peoples have lived in Burundi for at least 500 years. For more than 200 of those years, Burundi was an independent kingdom, until the beginning of the 20th century, when Germany colonised the region. After the First World War and Germany's defeat, it ceded the territory to Belgium. Both Germans and Belgians ruled Burundi and Rwanda as a European colony known as Ruanda-Urundi. Despite common misconceptions, Burundi and Rwanda had never been under common rule until the time of European colonisation.\n\nBurundi gained independence in 1962 and initially had a monarchy, but a series of assassinations, coups and a general climate of regional instability culminated in the establishment of a republic and one-party state in 1966. Bouts of ethnic cleansing and ultimately two civil wars and genocides during the 1970s and again in the 1990s left the country undeveloped and its population as one of the world's poorest. 2015 witnessed large-scale political strife as President Pierre Nkurunziza opted to run for a third term in office, a coup attempt failed and the country's parliamentary and presidential elections were broadly criticised by members of the international community.\n\nThe sovereign state of Burundi political system is that of a presidential representative democratic republic based upon a multi-party state. The President of Burundi is the head of state and head of government. There are currently 21 registered parties in Burundi. On 13 March 1992, Tutsi coup leader Pierre Buyoya established a constitution, which provided for a multi-party political process and reflected multi-party competition. Six years later, on 6 June 1998, the constitution was changed, broadening National Assembly's seats and making provisions for two vice-presidents. Because of the Arusha Accord, Burundi enacted a transitional government in 2000. In October 2016, Burundi informed the UN of its intention to withdraw from the International Criminal Court.\n\nBurundi remains an overwhelmingly rural society, with just 13% of the population living in urban areas in 2013. The population density of around 315 people per square kilometre (753 per sq mi) is the second highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. Roughly 85% of the population are of Hutu ethnic origin, 15% are Tutsi, and fewer than 1% are indigenous Twa. The official languages of Burundi are Kirundi, French and English, Kirundi being recognised officially as the sole national language.\n\nOne of the smallest countries in Africa, Burundi has an equatorial climate. Burundi is a part of the Albertine Rift, the western extension of the East African Rift. The country lies on a rolling plateau in the centre of Africa. The highest peak, Mount Heha at , lies to the southeast of the capital, Bujumbura. The most distant source of the River Nile is the Ruvyironza River in the Bururi Province of Burundi, the Nile is linked from Lake Victoria to its headwaters via the Kagera River to the Ruvyironza River. Another major lake is Lake Tanganyika, located in much of Burundi's southwestern corner. There are two national parks, Kibira National Park to the northwest (a small region of rain forest, adjacent to Nyungwe Forest National Park in Rwanda), and Ruvubu National Park to the northeast (along the Rurubu River, also known as Ruvubu or Ruvuvu). Both were established in 1982 to conserve wildlife populations. Burundi's lands are mostly agricultural or pasture.\n\nSettlement by rural populations has led to deforestation, soil erosion and habitat loss. Deforestation of the entire country is almost completely due to overpopulation, with a mere remaining and an ongoing loss of about 9% per annum. In addition to poverty, Burundians often have to deal with corruption, weak infrastructure, poor access to health and education services, and hunger. Burundi is densely populated and has had substantial emigration as young people seek opportunities elsewhere. The World Happiness Report 2018 ranked Burundi as the world's least happy nation with a rank of 156.\n\nBurundi is one of the few countries in Africa, along with its neighbour Rwanda among others (such as Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland), to be a direct territorial continuation of a pre-colonial era African state. The early history of Burundi, and especially the role and nature of the country's three dominant ethnic groups; the Twa, Hutu and Tutsi, is highly debated amongst academics. However, it is important to note that the nature of culture and ethnic groups is always fluid and changing. While the groups might have migrated to the area at different times and as distinctly different ethnic groups, the current distinctions are contemporary socio-cultural constructs. Initially the different ethnic groups lived together in relative peace. The first conflicts between ethnic groups can be dated back to the 17th century, when land was becoming ever more scarce because of the continuous growth in population.\n\nThe first evidence of the Burundian state dates back to the late 16th century where it emerged on the eastern foothills. Over the following centuries it expanded, annexing smaller neighbours.\nThe Kingdom of Burundi, or Urundi, in the Great Lakes region was a polity ruled by a traditional monarch with several princes beneath him; succession struggles were common. The king, known as the mwami (translated as ruler) headed a princely aristocracy (ganwa) which owned most of the land and required a tribute, or tax, from local farmers (mainly Hutu) and herders (mainly Tutsi). The Kingdom of Burundi was characterized by a hierarchical political authority and tributary economic exchange.\n\nIn the mid-18th century, the Tutsi royalty consolidated authority over land, production, and distribution with the development of the ubugabire—a patron-client relationship in which the populace received royal protection in exchange for tribute and land tenure. By this time, the royal court was made up of the Tutsi-Banyaruguru, they had higher social status than other pastoralists such as the Tutsi-Hima. In the lower levels of this society were generally Hutu people, and at the very bottom of the pyramid were the Twa. The system had some fluidity however, some Hutu people belonged to the nobility and in this way also had a say in the functioning of the state.\n\nThe classification of Hutu or Tutsi was not merely based on ethnic criteria alone. Hutu farmers that managed to acquire wealth and livestock were regularly granted the higher social status of Tutsi, some even made it to become close advisors of the Ganwa. On the other hand, there are also reports of Tutsi that lost all their cattle and subsequently lost their higher status and were called Hutu. Thus, the distinction between Hutu and Tutsi was also a socio-cultural concept, instead of a purely ethnic one. There were also many reports of marriages between Hutu and Tutsi people. In general, regional ties and tribal power struggles played a far more determining role in Burundi's politics than ethnicity.\n\nBurundi ceased to be a monarchy when king Ntare V Ndizeye was deposed by his Prime Minister and Chief of Staff, Capt. Michel Micombero, who abolished the monarchy and declared a republic following the November 1966 coup d'état.\n\nFrom 1884, the German East Africa Company was active in the African Great Lakes region. As a result of heightened tensions and border disputes between the German East Africa Company, the British Empire and the Sultanate of Zanzibar, the German Empire was called upon to put down the Abushiri revolts and protect the empire's interests in the region. The German East Africa Company transferred its rights to the German Empire in 1891, in this way establishing the German colony of German East Africa, which included Burundi, Rwanda, and the mainland part of Tanzania (formerly known as Tanganyika). The German Empire stationed armed forces in Ruanda and Burundi during the late 1880s. The location of the present-day city of Gitega served as an administrative centre for the Ruanda-Urundi region.\n\nDuring the First World War, the East African Campaign greatly affected the African Great Lakes region. The allied powers, the British Empire and Belgium launched a coordinated attack on the German colony. The German army stationed in Burundi was forced to retreat by the numerical superiority of the Belgian army and by 17 June 1916, Burundi and Rwanda were occupied. The Force Publique and the British Lake Force then started a thrust to capture Tabora, an administrative centre of central German East Africa. After the war, as outlined in the Treaty of Versailles, Germany was forced to cede \"control\" of the Western section of the former German East Africa to Belgium.\n\nOn 20 October 1924, Ruanda-Urundi, which consisted of modern-day Rwanda and Burundi, became a Belgian League of Nations mandate territory, with Usumbura as its capital. In practical terms it was considered part of the Belgian colonial empire. Ruanda-Urundi continued its kingship dynasty despite the invasion of Europeans.\n\nThe Belgians, however, preserved many of the kingdom's institutions, the Burundian monarchy succeeded in surviving into the post-colonial period. Following the Second World War, Ruanda-Urundi was classified as a United Nations Trust Territory under Belgian administrative authority. During the 1940s, a series of policies caused divisions throughout the country. On 4 October 1943, powers were split in the legislative division of Burundi's government between chiefdoms and lower chiefdoms. Chiefdoms were in charge of land, and lower sub-chiefdoms were established. Native authorities also had powers. In 1948, Belgium allowed the region to form political parties. These factions contributed to Burundi gaining its independence from Belgium, on 1 July 1962.\n\nOn 20 January 1959, Burundi's ruler Mwami Mwambutsa IV requested Burundi's independence from Belgium and dissolution of the Ruanda-Urundi union. In the following months, Burundian political parties began to advocate for the end of Belgian colonial rule and the separation of Rwanda and Burundi. The first and largest of these political parties was the Union for National Progress (UPRONA).\n\nBurundi's push for independence was influenced by the Rwandan Revolution and the accompanying instability and ethnic conflict that occurred there. As a result of the Rwandan Revolution, many Rwandan Tutsi refugees arrived in Burundi during the period from 1959 to 1961.\n\nBurundi's first elections took place on 8 September 1961 and UPRONA, a multi-ethnic unity party led by Prince Louis Rwagasore won just over 80% of the electorate's votes. In the wake of the elections, on 13 October, the 29-year-old Prince Rwagasore was assassinated, robbing Burundi of its most popular and well-known nationalist.\n\nThe country claimed independence on 1 July 1962, and legally changed its name from Ruanda-Urundi to Burundi. Burundi became a constitutional monarchy with Mwami Mwambutsa IV, Prince Rwagasore's father, serving as the country's king. On 18 September 1962 Burundi joined the United Nations.\n\nIn 1963, King Mwambutsa appointed a Hutu prime minister, Pierre Ngendandumwe, but he was assassinated on 15 January 1965 by a Rwandan Tutsi employed by the US Embassy. The assassination occurred in the broader context of the Congo Crisis during which Western anti-communist countries were confronting the communist People's Republic of China as it attempted to make Burundi a logistics base for communist insurgents battling in Congo. Parliamentary elections in May 1965 brought a majority of Hutu into the parliament, but when King Mwambutsa appointed a Tutsi prime minister, some Hutu felt this was unjust and ethnic tensions were further increased. In October 1965, an attempted coup d'état led by the Hutu-dominated police was carried out but failed. The Tutsi dominated army, then led by Tutsi officer Captain Michel Micombero purged Hutu from their ranks and carried out reprisal attacks which ultimately claimed the lives of up to 5,000 people in a precursor to the 1972 Burundian Genocide.\n\nKing Mwambutsa, who had fled the country during the October coup of 1965, was deposed by a coup in July 1966 and his teenage son, Prince Ntare V, claimed the throne. In November that same year, the Tutsi Prime Minister, then-Captain Michel Micombero, carried out another coup, this time deposing Ntare, abolishing the monarchy and declaring the nation a republic, though his one-party government was effectively a military dictatorship. As president, Micombero became an advocate of African socialism and received support from the People's Republic of China. He imposed a staunch regime of law and order and sharply repressed Hutu militarism.\n\nIn late April 1972, two events led to the outbreak of the First Burundian Genocide. On 27 April 1972, a rebellion led by Hutu members of the gendarmerie broke out in the lakeside towns of Rumonge and Nyanza-Lac and the rebels declared the short-lived Martyazo Republic. The rebels attacked both Tutsi and any Hutu who refused to join their rebellion. During this initial Hutu outbreak, anywhere from 800 to 1200 people were killed. At the same time, King Ntare V of Burundi returned from exile, heightening political tension in the country. On 29 April 1972, the 24-year-old Ntare V was murdered. In subsequent months, the Tutsi-dominated government of Micombero used the army to combat Hutu rebels and commit genocide, murdering targeted members of the Hutu majority. The total number of casualties was never established, but contemporary estimates put the number of people killed between 80,000 and 210,000. In addition, several hundred thousand Hutu were estimated to have fled the killings into Zaïre, Rwanda and Tanzania.\n\nFollowing the civil war and genocide, Micombero became mentally distraught and withdrawn. In 1976, Colonel Jean-Baptiste Bagaza, a Tutsi, led a bloodless coup to toppled Micombero and set about promoting reform. His administration drafted a new constitution in 1981, which maintained Burundi's status as a one-party state. In August 1984, Bagaza was elected head of state. During his tenure, Bagaza suppressed political opponents and religious freedoms.\n\nMajor Pierre Buyoya (Tutsi) overthrew Bagaza in 1987, suspended the constitution and dissolved political parties. He reinstated military rule by a Military Committee for National Salvation (CSMN). Anti-Tutsi ethnic propaganda disseminated by the remnants of the 1972 UBU, which had re-organized as PALIPEHUTU in 1981, led to killings of Tutsi peasants in the northern communes of Ntega and Marangara in August 1988. The government put the death toll at 5,000; some international NGOs believed this understated the deaths.\n\nThe new regime did not unleash the harsh reprisals of 1972. Its effort to gain public trust was eroded when it decreed an amnesty for those who had called for, carried out, and taken credit for the killings. Analysts have called this period the beginning of the \"culture of impunity.\" Other analysts put the origins of the \"culture of impunity\" earlier, in 1965 and 1972, when a small number of identifiable Hutus unleashed massive killings of Tutsis.\n\nIn the aftermath of the killings, a group of Hutu intellectuals wrote an open letter to Pierre Buyoya, asking for more representation of the Hutu in the administration. They were arrested and jailed. A few weeks later, Buyoya appointed a new government, with an equal number of Hutu and Tutsi ministers. He appointed Adrien Sibomana (Hutu) as Prime Minister. Buyoya also created a commission to address issues of national unity. In 1992, the government created a new constitution that provided for a multi-party system, but a civil war broke out.\n\nAn estimated total of 250,000 people died in Burundi from the various conflicts between 1962 and 1993. \nSince Burundi's independence in 1962, two genocides have taken place in the country: the 1972 mass killings of Hutus by the Tutsi-dominated army, and the mass killings of Tutsis in 1993 by the Hutu majority. Both were described as genocides in the final report of the International Commission of Inquiry for Burundi presented in 2002 to the United Nations Security Council.\n\nIn June 1993, Melchior Ndadaye, leader of the Hutu-dominated Front for Democracy in Burundi (FRODEBU), won the first democratic election. He became the first Hutu head of state, leading a pro-Hutu government. In October 1993, Tutsi soldiers assassinated Ndadaye, an act which resulted in a genocide against Tutsi, which led to years of violence between Hutu rebels and Tutsi majority army. It is estimated that some 300,000 people, mostly civilians, were killed in the years following the assassination.\n\nIn early 1994, the parliament elected Cyprien Ntaryamira (Hutu) to the office of president. He and Juvénal Habyarimana, the president of Rwanda, died together when their aeroplane was shot down in April 1994. More refugees started fleeing to Rwanda. Speaker of Parliament, Sylvestre Ntibantunganya (Hutu), was appointed as president in October 1994. A coalition government involving 12 of the 13 parties was formed. A feared general massacre was averted, but violence broke out. A number of Hutu refugees in the capital, Bujumbura, were killed. The mainly Tutsi Union for National Progress withdrew from the government and parliament.\n\nIn 1996, Pierre Buyoya (Tutsi) again took power through a coup d'état. He suspended the constitution and was sworn in as president in 1998, this was the start of his second term as president, after his first term from 1987 to 1993. In response to rebel attacks, the government forced much of the population to move to refugee camps. Under Buyoya's rule, long peace talks started, mediated by South Africa. Both parties signed agreements in Arusha, Tanzania and Pretoria, South Africa, to share power in Burundi. The agreements took four years to plan.\nOn 28 August 2000, a transitional government for Burundi was planned as a part of the Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement. The transitional government was placed on a trial basis for five years. After several aborted cease-fires, a 2001 peace plan and power-sharing agreement has been relatively successful. A cease-fire was signed in 2003 between the Tutsi-controlled Burundian government and the largest Hutu rebel group, CNDD-FDD (National Council for the Defense of Democracy-Forces for the Defense of Democracy).\n\nIn 2003, FRODEBU leader Domitien Ndayizeye (Hutu) was elected president. In early 2005, ethnic quotas were formed for determining positions in Burundi's government. Throughout the year, elections for parliament and president occurred.\n\nPierre Nkurunziza (Hutu), once a leader of a rebel group, was elected president in 2005. , the Burundian government was talking with the Hutu-led Palipehutu-National Liberation Forces (NLF) to bring peace to the country.\n\nAfrican leaders began a series of peace talks between the warring factions following a request by the United Nations Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for them to intervene in the humanitarian crisis. Talks were initiated under the aegis of former Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere in 1995; following his death, South African President Nelson Mandela took the helm. As the talks progressed, South African President Thabo Mbeki and United States President Bill Clinton also lent their respective weight.\n\nThe peace talks took the form of Track I mediations. This method of negotiation can be defined as a form of diplomacy involving governmental or intergovernmental representatives, who may use their positive reputations, mediation or the \"carrot and stick\" method as a means of obtaining or forcing an outcome, frequently along the lines of \"bargaining\" or \"win-lose\".\n\nThe main objective was to transform the Burundian government and military structurally in order to bridge the ethnic gap between the Tutsi and Hutu. It was to take place in two major steps. First, a transitional power-sharing government would be established, with the presidents holding office for three-year terms. The second objective involved a restructuring of the armed forces, where the two groups would be represented equally.\n\nAs the protracted nature of the peace talks demonstrated, the mediators and negotiating parties confronted several obstacles. First, the Burundian officials perceived the goals as \"unrealistic\" and viewed the treaty as ambiguous, contradictory and confusing. Second, and perhaps most importantly, the Burundians believed the treaty would be irrelevant without an accompanying cease fire. This would require separate and direct talks with the rebel groups. The main Hutu party was sceptical of the offer of a power-sharing government; they alleged that they had been deceived by the Tutsi in past agreements.\n\nIn 2000, the Burundian President signed the treaty, as well as 13 of the 19 warring Hutu and Tutsi factions. Disagreements persisted over which group would preside over the nascent government, and when the ceasefire would begin. The spoilers of the peace talks were the hardliner Tutsi and Hutu groups who refused to sign the accord; as a result, violence intensified. Three years later at a summit of African leaders in Tanzania, the Burundian president and the main opposition Hutu group signed an accord to end the conflict; the signatory members were granted ministerial posts within the government. However, smaller militant Hutu groups – such as the Forces for National Liberation – remained active.\n\nBetween 1993 and 2003, many rounds of peace talks, overseen by regional leaders in Tanzania, South Africa and Uganda, gradually established power-sharing agreements to satisfy the majority of the contending groups. Initially the South African Protection Support Detachment was deployed to protect Burundian leaders returning from exile. These forces became part of the African Union Mission to Burundi, deployed to help oversee the installation of a transitional government. In June 2004, the UN stepped in and took over peacekeeping responsibilities as a signal of growing international support for the already markedly advanced peace process in Burundi.\n\nThe mission's mandate, under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, has been to monitor cease-fire; carry out disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration of former combatants; support humanitarian assistance and refugee and IDP return; assist with elections; protect international staff and Burundian civilians; monitor Burundi's troublesome borders, including halting illicit arms flows; and assist in carrying out institutional reforms including those of the Constitution, judiciary, armed forces and police. The mission has been allotted 5,650 military personnel, 120 civilian police and about 1,000 international and local civilian personnel. The mission has been functioning well. It has greatly benefited from the transitional government, which has functioned and is in the process of transitioning to one that will be popularly elected.\n\nThe main difficulty in the early stages was continued resistance to the peace process by the last Hutu nationalist rebel group. This organisation continued its violent conflict on the outskirts of the capital despite the UN's presence. By June 2005, the group had stopped fighting and its representatives were brought back into the political process. All political parties have accepted a formula for inter-ethnic power-sharing: no political party can gain access to government offices unless it is ethnically integrated.\n\nThe focus of the UN's mission had been to enshrine the power-sharing arrangements in a popularly voted constitution, so that elections may be held and a new government installed. Disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration were done in tandem with elections preparations. In February 2005, the Constitution was approved with over 90% of the popular vote. In May, June and August 2005, three separate elections were also held at the local level for the Parliament and the presidency.\n\nWhile there are still some difficulties with refugee returns and securing adequate food supplies for the war-weary population, the mission managed to win the trust and confidence of a majority of the formerly warring leaders, as well as the population at large. It was involved with several \"quick effect\" projects, including rehabilitating and building schools, orphanages, health clinics and rebuilding infrastructure such as water lines.\n\nReconstruction efforts in Burundi started to practically take effect after 2006. The UN shut down its peacekeeping mission and re-focused on helping with reconstruction. Toward achieving economic reconstruction, Rwanda, D.R.Congo and Burundi relaunched the regional Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries. In addition, Burundi, along with Rwanda, joined the East African Community in 2007.\n\nHowever, the terms of the September 2006 Ceasefire between the government and the last remaining armed opposition group, the FLN (Forces for National Liberation, also called NLF or FROLINA), were not totally implemented, and senior FLN members subsequently left the truce monitoring team, claiming that their security was threatened. In September 2007, rival FLN factions clashed in the capital, killing 20 fighters and causing residents to begin fleeing. Rebel raids were reported in other parts of the country. The rebel factions disagreed with the government over disarmament and the release of political prisoners. In late 2007 and early 2008, FLN combatants attacked government-protected camps where former combatants were living. The homes of rural residents were also pillaged.\n\nThe 2007 report of Amnesty International mentions many areas where improvement is required. Civilians are victims of repeated acts of violence done by the FLN. The latter also recruits child soldiers. The rate of violence against women is high. Perpetrators regularly escape prosecution and punishment by the state. There is an urgent need for reform of the judicial system. Genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity remain unpunished. The establishment of a Truth and Reconciliation Commission and a Special Tribunal for investigation and prosecution has not yet been implemented. The freedom of expression is limited; journalists are frequently arrested for carrying out legitimate professional activities. A total of 38,087 Burundian refugees have been repatriated between January and November 2007.\n\nIn late March 2008, the FLN sought for the parliament to adopt a law guaranteeing them 'provisional immunity' from arrest. This would cover ordinary crimes, but not grave violations of international humanitarian law like war crimes or crimes against humanity . Even though the government has granted this in the past to people, the FLN has been unable to obtain the provisional immunity.\n\nOn 17 April 2008, the FLN bombarded Bujumbura. The Burundian army fought back and the FLN suffered heavy losses. A new ceasefire was signed on 26 May 2008. In August 2008, President Nkurunziza met with the FLN leader Agathon Rwasa, with the mediation of Charles Nqakula, South Africa's Minister for Safety and Security. This was the first direct meeting since June 2007. Both agreed to meet twice a week to establish a commission to resolve any disputes that might arise during the peace negotiations.\n\nRefugee camps are now closing down and 450,000 refugees have returned. The economy of the country is shattered – Burundi has one of the lowest per capita gross incomes in the world. With the return of refugees, amongst others, property conflicts have started.\n\nBurundi now participates in African Union peacekeeping missions, including the mission to Somalia against Al-Shabaab militants.\n\nIn April 2015 protests broke out after the ruling party announced President Pierre Nkurunziza would seek a third term in office. Protestors claimed Nkurunziza could not run for a third term in office but the country's constitutional court agreed with the President (although some of its members had fled the country at the time of its vote).\n\nAn attempted coup d'état on 13 May failed to depose Nkurunziza.\n\nDespite calls by the United Nations, the African Union, the United States, France, South Africa, Belgium, and various other governments, the ruling party held parliamentary elections on 29 June, but these were boycotted by the opposition.\n\nOn 30 September 2016, the United Nations Human Rights Council established the Commission of Inquiry on Burundi through resolution 33/24. Its mandate is to \"conduct a thorough investigation into human rights violations and abuses committed in Burundi since April 2015, to identify alleged perpetrators and to formulate recommendations.\" The Human Rights Council extended the mandate of the Commission for another year in September 2017. \nOn 29 September 2017 the Commission of Inquiry on Burundi called on Burundian government to put an end to serious human rights violations. It further stressed that, \"The Burundian government has so far refused to cooperate with the Commission of Inquiry, despite the Commission's repeated requests and initiatives.\"\nThe Commission conducted interviews with more than 500 Burundian refugees abroad and others who remained in their country and reached the conclusion that \"serious human rights violations and abuses have been committed in Burundi since April 2015. The violations the Commission documented include arbitrary arrests and detentions, acts of torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, extrajudicial executions, enforced disappearances, rape and other forms of sexual violence.\"\n\nBurundi's political system is that of a presidential representative democratic republic based upon a multi-party state. The President of Burundi is the head of state and head of government. There are currently 21 registered parties in Burundi. On 13 March 1992, Tutsi coup leader Pierre Buyoya established a constitution, which provided for a multi-party political process and reflected multi-party competition. Six years later, on 6 June 1998, the constitution was changed, broadening National Assembly's seats and making provisions for two vice-presidents. Because of the Arusha Accord, Burundi enacted a transitional government in 2000.\n\nBurundi's legislative branch is a bicameral assembly, consisting of the Transitional National Assembly and the Transitional Senate. , the Transitional National Assembly consisted of 170 members, with the Front for Democracy in Burundi holding 38% of seats, and 10% of the assembly controlled by UPRONA. Fifty-two seats were controlled by other parties. Burundi's constitution mandates representation in the Transitional National Assembly to be consistent with 60% Hutu, 40% Tutsi, and 30% female members, as well as three Batwa members. Members of the National Assembly are elected by popular vote and serve five-year terms.\n\nThe Transitional Senate has fifty-one members, and three seats are reserved for former presidents. Due to stipulations in Burundi's constitution, 30% of Senate members must be female. Members of the Senate are elected by electoral colleges, which consist of members from each of Burundi's provinces and communes. For each of Burundi's eighteen provinces, one Hutu and one Tutsi senator are chosen. One term for the Transitional Senate is five years.\n\nTogether, Burundi's legislative branch elect the President to a five-year term. Burundi's president appoints officials to his Council of Ministers, which is also part of the executive branch. The president can also pick fourteen members of the Transitional Senate to serve on the Council of Ministers. Members of the Council of Ministers must be approved by two-thirds of Burundi's legislature. The president also chooses two vice-presidents. As of 7 May 2015, the President of Burundi is Pierre Nkurunziza. The First Vice-President is Therence Sinunguruza, and the Second Vice-President is Gervais Rufyikiri.\n\nThe \"Cour Suprême\" (Supreme Court) is Burundi's highest court. There are three Courts of Appeals directly below the Supreme Court. Tribunals of First Instance are used as judicial courts in each of Burundi's provinces as well as 123 local tribunals.\n\nBurundi's government has been repeatedly criticized by human rights organizations including Human Rights Watch for the multiple arrests and trials of journalist Jean-Claude Kavumbagu for issues related to his reporting. Amnesty International (AI) named him a prisoner of conscience and called for his \"immediate and unconditional release.\"\n\nIn April 2009, the government of Burundi changed the law to criminalise homosexuality. Persons found guilty of consensual same-sex relations risk two to three years in prison and a fine of 50,000 to 100,000 Burundian francs. Amnesty International has condemned the action, calling it a violation of Burundi's obligations under international and regional human rights law, and against the constitution, which guarantees the right to privacy.\n\nBurundi officially left the International Criminal Court (ICC) on October 27, 2017, the first country in the world to do so. The move came after the UN accused the country of various crimes and human rights violations, such as extrajudicial killings, torture and sexual violence, in a September 2017 report. The ICC announced on 9 November 2017 that human rights violations from the time Burundi was a member would still be prosecuted.\n\nBurundi is divided into 18 provinces, 117 communes, and 2,638 collines (hills). Provincial governments are structured upon these boundaries. In 2000, the province encompassing Bujumbura was separated into two provinces, Bujumbura Rural and Bujumbura Mairie. The newest province, Rumonge, was created on 26 March 2015 from portions of Bujumbura Rural and Bururi.\n\nOne of the smallest countries in Africa, Burundi is landlocked and has an equatorial climate. Burundi is a part of the Albertine Rift, the western extension of the East African Rift. The country lies on a rolling plateau in the centre of Africa. The average elevation of the central plateau is , with lower elevations at the borders. The highest peak, Mount Heha at , lies to the southeast of the capital, Bujumbura. The source of the Nile River is in Bururi province, and is linked from Lake Victoria to its headwaters via the Ruvyironza River. Lake Victoria is also an important water source, which serves as a fork to the Kagera River. Another major lake is Lake Tanganyika, located in much of Burundi's southwestern corner.\n\nBurundi's lands are mostly agricultural or pasture. Settlement by rural populations has led to deforestation, soil erosion and habitat loss. Deforestation of the entire country is almost completely due to overpopulation, with a mere remaining and an ongoing loss of about 9% per annum. There are two national parks, Kibira National Park to the northwest (a small region of rainforest, adjacent to Nyungwe Forest National Park in Rwanda), Ruvubu National Park to the northeast (along the Rurubu River, also known as Ruvubu or Ruvuvu). Both were established in 1982 to conserve wildlife populations.\n\nBurundi is a landlocked, resource-poor country with an underdeveloped manufacturing sector. The economy is predominantly agricultural, accounting for 50% of GDP in 2017 and employing more than 90% of the population. Subsistence agriculture accounts for 90% of agriculture. Burundi's primary exports are coffee and tea, which account for 90% of foreign exchange earnings, though exports are a relatively small share of GDP. Other agricultural products include cotton, tea, maize, sorghum, sweet potatoes, bananas, manioc (tapioca); beef, milk and hides. Subsistence farming is highly relied upon, however due to large population growth and no coherent policies governing land ownership, many people do not have the resources to sustain themselves. In 2014, the average farm size was about one acre.\n\nBurundi is one of the world's poorest countries, owing in part to its landlocked geography, poor legal system, lack of economic freedom, lack of access to education and the proliferation of HIV/AIDS. Approximately 80% of Burundi's population lives in poverty. Famines and food shortages have occurred throughout Burundi, most notably in the 20th century, and according to the World Food Programme, 56.8% of children under age five suffer from chronic malnutrition. Burundi's export earnings – and its ability to pay for imports – rests primarily on weather conditions and international coffee and tea prices.\n\nThe purchasing power of most Burundians has decreased as wage increases have not kept up with inflation. Burundi will remain heavily dependent on aid from bilateral and multilateral donors – foreign aid represents 42% of Burundis national income, the second highest rate in Sub-Saharan Africa. Burundi joined the East African Community in 2009, which should boost Burundi's regional trade ties, and also in 2009 received $700 million in debt relief. Government corruption is hindering the development of a healthy private sector as companies seek to navigate an environment with ever-changing rules.\n\nStudies since 2007 have shown Burundians to have extremely poor levels of satisfaction with life; the World Happiness Report 2018 rated them the world's least happy in 2018. As a result of deep poverty, Burundi is dependent on foreign aid.\n\nSome of Burundi's natural resources include uranium, nickel, cobalt, copper and platinum. Besides agriculture, other industries include: assembly of imported components; public works construction; food processing and light consumer goods such as blankets, shoes and soap.\n\nIn regards to telecommunications infrastructure, Burundi is ranked 2nd to last in the World Economic Forum's Network Readiness Index (NRI) – an indicator for determining the development level of a country's information and communication technologies. Burundi ranked number 147 overall in the 2014 NRI ranking, down from 144 in 2013.\n\nLack of access to financial services is a serious problem for the majority of the population, particularly in the densely populated rural areas: only 2% of the total population holds bank accounts, and fewer than 0.5% use bank lending services. Microfinance, however, plays a larger role, with 4% of Burundians being members of microfinance institutions – a larger share of the population than that reached by banking and postal services combined. 26 licensed microfinance institutions (MFIs) offer savings, deposits and short- to medium-term credit. Dependence of the sector on donor assistance is limited.\n\nBurundi is part of the East African Community and a potential member of the planned East African Federation. Economic growth in Burundi is relatively steady but Burundi is still behind neighbouring countries.\n\nBurundi's currency is the Burundian franc (ISO 4217 code BIF). It is nominally subdivided into 100 centimes, though coins have never been issued in centimes in independent Burundi; centime coins were circulated only when Burundi used the Belgian Congo franc.\n\nMonetary Policy is controlled by the central bank, Bank of the Republic of Burundi.\n\nBurundi's transport network is limited and underdeveloped. According to a 2012 \"DHL Global Connectedness Index\", Burundi is the least globalised of 140 surveyed countries. Bujumbura International Airport is the only airport with a paved runway and as of May 2017 it was serviced by four airlines (Brussels Airlines, Ethiopian Airlines, Kenya Airways and RwandAir). Kigali is the city with the most daily flight connections to Bujumbura. The country has a road network but less than 10% of the country's roads were paved and private bus companies were the main operators of buses on the international route to Kigali; however, there were no bus connections to the other neighbouring countries (Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of Congo). Bujumbura is connected by a passenger and cargo ferry (the MV Mwongozo) to Kigoma in Tanzania. There is a long-term plan to link the country via rail to Kigali and then onward to Kampala and Kenya.\n\nAs of July , Burundi was estimated by the United Nations to have a population of people, compared to only 2,456,000 in 1950. The population growth rate is 2.5 percent per year, more than double the average global pace, and a Burundian woman has on average 6.3 children, nearly triple the international fertility rate. Burundi had the fifth highest total fertility rate in the world in 2012.\n\nMany Burundians have migrated to other countries as a result of the civil war. In 2006, the United States accepted approximately 10,000 Burundian refugees.\n\nBurundi remains an overwhelmingly rural society, with just 13% of the population living in urban areas in 2013. The population density of around 315 people per square kilometre (753 per sq mi) is the second highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. Roughly 85% of the population are of Hutu ethnic origin, 15% are Tutsi and fewer than 1% are indigenous Twa.\n\nThe official languages of Burundi are Kirundi, French and, since 2014, English. Swahili can be found spoken along the Tanzanian border and it has some official recognition by law as a language \"spoken and taught\" in the country.\n\nSources estimate the Christian population at 80–90%, with Roman Catholics representing the largest group at 60–65%. Protestant and Anglican practitioners constitute the remaining 15–25%. An estimated 5% of the population adheres to traditional indigenous religious beliefs. Muslims constitute 2–5%, the majority of whom are Sunnis and live in urban areas.\n\nBurundi has the severest hunger and malnourishment rates of all 120 countries ranked in the Global Hunger Index.\"\n\nAccording to the WHO, the average life expectancy in the country is 58/62 years.\n\nBurundi's culture is based on local tradition and the influence of neighbouring countries, though cultural prominence has been hindered by civil unrest. Since farming is the main industry, a typical Burundian meal consists of sweet potatoes, corn and peas. Due to the expense, meat is eaten only a few times per month.\n\nWhen several Burundians of close acquaintance meet for a gathering they drink \"impeke\", a beer, together from a large container to symbolise unity.\n\nNotable Burundians include the footballer Mohammed Tchité and singer Jean-Pierre Nimbona, popularly known as Kidumu (who is based in Nairobi, Kenya).\n\nCrafts are an important art form in Burundi and are attractive gifts to many tourists. Basket weaving is a popular craft for local artisans. Other crafts such as masks, shields, statues and pottery are made in Burundi.\n\nDrumming is an important part of the cultural heritage. The world-famous Royal Drummers of Burundi, who have performed for over 40 years, are noted for traditional drumming using the karyenda, amashako, ibishikiso and ikiranya drums. Dance often accompanies drumming performance, which is frequently seen in celebrations and family gatherings. The abatimbo, which is performed at official ceremonies and rituals and the fast-paced abanyagasimbo are some famous Burundian dances. Some musical instruments of note are the flute, zither, ikembe, indonongo, umuduri, inanga and the inyagara.\nThe country's oral tradition is strong, relaying history and life lessons through storytelling, poetry and song. Imigani, indirimbo, amazina and ivyivugo are literary genres in Burundi.\n\nBasketball and track and field are noted sports. Martial arts are popular, as well. There are five major judo clubs: Club Judo de l'Entente Sportive, in Downtown, and four others throughout the city. Association football is a popular pastime throughout the country, as are mancala games.\n\nMost Christian holidays are celebrated, with Christmas being the largest. Burundian Independence Day is celebrated annually on 1 July. In 2005, the Burundian government declared Eid al-Fitr, an Islamic holiday, to be a public holiday.\n\nIn 2009, the adult literacy rate in Burundi was estimated to be 67% (73% male and 61% female), with a literacy rate of 77% and 76%, respectively, for men and women between the ages of 15 to 24. By 2015, this had increased to 85.6% (88.2% male and 83.1% female). Literacy among adult women has increased by 17% since 2002. Burundi's literacy rate is relatively low due to low school attendance and because literacy in Kirundi only provides access to materials printed in that language, though it is higher than many other African countries. Ten percent of Burundian boys are allowed a secondary education.\n\nBurundi has just one public university, University of Burundi. There are museums in the cities, such as the Burundi Geological Museum in Bujumbura and the Burundi National Museum and the Burundi Museum of Life in Gitega.\n\nThere will be a new school opening in one of the poorest regions, Rusaga, funded by an English charity, the Burundi Education Foundation. The Burundi Education Foundation was hoping to open the school in the summer of 2014.\n\nIn 2010 a new elementary school was opened in the small village of Rwoga that is funded by the pupils of Westwood High School, Quebec, Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5478", "title": "Central African Republic", "text": "Central African Republic\n\nThe Central African Republic (CAR; Sango: \"Ködörösêse tî Bêafrîka\";   , or \"\" ) is a landlocked country in Central Africa. It is bordered by Chad to the north, Sudan to the northeast, South Sudan to the east, the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the south, the Republic of the Congo to the southwest and Cameroon to the west. The CAR covers a land area of about and had an estimated population of around /1e6 round 1 million .\n\nMost of the CAR consists of Sudano-Guinean savannas, but the country also includes a Sahelo-Sudanian zone in the north and an equatorial forest zone in the south. Two thirds of the country is within the Ubangi River basin (which flows into the Congo), while the remaining third lies in the basin of the Chari, which flows into Lake Chad.\n\nWhat is today the Central African Republic has been inhabited for millennia; however, the country's current borders were established by France, which ruled the country as a colony starting in the late 19th century. After gaining independence from France in 1960, the Central African Republic was ruled by a series of autocratic leaders, including an abortive attempt at a monarchy; by the 1990s, calls for democracy led to the first multi-party democratic elections in 1993. Ange-Félix Patassé became president, but was later removed by General François Bozizé in the 2003 coup. The Central African Republic Bush War began in 2004 and, despite a peace treaty in 2007 and another in 2011, fighting broke out between various factions in December 2012, leading to ethnic and religious cleansing of the Muslim minority and massive population displacement in 2013 and 2014.\n\nDespite its significant mineral deposits and other resources, such as uranium reserves, crude oil, gold, diamonds, cobalt, lumber, and hydropower, as well as significant quantities of arable land, the Central African Republic is among the ten poorest countries in the world, with the lowest GDP per capita at purchasing power parity in the world as of 2017. , according to the Human Development Index (HDI), the country had the lowest level of human development, ranking 188th out of 188 countries. It is also estimated to be the unhealthiest country as well as the worst country in which to be young. The Central African Republic is a member of the United Nations, the African Union, the Economic Community of Central African States, the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie and the Non-Aligned Movement.\n\nApproximately 10,000 years ago, desertification forced hunter-gatherer societies south into the Sahel regions of northern Central Africa, where some groups settled. Farming began as part of the Neolithic Revolution. Initial farming of white yam progressed into millet and sorghum, and before 3000 BC the domestication of African oil palm improved the groups' nutrition and allowed for expansion of the local populations. This Agricultural Revolution, combined with a \"Fish-stew Revolution\", in which fishing began to take place, and the use of boats, allowed for the transportation of goods. Products were often moved in ceramic pots, which are the first known examples of artistic expression from the region's inhabitants.\n\nThe Bouar Megaliths in the western region of the country indicate an advanced level of habitation dating back to the very late Neolithic Era (c. 3500–2700 BC). Ironworking arrived in the region around 1000 BC from both Bantu cultures in what is today Nigeria and from the Nile city of Meroë, the capital of the Kingdom of Kush.\n\nDuring the Bantu Migrations from about 1000 BC to AD 1000, Ubangian-speaking people spread eastward from Cameroon to Sudan, Bantu-speaking people settled in the southwestern regions of the CAR, and Central Sudanic-speaking people settled along the Ubangi River in what is today Central and East CAR.\n\nBananas arrived in the region and added an important source of carbohydrates to the diet; they were also used in the production of alcoholic beverages. Production of copper, salt, dried fish, and textiles dominated the economic trade in the Central African region.\n\nDuring the 16th and 17th centuries slave traders began to raid the region as part of the expansion of the Saharan and Nile River slave routes. Their captives were enslaved and shipped to the Mediterranean coast, Europe, Arabia, the Western Hemisphere, or to the slave ports and factories along the West and North Africa or South the Ubanqui and Congo rivers. In the mid 19th century, the Bobangi people became major slave traders and sold their captives to the Americas using the Ubangi river to reach the coast. During the 18th century Bandia-Nzakara peoples established the Bangassou Kingdom along the Ubangi River. In 1875, the Sudanese sultan Rabih az-Zubayr governed Upper-Oubangui, which included present-day CAR.\n\nThe European penetration of Central African territory began in the late 19th century during the Scramble for Africa. Europeans, primarily the French, Germans, and Belgians, arrived in the area in 1885. France created Ubangi-Shari territory in 1894. In 1911 at the Treaty of Fez, France ceded a nearly 300,000 km² portion of the Sangha and Lobaye basins to the German Empire which ceded a smaller area (in present-day Chad) to France. After World War I France again annexed the territory. Modeled on King Leopold's Congo Free State, concessions were doled out to private companies that endeavored to strip the region's assets as quickly and cheaply as possible before depositing a percentage of their profits into the French treasury. The concessionary companies forced local people to harvest rubber, coffee, and other commodities without pay and held their families hostage until they met their quotas. Between 1890, a year after the French first arrived, and 1940, the population declined by half due to diseases, famine and exploitation by private companies.\nIn 1920 French Equatorial Africa was established and Ubangi-Shari was administered from Brazzaville. During the 1920s and 1930s the French introduced a policy of mandatory cotton cultivation, a network of roads was built, attempts were made to combat sleeping sickness and Protestant missions were established to spread Christianity. New forms of forced labor were also introduced and a large number of Ubangians were sent to work on the Congo-Ocean Railway. Through the period of construction until 1934 there was a continual heavy cost in human lives, with total deaths among all workers along the railway estimated in excess of 17,000 of the construction workers, from a combination of both industrial accidents and diseases including malaria. In 1928, a major insurrection, the Kongo-Wara rebellion or 'war of the hoe handle', broke out in Western Ubangi-Shari and continued for several years. The extent of this insurrection, which was perhaps the largest anti-colonial rebellion in Africa during the interwar years, was carefully hidden from the French public because it provided evidence of strong opposition to French colonial rule and forced labor.\n\nIn September 1940, during the Second World War, pro-Gaullist French officers took control of Ubangi-Shari and General Leclerc established his headquarters for the Free French Forces in Bangui. In 1946 Barthélémy Boganda was elected with 9,000 votes to the French National Assembly, becoming the first representative of the CAR in the French government. Boganda maintained a political stance against racism and the colonial regime but gradually became disheartened with the French political system and returned to CAR to establish the Movement for the Social Evolution of Black Africa (\"Mouvement pour l'évolution sociale de l'Afrique noire\", MESAN) in 1950.\n\nIn the Ubangi-Shari Territorial Assembly election in 1957, MESAN captured 347,000 out of the total 356,000 votes, and won every legislative seat, which led to Boganda being elected president of the Grand Council of French Equatorial Africa and vice-president of the Ubangi-Shari Government Council. Within a year, he declared the establishment of the Central African Republic and served as the country's first prime minister. MESAN continued to exist, but its role was limited. After Boganda's death in a plane crash on 29 March 1959, his cousin, David Dacko, took control of MESAN and became the country's first president after the CAR had formally received independence from France. Dacko threw out his political rivals, including former Prime Minister and Mouvement d'évolution démocratique de l'Afrique centrale (MEDAC), leader Abel Goumba, whom he forced into exile in France. With all opposition parties suppressed by November 1962, Dacko declared MESAN as the official party of the state.\n\nOn 31 December 1965, Dacko was overthrown in the Saint-Sylvestre coup d'état by Colonel Jean-Bédel Bokassa, who suspended the constitution and dissolved the National Assembly. President Bokassa declared himself President for Life in 1972, and named himself Emperor Bokassa I of the Central African Empire (as the country was renamed) on 4 December 1976. A year later, Emperor Bokassa crowned himself in a lavish and expensive ceremony that was ridiculed by much of the world.\n\nIn April 1979, young students protested against Bokassa's decree that all school attendees would need to buy uniforms from a company owned by one of his wives. The government violently suppressed the protests, killing 100 children and teenagers. Bokassa himself may have been personally involved in some of the killings. In September 1979, France overthrew Bokassa and restored Dacko to power (subsequently restoring the name of the country to the Central African Republic). Dacko, in turn, was again overthrown in a coup by General André Kolingba on 1 September 1981.\n\nKolingba suspended the constitution and ruled with a military junta until 1985. He introduced a new constitution in 1986 which was adopted by a nationwide referendum. Membership in his new party, the Rassemblement Démocratique Centrafricain (RDC), was voluntary. In 1987 and 1988, semi-free elections to parliament were held but Kolingba's two major political opponents, Abel Goumba and Ange-Félix Patassé were not allowed to participate.\n\nBy 1990, inspired by the fall of the Berlin Wall, a pro-democracy movement arose. Pressure from the United States, France, and from a group of locally represented countries and agencies called GIBAFOR (France, the USA, Germany, Japan, the EU, the World Bank, and the UN) finally led Kolingba to agree, in principle, to hold free elections in October 1992 with help from the UN Office of Electoral Affairs. After using the excuse of alleged irregularities to suspend the results of the elections as a pretext for holding on to power, President Kolingba came under intense pressure from GIBAFOR to establish a \"Conseil National Politique Provisoire de la République\" (Provisional National Political Council, CNPPR) and to set up a \"Mixed Electoral Commission\", which included representatives from all political parties.\n\nWhen a second round of elections were finally held in 1993, again with the help of the international community coordinated by GIBAFOR, Ange-Félix Patassé won in the second round of voting with 53% of the vote while Goumba won 45.6%. Patassé's party, the \"Mouvement pour la Libération du Peuple Centrafricain\" (MLPC) or Movement for the Liberation of the Central African People, gained a simple but not an absolute majority of seats in parliament, which meant Patassé's party required coalition partners.\n\nPatassé purged many of the Kolingba elements from the government and Kolingba supporters accused Patassé's government of conducting a \"witch hunt\" against the Yakoma. A new constitution was approved on 28 December 1994 but had little impact on the country's politics. In 1996–1997, reflecting steadily decreasing public confidence in the government's erratic behaviour, three mutinies against Patassé's administration were accompanied by widespread destruction of property and heightened ethnic tension. During this time (1996) the Peace Corps evacuated all its volunteers to neighboring Cameroon. To date, the Peace Corps has not returned to the Central African Republic. The Bangui Agreements, signed in January 1997, provided for the deployment of an inter-African military mission, to Central African Republic and re-entry of ex-mutineers into the government on 7 April 1997. The inter-African military mission was later replaced by a U.N. peacekeeping force (MINURCA). Since 1997, the country has hosted almost a dozen peacekeeping interventions, earning it the title of \"world champion of peacekeeping\".\n\nIn 1998, parliamentary elections resulted in Kolingba's RDC winning 20 out of 109 seats but in 1999, in spite of widespread public anger in urban centers over his corrupt rule, Patassé won a second term in the presidential election.\n\nOn 28 May 2001, rebels stormed strategic buildings in Bangui in an unsuccessful coup attempt. The army chief of staff, Abel Abrou, and General François N'Djadder Bedaya were killed, but Patassé regained the upper hand by bringing in at least 300 troops of the Congolese rebel leader Jean-Pierre Bemba and Libyan soldiers.\n\nIn the aftermath of the failed coup, militias loyal to Patassé sought revenge against rebels in many neighborhoods of Bangui and incited unrest including the murder of many political opponents. Eventually, Patassé came to suspect that General François Bozizé was involved in another coup attempt against him, which led Bozizé to flee with loyal troops to Chad. In March 2003, Bozizé launched a surprise attack against Patassé, who was out of the country. Libyan troops and some 1,000 soldiers of Bemba's Congolese rebel organization failed to stop the rebels and Bozizé's forces succeeded in overthrowing Patassé.\n\nFrançois Bozizé suspended the constitution and named a new cabinet, which included most opposition parties. Abel Goumba was named vice-president, which gave Bozizé's new government a positive image. Bozizé established a broad-based National Transition Council to draft a new constitution, and announced that he would step down and run for office once the new constitution was approved.\n\nIn 2004 the Central African Republic Bush War began, as forces opposed to Bozizé took up arms against his government. In May 2005, Bozizé won the presidential election, which excluded Patassé, and in 2006 fighting continued between the government and the rebels. In November 2006, Bozizé's government requested French military support to help them repel rebels who had taken control of towns in the country's northern regions.\nThough the initially public details of the agreement pertained to logistics and intelligence, the French assistance eventually included strikes by Dassault Mirage 2000 fighters against rebel positions.\n\nThe Syrte Agreement in February and the Birao Peace Agreement in April 2007 called for a cessation of hostilities, the billeting of FDPC fighters and their integration with FACA, the liberation of political prisoners, integration of FDPC into government, an amnesty for the UFDR, its recognition as a political party, and the integration of its fighters into the national army. Several groups continued to fight but other groups signed on to the agreement, or similar agreements with the government (e.g. UFR on 15 December 2008). The only major group not to sign an agreement at the time was the CPJP, which continued its activities and signed a peace agreement with the government on 25 August 2012.\n\nIn 2011 Bozizé was reelected in an election which was widely considered fraudulent.\n\nIn November 2012, Séléka, a coalition of rebel groups, took over towns in the northern and central regions of the country. These groups eventually reached a peace deal with the Bozizé's government in January 2013 involving a power sharing government but this deal broke down and the rebels seized the capital in March 2013 and Bozizé fled the country.\n\nMichel Djotodia took over as president. Prime Minister Nicolas Tiangaye requested a UN peacekeeping force from the UN Security Council and on 31 May former President Bozizé was indicted for crimes against humanity and incitement of genocide.\nBy the end of the year there were international warnings of a \"genocide\" and fighting was largely from reprisal attacks on civilians from Seleka's predominantly Muslim fighters and Christian militias called \"anti-balaka.\" By August 2013, there were reports of over 200,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs)\nFrench President François Hollande called on the UN Security Council and African Union to increase their efforts to stabilize the country. On 18 February 2014, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called on the UN Security Council to immediately deploy 3,000 troops to the country, bolstering the 6,000 African Union soldiers and 2,000 French troops already in the country, to combat civilians being murdered in large numbers. The \"Séléka\" government was said to be divided. and in September 2013, Djotodia officially disbanded Seleka, but many rebels refused to disarm, becoming known as ex-Seleka, and veered further out of government control. It is argued that the focus of the initial disarmament efforts exclusively on the Seleka inadvertently handed the anti-Balaka the upper hand, leading to the forced displacement of Muslim civilians by anti-Balaka in Bangui and western CAR.\n\nOn 11 January 2014, Michael Djotodia and Nicolas Tiengaye resigned as part of a deal negotiated at a regional summit in neighboring Chad. Catherine Samba-Panza was elected as interim president by the National Transitional Council, becoming the first ever female Central African president. On 23 July 2014, following Congolese mediation efforts, Séléka and anti-balaka representatives signed a ceasefire agreement in Brazzaville. By the end of 2014, the country was de facto partitioned with the anti-Balaka in the southwest and ex-Seleka in the northeast. On 14 December 2015, Séléka rebel leaders declared an independent Republic of Logone.\n\nThe Central African Republic is a landlocked nation within the interior of the African continent. It is bordered by Cameroon, Chad, Sudan, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and the Republic of the Congo. The country lies between latitudes 2° and 11°N, and longitudes 14° and 28°E.\n\nMuch of the country consists of flat or rolling plateau savanna approximately above sea level. Most of the northern half lies within the World Wildlife Fund's East Sudanian savanna ecoregion. In addition to the Fertit Hills in the northeast of the CAR, there are scattered hills in the southwest regions. In the northwest is the Yade Massif, a granite plateau with an altitude of .\n\nAt , the Central African Republic is the world's 45th-largest country. It is comparable in size to Ukraine.\n\nMuch of the southern border is formed by tributaries of the Congo River; the Mbomou River in the east merges with the Uele River to form the Ubangi River, which also comprises portions of the southern border. The Sangha River flows through some of the western regions of the country, while the eastern border lies along the edge of the Nile River watershed.\n\nIt has been estimated that up to 8% of the country is covered by forest, with the densest parts generally located in the southern regions. The forests are highly diverse and include commercially important species of Ayous, Sapelli and Sipo. The deforestation rate is about 0.4% per annum, and lumber poaching is commonplace.\n\nIn 2008, Central African Republic was the world's least light pollution affected country.\n\nThe Central African Republic is the focal point of the Bangui Magnetic Anomaly, one of the largest magnetic anomalies on Earth.\n\nIn the southwest, the Dzanga-Sangha National Park is located in a rain forest area. The country is noted for its population of forest elephants and western lowland gorillas. In the north, the Manovo-Gounda St Floris National Park is well-populated with wildlife, including leopards, lions, cheetahs and rhinos, and the Bamingui-Bangoran National Park is located in the northeast of CAR. The parks have been seriously affected by the activities of poachers, particularly those from Sudan, over the past two decades. \n\nThe climate of the Central African Republic is generally tropical, with a wet season that lasts from June to September in the northern regions of the country, and from May to October in the south. During the wet season, rainstorms are an almost daily occurrence, and early morning fog is commonplace. Maximum annual precipitation is approximately in the upper Ubangi region.\n\nThe northern areas are hot and humid from February to May, but can be subject to the hot, dry, and dusty trade wind known as the Harmattan. The southern regions have a more equatorial climate, but they are subject to desertification, while the extreme northeast regions of the country are already desert.\n\nThe Central African Republic is divided into 16 administrative prefectures (\"préfectures\"), two of which are economic prefectures (\"préfectures economiques\"), and one an autonomous commune; the prefectures are further divided into 71 sub-prefectures (\"sous-préfectures\").\n\nThe prefectures are Bamingui-Bangoran, Basse-Kotto, Haute-Kotto, Haut-Mbomou, Kémo, Lobaye, Mambéré-Kadéï, Mbomou, Nana-Mambéré, Ombella-M'Poko, Ouaka, Ouham, Ouham-Pendé and Vakaga. The economic prefectures are Nana-Grébizi and Sangha-Mbaéré, while the commune is the capital city of Bangui.\n\nThe population of the Central African Republic has almost quadrupled since independence. In 1960, the population was 1,232,000; as of a UN estimate, it is approximately .\n\nThe United Nations estimates that approximately 4% of the population aged between 15 and 49 is HIV positive. Only 3% of the country has antiretroviral therapy available, compared to a 17% coverage in the neighbouring countries of Chad and the Republic of the Congo.\n\nThe nation is divided into over 80 ethnic groups, each having its own language. The largest ethnic groups are the Baya, Banda, Mandjia, Sara, Mboum, M'Baka, Yakoma, and Fula or Fulani, with others including Europeans of mostly French descent.\n\nAccording to the 2003 national census, 80.3% of the population was Christian—51.4% Protestant and 28.9% Roman Catholic—and 10% is Muslim. More recent work from the Pew Research Center estimated that, as of 2010, Christians constituted 89.8% of the population (with Protestantism at 60.7% and Catholicism 28.5%) while Muslims make up 8.9%. The Catholic Church claims over 1.5 million adherents, approximately one-third of the population. Indigenous belief (animism) is also practiced, and many indigenous beliefs are incorporated into Christian and Islamic practice. A UN director described religious tensions between Muslims and Christians as being high.\n\nThere are many missionary groups operating in the country, including Lutherans, Baptists, Catholics, Grace Brethren, and Jehovah's Witnesses. While these missionaries are predominantly from the United States, France, Italy, and Spain, many are also from Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and other African countries. Large numbers of missionaries left the country when fighting broke out between rebel and government forces in 2002–3, but many of them have now returned to continue their work.\n\nAccording to Overseas Development Institute research, during the crisis ongoing since 2012, religious leaders have mediated between communities and armed groups; they also provided refuge for people seeking shelter.\n\nThe Central African Republic's two official languages are French and Sango (also spelled Sangho), a creole developed as an inter-ethnic lingua franca based on the local Ngbandi language. CAR is one of the few African countries to have an African language as their official language.\n\nBasketball is the country's most popular sport and a good way to connect with its people. Its national team won the African Championship twice and was the first Sub-Saharan African team to qualify for the Basketball World Cup.\n\nThe country also has a national football team, which is governed by the Fédération Centrafricaine de Football, and stages matches at the Barthélemy Boganda Stadium.\n\nPolitics in the Central African Republic formally take place in a framework of a semi-presidential republic. In this system, the President is the head of state, with a Prime Minister as head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament.\n\nChanges in government have occurred in recent years by three methods: violence, negotiations, and elections. A new constitution was approved by voters in a referendum held on 5 December 2004. The government was rated 'Partly Free' from 1991 to 2001 and from 2004 to 2013.\n\nThe president is elected by popular vote for a six-year term, and the prime minister is appointed by the president. The president also appoints and presides over the Council of Ministers, which initiates laws and oversees government operations. However, as of 2018 the official government is not in control of large parts of the country, which are governed by rebel groups.\n\nActing president since April 2016 is Faustin Archange Touadera who followed the interim government under Catherine Samba-Panza, interim prime minister André Nzapayeké.\n\nThe National Assembly (\"Assemblée Nationale\") has 105 members, elected for a five-year term using the two-round (or Run-off) system.\n\nLike in many other former French colonies, the Central African Republic's legal system is based on French law. The Supreme Court, or \"Cour Supreme\", is made up of judges appointed by the president. There is also a Constitutional Court, and its judges are also appointed by the president.\n\nThe Central African Republic is heavily dependent upon foreign aid and numerous NGOs provide services that the government does not provide.\n\nIn 2006, due to ongoing violence, over 50,000 people in the country's northwest were at risk of starvation but this was averted due to assistance from the United Nations. On 8 January 2008, the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon declared that the Central African Republic was eligible to receive assistance from the Peacebuilding Fund. Three priority areas were identified: first, the reform of the security sector; second, the promotion of good governance and the rule of law; and third, the revitalization of communities affected by conflicts. On 12 June 2008, the Central African Republic requested assistance from the UN Peacebuilding Commission, which was set up in 2005 to help countries emerging from conflict avoid devolving back into war or chaos.\n\nIn response to concerns of a potential genocide, a peacekeeping force – the International Support Mission to the Central African Republic (MISCA) – was authorised in December 2013. This African Union force of 6,000 personnel was accompanied by the French Operation Sangaris.\n\nThe per capita income of the Republic is often listed as being approximately $400 a year, one of the lowest in the world, but this figure is based mostly on reported sales of exports and largely ignores the unregistered sale of foods, locally produced alcoholic beverages, diamonds, ivory, bushmeat, and traditional medicine.\n\nThe currency of Central African Republic is the CFA franc, which is accepted across the former countries of French West Africa and trades at a fixed rate to the euro. Diamonds constitute the country's most important export, accounting for 40–55% of export revenues, but it is estimated that between 30% and 50% of those produced each year leave the country clandestinely.\nAgriculture is dominated by the cultivation and sale of food crops such as cassava, peanuts, maize, sorghum, millet, sesame, and plantain. The annual real GDP growth rate is just above 3%. The importance of food crops over exported cash crops is indicated by the fact that the total production of cassava, the staple food of most Central Africans, ranges between 200,000 and 300,000 tonnes a year, while the production of cotton, the principal exported cash crop, ranges from 25,000 to 45,000 tonnes a year. Food crops are not exported in large quantities, but still constitute the principal cash crops of the country, because Central Africans derive far more income from the periodic sale of surplus food crops than from exported cash crops such as cotton or coffee. Much of the country is self-sufficient in food crops; however, livestock development is hindered by the presence of the tsetse fly.\n\nThe Republic's primary import partner is the Netherlands (19.5%). Other imports come from Cameroon (9.7%), France (9.3%), and South Korea (8.7%). Its largest export partner is Belgium (31.5%), followed by China (27.7%), the Democratic Republic of Congo (8.6%), Indonesia (5.2%), and France (4.5%).\n\nThe CAR is a member of the Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa (OHADA). In the 2009 World Bank Group's report \"Doing Business\", it was ranked 183rd of 183 as regards 'ease of doing business', a composite index which takes into account regulations that enhance business activity and those that restrict it.\n\nBangui is the transport hub of the Central African Republic. As of 1999, eight roads connected the city to other main towns in the country, Cameroon, Chad and South Sudan; of these, only the toll roads are paved. During the rainy season from July to October, some roads are impassable.\n\nRiver ferries sail from the river port at Bangui to Brazzaville and Zongo. The river can be navigated most of the year between Bangui and Brazzaville. From Brazzaville, goods are transported by rail to Pointe-Noire, Congo's Atlantic port. The river port handles the overwhelming majority of the country's international trade and has a cargo handling capacity of 350,000 tons; it has length of wharfs and of warehousing space.\n\nBangui M'Poko International Airport is Central African Republic's only international airport. As of June 2014 it had regularly scheduled direct flights to Brazzaville, Casablanca, Cotonou, Douala, Kinshasha, Lomé, Luanda, Malabo, N'Djamena, Paris, Pointe-Noire, and Yaoundé.\n\nSince at least 2002 there have been plans to connect Bangui by rail to the Transcameroon Railway.\n\nThe Central African Republic primarily uses hydroelectricity as there are few other resources for energy and power for the world around them.\n\nPresently, the Central African Republic has active television services, radio stations, internet service providers, and mobile phone carriers; Socatel is the leading provider for both internet and mobile phone access throughout the country. The primary governmental regulating bodies of telecommunications are the Ministère des Postes and Télécommunications et des Nouvelles Technologies. In addition, the Central African Republic receives international support on telecommunication related operations from ITU Telecommunication Development Sector (ITU-D) within the International Telecommunication Union to improve infrastructure.\n\nPublic education in the Central African Republic is free and is compulsory from ages 6 to 14. However, approximately half of the adult population of the country is illiterate.\n\nThe University of Bangui, a public university located in Bangui, includes a medical school, and Euclid University, an international university in Bangui, are the two institutions of higher education in the Central African Republic.\n\nThe largest hospitals in the country are located in the Bangui district. As a member of the World Health Organization, the Central African Republic receives vaccination assistance, such as a 2014 intervention for the prevention of a measles epidemic. In 2007, female life expectancy at birth was 48.2 years and male life expectancy at birth was 45.1 years.\n\nWomen's health is poor in the Central African Republic. , the country had the 4th highest maternal mortality rate in the world.\nThe total fertility rate in 2014 was estimated at 4.46 children born/woman. Approximately 25% of women had undergone female genital mutilation. Many births in the country are guided by traditional birth attendants, who often have little or no formal training.\n\nMalaria is endemic in the Central African Republic, and one of the leading causes of death.\nAccording to 2009 estimates, the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate is about 4.7% of the adult population (ages 15–49). This is in general agreement with the 2016 United Nations estimate of approximately 4%. Government expenditure on health was US$20 (PPP) per person in 2006 and 10.9% of total government expenditure in 2006. There was only around 1 physician for every 20,000 persons in 2009.\n\nThe 2009 Human Rights Report by the United States Department of State noted that human rights in CAR were poor and expressed concerns over numerous government abuses. The U.S. State Department alleged that major human rights abuses such as extrajudicial executions by security forces, torture, beatings and rape of suspects and prisoners occurred with impunity. It also alleged harsh and life-threatening conditions in prisons and detention centers, arbitrary arrest, prolonged pretrial detention and denial of a fair trial, restrictions on freedom of movement, official corruption, and restrictions on workers' rights.\n\nThe State Department report also cites widespread mob violence, the prevalence of female genital mutilation, discrimination against women and Pygmies, human trafficking, forced labor, and child labor. Freedom of movement is limited in the northern part of the country \"because of actions by state security forces, armed bandits, and other nonstate armed entities\", and due to fighting between government and anti-government forces, many persons have been internally displaced.\n\nViolence against children and women in relation to accusations of witchcraft has also been cited as a serious problem in the country. Witchcraft is a criminal offense under the penal code.\n\nFreedom of speech is addressed in the country's constitution, but there have been incidents of government intimidation of the media. A report by the International Research & Exchanges Board's media sustainability index noted that \"the country minimally met objectives, with segments of the legal system and government opposed to a free media system\".\n\nApproximately 68% of girls are married before they turn 18, and the United Nations' Human Development Index ranked the country 188 out of 188 countries surveyed. The Bureau of International Labor Affairs has also mentioned it in its last edition of the \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2974646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2974646", "title": "Coat of arms of Gabon", "text": "Coat of arms of Gabon\n\nThe coat of arms of Gabon was designed by the Swiss heraldist and vexillologist Louis Mühlemann, one of the founding members of the FIAV and also designer of the former coat of arms of Congo. It has been in use since 15 July 1963. \n\nThe supporters of the symbol are panthers which symbolize the vigilance and courage of the president who protects the nation. The bezants (golden discs) in chief of the shield symbolize the mineral wealth of the country. The ship at the lower part represents Gabon moving towards a brighter future. According to Briggs, \"green represents the great dense forests; yellow, the sun; blue, the sea; and black, the people of Africa\". The okoumé tree at the top of the shield symbolizes the timber trade. \n\nThe coat of arms is unusual in having two ribbons with mottos in two different languages. The ribbon below the shield has a motto in French 'UNION, TRAVAIL, JUSTICE' ('Unity, Work, Justice'). The second ribbon is placed beneath the branches of the okoumé tree and has a motto in Latin 'UNITI PROGREDIEMUR' ('We shall go forward united').\n\n"}
{"id": "13340538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13340538", "title": "Compulsory stock obligation", "text": "Compulsory stock obligation\n\nIn the UK, a compulsory stock obligation (CSO) is a minimum stock of fuel reserves that must be held by a supplier against shortages or interruptions in supply. The scheme is administered by the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI).\n\nCompanies incur an obligation if they are a supplier of a volume of 100,000 tonnes of fuel per annum or greater. This obligation is assessed as being a holding of 67.5 days' stock (50 days for the UK).\n"}
{"id": "38722583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38722583", "title": "Council of South American Defense", "text": "Council of South American Defense\n\nThe Council of South American Defense (, , ) is a mechanism that aims to promote the exchange of safety among the countries that make up the Union of South American Nations, such as military exchanges, experiences in peacekeeping missions, military exercises, confidence building measures mutual and coordinated assistance in areas of natural disasters, among others.\n\nIts statutes provide for a session once a year. Its resolutions are adopted by consensus.\n\nThe Presidency has the responsibility to coordinate all the activities happening under the umbrella of the Council. The Presidency is exercised by the Pro Tempore President of UNASUR. Also, the Council has an advising body called the Center of Strategic Defencee Studies.\n\nThe Defence Council is not a conventional military alliance like NATO, but it involves some regional military coordination.\n\n"}
{"id": "12132198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12132198", "title": "Court of Appeal (Belgium)", "text": "Court of Appeal (Belgium)\n\nThe Court of Appeal (, , ) in Belgium is a court which hears appeals against decisions of the Court of First Instance and the Commercial Court. Unlike the Court of First Instance, the Court of Appeal isn't divided into different divisions. There are five Courts of Appeal in Belgium. Each Court of Appeal hears appeals against the decisions of the Courts of First Instance and the Commercial Courts of the judicial arrondissements within its jurisdiction. The Court of Appeal doesn't hear appeals against decisions of the Labour Court. Decisions of Labour Courts can only be appealed against to the Court of Labour.\n\nThe Court of Appeal of Antwerp has jurisdiction over the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg, and has a second seat in Tongeren, that of Brussels has jurisdiction over the Brussels-Capital Region and the provinces of Flemish Brabant and Walloon Brabant, that of Ghent has jurisdiction over the provinces of East Flanders and West Flanders, that of Liège has jurisdiction over the provinces of Liège, Namur and Luxembourg, and that of Mons has jurisdiction over the province of Hainaut.\n\nThe Courts of Appeal of Antwerp and Ghent hear appeals in Dutch, that of Mons hears appeals in French and that of Brussels hears appeals in both Dutch and French. The Court of Appeal of Liège hears appeals in French, but can also hear appeals in German.\n"}
{"id": "37607544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37607544", "title": "Dacian fortress of Clopotiva", "text": "Dacian fortress of Clopotiva\n\nIt was a Dacian fortified town.\n"}
{"id": "19131566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19131566", "title": "EMT (mobile operator)", "text": "EMT (mobile operator)\n\nAS EMT was Estonia's and one of the Baltic's largest mobile operator. Founded on 28 April 1991 as an Estonian under Eesti Telekom (now Telia Eesti).\n\nOn 20 January 2016, the company, along with telecommunications provider Elion were merged under the Telia name, along with parent company Eesti Telekom becoming Telia Eesti.\n\nThe company is headquartered in Tallinn. Traded on NASDAQ OMX stock exchanges.\n\n"}
{"id": "3867779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3867779", "title": "Ethiopid race", "text": "Ethiopid race\n\nEthiopid (also spelled Aethiopid, Erythriote) is a historical racial classification of humans. It was equivalent with the Eastern Hamite division of the Caucasian race.\n\nEthiopids are typically classified as a Caucasoid (Europid) subrace. According to John Baker (1974), in their stable form, their center of distribution was considered to be Horn of Africa, among that region's Hamito-Semitic-speaking populations.\n\nPhysically, the classic Ethiopid was of medium height, with a dolicocephalic or mesocephalic skull (see cephalic index). Facial form was essentially Caucasoid, with an orthognathic profile (no prognathism) and a rather prominent, narrow nose. Hair form was often ringlety and skin color was invariably brown, with either a reddish or blackish tinge. It is not certain which Caucasoid subrace formed the basis of this stock, but authorities usually suggested Mediterranid or Proto-Mediterranid ancestors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8020504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8020504", "title": "Everest Air", "text": "Everest Air\n\nEverest Air was an airline based in Nepal.\n\n\nTha airline was originally formed as Nepal Air Charter Services. It was formed in 1992 and became defunct in 1998.\n\nEverest operated scheduled flights with Dornier aircraft to Bhairawa, Bharatpur, Biratnagar, Jomsom, Jumla, Lamidanda, Pokhara, Ramechap and Rumjatar. It also operated helicopters to Lukla.\n\n"}
{"id": "103442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103442", "title": "Flag of the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic", "text": "Flag of the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic\n\nThe flag of the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic flag shows a yellow hammer and sickle and outlined star on a red field above a band of water waves near the bottom, and was adopted by the Estonian SSR on February 6, 1953.\n\nThe description of the flag is described from the Supreme Soviet of the Estonian SSR: \n\nFrom 1940, the flag was red with a gold hammer and sickle in the top-left corner. Above the hammer and sickle were the gold Latin characters \"ENSV\" (\"Eesti Nõukogude Sotsialistlik Vabariik\") in a sans-serif font. The flag was restored again in 1944 after the re-capture of Estonia from Nazi Germany.\n\nOn February 6, 1953, the final version of the Estonian SSR flag was adopted. Though similar to the flag of the Soviet Union, it has the six spiky blue wavy stripes with the white stripe on the bottom. Neither the Constitution (Fundamental Law) of the Estonian SSR, nor in the statute of the national flag of the Estonian SSR did not mentioned the shade of blue wavy stripes on the flag. Soviet vexillologist V. N. Streltsov in Odessa described it as \"electric blue\".\n\nDuring that period, many of the Estonian diaspora continued to use the blue-black-white flag including the government in-exile over the years during occupation.\n\nThe Soviet flag of Estonia was gradually discarded during the \"perestroika\" period between 1988 and 1989. Beginning in 1990, the flag was reverted to the tricolor flag used in 1918 which remained as the flag after the restoration of independence only a year later. This was defined on May 10, 1990 when the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Republic of Estonia adopted a resolution \"On the use of the national flag as a national symbol of the restoration of independence of the Republic of Estonia\" (\"Eesti rahvuslipu kui taastatava iseseisva vabariigi riikliku sümboli kasutamise korra kohta\"), which was regulated use of the tricolor flag.\n\n"}
{"id": "2620342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2620342", "title": "Freedom Day (Malta)", "text": "Freedom Day (Malta)\n\nFreedom Day () is a Maltese national holiday celebrated annually on 31 March. This is the anniversary of the withdrawal of British troops and the Royal Navy from Malta in 1979. On taking power in 1971, the Labour Government indicated it wanted to re-negotiate the lease agreement with the United Kingdom. Following protracted and sometimes tense talks, a new agreement was signed whereby the lease was extended till the end of March 1979 at a vastly increased rent. On 31 March 1979 the last British Forces left Malta. For the first time in a millennium, Malta was no longer a military base of a foreign power and it became independent \"de facto\" as well as \"de jure\".\n\nThe main events of the activities commemorating this date take place at the Freedom Day Monument at Birgu (Vittoriosa) and at the War Memorial in Floriana. In the afternoon the Grand Harbour hosts a competitive regatta.\n\n"}
{"id": "47285290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47285290", "title": "Funivia di San Marino", "text": "Funivia di San Marino\n\nThe Funivia di San Marino is an aerial cable car in San Marino. The cable car runs from a lower terminus in Borgo Maggiore to the upper station in the City of San Marino. Rolled out in 1959 and modernized two times, the first in the 90's and the second in 2017, it is one of the most used means of transport to reach the capital, especially by tourists and workers. It is managed by the State Company for Public Services.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8035320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8035320", "title": "Gambian parliamentary election, 2007", "text": "Gambian parliamentary election, 2007\n\nParliamentary elections were held in the Gambia on 25 January 2007. Forty-eight members of the National Assembly were elected, with another five being appointed by the President. The result was a victory for the ruling Alliance for Patriotic Reorientation and Construction (APRC), which won 42 of the 48 seats.\n\nAfter the elections, President Yahya Jammeh said that \"constituencies that voted the opposition should not expect my government's development projects. I want to teach people that opposition in Africa does not pay.\" He expressed satisfaction with the results and said that \"voters have thrown out the two empty barrels from the National Assembly\"; this was believed to be a reference to the defeat of two prominent opposition politicians, Halifa Sallah and Hamat Bah. Salleh blamed the opposition's poor performance on a split in its ranks and said that he intended to retire from politics.\n\nA total of 103 candidates were approved by the Independent Electoral Commission. The ruling APRC was the only party to contest all 48 seats, and ran unopposed in five constituencies.\n"}
{"id": "52156008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52156008", "title": "Ghoufi", "text": "Ghoufi\n\nGhoufi is a historic settlement in the Batna Province, Algeria.\n"}
{"id": "55792983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55792983", "title": "Hansawelle", "text": "Hansawelle\n\nHansawelle \"(Radio Bremen 1 – Hansawelle)\" was a German, public radio station owned and operated by the Radio Bremen (RB).\n"}
{"id": "21487677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21487677", "title": "Hoa Cam Concrete", "text": "Hoa Cam Concrete\n\nHoa Cam Concrete JSC (CTCP Bê tông Hoà Cầm; HASTC:HCC) is a construction materials company in Vietnam, specializing in the manufacture and distribution of concrete, cement, sand and stone. It has participated in major construction projects including hydropower plants, electriciy transmission networks and office buildings. Hoa Cam is located in Da Nang and its main markets are Da Nang Province, Quảng Nam Province and Dung Quat Economic Zone of the South Central Coast region. It is listed on the Hanoi Securities Trading Center.\n\n\n\"See External links.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "37949038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37949038", "title": "Hrad (castle)", "text": "Hrad (castle)\n\nHrad is the Czech and Slovak word for \"castle\" and is commonly used as a part of castle name, e.g. \"Pražský hrad\" (Prague Castle), \"Spišský hrad\" (Spiš Castle), or \"Bratislavský hrad\" (Bratislava Castle). When spelt with capital letter H, it refers to Prague Castle, and is usually used metonymically to refer to the Czech (or, historically, Czechoslovak) government.\n\n"}
{"id": "3142715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3142715", "title": "Ilergetes", "text": "Ilergetes\n\nThe Ilergetes were an ancient Iberian (Pre-Roman) people of the Iberian peninsula (the Roman Hispania) who dwelt in the plains area of the rivers Segre and Cinca towards Iberus (Ebro) river, and in and around Ilerda/Iltrida, present-day Lleida/Lérida. They are believed to have spoken the Iberian language.\n\nIndibilis, king or chief of the Ilergetes, resisted against the Carthaginian and Roman invasions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15657169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15657169", "title": "In Search for Khnum", "text": "In Search for Khnum\n\nIn Search for Khnum, a novel by writer and Egyptologist Hussein Bassir, is the first book with a Pharaonic setting among contemporary Egyptian literature in the style of ‘90s generation’. It is arguably the first work of his own literary style and also his first experiment in regenerating the Pharaonic inspiration for modern Egyptian belles-lettres following the innovations of Naguib Mahfouz that were published in the first half of the twentieth century.\n\nThis novel was published at the start of 1998 by the Egyptian organization of the Department of Culture. The reception which it received from readers and critics since its appearance has meant that it became out of print in record time.\n\nThe events of the novel take place in Ancient Egypt and in particular during the transitional period after the New Kingdom, towards the start of the Third Intermediate Period, during the 21st Dynasty (c. 1070-945 BC). At this time, Egypt was ruled by the High Priests of the god Amun-Ra, who dwelt in the traditional capital Thebes, which was also known as Waset in ancient times, and is known today as Luxor. This period is known as one of theocratic rule, due to the religious nature of the governments’ authority. Among historians, this is considered one of the rare times when ancient Egypt was directly controlled by the high priests. There was also a civil government who very probably had family ties with Pharaoh Ramses XI (c. 1099-1069 BC), the last king of the last dynasty of the New Kingdom (c. 1539-1070 BC), also known as the Imperial age or (by Egyptologists) as the 20th Dynasty (1186-1069 BC).\n\nWith the end of the so-called New Kingdom, Egypt lost much of the power, prestige and domination that she had enjoyed earlier. Beyond her borders, the holdings of her empire had diminished, and within the country there was anarchy for a variety of causes. The most important was the split in government between the north and the south. The north was managed by Smendes, the governor of Tanis, a town in the eastern Delta, while the south was managed by the High Priest of Amun-Ra, Herihor, resident at Thebes. The events of the Tale of Wenamun are a good example of the decline in Egyptian possessions as defined by territories and states that characterized this period. In his tale Wenamun leaves the temple of Amun-Re at Thebes to acquire wood from the eastern coastal region of the Mediterranean which had previously been under Egyptian control for several centuries, in order to build a sacred bark for this god. During the dangerous journey the hero of this tale, Wenamun, experiences numerous difficulties: he is driven from one of the towns he visits and is once even threatened with death. All of these unfortunate events show how serious the situation of Egypt is at this time. The events of In Search of Khnum take place in this historical context. In a narrative framework, the author describes an imaginary situation that takes place in precisely this period of Ancient Egyptian history. It is thus not a real or even an experienced history, as was the case with the Pharaonic writings of the very great novelist Naguib Mahfouz: Khufu’s Wisdom, Rhadopis of Nubia, Thebes at War, Before the Throne, . \n\nIn consequence this story takes place in ancient Egypt to reconstruct the reality and to observe it rather than reproducing it. At the same time, this novel is not only concerned with past time, but also reflects a diaphanous shadow on the present with a skillful literary talent. It is a novel that is as engaged with the present as it is associated with the past and with the fundamental aim of declaring itself optimistic for the future. What is truly remarkable about this literary work is its surprising capacity to reconstruct the Egyptian past and dwell on its details without bombarding the reader with subjects and historical events, and without compromising the truth of this distant period. Thus the history of Ancient Egypt is presented in such a literary and artistic manner that it confirms art’s true role and incredible capacity in preserving and reanimating cultural heritage. The author also knows how to renew and refashion this heritage in an engaging style which allows the observer to view it with a fresh eye, and both to enrich his thoughts about life and to deepen his knowledge of literature. It is not an easy matter to create a setting similar to the ambiance of the period’s chronicles, and this is what gives this work its originality and brilliance. The author’s style gives the novel its splendor to the novel, since he is a specialist in Egyptology and has a passion to make this science both his career and the subject of his writing.\n"}
{"id": "52191666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52191666", "title": "International Alert", "text": "International Alert\n\nInternational Alert is an independent international peacebuilding organization, operating programs around the world to address conflict. Its mission is to build a more peaceful world by: working with people directly affected by conflict to find peaceful solutions; shaping policies and practices to support peace; and collaborating with those striving for peace. Alert accomplishes these goals through dialogue, training, research and policy analysis, advocacy and outreach activities.\n\nInternational Alert is headquarters in London, but also has a European office in The Hague. This NGO maintains about 250 staff in nineteen countries. These experts work with over 800 partner organizations on projects to advance conflict resolution, support human rights, and build a more peaceful future. Alert’s main geographic areas of operation are Africa, Asia and the Middle East, but it is also supporting peace activities in Colombia, the Caucasus and Ukraine.\n\nHarriet Lamb became Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in 2015. Before that Lamb was CEO of the United Kingdom Fairtrade Foundation for over a decade. The chairman of Alert’s Board of Trustees is retired US ambassador Carey Cavanaugh, a former peace mediator. \nIn 1985 the Standing International Forum on Ethnic Conflict, Development and Human Rights (SIFEC) was founded with the purpose of addressing the issue of conflict and to alert governments and the world to developing crises. The following year, SIFEC merged with another organization, International Alert on Genocide and Massacres, to become International Alert (IA). Alert was founded in 1986 by Leo Kuper, Michael Young, Martin Ennals and Luis Kutner in response to growing frustration in the international development and human rights community that internal conflicts were impeding the ability to protect and provide for civilian populations and that there was no effective international mechanism to address this situation. International Alert undertook to advance research on the causes of such conflict and to promote all means of conciliation and resolution, becoming an early advocate of multitrack diplomacy. From its first days, the conflict in Sri Lanka was a particular focus. Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the former Archbishop of Cape Town was engaged in the formation of the formation of the new organization and became Vice Chairman of its Board of Trustees.\nMartin Ennals, the former Secretary General of Amnesty International and founder of Article 19, served as Secretary General of the new organization. From 1986-1989, Ennals was International Alert’s only full-time staff member. He was joined by Andy Carl (later the founder of Conciliation Resources, who managed IA from 1992-1993 following Ennals’ death. Alert expanded rapidly in 1994-1996 under the leadership of Kumar Rupesinghe, growing to over 50 staff with major programs in Sri Lanka, Burundi, and Sierra Leone. By 1998 Alert had a budget of approximately UK£5 million and 80 staff, managing programs in over 15 countries in conflict. Dan Smith, now Secretary General of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute served as Secretary General from 2003-2015. In 2015, Harriet Lamb became International Alert’s current CEO.\n\nInternational Alert’s board of trustees is composed of the following members: Carey Cavanaugh, Chris Deri, Padma Jyoti, Oliver Kemp, Helena Puig Larrauri, Gordana Duspara Moriarty, Alaa Murabit, Lisa L. Rose, Dhananjayan Sriskandarajah, Gregor Stewart, and Carol Allen Storey. Cavanaugh became chair of the board in 2018.\n\nInternational Alert was an early advocate for the development of conflict early warning systems. Its work on gender and peacebuilding was important in establishing the necessity of incorporating gender relations and female stakeholders in conflict early warning systems.\n\nBy the early 1990s, International Alert was using the HURIDOCS database in conjunction with early Internet conferencing systems, to enable it to keep abreast of and interact with \"local and international nongovernmental organizations and international experts.\" Through the mid-1990s, by applying a combination of manual and automated analysis in conjunction with such systems, researchers collaborating with International Alert performed early data mining research, demonstrating the viability of this approach for predicting conflict outcomes and encouraging the development of a website for the African Union's Continental Early Warning System (CEWS).\n\nIn 2001, as part of International Alert's \"Women Building Peace\" campaign, the organisation collaborated with the United Nations Development Fund for Women awarded a Millennium Peace Prize for Women.\n\nIn 2015 and 2016, International Alert organised a series of hackathons called Peacehack, exploring ways information technology might be used to reduce conflict by discouraging hate speech.\n"}
{"id": "13742793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13742793", "title": "Judith of Brittany", "text": "Judith of Brittany\n\nJudith of Brittany, also called Judith of Rennes (982–1017), was Duchess of Normandy from until her death.\n\nJudith, born in 982, was the daughter of Conan I, Duke of Brittany and Ermengarde-Gerberga of Anjou. She was the mother of Robert I, Duke of Normandy and paternal grandmother of William the Conqueror.\n\nShe was a part of an important double marriage alliance between Normandy and Brittany first recorded by William of Jumièges. In 996 her brother Geoffrey I, Duke of Brittany married Hawise of Normandy, daughter of Richard I, Duke of Normandy while in c. 1000 Judith married Richard II, Duke of Normandy, Hawise's brother. The duchess Judith died on 28 August 1017 and was buried in the abbey of Bernay, which she had founded in 1013.\n\nJudith married Richard II, Duke of Normandy . They had six children:\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "5348105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5348105", "title": "Kamenny Island Theatre", "text": "Kamenny Island Theatre\n\nThe Kamenny Island Theatre (also known as the Stone Island Theatre, in Russian: Каменноостровский театр) is a wooden theatre on the grounds of the Kamennoostrovsky Palace, Kamenny Island, Saint Petersburg, Russia. It is the only surviving wooden theatre in St. Petersburg, and one of the few remaining in Europe. The theatre is a world heritage site protected by UNESCO.\n\nSince 2005, the theatre is home to a second stage of the Bolshoi Drama.\n\nThe theatre was built in 1826 to a design by Smaragd Shustov in just 40 days. The building was intended to stand for seven years, but it survived much more. In 1843, Alberto Cavos was commissioned to develop a new project. Reconstruction of the theatre has principally changes the building's outlook, but the auditorium received only minor changes. In 1964-1967, the venue was restorated according to a project overseen by Irina Benois. Although the facade of the theatre was kept intact, the auditorium was completely rearranged. After the reconstruction, the theatre was made property of the St. Petersburg Television Company. In 2005, a decree of the President of Russia has transferred the Kamenny Island Theatre to the Bolshoi Drama Theatre. Extensive renovation took place in between 2005 and 2012, when the theatre has opened as the second stage of the Bolshoi Drama.\n"}
{"id": "23246309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23246309", "title": "Korni", "text": "Korni\n\nKorni (, \"Roots\") is a Russian pop rock band. They rose to fame when they won best band on the show \"Star Factory-1\". The Band members include: Pavel Artemyev (bass guitar), Alexandr Astashenok (guitar), Alexandr Berdnikov (vocal), and Alexey Kabanov (keyboards).\n\nKorni was created by Pavel Artemyev and Igor Matvienko. The band started with the single \"We Will Rock You\", which is a cover of the same name originally from the band Queen. The album \"Na veka\" (На века, \"For centuries\") was in a europop style along with blues and rap. Their following album \"Dnevniki\" (Дневники, \"Diaries\") contained more of an alternative rock and electronic style. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "29360126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29360126", "title": "Kurantbanken", "text": "Kurantbanken\n\nThe Kurantbanken (also known as the københavnske Assignationsbanken, Vekselbanken or Laanebankbanken) was a Danish-Norwegian private limited company set up in Copenhagen in 1736, when it received its royal \"oktroj\" or charter. This charter gave it the right to issue banknotes as legal tender for the state (but not for other citizens) - these notes were to be fully convertible (for silver coin).\n"}
{"id": "12637004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12637004", "title": "Lee Abrams", "text": "Lee Abrams\n\nLee Abrams (born 1952) is an American media executive who has held a number of posts for large and influential companies, and is generally credited with developing the Album Oriented Rock format employed by hundreds of radio stations across the country, as well as co-founding XM Satellite Radio.\n\nBorn in Chicago, Abrams became a radio DJ. He pioneered systematic audience research and psychographics, connecting people's lifestyles to their listening habits. He modified the album-oriented rock music format, or AOR, from a looser, freeform style to a tighter form, using playlists rather than allowing DJs the freedom to play anything they chose from albums. This followed the evolution in the late 1960s and 1970s from the music industry's focus on singles to albums. Some of his other work at this time included numerous voice-overs, notably the introduction commentary in \"Let's Talk About Me\" from the 1984 Alan Parsons Project album, \"Vulture Culture\". Abrams co-founded XM Satellite Radio and served as Chief Programming Officer at that company until his departure in 2008. More recently Abrams was the chief innovation officer for the Tribune Company (2008–2010) but prior to that, founded and ran notable radio consulting company Burkhart/Abrams, served as an internal consultant for ABC Radio, and helped develop nationwide radio formats such as Z-Rock and Radio Disney.\n\nAdditionally, he has been involved on the recording side of the music industry, producing Ah Via Musicom for guitarist Eric Johnson and appearing on several Alan Parsons Project CDs. He has also consulted and managed acts such as Yes, The Moody Blues, Steve Winwood, Iron Maiden and Bob Seger.\n\n\"Newsweek\" listed Abrams as one of their \"100 Cultural Elite\" in 1993, and he was cited by industry publication Radio Ink as one of the 75 most important radio figures of all time.\n\nAbrams was inducted into the Rock Radio Hall of Fame in the \"Legends of Rock Radio-Programming\" category for his work with WRIF in 2014.\n\nOn October 15, 2010, Abrams resigned from Tribune Company following revelations that he wrote an email to staff with a link to a video that some within the company considered offensive.\n\nThat same day, \"New York Times\" public editor Arthur S Brisbane published an editorial questioning his paper's use of anonymous sourcing as one of the \"load bearing\" elements of the story, particularly as it was a \"sensational episode\" in a story about a competitor.\n\nOn October 19, 2010, Forbes reporter Jeff Bercovici published an email from Abrams defending himself, including some specifics not included in mainstream coverage, notably, that the video was from parody site \"The Onion\" and that it had been previously shown at a \"Chicago Tribune\" sales meeting to a positive reaction.\n\n"}
{"id": "15339838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15339838", "title": "List of development aid country donors", "text": "List of development aid country donors\n\nInternational development aid is given by many non-private donors. The first table is based on official development assistance (ODA) figures published by the OECD for members of its Development Assistance Committee (DAC). Non-DAC members included in the OECD's publishing are listed separately.\n\nSweden made the largest contribution as a percentage of gross national income (GNI) at 1.40% and the United Nations’ ODA target of 0.7% of GNI was also exceeded by the UAE, Norway, Luxembourg, Denmark, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. The European Union accumulated a higher portion of GDP as a form of foreign aid than any other economic union. The largest donor countries in 2015 were the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan and France, though China, acting outside the DAC apparatus, made higher donations overall than any individual country, with more than double the GNI percentage of the United States. \n\nTo qualify as official development assistance, a contribution must contain three elements:\n\nThus, by definition, ODA does not include private donations. \n\nThe sum of contributions by EU member states, considered separately from EU institutions, was $73.80 billion.\nThe OECD's Development Assistance Committee members' total budget reached 132 billion dollars and was contributed by the following donors:\n\nNon-DAC members reported the following figures:\nThe OECD also lists Development Assistance Committee members by the amount of ODA they spend as a percentage of their gross national income:\n\n\nNon-DAC members reported the following figures \n\nNotes:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36888531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36888531", "title": "Lomsko shose Metro Station", "text": "Lomsko shose Metro Station\n\nLomsko shose Metro Station () is a station on the Sofia Metro in Sofia, Bulgaria. It was put into operation on August 31, 2012. Bulgaria's PM Boyko Borisov and the President of the European Commission Jose Manuel Barroso inaugurated the new section of the Sofia Metro, which was largely funded with EU money.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15497293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15497293", "title": "Maher (god)", "text": "Maher (god)\n\nMaher or Mahrem is a god of the Aksumites and the Himyarites. He was the son of the main god Ashtar, and his counterpart was Beher, god of the sea. He was the deity of war, comparable to Mars or Ares in ancient Greek mythology, who used both forms of the interpretatio. The God \"Maher\" (or Mahrem) held a place of special importance with the Axumites; the gods of the pagan period were all called the Sons of the Invincible Mahrem.\n\n"}
{"id": "41207177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41207177", "title": "Malabar Radio Station", "text": "Malabar Radio Station\n\nMalabar Radio Station was a VLF radio telegraphic transmitter in Malabar, Indonesia ( coordinates: ), for a radio link to the Netherlands. It used one of the most powerful arc transmitters ever built, which had a power of 2400 kW. Malabar Radio Station used a wire spun between two mountains as an antenna.\n"}
{"id": "1718421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1718421", "title": "People's Democratic Organisation for Independence and Socialism", "text": "People's Democratic Organisation for Independence and Socialism\n\nThe People's Democratic Organisation for Independence and Socialism (PDOIS) is a radical socialist political party in the Gambia. Since 2005, it has been part of the National Alliance for Democracy and Development (NADD). It was part of Coalition 2016 in the 2016 presidential election, whose candidate, Adama Barrow, defeated long-time incumbent Yahya Jammeh. The PDOIS also publishes a party newspaper, \"Foroyaa\", which was noted for its opposition to the Jammeh regime.\n\nThe People's Democratic Organisation for Independence and Socialism (PDOIS) was founded on 31 July 1986. It emerged from an earlier group, the People’s Movement for Independence against Neo-Colonialism and Capitalism in The Gambia (PMINCC), whose members included Halifa Sallah, Sam Sarr, Amie Sillah, Adama Bah and Momodou Sarho. The PMINCC were also believed to be the publishers of the newspaper \"The Voice of the Future\", and six members were put on trial for its publication in 1984, although all were acquitted.\n\nInitially, the PDOIS had no official leader until December 1997, when Sidia Jatta was chosen as its first leader. It began publishing its own newspaper, \"Foroyaa\", in July 1987, where it was critical of the pro-Western foreign policy of Dawda Jawara, and opposed the Senegambia Confederation. In 1987, it put forward five candidates in the parliamentary election, but all were defeated. In 1992, it put forward 14 candidates, but again, all were defeated. Jatta stood in the presidential election that year, and came fourth, winning 5.24% of the vote. The PDOIS was not banned following the 1994 coup by Yahya Jammeh as it did not publicly denounce it, but both Jatta and Sallah turned down the cabinet posts they were offered.\n\nJatta won 3% of the vote in the 1996 and 2001 presidential elections. In the 1997 parliamentary election, Jatta won their first seat in the National Assembly of Wuli West. In 2002, Jatta retained the seat and Sallah additionally won the seat of Serekunda Central. From 2002 to 2007, PDOIS was the largest opposition party in the National Assembly, and Sallah served as Leader of the Opposition. In 2005, the PDOIS joined the National Alliance for Democracy and Development (NADD), and Sallah was selected as the NADD candidate in the 2006 presidential election, but only won 6% of the vote. In the 2007 parliamentary election, NADD only won one seat, Jatta's, with Sallah losing his.\n\nThe party is led by a Central Committee, which is the highest working body of the party. It is composed of the following positions:\n\n"}
{"id": "39318477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39318477", "title": "Peski, Brest Voblast", "text": "Peski, Brest Voblast\n\nPeski (, ) is a village in Belarus. It is located in the Kamianiec district, Brest Province, 338 km south of the capital Minsk.\n\n"}
{"id": "3810776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3810776", "title": "Proglas", "text": "Proglas\n\nProglas (Old Church Slavonic Glagolitic ⰒⰓⰑⰃⰎⰀⰔⰟ, Cyrillic Прогласъ; meaning \"Foreword\") is the foreword to the Old Church Slavonic translation of the four Gospels. It was written by Saint Cyril in 863-867 in Great Moravia (present day Moravia and Slovakia). Proglas is considered to be the first poem in literary Old Church Slavonic.\n\n"}
{"id": "9029156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9029156", "title": "Silvestre Siale Bileka", "text": "Silvestre Siale Bileka\n\nSilvestre Siale Bileka (born 1939?) is an Equato-Guinean politician. Bileka served as Prime Minister from 4 March 1992 to 1 April 1996. He is a member of the Partido Democrático de Guinea Ecuatorial (Democratic Party of Equatorial Guinea). Bileka also served as President of the Supreme Court, tendering his resignation to President Teodoro Obiang Nguema in January 2004. The official reason for his resignation was \"not being able to reach the desired result in terms of improvement of the operation of the judiciary\". He was the first senior state official to resign, as the President usually instead simply dismissed his colleagues.\n"}
{"id": "22159252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22159252", "title": "Sirasa FM", "text": "Sirasa FM\n\nSirasa FM is one of the leading radio stations in Sri Lankan radio arena. Launched the test transmission on December 1993, and official launch took place on 2 March 1994. Sirasa FM had the very latest digital technology, latest transmission equipment & the DJ style broadcasting studios – a totally new concept to Sri Lanka.\n\nSirasa FM was the first to launch a pure Sinhala radio channel with crystal-clear reception island-wide. It was the first to launch a non-stop 24 hours transmission in Sri Lanka. It was the first to launch interactive radio programs with listeners over the phone and the first to go on-line with a webcast to become the first ever worldwide Sinhala radio station in the world.\n\nRadio was at the verge of a natural death because of the strong Television industry; Singapore Telecom (Call Link) & Capital Maharajah took a bold step along with the novel leadership, and concepts of Mr.Nimal Laxapathiarachchi in launching Sirasa FM. Only Pirith & News was heard on radio. But Sirasa FM was the turnaround brand of this dying industry, and gave life to many more competitors to arrive in to the market. Today, it has the highest number of competitors compared to any other media in both printed and electronic manner.\nSirasa FM has been rated as the most popular radio station from the inception of National Media Survey in Sri Lanka.\n\nSirasa FM is the pinnacle of the media arm of MBC / MTV media operations.\n\nSirasa FM commenced its transmissions on 2 March 1994 as the first privately owned Sinhala language radio station in Sri Lanka. It is now fully owned by Maharaja Broadcasting Corporation Private Limited after the acquisition of shares owned by the Singapore Telecom.Sirasa FM had the very latest Digital technology, latest transmission equipments & the DJ style broadcasting studios – a totally new concept to Sri Lanka. Sirasa FM first to launch a pure Sinhala radio channel with crystal clear reception islandwide.\n\nSirasa FM Official Website: http://www.sirasa.com/\n\nOther Streams : \n1. Tunein : http://tunein.com/radio/Sirasa-FM-1065-s25231/\n2. http://listenfms.com/sirasa-fm-sri-lanka-radio-listen-live-online/\nMBC Networks - The Capital Maharaja Organisation Limited: https://web.archive.org/web/20130802144914/http://www.capitalmaharaja.lk/index.php/our-companies/mbc-networks.html\n"}
{"id": "33643908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33643908", "title": "Sports Tracker", "text": "Sports Tracker\n\nSports Tracker, earlier \"Nokia Sports Tracker\" was originally a software tool for Symbian Series 60 phones (particularly those that included a GPS facility such as the Nokia N95, or bluetooth phones with the addition of a bluetooth-compatible GPS receiver) that allowed its user to track their route, speed, timings and energy expenditure, while engaging in a sport activity such as running, jogging or cycling.\n\nNokia announced that Nokia Sports Tracker was closed in June 2010, but the application was continued by Sports Tracking Technologies Ltd. simply as \"Sports Tracker\", which was set up by three people from the team in Nokia. It is now available for iPhone, Android and Windows Phone devices and allows its user to track and analyze their performance, and to share workout data and photos with its friends.\n\nOn 4 May 2015, Amer Sports announced having acquired Sports Tracker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55702333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55702333", "title": "Telstar 19V", "text": "Telstar 19V\n\nTelstar 19V \"(Telstar 19 Vantage)\" is a communication satellite in the Telstar series of the Canadian satellite communications company Telesat. It was built by Space Systems Loral (MAXAR) and is based on the SSL-1300 bus. The satellite was designed to provide additional capacity over the North Atlantic region. As of 26 July 2018, Telstar 19V is the heaviest commercial communications satellite ever launched, weighing at 7,076 kg (15,600 lbs) and surpassing the previous record, set by TerreStar-1 (6,910 kg/15230lbs), launched by Ariane 5ECA on 1 July 2009.\n\nTelstar 19V was launched on a SpaceX Falcon 9 Block 5 rocket into geostationary transfer orbit (GTO) from Space Launch Complex 40 (SLC40) at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Space Coast, Florida, United States, on 22 July 2018 at 1:50 AM EDT (5:50 UTC). The rocket core landed on the autonomous spaceport drone ship \"Of Course I still Love You\" about eight and a half minutes after launch.\n\n"}
{"id": "52792685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52792685", "title": "TiVi5 Monde", "text": "TiVi5 Monde\n\nTiVi5 Monde (), stylized as TiVi5 MONDE, is a television channel launched at the end of January 2012 by the Francophone channel TV5 Monde, which is aimed mainly to French-speaking African children (4–13 years). The objective of the channel is to teach French to young children through dedicated programs.\n\nTivi5Monde is the first American channel and the only one to date targeting only children with a 24/7 program entirely in French. This new channel is available on Dish Network and is part of the \"Bouquet français\" offering TV5 Monde.\n\nOn , TiVi5 Monde, the TV5 Monde channel dedicated to children, is launched in Africa. Already broadcast in the United States since 2012, it is now hosting African productions and broadcasting in some forty countries over Africa.\n\nWhile TV5 Monde targets adults, TiVi5 Monde targets children. \"In order to children choose French, it is necessary to support this language in Africa\", explains Yves Bigot, CEO of TV5 Monde.\n\nThe channel started broadcasting free-to-air on the SES4 satellite and is made accessible on channel 274 of Canalsat Horizons. It is sponsored by Dominique Ouattara, first lady of Côte d'Ivoire and president of the Children of Africa Foundation.\n\nThe content already offered by TiVi5 Monde to young Americans since 2012 has not changed, with only one difference: 12% of the productions broadcast are African.\n\nThe channel had however to be satisfied with a modest budget. The initially announced amount of 1.4 million euros has been revised downwards as several expected financings have not arrived. It is therefore necessary to find a rational economic model : the channel's responsibles decided to pool TiVi5 Monde Afrique with that already active in the United States. The same programs are broadcast on both continents.\n\nTiVi5 Monde airs educational programs, cartoons, children's series and games. Starting 2012, 12% of the productions broadcast in the channel are African. All the programs are 100% French-speaking; the channel doesn't make any French dubbing of American series. Its programs both playful and educational are broadcast without advertising.\n\nThis is a list of the programs formerly or currently broadcast on the channel:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14218804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14218804", "title": "Union of Democratic Forces (Republic of the Congo)", "text": "Union of Democratic Forces (Republic of the Congo)\n\nThe Union of Democratic Forces (\"Union des Forces Démocratiques\") is a political party in the Republic of the Congo, founded in 1991 by Charles David Ganao. In the parliamentary election held on June 24 and August 5, 2007, the party won 1 out of 137 seats.\n\nThe party is led by Josué Rodrigue Ngouonimba, Minister of Constructions since 2017.\n"}
{"id": "2703246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2703246", "title": "United Platform", "text": "United Platform\n\nThe United Platform (, PU) was a political alliance in Guinea-Bissau.\n\nThe PU was established in 2003 as an alliance of the Democratic Convergence Party, the Democratic Front, the Democratic Social Front, FLING and the Solidarity and Work Party, and was led by Hélder Vaz Lopes, a former leader of the Resistance of Guinea-Bissau-Bafatá Movement. A co-founder was his cousin Zinha Vaz.\n\nThe alliance received 4.5% of the vote in the 2004 parliamentary elections, but failed to win a seat. The PU did not nominate a candidate for the 2005 presidential elections, but supported runner-up Malam Bacai Sanhá of the PAIGC. The PU was dissolved before the 2008 parliamentary elections.\n"}
{"id": "1168013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168013", "title": "Wirtschaftsphysik", "text": "Wirtschaftsphysik\n\nWirtschaftsphysik is a relatively new course of studies, introduced at the University of Ulm in 1997. The name might be translated into English by Econophysics but it is questionable if both terms mean the same thing.\nIt is composed of studies in Physics, Economics, Computer Science and Mathematics. In the first two years, the emphasis is on Physics and Mathematics but after the Bachelor Economics and Computer Science become more important.\nIn comparison to regular physics students, Wirtschaftsphysik students have to participate in about half as many experiments in experimental physics and are only required to take three of the usual five lectures in Theoretical Physics.\n\n"}
{"id": "17639707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17639707", "title": "Šopka", "text": "Šopka\n\nThe Šopka (Шопка) is a Macedonian oro from the region of Kratovo.\n\nIt is a vivid women's dance with quick and small steps and small jumps. The dancers are holding belts and begin their dance in the position of a half circle. The dance rhythm is 2/4.\n\n\n"}
