{"id": "24186791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24186791", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Ethiopia", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Ethiopia\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Ethiopia began after `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote letters encouraging taking the religion to Africa in 1916. Probably the first Bahá'í to settle in the country came in early 1934 and with further pioneers by mid-1934, the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of the country was elected in November in Addis Ababa. In 1962, Ethiopia Bahá'ís had elected a National Spiritual Assembly. By 1963 there were seven localities with smaller groups of Bahá'ís in the country. The Association of Religion Data Archives estimated some 27000 Bahá'ís in 2005. The community celebrated its diamond jubilee in January 2009.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States and Canada in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". The eighth and twelfth of the tablets mentioned Africa and were written on April 19, 1916 and February 15, 1917, respectively. Publication however was delayed in the United States until 1919—after the end of the First World War and the Spanish flu. The tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in \"Star of the West\" magazine on December 12, 1919. `Abdu'l-Bahá mentions Bahá'ís traveling \"…especially from America to Europe, Africa, Asia and Australia, and travel through Japan and China. Likewise, from Germany teachers and believers may travel to the continents of America, Africa, Japan and China; in brief, they may travel through all the continents and islands of the globe\" and \" …the anthem of the oneness of the world of humanity may confer a new life upon all the children of men, and the tabernacle of universal peace be pitched on the apex of America; thus Europe and Africa may become vivified with the breaths of the Holy Spirit, this world may become another world, the body politic may attain to a new exhilaration….\"\n\nEarly pioneers from Egypt gathered in Addis Ababa (see Bahá'í Faith in Egypt.) The first to arrive was Sabri Elias in early 1934 who thus earned the title Knight of Bahá'u'lláh. By mid-1934 he was joined by families of Bahá'ís and in late 1934 they elected the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly. Its members were: Atto Sium Gabril, Atto Haila Gabril, Habib Boutros, Sabri Elias, Edouard Goubran, El-Saad Said, El-Saad Mansour, Abdu'llahi Ahmed, and Aurahil Egsabaihir. Sabri Elias traveled back and forth from Alexandria devoted to the work of translating and printing various materials including Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era in Amharic though he had to leave in 1935 and was able to return next in 1944 (having taken the opportunity to get married and undertake pilgrimage) due to the Second Italo-Abyssinian War. The members of the community had left and the assembly was next elected in 1945. In 1947 Ugo Giachery rendered some assistance translating materials for the community to use. In early 1951 the Ethiopian community sent its first pioneer beyond Addis Ababa. Followed by Mr. and Mrs. Elias who left for Djibouti in 1954. At the same time across the regional unit of Egypt and Abyssinia women were allowed to be and were elected according to the rules of Bahá'í administration to be members of assemblies including in Addis Ababa - members were: Mr G.M. Bahta Mrs Gila, Dr V. Kies, Sabri Elias, Mrs Sabri, Mr Alfred Shafi, Mr Birch, Sayed Mansour, and David A. Talbot. In 1952 some were elected officers - the members were Gila M. Bahta, David Talbot, Dr. V. Ries, Sabri Elias, Mrs. Gila (treasurer) Mrs. Elias Alfred Shafi, Mr. Birch Sayed Mansour.\n\nThe Bahá'í Community in Ethiopia came under the responsibility of the regional National Spiritual Assembly of Egypt and Sudan during the Ten Year Crusade in 1953. This was during a period of wide scale growth in the religion across Sub-Saharan Africa near the end of the period of Colonisation of Africa. Pioneers continued to arrive like Fred Schechter in 1954 and Dr. Amín'u'lláh Misbáh who lived there from 1955-1959. Bahá'í Holy days and Bahá'í Marriage certificates were recognized in Addis Ababa, and the assembly obtained legal incorporation in 1955-56. The community subsequently became part of the regional National Assembly of North-East Africa in 1956. A summer school in 1958 was held in Eritrea, then part of Ethiopia, hosting a significant expansion of the effort which included Bahá'ís from several cities: Addis Ababa, Gondar, Adiqualla, Massawa, Agordat, Barentu, and Asmara. The program included a variety of subjects: \"Baha'i Administration\" by Charles Hassan of Addis Ababa, \"Baha'i History\" by Dr. Hushang Ahdieh of Asmara, \"Islam\" by Mrs. Jeanne Mesbah of Asmara, \"The Laws and Ordinances of Baha'u'llah\" by Dr. Farhoumand, and \"Meditatinn\" by Dr. Walter Niederreiter. The Bahá'ís were allowed to send official observers to the first session of the Economic Commission for Africa of the United Nations held in Addis Ababa in late 1958: Gila Bahta and Charles Hassan of Addis Ababa, and Ali Nakhjavani of Kampala. They succeeded in meeting and discussing the religion with representatives to the Commission and discussing a variety of issues including the Persecution of Bahá'ís in Iran. The first Bahá'í summer school in Addis Ababa was held in May 1959 and included an observance of the \"12th Day\" of Ridván. The average attendance during the school sessions was twenty-five, and included many Bahá'ís of Addis Ababa and their non-Bahá'í friends. In 1960 a group of sixty-five, half of them guests of the Baha'is shown considerable interest in an introductory talk on the religion in Addis Ababa in the Amharic language. In 1961 events began to multiply - members of the religion reached the towns of Volisso, Bedele and Shashamane, participated in the dedication of the Bahá'í House of Worship in Uganda. and the assembly of Addis Ababa oversaw the first Bahá'í marriage. Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga travelled extensively in East Africa in 1962 including Ethiopia by which time Ethiopia Bahá'ís had elected a National Spiritual Assembly. The same year a Bahá'í Ethiopian student studying in Germany was elected president of the non-partisan Ethiopian Student Union. By 1963 in addition to the assembly in Addis Ababa there were seven communities with smaller groups of Bahá'ís in Adua, Alemaya, Debre Zeyit, Dessie, Dire Dawa, Gondar & Jimma and twelve isolated members in other communities. And also in 1963 in a step of recognition of the religion the city government of Addis Ababa allocated land for use as a Bahá'í burial ground.\n\nThe Sudan/Egypt regional National Assembly existed until 1953 when it became a regional assembly for North East Africa. This included French Somaliland; Egypt, Sudan, Abyssinia, Libya, Eritrea, British Somaliland; Italian Somaliland; and Socotra Is. The regional assembly was again re-organized when the institutions of the religion were made illegal in Egypt in 1960 and again when Sudan, Somalia and Ethiopia formed their own regional assembly in 1968 with members: Gila Michael Bahta, Dr. Leo Neiderreitter, Gamal Rushdy, Asfaw Tessema, Dr. Heshmat Farhoumand, Dr. Hushang Ahdieh, Ursula Samandari, Assefaw Habte Michael and Rabbi Teele Mariam. From 1968 into 69 there were a number of initiatives undertaken including reaching to outlying areas, international speakers and a winter school.\n\nFrom 1969 to 1973 Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum travelled through many countries including Ethiopia. She arrived in Ethiopia October 15 and spent a month touring the Bahá'í communities with coverage by print and, for the first time in Ethiopia radio, news outlets on her arrival. She was received by Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia the same day. In the half-hour interview she communicated how she had long admired him because of the way he had conducted himself in the face of the many trials and hardships of his life, and by the way he had overcome them. Selassie gave her a gold medal from his Coronation. In the days afterwards she was escorted by civic authorities to Genet where a regional conference was held, in part to celebrate the Bahá'í holy day of the Birth of the Báb, and dedicated the Banáni Teaching Institute. Villagers surprised the guests with a dance they had not shared previously and sung Bahá'í songs with English words - a language foreign to them - with clarity enough to be understood. At a stop in another village a couple local Muslim leaders converted to the religion in her presence. On return to Addis Ababa Rúhíyyih Khanum and some Ethiopian Bahá'ís were received by Princess Tenagnework Worke Haile Selassie and her daughter Princess Seble Desta. The following day the Bahá'í community sponsored an observance of United Nations Day with a public lecture by a member of the United Nations Secretariat stationed in Ethiopia, prefaced by remarks by Rúhíyyih Khanum who was able to first present the Bahá'í attitude toward, and relationship with, the United Nations. The following day she flew to the Province of Harrari where she was received by the provincial governor, though she fell ill and a member of the national assembly flew her to Assab to recoup. Then in Eritrea she addressed audiences of government servants, school principals and teachers, and a women's organization on topics of science and religion, the place of a religious morality and the civilizing role of women, often with questions from the audiences often late into the night. Later, in discussion with Prince Asrate Medhin Kassa it became known that while in exhile some years earlier he had borrowed and read a copy of Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era in Amharic that had been given to the Emperor. Rúhíyyih Khanum then toured ancient sites of Ethiopia, Axum and Lalibela. Then she went to Gondar where Bahá'ís had recently been attacked and then detained in circumstances soon implicating a local priest. The uproar over the event was such that another priest and several others converted to the religion. On return to Addis Ababa the Israeli Ambassador held a formal dinner in her honor. The next three nights she spoke to Bahá'í audiences and then celebrated the Bahá'í holy day of the Birth of Bahá'u'lláh and the trip to see the Bahá'ís of Sebeta. On the last return to Addis Ababa Crown Prince Asfaw Wossen received her then she resumed her tour of Africa by going next to Kenya.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern. That involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics even then. In 1970 representatives from seven National Spiritual Assemblies in Africa and from the Bahá'í International Community were the largest delegation to the first African Conference of Non-Governmental Organizations held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Of the 104 Non-Governmental Organization delegates and observers attending - representing seventy-four organizations from twenty countries in Africa- ten were Baha'is; and two Bahá'í representatives were the only participants from Mauritius and Swaziland. With background work in New York, preparatory work in Addis Ababa, and large participation by Bahá'ís, they received praise for their efforts and dependability by the NGO liaison representative of the Ethiopian government and by other UN personnel. A senior officer for the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa was the speaker at the gathering sponsored by the National Spiritual Assembly of North East Africa in Asmara late in 1973 to commemorate the 125th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. He spoke at length about the role of the Bahá'ís and like-minded organizations. He repeated his sentiments in 1980. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482.The modern Bahá'í community of Ethiopia has multiplied its interests internally and externally along these lines.\n\nIn 1969 there was one assembly in the Sidamo Province of south central Ethiopia, 18 in 1972 and 59 in 1974. In 1975 a total of seventy Local Spiritual Assemblies formed. A cultural clash in choosing leadership happened under such quick growth. People of Sidamo were used to an open atmosphere when choosing their leaders and had difficulty adjusting to secret ballot as normal in Bahá'í electoral process. Nevertheless, the elections went forward and materials and classes were held covering the issues though human resources were thin under such rapid growth. Observers concluded that in 1975 things had gone well. In 1978 the Nure community organized and managed a local conference, and believers from other villages chaired the sessions. Succeeding local conferences were to be held in villages of Mudane and Dereba. In northern Ethiopia fighting had broken out. At one meeting Bahá'ís were inundated by refugee neighbors in an apartment building from shots fired. When the police arrived the Bahá'ís were vindicated from fears of cooperation in the attack when the chief of police discovered Bahá'ís were involved. He summoned his aides to help the wounded, apologetically made a purely ceremonial inspection of the house, and let them go, explaining that there was no need to investigate the Bahá'ís, that he knew the Bahá'ís were not a source of danger and he entertained no doubts about them. There are other stories of activities of small groups of Bahá'ís. In 1976 the first Baha'i newsletter in the Amharic language began publication. Sabri Elias, founder of the community in Ethiopia, and his wife, returned in 1977 for the national convention before flying on back to Djibouti.\n\nForty-two Bahá'ís from Ethiopia attended a regional conference called for by the Universal House of Justice in 2008 held in Johannesburg. The North American Temple Bahá'í choir went to Addis Ababa in January 2009 for the 75th anniversary of the Bahá'í Faith in Ethiopia and sang at Holy Trinity Cathedral of Ethiopia, the Ethiopian National Museum and the Ethiopian National Theatre. Members of the choir flew in from U.S., Canada, Australia and Africa. Speakers at the diamond jubilee included Ali Nakhjavani and his wife Violette Nakhjavani.\n\nIn the 1990s a \"Racism Dance\" was translated by an Ethiopian Bahá'í Youth Workshop (see Oscar DeGruy) which addressed racial, national/ethnic prejudices and was used to talk about war between Eritrea and Ethiopia. There was a 2007 Ethiopian-Eritrean Bahá'í Conference held in the United States.\n\nAmong the Bahá'í teachings is the importance of education. In 1980 the National Assembly of Auxiliary Board consulted on a project for the International Year of the Child. They developed the project \"Ha Hu in Nine Days,\" which was designed to help an illiterate person learn the Amharic alphabet in only nine days. It was presented to UNESCO representative in Ethiopia and liaison officer for the UN Economic Commission for Africa followed by the Minister of Education and chairman of the National Commission for IYC. Each meeting had a reporter from the English-language newspaper, \"The Ethiopian Herald\". An experimental garden was set up in Sidamo Province as a demonstration field in the compound of the regional center to train Bahá'í farmers in improved agricultural techniques. In 1989 a Bahá'í expert and businessman in using appropriate technology from Swaziland traveled through six southern and eastern African countries including Ethiopia training local people in the manufacture of several kinds of fence-making machines and other technologies in building, agriculture and water programs. The 10-day training courses were organized by the National Spiritual Assemblies in each of the six countries. Dr. Fisseha Eshetu, the President of Unity University, a Bahá'í inspired school, received a \"Global Young Entrepreneur\" award at the 7th World Summit of Young Entrepreneurs in 2000 after founding the institution in 1991. In 2001 Eshetu has taken positions on the development of the internet in Ethiopia. Unity University was the first private institution of higher education to open in Ethiopia, and as of 2001 the journalism program was the only university-level independent journalism program in the country. \"Tsehai Loves Learning\" is a television show of a hand puppet in the Amharic language. There are about 45 local children's classes being offered currently by Bahá'í communities in Ethiopia - more prominent schools are the School of the Nations of Ethiopia and One Planet International School.\n\nThe Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 26,581 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30818197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30818197", "title": "Bat-Kohen", "text": "Bat-Kohen\n\nA bat-kohen or bat kohen () is the daughter of a Jewish priest, who holds a special status which is governed by special regulations in the Hebrew Bible and rabbinical texts.\n\nIn rabbinical literature the bat kohen is considered unique in comparison to the general population of the daughters of Israel. This uniqueness is believed to be displayed—among other attributes—by her inherent ability to cope with above average and even intense levels of spirituality (Kedusha). This ability is attributed to her being the offspring—and raised—by her father, a Kohen, whose life is purported to be dedicated to the spiritual maintenance and growth of the Jewish people and service of the God of Israel.\n\nThe Mishnah and Talmud instruct that the \"bat kohen\" is to be scrupulous in matters of \"tzniut\" (\"modesty\"), thereby portraying the values of maintaining a life dedicated to holiness and her father's life-work, and also that the \"bat kohen\" marry a kohen.\n\nThe \"bat kohen\" is entitled to a number of rights and is encouraged to abide by specified requirements, for example, entitlement to consumption of the holy parts of sacrifices parts), lenient specifications in her preparations for immersion (J.Pesachim.1) and an above average monetary stipulation in her marriage contract. Also, the firstborn of a daughter of a Kohen or Levite is not redeemed at thirty days.\n\nThe initial (the first was really Tamar bas Shem) mentioning in the Hebrew Bible of a daughter of a priest as a unique personality is at the time Joseph was ordained viceroy to Pharaoh;\nNext in the Hebrew Bible is the marriage of Moses to Zipporah, daughter of Jethro the priest of Midian. However, in terms of Talmud interpretation of the Torah and Halacha, the Aramaic and Hebrew term \"bat kohen\" is used and reserved for the daughters of Jewish male priestly descendants of Aaron exclusively.\n\nChazal recognize Tamar as a daughter of a priest, and describe her as being the daughter of Shem, who was a priest before the priestly covenant was given to Aaron, and thus the Torah lists her punishment as Sreifah \"burning\"—a punishment given the \"bat kohen\" as described below.\n\nThe Torah stipulates specific birthrights and unique responsibilities of the daughter of the Jewish priest (kohen). In the Hebrew Bible she is granted the privilege of consuming specified parts of the sacrifice as well as heave offering, both being perishables that carry numerous rules and requirements of purity (\"tohorot\") for their consumption. This right is specified in Numbers;\n\nThe types of sacrifices the Bat-Kohen is afforded include the breast and thigh of the peace offering, the four loaves of the thank offering the foreleg of the Nazirite's ram offering.\n\nThe Bat-Kohen is entitled to offer her employees to partake in her heave offering, and, by the Law, it is permitted to bypass her father (or husband) and initially give her tithe offering and dough offering but Menachem Meiri forbids this of concern that one may give these gifts in error to the wife of a Kohen who was initially the daughter of an Israelite post her divorce, such giving the gifts to a person who is no longer entitled to the gifts.\n\nThe daughter of a priest is likewise permitted to consume the firstborn animal. Regarding the giving of the foreleg, cheeks and abomasum, there is a Tannaic dispute as to whether an Israelite performs his mitzvah by giving them to the Bat-Kohen. This is the disagreement between the School or Rabbi Yishmael and the school of Rabbi Eliezer Ben Yaakov.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible law is stringent regarding the modesty of a daughter of a priest. In the event that the daughter of a priest engages in specified immodest behavior, such as adultery during marriage or engagement \"eirusin\"; then she, as well as her father, are faced with consequences graver than those of a regular daughter of Israel. Her punishment is listed as that of \"sreifah\" \"burning\" (actually the pouring of hot lead down the throat), contrasted with that of a \"daughter of Israel\" (\"bat Yisrael\", a non priestly Israelite woman) who is punished with \"chenek\" (hanging), and her father is demoted from being honored with the sanctity afforded priests.\n\nAlthough basic Torah law allows for the \"bat kohen\" to marry a challal, convert and freed slave (Hebrew \"eved me shukhrar\"), the Midrash and Talmud cite Rabbi Yochanan's view that a daughter of a priest is best off marrying a priest. Rabbi Yochanan maintains that in the event a \"bat kohen\" marries a non-Kohen, undesired results for the groom are likely to surface, such as poverty or the demise of the groom. An exception to this taboo is if the groom is a \"Talmid Chacham\"\n\nThe Talmud narrates how the Tanna Rabbi Yehoshua married a non-kohen wife and then complained that it weakened him. Rashi explains that the marriage of a bat kohen to a man who is not a kohen, or a \"Talmid Chacham\" (\"student\"), is considered a swipe at the honor of Aaron, and Aaron himself is annoyed at the demotion of his progeny, resulting in a negative consequence.\n\nThe Mishnah and Talmud Bavli both state that the Beth-Din of the priests (prior to 70CE) would have overseen that the Ketubah of a Bat-Kohen would contract the amount of four hundred Zuz (an increase from the standard amount of two hundred Zuz) in the event the bat kohen would be given a bill of divorce, limited to a bat kohen virgin whereas a maiden would receive the standard one hundred Zuz, the increase was written as the base amount due the Bat-Kohen and not considered a bonus (J.Ketuboth.1.5, B.Ketuboth.12b).\n\nThe Talmud Yerushalmi opines that the Bat-Kohen who marries a non-Kohen receives that standard two hundred Zuz amount, as a penalty for not marrying within the greater family of priests (J.Ketuboth 1:5 p. 6a).\n\nAmong the Rishonim, Jacob ben Meir clarifies that the words in Ketuboth \"that which is due you\" (Aramaic \"d'chazi l'chi\") are to portray that the excess amount is not considered a bonus (Aramaic \"tosefet kethuba\") but the base amount (Aramaic \"ikkar kethuba\").\n\nAlso among the Rishonim, Asher ben Jehiel likewise explain that the full amount of four hundred Zuz is collectible even in the even the original marriage contract document is lost, and even if the larger four hundred Zuz amount was not written in the \"bat kohen\"'s marriage contract all this with the intent to publicize the importance of the daughters of Kohanim.\n\nFrom among the Tosafists, Jonathan ben David ha-Cohen of Lunel (c. 1135–after 1210) describes the excessive amount given the \"bat kohen\" as the rightful due to her and her family for keeping to the Torah laws and restrictions that apply to priestly families and keeping to the heritage (\"yukhsin\") of priestly lineage. Jonathan of Lunel goes on to negate the notion that such excess would cause envy and jealousy from non-priestly families (who are not officially entitled to the excess amount).\n\nJoseph ibn Habib justifies to excess amount listed in the bat kohen's Ketubah since it is a greater shame for the kohen where his daughter to be divorced, and the excess amount would entice the husband to reconsider divorcing his bat-kohen wife.\n\nShneur Zalman of Liadi stated that the marriage ceremony and feast a bat kohen to a non-kohen man is not considered a \"seudat mitzvah\", since the marriage is one that may produce negative results.\n\nIsaac Luria explains the negative aspect of a \"bat kohen\" not marrying a kohen from the Kabbalistic view, using gematria; that since the Hebrew letters K H N ( ה,נ,ך those that spell \"kohen\") do not have a match using the \"Ayak Becher\" formula, therefore it is best for a kohen to marry a kohen.\nThe formula, explains Luria, portrays that the such marriage between Kohanic families works nicely.\n\nThere have been different interpretations in the modern era, such as the ruling of Chief Rabbi of the British Empire Rabbi Nathan HaKohen Adler in 1863 that the daughter of a Cohen may only marry a non-Cohen.\n\nBased on the research of Epstein (1973) the recording of Four hundred Zuz in the Ketubah of the Bat-Kohen was well in effect during the Amora period, but from thence onward, no mentioning of the increased amount is found in Rabbinic sources.\n\nThe expectations upon the daughter of a Kohen feature in Julian Stryjkowski's \"Voices in the Darkness.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1298476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298476", "title": "Bhil people", "text": "Bhil people\n\nBhils or Bheels are primarily an ethnic group of people in West India. Bhils are also settled in the Tharparkar District of Sindh, Pakistan. They speak the Bhil languages, a subgroup of the Western Zone of the Indo-Aryan languages. As of 2013, Bhils were the largest tribal group in India.\n\nBhils are listed as indigenous people of the states of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan - all in the western Deccan regions and central India - as well as in Tripura in far-eastern India, on the border with Bangladesh. Bhils are divided into a number of endogamous territorial divisions, which in turn have a number of clans and lineages. Most Bhils now speak the language of the region they reside in, such as Marathi, Gujarati or a Hindustani dialect.\n\nIn Azamgarh and Jaunpur, the Bhil are now mainly a community of settled farmers, with a significant minority who are landless agricultural labourers. A significant subsidiary occupation remains hunting and gathering. The Bhil are now largely Hindu, with Nirdhi following Islam, and few sub-groups in the Dangs following Christianity. They continue to worship tribal deities such as Dev Mogra Mata and Sitla Mata.\n\nThe Bhil are classified as a Scheduled Tribe in Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Tripura under the Indian government's reservation program of positive discrimination.\n\nThe Bhil are divided into a number of endogamous territorial divisions, which in turn have a number of clans and lineages. The main divisions in Gujarat are the Barda, Dungri Garasia, and Vasava, while in Maharashtra, the Bhil Mavchi and Kotwal are their main sub-groups.\n\nIn Rajasthan, they exist as Bhil Garasia, Dholi Bhil, Dungri Bhil, Dungri Garasia, Mewasi Bhil, Rawal Bhil, Tadvi Bhil, Bhagalia, Bhilala, Pawra, Vasava and Vasave.\n\nThe language commonly spoken by Bhils throughout their geographic distribution is Bhili. Bhili has about up to 36 identified dialects and pronunciation differs by region. Bhili is based on Gujarati, but dialects of Bhili gradually merge into more widely-spoken languages such as Marathi in the southeast and Rajasthani in the northwest.\n\nEstimates of individuals speaking the language are often inaccurate as speakers of minor languages like Bhili have sometimes been treated as having major languages (such as Marathi or Gujarati) as their mother tongue.\n\nBhils have rich and unique culture. The Bhilala sub-division is known for its Pithora painting. Ghoomar is a traditional folk dance of Bhil tribe.\nMain foods of Bhils are maize, onion, garlic and Chilli which they cultivate in their small fields. The vegitables and fruits collected by them from forests. Wheat and rice are used at time of festivals and other special occasions only. They keep self-made bows and arrow, sword, Knife, axe etc with them as weapon for self-protection and hunting the wild fauna which also form the major part of their diet. They profusely use alcohol distilled by them from the flower of Mahua(Madhuca longifolia). On festive occasions various special preparation from the dish rich, i.e Makka, genhu, lapsi, kasar and chawal etc. Bhils are traditionally non-vegetarian. They eat the meat of Goat, Chicken, Fish, Bull, Deer etc.\n\nEvery village has its own local deity (Gramdev) and families too have their Jatidev, Kuldev and Kuldevi(house hold deity) which symbolised by stones. 'Bhati dev' and 'Bhilat dev' are their serpent-god. 'Baba dev' is their village god. Karkulia dev is their crop god, Gopal dev is their pastoral god, Bag dev is their Lion god, Bhairav dev is their dog god. Some of their other gods are Indel dev, Bada dev, Mahadevel, Tejaji, Lotha mai, Techma, Orka Chichma and Kajal dev. A number of Hindu deities have now also been worshipped by them, viz. Hanuman, Shri Rama, Krishna, Shiva, Laxmi, Ganesh, Kuber, Indra and Durga. \n\nThey have much faith in magico-religious beliefs and Bhopas for their physical, mental and psycological treatements. \n\nThere are a number of festivals, viz. Rakhi, Navratri, Dashera, Diwali, Holi which celebrated by the Bhils. They also celebrate some traditional festivals viz. Akhatij, Navmi, Howan Mata ki Chalavani, Sawan Mata ki jatar, Diwasa, Nawai, Bhagoria, Gal, Gar, Dhobi, Sanja, Indel, Doha etc with ceremonious zeal and ethusiasm. \n\nDuring some festivals there are a number of tribal fairs held at different places of districts. Navratri mela, Bhagoria mela(during Holi festival) etc.\n\nThe chief means of their recreation is folk songs and dances. Women dance at birth celebrations, marriage functions and on a few festivals in traditional Bhili style accompanied by a drum beat. Their dances include the Lathi dance, Dhol dance, marriage dance, Holi dance, Battle dance, Bhagoria dance, Deepawal dance and hunting dance. Musical instruments include the Harmonium, Sarangi, kundi, Bansuri, apang, khajria, Tabla, jhanjh, Mandal and Thali. They are usually made from local products.\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "7084071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7084071", "title": "Bibliolatry", "text": "Bibliolatry\n\nBibliolatry (from the Greek βιβλίον \"biblion\", \"book\" and the suffix -λατρία \"-latria\", \"worship\") is the worship of a book or the description of a deity found in a book.\nIn Christianity, \"bibliolatry\" is used to describe extreme devotion to the Bible or to biblical inerrancy. Supporters of biblical inerrancy point to passages (such as 2 Timothy 3:16–17) interpreted to say that the Bible, as received, is a complete source of what must be known about God. Critics of this view call it a form of idolatry, pointing to verses (such as John 5:39–40) to indicate that Jesus asked humanity to relate to God directly rather than seeking God's rules and spurning a relationship with the God who created them.\n\nHistorical Christianity has never endorsed worship of the Bible, since worship is reserved for God. Some Christians believe that biblical authority derives from God as the inspiration of the text, not the text itself. The term does not refer to a belief, but may be used pejoratively to label the perceived practices of theological opponents. The groups to whom the term is most-often applied are Protestants of a fundamentalist and evangelical background who espouse biblical inerrancy and \"sola scriptura\" (scripture is the only divine authority). Whether the King James Only movement is a form of bibliolatry is disputed.\n\nCatholicism traditionally sees scripture and sacred tradition as \"prima scriptura\" (rather than scripture alone), and has implicitly accused some Protestant sects of bibliolatry. Jaroslav Pelikan wrote about \"Unitatis redintegratio\", \"The Second Vatican Council of the Roman Catholic Church of 1962–1965 could speak with a mixture of genuine admiration and ever-so-gentle reproof about a 'love and reverence, almost a cult, for Holy Scripture' among the 'separated Protestant brethren. The three independent branches of Eastern Christianity have voiced similar opinions and, with Catholicism and some Protestant opinion, have a higher view of the apostolic succession of bishops than Protestants who derive their faith primarily from the Reformed tradition or hold evangelical or low church views.\n\nAnother influence on bibliolatry is the fact that nearly all of those who hold high views of the Bible's authority against tradition also tend to reject the biblical authority of the deuterocanonical books found in the Septuagint that Catholicism and Eastern Christianity regard as canonical. Protestants reject these books, despite their regard by the church for over a millennium before the reformers rejected their authority. Protestants tend to rely on the Masoretic Text of contemporary Judaism, which is rooted in the traditions of the Pharisees. Although Catholicism and Eastern Christianity do not fully agree about which books are deuterocanonical and which are not (with the Orthodox Tewahedo preserving the most inclusive set of books, many of which were not preserved elsewhere), the regard for the Septuagint held by the early church fathers is regarded as sound. Most Catholics and Eastern Christians agree with high-church Protestants that the Old Testament is best understood by studying the Masoretic Text and the Septuagint; modern Bible translations in these traditions often take both into consideration. The authority of the Protestant Reformers to reject books from the Christian biblical canon is seen as dubious. Those who view the Vulgate in Roman Catholicism, the Septuagint in Eastern Orthodoxy, the Peshitta in Syriac Christianity, or the Ge'ez Bible of the Orthodox Tewahedo as more authoritative than the Hebrew Old Testament or the Greek New Testament could be accused of bibliolatry for many of the same reasons that the King James Only movement is.\n\nA change in wording of the Southern Baptist Convention's Baptist Faith and Message and a late-1990s purge of professors and other Baptist scholars who believed that historic (or archaeological) findings might raise legitimate questions about a biblical passage led to charges of bibliolatry.\n\nAlthough \"bibliolatry\" is most often used in a Christian context, the term is sometimes also used in discourse about Islam.\n\nIn Sikhism, the Guru Granth Sahib is regarded by many as more than the holy text; the text was proclaimed as the final guru by the last human Sikh guru, Guru Gobind Singh. Believers hold that the grammar and syntax in the book cannot be altered, and the text has a central role in Sikh worship.\n\n"}
{"id": "2773816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2773816", "title": "Chakravarti (Sanskrit term)", "text": "Chakravarti (Sanskrit term)\n\nChakravarti (Sanskrit चक्रवर्तिन् \"cakravartin\", Pali \"cakkavattin\") , is a Sanskrit term used to refer to an ideal universal ruler who rules ethically and benevolently over the entire world.\n\nSuch a ruler's reign is called \"sarvabhauma\". The word is a bahuvrīhi compound word, figuratively meaning \"whose wheels are moving\", in the sense of \"whose chariot is rolling everywhere without obstruction\". It can also be analysed as an 'instrumental bahuvrīhi: \"through whom the wheel is moving\" in the meaning of \"through whom the Dharmachakra (\"Wheel of the Dharma) is turning\" (most commonly used in Buddhism). The Tibetan word translates \"monarch who controls by means of a wheel\".\n\nThe first references to a \"Chakravala Chakravartin\" appear in monuments from the time of the Maurya Empire (322–185 BCE), dedicated to Chandragupta Maurya and his grandson Ashoka. In Buddhism, the Chakravarti came to be considered the secular counterpart of a Buddha. In general, the term applies to temporal as well as spiritual kingship and leadership, particularly in Buddhism and Jainism. In Hinduism, the term generally denotes a powerful ruler whose dominion extended to the entire earth.\n\nAccording to the traditions \"Vishnu, in the form of Chakra, was held as the ideal of worship for Kings desirous of obtaining Universal Sovereignty\", a concept associated with the Bhagavata Puranas, a religious sanction traceable to the Gupta period, which also led to the Chakravartin Concept. There are relatively few examples of chakravartins in both northern and southern India.\n\nIn Southern India, the Pallava period beginning with Simhavishnu (575 CE900 CE) was a transitional stage in southern Indian society with monument building, establishment of (bhakti) sects of Alvars and Nayanars, flowering of rural Brahmanical institutions of Sanskrit learning, and the establishment of \"Chakravartin\" model of kingship over a territory of diverse people; which ended the pre-Pallavan era of territorially segmented people, each with their culture, under a tribal chieftain. The Pallava period extolled ranked relationships based on ritual purity as enjoined by the \"shastras\". Burton distinguishes between the \"Chakravatin\" model and the \"Kshatriya\" model, and likens kshatriyas to locally based warriors with ritual status sufficiently high enough to share with \"Brahmins\"; and states that in south India the kshatriya model did not emerge. As per Burton, South India was aware of the Indo-Aryan \"Varna\" organized society in which decisive secular authority was vested in the \"Kshatriyas\"; but apart from the Pallava, Chola and Vijayanagar line of warriors which claimed \"Chakravartin\" status, only few locality warrior families achieved the prestigious kin-linked organization of northern warrior groups.\n\nDuring the each motion of the half-cycle of the wheel of time, 63 Salakapurusa or 63 illustrious men, consisting of the 12 Chakravartin regularly appear. The Jain cosmology or legendary history is basically a compilation of the deeds of these illustrious men. As per Jain cosmology, Chakravartins are \"Universal Monarchs\" or \"World Conquerors\". Golden in complexion, they all belonged to the \"Kasyapa\" gotra. The mother of a Chakravartin sees some dreams at the time of conception. A chakravartin is considered an ideal human being endowed with thirty-two major signs of excellence and many minor signs of excellence.\n\nThe list of 12 chakravartin of \"Avasarpini\" as per Jainism is as follows\n\nIn Jainism, a Chakravartin Samrat was characterised by his possession of \"Saptaratna\", or \"Seven Jewels\":\n\nSome lists cite navaratna or \"nine jewels\" instead, adding \"Prime Minister\" and \"Son\".\n\nThe concept of the cakravarti existed in Buddhism as well as in Jainism. The Buddhist \"Mahāvastu\" (1.259f) and the \"Divyāvadāna\", as well as the Theravadin Milindapañha, describe the marks of the cakravarti as ruler: , chhatra \"parasol\", \"horn jewel\" or vajra, whisk and sandals. These were the marks of the kshatriya. Plastic art of early Mahayana Buddhism illustrates bodhisattvas in a form called \"wearing a turban/hair binding\", wielding the mudras for \"nonviolent cakravarti rule\".\n\nA Cakravarti King is a king who rules all of the great continents (Pubbavideha, Jambudipa, \nAparagoyana, Uttarakuru) of earth. The King wins all of the continents with peace. Since he's virtuous, seven miracle treasures appear including a large wheel spinning (Chakraratnaya) in the sky. King and his army can travel anywhere with that spinning wheel in the sky. He travels over the world and teaches all kings how to rule with peace Dasavidha-rājadhamma. He can travel to the lower heaven realms with the power of Chakraratnaya if he wants. Cakravarti king only appears when humans are virtuous and long lived. Jataka tales a part of the Pali Canon describe Buddhist Cakravarti Kings.\n\n"}
{"id": "3899958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3899958", "title": "Ganapatya", "text": "Ganapatya\n\nGanapatya is a denomination of Hinduism that worships Ganesha (also called Ganapati) as the Saguna Brahman.\nThe worship of Ganesha is considered complementary with the worship of other deities. Hindus of all sects begin prayers, important undertakings, and religious ceremonies with an invocation of Ganesha, because of Ganesha's role as the god of beginnings. But although most Hindu sects do revere Ganesha, the Ganapatya sect goes further than that, and declares Ganesha to be the supreme being. Ganapatya is one of the five principal Hindu sects which focus on a particular deity, alongside Shaivism, focussed on Shiva, Shaktism, focussed on Shakti, Vaishnavism, focussed on Vishnu, and Saura, focussed on Surya. While Ganapatya is not as large a sect as the other four, it still has been influential. There is also the Smartism sect, which follows Advaita philosophy and practices the \"worship of the five forms\" () system, popularized by . In this system, the five deities Ganesha, Vishnu, Shiva, Devī, and Sūrya are viewed as five equal forms of one Saguna Brahman.\n\nGanapati has been worshipped as part of Shaivism since at least the fifth century. A specific Ganapatya sect probably began to appear between the sixth and ninth centuries: six sects are mentioned in the Sankara digvijaya (life of Adi Shankara) by Anandigiri. It reached a high point about the tenth century, and built temples dedicated to Ganesha, the largest of which is the Ucchi Pillayar Koil (the Columns Hall of a Thousand Pillars), on the Rock Fort of Tiruchirapalli in Tamil Nadu. Ganesha is worshipped as the Supreme Being (Para Brahman) in this sect. Being the chief deity in this form of Hinduism, he is known by the epithet Parameshwara (Supreme God), which is normally reserved for Shiva.\nLater, the sect was popularized by Morya Gosavi. According to one source, he found an idol of Ganapati not made by human hands, and built the Moragao temple near Pune in the 14th century. According to another, he experienced visions of Ganapati at the Morgaon shrine, and was entombed alive (jeeva samadhi) in 1651, in a Ganesha temple at his birthplace in Chinchwad.\n\nFollowing him, the Ganapatya sect became prominent between the seventeenth and nineteenth centuries in Maharashtra in south western India, centering on Cinchwad. It's centre is still among high-caste Hindus in the Marathi-speaking Maharashtra, and it is important in the rest of South India. Devotees hold an annual pilgrimage between Chinchwad and Moragao.\n\nSect marks include a red circle on the forehead, or the brands of an elephant face and tusk on the shoulders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "850864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=850864", "title": "Germanic paganism", "text": "Germanic paganism\n\nGermanic paganism refers to the indigenous religion of the Germanic people from the Iron Age until Christianisation during the Middle Ages. Rooted in Proto-Indo-European religion, Proto-Germanic religion expanded during the Migration Period, yielding extensions such as Old Norse religion among the North Germanic peoples, Continental Germanic paganism among the continental Germanic peoples, and Anglo-Saxon paganism among the West Germanic people. Among the East Germanic peoples, traces of Gothic paganism may be discerned from scant artifacts and attestations. According to John Thor Ewing, as a religion it consisted of \"individual worshippers, family traditions and regional cults within a broadly consistent framework\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9433663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9433663", "title": "Gopinath (god)", "text": "Gopinath (god)\n\nGopinath (Devnagari: गोपीनाथ) is a form of the Hindu god Krishna. He is also known as Gopinathji or Gopinathji Maharaj. Gopinath is associated with gopis (cow-herding girls) who Krishna grew up with.\n\n"}
{"id": "56407654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56407654", "title": "Heavenly Quran", "text": "Heavenly Quran\n\nThe Heavenly Quran (), according to a common Islamic belief, is a primordial version of the Quran, mentioned in Surah and referred in Surah , that resides in heaven, distinct from the earthly Quran. It is disputed whether the revealed Quran is a precise copy of the Heavenly Quran or an abridged version. Commonly, Injil and the Islamic notion of Torah are thought to be part of the Heavenly Quran.\n"}
{"id": "31520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31520", "title": "Hellfire Club", "text": "Hellfire Club\n\nHellfire Club was a name for several exclusive clubs for high society rakes established in Britain and Ireland in the 18th century. The name is most commonly used to refer to Sir Francis Dashwood's Order of the Friars of St. Francis of Wycombe. Such clubs were rumoured to be the meeting places of \"persons of quality\" who wished to take part in socially perceived immoral acts, and the members were often involved in politics. Neither the activities nor membership of the club are easy to ascertain, for the clubs were rumoured to have distant ties to an elite society known only as The Order of the Second Circle.\n\nThe first official Hellfire Club was founded in London in 1718, by Philip, Duke of Wharton and a handful of other high society friends. The most notorious club associated with the name was established in England by Sir Francis Dashwood, and met irregularly from around 1749 to around 1760, and possibly up until 1766. In its later years, the Hellfire was closely associated with Brooks's, established in 1764. Other clubs using the name \"Hellfire Club\" were set up throughout the 18th century. Most of these clubs were set up in Ireland after Wharton's had been dissolved.\n\nLord Wharton, made a Duke by George I, was a prominent politician with two separate lives: the first a \"man of letters\" and the second \"a drunkard, a rioter, an infidel and a rake\". The members of Wharton's club are largely unknown. Mark Blackett-Ord assumes that members included Wharton's immediate friends: Earl of Hillsborough, cousin – the Earl of Lichfield and Sir Ed. O'Brien. Aside from these names, other members are not revealed.\n\nAt the time of the London gentlemen's club, where there was a meeting place for every interest, including poetry, philosophy and politics, Philip, Duke of Wharton's Hell-Fire Club was, according to Blackett-Ord, a satirical \"gentleman's club\" which was known to ridicule religion, catching onto the then-current trend in England of blasphemy. The club was more a joke, meant to shock the outside world, than a serious attack on religion or morality. The supposed president of this club was the Devil, although the members themselves did not apparently worship demons or the Devil, but called themselves devils. Wharton's club admitted men and women as equals, unlike other clubs of the time. The club met on Sundays at a number of different locations around London. The Greyhound Tavern was one of the meeting places used regularly, but because women were not to be seen in taverns, the meetings were also held at members' houses and at Wharton's riding club.\n\nAccording to at least one source, their activities included mock religious ceremonies and partaking in meals containing dishes like \"Holy Ghost Pie\", \"Breast of Venus\", and \"Devil's Loin\", while drinking \"Hell-fire punch\". Members of the Club supposedly came to meetings dressed as characters from the Bible.\n\nWharton's club came to an end in 1721 when George I, under the influence of Wharton's political enemies (namely Robert Walpole) put forward a Bill \"against 'horrid impieties'\" (or immorality), aimed at the Hellfire Club. Wharton's political opposition used his membership as a way to pit him against his political allies, thus removing him from Parliament. After his Club was disbanded, Wharton became a Freemason, and in 1722 he became the Grand Master of England.\n\nSir Francis Dashwood and the Earl of Sandwich are alleged to have been members of a Hellfire Club that met at the George and Vulture Inn throughout the 1730s. Dashwood founded the Order of the Knights of St Francis in 1746, originally meeting at the George & Vulture.\n\nThe club motto was \"Fais ce que tu voudras\" (Do what thou wilt), a philosophy of life associated with François Rabelais' fictional abbey at \"Thélème\" and later used by Aleister Crowley.\n\nFrancis Dashwood was well known for his pranks: for example, while in the Royal Court in St Petersburg, he dressed up as the King of Sweden, a great enemy of Russia. The membership of Sir Francis' club was initially limited to twelve but soon increased. Of the original twelve, some are regularly identified: Dashwood, Robert Vansittart, Thomas Potter, Francis Duffield, Edward Thompson, Paul Whitehead and John Montagu, 4th Earl of Sandwich. The list of supposed members is immense; among the more probable candidates are Benjamin Bates II, George Bubb Dodington, a fabulously corpulent man in his 60s; William Hogarth, although hardly a gentleman, has been associated with the club after painting Dashwood as a Franciscan Friar and John Wilkes, though much later, under the pseudonym John of Aylesbury. Benjamin Franklin is known to have occasionally attended the club's meetings during 1758 as a non-member during his time in England. However, some authors and historians would argue Benjamin Franklin was in fact a spy. As there are no records left (having been burned in 1774), many of these members are just assumed or linked by letters sent to each other.\n\nSir Francis's club was never originally known as a Hellfire Club; it was given this name much later. His club in fact used a number of other names, such as the \"Brotherhood of St. Francis of Wycombe\", \"Order of Knights of West Wycombe\", \"The Order of the Friars of St Francis of Wycombe\" and later, after moving their meetings to Medmenham Abbey, they became the Monks or Friars of Medmenham. The first meeting at Sir Francis's family home in West Wycombe was held on \"Walpurgis Night\", 1752; a much larger meeting, it was something of a failure and no large-scale meetings were held there again. In 1751, Dashwood leased Medmenham Abbey on the Thames from a friend, Francis Duffield. On moving into the Abbey, Dashwood had numerous expensive works done on the building. It was rebuilt by the architect Nicholas Revett in the style of the 18th century Gothic revival. At this time, the motto \"Fais ce que tu voudras\" was placed above a doorway in stained glass. It is thought that William Hogarth may have executed murals for this building; none, however, survive. Underneath the Abbey, Dashwood had a series of caves carved out from an existing one. It was decorated again with mythological themes, phallic symbols and other items of a sexual nature.\n\nAccording to Horace Walpole, the members' \"practice was rigorously pagan: Bacchus and Venus were the deities to whom they almost publicly sacrificed; and the nymphs and the hogsheads that were laid in against the festivals of this new church, sufficiently informed the neighborhood of the complexion of those hermits.\" Dashwood's garden at West Wycombe contained numerous statues and shrines to different gods; Daphne and Flora, Priapus and the previously mentioned Venus and Dionysus.\n\nMeetings occurred twice a month, with an AGM lasting a week or more in June or September. The members addressed each other as \"Brothers\" and the leader, which changed regularly, as \"Abbot\". During meetings members supposedly wore ritual clothing: white trousers, jacket and cap, while the \"Abbot\" wore a red ensemble of the same style. Legends of Black Masses and Satan or demon worship have subsequently become attached to the club, beginning in the late Nineteenth Century. Rumours saw female \"guests\" (a euphemism for prostitutes) referred to as \"Nuns\". Dashwood's Club meetings often included mock rituals, items of a pornographic nature, much drinking, wenching and banqueting.\n\nThe downfall of Dashwood's Club was more drawn-out and complicated. In 1762, the Earl of Bute appointed Dashwood his Chancellor of the Exchequer, despite Dashwood being widely held to be incapable of understanding \"a bar bill of five figures\". (Dashwood resigned the post the next year, having raised a tax on cider which caused near-riots). Dashwood now sat in the House of Lords after taking up the title of Baron Le Despencer after the previous holder died. Then there was the attempted arrest of John Wilkes for seditious libel against the King in the notorious issue No. 45 of his \"The North Briton\" in early 1763. During a search authorised by a General warrant (possibly set up by Sandwich, who wanted to get rid of Wilkes), a version of \"The Essay on Woman\" was discovered set up on the press of a printer whom Wilkes had almost certainly used. The work was almost certainly principally written by Thomas Potter, and from internal evidence can be dated to around 1755. It was scurrilous, blasphemous, libellous, and bawdy, though not pornographic- still unquestionably illegal under the laws of the time, and the Government subsequently used it to drive Wilkes into exile. Between 1760 and 1765 \"Chrysal, or the Adventures of a Guinea\" by Charles Johnstone was published. It contained stories easily identified with Medmenham, one in which Lord Sandwich was ridiculed as having mistaken a monkey for the Devil. This book sparked the association between the Medmenham Monks and the Hellfire Club. By this time, many of the Friars were either dead or too far away for the Club to continue as it did before. Medmenham was finished by 1766.\n\nPaul Whitehead had been the Secretary and Steward of the Order at Medmenham. When he died in 1774, as his will specified, his heart was placed in an urn at West Wycombe. It was sometimes taken out to show to visitors, but was stolen in 1829.\n\nThe West Wycombe Caves in which the Friars met are now a tourist site known as the \"Hell Fire Caves\".\n\nIn 1781, Dashwood's nephew Joseph Alderson (an undergraduate at Brasenose College, Oxford) founded the Phoenix Society (later known as the Phoenix Common Room), but it was only in 1786 that the small gathering of friends asserted themselves as a recognised institution. The Phoenix was established in honour of Sir Francis, who died in 1781, as a symbolic rising from the ashes of Dashwood's earlier institution. To this day, the dining society abides by many of its predecessor's tenets. Its motto \"uno avulso non deficit alter\" (when one is torn away another succeeds) is from the sixth book of Virgil's \"Aeneid\" and refers to the practice of establishing the continuity of the society through a process of constant renewal of its graduate and undergraduate members. The Phoenix Common Room's continuous history was reported in 1954 as a matter of note to the college.\n\nA number of Hellfire Clubs are still in existence in Ireland and are centred around Universities and meet secretly, for example a hellfire club for Trinity College that meets in central Dublin, there is also a Hellfire Club at Maynooth University that meets in Maynooth and one that regularly meets in Cork. These clubs carry out similar actions as the original Hellfire Clubs, including mock ceremonies and drinking alcohol.\n\nThe Hellfire Club has appeared in numerous literary works:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36381954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36381954", "title": "Irreligion in Ghana", "text": "Irreligion in Ghana\n\nIrreligion in Ghana is difficult to measure in the country, as regular demographic polling is not widespread and available statistics are often many years old. Many Ghanaian nationals claim the Christian faith. Many atheists in Ghana are not willing to openly express their beliefs due to the fear of persecution. Most secondary educational institutions also have some form of religious affiliation. This is evident in the names of schools like Presbyterian Boys School, Holy Child School and many others. Atheists form a very small minority in Ghana.\n\nIn the Ghana census taken in 2010, Christians make up 71.2% of the population, Islam 17.6%, Irreligion 5.3%, Traditional religion 5.2%. Other faiths include Hinduism, Buddhism and Nichiren Buddhism, Taoism, Sōka Gakkai, Shintoism and Judaism.\n\nContrary to the generally accepted view that all Ghanaians profess one religion or the other, there is a small group of outspoken atheists, freethinkers and skeptics who form the \"Humanists Association of Ghana\". The group organized a Humanists conference in November, 2012 which brought together Humanists from around the world to discuss issues relevant to the advancement of Humanism in Ghana.\n\nA second International Humanist conference was hosted by the same organization in December 2014. It featured discussions on additional topics relevant to Humanism such as feminism, witchcraft accusations in West Africa and Humanist ceremonies. The organization currently has about fifty members and attracts limited media coverage. Work is still in progress to officially register the association and make it more broadly known in civic society.\n\nHumanism is not well known in Ghana and this, coupled with high levels of religious belief in Ghana makes it difficult for unbelievers to share their opinions freely without fear of stigma. There have been a few debates conducted by humanists in the country regarding what should be considered core humanist principles and what should be shifted to the broad spectrum of secularity.\n\nOpenly professing atheism or antireligious beliefs can lead to public outrage, such as when the popular hiplife artist Mzbel stated that Jesus was a fake.\n\n"}
{"id": "1186396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1186396", "title": "Islam in Kyrgyzstan", "text": "Islam in Kyrgyzstan\n\nThe vast majority of people in Kyrgyzstan are Muslims; as of 1997, 86.3% of the country's population were followers of Islam. Muslims in Kyrgyzstan are generally of the Sunni branch, which entered the region during the eighth century, though there are some Ahmadi Muslims. Most of Kyrgyz Muslims practice their religion in a specific way influenced by shamanic tribal customs. There has been a revival of Islamic practices since independence in Kyrgyzstan. For the most part religious leaders deal only with issues of religion and do not reach out to communities, but rather offer services to those who come to the mosque. There are regional differences, with the southern part of the country being more religious., and the northern part being more secular. Kyrgyzstan remained a secular state after the fall of communism, which had only superficial influence on religious practice when Kyrgyzstan was a Soviet republic, despite the policy of state atheism. Most of the Russian population of Kyrgyzstan is atheist or Russian Orthodox. The Uzbeks, who make up 12.9 percent of the population, are generally Sunni Muslims. The share of the Muslim population is increasing in Kyrgyzstan while the non-Muslim populations are decreasing. For example, Russians, Ukrainians, and Germans made-up 31.9 percent of Kyrgyzstzan’s population in 1979, and in 1999 were only 13.9 percent of the population.\n\nIslam was introduced to the Kyrgyz tribes between the eighth and twelfth centuries. More recent exposure to Islam occurred in the seventeenth century, when the Jungars drove the Kyrgyz of the Tian Shan region into the Fergana Valley, whose population was totally Islamic. However, as the danger from the Jungars subsided, a few elements of the Kyrgyz population returned to some of their tribal customs. When the Quqon Khanate advanced into northern Kyrgyzistan in the eighteenth century, various northern Kyrgyz tribes remained aloof from the official Islamic practices of that regime. By the end of the nineteenth century, however, the entire Kyrgyz population, including the tribes in the north, had converted to Sunni Islam. Each of the Muslim ethnic groups has a deep and long tradition of customary law. \nThe ethnic Kyrgyz have also preserved pre-Islamic traditions and customs which are not contrary to the Islamic teachings, which is similar to what happened in Indonesia.\n\nAlongside Islam, some Kyrgyz practice Tengriism, the recognition of spiritual kinship with a particular type of animal and reverence for the Spirits of nature, ancestors, the earth and sky. Under this belief system, which predates their contact with Islam, Kyrgyz tribes traditionally adopted reindeer, camels, snakes, owls, and bears as objects of worship. The sky, earth, sun, moon, and stars also play an important religious role. The strong dependence of the nomads on the forces of nature reinforced such connections and fostered belief in shamanism. Traces of such beliefs remain in the religious practice of many of today's Kyrgyz residing in the north.\n\nKnowledge of and interest in Islam is said to be much stronger in the south, especially around Osh, than further north. Religious practice in the north is more mixed with animism and shamanist practices, giving worship there a resemblance to Siberian religious practice.\n\nWhile religion has not played a particularly significant role in the politics of Kyrgyzstan, more traditional elements of Islamic values have been urged despite the nation's constitution stipulating to secularism. Although the constitution forbids the intrusion of any ideology or religion in the conduct of state business, a growing number of public figures have expressed support for the promotion of Islamic traditions. As in other parts of Central Asia, non-Central Asians have been concerned about the potential of a fundamentalist Islamic revolution that would emulate Iran and Afghanistan by bringing Islam directly into the shaping of state policy, to the detriment of the non-Islamic population.\n\nBecause of sensitivity about the economic consequences of a continued outflow of Russians (brain drain), then president Askar Akayev took particular pains to reassure the non-Kyrgyz that no Islamic revolution would occur. Akayev paid public visits to Bishkek's main Russian Orthodox church and directed one million rubles from the state treasury toward that faith's church-building fund. He also appropriated funds and other support for a German cultural center. Nevertheless, there has been support from local government to build bigger mosques and religious schools. Additionally, recent bills have been proposed to outlaw abortion, and numerous attempts have been made to decriminalize polygamy and to allow officials to travel to Mecca on a hajj under a tax-free agreement. In August 2016, the President of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev, has claimed that „women can become radicalised to become terrorists if they put on Islamic dress.” His remarks followed several weeks of controversy over government-sponsored hoardings or banners put up in the streets of the capital Bishkek to try to dissuade Kyrgyz women from wearing Islamic clothing, notably the hijab, niqab and burka.\n\nThe state recognizes two Muslim feast days as official holidays: Eid ul-Fitr (\"Öröz Ayt\"), which ends Ramadan, and Eid ul-Adha (\"Kurban Ayt\"), which commemorates Ibrahim's willingness to sacrifice his son. The country also recognizes Orthodox Christmas as well as the traditional Persian festival of Nowruz.\n\n"}
{"id": "2490209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2490209", "title": "Israel Lewy", "text": "Israel Lewy\n\nIsrael Lewy (7 January 1841 – 8 September 1917) was a German-Jewish scholar. \nHe was educated at the Jewish Theological Seminary and the University in Breslau. In 1874 he was appointed docent at the Lehranstalt für die Wissenschaft des Judenthums in Berlin, and in 1883, on the death of David Joël, he was called to the seminary at Breslau. Lewy's knowledge of Talmudic literature was unusually wide; he was endowed also with an exceptionally acute and dispassionate critical spirit and with a faculty for grasping the proper importance of details. \n\nHis first publication was \"Ueber Einige Fragmente aus der Mischna des Abba Saul\" (Berlin, 1876), in which he showed that the Mishnah collections of the foremost teachers in the period before the final redaction of the Mishnah itself, including that of Abba Saul, agreed as regards all the essential points of the Halakha. \n\n\"Ein Wort über die Mechilta des R. Simon\" (Breslau, 1889) was likewise an authoritative work in the field of halakhic exegesis. Lewy also published \"Interpretation des Ersten, Zweiten und Dritten Abschnitts des Palästinischen Talmud-Traktates Nesikin\" (ib. 1895-1902), and \"Ein Vortrag über das Ritual des Pesach-Abends\" (ib. 1904).\n\n"}
{"id": "10439573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10439573", "title": "James B. Jordan", "text": "James B. Jordan\n\nJames Burrell Jordan (born December 31, 1949) is an American Protestant theologian and author. He is the director of Biblical Horizons ministries, an organisation in Niceville, Florida that publishes books, essays and other media dealing with Bible commentary, Biblical theology, and liturgy. It adheres to biblical absolutism including Young Earth Creationism and is committed to the concept of biblical theocracy.\n\nJordan was born in Athens, Georgia. After public school, Jordan attended the University of Georgia, where he received a B.A. in comparative literature. While in college, he participated in the Campus Crusade for Christ and Young Americans for Freedom. \n\nHe served as a military historian in the United States Air Force and attended Reformed Theological Seminary in Jackson, Mississippi, before ultimately earning an M.A. and Th.M. from Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. His master's thesis was on slavery in the Bible. In 1993, Jordan received a D. Litt. from the Central School of Religion for his dissertation on the dietary laws of Moses.\n\nAfter his 1982 ordination in the Association of Reformed Churches, Jordan served for five years alongside Ray Sutton as associate pastor of Westminster Presbyterian Church, in Tyler, Texas. He was also the director of Geneva Ministries and Geneva Divinity School.\n\nSince 1988, Jordan has carried out his teaching and writing work full-time through Biblical Horizons, a Niceville, Florida-based research and publishing ministry. Biblical Horizons emphasizes the Trinity and biblical absolutism with a covenant-historical approach to interpretation and a focus on biblical theocracy, eschatology and worship.\n\nJordan has also served since 2000 as head of the Department of Biblical Studies at the Biblical Theological Seminary, St. Petersburg, Russia, where he teaches Old Testament and Eschatology.\n\nIn 2011, Wipf and Stock published a Festschrift in Jordan's honor. \"Glory of Kings: A Festschrift in Honor of James B. Jordan\" () was edited by Peter J. Leithart, and included contributions from Rich Lusk, Douglas Wilson and John Frame.\n\nBill DeJong characterizes Jordan's approach to biblical hermeneutics as \"pastoral typology\" - that is, seeing biblical typology as pointing not just to the work of Christ, but also to Christian worship. \n\nJordan has written many articles and books, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "2239403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239403", "title": "Kakure Kirishitan", "text": "Kakure Kirishitan\n\nKakure Kirishitan () is a modern term for a member of the Japanese Catholic Church during the Edo period that went underground after the Shimabara Rebellion in the 1630s.\n\nKakure Kirishitans are called the \"hidden\" Christians because they continued to practice Christianity in secret. They worshipped in secret rooms in private homes. As time went on, the figures of the saints and the Virgin Mary were transformed into figurines that looked like the traditional statues of the Buddha and bodhisattvas; depictions of Mary modeled on the Buddhist deity Kannon, goddess of mercy, became common, and were known as \"Maria Kannon\". The prayers were adapted to sound like Buddhist chant, yet retained many untranslated words from Latin, Portuguese, and Spanish. The Bible and other parts of the liturgy were passed down orally, because printed works could be confiscated by authorities. Because of the official expulsion of the Catholic clergy in the 17th century, the Kakure Christian community relied on lay leaders to lead the services.\n\nIn some cases, the communities drifted away from Christian teachings. They lost the meaning of the prayers and their religion became a version of the cult of ancestors, in which the ancestors happened to be their Christian martyrs.\n\nKakure Kirishitan was recognized by Bernard Petitjean, a Catholic priest, when Ōura Church was built in Nagasaki in 1865. Approximately 30,000 secret Christians, some of whom had adopted these new ways of practicing Christianity, came out of hiding when religious freedom was re-established in 1873 after the Meiji Restoration. The Kakure Kirishitan became known as , or \"ancient\" Christians, and emerged not only from traditional Christian areas in Kyushu, but also from other rural areas of Japan.\n\nThe majority of Kakure Kirishitan rejoined the Catholic Church after renouncing unorthodox, syncretic practices. Some Kakure Kirishitan did not rejoin the Catholic Church, and became known as the Hanare Kirishitan (, separated Christians). Hanare Kirishitan are now primarily found in Urakami and on the Gotō Islands.\n\nFollowing the legalization of Christianity and secularization of Japan, many Hanare Kirishitan lineages ended abruptly. Traditionally, boys learned the rituals and prayers from their fathers; when boys were uninterested or moved away from their homes, no one was left to continue the lineage.\n\nFor a while, Hanare Kirishitans were thought to have died out entirely because of the secretive nature of their practices. A group on Ikitsuki Island in Nagasaki Prefecture, which had been overlooked by the Japanese government, made their beliefs public in the 1980s and now perform their rituals for audiences; however, these practices have acquired some attributes of theatre, such as the telling of folktales and the use of statues and other images which most underground Christians never used.\n\nThe anthropologist Christal Whelan uncovered some Hanare Kirishitans on the Gotō Islands where Kakure Kirishitans had once fled. There were only two surviving priests on the islands, both of whom were over 90, and they would not talk to each other. The few surviving laity had also all reached old age, and some of them no longer had any priests from their lineage and prayed alone. Although these Hanare Kirishitans had a strong tradition of secrecy, they agreed to be filmed for Whelan's documentary \"Otaiya\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51109302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51109302", "title": "Kong He", "text": "Kong He\n\nKong He (孔紇), ( ? - c. 548 BC) also known as Shuliang He (叔梁紇), was the father of Confucius and an officer in the Lu state military. Kong died when Confucius was three years old, and Confucius was raised by his mother Yan Zhengzai (顏徵在) in poverty. Kong also had another son, named Pi (皮). However, as Kong Pi's mother was a concubine and Pi himself was said to have deformities in his feet, he could not become his father's successor. Kong He's first wife Lady Shi had given birth to only daughters. Thus, Kong He was heirless until the birth of Confucius.\n\nOn the 9th day of the fourth lunar month of the year 563 BCE, Kong He was supposedly responsible for holding open the gates of Bi Yang (偪阳), so that soldiers from his side who had already entered Bi Yang could escape. Meng Xianzi, then leader of the Mengsun clan of Lu (one of the Three Huan), praised him by saying, \"This is what the \"Classic of Poetry\" meant by 'having the strength of a tiger'.\" \n\nIt is generally thought that Confucius was born on September 28, 551 BC. His birthplace was in Zou, Lu state (near present-day Qufu, Shandong Province).\n"}
{"id": "1677175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1677175", "title": "List of Christian denominational positions on homosexuality", "text": "List of Christian denominational positions on homosexuality\n\nThis is a list of Christian denominational positions on homosexuality. The issue of homosexuality and Christianity is a subject of on-going theological debate within and between Christian denominations and this list seeks to summarise the various official positions. Within denominations, many members may hold somewhat differing views on and even differing definitions of homosexuality.\n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist Church is opposed to same-sex sexual practices and relationships on the grounds that \"sexual intimacy belongs only within the marital relationship of a man and a woman.\" It believes the Bible consistently affirms the pattern of heterosexual monogamy, and all sexual relations outside the scope of spousal intimacy are contrary to God's original plan.\n\nThe Anglican Communion has been divided over the issue of homosexuality in several ways. The Church of England, the mother church of the Communion, currently maintains (according to the statement \"Issues in Human Sexuality\") that same-sex partnerships are acceptable for laypersons, and gay clergy may enter in a civil partnership as long as they are expected to give assurances of celibacy. The Lambeth Conference of 1998 called homosexuality \"incompatible with Scripture\" but this remains a purely advisory guideline as there are no communion-wide legislative bodies in the Anglican Church. On the other hand, in 2003 the Episcopal Church, which is the American body (province) of the Anglican Communion, approved Gene Robinson to the bishopric of the diocese of New Hampshire. Bishop Gene Robinson is the first openly gay (non-celibate) clergy to be ordained to the episcopate. Mary Glasspool became first open lesbian suffragan bishop to be consecrated a bishop in the Anglican Communion in the Diocese of Los Angeles of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America. In 2016, Nicholas Chamberlain, the Bishop of Grantham, became the first bishop in the Church of England to come out as gay and in a same-sex relationship.\n\n\"The Anglican Church of Australia does not have a formal, official policy on the issue of homosexuality.\" The Anglican Church of New Zealand has experienced division and some bishops decided not to allow non-celibate homosexuals to become clergy. However, the Dunedin Diocese of the Anglican Church of New Zealand ordained an openly partnered gay man as deacon and, subsequently, as priest in 2005. The Dioceses of Auckland and Dunedin allow blessings for same-sex relationships. In 2014, the Anglican Church in New Zealand voted for \"a resolution that will create a pathway towards the blessing of same-gender relationships, while upholding the traditional doctrine of marriage.\"\n\nIn response to several controversies in the Episcopal Church, among which was its changed policies relating to sexual morality, a number of alternative Anglican churches were founded during the 1960s and 1970s. They are customarily referred to as the churches of the Continuing Anglican movement.\n\nIn 2008, conflict in the worldwide Anglican Communion over the issue of the acceptance of homosexuality, the appointment of Bishop Gene Robinson in the Episcopal Church in the USA, and a growing concern about the ambivalent position of the Anglican mother church in the UK led to the founding of a global network of conservative Anglican churches representing more than two thirds of Anglicans throughout the world. This is the Fellowship of Confessing Anglicans (FCA). \n\nFavoring more inclusion of same-sex relationships, \"more liberal provinces that are open to changing Church doctrine on marriage in order to allow for same-sex unions include Brazil, Canada, New Zealand, Scotland, South India, South Africa, Spain, the US and Wales.\" In 2015, the Church in Wales published \"a series of prayers which may be said with a couple following the celebration of a civil partnership or civil marriage.\" In 2016, the Scottish Episcopal Church voted to allow same-sex marriages; a required second reading was scheduled for 2017. Also in 2016, the Anglican Church of Canada voted to allow same-sex marriages, and a second reading will take place in 2019. In the Anglican Church of Southern Africa, the Diocese of Saldanha Bay proposed a prayer of blessing for same-sex marriages and civil unions, but the proposal did not pass. The archbishop of the Southern African Church, Thabo Makgoba, is \"one among few church leaders in Africa to support same-sex marriage.\"-In June 2018, the General Synod of Anglican Episcopal Church of Brazil voted to change the marriage canon to allow same-sex couples to get married.\n\nThe Anglican Church in North America (ACNA) was formed in 2009 as yet another conservative alternative to the Episcopal Church. It and the Continuing Anglican churches are primarily made up of people who left the Episcopal Church, partially in opposition to its approval of homosexual relationships and gay clergy.\n\nThe Southern Baptist Convention, the largest of the Baptist denominations and the single largest Protestant group in the U.S., believes that the Bible says practicing homosexuality is a sin, stating clearly that its members \"affirm God's plan for marriage and sexual intimacy – one man, and one woman, for life. Homosexuality is not a 'valid alternative lifestyle.' It is not, however, an unforgivable sin. The same redemption available to all sinners is available to homosexuals. They, too, may become new creations in Christ.\" Independent Fundamental Baptist churches (in general) also view homosexuality as sinful or unnatural.\n\nThe American Baptist Churches USA (ABCUSA) officially regards homosexual conduct \"as incompatible with Biblical teaching\"; however, there are a number of Baptist churches in the ABCUSA and the Cooperative Baptist Fellowship that have less literal views. The Association of Welcoming and Affirming Baptists, a group of some 50 churches and organizations, is committed to the \"full inclusion\" of gay and lesbian persons in their churches.\n\nThe historically African-American denominations of the National Baptist Convention have issued no public statements on homosexuality; however, the National Baptist Convention, USA, Inc. does not allow its clergy to officiate at ceremonies for same-sex unions.\n\nThe Canadian and American Reformed Churches cite Biblical sources from Leviticus 20:13, which reads: \"If a man lies with a man as one lies with a woman, both of them have done what is detestable.\" NIV\n\nA homosexual member of one of these churches will be placed under censure or excommunicated and can only be received again into the communion of saints and be admitted to the Lord's Supper in these Reformed traditions after he/she has declared repentance from his/her homosexuality, which the churches teach is a sin. After repentance, the person is declared forgiven by the church.\n\nIn July 2013, the General Assembly of the Disciples of Christ issued a \"Sense of the Assembly\" resolution (GA-1327 \"Becoming a People of Grace and Welcome to All\") that (in part) acknowledges that people within society and within the church have been \"devalued and discriminated against... because of their sexual orientation and/or gender identity,\" calls for the church to \"welcome to all God’s children though differing in... sexual orientation, (and/or) gender identity,\" and that it \"affirm(s) the faith, baptism and spiritual gifts of all Christians regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity, and that neither are grounds for exclusion from fellowship or service within the church, but are a part of God's good creation.\" Through this resolution, the General Assembling endorsed the ordination of LGBT clergy. GA-1327 also states, however, that local congregations have final say over matters of consciences.\n\nLocal Disciples of Christ congregations have also performed same-sex marriages (such as the First Christian Church of Davenport\n), although the General Assembly has no official policy on same-sex marriages.\n\nThe Christian Reformed Church in North America has maintained the stance since the 1970s that homosexuality is the direct result of a \"broken,\" sinful world, but that the Church should offer a compassionate community for Christian homosexuals. \"Homosexualism\" (explicit homosexual behavior) is considered disobedience to God's will revealed in Scripture.\nCelibate and repentant gays and lesbians should not be denied any right granted to heterosexuals. They have the right to maintain office and be an active member in a , as their gifts can still be used to glorify God. The Church must provide support for homosexuals to find \"healing and wholeness\" in their \"broken sexuality\".\n\nAlthough the First Christian Reformed Church of Toronto (also the first CRC congregation to call a woman minister) voted to allow gays and lesbians in committed partnerships as elders and deacons, this decision was later rescinded in the face of pressure from Classis Toronto (regional gathering of churches).\n\nThe Orthodox Church holds the opinion that sexuality, as we understand it, is part of the fallen world only. In Orthodox theology both monasticism and marriage are paths to Salvation (\"sotiria\"in Greek; literally meaning, \"becoming whole\"). Celibacy is the ideal path of exclusive concern for the Kingdom of God, exemplified in monasticism, while marriage is a reflection of the Messianic covenant and blessed under the context of true unitive love (\"Man must love his wife as Jesus loved his Church\": this phrase is part of the Orthodox marriage rite) with openness to procreation (\"bearing fruit\"). This context can be interpreted by the non-Orthodox as not being exclusive of homosexuality; whereas it is seen as exclusive of homosexuality by the vast majority of Orthodox Christians. Traditionally, the Christian East has maintained a comparatively non-legalistic view of sin (see above), in which homosexuality is spiritually disordered. Although some members of the Church may have assumed an active role in encouraging negative social stereotypes against unrepentant homosexuals, they misrepresent the stance of the Orthodox Church, which does not promote judgment of people but judgment of actions. However, several prominent members of the clergy have made statements condemning homosexuality.\n\nAll jurisdictions, such as the Orthodox Church in America, have taken the approach of welcoming people with \"homosexual feelings and emotions,\" while encouraging them to work towards \"overcoming its harmful effects in their lives,\" while not extending the holy mysteries (sacraments) to people who seek to justify homosexual activity.\n\nThe Assembly of Canonical Orthodox Bishops of North and Central America, the highest Orthodox Christian representative body in the Americas, reaffirmed in a statement in September 2013 that \"the Orthodox Christian teaching on marriage and sexuality, firmly grounded in Holy Scripture, two millennia of Church Tradition, and Canon Law, holds that the sacrament of marriage consists in the union of a man and a woman, and that authentic marriage reflects the sacred unity that exists between Christ and His Bride, the Church\". \"Acting upon any sexual attraction outside of sacramental marriage, whether the attraction is heterosexual or homosexual, alienates us from God\". Moreover, the Assembly reminded that \"persons with homosexual orientation are to be cared for with the same mercy and love that is bestowed on all of humanity by our Lord Jesus Christ\".\n\nLGBT activism within Orthodox Christianity has been much less widespread than in Roman Catholicism and many Protestant denominations. In 1980 the group Axios was founded in Los Angeles to affirm and advocate for sexual minorities within the Orthodox Church, and has since started several other chapters in the United States, Canada, and Australia.\n\nJehovah's Witnesses consider same-sex sexual activity to be sinful, but recognize that some people may be prone to homosexuality, including members of their congregation. Members are required to abstain from any homosexual behavior, which is listed as a serious sin, but are told not to hate homosexual individuals. Their literature has stated that Christians should not make homosexuals the target of ridicule or harassment. They believe that God intended marriage to be a permanent and an intimate bond between a man and a woman, and, regarding same-sex marriage, they have stated that it \"cannot give homosexuality a cloak of respectability\", and are told to avoid debates about the legality of homosexuality: \"Even when the laws of the land are in conflict with their Bible-trained conscience, Jehovah's Witnesses do not engage in protests or any form of political campaigns in order to change such laws.\"\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) makes it clear that experiencing feelings of same-sex attraction is neither a choice, a sin, nor the fault of the individual and that celibate LGBT members can have a good standing in the Church. LGBT Latter-day Saints are expected to obey the same law of chastity as heterosexual members, including not intentionally arousing sexual feelings and not participating in sexual acts outside of a legal and lawful marriage between one man and one woman. The Church considers engaging in same-sex sexual activity a sin, even if the same-sex relationship is recognized as a legal marriage or other legal union by civil authorities. \n\nIn 2007, the Church produced God Loveth His Children, a pamphlet whose stated purpose is to help LGBT members; and in December 2012, launched a web site titled \"Love One Another: A Discussion on Same-Sex Attraction\" at MormonsAndGays.org \"in an effort to encourage understanding and civil conversation about same-sex attraction.\" This website was later renamed MormonAndGay.org to reflect \"the reality that a person doesn’t need to choose between these two identities — one can, in fact, be gay and live faithful to the teachings of Christ.\" \n\nLeaders of the LDS Church have encouraged all to reach out to LGB persons with love and understanding, which has sparked some criticism and a small protest from some more conservative churches. However, the Church actively opposes the extension of the traditional definition of marriage to also include same-sex couples. In November 2015 a policy was released classifying couples in same-sex marriages as apostates and banning the children of same-sex couples from being baptized until turning 18 and disavowing their parents relationship. This policy brought criticism to the LDS faith. \n\nThe Community of Christ officially decided to extend the sacrament of marriage to same-sex couples where gay marriage is legal, to provide covenant commitment ceremonies where it is not legal, and to allow the ordination of people in same-sex relationships to the priesthood. However, this is only in the United States, Canada, and Australia. The church does have a presence in countries where homosexuality is punishable by law, even death, so for the protection of the members in those nations, full inclusion of LGBT individuals is limited to the countries where this is not the case. Individual viewpoints do vary, and some congregations may be more welcoming than others. Furthermore, the church has proponents for support of both traditional marriage and same-sex marriages. The First Presidency and the Council of Twelve will need to approve policy revisions recommended by the USA National Conference.\n\nThe Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the largest Lutheran church body in the United States, allows for LGBTQ+ marriage and ordination of LGBTQ+ clergy. ELCA policy states that LGBTQ+ individuals are welcome and encouraged to become members and to participate in the life of the congregation. The ELCA has provided supplemental resources for the rite of marriage in Evangelical Lutheran Worship which use inclusive language and are suitable for use in LGBTQ+ marriage ceremonies. The group ReconcilingWorks supports the full inclusion of LGBTQ+ members in Lutheran churches in the ELCA, and provides resources to assist ELCA congregations in becoming more welcoming communities for LGBTQ+ persons. ReconcilingWorks recognizes ELCA congregations that have committed to embracing LGBTQ+ persons as Reconciling in Christ congregations.\n\nThe current policy on LGBTQ+ inclusion in the ELCA developed over a period of several years. During the national meeting in 2005, delegates voted against a measure that would have allowed non-celibate gay ordination and the blessing of same-sex unions by 503 against to 490 in favor. On 21 August 2009, the ELCA voted 559 to 451 in favor of allowing non-celibate LGBTQ+ persons in committed monogamous relationships to become ordained ministers. Another motion passed at the 2009 Assembly directed its leaders to develop a rite of blessing for same-sex unions. In 2013, the ELCA elected Guy Erwin as their first openly gay bishop.\n\nThe Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod (LCMS), the second largest Lutheran church body in the United States, does not permit same-sex marriage and does not ordain homosexuals. The LCMS Synodical President Matthew Harrison was present to register the objections of the LCMS to the ordination of homosexuals at the ELCA Churchwide Assembly in 2009.\n\nThe Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod (WELS), the third largest Lutheran church body in the United States, does not permit same-sex marriage and does not ordain homosexuals.\n\nIn 2006, Lionel Ketola became the first person in a same-sex marriage to be appointed vicar (intern) of an Evangelical Lutheran Church in Canada congregation. This occurred at Newmarket, Ontario. Later that year, the Eastern Synod of the ELCIC voted to allow a \"local option\" for blessing same-sex unions. The national church, which had previously rejected such a proposal, proceeded to assert that it alone had the authority to make such a decision. The National Church Council agreed in a September ruling, but promised to bring forward another motion authorizing the local option for approval at the 2007 National Convention.\n\nMost Lutheran and united state churches in Germany, Lutheranism's country of origin, are liberal, viewing homosexuality as moral and allow gay and lesbian clergy. Most of the Lutheran and united churches in Germany are blessing same-sex unions. In general, some churches of the Evangelical Church in Germany in the more rural parishes are against blessing same-sex unions, while most other churches do allow them.\n\nIn 2006 the Church of Sweden allowed blessings of same-sex unions, and in 2009 allowed same-sex marriage and the ordination of gay clergy. KG Hammar, former Archbishop of Uppsala and primate of the Church of Sweden, has been very vocal in supporting gay and lesbian Lutherans. In 2009, Eva Brunne became the first lesbian woman to be elected as a bishop, in the Diocese of Stockholm.\n\nThe Church of Iceland allows same-sex marriages.\n\nThe Lutheran Church of Norway was divided, with 6 of 11 bishops accepting homosexual practice as moral, even though the church officially rejects it. But in 2015 the Church of Norway allowed the blessing of same-sex unions.\n\nSince 2012, the Church of Denmark has allowed same-sex marriages. However, some controversy has arisen over the constitutionality of this move, as the Danish Constitution requires the state church to uphold the Lutheran doctrine, which states that homosexual acts are sinful.\n\nThe Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland is divided on the issue and does not approve of same-sex marriages, though many bishops have expressed their acceptance for homosexual unions. As of October 2010, the Church of Finland allows, but does not oblige its clergy to pray for same-sex couples.\n\nThe United Protestant Church of France and the United Protestant Church in Belgium allow the blessing of same-sex marriages.\n\nThe Lutheran Church of Australia and Lutheran Church of New Zealand, which are both closely tied, reject same-sex unions, and affirm that homosexual acts are immoral.\n\nThe Mennonite church has multiple LGBT-affirming denominations. However, acceptance of LGBT Christians varies widely. No Mennonite Churches in North or South America have officially endorsed same-sex marriage, but some have taken steps towards this practice. In the Netherlands, same-sex marriages can be both ordained and conducted by the Mennonite Church since 2001.\n\nThe Church of the Brethren, Mennonite Church USA, and Mennonite Church Canada denominations work with the Supportive Communities Network to support the small proportion of congregations that include openly gay members. This is coordinated through the Brethren Mennonite Council on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Interests with over 70 participating congregations. In February 2014, the Mountain States Conference of the Mennonite Church USA approved the ministerial license and ordination of an openly lesbian pastor.\n\nIn contrast, some Mennonite pastors who performed same-sex unions have had their credentials revoked by their conference and some within the Mennonite Church USA have had their credentials reviewed without any disciplinary actions taken. A small number of Mennonite churches have been censured or disciplined for not expelling openly homosexual members.\n\nThe Pink Menno Campaign is a parachurch organization that advocates for the inclusion of LGBT Christians for membership, marriage and ordination in Mennonite churches. The Welcome Committee is an ad hoc group that issued an open letter to Mennonite churches defending inclusion of LBGT members and encourages conversation in churches about the issue.\n\nThe Methodist Church of Great Britain Within the Methodist Church of Great Britain, people have many views about human relationships, sexuality and the nature and purpose of marriage.\n\nOn inclusion\n\nIn 1993, the Methodist Conference passed six resolutions on human sexuality (see below), including a Resolution 6 which\n\n“recognized, affirmed and celebrated the participation and ministry of lesbian and gay people in the Methodist Church”. \n\nFurthermore, it called on the Methodist people to begin a pilgrimage of faith to combat repression and discrimination, to work for justice and human rights and to give dignity and worth to people whatever their sexual orientation. In passing these resolutions, the Methodist Conference made its opposition to homophobia known.\n\nOn Marriage\n\nIn 2014 the Methodist Conference 2014 reaffirmed the current Methodist Standing Orders which state the belief, \"that marriage is a gift of God and that it is God's intention that a marriage should be a life-long union in body, mind and spirit of one man and one woman.\" But, at the same time recognised that since 1993 British Methodists explicitly recognised, affirmed and celebrated the participation and ministry of lesbians and gay men, and been committed to a pilgrimage of faith to combat discrimination and give dignity and worth to people whatever their sexuality. The Conference in 2014 confirmed that there was no reason why Methodists may not enter legally formed same sex marriage (e.g. civil marriage or marriage in another denomination) or form a civil partnership.\n\nAt that time, and to date (June 2018), this did not change the definition that the Methodist Church uses to define the intention of marriage. However, in 2016 the Methodist Conference set up a working group to update its Statement (canons of the church) on Marriage and Relationships, including consideration of revising the definition of marriage, including consideration of same sex marriage. The task group will report to the Conference in 2018, and again no later than 2020.\n\nIn 2014, the Conference clarified that, whilst there is no formal Methodist liturgy or Methodist resources for the blessing of civil partnerships or same-sex marriage, appropriate pastoral responses may be given to same-sex couples who are entering civil partnership or legal same sex-marriages. In other words, prayers of thanksgiving or celebration may be said, and there may be informal services of thanksgiving or celebration. \n\nOn Homophobia\n\nThe Methodist Church of Great Britain has issued the following definition of Homophobia, which is supported by supplementary guidance.\n\nHomophobia is any statement, policy or action which denies the image of God in another person due to their actual or perceived sexual orientation; which is, treating someone in a discriminatory manner because of their actual or perceived sexual orientation. Homophobic attitudes, words, and behaviours are inconsistent with the nature of Christian conduct and a violation of the worth and dignity of all people. Homophobia can be experienced in a number of ways, including:\n\na) physical violence or emotional or psychological abuse, including the threat of or incitement to such behaviour (which may also be deemed hate crimes in law)\n\nb) applying stereotypes and assumptions to people based on their sexual orientation\n\nc) using language that is hostile, hurtful or offensive in its intent\n\nd) abusive or coercive ‘spiritual practices’ (ie demanding or requiring repentance or participation in healing or other types of service).\n\nContext: the 1993 Resolutions on Human Sexuality\n\nAt the annual Methodist Conference in 1993 in Derby, following long debate at all levels of the Church's life on the basis of a detailed report, the Methodist Church considered the issues of human sexuality. At the end of the debate, the Conference passed in the same session a series of resolutions (known as 'The 1993 Resolutions'). These resolutions are as follows:\n\n1. The Conference, affirming the joy of human sexuality as God's gift and the place of every human being within the grace of God, recognises the responsibility that flows from this for us all. It therefore welcomes the serious, prayerful and sometimes costly consideration given to this issue by The Methodist Church. \n\n2. All practices of sexuality, which are promiscuous, exploitative or demeaning in any way are unacceptable forms of behaviour and contradict God's purpose for us all. \n\n3. A person shall not be debarred from church on the grounds of sexual orientation in itself. \n\n4. The Conference reaffirms the traditional teaching of the Church on human sexuality; namely chastity* for all outside marriage and fidelity within it. The Conference directs that this affirmation is made clear to all candidates for ministry, office and membership, and having established this, affirm that the existing procedures of our church are adequate to deal with all such cases. \n\n5. The Conference resolves that its decision in this debate shall not be used to form the basis of a disciplinary charge against any person in relation to conduct alleged to have taken place before such decisions were made. \n\n6. Conference recognises, affirms and celebrates the participation and ministry of lesbians and gay men in the church. Conference calls on the Methodist people to begin a pilgrimage of faith to combat repression and discrimination, to work for justice and human rights and to give dignity and worth to people whatever their sexuality.\n\nOn May 7, 2018 the Bishops in the United Methodist Church, a denomination long divided on questions of LGBT equality, have proposed allowing individual pastors and regional church bodies to decide whether to ordain LGBT clergy and perform same-sex weddings. However, this proposal has not been formally approved yet and will be decided between February 23-26, 2019. \n\nThe United Methodist Church (UMC) has a General Conference every four years to make decisions and when a decision is made, they add it to the \"Book of Discipline\". From the 2016 Book of Discipline, the United Methodist Church Website cites multiple decisions on homosexuality. On the basis of membership, all persons are eligible to \"attend its worship services, participate in its programs, receive the sacraments, upon baptism be admitted as baptized members, and upon taking vows declaring the Christian faith, become professing members in any local church in the connection\". Regarding the ministry of the ordained: The practice of homosexuality is incompatible with Christian teaching. Thus self-identifying homosexuals are not \"to be certified as candidates, ordained as ministers, or appointed to serve in The United Methodist Church\". Also, \"ceremonies that celebrate homosexual unions are not to be conducted by our ministers nor in our churches\". On the basis of funds, the UMC does not want any of their ministries' funds used or allocated to LGBTQ+ groups or organizations. Although UMC does not want the funds to be used to condemn any such organizations either.\n\nOn 15 July 2016, Reverend Karen Oliveto became the first openly gay United Methodist Bishop after several annual conferences passed resolutions not to conform with any LGBT discriminatory church laws. UMC Bishops are elected for life. Oliveto is married to Robin Ridenour, who is a deaconess in UMC. \n\nHistory: \nSince 1972, the United Methodist Church, as its official position on homosexuality, has maintained the \"Book of Discipline\" and has declared \"homosexual practice\" to be \"incompatible with Christian teaching.\" Following the 1972 incompatibility clause, other restrictions have been added at subsequent General Conferences. Currently the \"Book of Discipline\" prohibits the ordination of \"practicing, self-avowed homosexuals,\" forbids clergy from blessing or presiding over same-sex unions, forbids the use of UMC facilities for same-sex union ceremonies and prohibits the use of Church funds for \"gay caucuses\", or other groups that \"promote the acceptance of homosexuality.\"\n\nDespite this language, members of the Church are not of one mind on this issue. Preceding the incompatibility clause, the \"Book of Discipline\" clearly states that \"homosexual persons, no less than heterosexual persons, are individuals of sacred worth.\" Some believe that this \"sacred worth\" clause stands in contradiction to the following statement regarding the incompatibility of homosexual practice with Christian teaching. The \"Book of Discipline\" affirms that all persons, both heterosexual and homosexual, are included in the ministry of the church and can receive the gift of God's grace. While the \"Book of Discipline\" supports the civil rights of homosexual persons, and rejects the abuse of homosexuals by families and churches, it also calls for laws defining marriage as a union between one man and one woman.\n\nFailed efforts have been made to pass resolutions to \"fully include gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender persons in the life of the Church\" at General Conferences since the introduction of the incompatibility clause in 1972; delegates from annual conferences in the Northeast and on the West Coast typically vote to do so, but are outnumbered by those from Southeast and Africa.\n\nSome of these issues have come before the Judicial Council. On 31 October 2005, the Council undertook two measures on this topic. Firstly, the Council upheld the revocation of Irene Elizabeth Stroud's clergy status for disclosing she is openly lesbian. The council also rendered a decision allowing a Virginia pastor to deny church membership to a gay man. The latter decision appeared to UMC LGBT proponents to contradict both the Constitution and membership policies of the United Methodist Church which stipulate that membership shall be open to all persons \"without regard to race, color, national origin, status or economic condition.\" The Judicial Council had previously found that the word \"status\" applies to gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender persons (See Decision 1020). Decision 1032 created vigorous debate on the level of autonomy individual pastors and congregations have in interpreting and applying Church doctrine.\n\nIn July 2018, the Uniting Church in Australia voted by national Assembly to approve the creation of official marriage rites for same-sex couples.\n\nThe Metropolitan Community Church is an international fellowship of Christian . It is considered by many to be a full mainline denomination or communion. There are currently 300 congregations in 22 countries, and the Fellowship has a specific outreach to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender communities. Acceptance of homosexuality is an important part of its theology and the church has performed same sex marriage ceremonies since 1968.\n\nThe Metropolitan Community Church was instrumental in the first legal challenges to the heterosexual legal definition of marriage in Ontario (see Same-sex marriage in Ontario). Two couples used an old legal procedure called reading the banns to marry without a licence. When same-sex marriage was legalized in Ontario, their marriages were recognized.\n\nThe Moravian Church declared in 1974 that gays and lesbians were full members of the Christian community. In 2002, the Northern Provincial Synod placed a moratorium for the time being on further decisions about homosexuality. During the 2014 Northern Province Synod, they voted to permit the ordination of gay and lesbian individuals and create a ritual for solemnizing gay relationships in North America. Currently, the questions of marriage and ordination are unresolved in the other provinces in the Moravian Church.\n\nThe New Apostolic Church does not approve of homosexual acts:\nOn the grounds of Biblical tenets and Christian tradition, the New Apostolic Church does not approve of practised homosexuality. It is solely for God to determine whether, and to what extent, a person who is absolutely confirmed in his or her homosexual disposition acquires guilt before God through the practice of his or her homosexuality. In this regard, it should be expressly stated that sexual disposition has no relevance in the pastoral care of our brothers and sisters.\nBrothers and sisters who are practicing homosexuals, or living in a homosexual partnership, cannot carry out ministerial and teaching duties in our Church.\n\nMost churches that are within the Pentecostal Movement view homosexual behavior as a sin. The second largest Pentecostal Church in the USA, the Assemblies of God, makes its view clear on homosexuality in a position paper stating: \"It should be noted at the outset that there is absolutely no affirmation of homosexual behavior found anywhere in Scripture. Rather, the consistent sexual ideal is chastity for those outside a monogamous heterosexual marriage and fidelity for those inside such a marriage. There is also abundant evidence that homosexual behavior, along with illicit heterosexual behavior, is immoral and comes under the judgment of God.\"\n\nThe Church of God (Cleveland, Tennessee) similarly condemns homosexuality. These churches therefore oppose same-sex unions, gay pastors, and would tend to forbid congregants who persist in homosexual practices. Politically, there are likely to support politicians with the same viewpoints. Assemblies of God churches insist that those who engage in homosexual activity should cease such behavior, as with any sin. The Church of God In Christ has taken similar positions which condemn homosexuality and same sex marriage.\n\nThere are, however, a growing number of LGBT affirming Pentecostal churches, both denominations and independent churches. These include the Anointed Affirming Independent Ministries, The Anthem Church was birthed out of the Pentecostal Movement, and merged into an Inter Denominational Fellowship with members from the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, Catholic Church, Episcopalian, APCI/GAAAP and the LDS Church, Affirming Pentecostal Church International, the Covenant Network, the Global Alliance of Affirming Apostolic Pentecostals (GAAAP), and the Fellowship of Reconciling Pentecostals International (RPI). Those Pentecostal churches that are gay affirming base their position on research done into scripture in the original languages, where they believe they find no condemnation of homosexuality.\n\nThe Presbyterian Church (USA) is currently the only Presbyterian Denomination in the United States that allows same-sex marriage, and ordains openly LGBT members in committed relationships as teaching elders (clergy), and ruling elders (elders elected to serve on the Session).\n\nOn Marriage: \nIn 2014, the Presbyterian Church (USA) voted to change its definition of marriage, allowing its pastors to officiate same-sex marriages wherever gay marriage is legal. In addition, By a vote of 429-175, leaders of the 1.76 million-member Church voted during the biennial General Assembly in Detroit to change the denomination's Book of Order to describe marriage as being between \"two people\" (a vote of the individual Presbyteries, which began immediately after the 2014 General Assembly approval, and was completed in 2015).\n\nOn Ordination: \nThe PC(USA) approved the ordination of non-celibate gays on 8 July 2010, when, by a vote of 373 to 323, the General Assembly voted to propose to the presbyteries a constitutional amendment to remove the restriction against the ordination of partnered homosexuals. This action required ratification by a majority of the 173 presbyteries within 12 months for the proposed amendment to take effect. On 10 May 2011, a majority of the presbyteries voted to approve the constitutional change. It took effect on 10 July 2011. Until this vote, denominational policy prohibited non-celibate same-sex relations (as well as non-celibate heterosexual relations outside of marriage) for those serving as ministers or as elders on key church boards. After rancorous debate, that policy was upheld in a vote of presbyteries in 2002, but overruled in 2010. \nThe denomination commissioned a study on the \"peace, unity, and purity\" of the church which found that homosexuality was not, in and of itself, a stumbling block to ordination. The report also suggested that Presbyteries and local governing bodies be the place where case-by-case decisions be made on the \"readiness\" of homosexual candidates for ministry. In 2008 the General Assembly sent to the presbyteries a vote to remove the wording from the constitution of the denomination that is seen as barring homosexuals from ordination (G-6.106b). The 2008 General Assembly also removed all precedent-setting cases and \"authoritative interpretations\" concerning homosexuality since 1978 which were seen by full-inclusion advocates as being stumbling blocks to ordination of homosexual individuals.\n\nOther, smaller American Presbyterian bodies, such as the Presbyterian Church in America, the Evangelical Presbyterian Church, the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church, the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, and the Communion of Reformed Evangelical Churches condemn same-sex sexual behavior as incompatible with Biblical morality, but believe gays and lesbians can repent and abandon the lifestyle.\n\nIn New Zealand the Presbyterian Church of Aotearoa New Zealand has debated homosexuality for many years. In 1985 its General Assembly declared \"Homosexual acts are sinful.\" The most recent decision of the Assembly in 2004 declared \"this church may not accept... anyone involved in a sexual relationship outside of faithful marriage between a man and a woman,\" but added the lemma, \"In relation to homosexuality... this ruling shall not prejudice anyone, who as at the date of this meeting, has been accepted for training, licensed, ordained, or inducted.\"\n\nMany Presbyterians in New Zealand are active in the Association for Reconciling Christians and Congregations, an ecumenical group that supports the full inclusion and participation of all people in the Church, including gay and lesbian persons.\n\nIn America, More Light Presbyterians, a coalition of gay-inclusive congregations, was founded in 1980. Today the organization has 194 member churches, while many more informally endorse its mission to more fully welcome people of all sexualities into the life of the church.\n\nQuakers in many countries, such as Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom, are supportive of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people, seeing this as necessary aspect of the Equality Testimony and part of historical Quaker activism against injustice and oppression. Quakers in these countries have become active in the fight for equality of marriage for same-sex couples, and perform same-sex commitment or marriage ceremonies as part of Quaker business.\n\nIn the United States of America, the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) is deeply divided on the issue. The more conservative members of Friends United Meeting and Friends Evangelical Church consider homosexuality to be sinful; but other Friends, such as those in the Friends General Conference and the more progressive individuals and Monthly Meetings or Churches within Friends United Meeting , strongly support equal ecclesiastical rights for gay and lesbian persons and welcome their full participation as members. Hartford, Connecticut Quakers as far back as 1986 issued a statement recognizing both same-sex and heterosexual celebrations of marriage, and in 1988 the Beacon Hill Quaker Meeting in Massachusetts also issued a statement in support of recognizing same-sex marriage ceremonies. \n\nIn 2009, several Quaker meetings including the Twin Cities Friends Meeting (St. Paul and Minneapolis) announced they would stop signing certificates for opposite-sex marriages until same-sex marriages were fully legalised. Conservative Friends have differing theological stances on homosexuality. Ohio Yearly Meeting of Conservative Friends defines marriage as between one man and one woman; it does not sanction same-sex unions, or accept sexual relationships outside of marriage. The other two Conservative yearly meetings do accept same-sex marriage.\n\nThe majority (52%) of Quakers live in Africa. They do not usually accept homosexuality; for example, Friends Church in Kenya \"condemns homosexuality\" (Kenya has more Quakers than any other country).\n\nHomosexuality is considered in the Roman Catholic Church teaching under two distinct aspects. Homosexuality as an orientation is not considered sinful, though is referred to, in highly technical language, as an \"objective disorder\" as it is seen as \"ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil\". The Church recognizes that homosexuality is an innate condition in most cases, not a choice, and therefore cannot be considered a sin.\n\nHomosexual sexual activity, however, is seen as a \"moral disorder\" and \"homosexual acts\" as \"contrary to the natural law\". The same acts would be considered equally 'contrary to the natural law' if performed by heterosexual couples. \"They close the sexual act to the gift of life. They do not proceed from a genuine effective and sexual complementary.\" It should be noted that the term 'disorder' is used several times throughout The Catechism of the Catholic Church to reference sin in general—e.g. venial sin, sin within marriage, the disorder of divorce, etc. All sin creates a dis-ordering of the direction and proper ordering of nature.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church believes that marriage is only between one man and one woman, and opposes same-sex marriage at both the religious and civil levels. The Church also holds that same-sex unions are an unfavorable environment for children and that the legalization of such unions damages society.\n\nFrom the Catechism of the Catholic Church 2396: \"Among the sins gravely contrary to chastity are masturbation, fornication, pornography, and homosexual practices.\"\n\nThe largest Swedenborgian denomination in North America, the General Church of the New Jerusalem, does not ordain gay and lesbian ministers, but the oldest denomination, the Swedenborgian Church of North America, does. Ministers in Swedenborgian Church of North America may determine individually whether or not they will marry same-sex couples. Ministers of the General Church of the New Jerusalem are not permitted to marry or bless any same-sex couples. \n\nThe Lord's New Church Which Is Nova Hierosolyma has no official doctrine on the debate of homosexuality. Personal opinions vary, but respecting others and not condemning anyone is an important facet of the Lord's New Church: \"Human freedom is necessary if men are to be led in freedom according to reason by the Lord into the life in the Lord which is freedom itself.\" So the Church values the \"expression of the thoughts and feelings of all in the Church provided they are not in opposition to the Essentials and the Principles of Doctrine of the Church\"\n\nThe United Church of Canada, the largest Protestant denomination in Canada, affirms that gay and lesbian persons are welcome in the church and the ministry. The resolution \"A) That all persons, regardless of their sexual orientation, who profess Jesus Christ and obedience to Him, are welcome to be or become full member of the Church. B) All members of the Church are eligible to be considered for the Ordered Ministry.\" was passed in 1988. This was not done, however, without intense debate over what was termed \"the issue\"; some congregations chose to leave the church rather than support the resolution. In August 2012, the governing body of the church, General Council - which gathers trianually to determine the leadership and direction of the church - selected Rev. Gary Paterson to be its moderator. He is believed to be the first openly gay leader of any mainline Christian denomination anywhere in the world.\n\nThe church campaigned starting in 1977 to have the federal government add sexual orientation to federal non-discrimination laws, which was accomplished in 1996. The church has also engaged in activism in favour of the legalization of same-sex marriage in Canada, and on 20 July 2005, Canada became the fourth country in the world and the first country in the Americas and the first country outside Europe to legalize same-sex marriage nationwide with the enactment of the Civil Marriage Act. In 2012, Gary Paterson became first open gay moderator of United Church of Canada.\n\nThe polity of the United Church of Christ (UCC) (which was formed by the General Council of Congregational Christian Churches and the Evangelical and Reformed Church) is such that the views of one setting of the church cannot be unwillingly 'forced' on the Local Church, whether between congregations or between the upper levels of the church and individual congregations. Thus, views on many controversial matters can and do vary among congregations. David Roozen, director of the Hartford Institute for Religion Research who has studied the United Church of Christ, said surveys show the national church's pronouncements are often more liberal than the views in the pews but that its governing structure is set up to allow such disagreements.\n\nThe United Church of Christ General Synod in 1985 passed a resolution entitled \"Calling on United Church of Christ Congregations to Declare Themselves Open and Affirming\" saying that \"the Fifteenth General Synod of the United Church of Christ encourages a policy of non-discrimination in employment, volunteer service and membership policies with regard to sexual orientation; encourages associations, Conferences and all related organizations to adopt a similar policy; and encourages the congregations of the United Church of Christ to adopt a non-discrimination policy and a Covenant of Openness and Affirmation of persons of lesbian, gay and bisexual orientation within the community of faith\". General Synod XIV in 2003 officially added transgender persons to this declaration of full inclusion in the life and leadership of the Church.\n\nIn July 2005, the 25th General Synod encouraged congregations to affirm \"equal marriage rights for all\", and to consider \"wedding policies that do not discriminate based on the gender of the couple.\" The resolution also encouraged congregations to support legislation permitting civil same-sex marriage rights. By the nature of United Church of Christ polity, General Synod resolutions officially speak \"to, but not for\" the other settings of the denomination (local congregations, associations, conferences, and the national offices). This Synod also expressed respect for those bodies within the church that disagree and called for all members \"to engage in serious, respectful, and prayerful discussion of the covenantal relationship of marriage and equal marriage rights for couples regardless of gender.\"\n\nSome associations permit ordination of non-celibate gay clergy and some clergy and congregations are willing to perform or allow same-sex marriages or union services. Approximately 10% of UCC congregations have adopted an \"official\" \"open and affirming\" statement welcoming gay and lesbian persons in all aspects of church life. A few congregations explicitly oppose the General Synod Equal Marriage Rights resolution – an independent movement called \"Faithful and Welcoming Churches(FWC)\" that partly defines faithful as \"Faithful... to the preservation of the family, and to the practice and proclamation of human sexuality as God's gift for marriage between a man and a woman.\" Many congregations have no \"official\" stance; these congregations' \"de facto\" stances vary widely in their degree of welcome toward gay and lesbian persons.\n\nThe United Church of Christ Coalition for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Concerns is one of the officially recognized \"Historically Underrepresented Groups\" in the United Church of Christ, and as such has a dedicated seat on the United Church of Christ Executive Council and a number of other boards. The Biblical Witness Fellowship, a notable conservative renewal organization within the UCC, formed in the 1970s in response to general synods opinions on the sexuality issue and has argued that there \"has been a deliberate and forceful attempt within the mainline church to overthrow Biblical revelation [about] ... what it means to be human particularly in the Biblical revelation of a humanity reflective of God and sexually created for [heterosexual] marriage and family.\"\n\nThe Uniting Church in Australia allows for the membership and ordination of gay and lesbian people. On 17 July 2003 it clarified its 1982 position when the national Assembly meeting stated that people had interpreted the scriptures with integrity in coming to the view that a partnered gay or lesbian person in a committed same sex relationship could be ordained as a minister. It also stated that people who had come to the opposite view had also interpreted the scriptures with integrity. When Presbyteries (regional councils) select candidates for ministry they may use either of these positions, however they cannot formally adopt either position as policy, but must take each person on a case by case basis. By explicitly stating the two positions, this decision fleshes out a 1982 Assembly Standing Committee decision which did not ban people with a homosexual orientation from membership. After emotional debate, the 1997 Assembly did not reach a decision, and the 2000 Assembly decided not to discuss homosexuality.\n\nThe United Reformed Church of Great Britain has committed itself to continue to explore differences of view among its members, in the light of the Church’s understanding of scripture and under the guidance of the Holy Spirit. A detailed report was submitted to the 2007 General Assembly In 2011, The United Reformed Church in United Kingdom allowed the blessing of same-sex unions. As of 9 July 2016 the church formally voted at 240 votes to 21 in favour of allowing same-sex marriages to take place in any of the local churches, although they do allow individual churches to veto this.\n\nThe United States branch of the Association of Vineyard Churches issued a statement on LGBT issues in 2014. The statement \"affirms marriage as a covenantal union between a man and a woman\" and states \"that outside of the boundaries of marriage, the Bible calls for abstinence.\" At the same time, the statement expresses repentance for \"sinful stigmatization\" of homosexual persons and encourages the expression of grace and compassion towards all who are tempted by extramarital sex.\n\nThe following table summarizes various denominational practices concerning members who are currently in a homosexual relationship. See also: Blessing of same-sex unions in Christian churches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29638916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29638916", "title": "List of Pakistani Shia Muslims", "text": "List of Pakistani Shia Muslims\n\nThis list compiles notable Pakistani Shia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2972959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2972959", "title": "List of bishops of Hólar", "text": "List of bishops of Hólar\n\nThe Diocese of Hólar is a suffragan diocese of the Church of Iceland. The Bishop of Hólar is one of two suffragan bishops to the Bishop of Iceland. The Diocese of Hólar existed between 1106 and 1801 when it was amalgamated into the Diocese of Iceland under the leadership of the Bishop of Iceland. In 1909 the diocese was revived as a titular see of the Church of Iceland. \n\nThe following people were bishops of Hólar, Iceland:\n\n\n\nThe Diocese was amalgamated in 1801 and now forms part of the Diocese of Reykjavik.\n\nThe see was discontinued from 1801 to 1909. It was revived in 1909 as a suffragan bishopric to the Bishop of Iceland, with the bishop's cathedra in the traditional Hólar cathedral church. In 1990 fresh legislation increased the authority and responsibilities of the Bishop of Hólar as an assistant bishop in the Reykjavik diocese.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2322211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2322211", "title": "List of the largest Protestant denominations", "text": "List of the largest Protestant denominations\n\nThis is a list of the largest Protestant denominations. It aims to include sizeable Protestant communions, federations, alliances, councils, fellowships, and other denominational organisations in the world and provides information regarding the membership thereof. The list is inevitably partial and generally based on claims by the denominations themselves. The numbers should therefore be considered approximate and the article an ongoing work-in-progress. Protestant bodies being considered in this article are divided into:\n\n\nIn 2010, the most numerous international bodies accounted for more than a half of worldwide Protestant population, while the most numerous national bodies accounted for more than 200 of the world's 800 million Protestants.\n\nTransdenominational organisations are very large and often characterised by overlapping membership as opposed to international and national bodies. Some of the national groupings cannot be considered churches in mainstream Protestant ecclesiology even when they constitute a single denomination. A good example is the Evangelical Church in Germany, which differs denominationally and encompasses Lutheran, Reformed and United subchurches.\n\nTransdenominational bodies include people across all denominations that participate in a movement which goes beyond their Protestant branch, like Evangelicalism, the Charismatic movement, or the Neo-charismatic movement. These are of international scope.\n\nThe World Evangelical Alliance is so far the only major transdenominational evangelical Protestant organization that operates internationally. It represents 600 million Christians. The Porvoo Communion brings Lutherans and Anglicans in Europe under a common communion.\n\nInternational bodies tend to bring together only one Protestant branch which shares common founders, tenets and history. Among the most sizeable international bodies are the Anglican Communion, the World Communion of Reformed Churches, the World Methodist Council and the Lutheran World Federation – each with more than 70 million members.\n\nAlthough there are \"\"mostly national\" denominations\" like the United Methodist Church (mainly concentrated in the United States), or \"denominations with dispersed membership\" like the Apostolic Church and the Church of God (Cleveland, Tennessee) (both with membership dispersed around the world) that have a far larger membership than required to be on this list, they operate worldwide and cannot be considered alongside other national bodies like, for example, the Church of Christ in Congo, which operates solely in the Democratic Republic of Congo and is not active beyond that country's borders.\n\nThe Church of England, the Church of Christ in Congo, the Three-Self Patriotic Movement, the Assembleias de Deus and the Evangelical Church in Germany constitute the most numerous national bodies with more than 20 million members each.\n\nThese denominations operate worldwide and cannot be considered alongside other national bodies.\n\nMany sizeable non-national bodies happen to be Pentecostal. The list also includes the largest Adventist church (the Seventh-day Adventist Church), the largest Methodist church (the United Methodist Church) and the largest African initiated church (the Zion Christian Church) and the second largest Pentecostal denomination in the world, The Pentecostal Mission (TPM) or (New Testament Church/Universal Pentecostal Church/Ceylon Pentecostal Mission).\n\n"}
{"id": "34245779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34245779", "title": "Man-made law", "text": "Man-made law\n\nMan-made law is law that is made by humans, usually considered in opposition to concepts like natural law or divine law. \n\nThe European and American conception of man-made law has changed radically in the period from the Middle Ages to the present day. In the Thomist view of the Middle Ages, man-made law was the lowest form of law, while modern conceptions rank man-made law as fundamental \"because\" it is man-made. The Soviet Union went further, not recognizing any such thing as divine or natural law. In several Islamic countries, man-made law is still considered to be subordinate to divine law.\n\nProfessor Heinz Mohnhaupt of the Max Planck Institute for European History of Law relates man-made law to Hegel's concept of \"Rechtsgesetze\" or \"Laws of Right\", which Hegel placed in opposition to the \"Naturgesetz\" or laws of nature. In the Hegelian view, according to Mohnhaupt, man made law is Rechtsgesetze, or at least a subset thereof. Its characteristics are that it is \"not absolute\", and is created by human beings \"above all\" for the regulation of their actions and behaviour (but also for the ordering of things). It \"has to be generally known\" and \"has to take into account [both] its anthropological determination and [...] its chronological determination\". Man-made law is fluid, changing over time in order to adapt to changing real-world circumstances.\n\nThomas Aquinas expounded the concept of Human Law, a distinct form of law alongside Natural Law and Eternal Law, in \"Summa Theologica\". Thomas asserted the primacy of natural law over man-made law, stating that where it \"is at variance with natural law it will not be a law, but spoilt law\" . The result of any such conflict is that the man-made law does \"not oblige in the court of conscience\" . Natural law theorists and others have thusly challenged many man-made laws over the years, on the grounds that they conflict with what the challengers assert to be natural, or divine, laws.\n\nThomas Aquinas himself conflated man-made law (\"lex humana\") and positive law (\"lex posita\" or \"ius positiva\"). However, there is a subtle distinction between them. Positive law regards law from the position of its legitimacy. Positive law is law by the will of whomever made it, and thus there can equally be divine positive law as there is man-made positive law. (More literally translated, \"lex posita\" is posit\"ed\" rather than posit\"ive\" law.) In the \"Summa contra Gentiles\" Thomas himself writes of divine positive law where he says \"\"Si autem lex sit divinitus posita, auctoritate divina dispensatio fieri potest\" (if the law be divinely given, dispensation can be granted by divine authority)\" and \"\"Lex autem a Deo posita est\" (But the Law was established by God)\". Martin Luther also acknowledged the idea of divine positive law, as did Juan de Torquemada.\n\nThe Thomist concept of man-made law, by contrast, regards law from a different angle. It treats it from the position of its origins. \"lex humana\" or sometimes \"lex humanitus posita\" (as is the case throughout ), but sometimes rather \"lex ab hominibus inventa\" (as is the case in ), is law made by man, rather than made by the divine (\"lex divina\"). What is important about \"lex humana\" is not that it is posited by someone, but that the someone who posits it is human rather than divine.\n\nTo put it in the terms of St. Thomas Aquinas: An unjust law is a human law that is not rooted in eternal law and natural law. Any law that uplifts human personality is just. Dr. Martin Luther King’s “Letter from Birmingham Jail.”\n\nThe European and American conception of man-made law has changed radically in the period from the Middle Ages to the present day. In the Thomist view of the Middle Ages, man-made law was the lowest form of law. Above it were the \"lex naturalis\", the \"lex divina\", and the \"lex aeterna\". Man-made law only had authority in as much as it expressed and concurred with higher laws.\n\nOver the centuries, this idea has been turned on its head. Rather than being a lesser law because it is made by man rather than by the divine, modern conceptions of man-made law rank it as fundamental and supreme law \"because\" it is man-made, thanks to the notion of the sovereignty of the people that saw expression in events such as the American Revolution and French Revolution of the 18th century.\n\nLegal theory in the Soviet Union went further, not recognizing any such thing as divine or natural law, and considering the state to be sovereign. Only man-made law, as made by the state, existed according to Marxist legal theory.\n\nAlthough laws higher than the man-made law of the sovereign people are not formally recognized in the legal theories of countries such as the United States, the Thomist idea of man-made law being subordinate to divine law is still espoused by many people in those countries. For example: Martin Luther King, Jr., in his \"Letter from Birmingham Jail\" cited Thomas Aquinas in his ways to know that a law is unjust:\nIn several Islamic countries, man-made law is still, in 20th and 21st century legal theory, considered to be subordinate to divine law, in the form of the sharia. In that legal theory, the sovereign power is Allah, not the people, and God-made law takes precedence over man-made law. (The full legal position of sharia is complex, varies from country to country, and is considered differently by various groups. For a wider discussion see the sharia article.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2901782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2901782", "title": "Mark Rathbun", "text": "Mark Rathbun\n\nMark C. \"Marty\" Rathbun (born 1957) is a former senior executive of the Church of Scientology who last held the post of Inspector General of the Religious Technology Center (RTC), the organization that is responsible for the protection and enforcement of all Dianetics and Scientology copyrights and trademarks.\n\nAs the lead inspector overseeing the Inspector General Network at the international level, his official duties as described by RTC were to investigate and correct \"instances in which departure from a standard, policy or ethic could betray an organization’s service to its constituent public.\" The post is widely acknowledged as one of the most senior management functions in the hierarchy of the Church and its related organizations. Rathbun left the Church of Scientology in 2004 and became an independent Scientologist, but now considers himself non-religious.\n\nAccording to his official biography, Rathbun became a Church staff member in 1978, and joined the RTC board in 1987. The biography also credits him with having played a major role in various Church victories, including the negotiation of the Church's tax exemption agreement with the Internal Revenue Service in 1993. In 1998, Florida newspaper the \"Tampa Bay Times\" described Rathbun as \"top lieutenant\" to Scientology leader David Miscavige.\n\nIn 1997, \"The New York Times\" reported that according to an internal Scientology publication, Rathbun and Miscavige jump-started stalled negotiations over Scientology's tax status when they made an unscheduled visit to I.R.S. Commissioner Fred T. Goldberg Jr. at the Internal Revenue Service headquarters in Washington in October 1991. The Church of Scientology and Rathbun later denied that there had been an unscheduled meeting between Goldberg, Rathbun and Miscavige that day. The Church said that \"While an internal publication of three years ago does recount Mr. Miscavige approaching the I.R.S., it never states he was granted an unscheduled meeting on demand.\" Rathbun, in a separate letter to the \"New York Times\", explained that the first meeting he and Miscavige had with Goldberg and other I.R.S. officials was approximately one month after their impromptu visit to the I.R.S. building.\n\nAs a Scientology spokesman, Rathbun commented to the same newspaper on the involvement of celebrities in Scientology, saying that \"Scientology works for these people, and they just want to give to others what works for them. We don't give them a badge and send them out. They do it on their own.\" When discussing reluctance among some established churches to collaborate with Scientology under the umbrella of an interfaith organization, he was also quoted as saying that \"Bigotry is born out of ignorance.\"\n\nIn May 2010, Rathbun asserted that during his tenure as Inspector General of the Religious Technology Center, Scientology leader David Miscavige issued him orders that the auditing sessions of celebrity Scientology member, actor Tom Cruise, be secretly videotaped. Rathbun had himself been the individual responsible for performing auditing counseling with Cruise. Rathbun wrote on his blog that he had been tasked with auditing Cruise during the period in 2001 directly after he had separated from Nicole Kidman. Rathbun wrote, \"I audited a number of intensives of confessionals on Tom Cruise from July through November 2001. ... By order of Miscavige many of those sessions were secretly recorded by a well-concealed video camera and voice recorder system built into the VIP auditing room at Celebrity Center International.\" Rathbun subsequently learned that transcripts of the videotapes of Cruise were brought to meetings where they would be discussed by top management of Scientology. Rathbun wrote that Miscavige would read out information from the reports about Cruise's auditing sessions, \"While sipping scotch whisky at the end of the night, Miscavige would read Tom’s overts and withholds ... joking and laughing about the content of Tom’s confessions.\"\n\nThe nature of what was discussed in the confessional sessions by Cruise was not revealed. Rathbun ceased the filming of Cruise in 2002, because he felt it was unethical. Rathbun left the organization in 2004, and since then has given counselling to former members of Scientology. In a post on his blog, Rathbun wrote a statement addressed to Cruise, \"Wake up, Tom. It is not too late. Though, time is getting very, very short.\" , representatives for Cruise had not yet responded to the statements made by Rathbun.\n\nLynn Hayes of \"Beliefnet\" discussed the revelations by Rathbun, writing, \"Religion in any form provides a solid structure that can offer comfort and security, and departure from that security can be frightening and painful. As humans we always have a choice, and it will be interesting to see how Tom Cruise and the Church of Scientology manage this revelation.\" \"El Tiempo\" commented, \"Although Tom Cruise is a staunch supporter and defender of Scientology, apparently other members of this doctrine do not profess the same devotion to the actor.\"\n\nRathbun left the Church of Scientology in 2004 and now offers counselling and auditing services for other Scientologists who have cut their ties with the Church of Scientology. Initially, he considered himself an independent Scientologist, but now considers himself non-religious.\n\nRathbun emerged as a critical source in a 2009 \"St. Petersburg Times\" exposé on the organization, stating that physical violence is a common occurrence within Scientology management, and that Miscavige regularly beats his staff, or orders staff to administer beatings to designated individuals – accusations which the Church of Scientology categorically denies. This reporting series by the \"St. Petersburg Times\" titled \"Inside Scientology: The Truth Rundown\" was recognized with honors including the 2010 Gold Medal for Public Service award from the Florida Society of News Editors, and was a finalist for the 2010 National Headliner Awards in the category of investigative reporting.\n\nA one-hour feature on Mark Rathbun titled \"Scientologists at War\", directed by Joseph Martin and produced by Danielle Clark and Michael Simkin was broadcast on June 17, 2013, on British Channel Four.\n\nOn November 10, 2013, \"The Passionate Eye\", an investigative TV series rebroadcast the program as a premiere in Canada on CBC Television, describing it as an investigation into \"the pressure tactics used to discredit and silence members who leave the church.\"\n\nVideographer Bert Leahy reported being paid $2,000 a week to help document the \"Squirrel Busters\" activities.\n\nRathbun was a participant in the 2015 documentary \"\". In that film, Rathbun alleged the church had wiretapped celebrity Nicole Kidman.\n\nRathbun featured in Louis Theroux's 2015 documentary film \"My Scientology Movie\" where he recreated incidents within the church he and other ex-Scientologists had witnessed. After the filming of \"My Scientology Movie\", Rathbun criticized Theroux for what he described as \"morally bankrupt tactics\" in the production of the documentary, and withdrew his support from its promotion. Rathbun claimed that Theroux deliberately attempted to provoke the Scientologists filmed for the film, and over-dramatized the scenes recreating alleged abuses that had taken place in the Church.\n\nIn 2013, Mark Rathbun's wife, a non-Scientologist, filed suit against the Church of Scientology, alleging four years of harassment by the church. In October 2014, Rathbun filmed an encounter which he claimed showed three members of the church's top management abusing him at Los Angeles International Airport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2436129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2436129", "title": "Matha", "text": "Matha\n\nA matha (मठ, IAST: ) or mutt is a Sanskrit word that means \"cloister, institute or college\", and it also refers to a monastery in Hinduism.\n\nMonastic life, for spiritual studies or the pursuit of moksha (spiritual liberation) traces it roots to the 1st millennium BCE, in the Vedic tradition. The earliest Hindu monasteries (\"mathas\") are indirectly inferred to be from the centuries around the start of the common era, based on the existence of Sannyasa Upanishads with strongly Advaita Vedanta content. The \"matha\" tradition in Hinduism was likely well established in the second half of 1st millennium CE, as is evidenced by archeological and epigraphical evidence.\n\n\"Mathas\" grew over time, with the most famous and still surviving centers of Vedanta studies being those started by Adi Shankara. Other major and influential \"mathas\" belong to various schools of Hindu philosophy, such as those of Vaishnavism and Shaivism. The monastery host and feed students, sannyasis (monks, renouncers, ascetics), gurus and are led by \"Acharyas\". These monasteries are sometimes attached to Hindu temples and have their codes of conduct, initiation and election ceremonies. The \"mathas\" in the Hindu tradition have not been limited to religious studies, and historical evidence suggest that they were centers for diverse studies such as medieval medicine, grammar and music.\n\nThe term matha is also used for monastery in Jainism, and the earliest monasteries near Jain temples are dated to be from about the 5th-century CE.\n\nA \"matha\" (Sanskrit: मठ) refers to \"cloister, institute or college\", and in some contexts refers to \"hut of an ascetic, monk or renunciate\" or temple for studies. The root of the word is \"math\", which means \"inhabit\" or \"to grind\".\n\nThe roots of monastic life are traceable in the Vedic literature, which states Jacobi likely predates Buddhism and Jainism. According to Hermann Jacobi, Max Muller, Hermann Oldenberg and other scholars, the Jainism and Buddhism traditions adopted the five precepts first developed in the Vedic-Brahmanical traditions for monk life:\n\n\nHowever, in 20th century, scholars such as Richard Garbe suggested that the pre-Upanishad Vedic tradition may not have had a monastic tradition, and that the Upanishads, Jainism and Buddhism may have been new movements that grew, partly in opposition, on the foundations and ideas of earlier Vedic practices. The asceticism and monastic practices possibly emerged in India in the early centuries of the 1st millennium BCE. Johannes Bronkhorst has proposed a dual model, wherein monastic traditions and matha began in parallel, both in Vedic and non-Vedic streams of traditions, citing evidence from ancient Hindu Dharmasutras dated to have been composed between 500 BCE to about the start of the common era. Other evidence of \"mathas\" is found in the Brahmanas layer of the Vedic texts, such as in chapter 10.6 of Shatapatha Brahmana (Yajurveda) as well as in the surviving Aranyaka layer of the Vedas such as in chapter 15 of Shankhayana Aranyaka.\n\nScholars such as Patrick Olivelle state that the history of Hindu monasteries played a role in the composition of the Sannyasa Upanishads of Hinduism. Six of these Upanishads were composed before the 3rd-century CE, probably starting sometime in the last centuries of the 1st millennium BCE. These six Sannyasa Upanishads are Aruni Upanishad, Kundika Upanishad, Kathashruti Upanishad, Paramahamsa Upanishad, Jabala Upanishad and Brahma Upanishad.\n\nThe oldest Sannyasa Upanishads have a strong Advaita Vedanta outlook, and these pre-date Adi Shankara. Most of the Sannyasa Upanishads present a Yoga and nondualism (Advaita) Vedanta philosophy. This may be, states Patrick Olivelle, because major Hindu monasteries (\"matha\") belonged to the Advaita Vedanta tradition. Almost all medieval Sannyasa Upanishads are also Advaita Vedantin because of these monasteries. The only significant exception is the 12th-century Shatyayaniya Upanishad, which presents qualified dualistic and Vaishnavism (Vishishtadvaita Vedanta) philosophy and is likely linked to a Vaishnavism monastery.\n\nIn addition to the Upanishads, evidence of \"matha\" tradition in Hinduism is found in other genre of its literature, such as chapter 12.139 of the Mahabharata and section 3.1 of Baudhayana Dharmasutras. \"Matha-s\" were regionally known by other terms, such as \"Ghatika-s\" and \"Khandika-s\". The oldest verifiable \"Ghatika\" for Vedic studies, from inscription evidence is in Kanchi, from the 4th-century CE.\n\nThe \"matha\" tradition of Hinduism attracted royal patronage, attracting endowments to support studies, and these endowments established, states Hartmut Scharfe, what may be \"the earliest case on record of a university scholarship\". Some of these medieval era \"mathas\" of Hinduism in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, were for Vedanta studies, but some \"mathas\" from the 700 to 1000 CE period predominantly focussed on Shaivism, Vaishnavism, military, martial arts, music, painting or other fields of knowledge including subjects related to Buddhism and Jainism. There is evidence, states Hartmut Scharfe, of \"mathas\" in eastern and northern India from 7th century CE onwards, such as those in Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh particularly in the Hindu holy city of Kashi, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha, but these are not from ancient temple inscriptions, but implied from traveller records (Chinese) who visited these regions.\n\nBrahmins were likely involved in the education and oral culture of textual transmission in ancient India through the \"gurukul\" tradition, but inscription evidence collected by E. Hultzsch suggests that at least some \"matha\" attached to temples were dominated by non-Brahmins by the early 2nd millennium CE.\n\nThe \"mathas\" and attached temples routinely hosted debating, Vedic recital and student competitions, and these were part of community festivals in the history of South Asia. These \"mathas\" were also the centers where many new texts were composed, as well as the libraries and repository of ancient and medieval manuscripts, where the old texts were preserved and decaying copies replaced over the centuries. Some scholars such as the 8th-century Adi Shankara who established four major \"mathas\" in different regions of India, stated in the founding documents that the respective responsibility of the mathas was to preserve one Veda each. Some Hindu monasteries offered hospice care for pilgrims and various forms of assistance to their local communities.\n\nAccording to Kenneth G. Zysk – a professor specializing in Indology and ancient medicine, Hindu \"mathas\" and temples – like Buddhist monasteries – had by the 10th-century attached medical care along with their religious and educational roles. This is evidenced by various inscriptions found in Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and elsewhere. An inscription dated to about 930 CE states the provision of a physician to two \"matha\" to care for the sick and destitute. Similarly, a stone inscription in Andhra Pradesh dated to about 1262 CE mentions the provision of a \"prasutishala\" (maternity house), \"vaidya\" (physician), an \"arogyashala\" (health house) and a \"viprasattra\" (kitchen) with the religious center where people from all social background could be fed and cared for.\n\nThe \"matha\" is a monastery, often with numerous students, many teachers and an institutionalized structure to help sustain and maintain its daily operations. Their organization is more sophisticated than an \"Ashrama\" or \"Gurukul\" which is usually boutique and caters to a smaller group of students. A \"matha\", like a college, designates teaching, administrative and community interaction functions, with prefix or suffix to names, with titles such as \"Guru\", \"Acharya\", \"Swami\" and others. In Lingayat Shaiva \"mathas\" for example, teachers are \"Gurus\", the administrative functions the responsibilities of Acharyas, and the community relations of \"Swami\". A similar organization is found in Vaishnava \"mathas\".\n\nThe word \"Acharya\" in Hindu monastic tradition refers to either a Guru of high rank, or more often to the leader of a monastery and \"sampradaya\" (teaching institution, denomination). This position typically involves a ceremonial initiation called \"diksha\" by the monastery, where the earlier leader anoints the successor as \"Acharya\".\n\nIn large denominations that ran a collection of historical monasteries, an \"Acharya\" may refer to the leader of a regional monastery school operated in that denomination. Alternate titles of the heads of Hindu monasteries are \"Jeer\", \"Jiyar\" or \"Ciyar\". The chief of a collection of large Hindu monasteries in a \"sampradaya\" has been sometimes referred to as \"Jagad guru\".\n\nThe \"matha\" host not only students but many \"Guru\". A \"Guru\", in Hindu tradition, is someone who is a \"teacher, guide or master\" of certain knowledge. He or she is someone more than a teacher, traditionally a reverential figure to the student, with the \"guru\" serving as a \"counselor, who helps mold values, shares experiential knowledge as much as literal knowledge, an exemplar in life, an inspirational source and who helps in the spiritual evolution of a student.\" The term also refers to someone who primarily is one's spiritual guide, who helps one to discover the same potentialities that the \"guru\" has already realized. The \"guru\" concept is traceable to ancient Vedic times, found in traditional schools as well as a \"matha\".\n\nThe oldest references to the concept of \"guru\" are found in the earliest Vedic texts of Hinduism. The \"guru\", and \"gurukul\" – a school run by \"guru\", were an established tradition in India by the 1st millennium BCE, and these helped compose and transmit the various Vedas, the Upanishads, texts of various schools of Hindu philosophy, and post-Vedic Shastras ranging from spiritual knowledge to various arts. The \"mathas\" hosted these teachers and their students as they pursued their studies.\n\nBy about mid 1st millennium CE, archaeological and epigraphical evidence suggest numerous larger institutions of \"gurus\" existed in India, some near Hindu temples, where guru-shishya tradition helped preserve, create and transmit various fields of knowledge. The first epigraphical evidence of a Shaiva \"matha\", for example, dates to around 800 CE, which was attached to a temple. It hosted scholars and students for theosophical studies. Another inscription from about 1100 CE, states Hartmut Scharfe, attests that a \"matha\" was the center of medieval medical studies (Charaka Samhita) and of Vedic grammar in Tamil Nadu.\n\nMadhvacharya, the founder of Dvaita Vedanta school of Hindu philosophy, studied in an Advaita Vedanta monastery like Ramanuja, then disagreed with Advaita, launched theistic Dvaita school of Vedanta interpretation, then established eight \"mathas\" (monasteries) in Udupi by early 13th century. These are referred to as \"Madhva mathas\", or \"Ashta Mathas of Udupi\", and include Palimaru matha, Adamaru matha, Krishnapura matha, Puttige Matha, Shirur matha, Sodhe matha, Kaniyooru matha and Pejavara matha. These eight surround the \"Anantheswara\" Krishna Hindu temple. The matha are laid out in a rectangle, the temples on a square grid pattern. The monks in the matha are sannyasis, and the tradition of their studies and succession (\"Paryaya\" system) were established by Madhvacharya.\n\nThere are Madhva mathas set up all over India. Including those in Udupi, there are twenty four Madhva mathas in India. The main center of Madhva's tradition is in Karnataka. The monastery has a pontiff system, that rotates after a fixed period of time. The pontiff is called \"Swamiji\", and he leads daily Krishna prayers according to Madhva tradition, as well as annual festivals. The process and Vedic mantra rituals for Krishna worship in Dvaita monasteries follow the procedure written by Madhvacharya in \"Tantrasara\".\n\nThe succession ceremony in Dvaita school involves the outgoing Swamiji welcoming the incoming one, then walking together to the icon of Madhvacharya at the entrance of Krishna temple in Udupi, offering water to him, expressing reverence then handing over the same vessel with water that Madhvacharya used when he handed over the leadership of the monastery he founded.\n\nThe monastery include kitchens, \"bhojan-shala\", run by monks and volunteers. These serve food daily to nearly 3,000 to 4,000 monks, students and visiting pilgrims without social discrimination. During succession ceremonies, over 10,000 people are served a vegetarian meal by Udupi \"bhojan-shalas\".\n\nOther Dvaita Mathas include:\n\nRamanuja, the Sri Vaishnavism philosopher, studied at an Advaita Vedanta monastery with Yadava Prakasha before disagreeing with Advaita idealism, and launching his Vishishtadvaita (qualified Advaita) philosophy. Ramanuja was nominated as the leader of the Srirangam matha, after the death of Yamunacharya, though they never met. Along with his philosophy, Ramanuja is famous for his organizational skills and the lasting institutional reforms he introduced at Srirangam paralleling those at Advaita monasteries of his time. He also travelled and founded many Sri Vaishnavism \"mathas\" across India. The Sri Vaishnavism tradition believes that Ramanuja started 700 mathas, but historical evidence suggests several of these were started later.\n\nThe Sri Vaishnavism mathas over time, subdivided into two, those with Tenkalai (southern) tradition and Vadakalai (northern) tradition of Sri Vaishnavism. The Tenkalai-associated mathas are headquartered at Srirangam, while Vadakalai mathas are associated with Kanchipuram. Both these traditions have from 10th-century onwards considered the function of \"mathas\" to include feeding the poor and devotees who visit, hosting marriages and community festivals, farming temple lands and flower gardens as a source for food and worship ingredients, being open to pilgrims as rest houses, and this philanthropic role of these Hindu monasteries continues. In the 15th-century, these monasteries expanded by establishing \"Ramanuja-kuta\" in major South Indian Sri Vaishnavism locations.\n\nSome Srivaishnavism monasteries include:\n\nNimbarka, a scholar variously dated to be from 11th to 13th century, proposed a compromise that was inclusive of all Vedanta schools, stating that everyone is right, that truth is simultaneously Advaita, Vishishtadvaita and Dvaita at the same time, calling his philosophy as Dvaitadvaita or Bhedabheda system. He moved to Vrindavan-Mathura, and launched a \"matha\" centered around loving devotion to Radha-Krishna (Radheshyam) worship. This group emphasized togetherness of community, public singing and constant bhakti. The \"Mathas\" of this group are:\n\nRamananda was a 14th-century Vaishnava devotional poet sant of Bhakti movement, in the Ganges river region of Northern India. He studied in an Advaita Vedanta monastery, joined the Ramanuja's Sri Vaishnavism tradition, then proceeded to start god Rama-based Vaishnavism movement from Hindu holy city of Varanasi. The Hindu tradition recognizes him as the founder of the Ramanandi Sampradaya, the largest monastic Hindu renunciant community in modern times. The monasteries of these ascetics are found particularly in the northern and western states of India, in Nepal, but they are also found as wandering monks.\n\nThe largest \"mathas\" of the Ramanandi tradition are in Ayodhya and Varanasi, and Ramanandi monks are also known as \"Bairagis\" or \"Vairagis\" (literally, detached ones), their groups called \"Akharas\". The Ramanandi \"mathas\" are historically notable for being part of warrior ascetics movement in medieval India, where monks metamorphosed into a militant group, trained in arms, rebelled against Islamic rule and at times cooperated with the British colonial officials as mercenaries.\n\nKnown for his egalitarian views in a time of political uncertainty and Hindu-Islam conflicts, Ramananda and his matha accepted disciples without discriminating anyone by gender, class, caste or religion (he accepted Muslims). Traditional scholarship holds that his disciples included later Bhakti movement \"poet-sants\" such as Kabir, Ravidas, Bhagat Pipa and others, however some postmodern scholars have questioned some of this spiritual lineage while others have supported this lineage with historical evidence. His ideas also influenced the founding of Sikhism in 15th century, and his teachings are included in the Sikh scripture Guru Granth Sahib. Adhyatma Ramayana is a key text of this \"matha\".\n\n\nShaiva mathas were established at least from the 1st millennium onwards, in Kashmir, Himalayan regions such as Nepal and throughout the subcontinent such as in Tamil Nadu. Many of the monasteries and attached temples, particularly in the northwest Indian subcontinent, were destroyed by Islamic armies after the 12th-century, and Shaiva monastic network severely disrupted from the consequent violence. In some cases, the Hindu monasteries were converted into Islamic ribats or madrasa (soldier barracks, schools) during the medieval period. The Shaiva monasteries have been from diverse schools of Shaivism, ranging from nondualist to theistic schools, and regionally went by a range of names such as \"Jogi\" (Yogis), \"Natha\", \"Darshani\", \"Kanphata\" of Gorakshanath \"sampradaya\".\n\nShankara is regarded as the founder of the most famous monasteries in Hinduism. These have hosted the under four Maṭhas, with the headquarters at Dwarka in the West, Jagannatha Puri in the East, Sringeri in the South and Badrinath in the North. Each math was headed by one of his disciples, called Shankaracharya, who each independently continued the Advaita Vedanta Sampradaya. The ten Shankara-linked Advaita monastic orders are distributed as follows: Bharati, Puri and Saraswati at Sringeri, Aranya and Vana at Puri, Tirtha and Ashrama at Dwarka, and Giri, Parvata and Sagara at Badrinath.\n\nThe mathas which Shankara built exist until today, and continue the teachings and influence of Shankara.\n\nThe table below gives an overview of the four largest Advaita Mathas founded by Adi Shankara, and their details. However, evidence suggests that Shankara established more \"mathas\" locally for Vedanta studies and its propagation, states Hartmut Scharfe, such as the \"four mathas in the city of Trichur alone, that were headed by Trotaka, Sureshvara, Hastamalaka and Padmapada\".\n\nOther Advaita Vedanta mathas following Smarta Tradition include:\n\nShaiva Siddhanta is a theistic school of Shaivism based on dualism (human soul and God are different), and it established \"matha\" at least from the middle of 1st millennium CE. Archeological evidence dated to 724 CE suggests the existence of an influential Saiva Siddhanta matha named after \"Mattamayura\". Other historical evidence suggests that these Shaiva monks were active in Shaiva theosophical scholarship and the spread of Shaiva ideas in north and west India till about the 12th century.\n\nOther major monasteries include the Golaki matha that existed by the 10th century, famed for its round temple shape, probably near modern Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh. This monastery featured a cluster of Shiva temples, a hospital, college and lodging for students. The Golaki matha was a center for Vedic studies with parallel studies of Buddhist literature. Inscription evidence suggests set up numerous Shaiva monasteries in the Deccan region under Kakatiya dynasty sponsorship, many of which were destroyed in Hindu-Muslim wars that ended the Kakatiya rule. The origins of Golaki matha of central India has been traced to more ancient monasteries in Kashmir.\n\nIn Karnataka, historical evidence suggests that Queen Alhanadevi established the Shaiva monastery called Kodiya matha which included a temple, monastic lodging and study hall, with scholarship on Vedas, Shastras and Puranas. The Chola dynasty sponsored many influential Shaiva mathas. While many Shaiva monasteries had attached temples, some did not and were entirely dedicated to education and scholarship.\n\nThe Nath tradition is a syncretic Yoga and Vedanta schools of Hindu philosophy based Shaiva tradition, that reveres Shiva and Dattatreya. Its founding is attributed to the ideas of Matsyendranath and Gorakshanath, developed further with an additional seven other Siddha Yoga Gurus called \"Naths\" (literally, lords). The Nath Yogi \"sampradaya\" and monastic organizations grew starting with the 13th century, with its matha headquarters in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh. Many of their mathas are found in the northern, central and western states of India particularly in the Himalayas, but archeological inscriptions suggest their mathas existed in south India as well. The early Nath monks received endowments in Karnataka, for example, between the 10th and 13th century, which later became a temple and Shaiva matha hub for them near Mangalore. The Kadri matha, for instance, is one of the legendary monasteries in the Nath tradition which attracted converts from Buddhism and infusion of Buddhist ideas into Shaivism, and it continues to be a part of the Nath Shaiva tradition, particularly during the Kumbh Mela celebrations in modern times.\nThe Nath Siddha tradition of Shaivism is credited with establishing numerous Shiva Hindu temples and monasteries, particularly in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, north Bihar, and Nepal. The Gorakhnath matha is an active Shaivism monastery named after the medieval saint, Gorakhnath of the Nath sampradaya. The matha and town of Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh is named after him. The monastery and the temple performs various cultural and social activities and serves as the cultural hub of the city. The monastery also publishes texts on the philosophy of Gorakhnath.\n\nNath Shaiva monastic organization was one of those Hindu monk groups that militarized and took up arms following the Muslim conquest of India, to resist persecution. They were scorned and persecuted by Mughal Empire officials, and by social, cultural and religious elites. However, the Nath yogi monks have been very popular with the rural population in South Asia since medieval times.\n\nThe \"matha\" monastic organization has been active since the emergence of Lingayat movement in Karnataka around the 12th century. They have enjoyed community support, and have served as the center for Shaiva studies as well as Lingayat community's educational, cultural and philanthropic activities. There have been six active large Lingayat monasteries, one each at Kedaranath (Himalayas), Kashi (Varanasi, Ganges), Srisaila (Andhra Pradesh), Kalyana, Rambhapuri-Balehalli and Ujjain (all three in Karnataka). There are smaller Vira-Shaiva monasteries, and rural branch monasteries, across India that serve the needs of the local Lingayat communities.\n\nThe Lingayat monasteries have associated priestly class who are referred to as the \"Jangamas\", but this class is not part of the monastery and often householders. Anyone, from any social class, can become a Lingayat monk and join its monastery, and the internal organization has allowed social mobility from its earliest days. The \"Jangamas\" often officiate rites of passage, such as wedding. The succession in Lingayat branch monasteries may be appointed either by the main monastery, or the local chief may name his successor.\n\n\nJain monasteries, states Paul Dundas, have also been called \"Matha\". Archaeological evidence from Tamil Nadu, which has generally survived better than rest of South Asia, suggest monasteries were being built near Jain temples in south India in about the 5th-century CE, and these hosted naked monks of Jainism. In other parts, Jaina mathas received royal support along with Buddhist and Hindu monasteries. According to Jaina texts of the 13th to 15th century, such as by the historian Srutasagara Gani, Jaina monks in these \"matha\" were persecuted by Muslim officials for their way of life, thereby suggesting that the \"matha\" tradition had continued in the first half of the 2nd millennium.\n\nThe term \"matha\" is also used for Jain monasteries. Some Jain Mathas are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46739391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46739391", "title": "Mesopotamian prayer", "text": "Mesopotamian prayer\n\nMesopotamian prayer are the prayers of the place and era known as ancient Mesopotamia. There are nine classifications of poem used within Mesopotamia.\n\nA definition of prayers of Mesopotamia is \"praise to god followed by request\" (this definition is according to \"T. Oshima\").<ref name=\"Review (2012) by Journal of Hebrew Scriptures (designation DOI:10.5508/jhs.2012.v12.r17) of\"></ref>\n\nAccording to one source (Bromiley) the form of the word, known and used to signify prayers during the Mesopotamian era, is described today as šu-il-lá. With regards to šu-il-lá, the scholars \"Lambert\", \"van der Toorn\" and \"Oshima\" posit an alternative use for the term, which they submit is instead with reference to the way in which a prayer is to be recited, not a general signifier (rubric) for prayer itself (a notion expressed by \"Bromiley\").\n\nŠu-il-lá is held to refer to an act of praying, by prayer exhibited by either \"lifting of hands\", \"to lift hands\", or \"to lift the hand\".\n\nPrayers are divided into the following classifications: Incantation prayers, Ershaḫungas, Gottesbriefe, Ikribus, Royal, Tamitas and other queries, Hymns, Šigû, and Namburbi.\n\nTribal specialists in ritual were required to perform incantations to accompany the use of texts known, for example, from Ugarit which are attested to contain ways to aid in the removal of snake-venom. Ugarit is also known to have contained additional health-related incantation texts.\n\nThe term \"Gottesbriefe\" is literally, petition-prayers, or letter prayers. They were mostly in the form of pleas for relief from illness and for the deliverance of personal longevity.\n\nThese prayers were performed for the purposes of divining.\n\nAnother source shows \"ikribū\" were benedictions.\n\nThe rulers' (Kings of Babylonia) prayers were made to a variety of deities, for example Marduk (the god of Babylonia), Nabû, Ŝamaš. The kings had inscribed prayers made onto cylinders made of clay and kept within buildings, in order to fulfill this function. Prayers of this type tended to not be for reason of the seeking of mercy and salvation as is found in \"Šuila\" prayers.\n\nBy study of the prayers, it seems apparent to scholars, that these types of prayers seem to be reformations of earlier topos made, for example, in a similar vein to prayers such as the \"Prayer to the Gods of the Night\".\n\nŠigû are lamentations. Lamentations are either complaints, or expressions of grief or sorrow. Both meanings are related (combined) within šigû.\n\nPrayers of this classification were performed during namburbi rituals. These rituals were undertaken firstly if an omen announced a fate that was evil, and a person wished to counter-act the fate, and secondly to counter witchcraft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59113262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59113262", "title": "Michal Cole", "text": "Michal Cole\n\nMichal Cole is a British-Israeli artist born in Haifa, Israel in 1974 to parents who emigrated from Morocco. She works primarily with the mediums of photography, video, tapestry, sculpture, watercolour and uses money in her works.\n\nAfter completing her service in the Israeli Defence Forces, Michal left Israel in the mid 1990s and travelled to Paris to take foundational art courses, while being homeless for a period of time. She settled in London in 1997, where she pursued her Bachelor of Arts in Fine Art from Central Saint Martin’s College of Art & Design. While attending university she created a number of works in which she used fragments of real money. A group of bankers were interested in buying many of her works and ended up becoming inappropriately sexual in their language with her. After they gave her their ties after believing she was flirting with them, she used them as inspiration and materials for her 2017 Venice Biennale Pavilion of Humanity exhibition \"Top Gun.\" Cole later completed her Master of Art in Fine Art from Chelsea College of Arts at the University of the Arts London in 2013.\n\nIn Michal Cole’s textile pieces \"Inferno\", 2013 and \"Clamare\", 2013, Cole referenced famous art pieces such as Sandro Botticelli's \"Mappa dell’Inferno\" and Edvard Munch's \"The Scream\" with lavish colours and cheerful compositions through textiles. She attempted to bring religious figurative paintings back to life through the more contemporary medium of tapestry that more accurately depicted current views and beliefs as a reflection of society.\n\nExhibited at the 2017 Venice Biennale, Michal Cole created a work titled \"Top Gun\" in the Pavilion of Humanity, which was made of tens of thousands of used men’s ties including those of men she knew and men who had either harassed her or her friends. The ties were strenuously tied together to cover the floor, walls, a fireplace, a sofa, a pipe, a mounted moose on the wall and a rifle which all encompass a traditionally masculine styled living room. Ties were specifically chosen as they represent a piece of clothing typically worn by men for historically masculine activities such as boardroom and workplace life, witnessing business deals, hiring employees, and winding down at a pub. Cole’s intention of the subject was to comment on the oppression of women that is more apparent under Donald Trump’s government than ever before; including issues such as the gender pay gap, sexual harassment and a predominantly male political office. The piece similarly spoke to personal inequalities that were apparent in Cole’s life, such as her being a victim of sexual abuse, serving mandatory time in the military where hundreds of cases of sexual assault are disregarded, and her grandmother being a child bride.\n\nMichal Cole’s use of textiles has been exhibited in pieces such as \"After Caravaggio\" and \"Roses\" in a process where she replicated famous paintings and destroyed them before the paint had dried. The pieces were later transformed in to fabric textiles, which involved mapping out and recreating the paintings with materials such as Tibetan highland wool, Bikaner wool, Chinese silk and nettle.\n\nMichal Cole exhibited a site-specific video installation at Ex Bazzi Gallery at the 2015 Venice Biennale’s Pavilion of Humanity titled \"Mute-Ululation.\" This work addresses Cole’s identity as a resident of England who is of Sephardi ethnicity. For this installation, Michal travelled to Morocco and Israel and filmed women’s mouths while performing the traditional celebratory ululation: a long, repetitive, high-pitched vocal sound that involves the rapid movement of the tongue side to side in the mouth. On three walls in a darkened room, the videos of these women assemble frame-by-frame until there are hundreds of mouths simultaneously performing the ululation at a loud volume. This work was used to showcase a unifying bond amongst women that transcends geographical borders, religions and ideologies, while empowering these women and showcasing their poetic happiness and expression. It similarly is a piece in which Cole grapples with her own identity as having significant elements of her life that are tied in Middle-Eastern and Moroccan culture while having adopted aspects of Western culture due to living in the United Kingdom.\n\nAfter numerous visits to Istanbul, Michal Cole met Ekin Onat, a Turkish Muslim artist who addresses female and political issues of contemporary Turkey. The two staged their joint project \"Objection\" in the Pavilion of Humanity at the 2017 Venice Biennale. The project revolved around the notion of the home, based on their independent yet complementary artistic interpretations.\n\nThe exhibition, which featured a number of rooms in an artificial home included Cole’s textile room \"Top Gun and\" raised the question of the role of arts and culture in times of crisis, political upheaval and change while uniformly making an argument of compassion and non-violent protest. Both women transformed the Venetian villa “to give an artistic home to women’s rights and free speech.”\n\nThrough the numerous rooms in the home, both artists contemplate with political oppression and the power of speech, which is shown in Cole’s \"Domestic Godless,\" a video installation in the kitchen which showcased different videos coming from screens inside cups, bowls and teapots, in which the subject is shown to be screaming. The videos are meant to be representative of a time in Cole’s life where she was left ‘howling like an injured dog’ and addresses the role of women across all planes of human existence. Specifically it showcases how inner frustrations at unrealistic pressures are universally placed upon women, such as being beautiful, smart, maternal, and sexual. In the traditionally feminized location of the kitchen, the screams and female outrage can be heard coming from the videos, giving the voice to the woman, where she would have traditionally taken on a role of servitude.\n\nThe upper floor of the home held collaborative works by the two artists titled \"The Journey Between Human Being\" and \"Being Human.\" Voices could be heard coming from behind a locked door and when the listener approached the keyhole in an attempt to get the clearest sound, the voices became increasingly overlapped making it apparent that different languages were being spoken between the women. The themes of speaking and silence continued in the master bedroom, where \"Absent Presence\" is a life-like model of the artist sitting with their backs facing one-another on the bed.\n\nApart from showcasing work twice at the Venice Biennale, in 2015 and 2017, as well as exhibiting in Sotheby’s Michal Cole has exhibited her work worldwide to much acclaim. She is the winner of the My Art Space Scope Miami competition, the 2011 Signature Art Awards, the Saatchi Gallery’s Showdown competition award in London.\n\nAfter visiting London as a teenager, Cole built a group titled the \"Heavy Metalists\" in Tel Aviv which took over nightclubs and formed a mini revolution of anarchy and mayhem. The intention of the group was to challenge existing local beliefs, views, fashion and musical tastes by communicating new ideas of freedom, specifically artistic freedom, atheism and passion for challenging conformity. The group, led by Cole until the age of 18, grew in popularity and was featured in mainstream media. After running away to Paris when she was 17 in an attempt to avoid recruitment, Cole was recruited at age 18 to the Israeli Defense Forces to serve mandatory military service.\n\nMichal Cole’s parents are Moroccan Jews who trace their roots back to the Jews of Spain who migrated to Morocco after the Spanish Inquisition. Her parents left Morocco in the early 1950s, being deported by sea to Israel where they were placed in refugee camps and suffered poverty and racial discrimination as a new minority in Israel. Much of Cole’s work involves the notions of displacement and exile – both internal and external. Due to the merging of her Moroccan-Israeli ethnicity and adopted Western cultural aspects, she explores the collisions of tradition and modernity while similarly delving in to the roles of women and the absurdity of global inequality in her work.\n\nMichal Cole uses her artworks as a form of celebration and examination of the human condition while inviting the viewer to contemplate the beauty, joy, and humour of life set against the uncontrollable social, economic, political and religious injustices and hypocrisies that inevitably affect us. She is specifically fascinated by moments of transition – economical transitions, religious shifts, the collapse of beliefs and infrastructures and loss of faith. Cole attempts to envision the possibility of order born from chaos and mayhem, creativity out of destruction and inspiration derived from man’s fallibility and stupidity.\n\nThe artist Cole is most inspired by is Caravaggio due to his rebelliousness and insanity, and the eroticism, drama and violence of his work. She spent a summer touring Italy in search of his original artworks.\n"}
{"id": "33983811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33983811", "title": "Morenu", "text": "Morenu\n\nMorenu (, lit. \"our teacher\") is a customary religious title for a Jewish man with high religious education. This term has been used since the mid-14th Century and has a Talmudic origin. The title is generally considered a prerequisite for fulfilling the duties of a rabbi. This title was placed before the name of the scholar in question. For example, the abbreviation MaHaRiL stands for Morenu ha-Rav Loew. \"This title was first used in Germany, and after R. Meïr b. Baruk ha-Levi, rabbi of Vienna (1360-90), had revived the ancient custom of ordination (\"semikhah\"), every one ordained as rabbi received the degree of morenu. The first who bore this title were, according to David Gans, R. Shalom of Austria, rabbi of Wiener-Neustadt, and R. Jacob Mölln (MaHaRiL)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1468762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1468762", "title": "Mughal gardens", "text": "Mughal gardens\n\nMughal gardens are a group of gardens built by the Mughals in the Persian style of architecture. This style was heavily influenced by the Persian gardens particularly the Charbagh structure. Significant use of rectilinear layouts are made within the walled enclosures. Some of the typical features include pools, fountains and canals inside the gardens.\n\nThe founder of the Mughal empire, Babur, described his favourite type of garden as a charbagh. They use the term bāgh, baug, bageecha or bagicha for garden. This word developed a new meaning in India, as Babur explains; India lacked the fast-flowing streams required for the Central Asian charbagh. The Agra garden, which was renamed after Partition of India as the Ram Bagh, since it lied in Hindu majority portion is thought to have been the first charbagh. India, Bangladesh and Pakistan have a number of Mughal gardens which differ from their Central Asian predecessors with respect to \"the highly disciplined geometry\". An early textual references about Mughal gardens are found in the memoirs and biographies of the Mughal emperors, including those of Babur, Humayun and Akbar. Later references are found from \"the accounts of India\" written by various European travellers (Bernier for example). The first serious historical study of Mughal gardens was written by Constance Villiers-Stuart, with the title \"Gardens of the Great Mughals\" (1913). Her husband was a Colonel in Britain's Indian army. This gave her a good network of contacts and an opportunity to travel. During their residence at Pinjore Gardens, Mrs. Villiers-Stuart also had an opportunity to direct the maintenance of an important Mughal garden. Her book makes reference to the forthcoming design of a garden in the Government House at New Delhi (now known as Rashtrapati Bhavan). She was consulted by Edwin Lutyens, and this may have influenced his choice of Mughal style for this project. Recent scholarly work on the history of Mughal gardens has been carried out under the auspicious guidance of Dumbarton Oaks (including \"Mughal Gardens: Sources, Places, Representations, and Prospects\" edited by James L. Wescoat, Jr. and Joachim Wolschke-Bulmahn) and the Smithsonian Institution. Some examples of Mughal gardens are Shalimar Gardens (Lahore), Lalbagh Fort at Dhaka, and Shalimar Bagh (Srinagar).\nFrom the beginnings of the Mughal Empire, the construction of gardens was a beloved imperial pastime. Babur, the first Mughal conqueror-king, had gardens built in Lahore and Dholpur. Humayun, his son, does not seem to have had much time for building—he was busy reclaiming and increasing the realm—but he is known to have spent a great deal of time at his father’s gardens. Akbar built several gardens first in Delhi, then in Agra, Akbar’s new capital. These tended to be riverfront gardens rather than the fortress gardens that his predecessors built. Building riverfront rather than fortress gardens influenced later Mughal garden architecture considerably.\n\nAkbar’s son, Jahangir, did not build as much, but he helped to lay out the famous Shalimar garden and was known for his great love for flowers. Indeed, his trips to Kashmir are believed to have begun a fashion for naturalistic and abundant floral design.\n\nJahangir's son, Shah Jahan, marks the apex of Mughal garden architecture and floral design. He is famous for the construction of the Taj Mahal, a sprawling funereal paradise in memory of his favorite wife, Mumtaz Mahal. He is also responsible for the Red Fort at Delhi which contains the Mahtab Bagh, a night garden that was filled with night-blooming jasmine and other pale flowers. The pavilions within are faced with white marble to glow in the moonlight. This and the marble of the Taj Mahal are inlaid with semiprecious stone depicting scrolling naturalistic floral motifs, the most important being the tulip, which Shah Jahan adopted as a personal symbol.\n\nMughal gardens design derives primarily from the medieval Islamic garden, although there are nomadic influences that come from the Mughals’ Turkish-Mongolian ancestry. Julie Scott Meisami describes the medieval Islamic garden as “a hortus conclusus, walled off and protected from the outside world; within, its design was rigidly formal, and its inner space was filled with those elements that man finds most pleasing in nature. Its essential features included running water (perhaps the most important element) and a pool to reflect the beauties of sky and garden; trees of various sorts, some to provide shade merely, and others to produce fruits; flowers, colorful and sweet-smelling; grass, usually growing wild under the trees; birds to fill the garden with song; the whole is cooled by a pleasant breeze. The garden might include a raised hillock at the center, reminiscent of the mountain at the center of the universe in cosmological descriptions, and often surmounted by a pavilion or palace.” The Turkish-Mongolian elements of the Mughal garden are primarily related to the inclusion of tents, carpets and canopies reflecting nomadic roots. Tents indicated status in these societies, so wealth and power were displayed through the richness of the fabrics as well as by size and number.\n\nThe Mughals were obsessed with symbol and incorporated it into their gardens in many ways. The standard Quranic references to paradise were in the architecture, layout, and in the choice of plant life; but more secular references, including numerological and zodiacal significances connected to family history or other cultural significance, were often juxtaposed. The numbers eight and nine were considered auspicious by the Mughals and can be found in the number of terraces or in garden architecture such as octagonal pools.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34611", "title": "Names of God in Islam", "text": "Names of God in Islam\n\nAccording to a hadith, there are at least 99 Attributes of Allah, known as the ( Beautiful Names of Allah). The names are also called 99 Attributes of Allah.\n\nAccording to Sahih Bukhari Hadith:\nThere's another Sahih Muslim Hadith:\n\nThe Qur'an refers to God's \"Most Beautiful Names\" (\"al-ʾasmāʾ al-ḥusná\") in several Surahs. Gerhard Böwering refers to Surah 17 (17:110) as the \"locus classicus\" to which explicit lists of 99 names used to be attached in tafsir. A cluster of more than a dozen Divine epithets which are included in such lists is found in Surah 59. Mystic philosopher Ibn Arabi surmised that the 99 names are \"outward signs of the universe's inner mysteries\".\n\nThere is no universal agreement among Muslims as to what exactly counts as a name of God, and what does not. Additionally, while some names are only in the Quran, and others are only in the hadith, there are some names which appear in both. Different sources give different lists of the 99 names.\n\nThe following list is based on the one found in the \"Jamiʿ at-Tirmidhi\" (9th century). Other hadith, such as those of al-Bukhari, Sahih Muslim, Ibn Majah, al-Hakim al-Tirmidhi or Ibn ʿAsākir, have variant lists. All attribute the original compilation of the list of names to Abu Hurairah.\n\nal-Tirmidhi comments on his list: \"This (version of the) hadith is \"gharib\" [unusual, scarce]; it has been narrated from various routes on the authority of Abu Hurairah, but we do not know of the mention of the Names in the numerous narrations, except this one.\"\nVarious early Muslim exegetes, including Jaʿfar al-Sadiq, Sufyan ibn `Uyaynah, Ibn Hazm, al-Qurtubi, Ibn Hajar al-Asqalani, have given their own versions of lists of 99 names.\n\nٱ = The waṣla (\"hamzatu l-waṣli\" ( \"hamza of connection\")) denoting of ٱلْ is \"ʾal/ ʾul/ ʾil\" depending on the last vowel of the previous word/sentence structure:\n\ne.g. سُوْرَةُ ٱلْرَّحْمَـٰنُ Suratu r-Raḥmān [Surah ar-Rahman].\n\nPlease note the written Arabic spelling of the names written in Arabic in the table are in the \"vowelled\" Classical/ Quranic form (proper = in the Quran and Ahādith) with the square bracketed \"[.]\" variant of the written Arabic forms given in common or modern texts - usually in media, some long vowels and punctuations are omitted for the easier typing and reading.\nThere is a tradition in Sufism to the effect the 99 names of God point to a mystical \"Most Supreme and Superior Name\" (\"ismu l-ʾAʿẓam\" (). This \"Greatest Name of God\" is said to be \"the one which if He is called (prayed to) by it, He will answer.\"\n\nAccording to a \"hadith\" narrated by Abdullah ibn Masud, some of the names of God have also been hidden from mankind. More than 1000 names of God are listed in the Jawshan Kabir ( - literally \"the Great Cuirass\") invocations.\n\nThe Arabic names of God are used to form theophoric given names commonly used in Muslim cultures throughout the world, including non-Arabic speaking societies.\n\nWhile the names of God themselves are reserved to God and their use as a person's given name is considered religiously inappropriate, theophoric names can however be formed by either removing the definite article \"al\" (ال), or prefixing the term \"ˁabdu\" (عَبْدُ - \"servant of\") to the name. For example, a person may not be named \"Al-Karīm\" (ٱلْكَرِيمُ - \"the Generous\") or \"Al-Mālik\" (ٱلْمَـٰلِك - \"the King\"), but may be named simply \"Karīm\" (كَرِيمُ - \"Generous\") or \"Mālik\" (مَـٰلِك - \"King\"), as well as \"ˤAbd ul-Karīm\" (عَبْدُ ٱلْكَرِيمُ - \"servant of the Generous\") or \"ˤAbd ul-Mālik\" (عَبْدُ ٱلْمَـٰلِك - \"servant of the King\").\n\nThis distinction is established out of respect for the sanctity of Divine names, which denote attributes (of love, kindness, mercy, compassion, justice, power, etc.) that are believed to be possessed in a full and absolute sense only by God, while human beings, being limited creatures, are viewed by Muslims as being endowed with the Divine attributes only in a limited and relative capacity. The prefixing of the definite article would indicate that the bearer possesses the corresponding attribute in an exclusive sense, a trait reserved to God. \n\nQuranic verse 3:26 is cited as evidence against the validity of using Divine names for persons, with the example of \"Mālik ul-Mulk\" (مَـٰلِكُ ٱلْمُلْكُ - \"Lord of Power\" or \"Owner of all Sovereignty\"):\n\n\"\"Say: \"O God! Lord of Power, You give power to whom You please, and You strip off power from whom You please. You endue with honour whom You please, and You bring low whom You please. In Your hand is all Good.\" Verily, over all things You have power.\"\" [Qur'an 3:26]\n\nThe two parts of the name starting with \"ˁabdu\" may be written separately (as in the previous example) or combined as one in the transliterated form; in such a case, the vowel transcribed after \"ˁabdu\" is often written as u when the two words are transcribed as one: e.g., \"Abdur-Rahman\", \"Abdul-Aziz\", \"Abdul-Jabbar\", or even \"Abdullah\" (عَبْدُ ٱللّٰه - \"Servant of God\"). (This has to do with Arabic case vowels, the final u vowel showing the normal \"quote\" nominative/vocative case form.)\n\nExamples of Muslim theophoric names include:\n\n\nBahá'í sources state that the 100th name was revealed as \"Bahá’\" ( \"glory, splendor\"), which appears in the words Bahá'u'lláh and Bahá'í. They also believe that it is the greatest name of God. The Báb wrote a noted pentagram-shaped tablet with 360 morphological derivation of the word \"Bahá'\" used in it.\n\nAccording to Bahá'í scholar ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd Ishráq-Khávari, Bahāʾ al-dīn al-ʿĀmilī adopted the Persian poetic pen name \"Bahāʾ\" after being inspired by the words of the fifth Twelver Imam, Muhammad al-Baqir, and the sixth Imam, Ja'far al-Sadiq, who stated that the greatest name of God was included in either the \"Duʿāʾu l-Bahāʾ\", a dawn prayer for Ramadan, or the \"ʾAʿmal ʿam Dawūd\". In the first verse of the \"duʿāʾu l-Bahāʾ\", the name \"Bahāʾ\" appears four times.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50649973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50649973", "title": "Nayi brahmin", "text": "Nayi brahmin\n\nNayi Brahmin (also transliterated as Nada Brahmin) is a Telugu speaking Hindu community residing in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh, in ancient days they are called originally Dhanwantari Brahmins. They were traditionally world first Ayurvedic Vaidyas and occupied as temple musicians and temple vocalists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11527702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11527702", "title": "Ovoo", "text": "Ovoo\n\nOvoo, oboo, or obo (, Traditional Mongol: , \"heap\"; Chinese: 敖包 \"áobāo\", lit. \"magnificent bundle [i.e. shrine]\") are sacred stone heaps used as altars or shrines in Mongolian folk religious practice and in the religion of other Mongolic peoples. They are usually made from rocks with wood.\n\nOvoos are often found at the top of mountains and in high places, like mountain passes. In modern times, especially in China, some of them have developed into large and elaborate structures, becoming more like temples than simple altars. In many of these aobaos of China, a trident symbol is put on top of the structure.\n\nThey serve mainly as sites for the worship of Heaven and lesser gods led by shamans and kins' elders, but also for Buddhist ceremonies.\n\nWhen traveling, it is custom to stop and circle an ovoo three times in clockwise direction in order to have a safer journey. Usually, rocks are picked up from the ground and added to the pile. Also, one may leave offerings in the form of sweets, money, milk, or vodka. If one is in a hurry while traveling and does not have time to stop at an ovoo, honking of the horn while passing by the ovoo will suffice.\n\nOvoos are the site for Heaven worship ceremonies that typically take place at the end of summer. Worshippers place a tree branch or stick in the ovoo and tie a blue \"khadag\", a ceremonial silk scarf symbolic of the open sky and the sky spirit Tengger, or Tengri, to the branch. They then light a fire and make food offerings, followed by a ceremonial dance and prayers (worshippers sitting at the northwest side of the ovoo), and a feast with the food left over from the offering.\n\nDuring Mongolia's communist period, ovoo worship was officially prohibited along with other forms of religion, but people still worshipped clandestinely.\n\nOvoos may have influenced or given birth to the Korean \"seonangdang\".\n\nA number of \"sums\" (districts) in Mongolia have the word \"Ovoo\" in their name:\n"}
{"id": "57888563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57888563", "title": "Phthisis (mythology)", "text": "Phthisis (mythology)\n\nPhthisis (Ancient Greek: (phthísis); \"wasting away\"; Roman name; \"\"), one of the Nosoi/Pestis, was the personification/daemon of rot, decay and putrefaction, in Classical/Greco-Roman mythology. \n"}
{"id": "4516588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4516588", "title": "Pir Bakran", "text": "Pir Bakran\n\nPir Bakran (, also Romanized as Pīr Bakrān; also known as Pīr Bāqerān; formerly known as Linjan لنجان) is a city and capital of Pir Bakran District, in Falavarjan County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 10,851, in 2,934 families. It is located southwest by road from Isfahan.\n\nIt contains the mausoleum of Muhammad ibn Bakran, a Sufi saint who taught theology outside the existing structure at the site. The iwan was constructed to serve as his classroom, but was not yet completed at the time of his death in 1303. The structure was later modified to function as his mausoleum.\n\nThe ancient cemetery of the Jews of Esfahan is situated close to this complex. It contains tombs inscribed from the 2nd century AD. The major mausoleum contains the tomb attributed to the biblical person Serah bat Asher. For Jews this is a place of pilgrimage.\n\nFor its public transit system, The city is served by Falavarjan County Municipalities Mass Transit Organization bus network route 3.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1309683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1309683", "title": "Preacher's kid", "text": "Preacher's kid\n\nPreacher's kid is a term to refer to a child of a preacher, pastor, deacon, vicar, lay leader, priest, minister or other similar church leader. Although the phrase can be used in a purely descriptive way, it may also be used as a stereotype.\n\nChildren of clergy often experience pressure due to the expectations placed on them, and may develop feelings of isolation and inner conflict as a result. Parental workload (which, by definition, includes working on the weekend) may also be a source of stress.\n\nSome writers suggest that there is a \"preacher's kid syndrome\", in which children of clergy reject religion and the church. Such rebellious children of the clergy are a stock figure in the Southern literature of the United States, and this view is seen as a stereotype. One literary example occurs in Eugene O'Neill's play \"The Iceman Cometh\" when the traveling salesman Hickey describes his life: \"You see, even as a kid I was always restless. I had to keep on the go. You’ve heard the old saying, “Ministers’ sons are sons of guns.” Well, that was me, and then some.\" \n\nOther writers note that children of the clergy (both Christian and Jewish) may often become clergy themselves. Martin Luther King, Jr. (son of Martin Luther King, Sr.) and Franklin Graham (son of Billy Graham) are examples.\n\nChildren of clergy may be more exposed than their peers to the defining events of life. Former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown recalled that he learned much about life, death, poverty, injustice and unemployment as the son of a Church of Scotland minister.\n\nThe \"preacher's kid\" phenomenon has been connected with the related one of \"military brats\" (children of active-duty military personnel). Children of preachers who are missionaries (missionary kids) may also be third culture kids.\n\nThere are two different stereotypes of the preacher's kid: in one, they are perfectly angelic role models, in the other they are rebels at the opposite extreme. The existence of these stereotypes is a source of pressure on children of clergy.\n\nExamples of the negative stereotype include the preacher's son from Maine in the film \"Gettysburg\", described as the \"best darn cusser I've ever heard\", and Jessica Lovejoy in the \"Bart's Girlfriend\" episode of \"The Simpsons\".\n\nSitcom \"Three's Company\" character Chrissy Snow played by Suzanne Somers played off a variety of stereotypes including the \"dumb blonde\", but also as daughter of Reverend Luther Snow (Peter Mark Richman), the character – as well as much of the show's humor – was developed around aspects of Chrissy's innocence and naïvety based on a stereotype of her religious upbringing in small town America.\n\nThe TV series \"7th Heaven\" is also a good example of the pastor's kid stereotype. The Camden family was large. The father, Eric (Stephen Collins), was a minister. He and his wife Annie (Catherine Hicks) had seven children. Sometimes they were perfect angels, but most of the time the show displayed the trials that the family went through as the children were growing up. Often the children were criticized because of who their father was.\n\nAn enduring image from popular music is presented in the hit song \"Son of a Preacher Man,\" a ballad of young love remembered, places the minister's son as a \"sweet-talkin' son of a preacher man\", who is possibly more sensitive to women and thus able to emotionally reach the girl who claims that, \"The only one who could ever reach me/Was the son of a preacher man/The only boy who could ever teach me/Was the son of a preacher man.\" Versions of the recording from major stars like Dusty Springfield and Aretha Franklin kept this image, drawn from a southern US setting, visible internationally.\n\nThe \"preacher's daughter\" is also a pervasive negative stereotype ascribed to female children that has a particular set of connotations, often sexual, rebellious, or dark in nature. The stereotype is typically suggestive of a dual-life: one lived as the expected descendant of piety and the other lived wild, outside of the morals of religion, cloaked in secrecy. Songs such as \"Preacher's Daughter\" by American R&B singer-songwriter Anthony Hamilton exhibit this role: \"She had a habit that she couldn't really stop, needed money so she had to hit the block, nobody knew it so she steady had to play a role, went to church, but surely tearin' up her soul... she was a Preacher's Daughter.\" \n\nLifetime reality TV series Preachers' Daughters follows the lives of Christian preacher's daughters and their families.\n\nIn Scotland, to be \"children of the manse\" is considered very influential on a person's upbringing.\n\nIn German, the terms \"Pfarrerskind\" and \"Priesterkind\" are used to refer to children of clergy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49386121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49386121", "title": "Promanteia", "text": "Promanteia\n\nPromanteia was the privilege, bestowed upon cities or individuals by the Oracle of Delphi, to ask the Pythia in priority.\n\nIn the course of the classical period the priests of Delphi established a series of honours bestowed upon those who offered benefactions to the sanctuary, whether they were cities or individuals. The institution of promanteia was one of the privileges offered initially to cities which had offered aided the sanctuary financially. Promanteia was in fact the right to acquire an oracle before the others (yet still after the priests and the citizens of Delphi). Given the fact that oracle-giving was taking place on specific -and limited- periods of time, this right could actually be very important. From the beginning of the 4th century B.C. this right continued to be accorded to individuals and to be combined with other privileges, such as prothysia and proxenia.\n\nOn the base of the Sphinx of the Naxians in Delphi, there is an inscription dated to 328-327 B.C., renewing the \"promanteia\" for the inhabitants of Naxos: \n\nChristine Sourvinou-Inwood: What is polis religion? In: Oswyn Murray, Simon R. F. Price (Hrsg.): The Greek city. From Homer to Alexander. Clarendon, Oxford 1990\n"}
{"id": "1067021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1067021", "title": "Puckowe", "text": "Puckowe\n\nIn Australian Aboriginal folklore, Puckowe is the Grandmother spirit who lives in the sky and comes to the aid of medicine men.\n\n"}
{"id": "10375347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10375347", "title": "Pynchas Brener", "text": "Pynchas Brener\n\nPynchas Brener (1931) is the Ashkenazi Chief Rabbi of Caracas, Venezuela, starting in 1967. He received his Bachelor of Arts and Rabbinic Ordination from Yeshiva University and his Master's degree from Columbia University, and is a PhD \"honoris causa\" of Bar Ilan University. \n\nHe was born in Tyszowce, Poland and at the age of four emigrated with his family to Peru.\n\nBrener is a president of the Committee of Liaisons between Churches and Synagogues in Venezuela and member of the Board of Directors of Bar Ilan University in Israel. He is the author of several books about Judaism, including \"El Diálogo Eterno\", \"Las Escrituras: Hombres e Ideas\", and \"Fe y Razón\", all published by the World Zionist Organization's Department for Education and Culture in the Diaspora. He has also written \"Tradición y Actualidad\" and \"Luto y Consuelo\", published by Editorial Boker, and \"La fe y la Intuición\", published by Monte Ávila Editores in Caracas. He also co-edited with Marianne Beker and Thea Segal, the book \"Las sinagogas se abren al mundo\"\n\nHe is also a regular columnist in the Venezuelan newspapers such as El Nacional, El Universal and the Venezuelan Jewish community weekly newspaper Nuevo Mundo Israelita.\n\nHe is a classmate and close friend of Rabbi Arthur Schneier of Park East Synagogue, and he was a friend of Herbert Pollock when Pollock was a student in Yeshiva University in the late 1940s. Prior to his appointment in Venezuela, he had served as the Rabbi of Holliswood in Queens, New York. He has an internet project and a website: www.pynchasbrener.com\n"}
{"id": "13863712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13863712", "title": "Pāora Te Potangaroa", "text": "Pāora Te Potangaroa\n\nPāora Te Potangaroa (died 1881) was a Māori prophet and rangatira of the Ngāti Kahungunu in the Wairarapa region of the North Island of New Zealand. Little is known about his life, but he is known for having uttered an 1881 prophecy of the coming of a church that would be for the Māori people.\n\nIn March 1881, several thousand members of the Ngāti Hamua gathered near Masterton for a hui in the Nga Tau e Waru meeting house at Te Ore Ore Marae. During the meeting, Pāora Te Potangaroa spoke of the spiritual impotency of the Christian missionaries that had visited the Māori. When some of the attendees pressed Potangaroa on which was the church for the Māori, he retired to his nearby residence for three days of fasting, meditation, and prayer.\n\nPotangaroa reconvened the meeting on March 16 and announced that he had received knowledge of a coming church for the Māori: \"There is a religious denomination coming for us; perhaps it will come from there, perhaps it will emerge here. ... [T]here will be a time when a religion will emerge for you and I and the Māori people.\" Another reported account elaborated:\n\"You will recognize it when it comes. Its missionaries will travel in pairs. They will come from the rising sun. They will visit with us in our homes. They will learn our language and teach us the gospel in our own tongue. When they pray they will raise their right hands.\nPotangaroa also set down in writing \"He Kawenata\" — \"the covenant\" — which included other signs that would let his followers know that his prophecy had been fulfilled within forty years. The covenant predicted that 1881 would be the \"day of the fulness\", 1882 would be a \"year of the sealing\", 1883 would be a \"year of great faith\", and that through these events the Māori \"will learn of the Scepter of Judah ... of the Kingdom of Heaven [and] of the sacred church with a large wall surrounding.\" The covenant was sealed in a monument at the Te Ore Ore Marae.\n\nShortly after uttering his prophecy, Potangaroa died. Later that same year, missionaries from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints made initial contacts with individuals from Ngāti Kahungunu. Some of the Maori who converted to Mormonism believed that the coming of the Mormon missionaries was a fulfillment of Potangaroa's prophecy. Potangaroa's \"day of the fulness\" was identified as the missionaries bearing the \"fulness of the Gospel\"; the \"year of the sealing\" was identified as the time the Māori learned of the Latter-day Saint sealing ordinances; and the \"sacred church with a large wall surrounding\" was identified as the Salt Lake Temple, which is located on Temple Square, surrounded by a high wall. It was also pointed out by believers that the Mormon missionaries had come in pairs from \"the rising sun\" (the United States, to the east), that the missionaries taught the Ngāti Kahungunu in the Māori language in their own homes, and that they raised their arms when they prayed.\n\nBy 1883 — Potangaroa's \"year of great faith\" — hundreds of Ngāti Kahungunu had joined the LDS Church in the Wairarapa. An apostle of the LDS Church would later claim that by 1921, the fortieth anniversary of Potangaroa's prophecy, only Māori from Ngāti Kahungunu had joined the LDS Church and received temple ordinances, and that Māori from other tribes began receiving these sealing ordinances only after the forty-year \"covenant\" of Potangaroa had been fulfilled.\n\nOther religious groups that have been seen as fulfillments of the prophecy include the Ratana church, founded by Tahupotiki Wiremu Ratana; the Ringatu church, founded by Te Kooti; and the Church of the Seven Rules of Jehovah, founded by Simon Patete.\n\n"}
{"id": "16886076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16886076", "title": "Religion in Suriname", "text": "Religion in Suriname\n\nReligion in Suriname is characterized by a range of religious beliefs and practices due to its ethnic diversity. According to the most recent census (2012), 48.4 percent of the population is Christian (the largest groups being Pentecostalism, the Moravian Church, and the Catholic Church) 22.3 percent is Hindu, 13.9 percent is Muslim, 1.8 percent follows Winti, and 0.8 percent is Javanist. In addition 2.1 percent of the population follows other faiths (including Jehovah's Witnesses), 7.5 percent are atheist or agnostic, and 3.2 percent did not answer the question about their religion.\n\nIndigenous religions are practiced by the Amerindian and Afro-descendant Maroon populations. Amerindians, found principally in the interior and to a lesser extent in coastal areas, practice shamanism, worship of all living things, and their rites are led by medicine men, or \"piaiman\". Maroons, who inhabit the interior, worship nature through a practice that has no special name, and they also worship their ancestors through a rite called Winti. Citizens of Amerindian and Maroon origin who classify themselves as Christian often simultaneously follow indigenous religious customs, with the acknowledgment of their Christian church leaders.\n\nThe negligible Jewish community numbers 181, and there are also small numbers of Bahá'ís and Buddhists. Other groups include The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community and the World Islamic Call Society. \"No religion in Suriname has any problem with any other religion\", quips Guido Robles, a prominent Jewish businessman in Paramaribo. \"All the problems are caused by the politicians.\" \n\nMany political parties, including six of the eight governing coalition parties, have strong ethnic ties, and members tend to adhere to or practice one faith. For example, within the governing coalition, the majority of members of the mostly ethnic-Creole National Party of Suriname (NPS) is Moravian, members of the mostly ethnic-Indian United Reformed Party are Hindu, and those of the mostly ethnic-Javanese Pertjaja Luhur Party tend to be Muslim. However, parties have no requirement that political party leaders or members adhere to a particular religion.\n\nThe religious demography of Suriname as per the 2004 Census is as follows:\n\nThe dominant religion in Suriname is Christianity, both in the form of Roman Catholicism and various denominations of Protestantism, the Anglican Church being the oldest. According to the 2012 census data 48.4% of the population of Suriname is Christian and the Pentecostal churches are the largest Protestant denomination, closely followed by Moravians.\n\nThe story of Hinduism in Suriname is broadly parallel to that in Guyana. Indian indentured labourers were sent to colonial Dutch Guiana by special arrangement between the Dutch and British. \nThe difference is that the Netherlands' more liberal policy toward Hinduism allowed the culture to develop stronger. Examples are the lack of a rigid caste system and the almost universal reading of Gita and Ramayan. \n\nAccording to the 2012 census of Suriname, Hindus constitute 22.3% of the population. Hindus are mostly concentrated in Northern coastal regions of Suriname: Nickerie, Wanica and Saramacca, where they constitute the largest religious group. There are several hindu temples in Suriname.\n\nAccording to the most recent census, the Muslim population of Suriname represents about 13.9% of the country's total population, giving the country the highest proportion of Muslims on the American continent.\n\nMuslims that first came to Suriname consisted of indentured laborers from South Asia and Indonesia, from whom today most Muslims in Suriname are descended.\n\nJavanism is followed by 0.8% of the Suriname population. It is followed mainly by the Javanese people in Suriname.\n\nThere has been a Jewish community in Suriname since 1639, when the English government allowed Sephardi Jews to settle the region. The Jewish community is currently struggling due to dwindling funds and membership.\n"}
{"id": "5170225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5170225", "title": "Religious disaffiliation", "text": "Religious disaffiliation\n\nReligious disaffiliation is the act of leaving a faith, or a religious group or community. It is in many respects the reverse of religious conversion. Several other terms are used for this process, though each of these terms may have slightly different meanings and connotations.\n\nResearchers employ a variety of terms to describe disaffiliation, including defection, apostasy and disengagement. This is in contrast to excommunication, which is disaffiliation from a religious organization imposed punitively on a member, rather than willfully undertaken by the member.\n\nIf religious affiliation was a big part of a leaver's social life and identity, then leaving can be a wrenching experience, and some religious groups aggravate the process with hostile reactions and shunning. Some people who were not particularly religious see leaving as not ‘all that big a deal’ and entailing ‘few personal consequences’, especially if they are younger people in secularized countries.\n\nIn 1993, the UN's human rights committee declared that article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights \"protects theistic, non-theistic and atheistic beliefs, as well as the right not to profess any religion or belief.\" The committee further stated that \"the freedom to have or to adopt a religion or belief necessarily entails the freedom to choose a religion or belief, including the right to replace one's current religion or belief with another or to adopt atheistic views.\" Signatories to the convention are barred from \"the use of threat of physical force or penal sanctions to compel believers or non-believers\" to recant their beliefs or convert. Despite this, minority religions are still persecuted in many parts of the world.\n\nWhile most Western societies permit their citizens to choose their religion, many Muslim majority countries forbid people recognized by the state as Muslim to change their religion.\n\nIn some cases, religious disaffilation is coerced. Some religious people are expelled or excommunicated by their religious groups. Some family members of people who join cults or new religious movements feel concerned that cults are using mind control to keep them away from their families, and support forcefully removing them from the group and deprogramming them.\n\nBrinkerhoff and Burke (1980) argue that \"religious disaffiliation is a gradual, cumulative social process in which negative labeling may act as a 'catalyst' accelerating the journey of apostasy while giving it form and direction.\" They also argue that the process of religious disaffiliation includes the member stopping believing but continuing to participate in rituals, and that the element of doubt underlies many of the theoretical assumptions dealing with apostasy.\n\nIn her article about ex-nuns, Ebaugh (1988) describes four stages characteristic of role exit:\n\nIn the two samples studied by Ebaugh the vast majority of the ex-nuns remained Catholics.\n\nAccording to Meredith McGuire (2002), in a book about the social context in religion, if the religious affiliation was a big part of a leaver's social life and identity, then leaving can be a wrenching experience, and the way in which one leaves a religious group is another factor that may aggravate problems. McGuire writes that if the response of the group is hostile, or follows an attempt by that person to change the group from \"the inside\" before leaving, then the process of leaving will be fraught with considerable emotional and social tensions.\n\nThe \"Handbook of Religion and Health\" describes a survey by Feigelman (1992), who examined happiness in Americans who have given up religion, in which it was found that there was little relationship between religious disaffiliation and unhappiness. A survey by Kosmin & Lachman (1993), also cited in this handbook, indicates that people with no religious affiliation appear to be at greater risk for depressive symptoms than those affiliated with a religion.\n\nApostates of New Religious Groups often have mixed feelings about the group they have left. Massimo Introvigne in his \"Defectors, Ordinary Leavetakers and Apostates\" defines three types of narratives constructed by apostates of new religious movements:\n\nIntrovigne argues that apostates professing \"Type II\" narratives prevail among exiting members of controversial groups or organizations, while apostates that profess \"Type III\" narratives are a vociferous minority.\n\nAlthough some of the above studies indicate a positive correlation between religious belief and happiness, in any event it is a separate task to distinguish between alternative causal explanations including the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "744508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=744508", "title": "Religious views of Charles Darwin", "text": "Religious views of Charles Darwin\n\nCharles Darwin's views on religion have been the subject of much interest. His pivotal work in the development of modern biology and evolution theory played a prominent part in debates about religion and science at the time, then, in the early 20th century became a focus of the creation-evolution controversy in the United States.\n\nCharles Darwin had a non-conformist Unitarian background, but attended a Church of England school. With the aim of becoming a clergyman he went to the University of Cambridge for the required BA degree, which included studies of Anglican theology. He took great interest in natural history and became filled with zeal for science as defined by John Herschel, based on the natural theology of William Paley which presented the argument from divine design in nature to explain adaptation as God acting through laws of nature. On the voyage of the \"Beagle\" he remained orthodox and looked for \"centres of creation\" to explain distribution, but towards the end of the voyage began to doubt that species were fixed. By this time he was critical of the Bible as history, and wondered why all religions should not be equally valid. Following his return in October 1836, he developed his novel ideas of geology while speculating about transmutation of species and thinking about religion.\n\nFollowing Darwin's marriage to Emma Wedgwood in January 1839, they shared discussions about Christianity for several years, Emma's views being Unitarian like much of her family. The theodicy of Paley and Thomas Malthus vindicated evils such as starvation as a result of a benevolent creator's laws which had an overall good effect. To Darwin, natural selection produced the good of adaptation but removed the need for design, and he could not see the work of an omnipotent deity in all the pain and suffering such as the ichneumon wasp paralysing caterpillars as live food for its eggs. Until 1844 he followed Paley in viewing organisms as perfectly adapted with only a few imperfections, and only partly modified that view by 1859. \"On the Origin of Species\" reflects theological views. Though he thought of religion as a tribal survival strategy, Darwin still believed that God was the ultimate lawgiver, and later recollected that at the time he was convinced of the existence of God as a First Cause and deserved to be called a theist. This view subsequently fluctuated, and he continued to explore conscientious doubts, without forming fixed opinions on certain religious matters.\n\nDarwin continued to play a leading part in the parish work of the local church, but from around 1849 would go for a walk on Sundays while his family attended church. Though reticent about his religious views, in 1879 he responded that he had never been an atheist in the sense of denying the existence of a god, and that generally \"an Agnostic would be the more correct description of my state of mind.\" He went as far as saying that \"Science has nothing to do with Christ, except insofar as the habit of scientific research makes a man cautious in admitting evidence. For myself, I do not believe that there ever has been any revelation. As for a future life, every man must judge for himself between conflicting vague probabilities.\"\n\nCharles Darwin was born during the Napoleonic Wars and grew up in their aftermath, a conservative time when Tory-dominated government closely associated with the established Anglican Church of England repressed Radicalism, but when family memories recalled the 18th-century Enlightenment and a multitude of Non-conformist churches held differing interpretations of Christianity. His Whig supporting extended family of Darwins and Wedgwoods was strongly Unitarian, though one of his grandfathers, Erasmus Darwin, was a freethinker, and his father was quietly a freethinker but as a physician avoided any social conflict with his wealthy Anglican patrons. While Darwin's parents were open enough to changing social pressures to have Charles baptised in the Church of England, his pious mother took the children to the Unitarian chapel. After her death when he was only eight he became a boarder at the \"Shrewsbury School\", an Anglican public school.\n\nThe two universities in England namely Oxford and Cambridge, were under the Church of England and required students to sign the \"Thirty-nine Articles of the Anglican faith\", so many English Non-conformists sent their children to the Scottish universities which had a better reputation in fields like medicine. Charles initially attended the University of Edinburgh, and while he was put off medicine he took an active interest in natural history at the Plinian Society. One of his proposers for the society was the radical William A. F. Browne, and on 27 March 1827 Browne argued that mind and consciousness were simply aspects of brain activity, not \"souls\" or spiritual entities separate from the body. A furious debate ensued, and later someone struck out all mention of this materialist heresy from the minutes. This was the first time that Darwin was exposed to militant freethought and the arguments it aroused. On one occasion Robert Edmund Grant discussed Lamarck's evolutionary ideas. Darwin was astonished, but had recently read the similar ideas of his grandfather Erasmus and remained indifferent.\n\nNatural history had grown from the idea that the different kinds of plants and animals showed the wonder of God's creation, making their study and cataloguing into species worthwhile. In Darwin's day it was common for clergymen to be naturalists, though scientific findings had already opened up ideas on creation. The established churches (of England and Scotland) and the English universities remained insistent that species were divinely created and man was distinct from the \"lower orders\", but the Unitarian church rejected this teaching and even proclaimed that the human mind was subject to physical law. Erasmus Darwin went further and his \"Zoönomia\" asks \"..would it be too bold to imagine that all warm-blooded animals have arisen from one living filament, which the great First Cause endued with animality... possessing the faculty of continuing to improve by its own inherent activity, and of delivering down these improvements by generation to its posterity, world without end!\", anticipating Lamarckism.\n\nWhen Darwin proved unable to persevere at medical studies, his father sent him to Christ's College, Cambridge, for a Bachelor of Arts degree as the first step towards becoming an Anglican parson. Darwin was at first uncertain, he later wrote: \"from what little I had heard and thought on the subject I had scruples about declaring my belief in all the dogmas of the Church of England; though otherwise I liked the thought of being a country clergyman. Accordingly I read with care 'Pearson on the Creed' and a few other books on divinity; and as I did not then in the least doubt the strict and literal truth of every word in the Bible, I soon persuaded myself that our Creed must be fully accepted. It never struck me how illogical it was to say that I believed in what I could not understand and what is in fact unintelligible. I might have said with entire truth that I had no wish to dispute any dogma; but I never was such a fool as to feel and say 'credo quia incredibile'. He was particularly convinced by the reasoning of the Revd. John Bird Sumner's \"Evidences of Christianity\" which set out the logic that the unbelief of sceptics gave them the dilemma that if Christianity were untrue, then either \"Jesus did not live, or he actually lived, but was not the Son of God, hence an imposter.\" The Gospels made this highly improbable, as his miracles had convinced unbelievers, hence we had \"no right to deny\" that such events were probable. Jesus's religion was \"wonderfully suitable... to our ideas of happiness in this & the next world\" and there was \"no other way... of explaining the series of evidence & probability.\"\n\nThe university was essentially tied into the Church of England, with virtually all of the college heads and most of the professors and fellows having been ordained. About half of the undergraduates were destined for the church, like Darwin hoping for a comfortable parish. During Darwin's second year, the harmony was disturbed when Cambridge was briefly visited by the Radicals Richard Carlile and the Revd Robert Taylor on an \"infidel home missionary tour\", causing a stir before being banned. Taylor would be remembered by Darwin as \"the Devil's Chaplain\", a warning example of an outcast from society who had challenged Christianity and had been imprisoned for blasphemy.\n\nIn his third year, he joined John Stevens Henslow's natural history course and was introduced to the Cambridge version of natural theology, part of the liberal Christianity of colleagues such as Adam Sedgwick, George Peacock and William Whewell who all had strong views about science as the search for the laws of nature. Study of nature was study of the work of the Lord, and scientists who were ordained clerics of the Church of England, such as themselves, could follow their enquiries without theological difficulties. Sedgwick gave a talk to the Geological Society of London in 1831 which declared that \"No opinion can be heretical, but that which is not true... Conflicting falsehoods we can comprehend; but truths can never war against each other. I affirm, therefore, that we have nothing to fear from the results of our enquiries, provided they be followed in the laborious but secure road of honest induction. In this way we may rest assured that we shall never arrive at conclusions opposed to any truth, either physical or moral, from whatever source that truth may be derived.\" For these men, science could not be out of harmony with religion, and in a sense it was religion.\n\nUnder pressure in the fourth year, Darwin worked hard at his studies, getting tuition in theology by Henslow. Darwin became particularly interested in the Revd William Paley's \"Evidences of Christianity\" and \"Principles of Moral and Political Philosophy\", which were set texts. The latter was becoming outdated. It opposed arguments for increased democracy, but saw no divine right of rule for the sovereign or the state, only \"expediency\". Government could be opposed if grievances outweighed the danger and expense to society. The judgement was \"Every man for himself\". These ideas had suited the conditions of reasonable rule prevailing when the text was published in 1785, but in 1830 they were dangerous ideas at a time when the French king was deposed by middle class republicans and given refuge in England by the Tory government, and resulting radical street protests demanded suffrage, equality and freedom of religion. Paley's text even supported abolition of the \"Thirty-nine Articles\" of the Anglican faith which every student at Cambridge (and Oxford University) was required to sign. Henslow insisted that \"he should be grieved if a single word of the Thirty-nine Articles were altered\" and emphasised the need to respect authority. Darwin later wrote that he was convinced that he \"could have written out the whole of the \"Evidences\" with perfect correctness, but not of course in the clear language of Paley. The logic of this book and as I may add of his \"Natural Theology\" gave me as much delight as did Euclid.\"\n\nAfter doing particularly well in his final exam questions on Paleys' books, Darwin read Paley's \"Natural Theology\" which set out to refute David Hume's argument that the teleological argument for \"design\" by a Creator was merely a human projection onto the forces of nature. Paley saw a rational proof of God's existence in the complexity and perfect adaptation to needs of living beings exquisitely fitted to their places in a happy world, while attacking the evolutionary ideas of Erasmus Darwin as coinciding with atheistic schemes and lacking evidence. Paley's benevolent God acted in nature through uniform and universal laws, not arbitrary miracles or changes of laws, and this use of secondary laws provided a theodicy explaining the problem of evil by separating nature from direct divine action, drawing directly on the ideas of Thomas Malthus. For Paley, a Malthusian \"system of natural hostilities\" of animals living on prey was strictly connected to the surplus of births keeping the world appropriately stocked as circumstances changed, and poverty showed that the world was in a \"state of probation... calculated for the production, exercise, and improvement of moral qualities, with a view to a future state\", even where such divine purpose was not obvious. This convinced Charles and encouraged his interest in science. He later wrote \"I do not think I hardly ever admired a book more than Paley's \"Natural Theology\": I could almost formerly have said it by heart.\"\n\nHe read John Herschel's new \"Preliminary Discourse on the Study of Natural Philosophy\", learning that nature was governed by laws, and the highest aim of natural philosophy was to understand them through an orderly process of induction, balancing observation and theorising. This exemplified the natural theology that Darwin had learnt in previous years. He also read Alexander von Humboldt's \"Personal Narrative\", and the two books were immensely influential, stirring up in him \"a burning zeal to add even the most humble contribution to the noble structure of Natural Science.\"\n\nDarwin planned a visit to the tropics before settling down as a clergyman, and on Henslow's advice studied geology with Adam Sedgwick, finding about the ancient age of the Earth, then went with him for two weeks surveying strata in Wales. He returned to find that his arrangements had fallen through, but was given the opportunity to join the \"Beagle\" survey expedition as a gentleman naturalist and companion to captain Robert FitzRoy. Before they left England FitzRoy gave Darwin a copy of the first volume of Charles Lyell's \"Principles of Geology\", the subject which would be his primary work.\n\nDarwin was questioning from the outset, and in his first zoology notes he wondered why deep-ocean plankton had been created with so much beauty for little purpose as no one could see them. He saw landforms as supporting Lyell's Uniformitarianism which explained features as the outcome of a gradual process over huge periods of time, and quickly showed a gift for theorising about the geology he was examining. He concluded that the land had indeed risen, and referred to loose rock deposits as \"part of the long disputed Diluvium\". Around 1825 both Lyell and Sedgwick had supported William Buckland's Catastrophism which postulated diluvialism to reconcile findings with the Biblical account of Noah's ark, but by 1830 evidence had shown them that the \"diluvium\" had come from a series of local processes. They still distinguished between diluvial and alluvial deposits, but Sedgwick no longer thought these deposits were connected with Noah's flood by the time he taught Darwin, though the debate continued. Darwin's notes show him increasingly discounting \"debacles\" to account for such formations. It was only later that glaciation was accepted as the source of these deposits.\n\nLyell's second volume explained extinctions as a \"succession of deaths\" due to changed circumstances with new species then being created, but Darwin found giant fossils of extinct mammals with no geological signs of a \"diluvial debacle\" or environmental change, and so rejected Lyell's explanation in favour of Giovanni Battista Brocchi's idea that species had somehow aged and died out. On the Galápagos Islands he remained convinced by Lyell's idea of species spreading from \"centres of creation\", and assumed that species had spread from the mainland rather than originating on these geologically recent volcanic islands. He failed to note locations of most of his finds, but fortunately recorded mockingbirds and plant life with more care. In Australia, reflecting on the marsupial kangaroos and potoroos, he thought them so strange that an unbeliever \"might exclaim 'Surely two distinct Creators must have been [at] work; their object however has been the same & certainly the end in each case is complete'\", yet an antlion he was watching was very similar to its European counterpart. \"Now what would the Disbeliever say to this? Would any two workmen ever hit on so beautiful, so simple & yet so artificial a contrivance? It cannot be thought so. – The one hand has surely worked throughout the universe. A Geologist perhaps would suggest, that the periods of Creation have been distinct & remote the one from the other; that the Creator rested in his labor.\" Darwin was struggling with inconsistencies in these ideas. As they neared the end of the voyage his thoughts about the mockingbirds shook his confidence that species were fixed and that variation was limited.\n\nIn Cape Town, South Africa, Darwin and FitzRoy visited John Herschel. On 20 February 1836, Herschel had written to Lyell praising his \"Principles of Geology\" as opening a way for bold speculation on \"that mystery of mysteries, the replacement of extinct species by others.\" Herschel thought catastrophic extinction and renewal \"an inadequate conception of the Creator\", and by analogy with other intermediate causes \"the origination of fresh species, could it ever come under our cognizance, would be found to be a natural in contradistinction to a miraculous process\". The letter was widely circulated in London, and Darwin remembered the phrase \"that mystery of mysteries\". Missionaries were being accused of causing racial tension and profiteering, and after the \"Beagle\" set to sea on 18 June FitzRoy wrote an open letter to the evangelical \"South African Christian Recorder\" on the \"Moral State of Tahiti\" incorporating extracts from both his and Darwin's diaries to defend the reputation of missionaries. This was given to a passing ship which took it to Cape Town to become FitzRoy's (and Darwin's) first published work.\n\nFitzRoy too had seen geological features as supporting Lyell's timescale, and on his return to England extracts from his diary stressing the immense age of the Patagonian raised beaches were read to the Royal Geographical Society, but he married a very religious lady and in his \"Narrative\" of the voyage added a supplement regretting having \"remarked to a friend\" that these vast plains \"could never have been effected by a forty days' flood\", remarks he ascribed to his own \"turn of mind and ignorance of scripture\" during the voyage.\n\nIn his later private autobiography, Darwin wrote of the period from October 1836 to January 1839:\n\nIn seeking to explain his observations, by early 1837 Darwin was speculating in his notebooks on transmutation of species and writing of \"my theory\". His journal for 1838 records \"All September read a good deal on many subject: thought much upon religion. Beginning of October ditto.\" At this time he outlined ideas of comparative anthropology, from his knowledge of different religious beliefs around the world as well as at various times in history, and came to the view that scriptures were unreliable and contradictory.\n\nHaving decided to marry, Darwin visited his cousin Emma on 29 July 1838 and told her of his ideas on transmutation. On 11 November he returned and proposed to Emma. Again he discussed his ideas, and about ten days later she wrote, \"When I am with you I think all melancholy thoughts keep out of my head but since you are gone some sad ones have forced themselves in, of fear that our opinions on the most important subject should differ widely. My reason tells me that honest & conscientious doubts cannot be a sin, but I feel it would be a painful void between us. I thank you from my heart for your openness with me & I should dread the feeling that you were concealing your opinions from the fear of giving me pain. It is perhaps foolish of me to say this much but my own dear Charley we now do belong to each other & I cannot help being open with you. Will you do me a favour? yes I am sure you will, it is to read our Saviours farewell discourse to his disciples which begins at the end of the 13th Chap of John. It is so full of love to them & devotion & every beautiful feeling. It is the part of the New Testament I love best. This is a whim of mine it would give me great pleasure, though I can hardly tell why I don't wish you to give me your opinion about it.\"\n\nDarwin had already wondered about the materialism implied by his ideas, noting in his transmutation notebook \"Thought (or desires more properly) being hereditary it is difficult to imagine it anything but structure of brain hereditary, analogy points out to this. – love of the deity effect of organization, oh you materialist!\" The letter shows Emma's tension between her fears that differences of belief would separate them, and her desire to be close and openly share ideas. Emma cherished a belief in the afterlife, and was concerned that they should \"belong to each other\" for eternity. The Gospel of John says \"Love one another\" (13:34), then describes Jesus as the Word Incarnate saying \"I am the way, the truth and the life: no man comes to the Father, except through me.\" (14:6). Desmond and Moore note that the section continues \"Whoever does not abide in me is thrown away like a branch and withers; such branches are gathered, thrown into the fire and burned\"(15:6). As disbelief later gradually crept over Darwin, he could \"hardly see how anyone ought to wish Christianity to be true; for if so the plain language of the text seems to show that the men who do not believe, and this would include my Father, Brother and almost all my best friends, will be everlastingly punished. And this is a damnable doctrine.\"\n\nFollowing Darwin's marriage to Emma in January 1839, they shared discussions about Christianity for many years. Unitarianism emphasised inner feeling which overrode the authority of religious texts or doctrine, and her beliefs resulted from intensive study and questioning. They socialised with the Unitarian clergymen James Martineau and John James Tayler, and read their works as well as those of other Unitarian and liberal Anglican authors such as Francis William Newman whose \"Phases of faith\" described a spiritual journey from Calvinism to theism, all part of widespread and heated debate on the authority of Anglicanism. In Downe Emma attended the Anglican village church, but as a Unitarian had the family turn round in silence when the Trinitarian Nicene Creed was recited.\n\nSoon after their marriage, Emma felt that \"while you are acting conscientiously & sincerely wishing, & trying to learn the truth, you cannot be wrong\", and though concerned at the threat to faith of the \"habit in scientific pursuits of believing nothing till it is proved\", her hope that he did not \"consider his opinion as formed\" proved correct. Methodical conscientious doubt as a state of inquiry rather than disbelief made him open to nature and revelation, and they remained open with each other.\n\nDarwin was interested in ideas of Natural \"laws of harmony\", and made enquiries into animal breeding. Having read the new 6th edition of the Revd. Thomas Malthus's \"Essay on the Principle of Population\", around late November 1838 he compared breeders selecting traits to a Malthusian Nature selecting from variants thrown up by \"chance\" so that \"every part of newly acquired structure is fully practical & perfected\", thinking this \"a beautiful part of my theory\". The theodicy of Paley and Thomas Malthus vindicated evils such as starvation as a result of a benevolent creator's laws which had an overall good effect. To Darwin, Natural selection produced the good of adaptation but removed the need for design, and he could not see the work of an omnipotent deity in all the pain and suffering such as the ichneumon wasp paralysing caterpillars as live food for its eggs.\n\nEarly in 1842, Darwin wrote about his ideas to Lyell, who noted that his ally \"denies seeing a beginning to each crop of species\". On 11 January 1844 Darwin mentioned his theorising to the botanist Joseph Dalton Hooker, writing with melodramatic humour \"I am almost convinced (quite contrary to opinion I started with) that species are not (it is like confessing a murder) immutable. Heaven forfend me from Lamarck nonsense of a 'tendency to progression' 'adaptations from the slow willing of animals' &c,—but the conclusions I am led to are not widely different from his—though the means of change are wholly so—I think I have found out (here's presumption!) the simple way by which species become exquisitely adapted to various ends.\" Hooker replied \"There may in my opinion have been a series of productions on different spots, & also a gradual change of species. I shall be delighted to hear how you think that this change may have taken place, as no presently conceived opinions satisfy me on the subject.\"\n\nIn November 1844 public controversy erupted over ideas of evolutionary progress in the anonymously published \"Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation\", a well written best-seller which widened public interest in transmutation. Darwin scorned its amateurish geology and zoology, but carefully reviewed his own arguments.\n\nFrom around 1849 Darwin stopped attending church, but Emma and the children continued to attend services. On Sundays Darwin sometimes went with them as far as the lych gate to the churchyard, and then he would go for a walk. During the service, Emma continued to face forward when the congregation turned to face the altar for the Creed, sticking to her Unitarian faith.\n\nAt the end of June 1850 his bright nine-year-old daughter Annie who had become a particular favourite and comfort to him fell sick and, after a painful illness, died on 23 April 1851. During Annie's long illness Darwin had read books by Francis William Newman, a Unitarian evolutionist who called for a new post-Christian synthesis and wrote that \"the fretfulness of a child is an infinite evil\". Darwin wrote at the time, \"Our only consolation is that she passed a short, though joyous life.\" For three years he had deliberated about the Christian meaning of mortality. This opened a new vision of tragically circumstantial nature. His faith in Christianity had already dwindled away and he had stopped going to church. He wrote out his memories of Annie, but no longer believed in an afterlife or in salvation. Emma believed that Annie had gone to heaven and told this to the children, with the unfortunate result that Henrietta wondered, if all the angels were men, did women go to heaven?, and worried for months that her naughtiness while Annie was alive would mean that she would go to hell unless God forgave her.\n\nDarwin continued to avoid public controversy and to accumulate evidence supporting his theory against the anticipated arguments. In 1858 the information that Alfred Russel Wallace now had a similar theory forced an early joint publication of Darwin's theory. The reaction to Darwin's theory, even after publication of \"On the Origin of Species\" in 1859, was more muted than he had feared. One of the first responses to review copies came from Charles Kingsley, a Christian socialist country rector and novelist, who wrote that it was \"just as noble a conception of Deity, to believe that He created primal forms capable of self development... as to believe that He required a fresh act of intervention to supply the lacunas which He Himself had made.\" For the second edition, Darwin added these lines to the last chapter, with attribution to \"a celebrated author and divine\".\nIn 1860 seven liberal Anglican theologians caused a much greater furore by publishing a manifesto titled \"Essays and Reviews\" in which they sought to make textual criticism of the Bible available to the ordinary reader, as well as supporting Darwin. Their new \"higher criticism\" represented \"the triumph of the rational discourse of logos over myth.\" It argued that the Bible should not be read in an entirely literal manner, thus and would in the future become \"a bogey of Christian fundamentalists ... but this was only because Western people had lost the original sense of the mythical.\" The traditional Christians were just as vocal.\n\nThere was close correspondence between Darwin and his American collaborator Asa Gray, a devout Presbyterian who discussed with him the relationship of natural selection to natural theology and published several reviews arguing in detail that they were fully compatible. Darwin financed a pamphlet publishing a collection of these reviews for distribution in Britain. In one 1860 letter to Gray, Darwin expressed his doubts about the teleological argument which claimed nature as evidence of god, though he was still inclined to vaguely believe in an impersonal God as first cause:\nIn his autobiography written in 1876 Darwin reviewed questions about Christianity in relation to other religions and how \"the more we know of the fixed laws of nature the more incredible do miracles become\". Though \"very unwilling to give up my belief\", he found that \"disbelief crept over me at a very slow rate, but was at last complete. The rate was so slow that I felt no distress, and have never since doubted even for a single second that my conclusion was correct.\" He noted how \"The old argument of design in nature, as given by Paley, which formerly seemed to me so conclusive, fails, now that the law of natural selection has been discovered\", and how Paley's teleological argument had difficulties with the problem of evil.\n\nEven when writing \"On the Origin of Species\" in the 1850s he was still inclined to theism, but his views gradually changed to agnosticism:\nAlthough he is commonly portrayed as being in conflict with the Church of England, Darwin was supportive of the local parish church.\n\nOn moving to Downe, Kent in 1842, Darwin supported the parish church's work, and became a good friend of the Revd. John Innes who took over in 1846. Darwin contributed to the church, helped with parish assistance and proposed a benefit society which became the \"Down Friendly Society\" with Darwin as guardian and treasurer. His wife Emma Darwin became known throughout the parish for helping in the way a parson's wife might be expected to, and as well as providing nursing care for her own family's frequent illnesses she gave out bread tokens to the hungry and \"small pensions for the old, dainties for the ailing, and medical comforts and simple medicine\".\n\nInnes inherited his family home of Milton Brodie, in the Scottish Highlands near Forres. In 1862 he retired there and changed his name to Brodie Innes, leaving the parish in the dubious hands of his curate, the Revd. Stevens, while still remaining the patron. The meagre \"living\" and lack of a vicarage made it hard to attract a priest of quality. Innes made Darwin treasurer of Downe village school and they continued to correspond, with Innes seeking help and advice on parish matters. The Revd. Stevens proved lax, and departed in 1867. His successors were worse, one absconding with the school's funds and the church organ fund after Darwin mistakenly shared the treasurer's duties with him: Brodie Innes offered to sell Darwin the advowson, or right to appoint the parish priest, but Darwin declined. The next was rumoured to have disgraced himself by \"walking with girls at night\". Darwin now became involved in helping Innes with detective work, subsequently advising him that the gossip that had reached Innes was not backed up by any reliable evidence.\n\nA new reforming High Church vicar, the Revd. George Sketchley Ffinden, took over the parish in November 1871 and began imposing his ideas. Darwin had to write to Brodie Innes, explaining what had upset the parishioners. Ffinden now usurped control of the village school which had been run for years by a committee of Darwin, Lubbock and the incumbent priest, with a \"conscience clause\" which protected the children from Anglican indoctrination. Ffinden began lessons on the \"Thirty-nine Articles of the Anglican faith\", an unwelcome move from the point of view of the Baptists who had a chapel in the village. Darwin withdrew from the committee and cut his annual donation to the church, but continued with the Friendly Society work.\n\nFor two years Emma organised a winter reading room in the local school for local labourers, who subscribed a penny a week to smoke and play games, with \"Respectable newspapers & a few books... & a respectable housekeeper..there every evening to maintain decorum.\" This was a common facility to save men from \"resorting to the public house\". In 1873 the Revd. Ffinden opposed it, as \"Coffee drinking, bagatelle & other games\" had been allowed and \"the effects of tobacco smoke & spitting\" were seen when the children returned in the morning. Emma got Darwin to get the approval of the education inspectorate in London, and just before Christmas 1873 the Darwins and their neighbours the Lubbocks got the agreement of the school committee, offering to pay for any repairs needed \"to afford every possible opportunity to the working class for self improvement & amusement\". A furious Ffinden huffed that it was \"quite out of order\" for the Darwins to have gone to the inspectorate behind his back. Darwin's health suffered as he argued over natural selection with St. George Jackson Mivart, and in the autumn of 1874 Darwin expressed his exasperation at Ffinden when putting in his resignation from the school committee due to ill health.\n\nFfinden then refused to speak to any of the Darwins, and when two evening lectures were proposed for the village in 1875, Lubbock had to act as an intermediary in requesting use of the schoolroom. The committee agreed, but Ffinden refused to co-operate, writing that \"I had long been aware of the harmful tendencies to revealed religion of Mr. Darwin's views, but.. I had fully determined.. not to let my difference of opinion interfere with a friendly feeling as neighbours, trusting that God's grace might in time bring one so highly gifted intellectually and morally to a better mind.\" Darwin was equally haughty in return, condescending that \"If Mr. F bows to Mrs D. and myself, we will return it\".\n\nThe dispute with Ffinden reflected the Church of England narrowing its social provision to its own adherents as secular provision of education became more widespread. Though Darwin no longer attended church, he was willing to give patronage to Non-conformism, and the family welcomed and supported the work of the Non-conformist evangelist J. W. C. Fegan in the village of Downe.\n\nIn his 1871 book \"The Descent of Man\" Darwin clearly saw religion and \"moral qualities\" as being important evolved human social characteristics. Darwin's frequent pairing of \"Belief in God\" and religion with topics on superstitions and fetishism throughout the book can also be interpreted as indicating how much truth he assigned to the former.\n\nIn the introduction Darwin wrote:\n\nLater on in the book he dismisses an argument for religion being innate:\n\nFame and honours brought a stream of enquiries about Darwin's religious views, leading him to comment \"Half the fools throughout Europe write to ask me the stupidest questions.\" He sometimes retorted sharply, \"I am sorry to have to inform you that I do not believe in the Bible as a divine revelation, & therefore not in Jesus Christ as the Son of God\", and at other times was more guarded, telling a young count studying with Ernst Haeckel that \"Science has nothing to do with Christ; except in so far as the habit of scientific research makes a man cautious in admitting evidence. For myself I do not believe that there ever has been any Revelation. As for a future life, every man must judge for himself between conflicting vague probabilities.\" He declined a request by the Archbishop of Canterbury to join a 'Private Conference' of devout scientists to harmonise science and religion, for he saw \"no prospect of any benefit arising\" from it.\n\nWhen Brodie Innes sent on a sermon by E. B. Pusey, Darwin responded that he could \"hardly see how religion & science can be kept as distinct as he desires, as geology has to treat of the history of the Earth & Biology that of man.— But I most wholly agree with you that there is no reason why the disciples of either school should attack each other with bitterness, though each upholding strictly their beliefs. You, I am sure, have always practically acted in this manner in your conduct towards me & I do not doubt to all others. Nor can I remember that I have ever published a word directly against religion or the clergy.\" In response to an enquiry about the same sermon from the botanist Henry Nicholas Ridley, Darwin stated that \"Dr Pusey was mistaken in imagining that I wrote the \"Origin\" with any relation whatever to Theology\", and added that \"many years ago when I was collecting facts for the Origin, my belief in what is called a personal God was as firm as that of Dr Pusey himself, & as to the eternity of matter I have never troubled myself about such insoluble questions.— Dr Pusey's attack will be as powerless to retard by a day the belief in evolution as were the virulent attacks made by divines fifty years ago against Geology, & the still older ones of the Catholic church against Galileo\". Brodie Innes deplored \"unwise and violent\" theological attacks on his old friend, for while they had disagreements, \"How nicely things would go if other folk were like Darwin and Brodie Innes.\"\n\nIn a letter to a correspondent at the University of Utrecht in 1873, Darwin expressed agnosticism:\nIn 1873 Darwin's son George wrote an essay which boldly dismissed prayer, divine morals and \"future rewards & punishments\". Darwin wrote \"I would urge you not to publish it for some months, at the soonest, & then consider whether you think it new & important enough to counterbalance the evils; remembering the cart-loads which have been published on this subject. – The evils on giving pain to others, & injuring your own power & usefulness... It is an old doctrine of mine that it is of foremost importance for a young author to publish.. only what is very good & new... remember that an enemy might ask who is this man... that he should give to the world his opinions on the deepest subjects?... but my advice is to pause, pause, pause.\"\n\nDuring the public interest in Modern Spiritualism, Darwin attended a séance at Erasmus's house in January 1874, but as the room grew stuffy Darwin went upstairs to lie down, missing the show, with sparks, sounds and the table rising above their heads. While Francis Galton thought it a \"good séance\", Darwin later wrote \"The Lord have mercy on us all, if we have to believe such rubbish\" and told Emma that it was \"all imposture\" and \"it would take an enormous weight of evidence\" to convince him otherwise. At a second séance Huxley and George found that the medium was nothing but a cheat, to Darwin's relief.\n\nIn 1876 Darwin wrote the following regarding his publicly stated position of agnosticism: \"Formerly I was led... to the firm conviction of the existence of God and the immortality of the soul. In my Journal I wrote that whilst standing in the midst of the grandeur of a Brazilian forest, 'it is not possible to give an adequate idea of the higher feelings of wonder, admiration, and devotion, which fill and elevate the mind.' I well remember my conviction that there is more in man than the mere breath of his body. But now the grandest scenes would not cause any such convictions and feelings to rise in my mind.\"\n\nIn November 1878 when George Romanes presented his new book refuting theism, \"A Candid Examination of Theism\" by \"Physicus\", Darwin read it with \"very great interest\", but found it unconvincing; the arguments it put forward left open the possibility that God had initially created matter and energy with the potential of evolving to become organised.\n\nIn 1879 John Fordyce wrote asking if Darwin believed in God, and if theism and evolution were compatible. Darwin replied that \"a man may be an ardent Theist and an evolutionist\", citing Charles Kingsley and Asa Gray as examples, and for himself, \"In my most extreme fluctuations I have never been an atheist in the sense of denying the existence of a God.— I think that generally (& more and more so as I grow older) but not always, that an agnostic would be the most correct description of my state of mind.\"\n\nThose opposing religion often took Darwin as their inspiration and expected his support for their cause, a role he firmly refused. In 1880 there was a huge controversy when the atheist Charles Bradlaugh was elected as a member of parliament and then prevented from taking his seat in the House of Commons. In response, the secularist Edward Aveling toured the country leading protests. In October of that year Aveling wanted to dedicate his book on \"Darwin and his Works\" to Darwin and asked him for permission. Darwin declined, writing that \"though I am a strong advocate for free thought on all subjects, yet it appears to me (whether rightly or wrongly) that direct arguments against Christianity & theism produce hardly any effect on the public; & freedom of thought is best promoted by the gradual illumination of men's minds, which follows from the advance of science. It has, therefore, been always my object to avoid writing on religion, & I have confined myself to science. I may, however, have been unduly biased by the pain which it would give some members of my family, if I aided in any way direct attacks on religion.\"\n\nIn Germany militant \"Darwinismus\" elevated Darwin to heroic status. When the eminent Freethinker Doctor Ludwig Büchner requested an audience he thought he was greeting a noble ally. To Darwin this was a grotesque misunderstanding, but he felt unable to refuse. Darwin's wife Emma Darwin expressed her expectation that their guest \"will refrain from airing his very strong religious opinions\" and invited their old friend the Revd. John Brodie Innes. On Thursday 28 September 1881 Büchner arrived with Edward Aveling. Darwin's son Frank was also present. Darwin wittily explained that \"[Brodie] & I have been fast friends for 30 years. We never thoroughly agreed on any subject but once and then we looked at each other and thought one of us must be very ill\".\n\nIn uncharacteristically bold discussions after dinner Darwin asked his guests \"Why do you call yourselves Atheists?\" When they responded that they \"did not commit the folly of god-denial, [and] avoided with equal care the folly of god-assertion\", Darwin gave a thoughtful response, concluding that \"I am with you in thought, but I should prefer the word Agnostic to the word Atheist.\" Aveling replied that, \"after all, 'Agnostic' was but 'Atheist' writ respectable, and 'Atheist' was only 'Agnostic' writ aggressive.\" Darwin smiled and responded \"Why should you be so aggressive? Is anything gained by trying to force these new ideas upon the mass of mankind? It is all very well for educated, cultured, thoughtful people; but are the masses yet ripe for it?\" Aveling and Büchner questioned what would have happened if Darwin had been given that advice before publication of the \"Origin\", and had confined \"the revolutionary truths of Natural and Sexual Selection to the judicious few\", where would the world be? Many feared danger if new ideas were \"proclaimed abroad on the house-tops, and discussed in market-place and home. But he, happily for humanity, had by the gentle, irresistible power of reason, forced his new ideas upon the mass of the people. And the masses had been found ripe for it. Had he kept silence, the tremendous strides taken by human thought during the last twenty-one years would have been shorn of their fair proportions, perhaps had hardly been made at all. His own illustrious example was encouragement, was for a command to every thinker to make known to all his fellows that which he believed to be the truth.\"\n\nTheir talk turned to religion, and Darwin said \"I never gave up Christianity until I was forty years of age.\" He agreed that Christianity was \"not supported by the evidence\", but he had reached this conclusion only slowly. Aveling recorded this discussion, and published it in 1883 as a penny pamphlet. Francis Darwin thought it gave \"quite fairly his impressions of my father's views, but took issue with any suggestion of similar religious views, saying \"My father's replies implied his preference for the unaggressive attitude of an Agnostic. Dr. Aveling seems to regard the absence of aggressiveness in my father's views as distinguishing them in an unessential manner from his own. But, in my judgment, it is precisely differences of this kind which distinguish him so completely from the class of thinkers to which Dr. Aveling belongs.\"\n\nDarwin's Westminster Abbey funeral expressed a public feeling of national pride, and religious writers of all persuasions praised his \"noble character and his ardent pursuit of truth\", calling him a \"true Christian gentleman\". In particular the Unitarians and free religionists, proud of his Dissenting upbringing, supported his naturalistic views. The Unitarian William Carpenter carried a resolution praising Darwin's unravelling of \"the immutable laws of the Divine Government\", shedding light on \"the progress of humanity\", and the Unitarian preacher John White Chadwick from New York wrote that \"The nation's grandest temple of religion opened its gates and lifted up its everlasting doors and bade the King of Science come in.\"\n\nDarwin decided to leave a posthumous memoir for his family, and on Sunday 28 May 1876 he began \"Recollections of the Development of my mind and character\". He found this candid private memoir easy going, covering his childhood, university, life on the \"Beagle\" expedition and developing work in science. A section headed \"Religious Belief\" opened just before his marriage, and frankly discussed his long disagreement with Emma. At first he had been unwilling to give up his faith, and had tried to \"invent evidence\" supporting the Gospels, but just as his clerical career had died a slow \"natural death\", so too did his belief in \"Christianity as a divine revelation\". \"Inward convictions and feelings\" had arisen from natural selection, as had survival instincts, and could not be relied on. He was quick to show Emma's side of the story and pay tribute to \"your mother, ... so infinitely my superior in every moral quality ... my wise adviser and cheerful comforter\".\n\n\"The Autobiography of Charles Darwin\" was published posthumously, and quotes about Christianity were omitted by Darwin's wife Emma and his son Francis because they were deemed dangerous for Charles Darwin's reputation. Only in 1958 did Darwin's granddaughter Nora Barlow publish a revised version which contained the omissions. This included statements discussed above in Autobiography on gradually increasing disbelief, and others such as the following:\n\nThe \"Lady Hope Story\", first published in 1915, claimed that Darwin had reverted to Christianity on his sickbed. The claims were rejected by Darwin's children and have been dismissed as false by historians.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2674862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2674862", "title": "Saman Khuda", "text": "Saman Khuda\n\nSaman Khuda (Saman Khoda, Saman-khudat) was an 8th-century Persian noble whose descendants (the House of Saman) later became rulers of Persia (the Samanid Empire). He was a Dehqan from the village of Saman in Balkh province in present-day northern Afghanistan (then part of Persia). In the early 8th century, he came to Merv, seat of the Caliphal governor of Khorasan, Asad ibn 'Abd Allah al-Qasri (ruled 723-727). Saman was originally a Zoroastrian. However, he was so impressed with the piety of Asad ibn 'Abd-Allah al-Qasri, the Caliphal governor of Khorasan, that he converted to Islam. He named his son Asad, allegedly in the governor's honor.\n\nCaliph al-Mamun (786-833) subsequently appointed Asad's four sons – Saman Khuda's grandsons – as governors of Samarkand, Ferghana, Shash and Ustrushana, and Herat in recognition of their role in the suppression of a revolt. This began the House of Saman; Saman Khuda's great-grandson Isma'il ibn Ahmad (849-907) became Amir of Transoxiana and Khorasan.\n\nSaman was a 4th or 5th generation descendant of Bahram Chobin, a noble of the ancient House of Mihran, who played an important role in the history of the later Sassanian Empire.\n"}
{"id": "723799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=723799", "title": "Sanat Kumara", "text": "Sanat Kumara\n\nAccording to the post-1900 publications of Theosophy, Lord Sunat Kumara is an \"Advanced Being\" at the Ninth level of initiation who is regarded as the 'Lord' or 'Regent' of Earth and of the humanity, and is thought to be the head of the Spiritual Hierarchy of Earth who dwells in Shamballah (also known as 'The City of Enoch').\n\nShamballah is said by the adherents to the Ascended Master Teachings, to be a floating city manifested on the etheric plane somewhere above the Gobi Desert in the borderlands of Mongolia.\n\nThe Great White Brotherhood is a spiritual 'fraternity' of Ascended Beings, including Lord Sunat Kumara, long since dedicated to the eventual Salvation of Mankind and the establishment of Divine Law again in this Three-dimensional reality.\n\nAccording to Elizabeth Van Buren, the Brotherhood once maintained (earthly) headquarters hidden in a remote valley near a sacred lake in old Tibet, until relatively recently, when, possibly due to the surmised threat of Communist China, they withdrew, allegedly through subterranean tunnels to an alternative earthly location in Peru, where they are still reported as having an earth base (circa 1985).\n\nThese authors believe that Lord Sunat Kumara is the founder of the Great White Brotherhood, composed of Masters of the Ancient Wisdom (called in the Ascended Master Teachings Ascended Masters) and volunteers from other worlds who have joined together to advance spiritual evolution on Earth.\n\nSanat Kumara appears as a rishi in the Hindu religious text the Chandogya Upanishad. A shrine to Sanat Kumara which attracts and unites people of all religions and faiths is situated in the town of Kataragama, Sri Lanka. In Sanskrit, \"Sanat Kumara\" is \"Eternal Youth\" (from Sanat \"eternal\", Ku \"with difficulty\" and Mara \"mortal\").\n\nThe Kumar resides in the most sublime center of our planet, Shamballa, the sahasrara of the world. The Kumara has several names, relating to the sahasrara centers of different Systemic Existences: At the Supra-Cosmic plane, he is called \"Sanatana\"; at the Cosmic plane, it is \"Subrahmanya\"; at the Solar plane, the Kumara is \"Sanaka\"; at the Planetary plane, it is \"Sanandana\"; and on this planet, it is \"Sanath\" Kumara. So Sanath Kumara is an aspect of Kumara that resides in Shamballa.\n\nScriptures, especially the Mahabharata, say that it is Sanath Kumara who comes down to help the Divine Plan of Creation, when Lord Krishna came to be. He was born to Lord Krishna as his son, and he was named Pradyumna. Sanath Kumara incarnates himself through the Divine Mother Rukmini as Pradyumna. On completion of his work, He again gets back to his original position and takes to the seat in Shambala as Sanath Kumara. These details are given in the last chapters of Mahabharata.\n\n\"Shambhala\" (Tib. \"bde 'byung\") in Vajrayana Buddhism (the religion of Tibet) is a Sanskrit term meaning \"place of peace/tranquility/happiness\". Gautama Buddha is said by Vajrayana Buddhists to have taught the Kalachakra tantra on request of King Suchandra of Shambhala; the teachings are also said to be preserved in Shamballa. The Stanzas of Dzyan from which Madame Blavatsky claimed to have gotten the information in The Secret Doctrine are believed by some scholars to have been a mistranslation of words \"Kalachakra tantra\" (\"rGyud-sde\" in Tibetan). Shambhala is ruled over by a line of Kings of Shambhala known as Kulika or Kalki Kings (Tib. \"Rigden\"), a monarch who upholds the integrity of the \"Kalachakra tantra\". In the teachings of Vajrayana Buddhism, the King of Shamballa is often metaphorically referred to as \"The King of the World\". Shamballa was thought by the Tibetans to be somewhere north of Lake Manasarovar and its adjacent Mount Kailasa, a sacred mountain in Tibet where it is thought that all the dragon currents intersect.\n\nThe ancient Buddhist temple, Kurama-dera in Japan, is host to a unique bodhisattva, the \"Defender Lord\", who is said to come from the planet Venus 6.5 million years ago. He is described as having the appearance of a 16-year-old boy.\n\nSanat Kumara was mentioned briefly by the theosophist Helena Blavatsky. She claimed he belonged to a group of beings, the \"Lords of the Flame\", whom Christian tradition has presented as Lucifer and the fallen angels.\n\nSanat Kumara gained greater prominence when Blavatsky's close-friend and colleague Charles W. Leadbeater wrote that Sanat Kumara was the \"King\" or \"Lord of the World\", and the head of the Great White Brotherhood of Mahatmas who had revealed the principles of theosophy.\n\nLater authors who draw from Theosophical teachings such as Alice Bailey and Elizabeth Clare Prophet have added to the story with further details. He is usually depicted as having the appearance of a 16-year-old boy, said to be the incarnation of the Will of the Logos, and purportedly possesses an unaging body not born of mortal woman.\n\nC.W. Leadbeater and later adherents of Theosophy such as Alice A. Bailey believe that Sanat Kumara descended from the etheric plane of the planet Venus to Earth 18,500,000 years ago (A.E. Powell gives a figure of 16,500,000 years ago; Elizabeth Clare Prophet of Church Universal and Triumphant does not give a specific date but says it was a minimum of 2,500,000 years ago). In Theosophy, the beings that helped Sanat Kumara organize the expedition from Venus are called the \"Lords of the Flame\". C.W. Leadbeater and Annie Besant said that Sanat Kumara brought 30 \"Lords of the Flame\" with him from Venus to help him set up his colony. In the later version of the story promulgated by Guy Ballard, notable \"Lords of the Flame\" include Gautama Buddha, and the World Teacher (the being referred to alternately as Maitreya or Christ by Benjamin Creme). Elizabeth Clare Prophet's Church Universal and Triumphant teaches that Sanat Kumara and the Lords of the Flame also brought 144,000 souls with them from Venus. Alice Bailey, on the other hand, gives the number 105 only. The prior incarnation and only incarnation of Maitreya, the Lord of Consciousness, according to some interpretations (not C.W. Leadbeater's), is Gauthama Siddartha Sakyamuni / Lord Buddha; according to these interpretations, he essentially 'overshadowed' the body of Gautama Siddhartha Buddha with Siddhartha's permission.\n\nSanat Kumara is regarded as the great guru, saviour of Earth. Believers in him see him in all the major religions, as Skanda/Kartikkeya in Hinduism, Brahma-Sanam Kumar in Buddhism, the Ancient of Days in Judeo-Christian traditions, and identify him as Ahura Mazda in Zoroastrianism (although the last of these claims is contested from a lack of information on the subject). It is also considered that Sanat Kumara is Al Khdir (green man) known to Sufi Muslims (according to Dakshinamurti).\n\nIt is maintained in most of these versions of Theosophy that Venus, the 'Planet of Love', is the most spiritually advanced planet of our solar system. The beings living on the etheric plane of Venus are said to be hundreds of millions of years ahead of us in their spiritual evolution. It is said that the governing council of Venus – the \"Seven Holy Kumars\" – sent one of themselves, Sanat Kumara, here to guide us.\n\nAccording to Theosophy, once Sanat Kumara arrived here, he directed the construction of the city of Shamballa on the etheric plane above the Gobi Desert to serve as his headquarters. Elizabeth Clare Prophet teaches that Shamballa was built physically on the White Island in the Gobi Sea (now the Gobi Desert), and was only later withdrawn from the physical to the etheric plane.\n\nThe main temple of Shamballa is topped with a golden dome and is surrounded by seven smaller temples—one for each of the seven rays. These temples are located on a number of wide boulevards resembling the Champs-Elysees. According to Elizabeth Clare Prophet, George Washington was divinely inspired by the Ascended Masters to choose city planner Pierre L'Enfant to create the city plan of Washington DC which, it is claimed, he unconsciously modeled on the plan of the city of Shamballa.\n\nThe most common title attributed to Lord Sanat Kumara in the Theosophical religious tradition is \"Lord of the World\". C.W. Leadbeater also states that an important duty of Sanat Kumara is to participate in an elaborate ritual every Wesak (the Full Moon of May) led by Gautama Buddha, and also participated in by the Maitreya (the being Theosophists identify as Christ), in which cosmic energy is focused from the \"Solar Logos\" to Earth in order to keep our planet's cosmic energy in balance. The ritual is said to take place in a ravine in southern Tibet (the Frontispiece of Leadbeater's book \"The Masters and the Path\" has a picture of the ritual taking place) and, it is stated by Leadbeater, can be viewed by in the etheric body or in the physical body by those who have etheric sight.\n\nParadoxically, two other common appellations of Sanat Kumara are two opposite titles: \"The Ancient of Days\" (because he has been on Earth millions of years) and \"The Youth of Sixteen Summers\" (because even though he is millions of years old, he still looks like he is 16 years old). Another of his titles is \"The One Initiator\" because it is said by C. W. Leadbeater in the \"Masters and the Path\" that he personally performs the initiation ceremony for anyone who has reached the third level of spiritual initiation. Alice A. Bailey indicates the same in her writings.\n\nIn the all organizations subscribing to the \"Ascended Master Teachings\", Sanat Kumara is presented as an Ascended Master. He is also currently, according to the Ascended Master Teachings, known as the \"Regent Lord of the World\" in deference to Gautama Buddha having taken the office of \"Lord of the World\". (1956). With Sananda Buddha taking on more of the day-to-day administrative tasks of governing the planet, this arrangement allows Sanat Kumara more time for the long-range galactic planning and interstellar diplomacy that is necessary for him to prepare Earth for its eventual admission to what Joshua David Stone calls the Galactic Confederation of Planets.\n\nSanat Kumara's symbol of the authority of his office as \"Lord of the World\" is a , magic wand called the \"Rod of Power\" made of the metal orichalcum, with cone-shaped diamonds on each end.\n\nThe Bridge to Freedom, Church Universal and Triumphant and all other \"Ascended Master Teachings\" organizations believe that Sanat Kumara has a \"Divine Complement\" (\"Twin Flame\") (i.e., a \"celestial wife\") – Lady Master Venus – the New Age \"Goddess of Love\". The Ascended \"Lady Master Venus\" is usually depicted as having the appearance of a 16-year-old girl. Sanat Kumara is believed to have married Lady Master Venus millions of years ago on Venus before he came to Earth.\n\nAccording to the Ascended Master Teachings, Sanat Kumara and the Lady Master Venus have a daughter named the Lady Master Meta who they brought with them from Venus. She is said to have incarnated as an Avatar in Atlantis (where she served as the high priestess at the \"Temple of Healing\") and in Sassanian Persia, where she married a mortal and had three children. In the Ascended Master Teachings, she is revered as the \"Goddess of Healing\" and is the patron deity of doctors and nurses. Since she is immortal, possessing a celestial body like Sanat Kumara and the Lady Master Venus, she, like the Lady Master Venus, also has the appearance of a 16-year-old girl.\n\nAccording to the Ascended Master Teachings, the Master Cha Ara \nwas originally one of the three children of Lady Master Meta when she incarnated as an Avatar in Sassanian Persia. He became a master alchemist who formulated an elixir of immortality made from rose petals, tea leaves from mcleod ganj and other ingredients. This enabled him to quickly achieve ascended masterhood. He uses small amounts of the elixir to heal people. He is the protector of all Zoroastrians. He works with St. Germain to bring about the New Age in the West Americas. Lady Master Meta’s husband and her other two children from her descent as an Avatar to Sassanian Persia have also become ascended masters but their names have not yet been revealed.\n\nIn the Ascended Master Teachings, a group of religions based on Theosophy, Lady Master Nada is the \"Chohan of the Sixth Ray\" (see Seven Rays), and is the Ascended Lady Master governing humanity's development of the Divine Qualities of Ministration, Service, and Peace. The colors of her Ray are purple and gold, and also ruby.\n\nShe is also considered a Member of the Karmic Board; she handles the appeals of those on the third ray. She is believed by those adherent to the Ascended Master Teachings to have succeeded the previous Chohan, the Master Jesus / Sananda Buddha, on January 1, 1956, when she is said to have fully taken on the Office of Chohan of the Sixth Ray., thus advancing from the fifth to the sixth level of initiation. She primarily serves at \"Arabian Retreat\" in the Arabian Peninsula, northeast of the Red Sea. Nada serves there with the Brothers and Sisters of the Indigo Cape, as well as with Jesus, his Mother Mary and El Samyam, the Chief of the Arabian Council. She also serves at \"The Rose Temple\", located on the etheric plane above New Bedford, Massachusetts. Designed after the pattern of a rose, with each \"petal\" being a room, this Retreat is the etheric counterpart of the \"Temple of Love\" on Atlantis where Nada once served as a High Priestess. In another human incarnate life in Atlantis, she was a lawyer. She was described as having raised her body and Ascended approximately 2,776 years ago.\n\nAlthough the Lady Master Nada's home residence (called in the Ascended Master Teachings her \"retreat\") is underground on the etheric plane on the Arabian peninsula, according to the Ascended Master Teachings, she teleports to Shamballa every workday to her day job on the Karmic Board, hearing the cases of those souls who are on the third ray.\n\nAccording to the \"I AM\" Activity, the Church Universal and Triumphant and others, the Ascended Masters (The great beings the original Theosophists called the \"Masters of the Ancient Wisdom\"), such as the Master Jesus, Saint Germain, Megha Alcorn aka Megan Sebastian on Earth, Kuthumi, Hatton, Gopal Das and others are working for the Spiritual Hierarchy of our planet, under the leadership of Lord Sanat Kumara, Gautama Buddha, and Maitreya. Many theosophists believe the \"Masters\" utilize the cosmic power of the Seven Rays to advance the \"Plan of the Masters\" to encourage the continual advance of civilization on Earth toward higher levels of consciousness. One of the beliefs of adherents of these belief systems is that the Masters of Wisdom have united together in an organization called the \"Great White Brotherhood\".\n\nThe Theosophist A.E. Powell stated that Sanat Kumara (whom he refers to as the \"Lord of the World\") is in continuous telepathic rapport with ANNA / Gaia, the \"Spirit of the Earth\" (i.e., the \"Planetary Logos\" – equivalent to the goddess known in some religions as Gaia or as Prithivi in Hinduism).C.W. Leadbeater and Alice A. Bailey stated that Sanat Kumara is in continuous telepathic rapport with the Solar Logos (the Being considered by Theosophists as the consciousness of the Sun). It is believed in Theosophy that Sanat Kumara captures the mystical power of the Seven Rays from the Solar Logos and distributes it to his assistants who guide the spiritual evolution of humanity, the \"Masters of the Ancient Wisdom\" (the Ascended Masters), who then focus the power to us. An intermediate trinity of Pratyeka-Buddhas assists Lord Buddha in stepping down this power from Sanat Kumara to Earth's Spiritual Hierarchy, and these Buddhas are also said to be Kumars originally from Venus.\n\nAccording to the \"Alice A. Bailey material\", Lord Sanat Kumara conducts business in an enormous room in his palace called \"The Council Chamber of the Lord of the World\". It is here that he regularly meets with Maitreya, the Maha Chohan, Djwal Khul, St. Germain, the Master Jesus and the other Masters of the Ancient Wisdom, of which it is said there are 24 principal council members, to assess the progress being made in implementing \"The Plan of the Masters\" to bring the human race to higher levels of consciousness. According to C.W. Leadbeater, it is also here that he periodically personally receives ambassadors from other solar systems.\n\nAccording to the \"Alice A. Bailey material\", Sanat Kumara has many assistants who help him in his arduous task of spiritually governing Earth as its presiding Regent. \nThese include The Watcher (also called the \"Silent Watcher\" or the \"Great Silent Watcher\"), whose function it is to continually watch the Akashic records and download daily all the information on them relevant to the life waves of Earth and forward it to the \"Custodian of the Hall of Records\". (the Watcher is part of a special race of beings who fulfill this function that are posted on planets throughout the Cosmos ); the Lords of Karma – Alice A. Bailey mentioned three \"Lords of Karma\" but did not name them; they are called in the Ascended Master Teachings the Karmic Board and they are stated to number seven and each of them is identified by name: The Great Divine Director (1st ray), The Goddess of Liberty (2nd ray), Lady Master Nada (3rd ray), Cyclopea (4th ray), Pallas Athena (5th ray), Lady Master Portia (6th ray), and Kwan Yin (7th ray). The Karmic Board decides when souls that are between lives are to reincarnate again (if a disembodied soul desires to reincarnate somewhere or somewhen else than where they have been assigned, they must file an appeal with the Karmic Board—each person has to file an appeal to the member of the board that handles the appeals for their \"soul ray\"); and the one Alice A. Bailey calls the Custodian of the Hall of Records (called the Keeper of the Scrolls in the Ascended Master Teachings), the being who is in charge of the \"Hall of Records\", an enormous administrative complex near Sanat Kumara’s palace in the etheric city of Shamballa—this is where the \"Recording Angels\" and those souls who are between incarnations who volunteer to give up their time in Summerland and help perform this work make visual records (utilizing the most advanced supercomputers on the etheric plane of Earth) of everything that happens in everyone’s lives on Earth. The raw data is first downloaded daily by \"The Watcher\" from the Akashic records and fed by him to the \"Custodian of the Hall of Records\" and thence forwarded to the \"recording angels\" and their volunteer helpers. These imprint records are sorted daily first into one of seven general files by the \"soul ray\" (see seven rays) of the soul that is reincarnating, and then downloaded from that general file into a special individual file for each soul that can be consulted by the \"Karmic Board\" if that soul makes an appeal before it.\n\nOmri-Tas, the \"Ruler of the Violet Planet\", is a Galactic level Ascended Master (Spiritual Hierarchy, Cosmic Beings) who with his celestial mate, Irmo-Sat, , is Sanat Kumara's violet flame supplier. The violet flame is composed of a special type of etheric matter particles, which may plausibly be called \"violetrons\", that are capable of cleansing bad karma. \"Omri-Tas\" rules a planet on the etheric plane called the Violet Planet, which is apparently several dozen to several hundred light years from Earth. The Violet Planet is one of many throughout the Cosmos that serve as reservoirs for the violet flame. Omri-Tas is the ruler of the Violet Planet that is closest to Earth and which is responsible for transmitting the violet flame from the Great Central Sun of the Cosmos via the Galactic Logos to planets in Ursa Major (Our sector is reputedly 'Sector Nine' of the 48 Sectors in this spiral Galaxy). Omri-Tas or one of his representatives periodically teleports from the Violet Planet to Shamballa with canisters of violet flame to replenish the violet flame in the large circular pool in the \"Temple of the Violet Flame\" in Shamballa (In return for the violet flame. Lord Sanat Kumara assigns to his care and tutelage worthy initiated Adepts/Chelas for etheric transport to their next assignments.\n\nBenjamin Creme subscribes to the modern esoteric view that Nordic aliens (like those mentioned by George Adamski – Creme accepts Adamski's sightings as valid.) pilot flying saucers from the Way-Station on Venus that is thought to exist on the etheric plane (Esotericists believe that since the Venusians' civilization is on the \"etheric plane\", the planet's heat doesn't affect them) and are capable of stepping down the level of vibration of themselves and their craft to the slower level of vibration of the atoms of the physical plane. Thus, Creme's followers assume that Sanat Kumara and the 'Lords of the Flame' [See Elizabeth Van Buren's Book of the same name.](Nordic aliens themselves) visit from Venus in a flying saucer. How, they ask, did Sanat Kumara get to Earth from Venus if it wasn't on a flying saucer? Creme's disciples believe that there is regular flying saucer traffic between Venus and Shamballa as well as other locations on Earth, especially areas where crop circles appear. Creme's acolytes believe that Shamballa is equipped with an astrodrome as well as with numerous flying saucer landing pads attached to the tops or the sides of the buildings to accommodate the heavy flying saucer traffic from Venus. Since Shamballa is envisioned as a floating city about five miles above the surface of the earth on the etheric plane, there are also numerous entrances in the basements of the buildings, where flying saucers can enter from the bottom of the city and park in spacious flying saucer parking garages provided in the basement levels of the buildings. In addition, says Creme, the Venusians have cigar-shaped mother ships up to four miles long to accommodate the transport of multiple individual flying saucers to and from Venus. According to Creme, sometimes flying saucers from places more distant than Venus, such as from Mars, the Moons of Jupiter, Uranus, Sirius, the Pleiades, and beyond, fly in to pay a visit at Shamballa. Since, according to Creme, the Venusians flying saucer designers outsource the actual construction of their flying saucers to the Martians (who are said to dwell on the etheric plane of Mars), whom he describes as the \"master engineers of the solar system\", Shamballa provides a convenient neutral ground where the Venusians and the Martians can meet to evaluate new flying saucer designs and negotiate flying saucer construction contracts between themselves.\n\nThe Master Ashtar was first incorporated into the Ascended Master Teachings by Joshua David Stone in the early 1990s, based on his incorporation of the early 1980s revelations of the medium Tuella into his own teachings. Stone had already begun teaching in 1993, based on the early 1980s revelations of Tuella, that the Master Jesus, under his galactic name Sananda (the name, Stone stated, he adopted after his resurrection), works with Commander Ashtar, flying with Pallas Athena in their own flying saucer within the Ashtar Galactic Command flying saucer fleet as its \"Commander-in-Chief\". According to Stone, another name used by \"Commander Ashtar\" to denote his flying saucer fleet is \"The Airborne Division of the Great White Brotherhood\". Although the Ashtar Command is ultimately under the titular authority of Sanat Kumara, the Master Jesus in consultation with Pallas Athena and Ashtar, make all the day to day command decisions. Stone continued to present these teachings after 1996 at the yearly Wesak Mount Shasta gatherings.\n\nAccording to some, The Ashtar Command is simply a modern concept of the Sumerian/Babylonian goddess and deity Astarte/Ishtar/Isis and her entourage whose assigned function is to protect an evolving mankind from the Satanic forces, then extant, on this planet, that sought to usurp the Earthly Regency of the local Ascended Masters in their role of protecting and engendering Divine Law upon the Earth until the arrival, at 'The Meridian of Time' of 'The Son of God'... Jesus/Sananda and his incarnation of 'The Christ Being'.\n\nLourene Altiery, also known as \"Karita\" to her followers, is an Ascended Master Teachings teacher originally from Joliet, Illinois who now resides in Sun Lakes, Arizona – she set up her website in 2001. According to Altiery, there are four Masters originally from the Spiritual Hierarchy Cosmic beings said to be patrolling near Ashtar Galactic Command Flying Saucer Fleet who are now permanently stationed on Shamballa. These are the Masters Ballerian, who is the proprietor of a flying saucer repair facility in Shamballa called \"God's Garage\"; Kumad, an expert linguist who helps the Keeper of the Scrolls decipher and interpret ancient manuscripts; Ashlem, a Tibetan Master who resides at the Hall of Records and helps people decipher their past lives by assisting them in accessing the Akashic records; and Sutko, the \"space detective\", who helps the Master K-17 solve unusually difficult cases. Elements of the \"Ashtar Galactic Command Flying Saucer Fleet\" sometimes dock at Shamballa so the flying saucer crews can go on 'shore leave'.\n\nAccording to the Ascended Master Teachings of Anne Bellringer of Rapid City, South Dakota, who began teaching in 1990, Hatonn, an android Pleiadean Master who flies aboard the flying saucer \"Phoenix\" (one of the flying saucers of the \"Ashtar Galactic Command Flying Saucer Fleet\", piloted by Hatonn’s partner the Master Soltec), monitors events on Earth for the \"Galactic Hall of Records\" at the galactic core.\n\nHe feeds information about events on Earth via subspace relay to the supercomputers at the \"Galactic Hall of Records\". However, Bellringer says that this activity is secondary to Hatonn's primary task, which is functioning as the liaison officer between Sanat Kumara and the Pleiadeans in order for him to be able to help Earth safely navigate in 2012 through the approaching so-called \"photon belt\", said to emanate from the Pleiades.\n\nAccording to many Christians, notably the anti-New Age author Constance Cumbey, New Age Leaders, including Masters of the Illuminati, are actually worshipping the Lord of this World, whose name is Sanat Kumara (Alice Bailey, \"Externalisation of the Hierarchy\", p. 676, 709, 725; and Elizabeth Van Buren, \"The Secret of the Illuminati\", p. 1). Bailey goes on to explain that Sanat Kumara is the \"life and the forming intelligence\", presiding over the Council of Shamballa [the Heaven of Earth according to New Age doctrine]. (\"The New Age Dictionary\", p. 172) Further, Sanat Kumara is \"the eternal youth from the Planet Venus\". The name Lucifer is one of the ancient Greek names for Venus. Therefore, according to Cumbey, Sanat Kumara is merely another name for Satan or Lucifer. (Cumbey, \"Hidden Dangers of the Rainbow\") [7].\n\nOther New Age leaders have tried to separate themselves from the Illuminati movement, and view that burdening the two groups as entirely coexistent is inaccurate and ineffectual. New Age theosophy also counters these critics, teaching the fact that the being known as Sanat Kumara would rather see spiritual harmony and peace, a fact which many Illuminati members ignore and abuse.\n\nIn the glossary of in the back of the book \"Alchemy\", which Elizabeth Clare Prophet claims was dictated to her by Kuthumi, Satan and Sanat Kumara are clearly distinguished as two different and opposed beings—Satan working for evil and Sanat Kumara for good.\n\nThe scholar K. Paul Johnson maintains that the \"Masters\" that Madame Blavatsky wrote about and produced letters from were actually idealizations of people who were her mentors. However, \"Sanat Kumara\", although mentioned in passing by Madame Blavatsky, was never mentioned by her as an important \"Master\" that Blavatsky claimed to have met. He was first presented, under the name \"Lord of the World\", as the head of the \"Masters\" by C.W. Leadbeater in his 1925 book \"The Masters and the Path\".\n\nPanelology\nVideo games\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42971362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42971362", "title": "Santa Maria di Nazareth", "text": "Santa Maria di Nazareth\n\nSanta Maria di Nazareth (translated into Saint Mary of Nazareth) is the name of at least two churches in Italy:\n"}
{"id": "7651180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7651180", "title": "Shem Tov ben Abraham ibn Gaon", "text": "Shem Tov ben Abraham ibn Gaon\n\nShem Tov ben Abraham ibn Gaon (1283-ca. 1330) (Hebrew: שם טוב בן אברהם אבן גאון) was a Spanish Talmudist and kabbalist.\n\nShem Tov was born at Soria, Spain. From his genealogy given in the preface to his \"Keter Shem Tov\", Azulai (\"Shem ha-Gedolim\", ii., s.v. \"Keter Shem Tov\") concluded that \"Gaon\" must have been the proper name of one of Shem Tov's ancestors. Zunz (in his \"Zeitschrift für die Wissenschaft des Judenthums\", p. 137) and Geiger (\"Jüd. Zeit.\" v. 397), however, suppose \"Gaon\" to be the Hebrew transliteration of \"Jaén\", indicating that Shem Tov's family originally came from that Spanish city. After he had studied Talmud under Solomon ben Adret and Kabbala under Isaac ben Todros (RIBaṬ, which is the abbreviation, David Conforte declares in his \"Ḳore ha-Dorot\", p. 24b, of \"R. Joseph b. Tobiah\"), Shem Tov betook himself to Palestine in the hope of finding in the Holy Land a more suitable place for kabbalistic meditation. He sojourned for some time in Jerusalem, and then settled at Safed.\n\nAt Safed Shem Tov wrote the following works, of which only the first two have been published: \n\nThe \"Keter-Shem Tov\" is a supercommentary on and continuation of Nahmanides' commentary (particularly on the kabalistic part) on the Pentateuch, from whose interpretations those of Shem Tov differ in many places. Shem Tov says in his preface that at first he had entitled his work \"Sitre Setarim\", and that he then revised it and gave it the title \"Keter Shem Tov\", the work having been completed at Safed in 1315. Isaac ben Samuel of Acre, in his \"Me'irat 'Enayim\", violently attacks the \"Keter Shem Tov\", saying that most of the author's theories are not those of the older cabalists, but are simply his own inventions. This work is printed at the end of Judah Koriat's \"Ma'or wa-Shemesh\" (Leghorn, 1839), where it is entitled \"Perush Sodot ha-Torah\"; and the preface has been published in Jehiel Ashkenazi's \"Hekal Adonai\" (Venice, n.d.) under the title \"Perush Liḳḳuṭim.\"\n\nIn a manuscript containing piyyuṭim of various liturgists there is one written by a Shem Tov b. Abraham, whom L. Dukes (\"Orient, Lit.\" vi. 147 et seq.) supposes to be identical with the subject of this article. But Dukes seems to have distinguished between Shem Tov b. Abraham and Shem Tov of Soria, the author of the \"Sefer ha-Pe'er.\" On the other hand, Conforte (l.c.) confusing Shem Tov b. Abraham with Shem Tov Ardotial, wrongly ascribes to the former the \"widdui\" (confession) recited on Yom Kippur in the Musaf prayer.\n\nThe following works are erroneously attributed to Shem Tov b. Abraham ibn Gaon by Wolf (\"Bibl. Hebr.\" iii., No. 2152) and by other bibliographers: \"Keter Shem Tov\" (Venice, 1601), a collection of sermons, and \"Ma'amar Mordekai\" (Constantinople, 1585), a commentary on Book of Esther, the author of both works being Shem Tov Melammed; also a kabalistic treatise by an unknown author on the crowns (\"taggin\") of the letters.\n\n"}
{"id": "52202415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52202415", "title": "The Crusader (newspaper)", "text": "The Crusader (newspaper)\n\n\"The Crusader\" has been used as a name of a newspaper in different contexts:\n"}
{"id": "1891254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1891254", "title": "Ulf Ekman", "text": "Ulf Ekman\n\nUlf Ekman (born 8 December 1950 in Gothenburg) is a former charismatic pastor and the founder of the charismatic Livets Ord (Word of Life) organization in Sweden, which brought the Word of Faith movement to that country. Ekman is now Catholic. Ekman is married to Birgitta Ekman and has 4 sons, Aron, Jonathan, Samuel and Benjamin.\n\nIn his youth, Ekman was a member of a Swedish Communist party KFML(r) before becoming a Christian, graduating from high school in 1970. He studied ethnography, history and theology at Uppsala University and in January 1979 was ordained in the Church of Sweden, returning to Uppsala University to work as the chaplain for several years. He studied for a year at Rhema Bible Training Center in Tulsa, Oklahoma, United States and upon his return to Uppsala in 1983 founded Livets Ord. He remained pastor of the church until passing on the pastorship to Robert Ekh in 2002 to focus on international work, though he later took up the position again. He also founded Livets Ord University and Word of Life Bible School.\n\nThrough his church he has sent missionaries to Bangladesh, Russia, Ukraine, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Albania, Israel and India. Word of Life is also the host for the annual Christian event \"Europe Conference.\" In the former USSR he started to preach in pentecostal churches and in stadiums. In Riga, Latvia he worked closely with Aleksej Ledyaev and the \"New Generation Church\" where he is a pastor. In almost every big city of the former USSR a Word of Life Church and a New Generation Church was established. The number of people reached with the Gospel can be estimated to be between 250,000–500,000 people. Cooperation with New Generation Church ended in March 2004 in doctrinal disagreement.\n\nIn the charismatic world, Ulf Ekman is considered to be a mentor, a spiritual father, and a pastor of pastors. Rev. Kong Hee has claimed Ulf Ekman to be his spiritual coach, and over the years they have had a close relationship.\n\nDuring his Sunday service on 3 March 2013, Ekman informed the assembly of a major change – he, its founder and its pastor for 30 years, would resign in May and be succeeded by Joakim Lundqvist, the up–to–then youth pastor of the congregation.\n\nOn 9 March 2014, Ekman announced his and his wife's leaving Livets Ord with the intent of joining the Catholic Church. He indicated, that he received a confirming word of prophecy ahead of his decision from a pastor that just had attended Kenneth Copeland's Charismatic Evangelical Leadership Conference in February 2014, a Conference to which Pope Francis sent a video message through Tony Palmer urging for the protest of the Reformation to come to an end\n\nLike many new Christian movements, Word of Life has been criticized by other Christians, but in particular by the media. Many critics claim that Word of Life's teachings about health and economic abundance created a survival of the fittest attitude, in opposition to the Christian ascetic ideal of being poor and humble. Ekman and Word of Life always responded to this criticism by saying that they strongly believed in God's promises in the Bible. Ekman claimed that a false image was created in the Swedish media on Word of Life as being against, for example, disabled persons, when the outspoken message was that God promises deliverance from sickness.\n\nEkman's theology, along with other representatives of the Word of Faith movement, was criticized for having gnostic elements. A thesis written by Kent Gunnarsson at Umeå University, published in 2004, had this claim. The opponent at the dissertation, Professor Alexander Radler, criticized Gunnarsson for a too-wide definition of Gnosticism. Radler appreciated Gunnarsson's thesis for its rich information about modern Gnosticism, but thought that Ekman's teachings could not be seen as gnostic. Ekman's own attitude against Gnosticism is negative.\n\nLater on, Ekman rarely preached the typical Word of Faith teachings. He partially criticized some of them (for example, the Jesus Died Spiritually doctrine), but also wrote and said that the ground for his preaching was the revelation in the Bible he got from first listening to teachers like Kenneth Copeland and later studying at Kenneth Hagin's school in Tulsa.\n\nEkman seems to have broadened his doctrinal horizons with studies in patristic and church history. He has now an ecumenical approach to other congregations. In 2006 the bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Stockholm, Anders Arborelius, was invited to Word of Life church in Uppsala for a public discussion. Through the Livets Ord University, which is a branch of the Oral Roberts University, Ekman published a theological magazine called Keryx, containing articles from a broad, classical Christian point of view. This magazine had articles from different Christian traditions and excerpts from patristic writings. But a critical analysis of the Word of Faith movement's own teachings hasn’t been published to this day.\n\nIn 2014, Ekman and his family converted to Roman Catholicism. He claims that the \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" is \"the best book he has ever read\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "285058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=285058", "title": "Vimana", "text": "Vimana\n\nVimāna are the flying palaces or chariots described in Hindu texts and Sanskrit epics. The Pushpaka Vimana of the king Ravana (who took it from Lord Kubera; Rama returned it to Kubera) is the most quoted example of a vimana. Vimanas are also mentioned in Jain texts.\n\nThe Sanskrit word \"vi-māna\" (विमान) literally means \"measuring out, traversing\" or \"having been measured out\". Monier Monier-Williams defines Vimana as \"a car or a chariot of the gods, any self-moving aerial car sometimes serving as a seat or throne, sometimes self-moving and carrying its occupant through the air; other descriptions make the Vimana more like a house or palace, and one kind is said to be seven stories high\", and quotes the Pushpaka Vimana of Ravana as an example. It may denote any car or vehicle, especially a bier or a ship as well as a palace of an emperor, especially with seven stories. In some modern Indian languages like Tamil, Malayalam, Telugu, and Hindi, \"vimana\" or \"vimanam\" means \"aircraft\", for example in the town name Vimanapura (a suburb of Bangalore) and Vimannagar, a town in Pune. In another context, Vimana is a feature in Hindu temple architecture.\n\nThe predecessors of the flying \"vimanas\" of the Sanskrit epics are the flying chariots employed by various gods in the Vedas: the Sun (see Sun chariot) and Indra and several other Vedic deities are transported by flying wheeled chariots pulled by animals, usually horses.\n\nThe existing Rigveda versions do not mention Vimanas, but verses RV 1.164.47-48 have been taken as evidence for the idea of \"mechanical birds\":\n\nSwami Dayananda Saraswati interpreted these verses to mean:\n\nalthough more likely the 12 fellies are the 12 months in a year, and the 360 spokes are the days (actually 365) in a year.\n\nIn the Ramayana, the \"pushpaka\" (\"flowery\") vimana of Ravana is described as follows:\n\nIt is the first flying vimana mentioned in existing Hindu texts (as distinct from the gods' flying horse-drawn chariots).\nPushpaka was originally made by Vishwakarma for Brahma, the Hindu god of creation; later Brahma gave it to Kubera, the God of wealth; but it was later stolen, along with Lanka, by his half-brother, king Ravana.\n\nVimāna-vāsin ('dweller in vimāna') is a class of deities who served the . These Vaimānika deities dwell in the Ūrdhva Loka heavens.\nAccording to the \"Kalpa Sūtra\" of Bhadra-bāhu, the 24th himself emerged from the great ; whereas the 22nd emerged from the great vimāna Aparijita.\nThe (4th) and Sumati-nātha (5th) both traveled through the sky in the \"Jayanta-vimāna\", namely the great vimāna Sarva-artha-siddhi, which was owned by the Jayanta deities; whereas the (15th) traveled through the sky in the \"Vijaya-vimāna\". A vimāna may be seen in a dream, such as the nalinī-gulma.\n\nThe Vaimānika Shāstra is an early 20th-century Sanskrit text on aeronautics, obtained allegedly by mental channeling, about the construction of \"vimāna\"s, the \"chariots of the Gods\". The existence of the text was revealed in 1952 by G. R. Josyer, according to whom it was written by one Pandit Subbaraya Shastry, who dictated it in 1918–1923. A Hindi translation was published in 1959, the Sanskrit text with an English translation in 1973. It has 3000 shlokas in 8 chapters. Subbaraya Shastry allegedly stated that the content was dictated to him by Maharishi Bharadvaja. A study by aeronautical and mechanical engineering at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore in 1974 concluded that the aircraft described in the text were \"poor concoctions\" and that the author showed a complete lack of understanding of aeronautics.\n\nPushpak Vimana, meaning \"an aeroplane with flowers\", is a mythical aeroplane found in Ayyavazhi mythology. Akilattirattu Ammanai, the religious book of Ayyavazhi, says that the Pushpak Vimana was sent to carry Ayya Vaikundar to Vaikundam.\n\nA similar reference is found in regards of Saint Tukaram, Maharashtra, India. Lord Vishnu was so impressed by the devotion and singing of Saint Tukaram that when his time came, a Pushpak Viman (a heavenly aircraft shaped as an eagle) came to take him to heaven. Though it is believed that every other human being can go to Heaven without body, Saint Tukaram went to heaven with body (Sadeha Swarga Prapti).\n\nVimanas have appeared in books, films, internet and games including:\n\n"}
{"id": "54726560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54726560", "title": "Yemenite silversmithing", "text": "Yemenite silversmithing\n\nJewish silversmiths who hailed from Yemen were highly acclaimed craftsmen who dominated craft production in precious metals in the southern Arabian peninsula, from the 18th through the mid-20th century, a period and region during which Muslims did not engage in this work. These Yemenite silversmiths were noted for their use of fine granulation and filigree, producing such ornaments as women's bracelets, necklaces, finials, etc. that are renowned the world over.\n\nYemenite silversmiths, a trade held almost exclusively by Jews living in the traditional Yemeni society, were active from at least as far back as the mid 1700s. The largest clientele for jewelry made of gold and silver were women, and the amount of jewelry worn was often an indicator of the woman's status. Some Yemenite silversmiths migrated to Israel in the late 1800s, a migration that continued in the early 1900s. In the early 20th-century, the Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design employed many Yemenites in the production of fine silver jewelry.\n\nBetween June 1949 and September 1950, almost the entire Jewish community in Yemen, including nearly every silversmith in the country, migrated to Israel in an airborne mass migration known as Operation Magic Carpet. Muslims appear to have entered silversmithing in the Yemen in the mid-1900s as the Jews departed for Israel. Mass-produced gold and silver jewelry began to be imported into the Yemen in the 1930s, and dominated the market by the end of the 20th century, causing traditional silversmithing to dwindle.\n\nAccording to Mark. S. Wagner, Professor of Arabic literature and Islamic Law at Louisiana State University, it is difficult to clarify precisely how silver- and gold-smithing came to be regarded as occupations that were too impure for Muslims in the Yemen to engage in; jobs that were similarly regarded in traditional Yemeni culture included pottery making, disposing of human waste from latrines, processing the carcasses of dead animals, soap-making, tanning, and making cakes of cow dung for use as fuel. Jewish silversmiths in this region sometimes moonlighted as dentists, since their jewelers pliers could be used to draw teeth.\n\nYemenite silversmiths melted silver coins to produce Janbiya (dagger) hilts, bridal jewelry and other silver objects. The Maria Theresa thaler, minted continuously since 1741, was especially favored for its consistent silver content and fineness, and which currency was widely in use in Yemen owing to the Mocha coffee trade with the French, and a Yemeni request that its produce be paid with thalers.\n\nYemenite silver-work is noted for its intricate use of filigree and fine granulation. Jewelry containing a high silver content was called by local Jews, \"ṭohōr\", or in the Arabic tongue, \"muḫlaṣ\", the intent being to jewelry whose silver content ranged from 85% to 92% (sterling silver), while the rest being copper. The disadvantaged of the cities and in the rural regions, as well as Bedouins, would routinely order jewelry whose silver content was lower, up to 60% silver, the remainder of which being copper and which had the name of \"fuḍah\". A lower quality silver was called \"niṣfī\", a word having the connotation of “half,” implying that it was made half of silver and half of copper.\n\nAmong the variety of jewelry known in Yemen, the \"labbe\" necklace is the most impressive in its complexity. A highly skilled work of Jewish silversmiths, it is a testimony of exquisite craftsmanship, requiring painstaking work and a developed artistic sense, expressed by the harmonious and aesthetic blend of its many parts. The \"labbe\" is a popular piece of jewelry among Jewish and Muslim women alike. In Arabic, the name \"labbe\" indicates the sunken place beneath the Adam's apple on the neck, where it is worn.\n\n\"Labbe\" necklaces made of applied filigree, being open and airy like the interlaced net of a spider’s web, became more popular during the Ottoman conquest of Yemen, in the mid-19th century, and were given the name \"labbat šabek\" in Sana'a, after its technique. Until then, most were prepared by using casting techniques, and embossing and fashioning from solid pieces. Only a few were made from silver. The \"labbe\" is traditionally made from dozens of components arranged in horizontal rows, or storeys (projected lines). The top row forms the base of the necklace, with connecting parts (usually serial pendants) densely strung upon a cotton or silk thread, extending downwards lengthwise, in identical columns and which form the horizontal lines. It consists of one row – or more – of parts, whose shapes are varied: diamond-shaped rhomboids, squares and rectangles, round beads or rosettes. Most contain smooth plates of metal, in circular and diamond-shaped (rhombus) forms, and are studded with jewels called in Arabic \"zihreh\", meaning, pearls, amber, corals and colored glass. The artisans would also lavishly apply decorations made from small, rounded silver granules. Coin pendants are characteristic of the \"labbe\" necklaces worn by villagers. Large \"labbe\" necklaces may have as many as thirty or more rows.\n\nThe components are interconnected by coiled rings in the vertical and horizontal rows. The location of the items in the vertical lines are complementary to each other, as well as uniform along all the vertical lines. In the vertical lines there are four to eight items that are connected one beneath the other by a metal wire in the shape of the figure-eight, called in Arabic \"methamāna\", meaning \"eight.\" For most, the edges of the base end with either triangles or cones. Occasionally, motifs used in its base were also incorporated in the body of the \"labbe\", particularly the rosette, the lozenge and the round bead. \"Labbe\" necklaces worn by Muslim women typically differed from those worn by Jewish women, insofar that they lacked a base. In \"labbe\" necklaces typically worn by Muslim women in central Yemen, they made use of convex components, or motifs that were round and belly-shaped, resembling leaves or barley-grains (Arabic: \"aqrāṭ she‘iriyāt\"). In some places, it was common to attach a piece of woven cloth on the back of the \"labbe\", like the inner lining of garments, to protect the clothes and the embroidery, as well as the skin, from abrasions.\nWhile silver granules can also be made by dropping melted silver into cold water, in Yemen, most silversmiths used a different technique. The silver granules (\"šaḏir\") were prepared from a silver wire cut into small pieces, which were then concealed within ashes that were heated by a flame, during which heating process they obtained their round shape. From them, they prepared \"masbūʻāt\" – the rose-like cluster consisting of seven granules, and \"matisūʻāt\" – the diamond-shaped rhombus consisting of nine granules, the mulberry beads known as \"tūt\" for the choker necklace (\"maʻnaqeh\"), among other things. This process forms granules, or \"droplets\" that are perfectly round. These were soldered onto the piece of jewelry as desired.\n\nSilver wires were made in Yemen by pouring melted silver into a finger-length mold made from special earth and which was shaped like a tube. A substance similar to borax (known as \"tinkar\" in the Yemenite dialect of Arabic - and otherwise known as the \"glue of the silversmith\") was solely used in Yemen for the purpose of soldering in order to bind together two separate silver pieces (especially for applying fine and delicate work, such as granules, to a silver plate). Cadmium was not used in Yemen for this purpose at all. A different substance was used when soldering wires to a silver plate.\n\nIn recent years in Yemen, the silversmith bought all these materials (granules, wires and plates) pre-manufactured.\n\n\nYemenite silver is owned by the Israel Museum, The Walters, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the British Museum.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38097371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38097371", "title": "Zaradust-e Khuragen", "text": "Zaradust-e Khuragen\n\nZaradust-e Khuragen was the leader of a branch of Zoroastrianism called Dorostdini and teacher of Mazdak, leader of Mazdakism. Dorostdini was the roots of Mazdakism Emphasis on the use of wisdom instead of religious laws. He was from Fasa and for many years he lived in the Byzantine Empire.\n"}
{"id": "8637873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8637873", "title": "Śrī Sūkta", "text": "Śrī Sūkta\n\nŚrī Sūkta, also called Śrī Sūktam, is a Sanskrit devotional hymn (set of shlokas / Śloka-s) revering Śrī as Lakṣmī, the Hindu goddess of wealth, prosperity and fertility. Śrī Sūkta is recited, with a strict adherence to the Chandas, to invoke the goddess' blessings. The hymns are found in the Rig Vedic khilanis, which are appendices to the Ṛkveda that probably date to pre-Buddhist times.\n\nThe Śrī Sūkta forms part of the khilanis or appendices to the Ṛkveda. These were late additions to the Ṛkveda, found only in the \"Bāṣkala\" śākhā, and the hymn themselves exist in several strata that differ both in content and period of composition. For instance, according to J. Scheftelowitz, stratum 1 consists of verses 1–19 (with verses 3–12 addressed to the goddess \"Śri\" and 1–2 and 13–17 to Lakṣmī), while the second stratum has verses 16–29 (i.e., the second version deletes verses 16–19 of the first). The third stratum, with verses beginning from number 23, similarly overlaps with the second version.\n\nThe first stratum is the most commonly attested and is usually appended to the Fifth Mandala of Ṛkveda (Rigveda). Most of its verses were probably composed during the period of the Brāhmaṇa, with a few added in the Upaniṣadic times. The second stratum post-dates the first; while the third is attested in a single, more recent, text.\n\nThe goddess \"Śrī\" appears in several earlier vedic hymns, and is the personification of auspicious and royal qualities. Śrī Sūkta is perhaps the first text in which the homology between \"Śrī\" and \"Lakṣmī\" is drawn, and the goddesses are further associated with the god of fire, Agni. Since the later epic period (ca 400 CE), Śrī-Lakṣmī is particularly associated with Viṣṇu as his wife or consort.\n\nThe \"Śrī Sūkta\" describes \"Śrī \" as glorious, ornamented, royal, lustrous as gold, and radiant as fire, moon and the sun. She is addressed as the bestower of fame, bounty and abundance in the form of gold, cattle, horses and food; and entreated to banish her sister \"alakṣmī\" (misfortune), who is associated with need, hunger, thirst and poverty. The hymn also associates \"Śrī\" with (agrarian) fertility and she is described as the mother of \"Kārdama\" (mud), moist, perceptible through odour, dwelling in cowdung and producing abundant harvest.\n\nThe \"Śrī Sūkta\" uses the motifs of lotus (\"padma\" or \"kamala\") and elephant (\"gaja\") – symbols that are consistently linked with the goddess \"Śrī-Lakṣmī\" in later references. The lotus is thought to be symbolic of purity, beauty, spiritual power, life, fertility, growth or, in Tantra, the entire created universe. It is a recurring motif in Hindu (as well as Buddhist and Jain) literature and a lotus growing from Viṣṇu's navel is said to mark the beginning of a new cosmic creation. The elephants are symbolic of royalty and, in Hindu mythology, are also related with cloud and rain; they thus reinforce \"Śrī-Lakṣmī\"'s stature as the goddess of abundance and fertility.\n\nLater Hindu iconography often represents \"Śrī-Lakṣmī\" in the form of \"Gaja-Lakṣmī\", standing on a lotus, flanked by two elephants that are shown showering her with water with their trunks.\n\nThe Śrī Sūktam assumes specific significance because of Śrī Mahālakṣmī's presence on Lord Śrī Venkaṭeśvara, at Tirumala, or Viṣṇu's chest, at the Heart. Lakṣmi is the embodiment of Love, from which devotion to God or Bhakti flows. It is through Love/Bhakti or Lakṣmī that the Ātmā or soul is able to reach God or Viṣṇu.\n\nŚrī or Lakṣmī is also the personification of the spiritual energy within us and universe called kuṇḍalinī. Also, She embodies the Spiritual World or Vaikuṇtha; the abode of Lakṣmī-Nārāyaṇa or Viṣṇu, not to be confused with Heaven, as The Heavenly Planets are still part of the Material Universe. Vaikuṇtha-Dham is purely spiritual, eternal and self illuminating. She is also supposed to have the Divine qualities of God and the soul. Lakshmi is God's superior spiritual feminine energy or the Param Prākṛti, which purifies, empowers and uplifts the individual. Hence, She is called the Goddess of Fortune.\n\nThe Śrī Sūkta is one of the Pañca-Sūktam (5 Suktams) recited during the 3-hour long Thirumanjanam of Venkateswara, at the famed ancient Hill Shrine of the Tirumala Venkateswara Temple in Andhra Pradesh, India. The \"Thirumanjanam\" to the main deity is performed every Friday.\nŚrī Sūktam is also recited during the daily Arjitha Vasanthotsavam \"seva\".\n\n\n"}
