{"id": "54946221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54946221", "title": "Agape Lodge", "text": "Agape Lodge\n\nThe Agape Lodge was a California-based chapter of the Ordo Templi Orientis founded in 1935 by Wilfred Talbot Smith. Following World War II, it was the sole surviving O.T.O. organization.\n\nIn 1942, jet fuel engineer Jack Parsons was appointed head of the lodge, and the organization was headquartered out of Parson's mansion in Pasadena. In 1946, Parsons lost a great deal of money in a business venture with L. Ron Hubbard and Sarah Northrup, resulting in him selling the mansion. In 1949, the Agape Lodge ceased to hold regular meetings. \n\nThe original O.T.O. was founded by the wealthy German industrialist Carl Kellner. After Kellner's death in 1905, Theodor Reuss became Outer Head of the Order. After Reuss's death in 1923, Aleister Crowley was elected Head of the Order in 1925.\n\nIn 1915, the lesser-known Agapé Lodge No. 1 of Vancouver, B.C. had been established.\n\nIn 1935, Wilfred Talbot Smith founded the Agape Lodge No. 2, based at his Hollywood home, and brought in seven initiates to the Minerval level in September 1935. Smith advertised the foundation of his group through an advert in \"American Astrology\" magazine and printed a pamphlet explaining what the O.T.O. was. The Agape Lodge held regular meetings, lectures, and study classes, as well as social events and a weekly Gnostic Mass open to the public. \n\nIn February 1936, the lodge held a Mass in honour of New Thought leader Wayne Walker who ran a group called \"The Voice of Healing\"; The Agape Lodge members hoped to attract Walker and his supporters to Thelema, but they were put off by the Lodge's sexual openness. Later in 1936, Smith and Jacobi's employer, the Southern California Gas Company, discovered their involvement in the Lodge, demoting Smith to bookkeeper and firing Jacobi. Angered, Jacobi left the Lodge altogether, while Smith shut down the group's private ritual activities for the next three years. As a result, the public attendance of the Gnostic Mass plummeted.\n\nIn 1939, the group initiated Jack Parsons, a jet fuel engineer, and his wife Helen Parsons, who had become interested in the O.T.O. through attending the Gnostic Mass. Smith wrote to Crowley that Parsons was \"a really excellent man ... He has an excellent mind and much better intellect than myself ... JP is going to be very valuable\". The Parsons would help bring new members into the group; Grady McMurtry and his fiancee Claire Palmer, and Helen's sister Sara Northrup. \n\nIn February 1939 a young college student who had attended the mass, Ayna Sosoyena, was murdered; although police drew no connection to the Lodge, sensationalist local tabloids connected the two, although were unaware that the Lodge was involved with Crowley or Thelema. A sympathetic local radio reporter allowed Smith to explain the purpose of the Mass to allay fears of the group, but the interview was never aired in an agreement with local press that they would drop the story.\n\nCrowley appointed Karl Germer, a German Thelemite recently arrived in the US, to be his representative on the continent, and instructed Germer to oversee the payment of dues to himself. He also specified that it would now be Germer, and not Smith, who was his chosen successor. \n\nKahl, who worked as a drama teacher, brought three of her interested students into the group, among them Phyllis Seckler, and other individuals also joined the group, among them Louis T. Culling and Roy Leffingwell. \n\nThe Lodge again ceased its private activities from March 1940 to March 1941. \n\nSarah Northrup joined the O.T.O. in 1941, at Parsons' urging, and was given the title of Soror [Sister] Cassap. She soon rose to the rank of a second degree member, or \"Magician\", of the O.T.O.\n\nIn June 1941, at the age of seventeen, Northrup began a passionate affair with Parsons while her sister Helen was away on vacation. She made a striking impression on the other lodgers; \n\nWhen Helen returned, she found Northrup wearing Helen's own clothes and calling herself Parsons' \"new wife.\" Such conduct was expressly permitted by the O.T.O., which followed Crowley's disdain of marriage as a \"detestable institution\" and accepted as commonplace the swapping of wives and partners between O.T.O. members.\n\nAlthough both were committed O.T.O. members, Northrup's usurpation of Helen's role led to conflict between the two sisters. The reactions of Parsons and Helen towards Northrup were markedly different. Parsons told Helen to her face that he preferred Northrup sexually: \"This is a fact that I can do nothing about. I am better suited to her temperamentally – we get on well. Your character is superior. You are a greater person. I doubt that she would face what you have with me – or support me as well.\" Some years later, addressing himself as \"You\", Parsons told himself that his affair with Northrup (whom he called Betty) marked a key step in his growth as a practitioner of magick: \"Betty served to affect a transference from Helen at a critical period ... Your passion for Betty also gave you the magical force needed at the time, and the act of adultery tinged with incest, served as your magical confirmation in the law of Thelema.\" Conflicted in her feelings, Helen sought comfort in Smith and began a relationship with him that lasted for the rest of his life; the four remained friends. \n\nNorthrup's hostility towards other members of the O.T.O. caused further tensions in the house, which Aleister Crowley heard about from communications from her housemates. He dubbed her \"the alley-cat\" after an unnamed mutual acquaintance told him that Parsons's attraction to her was like \"a yellow pup bumming around with his snout glued to the rump of an alley-cat.\" Concluding that she was a vampire, which he defined as \"an elemental or demon in the form of a woman\" who sought to \"lure the Candidate to his destruction,\" he warned that Northrup was a grave danger to Parsons and to the \"Great Work\" which the O.T.O. was carrying out in California.\n\nSimilar concerns were expressed by other O.T.O. members. The O.T.O.'s US head, Karl Germer, labeled her \"an ordeal sent by the gods\". Her disruptive behavior appalled Fred Gwynn, a new O.T.O. member living in the commune at 1003 South Orange Avenue: \"Betty went to almost fantastical lengths to disrupt the meetings [of the O.T.O.] that Jack did get together. If she could not break it up by making social engagements with key personnel she, and her gang, would go out to a bar and keep calling in asking for certain people to come to the telephone.\"\n\nIn June 1942, a number of other Thelemites moved to 1003 South Orange Grove Avenue, an American Craftsman-style mansion. They all contributed to the rent of $100 a month and lived communally in what replaced Winona Boulevard as the new base of the Agape Lodge, maintaining an allotment and slaughtering their own livestock for meat as well as blood rituals. Parsons decorated his new room with a copy of the Stele of Revealing, a statue of Pan, and his collection of swords and daggers. He converted the garage and laundry room into a chemical laboratory and often held science fiction discussion meetings in the kitchen, and entertained the children with hunts for fairies in the 25-acre garden.\n\nParsons attracted controversy in Pasadena for his preferred clientele. Parsonage resident Alva Rogers recalled in a 1962 article for an occultist fanzine: \"In the ads placed in the local paper Jack specified that only bohemians, artists, musicians, atheists, anarchists, or any other exotic types need to apply for rooms—any mundane soul would be unceremoniously rejected\".\n\nSome veteran Lodge members disliked Parsons' influence, concerned that it encouraged excessive sexual polyandry that was religiously detrimental, but his charismatic orations at Lodge meetings assured his popularity among the majority of followers. Parsons soon created the Thelemite journal \"Oriflamme\", in which he published his own poetry, but Crowley was unimpressedparticularly due to Parsons' descriptions of drug useand the project was soon shelved. \n\nAlthough there were arguments among the commune members, Parsons remained dedicated to Thelema. He gave almost all of his salary to the O.T.O. while actively seeking out new membersincluding Formanand financially supported Crowley in London through Germer. Parsons had begun a relationship with Sara Northrup, while Smith consoled Helen, who would become his partner for the rest of his life; nevertheless the four remained friends. Although they had ceased to publicly perform the Gnostic Mass, membership of the lodge continued to grow.\n\nA number of prominent members however left, among them Regina Kahl and Phyllis Seckler.\n\nAgape Lodge soon came under investigation by both the Pasadena Police Department and the FBI. Both had received allegations of a \"black magic cult\" involved in sexual orgies; one complainant was a 16-year-old boy who said that he was raped by lodge members, while neighbors reported a ritual involving a naked pregnant woman jumping through fire. Karl Germer, now leader of the North American O.T.O., was German. Neither agency found evidence of illegal activity and came to the conclusion that the Lodge constituted no threat to national security.\n\nCrowley however had remained highly critical of Smith's leadership of the lodge, and ordered Wolfe to send him on a personal magical retreat; she felt conflicted, but eventually conceded to Crowley's demands. Both Crowley and Germer wanted to see Smith ousted permanently, believing that he had become a bad influence on the other lodge members; many of the members, including Jack and Helen Parsons, wrote to them to defend their mentor, but Germer nevertheless ordered him to stand down, with Parsons appointed head of the lodge. \n\nIn New York Jack Parsons met with Karl Germer, the head of the O.T.O. in North America.\n\nIn December 1941, Smith announced a policy that all Lodge members now had to contribute 5% of their earnings as an \"Emergency Fee\" that went to Crowley. \n\nIn when, Smith suffered a mild heart attack. Smith retired at the age of 56 before undergoing an operation in February 1942.\n\nHaving been a long-term heavy user of alcohol and marijuana, Parsons now habitually used cocaine, amphetamines, peyote, mescaline, and opiates as well. Parson continued to have sexual relations with multiple women, including McMurtry's fiancee Claire. When Parsons paid for her to have an abortion, McMurtry was angered and their friendship broke down.\n\nRefusing to take orders from Germer any more, Smith resigned from the O.T.O., while Parsons – who remained sympathetic and friendly to Smith during the conflict – ceased lodge activities and resigned as its head. In a letter informing Crowley of this decision, Smith remarked \"Would to God you knew your people better.\" \n\nGermer subsequently appointed Max Schneider head of the Agape Lodge, which remained inactive, while Crowley, Germer, and Schneider began spreading lies about Smith, including that he was responsible for raping initiates, claims that were denied by many Lodge members.\n\nIn April, Helen gave birth to Smith's son, who was named Kwan Lanval Parsons. In May, Smith and Helen left for a two-room cabin in Rainbow Valley with their baby, where Smith undertook his magical retirement. Back in England, Crowley undertook an astrological analysis of Smith's birth chart, and came to the conclusion that he was the incarnation of a god, greatly altering his estimation of him; Smith however remained sceptical. \n\nHelen was far less sanguine, writing in her diary of \"the sore spot I carried where my heart should be\", and had furious – sometimes violent – rows with both Parsons and Northrup. She began an affair with Wilfred Smith, Parsons' mentor in the O.T.O. and had a son in 1943 who bore Parsons' surname but who was almost certainly fathered by Smith. Northrup also became pregnant but had an abortion on April 1, 1943, arranged by Parsons and carried out by Dr. Zachary Taylor Malaby, a prominent Pasadena doctor and Democratic politician.\n\nParsons continued to financially support Smith and Helen, although he asked for a divorce from her and ignored Crowley's commands by welcoming Smith back to the Parsonage when his retreat was finished.\n\nAround August 1945, L. Ron Hubbard visited 1003 South Orange Avenue at the behest of Lou Goldstone, a well-known science fiction illustrator who resided there.\n\nParsons took an immediate liking to Hubbard and invited him to stay in the house. Parsons wrote to Crowley that although Hubbard had \"no formal training in Magick he has an extraordinary amount of experience and understanding in the field. From some of his experiences I deduce he is direct touch with some higher intelligence, possibly his Guardian Angel. ... He is the most Thelemic person I have ever met and is in complete accord with our own principles.\"\n\nHubbard became Parsons' \"magical partner\" for a sex magic ritual involving that was intended to summon an incarnation of a goddess.\n\nHubbard soon began \"affairs with one girl after another in the house.\" Ultimately, Nortrup became enamored with Hubbard. Hubbard and Northrup made no secret of their relationship; another lodger at Parsons' house described how he saw Hubbard \"living off Parsons' largesse and making out with his girlfriend right in front of him. Sometimes when the two of them were sitting at the table together, the hostility was almost tangible.\" \nParsons, despite attempting to repress his passions, became intensely jealous. Parsons was deeply dismayed but tried to put a brave face on the situation, informing Aleister Crowley:\n\nInspired by Crowley's novel \"Moonchild\" (1917), Parsons and Hubbard aimed to magically fertilize a \"magical child\" through immaculate conception, which when born to a woman somewhere on Earth nine months following the working's completion would become the Thelemic messiah embodying Babalon. To quote Metzger, the purpose of the Babalon Working was \"a daring attempt to shatter the boundaries of space and time\" facilitating, according to Parsons, the emergence of Thelema's Æon of Horus. Crowley was bewildered and concerned by the endeavor, complaining to Germer of being \"fairly frantic when I contemplate the idiocy of these louts!\"\n\nMotivated to find a new partner through occult means, Parsons began to devote his energies to conducting black magic, causing concern among fellow O.T.O. members who believed that it was invoking troublesome spirits into the Parsonage; Jane Wolfe wrote to Crowley that \"our own Jack is enamored with Witchcraft, the houmfort, voodoo. From the start he always wanted to evoke something—no matter what, I am inclined to think, as long as he got a result.\" He told the residents that he was imbuing statues in the house with a magical energy in order to sell them to fellow occultists. One ritual allegedly brought screaming banshees to the windows of the Parsonage, an incident that disturbed Forman for the rest of his life. Parsons reported paranormal events in the house resulting from the rituals; including poltergeist activity, sightings of orbs and ghostly apparitions, alchemical (sylphic) effect on the weather, and disembodied voices. One modern scholar speculates that the voices were a prank by Hubbard and Sara. \n\nIn December 1945 Parsons began a series of rituals based on Enochian magic during which he masturbated onto magical tablets, accompanied by Sergei Prokofiev's Second Violin Concerto. Describing this magical operation as the Babalon Working, he hoped to bring about the incarnation of Thelemite goddess Babalon onto Earth. He allowed Hubbard to take part as his \"scribe\", believing that he was particularly sensitive to detecting magical phenomena. As described by Richard Metzger, \"Parsons jerked off in the name of spiritual advancement\" while Hubbard \"scanned the astral plane for signs and visions.\"\nHubbard, Northrup and Parsons agreed at the start of 1946 that they would go into business together, buying yachts on the East Coast and sailing them to California to sell at a profit. They set up a business partnership on January 15, 1946 under the name of \"Allied Enterprises\", with Parsons putting up $20,000 of capital, Hubbard adding $1,200 and Northrup contributing nothing.\n\nWhen Cameron departed for a trip to New York, Parsons retreated to the desert, where he believed that a preternatural entity psychographically provided him with \"Liber 49\", which represented a fourth part of Crowley's \"The Book of the Law\", the primary sacred text of Thelema, as well as part of a new sacred text he called the \"Book of Babalon\". \n\nTheir final ritual took place in the Mojave Desert in late February 1946, during which Parsons abruptly decided that his undertaking was complete. On returning to the Parsonage he discovered that a woman named Marjorie Cameron—an unemployed illustrator and former Navy WAVE—had come to visit. Believing her to be the \"elemental\" woman and manifestation of Babalon that he had invoked, in early March Parsons began performing sex magic rituals with Cameron, who acted as his \"Scarlet Woman\", while Hubbard continued to participate as the amanuensis. Unlike the rest of the household, Cameron knew nothing at first of Parsons' magical intentions: \"I didn't know anything about the O.T.O., I didn't know that they had invoked me, I didn't know anything, but the whole house knew it. Everybody was watching to see what was going on.\" Despite this ignorance and her skepticism about Parsons' magic, Cameron reported her sighting of a UFO to Parsons, who secretly recorded the sighting as a materialization of Babalon. \n\nIn April 1946, Hubbard and Northrup left for Florida, taking with him $10,000 drawn from the Allied Enterprises account to fund the purchase of the partnership's first yacht. Weeks passed without word from Hubbard. Louis Culling, another O.T.O. member, wrote to Karl Germer to explain the situation:\n\nCrowley wrote to opine: \"It seems to me on the information of our brethren in California that Parsons has got an illumination in which he has lost all his personal independence. From our brother's account he has given away both his girl and his money. Apparently it is the ordinary confidence trick.\" \n\nLeft \"flat broke\" by this defrauding, Parsons was incensed when he discovered that Hubbard and Sara had left for Miami with $10,000 of the money; he suspected a scam but was placated by a telephone call from Hubbard and agreed to remain business partners. When Crowley, in a telegram to Germer, dismissed Parsons as a \"weak fool\" and victim to Hubbard and Sara's obvious confidence trick, Parsons changed his mind, flew to Miami and placed a temporary injunction and restraining order on them. Upon tracking them down to a harbor in County Causeway, Parsons discovered that the couple had purchased three yachts as planned; they tried to flee aboard one but hit a squall and were forced to return to port. Parsons was convinced that he had brought them to shore through a lesser banishing ritual of the pentagram containing an astrological, geomantic invocation of Bartzabela vengeful spirit of Mars. Parsons initially attempted to obtain redress through magical means, carrying out a \"Banishing Ritual of the Pentagram\" to curse Hubbard and Northrup. He credited it with causing the couple to abort an attempt to evade him:\n\nParsons subsequently resorted to more conventional means of obtaining redress and sued the couple on July 1 in the Circuit Court for Dade County. His lawsuit accused Hubbard and Northrup of breaking the terms of their partnership, dissipating the assets and attempting to abscond. The case was settled out of court eleven days later, with Hubbard and Northrup agreeing to refund some of Parsons' money while keeping a yacht, the \"Harpoon\", for themselves.\n\nNorthrup was able to dissuade Parsons from pressing his case by threatening to expose their past relationship, which had begun when she was under the legal age of consent. Hubbard's relationship with Northrup, while legal, had already caused alarm among those who knew him; Virginia Heinlein, the wife of the science fiction writer Robert Heinlein, regarded Hubbard as \"a very sad case of post-war breakdown\" and Northrup as his \"latest Man-Eating Tigress\".\n\nParsons was ultimately compensated with only $2,900. Hubbard, already married to Margaret Grubb, bigamously married Sara and went on to found Dianetics and Scientology.\n\nParsons sold the Parsonage to developers for $25,000 under the condition that he and Cameron could continue to live in the coach house. Parsons appointed Roy Leffingwell to head the Agape Lodge, which would now have to meet elsewhere for its rituals. Agapé Lodge continued in Southern California until 1949, after which the Lodge ceased to hold regular meetings. \n\nIn addition to earlier members, a document entitled \"O.T.O. Degree Work 1938-43\" lists the names and initiation dates of 57 initiates.\n\nParsons also rented rooms at the 1003 S. Orange Grove Avenue house to non-Thelemites, including journalist Nieson Himmel, Manhattan Project physicist Robert Cornog, and science fiction artist Louis Goldstone.\n\n"}
{"id": "4761837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4761837", "title": "Anand Karaj", "text": "Anand Karaj\n\nAnand Karaj () is the Sikh marriage ceremony, meaning \"Blissful Union\" or \"Joyful Union\", that was introduced by Guru Amar Das. The four \"laavaan\" (hymns which take place during the ceremony) were composed by his successor, Guru Ram Das. It was originally legalised in India through the passage of the Anand Marriage Act of 1909, but is now governed by the Sikh Reht Maryada (Sikh code of conduct and conventions) that was issued by the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC). \n\nIn a recent verdict of the Sri Akal Takht Sahib, i.e. a, Anand Karaj can only take place in a Gurudwara (temple). Any Amritdhari (baptized) Sikh may perform the marriage ceremony.\n\nIn 2012, India passed The Anand Marriage (Amendment) Bill, after which Sikhs are able to register their marriages under the Anand Marriage Act instead of the Hindu Marriage Act, with President Pratibha Patil giving her assent to a bill passed by Parliament on 7 June 2012 in the budget session.\n\nPakistan declared that it would pass the Sikh Anand Marriage Act in 2007 and a Draft was prepared, but this Draft Act was never passed. In 2018, Pakistani's Punjab Provincial Assembly passed the Punjab Sikh Anand Karaj Marriage Act 2018.\n\nThe following are other important points that must be adhered to by the Sikh couple and their families:\n\n\nThe Anand Karaj ceremony is a joyous and festive event in which families and friends from both sides are heavily involved. Most Sikh weddings take place in the morning and are completed before noon. Following the ceremony is a langar or a formal lunch. The wedding event can last for the whole day and may spill into the next day. \n\nMost families combine the wedding ceremony with the engagement ceremony called the \"kurmai\", which is held just before the wedding vows or laavan. The engagement ceremony can also be held as a separate event on a different day. It is usually conducted in the gurdwara or at the home of the groom-to-be. It involves ardas, kirtan, sagun (exchange of gifts) and langar. In the \"sagan\" ceremony, the groom is presented with a karar, kirrpan, Indian sweets, fresh fruits, dried fruits and nuts. The bride-to-be's family in turn are presented with garments and sweets. \n\n\"Anand Karaj\", literally, \"joyful ceremonial occasion or proceedings\" is the name given to the Sikh marriage ceremony. For Sikhs, married status is the norm and the ideal; through it, according to their belief, come the best opportunities for serving God's purpose and the well being of humanity, and it affords the best means of fulfillment of individuality and attainment of bliss. Sikhism does not repudiate vows of celibacy, renunciation or the sannyasin state, but it does discourage it and advocates marital life as the best way of living.\n\nHistorically, most marriages among Sikhs, as also in India and Pakistan as a whole, have been arranged. It is regarded as a duty for the parents to arrange for, and actively contribute towards, the marriage of their offspring. Prem Sumarag, an eighteenth-century work on the Sikh social code, lays down: When a girl attains maturity, it is incumbent upon her parents to look for a suitable match for her. It is neither desirable nor proper to marry a young girl. The daughter of a Sikh should be given in marriage to a Sikh. If a man is a believer in Sikhism, is humble by nature, and earns by honest means, with him matrimony may be contracted without a question and without consideration for wealth and riches.\n\nToday, it is accepted that Sikhs marry someone they choose themselves. To show respect to their parents, seeking their approval is common. Traditionally, the parents of the man ask the parents of the woman for their daughter's hand in marriage.\n\nThe history of the Anand marriage ceremony is traced back to the time of Guru Amar Das (1479–1574), who composed the long 40-stanza hymn \"Anand\", in the Ramkali measure, suitable to be sung or recited on all occasions of religious importance. His successor, Guru Ram Das, composed a four-stanza hymn, \"Lavan\", which is recited and sung to solemnize nuptials. During the time of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and his successors, however, this ceremony fell into partial disuse under the renewed Brahmanical influence at court as well as in society. \n\nThe Namdhari reform movement of the mid-19th century made the practice of Anand ceremony a vital plank in its programme as did the later, more widely influential Singh Sabha. But there was opposition from the Arya Samajis and priestly classes; the former due to their position that Sikh faith was a sect within the larger umbrella of Hinduism and hence subject to Hindu Marriage Act. The Sikh form of wedding ceremonial eventually received legal sanction through the Anand Marriage Act which was adopted in 1909. \n\nThe core of the Anand Karaj (the 'blissful ceremony') is the 'lavan', wherein shabads are sung with the bride and groom circumambulating the Guru Granth Sahib. The ceremony serves to provide the foundational principles towards a successful marriage and also places the marriage within the context of unity with God. Guru Ram Das Ji composed the four stanzas of Lavan to be sung and recited as the core of the Anand Karaj. \n\nIn 1579, the fifth Guru, Guru Arjan Sahib Ji and Mata Ganga were the first couple to be married through the Anand Karaj ceremony.\n\nThe ceremony is now universally observed by the Sikhs.\n\nThe Assent of the President of India was received to the Anand Marriage Amendment Act 2012 on 7th June 2012. The Act paved the way for the validation of Sikh traditional marriages, amending the Anand Marriage Act of 1909, thus providing for compulsory registration of \"Anand Karaj\" marriages.\n\nIn 2018, Pakistani's Punjab Provincial Assembly passed the Punjab Sikh Anand Karaj Marriage Act 2018.\n\nIn 2014 the Sikh Council in UK developed a consistent approach towards marriages in Gurdwaras where one partner is not of Sikh origin, following a two-year consultation with Gurdwara Sahib Committees, Sikh Organisations and individuals. The resulting guidelines were approved by the General Assembly of Sikh Council UK on 11 October 2014, and state that Gurdwaras are encouraged to ensure that both parties to an Anand Karaj wedding are Sikhs, but that where a couple chooses to undertake a civil marriage they should be offered the opportunity to hold an \"Ardas\", \"Sukhmani Sahib Path\", \"Akhand Path\", or other service to celebrate their marriage in the presence of family and friends. Some gurdwaras permit mixed marriages, which has led to controversy.\n\nSikhs practise monogamy in marriage. Husband and wife are seen as being equal. Any Sikh widow or widower is allowed to marry another person (this also includes divorcees).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "274099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274099", "title": "Ancient Greek religion", "text": "Ancient Greek religion\n\nAncient Greek religion encompasses the collection of beliefs, rituals, and mythology originating in ancient Greece in the form of both popular public religion and cult practices. These groups varied enough for it to be possible to speak of Greek religions or \"cults\" in the plural, though most of them shared similarities.\n\nMost ancient Greeks recognized the twelve major Olympian gods and goddesses: (Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Demeter, Athena, Ares, Aphrodite, Apollo, Artemis, Hephaestus, Hermes, and either Hestia or Dionysus), although philosophies such as Stoicism and some forms of Platonism used language that seems to assume a single transcendent deity. The worship of these deities, and several others, was found across the Greek world, though they often have different epithets that distinguished aspects of the deity, and often reflect the absorption of other local deities into the pan-Hellenic scheme.\n\nThe religious practices of the Greeks extended beyond mainland Greece, to the islands and coasts of Ionia in Asia Minor, to Magna Graecia (Sicily and southern Italy), and to scattered Greek colonies in the Western Mediterranean, such as Massalia (Marseille). Early Italian religions such as the Etruscan were influenced by Greek religion in forming much of the ancient Roman religion.\n\nWhile there were few concepts universal to all the Greek peoples, there were common beliefs shared by many.\n\nAncient Greek theology was polytheistic, based on the assumption that there were many gods and goddesses, as well as a range of lesser supernatural beings of various types. There was a hierarchy of deities, with Zeus, the king of the gods, having a level of control over all the others, although he was not almighty. Some deities had dominion over certain aspects of nature. For instance, Zeus was the sky-god, sending thunder and lightning, Poseidon ruled over the sea and earthquakes, Hades projected his remarkable power throughout the realms of death and the Underworld, and Helios controlled the sun. Other deities ruled over abstract concepts; for instance Aphrodite controlled love. All significant deities were visualized as \"human\" in form, although often able to transform themselves into animals or natural phenomena.\n\nWhile being immortal, the gods were certainly not all-good or even all-powerful. They had to obey fate, known to Greek mythology as the Moirai, which overrode any of their divine powers or wills. For instance, in mythology, it was Odysseus' fate to return home to Ithaca after the Trojan War, and the gods could only lengthen his journey and make it harder for him, but they could not stop him.\nThe gods acted like humans and had human vices. They would interact with humans, sometimes even spawning children with them. At times certain gods would be opposed to others, and they would try to outdo each other. In the \"Iliad\", Aphrodite, Ares and Apollo support the Trojan side in the Trojan War, while Hera, Athena and Poseidon support the Greeks (see theomachy).\n\nSome gods were specifically associated with a certain city. Athena was associated with the city of Athens, Apollo with Delphi and Delos, Zeus with Olympia and Aphrodite with Corinth. But other gods were also worshipped in these cities. Other deities were associated with nations outside of Greece; Poseidon was associated with Ethiopia and Troy, and Ares with Thrace.\n\nIdentity of names was not a guarantee of a similar cultus; the Greeks themselves were well aware that the Artemis worshipped at Sparta, the virgin huntress, was a very different deity from the Artemis who was a many-breasted fertility goddess at Ephesus. Though the worship of the major deities spread from one locality to another, and though most larger cities boasted temples to several major gods, the identification of different gods with different places remained strong to the end.\n\nThe Greeks believed in an underworld where the spirits of the dead went after death. One of the most widespread areas of this underworld was ruled over by Hades, a brother of Zeus, and was known as Hades (originally called 'the place of Hades'). Other well known realms are Tartarus, a place of torment for the damned, and Elysium, a place of pleasures for the virtuous. In the early Mycenean religion all the dead went to Hades, but the rise of mystery cults in the Archaic age led to the development of places such as Tartarus and Elysium.\n\nA few Greeks, like Achilles, Alcmene, Amphiaraus Ganymede, Ino, Melicertes, Menelaus, Peleus, and a great number of those who fought in the Trojan and Theban wars, were considered to have been physically immortalized and brought to live forever in either Elysium, the Islands of the Blessed, heaven, the ocean, or beneath the ground. Such beliefs are found in the most ancient of Greek sources, such as Homer and Hesiod. This belief remained strong even into the Christian era. For most people at the moment of death there was, however, no hope of anything but continued existence as a disembodied soul.\n\nSome Greeks, such as the philosophers Pythagoras and Plato, also embraced the idea of reincarnation, though this was only accepted by a few. Epicurus taught that the soul was simply atoms which dissolved at death, so there was no existence after death.\n\nGreek religion had an extensive mythology. It consisted largely of stories of the gods and how they interacted with humans. Myths often revolved around heroes and their actions, such as Heracles and his twelve labors, Odysseus and his voyage home, Jason and the quest for the Golden Fleece and Theseus and the Minotaur.\n\nMany species existed in Greek mythology. Chief among these were the gods and humans, though the Titans (who predated the Olympian gods) also frequently appeared in Greek myths. Lesser species included the half-man-half-horse centaurs, the nature based nymphs (tree nymphs were dryads, sea nymphs were Nereids) and the half man, half goat satyrs. Some creatures in Greek mythology were monstrous, such as the one-eyed giant Cyclopes, the sea beast Scylla, whirlpool Charybdis, Gorgons, and the half-man, half-bull Minotaur.\n\nThere was not a set Greek cosmogony, or creation myth. Different religious groups believed that the world had been created in different ways. One Greek creation myth was told in Hesiod's \"Theogony\". It stated that at first there was only a primordial deity called Chaos, who gave birth to various other primordial gods, such as Gaia, Tartarus and Eros, who then gave birth to more gods, the Titans, who then gave birth to the first Olympians.\n\nThe mythology largely survived and was added to in order to form the later Roman mythology. The Greeks and Romans had been literate societies, and much mythology, although initially shared orally, was written down in the forms of epic poetry (such as the \"Iliad\", the \"Odyssey\" and the \"Argonautica\") and plays (such as Euripides' \"The Bacchae\" and Aristophanes' \"The Frogs\"). The mythology became popular in Christian post-Renaissance Europe, where it was often used as a basis for the works of artists like Botticelli, Michelangelo and Rubens.\nOne of the most important moral concepts to the Greeks was the fear of committing hubris. Hubris constituted many things, from rape to desecration of a corpse, and was a crime in the city-state of Athens. Although pride and vanity were not considered sins themselves, the Greeks emphasized moderation. Pride only became hubris when it went to extremes, like any other vice. The same was thought of eating and drinking. Anything done to excess was not considered proper. Ancient Greeks placed, for example, importance on athletics and intellect equally. In fact many of their competitions included both. Pride was not evil until it became all-consuming or hurtful to others.\n\nThe Greeks had no religious texts they regarded as \"revealed\" scriptures of sacred origin, but very old texts including Homer's \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\", and the Homeric hymns (regarded as later productions today), Hesiod's \"Theogony\" and \"Works and Days\", and Pindar's Odes were regarded as having authority and perhaps being inspired; they usually begin with an invocation to the Muses for inspiration. Plato even wanted to exclude the myths from his ideal state described in the \"Republic\" because of their low moral tone.\n\nWhile some traditions, such as Mystery cults, did uphold certain texts as canonic within their own cult praxis, such texts were respected but not necessarily accepted as canonic outside their circle. In this field, of particular importance are certain texts referring to Orphic cults: multiple copies, ranging from 450 BC to 250 AD, have been found in various locations of the Greek world. Even the words of the oracles never turned into a sacred text. Other texts were specially composed for religious events, and some have survived within the lyric tradition; although they had a cult function, they were bound to performance and never developed into a common, standard prayer form comparable to the Christian Pater Noster. An exception to this rule were the already named Orphic and Mystery rituals, which, in this, set themselves aside from the rest of the Greek religious system. Finally, some texts called \"hieroi logoi\" () (sacred texts) by the ancient sources, originated from outside the Greek world, or were supposedly adopted in remote times, representing yet more different traditions within the Greek belief system.\n\nThe lack of a unified priestly class meant that a unified, canonic form of the religious texts or practices never existed; just as there was no unified, common sacred text for the Greek belief system, there was no standardization of practices. Instead, religious practices were organized on local levels, with priests normally being magistrates for the city or village, or gaining authority from one of the many sanctuaries. Some priestly functions, like the care for a particular local festival, could be given by tradition to a certain family. To a large extent, in the absence of \"scriptural\" sacred texts, religious practices derived their authority from tradition, and \"every omission or deviation arouses deep anxiety and calls forth sanctions\".\n\nGreek ceremonies and rituals were mainly performed at altars. These were typically devoted to one or a few gods, and supported a statue of the particular deity. Votive deposits would be left at the altar, such as food, drinks, as well as precious objects. Sometimes animal sacrifices would be performed here, with most of the flesh eaten, and the offal burnt as an offering to the gods. Libations, often of wine, would be offered to the gods as well, not only at shrines, but also in everyday life, such as during a symposium.\n\nOne ceremony was pharmakos, a ritual involving expelling a symbolic scapegoat such as a slave or an animal, from a city or village in a time of hardship. It was hoped that by casting out the ritual scapegoat, the hardship would go with it.\n\nWorship in Greece typically consisted of sacrificing domestic animals at the altar with hymn and prayer. The altar was outside any temple building, and might not be associated with a temple at all. The animal, which should be perfect of its kind, is decorated with garlands and the like, and led in procession to the altar, a girl with a basket on her head containing the concealed knife leading the way. After various rituals the animal is slaughtered over the altar, as it falls all the women present \"must cry out in high, shrill tones\". Its blood is collected and poured over the altar. It is butchered on the spot and various internal organs, bones and other inedible parts burnt as the deity's portion of the offering, while the meat is removed to be prepared for the participants to eat; the leading figures tasting it on the spot. The temple usually kept the skin, to sell to tanners. That the humans got more use from the sacrifice than the deity had not escaped the Greeks, and is often the subject of humour in Greek comedy.\n\nThe animals used are, in order of preference, bull or ox, cow, sheep (the most common), goat, pig (with piglet the cheapest mammal), and poultry (but rarely other birds or fish). Horses and asses are seen on some vases in the Geometric style (900-750 BC), but are very rarely mentioned in literature; they were relatively late introductions to Greece, and it has been suggested that Greek preferences in this matter go very far back. The Greeks liked to believe that the animal was glad to be sacrificed, and interpreted various behaviours as showing this. Divination by examining parts of the sacrificed animal was much less important than in Roman or Etruscan religion, or Near Eastern religions, but was practiced, especially of the liver, and as part of the cult of Apollo. Generally, the Greeks put more faith in observing the behaviour of birds. \n\nFor a smaller and simpler offering, a grain of incense could be thrown on the sacred fire, and outside the cities farmers made simple sacrificial gifts of plant produce as the \"first fruits\" were harvested. The libation, a ritual pouring of fluid, was part of everyday life, and libations with a prayer were often made at home whenever wine was drunk, with just a part of the cup's contents, the rest being drunk. More formal ones might be made onto altars at temples, and other fluids such as olive oil and honey might be used. Although the grand form of sacrifice called the hecatomb (meaning 100 bulls) might in practice only involve a dozen or so, at large festivals the number of cattle sacrificed could run into the hundreds, and the numbers feasting on them well into the thousands.\nThe evidence of the existence of such practices is clear in some ancient Greek literature, especially in Homer's epics. Throughout the poems, the use of the ritual is apparent at banquets where meat is served, in times of danger or before some important endeavor to gain the favor of the gods. For example, in Homer's \"Odyssey\" Eumaeus sacrifices a pig with prayer for his unrecognizable master Odysseus. However, in Homer's \"Iliad\", which partly reflects very early Greek civilization, not every banquet of the princes begins with a sacrifice.\n\nThese sacrificial practices share much with recorded forms of sacrificial rituals known from later. Furthermore, throughout the poem, special banquets are held whenever gods indicated their presence by some sign or success in war. Before setting out for Troy, this type of animal sacrifice is offered. Odysseus offers Zeus a sacrificial ram in vain. The occasions of sacrifice in Homer's epic poems may shed some light onto the view of the gods as members of society, rather than as external entities, indicating social ties. Sacrificial rituals played a major role in forming the relationship between humans and the divine.\n\nIt has been suggested that the Chthonic deities, distinguished from Olympic deities by typically being offered the holocaust mode of sacrifice, where the offering is wholly burnt, may be remnants of the native Pre-Hellenic religion and that many of the Olympian deities may come from the Proto-Greeks who overran the southern part of the Balkan Peninsula in the late third millennium BC.\n\nVarious religious festivals were held in ancient Greece. Many were specific only to a particular deity or city-state. For example, the festival of Lykaia was celebrated in Arcadia in Greece, which was dedicated to the pastoral god Pan. Like the other Panhellenic Games, the ancient Olympic Games were a religious festival, held at the sanctuary of Zeus at Olympia. Other festivals centred on Greek theatre, of which the Dionysia in Athens was the most important. More typical festivals featured a procession, large sacrifices and a feast to eat the offerings, and many included entertainments and customs such as visiting friends, wearing fancy dress and unusual behaviour in the streets, sometimes risky for bystanders in various ways. Altogether the year in Athens included some 140 days that were religious festivals of some sort, though varying greatly in importance.\n\nOne rite of passage was the amphidromia, celebrated on the fifth or seventh day after the birth of a child. Childbirth was extremely significant to Athenians, especially if the baby was a boy.\n\nThe main Greek temple building sat within a larger precinct or temenos, usually surrounded by a peribolos fence or wall; the whole is usually called a \"sanctuary\". The Acropolis of Athens is the most famous example, though this was apparently walled as a citadel before a temple was ever built there. The tenemos might include many subsidiary buildings, sacred groves or springs, animals dedicated to the deity, and sometimes people who had taken sanctuary from the law, which some temples offered, for example to runaway slaves.\n\nThe earliest Greek sanctuaries probably lacked temple buildings, though our knowledge of these is limited, and the subject is controversial. A typical early sanctuary seems to have consisted of a tenemos, often around a sacred grove, cave or spring, and perhaps defined only by marker stones at intervals, with an altar for offerings. Many rural sanctuaries probably stayed in this style, but the more popular were gradually able to afford a building to house a cult image, especially in cities. This process was certainly under way by the 9th century, and probably started earlier.\n\nThe temple interiors did not serve as meeting places, since the sacrifices and rituals dedicated to the respective deity took place outside them, at altars within the wider precinct of the sanctuary, which might be large. As the centuries past both the inside of popular temples and the area surrounding them accumulated statues and small shrines or other buildings as gifts, and military trophies, paintings and items in precious metals, effectively turning them into a type of museum.\n\nSome sanctuaries offered oracles, people who were believed to receive divine inspiration in answering questions put by pilgrims. The most famous of these by far was the female priestess called the Pythia at the Temple of Apollo at Delphi, and that of Zeus at Dodona, but there were many others. Some dealt only with medical, agricultural or other specialized matters, and not all represented gods, like that of the hero Trophonius at Livadeia.\n\nThe temple was the house of the deity it was dedicated to, who in some sense resided in the cult image in the \"cella\" or main room inside, normally facing the only door. The cult image normally took the form of a statue of the deity, typically roughly life-size, but in some cases many times life-size. In early days these were in wood, marble or terracotta, or in the specially prestigious form of a chryselephantine statue using ivory plaques for the visible parts of the body and gold for the clothes, around a wooden framework. The most famous Greek cult images were of this type, including the Statue of Zeus at Olympia, and Phidias's Athena Parthenos in the Parthenon in Athens, both colossal statues, now completely lost. Fragments of two chryselephantine statues from Delphi have been excavated. Bronze cult images were less frequent, at least until Hellenistic times. Early images seem often to have been dressed in real clothes, and at all periods images might wear real jewellery donated by devotees.\n\nThe acrolith was another composite form, this time a cost-saving one with a wooden body. A xoanon was a primitive and symbolic wooden image, perhaps comparable to the Hindu lingam; many of these were retained and revered for their antiquity, even when a new statue was the main cult image. Xoana had the advantage that they were easy to carry in processions at festivals. Many of the Greek statues well known from Roman marble copies were originally temple cult images, which in some cases, such as the Apollo Barberini, can be credibly identified. A very few actual originals survive, for example, the bronze Piraeus Athena ( high, including a helmet). The image stood on a base, from the 5th century often carved with reliefs.\n\nIt used to be thought that access to the \"cella\" of a Greek temple was limited to the priests, and it was entered only rarely by other visitors, except perhaps during important festivals or other special occasions. In recent decades this picture has changed, and scholars now stress the variety of local access rules. Pausanias was a gentlemanly traveller of the 2nd-century AD who declares that the special intention of his travels around Greece was to see cult images, and usually managed to do so.\n\nIt was typically necessary to make a sacrifice or gift, and some temples restricted access either to certain days of the year, or by class, race, gender (with either men or women forbidden), or even more tightly. Garlic-eaters were forbidden in one temple, in another women unless they were virgins; restrictions typically arose from local ideas of ritual purity or a perceived whim of the deity. In some places visitors were asked to show they spoke Greek; elsewhere Dorians were not allowed entry. Some temples could only be viewed from the threshold. Some temples are said never to be opened at all. But generally Greeks, including slaves, had a reasonable expectation of being allowed into the \"cella\". Once inside the \"cella\" it was possible to pray to or before the cult image, and sometimes to touch it; Cicero saw a bronze image of Heracles with its foot largely worn away by the touch of devotees. Famous cult images such as the Statue of Zeus at Olympia functioned as significant visitor attractions.\n\nThose who were not satisfied by the public cult of the gods could turn to various mystery religions which operated as cults into which members had to be initiated in order to learn their secrets.\n\nHere, they could find religious consolations that traditional religion could not provide: a chance at mystical awakening, a systematic religious doctrine, a map to the afterlife, a communal worship, and a band of spiritual fellowship.\n\nSome of these mysteries, like the mysteries of Eleusis and Samothrace, were ancient and local. Others were spread from place to place, like the mysteries of Dionysus. During the Hellenistic period and the Roman Empire, exotic mystery religions became widespread, not only in Greece, but all across the empire. Some of these were new creations, such as Mithras, while others had been practiced for hundreds of years before, like the Egyptian mysteries of Osiris.\n\nMainstream Greek religion appears to have developed out of Proto-Indo-European religion and although very little is known about the earliest periods there are suggestive hints that some local elements go back even further than the Bronze Age or Helladic period to the farmers of Neolithic Greece. There was also clearly cultural evolution from the Late Helladic Mycenaean religion of the Mycenaean civilization. Both the literary settings of some important myths and many important sanctuaries relate to locations that were important Helladic centres that had become otherwise unimportant by Greek times.\n\nThe Mycenaeans perhaps treated Poseidon, to them a god of earthquakes as well as the sea, as their chief deity, and forms of his name along with several other Olympians are recognisable in records in Linear B, although Apollo and Aphrodite are absent. Only about half of the Mycenaean pantheon seem to survive the Greek Dark Ages though. The archaeological evidence for continuity in religion is far clearer for Crete and Cyprus than the Greek mainland.\n\nGreek religious concepts may also have absorbed the beliefs and practices of earlier, nearby cultures, such as Minoan religion, and other influences came from the Near East, especially via Cyprus. Herodotus, writing in the 5th century BCE, traced many Greek religious practices to Egypt.\n\nThe Great Goddess hypothesis, that a Stone Age religion dominated by a female Great Goddess was displaced by a male-dominated Indo-European hierarchy, has been proposed for Greece as for Minoan Crete and other regions, but has not been in favour with specialists for some decades, though the question remains too poorly-evidenced for a clear conclusion; at the least the evidence from Minoan art shows more goddesses than gods. The Twelve Olympians, with Zeus as sky father, certainly have a strong Indo-European flavour; by the epic works of Homer all are well-established, except for Dionysus. However, several of the Homeric hymns, probably composed slightly later, are dedicated to him.\n\nArchaic and Classical Greece saw the development of flourishing cities and of stone-built temples to the gods, which were rather consistent in design across the Greek world. Religion was closely tied to civic life, and priests were mostly drawn from the local elite. Religious works led the development of Greek sculpture, though apparently not the now-vanished Greek painting. While much religious practice was, as well as personal, aimed at developing solidarity within the \"polis\", a number of important sanctuaries developed a \"Panhellenic\" status, drawing visitors from all over the Greek world. These served as an essential component in the growth and self-consciousness of Greek nationalism. \nThe mainstream religion of the Greeks did not go unchallenged within Greece. As Greek philosophy developed its ideas about ethics, the Olympians were bound to be found wanting. Several notable philosophers criticised a belief in the gods. The earliest of these was Xenophanes, who chastised the human vices of the gods as well as their anthropomorphic depiction. Plato wrote that there was one supreme god, whom he called the \"Form of the Good\", and which he believed was the emanation of perfection in the universe. Plato's disciple, Aristotle, also disagreed that polytheistic deities existed, because he could not find enough empirical evidence for it. He believed in a Prime Mover, which had set creation going, but was not connected to or interested in the universe.\n\nIn the Hellenistic period between the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC and the Roman conquest of Greece (146 BC) Greek religion developed in various ways, including expanding over at least some of Alexander's conquests. The new dynasties of diadochi, kings and tyrants often spent lavishly on temples, often following Alexander in trying to insinuate themselves into religious cult; this was much easier for the Ptolemaic dynasty of Egypt, where the traditional ancient Egyptian religion had long had deified monarchs. The enormous raised Pergamon Altar (now in Berlin) and the Altar of Hieron in Sicily are examples of unprecedentedly large constructions of the period.\n\nNew cults of imported deities such as Isis from Egypt, Atargatis from Syria, and Cybele from Anatolia became increasingly important, as well as several philosophical movements such as Platonism, stoicism, and Epicureanism; both tended to detract from the traditional religion, although many Greeks were able to hold beliefs from more than one of these groups. Serapis was essentially a Hellenistic creation, if not devised then spread in Eygpt for political reasons by Ptolemy I Soter as a hybrid of Greek and local styles of deity. Various philosophical movements, including the Orphics and Pythagoreans, began to question the ethics of animal sacrifice, and whether the gods really appreciated it; from the surviving texts Empedocles and Theophrastus (both vegetarians) were notable critics. Hellenistic astrology developed late in the period, as another distraction from the traditional practices. Although the traditional myths, festivals and beliefs all continued, these trends probably reduced the grip on the imagination of the traditional pantheon, especially among the educated, but probably more widely in the general population.\n\nWhen the Roman Republic conquered Greece in 146 BC, it took much of Greek religion (along with many other aspects of Greek culture such as literary and architectural styles) and incorporated it into its own. The Greek gods were equated with the ancient Roman deities; Zeus with Jupiter, Hera with Juno, Poseidon with Neptune, Aphrodite with Venus, Ares with Mars, Artemis with Diana, Athena with Minerva, Hermes with Mercury, Hephaestus with Vulcan, Hestia with Vesta, Demeter with Ceres, Hades with Pluto, Tyche with Fortuna, and Pan with Faunus. Some of the gods, such as Apollo and Bacchus, had earlier been adopted by the Romans. There were also many deities that existed in the Roman religion before its interaction with Greece that were not associated with a Greek deity, including Janus and Quirinus.\n\nThe Romans generally did not spend much on new temples in Greece, other that those for their Imperial cult, which were placed in all important cities. Exceptions include Antoninus Pius (r. 138-161 AD), whose commissions include the Baalbec Temple of Bacchus, arguably the most impressive survival from the imperial period (though the Temple of Jupiter-Baal next to it was larger). It could be said the Greek world was by this time well furnished with sanctuaries. Roman governors and emperors often pilfered famous statues from sanctuaries, sometimes leaving contemporary reproductions in their place. Verres, governor of Sicily from 73 to 70 BC, was an early example who, unusually, was prosecuted after his departure.\n\nAfter the huge Roman conquests beyond Greece, new cults from Egypt and Asia became popular in Greece as well as the western empire, and a decline of Greco-Roman polytheism becomes evident from the 2nd century AD, that was as much a cause as a result of the rise of Early Christianity. The edicts of the Christian Emperor Theodosius I from 380 onwards finally outlawed most public religious practices of the old religion, such as sacrifices; the last Olympic Games were held in 393 AD.\n\nGreek religion and philosophy have experienced a number of revivals, most notably in the arts, humanities and spirituality of the Renaissance. More recently, a revival has begun with the contemporary Hellenism, as it is often called (a term first used by the last pagan Roman emperor Julian). In Greece, the term used is Hellene ethnic religion (Greek: Ελληνική Εθνική Θρησκεία).\n\nModern Hellenism reflects Neoplatonic/Platonic speculation (which is represented in Porphyry, Libanius, Proclus, and Julian), as well as classical cult practice. However, there are many fewer followers than Greek Orthodox Christianity. According to estimates reported by the U.S. State Department, there are perhaps as many as 2,000 followers of the ancient Greek religion out of a total Greek population of 11 million; however, Hellenism's leaders place that figure at 100,000 followers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142388", "title": "Angra Mainyu", "text": "Angra Mainyu\n\nAngra Mainyu (; Avestan: \"𐬀𐬢𐬭𐬀⸱𐬨𐬀𐬌𐬥𐬌𐬌𐬎‎\" \"Aŋra Mainiiu\") is the Avestan-language name of Zoroastrianism's hypostasis of the \"destructive spirit\". The Middle Persian equivalent is Ahriman 𐭠𐭧𐭫𐭬𐭭𐭩‎ (Anglicised pronunciation: ). Angra Mainyu is omnimalevolent. Angra Mainyu is Ahura Mazda’s adversary.\n\nAvestan \"angra mainyu\" \"seems to have been an original conception of Zoroaster's.\" In the Gathas, which are the oldest texts of Zoroastrianism and are attributed to the prophet himself, \"angra mainyu\" is not yet a proper name. In the one instance in these hymns where the two words appear together, the concept spoken of is that of a \"mainyu\" (\"mind\", \"spirit\" or otherwise an abstract energy etc.) that is \"angra\" (\"destructive\", \"chaotic\", \"disorderly\", \"inhibitive\", \"malign\" etc, of which a manifestation can be anger). In this single instance—in \"Yasna\" 45.2—the \"more bounteous of the spirits twain\" declares \"angra mainyu\" to be its \"absolute antithesis\".\n\nA similar statement occurs in \"Yasna\" 30.3, where the antithesis is however \"aka mainyu\", \"aka\" being the Avestan language word for \"evil\". Hence, \"aka mainyu\" is the \"evil spirit\" or \"evil mind\" or \"evil thought,\" as contrasted with \"spenta mainyu\", the \"bounteous spirit\" with which Ahura Mazda conceived of creation, which then \"was\".\n\nThe \"aka mainyu\" epithet recurs in \"Yasna\" 32.5, when the principle is identified with the \"daeva\"s that deceive humankind and themselves. While in later Zoroastrianism, the \"daevas\" are demons, this is not yet evident in the Gathas: Zoroaster stated that the \"daevas\" are \"wrong gods\" or \"false gods\" that are to be rejected, but they are not yet demons.\n\nIn \"Yasna\" 32.3, these \"daevas\" are identified as the offspring, not of Angra Mainyu, but of \"akem manah\", \"evil thinking\". A few verses earlier it is however the \"daebaaman\", \"deceiver\"—not otherwise identified but \"probably Angra Mainyu\"—who induces the \"daevas\" to choose \"achistem manah\"—\"worst thinking.\" In \"Yasna\" 32.13, the abode of the wicked is not the abode of Angra Mainyu, but the abode of the same \"worst thinking\". \"One would have expected [Angra Mainyu] to reign in hell, since he had created 'death and how, at the end, the worst existence shall be for the deceitful' (\"Y.\" 30.4).\"\n\n\"Yasna\" 19.15 recalls that Ahura Mazda's recital of the Ahuna Vairya invocation puts Angra Mainyu in a stupor. In \"Yasna\" 9.8, Angra Mainyu creates Aži Dahaka, but the serpent recoils at the sight of Mithra's mace (\"Yasht\" 10.97, 10.134). In \"Yasht\" 13, the Fravashis defuse Angra Mainyu's plans to dry up the earth, and in \"Yasht\" 8.44 Angra Mainyu battles but cannot defeat Tishtrya and so prevent the rains. In \"Vendidad\" 19, Angra Mainyu urges Zoroaster to turn from the good religion by promising him sovereignty of the world. On being rejected, Angra Mainyu assails the prophet with legions of demons, but Zoroaster deflects them all. In \"Yasht\" 19.96, a verse that reflects a Gathic injunction, Angra Mainyu will be vanquished and Ahura Mazda will ultimately prevail.\n\nIn \"Yasht\" 19.46ff, Angra Mainyu and Spenta Mainyu battle for possession of \"khvaraenah\", \"divine glory\" or \"fortune\". In some verses of the Yasna (e.g. \"Yasna\" 57.17), the two principles are said to have created the world, which contradicts the Gathic principle that declares Ahura Mazda to be the sole creator and which is reiterated in the cosmogony of \"Vendidad\" 1. In that first chapter, which is the basis for the 9th–12th-century \"Bundahishn\", the creation of sixteen lands by Ahura Mazda is countered by the Angra Mainyu's creation of sixteen scourges such as winter, sickness, and vice. \"This shift in the position of Ahura Mazda, his total assimilation to this Bounteous Spirit [Mazda's instrument of creation], must have taken place in the 4th century BC at the latest; for it is reflected in Aristotle's testimony, which confronts Areimanios with Oromazdes (apud Diogenes Laertius, 1.2.6).\"\n\n\"Yasht\" 15.43 assigns Angra Mainyu to the nether world, a world of darkness. So also \"Vendidad \" 19.47, but other passages in the same chapter (19.1 and 19.44) have him dwelling in the region of the \"daeva\"s, which the \"Vendidad\" asserts is in the north. There (19.1, 19.43–44), Angra Mainyu is the \"daevanam daevo\", \"\"daeva\" of \"daeva\"s\" or chief of the \"daeva\"s. The superlative \"daevo.taema\" is however assigned to the demon Paitisha (\"opponent\"). In an enumeration of the \"daeva\"s in Vendidad 1.43, Angra Mainyu appears first and Paitisha appears last. \"Nowhere is Angra Mainyu said to be the creator of the \"daeva\"s or their father.\"\n\nZurvanism was a branch of Zoroastrianism that sought to resolve the dilemma of the \"twin spirits\" of \"Yasna\" 30.3. The resolution, which probably developed out of the contact with Chaldea, was to have both Ahura Mazda and Angra Mainyu as twin sons of the First Principle \"Time\" (Avestan: \"Zurvan\"). Zurvanism was strongly criticized as a heresy during the Sassanid period (225–651) of Iranian history, an era in which it probably also had its largest following. Although the monist doctrine is not attested after the 10th century, some Zurvanite features are nonetheless still evident in present-day Zoroastrianism.\n\nZurvanism's principal feature is then the notion that both Ahura Mazda (MP: Ohrmuzd) and Angra Mainyu (Ahriman) were twin brothers, with the former being the epitome of good and the latter being the epitome of evil. Further, this dichotomy was \"by choice\", that is, Angra Mainyu chose to be evil: \"It is not that I cannot create anything good, but that I will not.\" To prove the ability to create something good, he created the peacock.\n\nThe mythology of the twins is only attested in the post-Sassanid Syriac and Armenian polemic such as that of Eznik of Kolb. According to these sources the genesis saw Zurvan as an androgynous deity, existing alone but desiring offspring who would create \"heaven and hell and everything in between.\" Zurvan then sacrificed for a thousand years. Towards the end of this period, Zurvan began to doubt the efficacy of sacrifice and in the moment of this doubt Ohrmuzd and Ahriman were conceived: Ohrmuzd for the sacrifice and Ahriman for the doubt. Upon realizing that twins were to be born, Zurvan resolved to grant the first-born sovereignty over creation. Ohrmuzd perceived Zurvan's decision, which he then communicated to his brother. Ahriman then preempted Ohrmuzd by ripping open the womb to emerge first. Reminded of the resolution to grant Ahriman sovereignty, Zurvan conceded, but limited kingship to a period of 9000 years, after which Ohrmuzd would rule for all eternity.\n\nIn the Pahlavi texts of the 9th–12th century, Ahriman (written \"ʼhl(y)mn\") is frequently written upside down \"as a sign of contempt and disgust.\"\n\nIn the \"Book of Arda Viraf\" 5.10, the narrator—the 'righteous Viraf'—is taken by Sarosh and Adar to see \"the reality of God and the archangels, and the non-reality of Ahriman and the demons.\"\n\nIn the Zurvanite \"Ulema-i Islam\" (a Zoroastrian text, despite the title), \"Ahriman also is called by some name by some people and they ascribe evil unto him but nothing can also be done by him without Time.\" A few chapters later, the Ulema notes that \"it is clear that Ahriman is a non-entity\" but \"at the resurrection Ahriman will be destroyed and thereafter all will be good; and [change?] will proceed through the will of God.\" In the \"Sad Dar\", the world is described as having been created by Ohrmuzd and become pure through his truth. But Ahriman, \"being devoid of anything good, does not issue from that which is owing to truth.\" (62.2)\n\n\"Book of Jamaspi\" 2.3 notes that \"Ahriman, like a worm, is so much associated with darkness and old age, that he perishes in the end.\" Chapter 4.3 recalls the grotesque legend of Tahmurasp (Avestan: Taxma Urupi) riding Angra Mainyu for thirty years (cf. \"Yasht\" 15.12, 19.29) and so preventing him from doing evil. In chapter 7, Jamasp explains that the Indians declare Ahriman will die, but \"those, who are not of good religion, go to hell.\"\n\nThe \"Bundahishn\", a Zoroastrian account of creation completed in the 12th century has much to say about Ahriman and his role in the cosmogony. In chapter 1.23, following the recitation of the Ahuna Vairya, Ohrmuzd takes advantage of Ahriman's incapacity to create life without intervention. When Ahriman recovers, he creates Jeh, the primal whore who afflicts women with their menstrual cycles. In Bundahishn 4.12, Ahriman perceives that Ohrmuzd is superior to himself, and so flees to fashion his many demons with which to conquer the universe in battle. The entire universe is finally divided between the Ohrmuzd and the \"yazad\"s on one side and Ahriman with his \"dev\"s on the other. Ahriman slays the primal bull, but the moon rescues the seed of the dying creature, and from it springs all animal creation. But the battle goes on, with mankind caught in the middle, whose duty it remains to withstand the forces of evil through good thoughts, words and deeds.\n\nOther texts see the world created by Ohrmuzd as a trap for Ahriman, who is then distracted by creation and expends his force in a battle he cannot win. (\"The epistles of Zatspram\" 3.23; \"Shkand Gumanig Vichar\" 4.63–4.79). The \"Dadistan denig\" explains that Ohrmuzd, being omniscient, knew of Ahriman's intent, but it would have been against his \"justice and goodness to punish Ahriman before he wrought evil [and] this is why the world is created.\"\n\nAhriman has no such omniscience, a fact that Ohrmuzd reminds him of (\"Bundahishn\" 1.16). In contrast, in Manichaean scripture, Mani ascribes foresight to Ahriman.\n\nIn 1862, Martin Haug proposed a new reconstruction of what he believed was Zoroaster's original monotheistic teaching, as expressed in the Gathas— a teaching which he believed had been corrupted by later Zoroastrian dualistic tradition as expressed in post-Gathic scripture and in the texts of tradition. For Angra Mainyu, this interpretation meant a demotion from a spirit coeval with Ahura Mazda to a mere product of Ahura Mazda. Haug's theory was based to a great extent on a new interpretation of \"Yasna\" 30.3; he argued that the good \"twin\" in that passage should not be regarded as more or less identical to Ahura Mazda, as earlier Zoroastrian thought had assumed, but as a separate created entity, Spenta Mainyu. Thus, both Angra Mainyu and Spenta Mainyu were created by Ahura Mazda and should be regarded as his respective 'creative' and 'destructive' emanations.\n\nHaug's interpretation was gratefully received by the Parsis of Bombay, who at the time were under considerable pressure from Christian missionaries (most notable amongst them John Wilson) who sought converts among the Zoroastrian community and criticized Zoroastrianism for its alleged dualism as contrasted with their own monotheism. Haug's reconstruction had also other attractive aspects that seemed to make the religion more compatible with nineteenth-century Enlightenment, as he attributed to Zoroaster a rejection of rituals and of worship of entities other than the supreme deity.\n\nThese new ideas were subsequently disseminated as a Parsi interpretation, which eventually reached the west and so in turn corroborated Haug's theories. Among the Parsis of the cities, who were accustomed to English language literature, Haug's ideas were more often repeated than those of the Gujarati language objections of the priests, with the result that Haug's ideas became well entrenched and are today almost universally accepted as doctrine.\n\nWhile some modern scholars have theories similar to Haug's regarding Angra Mainyu's origins, many now think that the traditional \"dualist\" interpretation was in fact correct all along and that Angra Mainyu was always considered to be completely separate and independent from Ahura Mazda.\n\nRudolf Steiner, who founded the esoteric spiritual movement anthroposophy, used the concept of Ahriman to name one of two extreme forces which pull humanity away from the centering influence of Christ. Steiner associated Ahriman, the lower spirit, with materialism, science, heredity, objectivity and soul-hardening. He thought that contemporary Christianity was subject to Ahrimanic influence, since it tended towards materialistic interpretations. Steiner predicted that Ahriman, as a supersensible Being, would incarnate into an earthly form, 'some little time after our present earthly existence, in fact in the third post-Christian millennium'.\n\n"}
{"id": "39733353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39733353", "title": "Beary language", "text": "Beary language\n\nBeary or Byari (ಬ್ಯಾರಿ ಬಾಸೆ \"Byāri Bāsě\") is an Indian language spoken by the Muslim communities mainly of Karnataka (Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts) and some parts of North Kerala (\"Byaris\"). Bearys speak a language made of Malayalam idioms with Tulu phonology and grammar. This language is traditionally known as \"Mappila Bashe\" because of Bearys' close contact with Mappila, the Malayali Muslims. Due to the intensive influence of Tulu for centuries, it is today considered close to both Tulu and Malayalam.\n\nThe language uses the Arabic and Kannada alphabets for writing. Being a distant cousin of other dialects of Malayalam and surrounded by other linguistic groups for centuries, mainly Tulu, the dialect exhibits ancient features as well as modern innovations not seen in other well-known dialects of Malayalam.\nSurrounded by Tulu-speaking populations, the impact of Tulu on the phonological, morphological and syntactic structure of the dialect is evident.\nProfessor BM Ichlangod by his recent research work on the Beary dialect proved that, it was one of the independent South Indian Dravidian dialect having derived from Tamil and also rarely Bearies used a script known as Vatteluthu.\n\nSounds peculiar to Malayalam such as 'ḻ', 'ṇ', 'ṟ' are not found in this dialect. 'ḷ' and 'ṇ' are merged with l and n, respectively. 'ṟ' is merged with r and tt, 'tt' to t. This resembles Tulu.\n\nThe initial \"v\" of standard Malayalam corresponds to an initial \"b\" in Beary Bashe.\nThe same change has taken place in Tulu, too.\n\n\nThe final ‘a’ of standard Malayalam corresponds to the final ‘e’ in Beary Bashe.\n\nThe word final ‘n’ and ‘m’ of standard Malayalam are dropped in Beary Bashe.\n\nGeminated consonants occurring after a long vowel and also after a second short vowel of a word in standard Malayalam get degeminated in Beary Bashe.\n\nAlmost all lexical items in Beary Bashe can be related to corresponding lexical items in Malayalam, Tulu or Perso-Arabic origin.\nHowever, some equivalents can only be found in Mappila dialects of Malayalam in Kerala.\n\nVerbs in old Dravidian languages did not have any person marking. Person endings of verbs observed in modern Dravidian languages are later innovations.\nMalayalam is the only Dravidian language that does not show any verbal person suffixes, so Malayalam verbs can be said to represent the original stage of Dravidian verbs. Person suffixes in Beary Bashe closely resemble those of Tulu, although the past tense in this dialect agrees with that of standard Malayalam in shape as well as in the distribution of allomorphs.\n\nBeary Bashe is strongly influenced by the Arabic language. Nativised Arabic words are very common in everyday speech, especially in coastal areas. \"Saan\", \"Pinhana\", \"Gubboosu\", \"Dabboosu\", \"Pattir\", \"Rakkasi\", \"Seintaan\", and \"Kayeen\" are a few examples of Beary words with Arabic roots. Beary Bashe also has words related to Tamil and Malayalam. Tamil and Malayalam Speakers can understand Beary up to an extent of 75%.\n\nThe Bearys of the coast have produced a rich body of literary works in both Beary Bashe and Kannada. Beary literature comprises poetry, research articles on Bearys, historical analysis of Dakshina Kannada Muslims, essays, stories and other genres of literature. \"English-Kannada-Beary\" dictionary is also available in the market produced by Dr. A. Wahhab Doddamane. A number of notable Beary littérateurs have contributed to enrich the Beary literature. Dr. Susheela P. Upadhyaya, an eminent scholar has made a comprehensive study in finding the roots of Beary literature. Dr. A. Wahhab Doddamane has produced a book entitled The Muslims of Dakshina Kannada, which is an informative documentary work.\n\nThe Bearys have also produced a number of magazines and periodicals from Mangalore and other cities of the district. Some periodicals have become popular and a few of them have become a part of Beary history. Generally Kannada script is used to produce Beary literature. More than a 100 books, 400 audio cassettes and 2 video albums have been brought out so far.\n\nBearys have brought out numerous lyrics and songs in Beary Bashe. Beary songwriters and music composers have published a number of Beary albums, thousands of copies in electronic format have already been sold.\n\nThe Beary Bashe has its own songs and 'ghazals'. Although it is unique in its nature the songs bore resemblance to Moplah Patts (Mappila Songs). The Beary folk songs were rendered during marriage (\"Mangila\") parties, and for many other occasions. Kolkkali patt is a song sung during a cultural play called \"Kolata\" which uses short sticks in both the hands while playing, Unjal patt is sung by the girls during the occasion of putting the child to cradle, Moyilanji patt is sung during marriage ceremonies.\n\nUnfortunately modern day Bearys do not know the folk songs sung by their ancestors. Several Beary folk games have also vanished.\nOne of the famous folk songs sung by Beary women to tease the bride during her wedding celebrations is \"appa chudu chudu patima\". Elderly ladies of the neighbourhood gather around the bride on the day of Mangila (wedding) to sing those melodious teasing lines. The first few lines are:\nNallo baasye baava beary, cheh ... !!\n\n\nThe first Beary language feature film \"Byari\" shared the award for the best feature film at the 59th Indian National Film Awards.\n\nThe inaugural ceremony of first Beary language video movie, \"Mami Marmolu\" was held in Mangalore on 22 October 2008. The film is being produced by Sony Enterprises, B.S. Gangadhara is the producer of the film. The film will focus on social and family problems being faced by the Beary families. Rahim Uchil has written the story, screen play, dialogue of the film. The director of this first Beary movie is Rahim Uchil while Prakash Padubidri is the assistant director. Rajesh Haleangady will be the cinematographer and music is being provided by Ravindra Prabhu.\n\nThe movie stars Vaibhavi (Gulsha Fawzia Begum), Rahim Uchil, Veena Mangalore, Roopashri Varkady, Riyana, K. K. Gatti, Ashok Bikernakatte, Ibrahim Thanneerbhavi, Riyaz, Sujnesh and Imtiyaz. Retired Police officer G. A. Bava will also have a role. Film will be shot in and around Mangalore city including Maripalla and Pilikula.\n\nThere are four \"Beary Sahitya Sammelana\"s (The Beary Literature Summit) have been taken place so far. Cultural activities, exhibition related to Beary culture and society, talks on Beary society by Beary scholars, publications and Beary literature stalls are the centre of attraction during any \"Beary Sahitya Sammelana\".\n\n\nThe Fourth \"Beary Sahitya Sammelana\" (The Fourth Beary Literary Summit), held\nin Vokkaligara Samaja Bhavana in the city of Chikmagalur on 27 February 2007 which demanded that the state government establish a Beary Sahitya Academy. The Sammelana was jointly organized by \"Kendra Beary Sahitya Parishat,\" Mangalore, and \"Chickmagalur Bearygala Okkoota.\" Chikmagalur is the district that harbors the second largest Beary population, next to Dakshina Kannada.\n\nThe theme of the Sammelana was \"Prosperity through Literature, Development through Education and Integrity for Security.\" \n\nThe sammelana also took up issues such as official recognition to the Beary Bashe by the State Government, setting up of Beary Sahitya Academy, and recognition to the community as linguistic minority. It is said that Beary Bashe is as old as Tulu and spoken by more than 1,500,000 people around the world. The history of this dialect is at least 1200 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "6617741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6617741", "title": "Christian Democratic Party (Belize)", "text": "Christian Democratic Party (Belize)\n\nThe Democratic and Agricultural Labour Party (DALP), more commonly referred to as the Christian Democratic Party (CDP), was a short-lived political party in Belize. It promoted Christian Democratic ideals.\n\nShortly after the formation of the National Independence Party in 1958, Member of the Belize House of Representatives Enrique Depaz claimed at a meeting held on 19 August that there was no opposition to the ruling People's United Party (PUP), who had just won elections in March 1957. He proposed that a third party was necessary to provide real representation to Belizeans. His proposal was accepted and the DALP was formed under leader Nicholas Pollard. The party aimed to achieve self-government and promote social, economic and political development and was against entering groupings such as the Federation of the West Indies or any proposed affiliation with Guatemala and/or the rest of Central America.\n\nBy October 1960, the party felt it was time to reorganise. Pollard was demoted to Deputy Leader and replaced by MP Denbigh Jeffery. Joining them were Chairman Lionel Francis (previously of the NP), Secretary Mervyn Hulse and assistant Ernest Cain, Treasurer Clare Gill and National Organizer Robert Taylor. The party contested its first elections in 1961, but none of the eleven candidates it fielded won a seat. As a result the party fizzled and most of its members switched over to the National Independence Party.\n\nThe party was briefly revived prior to the 1984 elections by Theodore Aranda to promote his new party based in Dangriga. However, it received only 708 votes (1.5%) and failed to win a seat.\n"}
{"id": "4321683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4321683", "title": "Deacon Blackfire", "text": "Deacon Blackfire\n\nDeacon Blackfire is a fictional supervillain in DC Comics. Blackfire is stated as being over a hundred years old, and is often portrayed as a power-crazed charismatic con artist and cult leader skilled in manipulation and brainwashing. Blackfire claimed to be a Native American shaman who was entombed alive after being found guilty of killing a tribal chief and committing heresy.\n\nHe first appeared in \"\" #1 (1988) and was created by Jim Starlin and Bernie Wrightson.\n\nDeacon Blackfire is the main antagonist in the four-issue miniseries, \"Batman: The Cult\". Blackfire is a conman and cult leader who may be over 100 years old. He forms an army in the sewers beneath Gotham City, largely composed of the homeless. Blackfire uses this army to begin a violent war on crime, which escalates into him taking over the entire city, resulting in it being isolated from the rest of the country. Blackfire captures and brainwashes Batman, temporarily making the Caped Crusader a member of Blackfire's cult, during which Batman breaks his cardinal rule of not killing. Batman eventually breaks his conditioning, but its aftereffects make it difficult for him to capture Blackfire. After a brutal search through the sewers, Batman confronts Blackfire, who demands that Batman kill him, making him a martyr. Batman refuses, and instead savagely beats Blackfire in front of his army. Blackfire's army turns on him and kills him.\n\nAs part of the \"Blackest Night\" event, Blackfire's corpse is reanimated by a black power ring and recruited to the Black Lantern Corps in \"Blackest Night: Batman\" #1 (October 2009).\n\nIn September 2011, \"The New 52\" rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, Deacon Blackfire is an evangelist who is the center of the occult power permeating Arkham Asylum, with Joker's Daughter as his enforcer. When Batwing and The Spectre (as Jim Corrigan) uncover the secret of the Asylum, both are captured by Blackfire and his demonic army. In the same issue, flashbacks are shown of the previous time Batman encountered the Deacon. The Deacon had an army of devoted homeless and underprivileged, but he also kept many of them drugged under his control. He attempted to do the same with Batman, keeping him chained and drugged in his basement for seven days and seven nights, but the Dark Knight's resiliency led to Deacon ordering his devotees to kill him. Batman however, brought up the question of why Deacon Blackfire wouldn't kill him himself, if he was as powerful as he wanted his army to believe. Batman is able to break the pipe he is chained to, and in a reversal of their confrontation in \"The Cult,\" orders the Deacon to kill him to prove himself in front of his followers. Deacon Blackfire refuses multiple times, and his disillusioned army turns on him and appears to beat him to death.\n\nBetween their first encounter and the time of Eternal, the Deacon has taken over the body of Maxie Zeus, in attempt to regain entry into this world.\n\nThe ghost of Deacon Blackfire returns in \"Detective Comics\" #982 (June 2018), attempting to possess his only remaining blood relative as a means of resurrection.\n\nDeacon Blackfire makes his debut in adapted media in \"\", voiced by Marc Worden. Deacon Blackfire is the villain behind the \"Lamb to the Slaughter\" side quest. He is seen at the Lady of Gotham statue about to sacrifice Jack Ryder when he gets too close in investigating Deacon Blackfire's cult. Batman arrives at the Lady of Gotham statue where he fights Deacon Blackfire's cultists to get to Deacon Blackfire and Jack Ryder. After the cultists are defeated, Batman disables the electrical generators powering the sacrificial cage, defeats Deacon Blackfire, and frees Jack Ryder. Moments later at the Gotham City Police Department, Deacon Blackfire is handed to Aaron Cash and the police officers with him to have him locked up in their cells. If Azrael is incarcerated at the Gotham City Police Department, Deacon Blackfire and Azrael develop an animosity towards each other as both villains consider themselves to be God's rightful representative.\n\n"}
{"id": "14922874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14922874", "title": "E. Thomas Lawson", "text": "E. Thomas Lawson\n\nErnest Thomas (Tom) Lawson is an honorary professor at the Institute of Cognition and Culture at Queen's University Belfast. He is the executive editor of the \"Journal of Cognition and Culture\" (JCC) and co-founder (with Luther Martin and Donald Wiebe) of the North American Association for the Study of Religion (NAASR). He is a founding member and has served as the first President of the International Association for the Cognitive Science of Religion (IACSR).\n\nLawson is widely considered to be the founder of the cognitive science of religion field. He has published the books \"Religions of Africa: Traditions in Transformation\" (1984) and, with Robert N. McCauley, \"Rethinking Religion: Connecting Cognition and Culture\" (1990) and \"Bringing Ritual to Mind: Psychological Foundations of Ritual Forms\" (2002). He also played a leading role in the establishment of departments of religion at public universities in the United States during the 1960s. A festschrift in his honor, \"Religion as a Human Capacity: A Festschrift in Honor of E. Thomas Lawson\", was published in 2004. He is Emeritus Professor of Comparative Religion at Western Michigan University.\n\nCurrently, Lawson is a \"Senior Researcher and Distinguished Professor in Residence\" at LEVYNA (Laboratory for Experimental Research of Religion) at Masaryk University in Brno, Czech Republic.\n\nIn addition to his research activities Lawson is an avid painter, traveler, science fiction reader, and bird watcher.\n\n"}
{"id": "18400857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18400857", "title": "Eva Carrière", "text": "Eva Carrière\n\nEva Carrière (born Marthe Béraud 1886 in France, died sometime after 1922), also known as Eva C, was a prominent spiritualist and psychic medium in the early 20th century.\n\nBéraud was born 1886 in France, the daughter of a French officer. She became engaged to Maurice Noël, a soldier who died in the Congo from tropical disease in 1904 before the marriage could take place. Béraud lived with General Elie Noël and his wife at Villa Carmen in Algiers. She claimed she developed her mediumship ability after the death of her fiancé.\n\nIn 1905, she held a series of séances at Villa Carmen and sitters were invited. In these séances she claimed to materialize a spirit called Bien Boa, a 300-year-old Brahmin Hindu. However, photographs taken of Boa looked like the figure was made from a large cardboard cutout. In other sittings Charles Richet reported that Boa was breathing, had moved around the room and had touched him. A photograph revealed Boa to be a man dressed up in a cloak, helmet and beard.\n\nA newspaper article in 1906 revealed that an Arab coachman known as Areski, who had previously worked at the villa, had been hired to play the part of Bien Boa and that the entire thing was a hoax. Areski wrote that he made his appearance into the room by a trapdoor. Béraud also admitted to being involved with the hoax.\n\nIn 1909, Béraud changed her name to Eva Carrière (Eva C) to hide the fraud of her past and began a new career as a medium.\n\nBéraud had a sexual relationship with a woman 25 years her elder, Juliette Bisson (1861–1956), with whom she performed during her seances.\n\nBeraud died sometime after 1922.\n\nCarrière's psychic performances were investigated by Arthur Conan Doyle, author of the \"Sherlock Holmes\" mystery series. He believed that her performances were genuine and that she was not engaged in any deception. Another psychic investigator of the time, Harry Houdini, observed one of her séances and asserted that they were fraudulent. Houdini was never convinced by Carrière and likened her performance to a magician's trick, the Hindu needle trick.\n\nThe physician-psychical researcher Gustav Geley investigated Carrière and wrote she was a genuine medium but never-published photographs were discovered after Geley's death which revealed fraudulent activity from the medium's companion, Juliette Bisson, such as wires seen running from Carrière's head supporting fake ectoplasm. Another physician-psychical researcher, Albert von Schrenck-Notzing, investigated Carrière and believed the ectoplasm she produced was genuine. The psychiatrist Mathilde Ludendorff wrote that the experiments of Schrenck-Notzing were unscientific and that he had been duped by tricks of Carrière. In the Schrenck-Notzing mediumship sessions with Carrière the scientific controls were scarce and there was evidence that she had freed her hands in the séance room.\n\nCarrière has been described as \"perverse and neurotic\". She was well known for running around the séance room naked indulging in sexual activities with her audience. Her companion Juliette Bisson would, during the course of the séance sittings with Schrenck-Notzing, introduce her finger into Eva's vagina to ensure no \"ectoplasm\" had been loaded there beforehand to fool the investigators, and she would also strip nude at the end of a séance and demanded another full-on gynecological exam. The mediumship sessions of Carrière with Schrenck-Notzing have been described as pornographic. The photographs that were taken during the séances show Carrière in the nude emerging from her cabinet and others revealing fake ectoplasm strings hanging from her breasts. Another photograph revealed ectoplasm in the shape of a deflated and disembodied penis. According to historian Ruth Brandon, Juliette Bisson and Carrière were in a sexual relationship together, and they worked in collaboration with each other to fake the ectoplasm and eroticize their male audience.\n\nIn 1920, anthropologist Eric Dingwall and physician-psychical researcher V. J. Woolley tested Carrière in London. They found no evidence of psychic phenomena, discovered that her ectoplasm was made from chewed paper, and said \"the séances proved negative\". Ruth Brandon wrote that Carrière produced some of her effects by regurgitation, hiding her ectoplasm in the séance cabinet and using her secret accomplice Juliette Bisson.\n\nAccording to Harry Price, the photographs of her ectoplasm taken with Schrenck-Notzing looked artificial and two-dimensional, made from cardboard and newspaper portraits, and that there were no scientific controls, as both her hands were free. In 1920, Carrière was investigated by the Society for Psychical Research (SPR) in London. She was also investigated in 1922 and the result of the tests were negative.\n\nIn 1954, Donald West wrote that Carrière´s ectoplasm was made of cut-out paper faces from newspapers and magazines, on which fold marks could sometimes be seen from the photographs. A photograph of Carrière taken from the back of the ectoplasm face revealed it was made from a magazine cut out, complete with the letters \"Le Miro\". The two-dimensional face had been clipped from the French magazine Le Miroir. Back issues of the magazine also matched some of Carrière's ectoplasm faces. In 1913, a Miss Barkley in an article in the newspaper \"Neue Wiener Tagblatt\" exposed the fraud of Carrière:\n\nMiss Eva prepared the heads before every séance, and endeavoured to make them unrecognizable. A clean-shaven face was decorated with a beard. Grey hairs became black curls, a broad forehead was made into a narrow one. In spite of all her endeavours, she could not obliterate certain characteristic lines.\n\nCarrière used cut out faces of Woodrow Wilson, King Ferdinand of Bulgaria, French president Raymond Poincaré, and the actress Mona Delza.\n\nAlso in 1954, Rudolf Lambert, an SPR member, published details of fraud which had been covered up by many early members of the Institute Metapsychique International (IMI). Lambert had studied Gustav Geley's files on Eva Carrière, and discovered photographs taken by her companion Juliette Bisson depicting fraudulent ectoplasm. Various \"materializations\" were artificially attached to Eva's hair by wires. Geley never published his discovery. Eugéne Osty, the director of the institute, and members Jean Meyer, Albert von Schrenck-Notzing and Charles Richet all knew about the fraudulent photographs, but were firm believers in mediumship phenomena, so demanded the scandal be kept secret.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "575356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=575356", "title": "Guillaume Postel", "text": "Guillaume Postel\n\nGuillaume Postel (25 March 1510 – 6 September 1581) was a French linguist, astronomer, Cabbalist, diplomat, professor, and religious universalist.\n\nBorn in the village of Barenton in Normandy, Postel made his way to Paris to further his education. While studying at the Collège Sainte-Barbe, he became acquainted with Ignatius of Loyola and many of the men who would become the founders of the Company of Jesus, retaining a lifelong affiliation with them.\n\nPostel was adept at Arabic, Hebrew, and Syriac and other Semitic languages, as well as the Classical languages of Ancient Greek and Latin, and soon came to the attention of the French court.\n\nIn 1536, when Francis I sought a Franco-Ottoman alliance with the Ottoman Turks, he sent Postel as the official interpreter of the French embassy of Jean de La Forêt to the Turkish sultan Suleiman the Magnificent in Constantinople.\n\nPostel was also apparently assigned to gather interesting Eastern manuscripts for the royal library, today housed in the collection of oriental manuscripts at the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris.\n\nIn \"Linguarum Duodecim Characteribus Differentium Alphabetum Introductio\" (\"An Introduction to the Alphabetic Characters of Twelve Different Languages\"), published in 1538, Postel became the first scholar to recognize the inscriptions on Judean coins from the period of the Great Jewish Revolt as Hebrew written in the ancient \"Samaritan\" characters.\n\nIn 1543, Postel published a criticism of Protestantism, and highlighted parallels between Islam and Protestantism in \"Alcorani seu legis Mahometi et Evangelistarum concordiae liber\" (\"The book of concord between the Coran and the Evangelicals\").\n\nIn 1544, in \"De orbis terrae concordia\", (\"Concerning the Harmony of the Earth\"), Postel advocated a universalist world religion. The thesis of the book was that all Jews, Muslims and heathens could be converted to the Christian religion once all of the religions of the world were shown to have common foundations and that Christianity best represented these foundations. He believed these foundations to be the love of God, the praising of God, the love of Mankind, and the helping of Mankind.\n\nIn his \"De la République des Turcs\" (\"Of the Turkish Republic\") Postel makes a rather positive description of the Ottoman society.\n\nHis 1553 \"Des merveilles du monde et principalemẽt des admirables choses des Indes & du noveau monde\" is one of the earliest European descriptions of religion in Japan. He interprets Japanese religion in terms of his universalist views on religion, claiming that the indigenous Japanese religion was a form of Christianity and that one could still find evidence of their worship of crucifixes. Such claims about Japanese religion were common in Europe at the time; Postel's writings may have influenced Francis Xavier's expectations of Japan as he traveled there.\n\nPostel was also a relentless advocate for the unification of all Christian churches, a common concern during the period of the Reformation, and remarkably tolerant of other faiths during a time when such tolerance was unusual. This tendency led him to work with the Jesuits in Rome and then Venice, but the incompatibility of their beliefs with his prevented his full membership in their order.\n\nPostel is believed to have spent the years 1548 to 1551 on another trip to the East, traveling to the Holy Land and Syria to collect manuscripts. After this trip, he earned the appointment of Professor of Mathematics and Oriental Languages at the Collège Royal. He took an interest in geography in his course of lectures at the Collège Royal from 1537. In 1557, he published a short compendium under the name, \"De Universitate Liber\", perhaps inspired by that of Henricus Glareanus (1527). This geographer had drawn two polar projections which remained in manuscript. Postel enlarged his treatise in the \"Cosmographicae Disciplinae Compendium\", published in Basel by Oporinus in 1561, in which he set out clearly his ideas on the five continents: Asia-\"Sem\", Africa-\"Cham\" or \"Chamesia\", \"Iapetia\" or Europe and \"Atlantides\"-America divided into \"boreal\" and \"austral\", separated from \"Chasdia\" or the Austral continent by the \"Fretum Martini Bohemi\" (Strait of Magellan). The \"Cosmographicae Disciplinae\" had an index of 600 names, which Postel put into his 1578 world map, \"Polo aptata Nova Charta Universi\". He inscribed on it to the south of South America a legend reading: \"Ce quart de globe, ou demy Hémisphere contient dedans sa longitude clxxx degrès [180º], partie Australle de l'Atlantide dicte Peru ou America par Americ Vespuce Florentin son inventeur, et davantage une partie de la Chasdia or terre Australle vers les Isles Mologa ou Moluques (This quarter of the globe, or half hemisphere, contains within its 180 degrees of longitude the Austral part of Atlantis called Peru or America after Amerigo Vespucci its discoverer, and as well a part of Chasdia or Terra Australis toward the Mologa or Moluccas Islands).\" On his map, the \"Terre Australe\" is called \"Chasdia\" in three places: under Africa (\" pars adhuc incognita\"); under America \"(called residuum Atlantidis meridiana pars\"); and under the Moluccas ( pars\"), where it is joined to an unnamed New Guinea with its \"Rio S. Augustin\". Between South America and \"Chasdia\" is found the mention of the \"Fretum Martin Bohemi\" (Strait of Martin Behaim). \"Chasdia\" was a term forged by Postel: \"Chasdia qui est vers le Gond ou Pole Austral ainsi appellée à cause que de la Meridionale partie ou Australe procede la Misericorde dicte Chassed\" (Chasdia which is toward the austral Hinge or Pole, so called because from the southern or austral part originates Mercy called Chessed). Another legend on the same map over the southern continent reads: \" seu Australis terra, quam Vulgus nautarum di fuego vocant alii Papagallorum dicunt\" (Chasdia or Terra Australis, which the common sailors call Tierra del Fuego and others say is the Land of the Parrots). Postel’s world map strongly influenced Gerard de Jode and others of the Antwerp school.\n\nAfter several years, however, Postel resigned his professorship and traveled all over Central Europe, including Austria and Italy, returning to France after each trip, often by way of Venice. Through his efforts at manuscript collection, translation, and publishing, he brought many Greek, Hebrew and Arabic texts into European intellectual discourse in the Late Renaissance and Early Modern periods. Among these texts are:\n\n\nTo Postel, the human soul is composed of intellect and emotion, which he envisages as male and female, head and heart. And the soul's triadic unity is through the union of these two halves. \n\nWhile working on his translations of the Zohar and the Bahir in Venice in 1547, Postel became the confessor of \"Mother\" Zuana, an elderly woman who was responsible for the kitchen of the hospital of San Giovanni e Paolo. Zuana confessed to experiencing divine visions, which inspired Postel to believe that she was a prophet, that he was her spiritual son, and that he was destined to be the unifier of the world's religions. When he returned from his second journey to the East, he dedicated two works to her memory: \"Les Très Merveilleuses Victoire des Femmes du Nouveau Monde\" and \"La Vergine Venetiana\".\n\nBased on his own visions, these works brought Postel into conflict with the Inquisition. Postel's ties, however, with the very men tasked with trying him led to a verdict of insanity, rather than heresy, which carried the death penalty, and consequently Postel was confined to the Papal prisons in Rome. He was released when the prison was opened upon the death of Paul IV in 1559. Czech humanist Šimon Proxenus ze Sudetu (1532–1575), reports that in 1564 Postel was detained to the monastery of St. Martin des Champs in Paris, \"en raison de son délire sur la Mère Jeanne\", or because of his delusions on the Mother Jeanne.\n\nPostel resumed his life in Paris, but the Miracle at Laon in 1566 had a profound effect on him, and that year he published an account of it, \"De summopere considerando miraculo\", in which he again expounded upon the interrelatedness of all parts of the universe and his imminent restoration of the world order. As a result, he was sentenced to house arrest by the parlement of Paris, and eventually spent the last eleven years of his life confined to the monastery of St. Martin des Champs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46537632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46537632", "title": "Hindu Jagran Manch", "text": "Hindu Jagran Manch\n\nHindu Jagran Manch (translation: Forum for Hindu Awakening) is an Indian Hindu activist group affiliated to the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP). It focuses on activism against religious conversion and works for the reconversion of Muslims and Christians to Hinduism. It is said to have been founded by Vinay Katiyar in 1982. It first came to public attention for its activism and religious violence in the tribal areas of the Dangs district of Gujarat in 1998. It and other similar affiliates Hindu Jagran Samiti, Hindu Jagran Samaj and Dharm Jagran Samiti have been implicated in the aggressive Ghar Wapsi (reconversion to Hinduism) programmes in 2014–2015.\n"}
{"id": "56071208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56071208", "title": "Hindu Monastery of Africa", "text": "Hindu Monastery of Africa\n\nHindu Monastery of Africa located at Odorkor in Greater Accra Region of Ghana. It is the first African hindu monastery and was established in 1975 by Swami Ghanananda.\n"}
{"id": "9380113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9380113", "title": "Hinduism in Martinique", "text": "Hinduism in Martinique\n\nHinduism is followed in the Martinique by a small fraction of Indo-Martiniquais.As of 2007,Hinduism constitute 0.3% of the population of Martinique.But according to other sources it is as high as 5%.\n\nAfter the abolition of slavery in 1848, plantation owners filled their need for laborers by importing Indians from the subcontinent, starting in 1853. These immigrants brought with them their Hindu religion. Many Hindu temples are still in use in Martinique and, in 1987, a personal description of their secret ceremonies was published by a Hindu participant.\n\nThe symbols, gestures and myths of Hinduism were an important inspiration to the French artist Paul Gauguin, who visited Martinique in 1887.\n\nThough Indo-Martiniquais comprises approximately 10% of the population of the island of Martinique,only a few 15% of them are still Hindus..\n\nAs of 2007,Hinduism constitute 0.3% of the population of Martinique. But according to other sources it is as high as 5%.It is to be noted that the Hindus and\nquimboiseurs(another religion in Martinique) considers themselves also to be Catholic due to the lack of connection with the Hindus worldwide. Maldevidan Spiritists is a syncretic religion in Martinique which combine aspects of the Hindu religion with \nCatholicism associating the principal deity, Maldevidan(Madurai Veeran), with Jesus Christ and the second \nmost important deity, Mari-eman(Mariamman), with the Virgin Mary. This is common in the northern \nregions of the island with many shrines and gathering places throughout the region. \nRituals include playing drums, dancing on sharpened machettes, and sacrificing animals \nsuch as cocks and sheep.\n\nThe Hinduism in Martinique constitutes of a variation of popular Tamil Hinduism, which was characterized by the practice of animal sacrifice, the veneration of village deities and the use of the Tamil language as the ceremonial language, although the language has lost its usage in the plantation and post-plantation society.\n\nThe central figures of Hindus here are Hindu goddess Mariamman known locally as \"Mariémen\" and Madurai Veeran locally known as \"Madevilen\".There is a historic Hindu temple in Basse-Pointe in Martinique built in the 19th century,which is still in use.\nIn recent years there has been a revival of Hinduism in Martinique including the Hindu mela programmes.\n\n"}
{"id": "21030018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21030018", "title": "Hinduism in Wales", "text": "Hinduism in Wales\n\nHinduism in Wales is of relatively recent provenance, with under half of Welsh Hindus having settled there in the second half of the 20th century. There were 10,434 Hindus in Wales in the 2011 Census, almost double the number in the 2001 census. \nMost Welsh Hindus are of Indian origin, or at least from neighbouring countries, such as Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh. Many of these came after Idi Amin's expulsion from Uganda in the 1970s, and some also came from South Africa. There are also a few of Indonesian origin. \n\nMany of these in turn are from the Punjab. Common languages amongst them, other than English and Welsh include Punjabi, Hindi, Urdu, Gujarati and Nepali.\n\nThe Hindu Cultural Association (HCA Wales), established in March 1991, is a Registered Charity with the Charity Commission for England and Wales. It is run by the Indian community in Wales and aims to both serve the pan-Indian community as well as helping the integration of the Indian community into the wider community.\n\nSkanda Vale is a Hindu monastic centre, based in Llanpumsaint, Carmarthenshire. The site is dedicated to temple is dedicated to Lord Subramanya, and is made up of three temples. It attracts around 70,000 devotees annually. \n\nThe largest Hindu temple in Wales, the Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, is located in Grangetown, Cardiff. A Swaminarayan temple it was first opened in 1982.\n\nThe Sanatan Dharma Mandal Temple established in 1985 originally in the Parade Cardiff to serve Hindus in South Wales. Sanatan Dharma represents a code of conduct and a value system that has spiritual freedom as its core serving all Hindus within Wales and aims to offer a place of no anxiety. The temple and Hindu Community Centre is today located in the Seaview, Lewis Road, Splott, Cardiff, CF24 5EB.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "7123903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7123903", "title": "Householder (Buddhism)", "text": "Householder (Buddhism)\n\nIn English translations of Buddhist texts, householder denotes a variety of terms. Most broadly, it refers to any layperson, and most narrowly, to a wealthy and prestigious familial patriarch. In contemporary Buddhist communities, householder is often used synonymously with \"laity\", or non-monastics.\n\nThe Buddhist notion of householder is often contrasted with that of wandering ascetics (: '; Sanskrit: ') and monastics (\"bhikkhu\" and \"bhikkhuni\"), who would not live (for extended periods) in a normal house and who would pursue freedom from attachments to houses and families. \n\nUpāsakas and upāsikās, also called śrāvakas and śrāvikās - are householders and other laypersons who take refuge in the Three Jewels (the Buddha, the teachings and the community) and practice the Five Precepts. In southeast Asian communities, lay disciples also give alms to monks on their daily rounds and observe weekly uposatha days. In Buddhist thought, the cultivation of ethical conduct and dāna or \"almsgiving\" will themselves refine consciousness to such a level that rebirth in one of the lower heavens is likely even if there is no further \"Noble\" Buddhist practice (connected with the Supramundane goal of Nibbana, \"Unbinding\"). This level of attainment is viewed as a proper aim for laypersons.\n\nIn some traditional Buddhist societies, such as in Myanmar and Thailand, people transition between householder and monk and back to householder with regularity and celebration as in the practice of shinbyu among the Bamar people. One of the evolving features of Buddhism in the West is the increasing dissolution of the traditional distinction between monastics and laity.\nIn the Pāli Canon, householders received diverse advice from the Buddha and his disciples.\n\nCore householder practices include undertaking the Five Precepts and taking refuge in the Three Jewels. In addition, the canon nurtures the essential bond between householders and monastics still apparent today in southeast Asian communities.\n\nIn traditional Indian society, a householder (Sanskrit \"gṛhastin\") is typically a settled adult male with a family. In the Pali canon, various Pali words have been translated into the English word \"householder\", including agārika, gahapati, gahattha and gihin.\nVocations most often associated with householders in the Pali canon are those of guild foreman, banker and merchant (Pali, \"\") but other vocations are mentioned such as farmer and carpenter.Gombrich (2002, pp. 56–7) states:\nWho were these people in terms of class or profession? In the Canon, most of them evidently own land, but they usually have labourers to do the physical work. Sometimes they are also in business. In fact, they illustrate how it is in the first instance wealth derived from agriculture which provides business capital. The average \"gahapati\" who gave material support to the Buddha and his Sangha thus seems to have been something like a gentleman farmer, perhaps with a town house. On the other hand, inscriptions in the western Deccan, where Buddhism flourished in the early centuries CE, use the term \"gahapati\" to refer to urban merchants. We must distinguish between reference and meaning: the meaning of \"gahapati\" is simple and unvarying, but the reference shifts with the social context.\nOther people in the canon who are sometimes identified as \"householders\" in contemporary translations are simply those individuals who dwelt in a home or who had not renounced \"home life\" (Pali, \"agārasmā\") for \"homelessness\" (Pali, \"anagāriya\").\n\nWhile there is no formal \"householder discipline\" in the vinaya or \"code of ethics\", the \"Sigalovada Sutta\" (DN 31) has been referred to as \"the Vinaya of the householder\" (\"gihi-vinaya\"). This sutta includes:\n\nSimilarly, in the \"Dhammika Sutta\" (Sn 2.14), the Buddha articulates the \"layman's rule of conduct\" (Pali, \"gahatthavatta\"), as follows:\n\nThe \"Mahanama sūtra\" has been called the \"\"locus classicus\" on the definition of \"upāsaka\".\" This sutra is preserved in five versions (two in Pali, three in Chinese) representing two different recensions, one in the \"Samyuktagama/Samyuttanikaya\", the other in the \"Anguttaranikaya\" and in the \"Samyuktagama\" and further developed in the \"Abhidharmaskandha\", one of the canonical books of the Sarvastivadin Abhidharma. In this sutra the Buddha defines an upāsaka in terms of faith (\"śraddhā\"), morality (\"śīla\"), liberality (\"tyāga\"), and wisdom (\"prajñā\"), as follows:\n\nSome early schools, particularly the Sautrāntika, allowed for \"aparipūrṇa-upāsaka\" (partial lay vow holders), who took anywhere from one to four of the śīla observances.\n\nOther suttas in the canon likewise underline keeping the precepts, maintaining virtuous friends, homage to one's benefactors and earning one's wealth honestly.\n\nElsewhere in the Sutta Pitaka the Buddha provides moral instruction to householders and their family members on how to be good parents, spouses and children.\n\nBuddha's advice to Buddhist laywomen is contained mostly in the Anguttara Nikaya 8:49; IV 269-71. His advice was as follows:\n\nThe Buddha also gave advice on householders' financial matters. In the Anguttara Nikaya (4.61; II 65-68) it is said that the Buddha stated that there are four worthy ways in which to spend one's wealth:\n\nSome suttas suggest that Buddhist renunciates are best going it alone. Many others celebrate and provide instruction for a vital reciprocity between householders and monastics. For instance, in the Khuddaka Nikaya, the Buddha articulates that \"brahmins and householders\" (Pali, \"brāhmanagahapatikā\") support monks by providing monks with robes, alms food, lodgings and medicine while monks teach brahmins and householders the Dhamma. In this sutta, the Buddha declares:\n\nIn the Pali canon, the pursuit of Nibbana (Skt: \"Nirvana\") within this lifetime usually starts with giving up the householder life. This is due to the householder life's intrinsic attachments to a home, a spouse, children and the associated wealth necessary for maintaining the household. Thus, instead of advising householders to relinquish these and all attachments as a prerequisite for the complete liberation from samsara in this lifetime, the Buddha instructed householders on how to achieve \"well-being and happiness\" (\"hita-sukha\") in this and future lives in a spiritually meaningful way. \n\nIn Buddhism, a householder's spiritual path is often conceived of in terms of making merit (Pali: \"puñña\"). The primary bases for meritorious action in Buddhism are generosity (\"dāna\"), ethical conduct (\"sīla\") and mental development (\"bhāvanā\"). Traditional Buddhist practices associated with such behaviors are summarized in the table below.\n\nThe Anguttara Nikaya (AN 6.119 and AN 6.120) identifies 19 householders (\"gahapati\") who have \"attained perfection\" or, according to an alternate translation, \"attained to certainty\" (\"nihamgata\") and \"seen deathlessness, seen deathlessness with their own eyes\" (\"amataddaso, sacchikata\"). These householders are endowed (\"samannāgato\") with six things (\"chahi dhammehi\"):\n\nWhile some interpret this passage to indicate that these householders have attained arhatship, others interpret it to mean they have attained at least \"stream entry\" (sotāpanna) but not final release. The para-canonical Milinda Pañha adds:\n\nIn the Tevijjavacchagotta Sutta (MN 71 / M I.483) the Buddha is asked by the ascetic Vacchagotta \"is there any householder who, without abandoning the fetter of householdship, on the dissolution of the body has made an end to suffering?\" The Buddha replied \"there is no householder who, without abandoning the fetter of householdship, on the dissolution of the body has made an end to suffering.\" \n\nAttaining the state of anāgāmi or \"non-returner\" is portrayed in the early texts as the ideal goal for laity.\n\nThe following are examples of individuals who are explicitly identified as a \"householder\" in multiple suttas:\n\nOther individuals who are not explicitly identified in the suttas as \"householder\" but who, by the aforementioned broader criteria, might be considered a householder include:\n\nThe Sigalovada Sutta has a parallel Chinese text. There are few differences between the Pali and Chinese versions. Further discussion of householder duties is found in the fourteenth chapter of the Sutra on Upasaka Precepts.\n\nDogen recommended that householders meditate at least five minutes each day.\n\nIn the Zen tradition, Vimalakīrti and Páng Yùn were prominent householders/laypersons who achieved enlightenment.\n\nThe Vajrayana tradition has produced many prominent householders including Marpa Lotsawa, Dromtön, the heart son of Atiśa, and Padmasambhava. to mention a few.\n\nThe ngagpa (. feminine \"ngagma\", ) is an ordained Tantric practitioner, sometimes a householder with certain vows (dependent upon lama and lineage) that make them the householder equivalent of a monk or nun. The path of a ngakpa is a rigorous discipline whereby one \"enjoys the sense-fields' as a part of one's practice. A practitioner utilizes the whole of the phenomenal world as one's path. Marrying, raising children, working jobs, leisure, art, play etc. are all means to realize the enlightened state or rigpa, non-dual awareness. As such, we can see the prominence of householders in the Vajrayana tradition. One can, however, be a householder without taking the vows of a ngagpa. Simply holding the five precepts, bodhisattva vows and the tantric vows while practising diligently can result in enlightenment.\n\nBelow common contemporary lay Buddhist practices are summarized. Some of these practices — such as taking Refuge and meditating — are common to all major schools. Other practices — such as taking the Eight Precepts or the Bodhisattva Vows — are not pan-Buddhist.\n\nFor Theravada Buddhists, the following are practiced on a daily and weekly basis:\n\nDaily practice: prostrations to the Triple Gem, taking refuge in the Triple Gem, taking the Five Precepts, chanting other verses, meditating, giving and sharing (Pali: \"dana\").\n\nSpecial day practices (Uposatha): practicing the Eight Precepts, studying Buddhist scriptures,\nvisiting and supporting Buddhist monks, visiting and supporting Buddhist monasteries.\n\nOther practices: undertaking a pilgrimage.\n\nDaily practices: Prostrations to the Triple Gem, taking refuge in the Triple Gem, taking the Five Precepts, chanting sutras and the names of buddhas/bodhisattvas, meditating, cultivating compassion and bodhichitta, recitation of mantras.\n\nSpecial day practices: Upholding the eight precepts, listening to teachings, supporting Sangha, repentance, performing offering ceremonies to sentient beings\n\nOther practices: Bodhisattva vows, going on a retreat.\n\nDaily practices: Prostrations, refuge, cultivating compassion and bodhicitta, bodhisattva vows, tantric vows (if applicable), meditation in the form of Tantric sādhanās (if applicable), purification techniques, recitation of mantras\n\nSpecial day practices: Eight precepts, listening to teachings, offering ceremonies.\n\nOther practices: Studying texts, receiving initiations and personal practice instructions from the teacher.\n\n\nNote 1: gahapati is given as \"upper middle class\", see The winds of change, Himanshu P. Ray, Delhi 1994, p. 20\n\n\n"}
{"id": "92712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92712", "title": "I'noGo tied", "text": "I'noGo tied\n\nAmong some Alaska Natives, the i'noGo tied (\"house of spirits\") refers to a luck and protection amulet made from blubber encased in seal fur.\n"}
{"id": "22084470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22084470", "title": "Iowa Sisterhood", "text": "Iowa Sisterhood\n\nThe Iowa Sisterhood was a group of women ministers who organized eighteen Unitarian societies in several Midwestern states in the late 19th century and early 20th century. \n\nSome of the first women ordained in the United States were Universalist or Unitarian; however, the path for women ministers was not easy. Of those early women who achieved ordination, few were allowed to serve in full-time ministries. Others were relegated to small, struggling parishes or assistant positions alongside their clergy husbands. Despite the lack of encouragement, at the end of the 19th century a group of women claimed their role as ordained ministers. Following the Women's Ministerial Conference organized by Julia Ward Howe in 1875, 21 Unitarian women founded the Iowa Sisterhood to serve churches throughout the Great Plains.\n\nBetween 1880 and 1930, these women changed the course of Unitarianism. The Iowa Sisterhood was led primarily by Mary Augusta Safford. Other members included Eleanor Gordon, Florence Buck, Mary Collson, Eliza Tupper Wilkes, Mila Tupper Maynard, Adele Fuchs, Martha Chapman Aitken, Mary Leggett Cooke, Caroline Julia Bartlett Crane, Rowena Morse Mann, Amelia Murdoch Wing, Mary Graves, Marie Jenney Howe, Ida Hultin, Marion Murdoch, Anna Jane Norris, Margaret Titus Olmstead, Elizabeth Padgham, Gertrude Von Petzhold, Helen Wilson, Celia Parker Woolley, and Helen Grace Putnam.\n\nFew male scholars from the seminaries of the East were attracted to the life [of the Plains states]. But if the Plains were beyond the recognition of an Eastern religious hierarchy, they were also remote from that hierarchy's rules and control. It was a place where women were accepted for their willingness to step in and serve, for their tenacity in the face of hardship, and for their ministry.\n\nOne reason for the success of the Iowa Sisterhood was the non-academic, pastoral approach these women brought to their churches. They sought to make their churches extensions of the domestic hearth, thereby expanding the traditional role of women beyond the home and into the church. The Sisterhood brought family matters into the church ... seven days a week, with social events and classes on domestic arts.\n\nAlthough Jenkin Lloyd Jones, leader of the Unitarian Church's Western Conference, was a staunch ally of the Iowa Sisterhood, the success of these women and their churches did not translate into wider denominational acceptance. The women were seen as an embarrassment among the [Unitarian] clergy back in Boston. By the turn of the 20th century, society in general experienced a reassertion of male authority. Unitarianism's leaders began a concerted return to a more manly ministry in order to revitalize the denomination. The move of rural populations to the cities further undermined the Sisterhood's efforts and congregations.\n\nMost of the women ministers were rushed into retirement. Others left to pursue social justice work in peace, suffrage, and social work movements. They remained vocal about the rights of women and the place of church in society. It was not a large movement, nor was it long-lasting. The Iowa Sisterhood did not radically alter the possibilities for women in Unitarian ministry. But ... it offered an example of women called to minister and men called to support their work.\n"}
{"id": "1279575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1279575", "title": "Islam in Algeria", "text": "Islam in Algeria\n\nIslam is the majority religion in Algeria. The vast majority of citizens are Sunni Muslims belonging to Maliki school of jurisprudence, with a minority of Ibadi, most of whom live in the M'zab Valley region. Islam provides the society with its central social and cultural identity and gives most individuals their basic ethical and attitudinal orientation. Orthodox observance of the faith is much less widespread and steadfast than is identification with Islam. There are also Sufi philosophies which arose as a reaction to theoretical perspectives of some scholars.\n\nIslam was first brought to Algeria by the Umayyad dynasty following the invasion of Uqba ibn Nafi, in a drawn-out process of conquest and conversion stretching from 670 to 711. The native Berbers were rapidly converted in large numbers, although some Christian and probably pagan communities would remain at least until Almoravid times. However, as in the Middle East itself, they sought to combine their new Islam with resistance to the Caliphate's foreign rule - a niche which the Kharijite and Shiite \"heresies\" filled perfectly. By the late 8th century, most of Algeria was ruled by the Rustamids, who professed the strictly puritanical but politically moderate Ibadhi sect and saw the Caliphs as immoral usurpers. They were destroyed by the Shia Fatimids in 909, but their doctrine was re-established further south by refugees whose descendants would ultimately found the towns of the M'zab valley in the Algerian Sahara, where Ibadhism still dominates.\n\nThough it convinced the Kutama of Kabylie, the Fatimids' Ismaili doctrine remained unpopular in most of North Africa, and the Fatimids themselves abandoned Algeria for Egypt as soon as they could, leaving North Africa to a dynasty only nominally subject to them, the Zirids. With the political threat of the Abbasid Caliphate gone, these soon reverted to Sunni Islam - specifically, the Maliki branch, whose popularity had spread widely in the Maghreb. The Fatimids took their revenge by sending the Bedouin Banu Hilal to wreak havoc on the region, but were incapable of controlling it; Shiism rapidly dwindled, and became virtually non-existent in the area.\n\nThe Almohads were zealously orthodox, and under their rule Algeria gradually acquired its notable religious homogeneity. Sunni Islam and the Maliki \"madhhab\" became virtually universal, apart from the Ibadhis of the M'zab and small Jewish communities. \n\nIslam took longer to spread to the far south of Algeria, whose history is to a large extent separate: only in the 15th century were the Tuareg finally converted to Islam.\n\nDuring the Regency period, unlike the Maliki Algerian masses, the Ottoman-Algerians remained affiliated with the Hanifi school of Islamic jurisprudence. The judicial system was headed by one mufti for each of the Madhhabs represented in the Regency. Major towns had both Hanafi and Maliki mosques, while the Ibadi community had their own mosques and, especially, cemeteries. The dual Hanafi/Maliki system was maintained under French colonial regime.\n\nIn 1830, the French conquered Algiers. Their attempts to rule the rest of the country met stiff opposition, often religiously inspired: the Sufi warrior Amir Abd al-Qadir was particularly notable for his campaign to keep the French out. Even after his defeat, rebellions continued to be mounted until at least 1870, notably that of Cheikh Mokrani; again, a religious motivation was notable in most, though not all, of these.\n\nSoon after arriving in Algeria, the French colonial regime set about undermining traditional Muslim Algerian culture. By French law Muslims could not hold public meetings, carry firearms, or leave their homes or villages without permission. Legally, they were French subjects, but to become French citizens, with full rights, they had to renounce Islamic law. Few did so. The land of Islamic charitable trusts (\"habus\") was regarded as government property and confiscated. Much of the network of traditional Qur'anic schools and zaouias - regarded with suspicion as centers of potential resistance - collapsed, and the literacy rate fell.\n\nHowever, the emergence of the religious scholar and reformer Abdelhamid Ben Badis would go some way to reversing these trends. Beginning in the 1910s, he preached against the traditional marabouts and the saint cults, they believed in voodoo dolls,and urged the importance of Arabic and Islamic education; his disciples founded an extensive network of schools, and rapidly brought the saint cults into widespread disrepute, making Algerian Islam substantially more orthodox.\n\nWhile in Islam, a Muslim society subject to non-Muslim rulers is acceptable (see Qur'an)\"which verse\", the discrimination against Islam led it to be a strong element of the resistance movement to the French in the Algerian War of Independence. The independence fighters were termed \"moudjahidine\" - practicers of jihad - and its fallen are called \"chouhada\", martyrs, despite the revolution's avowed socialism; even during the revolution, the FLN made symbolic efforts to impose Islamic principles, such as banning wine and prostitution.\n\nAfter independence the Algerian government asserted state control over religious activities for purposes of national consolidation and political control. Islam became the religion of the state in the new constitution (Article 2), and was the religion of its leaders. The state monopolized the building of mosques, and the Ministry of Religious Affairs controlled an estimated 5,000 public mosques by the mid-1980s. Imams were trained, appointed, and paid by the state, and the Friday khutba, or sermon, was issued to them by the Ministry of Religious Affairs. That ministry also administered religious property (the habus), provided for religious education and training in schools, and created special institutes for Islamic learning. Islamic law (\"sharia\") principles were introduced into family law in particular, while remaining absent from most of the legal code; thus, for example, while Muslim women were banned from marrying non-Muslims (by the Algerian Family Code of 1984), wine remained legal. \n\nThose measures, however, did not satisfy everyone. As early as 1964 a militant Islamic movement, called Al Qiyam (values), emerged and became the precursor of the Islamic Salvation Front (Islamist party) of the 1990s. Al Qiyam called for a more dominant role for Islam in Algeria's legal and political systems and opposed what it saw as Western practices in the social and cultural life of Algerians. This proved to be the most difficult challenge for the immediate post-independent regimes as they tried to incorporate an Islamic national identity alongside socialist policies. Whereas the new leaders of Algeria saw Islam and Socialism as both compatible and features of Algerian culture and society; radical Islamists saw Islam as the only defining characteristic and in fact incompatible.\n\nHouari Boumediene largely contained militant Islamism during his reign, although it remained throughout the 1970s under a different name and with a new organization. Following Boumediene's death, Chadli Bendjedid became president in 1979. Chadli's regime was much more tolerant with Islamists, and with Algeria in the midst of an socio-economic crisis including unemployment and inflation, social tensions were high. Policies of Arabization (increasing Arabic education and the use of Arabic in professional institutions) had failed to come to fruition: French remained the language of the political elite and French speaking students were prioritised for jobs. Thus, the movement began spreading to university campuses where it was encouraged by the state as a counterbalance to left-wing student movements. By the 1980s, the movement had become even stronger, and bloody clashes erupted at the Ben Aknoun campus of the University of Algiers in November 1982. The violence resulted in the state's cracking down on the movement, a confrontation that would intensify throughout the 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nThe rise of Islamism had a significant impact on Algerian society. More women began wearing the veil, some because they had become more conservative religiously and others because the veil kept them from being harassed on the streets, on campuses, or at work. Islamists also prevented the enactment of a more liberal family code despite pressure from feminist groups and associations.\n\nAfter the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) won the 1991 elections, and was then banned after the elections' cancellation by the military, the tensions between Islamists and the government erupted into open fighting, which lasted some 10 years in the course of which some 100,000 people were killed. However, some Islamist parties remained aboveground - notably the Movement of Society for Peace and Islamic Renaissance Movement - and were allowed by the government to contest later elections. In recent years, the Civil Harmony Act and Charter for Peace and National Reconciliation have been passed, providing an amnesty for most crimes committed in the course of the war.\n\nSunni Islam is quasi universal, apart from the Mozabite region who are mainly Ibadhism. The dominant madhhab is Maliki. There are a few followers of the Hanafi rite among people of Turkish descent. Sufi brotherhoods have retreated considerably, but remain in some areas. Algerians have a Muslim tradition of patron saints, although it is viewed as shirk by Salafis. Sidi Abderrahmane, saint patron of Algiers, is perhaps the most notorious as numerous popular songs in Algeria mention him.\n\nThe popularity of Islamism fluctuates according to circumstance; in the 2002 elections, legal Islamist parties received some 20% of the seats in the National Assembly, way down from the FIS's 50% in 1991. Conversely, there is strong anti-Islamist sentiment from secular parties such as the RCD and the Algerian Workers Party. Support for Islamist parties is especially low in the Kabylie region, where the FIS obtained no seats in 1991, the majority being taken by the Front of Socialist Forces, another secular party.\n\nThe recent rise of a number of radical religious movements involving Ahmadism, Salafism, Shiism, Wahhabism and takfiri ideology have raised concerns among officials in the Algerian Ministry of Religious Affairs and Endowments, which has decided to take action by strengthening the monitoring and control of places targeted by the radical Islamists for recruits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2882285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2882285", "title": "Jahnu", "text": "Jahnu\n\nRishi Jahnu appears in the story of the Ganges and Bhagiratha. When the Ganges came to earth after being released from Lord Shiva's locks, her torrential waters wreaked havoc with Jahnu's fields and penance. Angered by this, the great sage drank up all of the Ganges' waters to punish her. Seeing this, the Gods prayed to the sage to release the Ganges, so that she could proceed on her mission to release the souls of the ancestors of Bhagiratha. Jahnu relented and he released the Ganges from his ear. For this, the Ganges river is also known as \"Jahnavi\", meaning \"daughter of Jahnu\". He belonged to Amavasu Dynasty and an ancestor of Vishwamitra.\nSanskrit spelling of \"Jahnavi\" (IAST) jāhnavī\nReference: http://spokensanskrit.de/index.php?script=HK&beginning=0+&tinput=jahnu+&trans=Translate&direction=AU\n"}
{"id": "7562251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7562251", "title": "Joseph Kaminetsky", "text": "Joseph Kaminetsky\n\nJoseph Kaminetsky (1911 – March 17, 1999) was an American Orthodox rabbi who became the pioneering first director of Torah Umesorah – National Society for Hebrew Day Schools of North America, based in New York City. He was directly responsible for the establishment of literally hundreds of \"yeshiva\" day schools across the United States outside of the New York Metropolitan Area.\n\nKaminetsky was born in Brooklyn, New York in 1911. At first, he attended public school for a year, but his father wanted him to attend a \"yeshiva\", and sold the family home in order to afford the tuition; they moved from East New York to Brownsville. Kaminetsky attended Yeshiva Rabbi Chaim Berlin for elementary school, and later Talmudical Academy High School on East Broadway on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.\n\nKaminetsky then became a member of the first class at Yeshiva University, graduating \"magna cum laude\" in 1932. He immediately sought to immerse himself in the area of Jewish education, becoming the principal of the afternoon school of Manhattan's prestigious Jewish Center synagogue and later its assistant rabbi under Rabbi Leo Jung, serving this post in the 1930s and 1940s. After receiving his doctorate in education from Columbia Teachers College, he became the executive director of Manhattan Day School. It was at this post that he was tapped to be a leader at Torah Umesorah. He served as educational director for two years before rising to director of the entire organization, replacing Rabbi Shraga Feivel Mendlowitz upon the latter's death in 1948.\n\nKaminetsky was seen as a true visionary by the leaders of the American Jewish community. At Kaminetsky's funeral in 1999, Rabbi Boruch Mordechai Ezrachi told a story of how, upon his first visit to America in 1973, he was in the presence of Rabbi Moshe Feinstein when Kaminetsky entered the room. He did not know who Kaminetsky was and was astonished to see Feinstein rising in respect for this unknown man. Afterward, Feinstein explained that \"this man has established Torah in America.\"\n\nFor the next 35 years, Kaminetsky traveled throughout the United States with a mission to establish a Jewish day school in every town and city across America with a Jewish population of at least 5,000. Upon retiring in 1980 at the age of 69, he moved to Jerusalem with his wife Selma.\n\nKaminetsky published his memoirs in March 1995, entitled \"Memorable Encounters: A Torah pioneer's glimpses of great men and years of challenge\".\n\nHis son, Rabbi David Kaminetsky, was principal of Manhattan Day School for a decade but left to become the national director of NCSY, a post he left in 2002.\n\nHis daughter Nechama is married to Meir Steinhardt, both of whom are involved in Jewish education. He is also survived by his son Judah and daughter Phyllis, married to Gedalya Riess. His daughter Symie is married to Rabbi Eliezer Liff, who live in Jerusalem and are similarly involved in Jewish education. His wife, Selma, died in July 2010.\n"}
{"id": "28320052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28320052", "title": "List of Hebrew Bible manuscripts", "text": "List of Hebrew Bible manuscripts\n\nA Hebrew Bible manuscript is a handwritten copy of a portion of the text of the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh) made on papyrus, parchment, or paper, and written in the Hebrew language. (Some of the Biblical text and notations may be in Aramaic.) The oldest manuscripts were written in a form of scroll, the medieval manuscripts usually were written in a form of codex. The late manuscripts written after the 9th century use the Masoretic Text. The important manuscripts are associated with Aaron ben Asher (especially Codex Leningradensis).\n\nThe original manuscripts and early copies of the Old Testament disappeared over time, because of wars, (especially the destruction of the First and Second Temples), and other intentional destructions. As a result, the lapse of time between the original manuscripts and their surviving copies is much longer than in the case of the New Testament manuscripts.\n\nThe first list of the Old Testament manuscripts in Hebrew, made by Benjamin Kennicott (1776–1780) and published by Oxford, listed 615 manuscripts from libraries in England and on the Continent. Giovanni de Rossi (1784–1788) published a list of 731 manuscripts. The main manuscript discoveries in modern times are those of the Cairo Geniza (c. 1890) and the Dead Sea Scrolls (1947). In the old synagogue in Cairo were discovered 260,000 Hebrew manuscripts, 10,000 of which are biblical manuscripts. There are more than 200 biblical manuscripts among the Dead Sea Scrolls, some of them were written in the Paleo-Hebrew alphabet. They were written before the year 70 AD. 14 scroll manuscripts were discovered in Masada in 1963–1965.\n\nThe largest organized collection of Hebrew Old Testament manuscripts in the world is housed in the Russian National Library (\"Second Firkovitch Collection\") in Saint Petersburg.\n\nCodex Leningradensis is the oldest complete manuscript of the Hebrew Bible in Hebrew. Manuscripts earlier than the 13th century are very rare. The majority of the manuscripts have survived in a fragmentary condition.\n\n\n\nDated Between 250 BC and 70 AD.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40575578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40575578", "title": "List of minor Old Testament figures, L–Z", "text": "List of minor Old Testament figures, L–Z\n\nThis list contains persons named in the Bible of minor notability, about whom either nothing or very little is known, aside from any family connections.\n\nLaadah or Ladah was a son of Shelah and a grandson of Judah. His son was Mareshah ().\n\nLael (Hebrew לָאֵל \"belonging to God\") was a member of the house of Gershon according to . He was the father of Eliasaph.\n\nLahmi, according to 1 Chronicles 20:5, was the brother of Goliath, killed by David's warrior Elhanan. See also Elhanan son of Jair.\n\n\"This entry is about the individual named Laish. For the city Dan, known also as Laish, see Dan (ancient city).\"\n\nLaish is a name which appears in 1 Samuel 25:44 and 2 Samuel 3:15, where it is the name of the father of Palti, or Paltiel, the man who was married to Saul's daughter Michal before she was returned to David.\n\nLetushim appears as a son of Dedan according to Genesis 25:3.\n\nLeummim (Hebrew לְאֻמִּים) was the third son of Dedan, son of Jokshan, son of Abraham by Keturah ().\n\nLevi (Hebrew לֵוִי) was the name of two minor figures mentioned in the Bible. For the more famous biblical character by this name, see Levi.\n\nLibni (Hebrew לִבְנִי) was a son of Gershon of the house of Levi according to and Numbers 3:18. He was born in Egypt. His descendants are referred to as the 'Libnites'.\n\nLikhi son of Shemida is listed in a genealogy of the Tribe of Manasseh. He is mentioned only in 1 Chronicles 7:19.\n\nLinus was an associate of Paul the Apostle who greeted Saint Timothy in .\n\nLo-Ammi (Hebrew for \"not my people\") was the youngest son of Hosea and Gomer. He had an older brother named Jezreel and an older sister named Lo-Ruhamah. God commanded Hosea to name him \"Lo-Ammi\" to symbolize his anger with the people of Israel (see ).\n\nLo-Ruhamah (Hebrew for \"not loved\") was the daughter of Hosea and Gomer. She had an older brother named Jezreel and a younger brother named Lo-Ammi. Her name was chosen by God to symbolize his displeasure with the people of Israel (see ).\n\nMaadai son of Bani is found in Ezra 10:34, in a list of men recorded as having married foreign women.\n\nMaadiah appears in a list of priests and Levites said to have accompanied Zerubbabel in Nehemiah 12:5.\n\nMaai (Hebrew: מָעַי) was a musician who was a relative of Zechariah, a descendant of Asaph. He is mentioned once, as part of the ceremony for the dedication of the rebuilt Jerusalem wall (), where he was part of the group that processed southwards behind Ezra. His name is omitted in the Septuagint translation of the passage, as are the names of five other relatives of Zechariah mentioned in the same verse. The name is otherwise unattested. Blenkinsopp suggests that Maai is a diminutive nickname. Mandel proposes its Hebrew origin means \"sympathetic.\"\n\nMaaseiah (Hebrew מַעֲשֵׂיָה or מַעֲשֵׂיָהוּ \"maaseyah(u)\" \"Work of God\") is the name of several men in the Hebrew Bible:\n\nHebrew for \"Worker of Jehovah\", one of the priests resident at Jerusalem at the Captivity \n\n\nHebrew for \"Clad with a mantle, or bond of the Lord\", one of the Gadite heroes who joined David in the wilderness \n\nMachbena or Machbenah, according to the only mention of him, in 1 Chronicles 2:49, was the son of Sheva the son of Caleb.\n\nMachi of the Tribe of Gad was the father of Geuel, a scout sent to Canaan prior to the crossing of the Jordan River according to .\n\nMachnadebai is mentioned in the Hebrew Bible only once, in Ezra 10:40, where the name appears in a list of people alleged to have married foreign women.\n\nMagpiash, according to Nehemiah 10:20, was one of the men who signed a covenant between God and the people of Yehud Medinata.\n\n\nMahali (also Mahli) was a son of Merari of the house of Levi according to , born in Egypt.\n\nHebrew for \"Grasping\"\n\nHeb. \"Visions\", a Kohathite Levite, chief of the twenty-third course of musicians ,\n\nMaher-shalal-hash-baz (\"Hurry to spoil!\" or \"He has made haste to the plunder!\") was the second mentioned son of the prophet Isaiah (Isaiah 8.1–4). The name is a reference to the impending plunder of Samaria and Damascus by the king of Assyria. The name is the longest personal name in the bible.\n\nMahlah is the name of two biblical persons:\n\nThe father of four sons who were inferior in wisdom only to Solomon.\n\n\"For the deity sometimes called Malcam, Malcham, or Milcom, see Moloch.\"\n\nMalcam (King James Version spelling Malcham) son of Shaharaim appears only once in the Hebrew Bible in a genealogy of the Tribe of Benjamin.\n\nMalchiel (Hebrew מַלְכִּיאֵל \"my king is God\") was a son of Beriah the son of Asher, according to and . He was one of the 70 persons to migrate to Egypt with Jacob. According to 1 Chronicles 7:31, he was the ancestor of the Malchielites, a group within the Tribe of Asher.\n\nHeb. \"King of help\", one of the four sons of Saul (). He perished along with his father and brothers in the battle of Gilboa ().\n\nMalchiah (Hebrew: מלכיהו \"malkiyahu\" \"God is my king\") son of the king (Jeremiah 38:6), owner of the pit into which Jeremiah was thrown\n\nA Kohathite Levite, one of the sons of Heman the Levite (), and chief of the nineteenth division of the temple musicians \n\n\nAccording to , Maon was a member of the clan of Caleb, the son of Shammai and the father of Beth Zur.\n\nMarsena is listed by Esther 1:14 as one of seven Persian officials working for king Ahasuerus.\n\nMash was a son of Aram according to .\n\nHebrew word meaning tribute or burden, one of the sons of Ishmael, the founder of an Arabian tribe (); a nomadic tribe inhabiting the Arabian desert toward Babylonia.\n\nMatred, according to Genesis 36:39 and 1 Chronicles 1:50, was the mother-in-law of the Edomite king Hadad II.\n\nMatri, of the Tribe of Benjamin, was an ancestor of Saul according to . Matri's clan, or the family of the Matrites, was chosen, and, from them, Saul the son of Kish was chosen to be king. The family of the Matrites is nowhere else mentioned in the Hebrew Bible; the conjecture, therefore, is that Matri is probably a corruption of Bikri, i.e. a descendant of Becher ().\n\nMattan (Mathan in the Douai-Rheims translation) was a priest of the temple of Baal in Jerusalem who was killed during the uprising against Athaliah when King Azariah's remaining son, Jehoash, was appointed king of Judah ().\n\nMattatha is a figure who appears in the Genealogy of Jesus, in the version found in the Gospel of Luke.\n\nMatthan (meaning \"gift\") was the grandfather of Saint Joseph. He is mentioned in .\n\nMatthanias is the name of two individuals in 1 Esdras, one each mentioned in 1 Esdras 9:27 and 9:31. In both passages, the parallel text in Ezra 10:26 and 10:30 contains the name Mattaniah.\n\nPossibly also translated as Matthan.\n\nMehetabeel (\"Whom God benefits\" or \"God causes good\") was the father of Delaiah, and grandfather of Shemaiah, who joined Sanballat against Nehemiah ().\n\nMehetabel (\"מהיטבאל\") (\"Whom God benefits\" or \"God causes good\") was the wife of Hadad, one of the kings of Edom ().\n\nMehir son of Chelub appears in a genealogy of the Tribe of Judah in 1 Chronicles 4:11.\n\nIn ‘\"Mehujael\"' is a descendant of Cain, the son of Irad and the father of Methushael.\nThe name means \"El (or) the god enlivens.\" \n\nFaithful, one of the eunuchs whom Ahasuerus commanded to bring in Vashti ().\n\nPersian \"مهمان signifies a stranger or guest\" \n\nMelatiah the Gibeonite is a person who, according to Nehemiah 3:7, was responsible for rebuilding a portion of the wall of Jerusalem after the end of the Babylonian captivity.\n\n\"My king\" the son of Addi, and father of Neri (), ().\n\nKing, the second of Micah's four sons ), and thus grandson of Mephibosheth. Also related to a southwest Asian god, see Melech\n\nThe son of Menan and father of Eliakim, in the genealogy of our Lord ().\n\nProbably a Persian word meaning master of wine, i.e., chief butler; the title of an officer at the Babylonian court , who had charge of the diet of the Hebrew youths.\n\nMerab was the eldest of Saul's two daughters (). She was offered in marriage to David after his victory over Goliath, but does not seem to have entered heartily into this arrangement (). She was at length, however, married to Adriel of Abel-Meholah, a town in the Jordan valley, about 10 miles south of Bethshean (Beit She'an), with whom the house of Saul maintained an alliance. She had five sons, who were all put to death by the Gibeonites on the hill of Gibeah (). Merab is also a common feminine name in Israel.\n\nA chief priest, a contemporary of the high priest Joiakim (Neh 12:12).\n\n\nA priest who returned from Babylon with Zerubbabel (), to whom were sent the sacred vessels () belonging to the temple. He took part in rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem (Neh 3:4).\n\nMeres is listed in Esther 1:14 as one of seven officials in the service of Ahasuerus.\n\n(),(), elsewhere called Mephibosheth (), the son of Jonathan.\n\nA Levite of the family of the Korhites, called also Shelemiah (),() He was a temple gate-keeper in the time of David.\n\nMeshillemoth (in one case spelled Meshillemith) is the name of two figures in the Hebrew Bible.\n\nMeshullam was the name of eleven biblical individuals. (\"See Meshullam.\")\n\nThe wife of King Manasseh of Judah, and the mother of King Amon of Judah ().\n\nIn Methushael is a descendant of Cain, the son of Mehujael and the father of Lamech.\n\nThe father of Matred (),(), and grandfather of Mehetabel, wife of Hadar, the last king of Edom.\n\n\"See Mijamin.\"\n\nA Hagarene, one of David's warriors (); called also Bani the Gadite ().\n\n\nMichael (is the masculine given name that comes from Hebrew: מִיכָאֵל / מיכאל (\"Mīkhāʼēl\", pronounced ]), derived from the question מי כאל \"mī kāʼēl\", meaning \"Who is like God?\") of the house of Asher was the father of Sethur, a scout sent to Canaan prior to the crossing of the Jordan River according to .\n\nMichaiah (Hebrew: מיכיה Mikayah \"Who is like Yah?\") is the name of at least two biblical figures:\n\n\"Prize of Jehovah\" or \"Selling\", a Benjamite, the father of Uzzi ().\n\nMijamin (also spelled Miamin, Miniamin, Minjamin) (\"from the right hand\") is the name of three persons mentioned in the Bible:\n\n\nA Levitical musician () who took part in the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem.\n\n\"See Mijamin.\"\n\n\"See Minjamin.\"\n\nHebrew (מִישָׁאֵל ‘Who is like Yahweh’)\nThis was the name of two biblical men.\n\nMishael was a son of Uzziel of the house of Levi according to , born in Egypt. He was a nephew of Amram and a cousin of Aaron, Miriam, and Moses.\nHe and Elzaphan were asked by Moses to carry away Nadab’s and Abihu’s bodies to a place outside the camp. ()\n\nMishael was one of the three Hebrew youths who were trained with Daniel in Babylon (Dan. 1:11, 19). He and his companions were cast into and miraculously delivered from the fiery furnace for refusing to worship the king's idol (3:13–30). Mishael's Babylonian name was Meshach.\n\nMisma, son of Simeon\n\n(Hebrew מִשְׁמַנָּה) one of the Gadite heroes who gathered to David at Ziklag ().\n\n(; ; ) The Hebrew form of the Persian name Mithridates.\n\nA Christian of Jerusalem with whom Paul lodged (). He was apparently a native of Cyprus, like Barnabas (), and was well known to the Christians of Caesarea (). He was an \"old disciple\" (R.V., \"early disciple\"), i.e., he had become a Christian in the beginning of the formation of the Church in Jerusalem.\n\nMoab was the son of Lot and his eldest daughter. He became the father of the Moabites (see ).\n\n\n\nMuppim (Hebrew מֻפִּים) or Shuphim was the eighth son of Benjamin in Genesis 46:21 and Numbers 26:39.\n\nMushi (Hebrew מוּשִׁי) was a son of Merari of the house of Levi according to , born in Egypt.\n\nNaman is the fifth son of Benjamin in Genesis 46:21 but his grandson according to Numeri 26:38 and\nNaboth was a minor figure known for owning a vineyard that king Ahab wished to have for himself. When Naboth was unwilling to give up the vineyard, Ahab's wife Jezebel instigated a plot to have Naboth killed. See .\n\nNaggai (King James Version spelling Nagge) is the name of a figure found in the genealogy of Jesus according to the Gospel of Luke.\n\nNaharai (or Nahari) the Beerothite is listed in 2 Samuel 23:37 and 1 Chronicles 11:39 as one of David's Mighty Warriors.\n\nNahath is the name of three figures who appear in the Hebrew Bible.\n\nNahbi, the son of Vophsi of the house of Naphtali, was a scout sent to Canaan prior to the crossing of the Jordan River according to .\n\nNahum, in addition to being the name of the well-known biblical prophet Nahum, is also the name of a figure mentioned in passing in Luke's version of the genealogy of Jesus. The Nahum of Luke has his name spelled Naum in the King James Version.\n\nNaphish (once Nephish in the King James Version) is the name given by the Bible to one of the sons of Ishmael, and to an Ishmaelite tribe.\n\nNaphtuhim is a son of Mizraim and grandson of Ham first mentioned in Genesis 10:13.\n\nNarcissus is mentioned briefly in Romans 16:11, which sends greetings to \"Those of the household of Narcissus who are in the Lord.\" Beyond this brief reference, nothing more is known for certain of the person referred to.\n\n\"See Nahum.\"\n\n\"Neariah\" is the name of two biblical individuals. Neariah the son of Shemaiah, was a descendant of David, and father of Elionenai (1 Chronicles 3:22). The other Neariah was, according to Chronicles, a leader in the Tribe of Simeon (1 Chronicles 4:42).\n\nNebat (Hebrew: נבט \"nebat\" \"Sprout\", Douay-Rheims: Nabat), an Ephrathite of Zereda, was the father of King Jeroboam.\n\nNebuzaradan (the biblical form of his name, derived from the Babylonian form \"Nabu-zar-iddin\", meaning \"Nabu has given a seed\") was the captain of Nebuchadnezzar's bodyguard, according to the Bible. He is mentioned in 2 Kings 25:8, 11, 20; Jeremiah 52:30; Jeremiah 39:11, 40:2, 5.\n\nNedabiah, according to 1 Chronicles 3:18, was one of the sons of king Jeconiah.\n\n\"See Rehum.\"\n\nNehushta was the wife of King Jehoiakim and daughter of Elnathan ben Achbor of Jerusalem, according . She was also the mother of King Jehoiachin.\n\nNekoda was the ancestor of 652 Jews who returned from Babylonia with Ezra, but were declared ineligible to serve as Kohanim (priests) because they could not prove that their ancestors had been Kohanim. This is recounted in and in , where the number of men is given as 642.\n\nNemuel was the name of two individuals mentioned in the Bible:\n\nNepheg was the name of two men mentioned in the Bible:\n\n\"See Naphish.\"\n\nNer (Hebrew: \"Candle\") was an uncle of Saul and the father of Abner according to .\n\nNereus was a Christian mentioned with his unnamed sister in with other saints to whom Paul the Apostle sent greetings and salutations.\n\nNobah, of the Tribe of Manasseh defeated the Amorites, took the villages of Kenath and renamed it Nobah according to .\n\nNogah, a son of David, appears in two lists of David's sons: 1 Chronicles 3:7 and 1 Chronicles 14:6.\n\n\"Obadiah\" was a descendant of David, father of Sheconiah, and son of Arnan\n\nObal, also Ebal, was a son of Joktan according to , .\n\nObil was an Ishmaelite, a keeper of camels in the time of David, according to .\n\nOcran was a member of the house of Asher according to . He was the father of Pagiel.\n\nOn, the son of Peleth, of the Tribe of Reuben, was a participant in Korah’s rebellion against Moses according to . On is referred to as \"Hon\" in the Douai Bible translation. He is mentioned alongside Korah, Dathan and Abiram as the instigators of the rebellion, but not referred to later when Korah, Dathan and Abiram were challenged and punished for their rebellion.\n\nOphir was a son of Joktan according to , .\n\nOzem is a Hebrew name which applies to two people in the Bible.\n\n\"See Ezbon above.\"\n\nPagiel (Hebrew פַּגְעִיאֵל) was a son of Ocran, a prince of the house of Asher and one of the leaders of the tribes of Israel, according to .\n\n\"This is about the Palti mentioned in Numbers. For the other biblical Palti, see Palti, son of Laish.\"\n\nPalti, the son of Raphu of the house of Benjamin, was a scout sent to Canaan prior to the crossing of the Jordan River according to .\n\n\"This is about the Paltiel in the Book of Numbers. For the other Paltiel, see Palti, son of Laish.\"\n\nPaltiel (Hebrew פַּלְטִיאֵל \"delivered by God\") was a prince of the tribe of Issachar, one of those appointed by Moses to superintend the division of Canaan among his tribe ().\n\nParmashta appears briefly in Esther 9:9, where he is listed as one of the ten sons of Haman, who is the primary antagonist of the Book of Esther because of his desire to wipe out the Jews.\n\nParnach was the father of Elizaphan, a prince of the Tribe of Zebulun. ().\n\nParshandatha was one of the ten sons of Haman. He was killed by a Jew or Jews (the Bible is unclear) and Esther had his corpse impaled (see ).\n\nParuah is the name of a figure indirectly mentioned once in the Bible, in 1 Kings 4:17. In a passage which gives names of governors working under Solomon, a \"Jehoshaphat son of Peruah\" is credited with governing the territory of the Tribe of Issachar.\n\nPaseah is the name of two figures in the Hebrew Bible. In a genealogy of Judah, a Paseah appears (1 Chronicles 4:12) as the son of Eshton, the son of Mehir, the son of Chelub. Another Paseah is mentioned indirectly (Nehemiah 3:6) by way of his son Jehoiada, a repairer of a section of the wall of Jerusalem.\n\nPedahel Prince of the tribe of Naphtali; one of those appointed by Moses to superintend the division of Canaan amongst the tribe ().\n\nPedahzur was a member of the house of Manasseh according to . He was the father of Gamaliel.\n\nPelaiah is the name of two biblical figures. In 1 Chronicles 3:23, a Pelaiah appears in a genealogy. He is listed as one of the sons of Elioenai, the son of Neariah, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Shechaniah. The other Pelaiah appears in Nehemiah (8:7; 10:10) as a Levite who helped to explain biblical law to the inhabitants of Yehud Medinata and signed a document against intermarriage between Jews and non-Jews.\n\nPelaliah (Hebrew \"Pĕlalyāh\") is a figure mentioned only indirectly and in passing in Nehemiah 11:12, which lists a descendant of his as a priestly leader in Jerusalem. The descendant is specified as \"Adaiah son of Jeroham son of Pelaliah son of Amzi son of Zechariah son of Pashhur son of Malchiah.\"\n\nPelatiah (Hebrew: פלטיהו \"Pelatyahu\" Ezekiel 11:1) son of Benaiah, a prince of the people, among the 25 Ezekiel saw at the East Gate; he fell dead upon hearing the prophecy regarding Jerusalem.\n\nPeleth, of the Tribe of Reuben, was the father of On, a participant in Korah's rebellion against Moses according to .\n\nAccording to 1 Chronicles 7:16, Peresh was the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.\n\nPethahiah is the name of two individuals named in the Bible.\nIn addition to these individuals, Pethahiah was the eponym of one of the biblical priestly divisions.\n\nPethuel, the father of Joel, in .\n\nPeulthai, according to 1 Chronicles 26:5, was the eighth of Obed-edom's eight sons. The passage in which they are listed records gatekeepers of the temple at Jerusalem.\n\nPhallu or Pallu was a son of Reuben according to , and . He was one of the 70 souls to migrate to Egypt with Jacob.\n\n\"For the individual called \"Phalti\" in the King James Bible, see Palti, son of Laish.\"\n\n\"For the individual called \"Paltiel\" in the King James Bible, see Palti, son of Laish.\"\n\nPhurah was a servant of Gideon in . Gideon takes Phurah with him to spy on the Midianites before battle.\n\nPhuvah or Pua was a son of Issachar according to and . He was one of the 70 souls to migrate to Egypt with Jacob.\n\nPildash was the son of Nahor and Milcah ().\n\nPinon is listed as one of the \"chiefs\" of Edom, in Genesis 36:41, and, in a copy of the same list, in 1 Chronicles 1:52.\n\nPiram, according to Judges 10:3, was the king of Jarmuth.\n\nPoratha, according to Esther 9:8, was one of the ten sons of Haman, the antagonist of the Book of Esther who attempted to wipe out the Jewish people.\n\nPul was an abbreviation for the Assyrian king Tiglath-Pileser III. Pul attacked Israel in the reign of Menahem and extracted tribute. II Kings 15:19\n\nPutiel was the father of Eleazar's wife according to . According to Rashi this was another name of Jethro.\n\nRaamiah (Hebrew רַעַמְיָה) is one of the princes who returned from the Exile (Neh. 7:7). He is also called Reelaiah in Ezra 2:2.\n\nRabmag (Hebrew רַב־מָג) is the name of two figures in the Bible:\n\nRaddai, according to 1 Chronicles 2:14, was one of the brother of King David.\n\n\"See Rekem.\"\n\nRamiah, according to Ezra 10:25, was an Israelite layperson, a member of the group named \"sons of Parosh\", who was guilty of marrying a foreign woman.\n\nRapha, according to the Septuagint version of 2 Samuel 21:16, was the parent of Jesbi, the name in that version for the giant referred to in the Massoretic text as Ishbi-benob.\n\nRegem is named in 1 Chronicles 2:47 as one of the sons of Jahdai, a figure who appears in a genealogy associated with Caleb.\n\nA figure called Regem-melech, along with a \"Sharezer\", came, according to some interpretations of Zechariah 7:2, to Bethel to ask a question about fasts. It is unclear whether the name is intended as a title or as a proper name. The grammar of the verse is difficult and several interpretations have been proposed.\n\nRehabiah is a figure mentioned three times in the Hebrew Bible, as the ancestor of a group of Levites. He is identified as the son of Eliezer the son of Moses (1 Chronicles 23:17; 26:25). Chronicles identifies his as the father of a person named Isshiah (Hebrew \"Yiššiyāh\", 1 Chronicles 24:21) or Jeshaiah (Hebrew \"Yĕshaʿyāhû\", 1 Chronicles 26:25).\n\nRehum is the name of four or five biblical figures.\n\nRephaiah (Hebrew רְפָיָה \"the Lord has healed\"), a descendant of David was the father of Arnan and the son of Jeshaiah.\n\nRaphu of the house of Benjamin was the father of Palti, a scout sent to Canaan prior to the crossing of the Jordan River according to .\n\nReba was one of five Midianite kings killed during the time of Moses by an Israelite expedition led by Phinehas, son of Eleazar according to and .\n\n\"This is about individuals in the Bible named Rekem. For the city by that name, see List of minor biblical places § Rekem.\"\n\nRekem is a personal name used several times in the Hebrew Bible, for more than one individual.\n\nIn , Rephael () was one of Shemaiah's sons. He and his brethren, on account of their \"strength for service,\" formed one of the divisions of the temple porters.\n\nReumah, according to Genesis 22:24, was the concubine of Abraham's brother Nahor, and the mother of his children Tebah, Gaham, Tahash, and Maachah.\n\nAccording to I Kings 11:23– Rezon (Hebrew: רזון \"Rezon\") became regent in Damascus and was an adversary of Solomon.\n\nRibai, a Benjamite of Gibeah, was the father of Ittai, one of King David's Warriors (, ).\n\nRinnah appears once in the Bible, as the son of a man named Shimon (1 Chronicles 4:20) in a genealogy of Tribe of Judah. Neither Shimon's origin nor precise relationship to Judah is given.\n\nRohgah or Rohagah is a name which appears in 1 Chronicles 7:34, where Rohgah is named as one of the sons of Shamer (the vocalization found in v. 34) or Shomer (the vocalization found in v. 32), who is identified as the son of Heber, the son of Beriah, the son of the tribal patriarch Asher.\n\nRomamti-ezer is the name of a figure who appears twice in the Hebrew Bible, both times in 1 Chronicles 25. In verse 4 he is identified as one of the fourteen sons of Heman, one of three men who according to Chronicles were assigned to be in charge of musical worship in the Temple of Jerusalem. Later in the chapter, 288 assigned to the musical service are divided into twenty-four groups of twelve. The twenty-fourth group is assigned to Romamti-ezer (verse 31).\n\nHebrew: ראש \"rosh\" \"Head\"\n\nRosh is the seventh of the ten sons of Benjamin named in Genesis .\n\nA nation named Rosh is also possibly mentioned in Ezekiel 38:2–3, 39:1 \"Son of man, set your face toward Gog, the land of Magog, the prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal; and prophesy concerning him.\" This translation \"Rosh\" is found in NASB but not in KJV and most modern versions. Also in a variant reading of Isaiah 66:19 (MT) and the Septuagint Jeremiah 32:23. Most scholars see this as a mistranslation of נְשִׂ֕יא רֹ֖אשׁ, \"nesi ro’š\" (\"chief prince\"), rather than a toponym.\n\nSabtah was a son of Cush according to , .\n\nSabtechah was a son of Cush according to , .\n\nSachar (sometimes spelled Sacar or Sakar) was the name of two individuals mentioned in the Bible:\n\nSachia (also Sakia) appears only in 1 Chronicles 8:10, where he is listed as one of the \"sons\" of Shaharaim. The King James Version spells the name Shachia.\n\nSalu, of the house of Simeon, was the father of Zimri who was involved in the Heresy of Peor according to .\n\nSaph is a figure briefly mentioned in a section of 2 Samuel which discusses four \"yelide haraphah\" killed by Israelites. According to 2 Samuel 21:18, a war broke out between Israel and the Philistines. During the battle, Sibbecai the Hushathite, one of David's Mighty Warriors, killed Saph, who was one of the four. The expression \"yelide haraphah\" is rendered several different ways in translations of the Bible: \"the descendants of Rapha\" (NIV, NLT), \"the descendants of the giants\" (ESV, NLT), \"the descendants of the giant\" (NASB, Holman), and \"the sons of the giant\" (KJV, ASV). While most interpreters the phrase as a statement about the ancestry of the four people killed, describing them as descended from giants, another interpretation takes the phrase as meaning \"votaries of Rapha,\" in reference to a deity by that name to which a group of warriors would have been associated.\n\nSarsekim or Sarsechim is a name or title, or a portion of a name or title, which appears in Jeremiah 39:3. Jeremiah describes describes Babylonian officials, some named and the rest unnamed, who according to the text sat down \"in the middle gate\" of Jerusalem during its destruction in 587 or 586 BCE. The portion which explicitly gives the names and/or titles of the officials reads, in Hebrew, \"nrgl śr ʾṣr smgr nbw śr skym rb srys nrgl śr ʾṣr rb-mg\". Various interpretations have divided the names in various ways. The King James Version, sticking closely to the grammatical indicators added to the text by the Masoretes during the Middle Ages, reads this as indicating six figures: \"Nergalsharezer, Samgarnebo, Sarsechim, Rabsaris, Nergalsharezer, Rabmag\". The New International Version sees three characters \"Nergal-Sharezer of Samgar, Nebo-Sarsekim a chief officer, Nergal-Sharezer a high official.\" Versions featuring these three figures, with variations in the exact details of translations, include NLT and ESV. Four figures appear in the New American Standard Bible, \"Nergal-sar-ezer, Samgar-nebu, Sar-sekim the Rab-saris, Nergal-sar-ezer the Rab-mag.\"\n\nIn 2007, a Babylonian Tablet was deciphered containing a reference to a \"Nabu-sharussu-ukin,\" identified as referring to the biblical figure. See Nebo-Sarsekim Tablet.\n\nSeba was a son of Cush according to , .\n\nSegub is the name of two biblical figures.\n\nAccording to 1 Chronicles 2:1–30, in the genealogical section which begins the book of Chronicles, Seled, who died childless, was the brother of Appaim and son of Nadab, the son of Shammai, the son of Onam, the son of Jerahmeel, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah, the eponymous founder of the Tribe of Judah.\n\nSemachiah (or Semakiah) is the name of a figure who appears in 1 Chronicles 26:7, in a genealogical passage concerning gatekeepers of the Jerusalem Temple. Semachiah is described as a son of Shemaiah, a son of Obed-Edom.\n\nSered was a son of Zebulun according to and . He was one of the 70 souls to migrate to Egypt with Jacob. According to the verse in Numbers, he was the eponymous forefather of the clan of Sardites.\n\nSethur, the son of Michael of the house of Asher, was a scout sent to Canaan prior to the crossing of the Jordan River according to .\n\nShaaph is a name which appears in the second chapter of 1 Chronicles. In one translation, these verses read as follows: \"And the sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jotham, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph. Maacah, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah. And [the wife of] Shaaph the father of Madmannah bore Sheva the father of Machbenah and the father of Gibea. And the daughter of Caleb was Achsah\" (1 Chronicles 2:47–49).\n\nThe words [the wife of] do not occur in the Hebrew text, which reads literally, as Sara Japhet translates it, \"And Shaaph the father of Madmannah bore Sheva . . .\" but with a feminine form (\"watteled\") of the verb \"bore,\" rather than the expected masculine form \"wayyoled.\" Japhet outlines several possibilities as to how the text may originally have read.\n\nShaashgaz is a name which appears in the Hebrew Bible only in Esther 2:14, where it is given as the name of the eunuch who was in charge of the \"second house of the women.\"\n\nShabbethai, a Levite who helped Ezra in the matter of the foreign marriages (), probably the one present at Ezra's reading of the law (), and possibly the Levite chief and overseer (). The name might mean \"one born on Sabbath\", but more probably is a modification of the ethnic Zephathi (Zephathite), from Zarephathi (Zarephathite). Meshullam and Jozabad, with which Shabbethai's name is combined, both originate in ethnic names. (Encyclopaedia Biblica)\n\nShagee (also spelled Shage or Shageh) is a figure who appears, indirectly, in one version of the list of David's Mighty Warriors.\n\nIn 1 Chronicles 11:34, a figure appears who is called \"Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite.\" In 2 Samuel 23:32–33, the name \"Jonathan\" appears directly before the name \"Shammah the Harodite,\" while in 2 Samuel 23:11 is found \"Shammah the son of Agee the Hararite,\" who is the subject of a very brief story in which he fights with Philistines. The exact sort of copying error or deliberate abbreviation that may have led to this state of affairs is uncertain.\n\nShaharaim was a member of the house of Benjamin. He had three wives, Hushim, Baara, and Hodesh, according to .\n\n\"See Shemed.\"\n\nShamhuth the Izrahite (Hebrew, \"Shamhut ha-Yizrah\") is a figure mentioned in passing in 1 Chronicles 27:8. The 27th chapter of 1 Chronicles gives the names of people who, according to the Chronicler, were in charge of 24,000-man divisions of David's military, each of which was on active duty for a month. Shamhuth was the commander for the fifth month of each year.\n\n\"This is about the individual named Shamir. For the biblical place-name Shamir, see List of minor biblical places § Shamir.\"\n\nShamir is the name of an individual who appears in a list of Levite names (1 Chronicles 24:24).\n\n\"See Shammah for several figures by this name.\"\n\nAccording to 1 Chronicles 11:27, Shammoth the Harorite was one of David's Mighty Warriors. An entry in the corresponding list in Samuel contains Shammah the Harodite (2 Samuel 23:25). See Shammah.\n\nThere are four individuals by the name of \"Shammua\" in the Hebrew Bible:\n\nShamsherai is mentioned once, in passing, in a long list of the \"sons of Elpaal\" within a genealogy of the Tribe of Benjamin (1 Chronicles 8:26).\n\nA figure named Shapham is mentioned in passing once in the Hebrew Bible, in a list of Gadites (1 Chronicles 5:12).\n\nShaphat, the son of Hori of the house of Simeon, was a scout sent to Canaan prior to the crossing of the Jordan River according to .\n\nAlso the name of one of King David's sons by Bathsheba.\n\nA Sharai is mentioned once in the Bible, in passing, in a list of the \"sons of Bani\" (Ezra 10:40).\n\nA Sharar is mentioned indirectly in 2 Samuel 23:33, where \"Ahiam the son of Sharar the Hararite\" is listed as one of David's Mighty Warriors. In 1 Chronicles 11:35, the same figure is referred to as Sacar (sometimes spelled Sakar or Sachar).\n\nSharezer, according to 2 Kings 19:37 and Isaiah 37:38, was one of the two sons of Sennacherib. He and his brother Adrammelech killed their father as he worshipped in the temple of Nisroch.\n\nA Shashai is listed in the Book of Ezra as a man who married a foreign wife (Ezra 10:40).\n\nSheariah, according to 1 Chronicles 8, was a descendant of King Saul, specifically one of the six sons of Azel (1 Chronicles 8:38), the son of Eleasah, the son of Raphah, the son of Binea, the son of Moza (v. 37), the son of Zimri, the son of Jehoaddah, the son of Ahaz (36), the son of Micah (35), the son of Merib-baal, the son of Jonathan (34), the son of Saul (33). He is also mentioned 1 Chronicles 9, which substantially repeats the same genealogy, except that chapter 9 reads \"Rephaiah\" instead of Raphah (v. 43) and \"Jadah\" instead of Jehoaddah (42).\n\nShearjashub was the first-mentioned son of Isaiah according to .\nHis name means \"the remnant shall return\" and was prophetic; offering hope to the people of Israel, that although they were going to be sent into exile, and their temple destroyed, God remained faithful and would deliver \"a remnant\" from Babylon and bring them back to their land.\n\nSheconiah was a descendant of David, father of Shemaiah, and son of Obadiah.\n\nShechem was the name of two individuals mentioned in the Bible:\n\nShedeur was a member of the house of Reuben according to . He was the father of Elizur.\n\nShelemiah (Hebrew: שלמיהו) the son of Abdeel, along with two others, was commanded by king Jehoiakim to arrest Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet Jeremiah (36:25).\n\nShelomi was the father of Ahihud, a prince of the Tribe of Asher. ().\n\nShelumiel (Hebrew: שלמיאל) was a son of Zurishaddai, a prince of the tribe of Simeon and one of the leaders of the tribes of Israel, according to .\n\nShelomith was a daughter of Dibri of the house of Dan, according to . She was married to an Egyptian and her son (unnamed) was stoned to death by the people of Israel for blasphemy, following Moses' issue of a ruling on the penalty to be applied for blasphemy.\n\n\"See List of people in the Hebrew Bible called Shemaiah\"\n\nShemariah is the name of four biblical figures.\n\nIn 1 Chronicles 12:5, Shemariah is a Benjamite, one of David's soldiers.\n\nIn 2 Chronicles 11:19, Shemariah is one of the sons of Rehoboam, spelled Shamariah in the King James Version.\n\nIn Ezra 10:32, Shemariah is one of the \"sons of Harim,\" in a list of men who took foreign wives. Another Shemariah, one of the \"descendants of Bani\", appears in verse 41.\n\nShemeber is the king of Zeboiim in who joins other Canaanite city kings in rebelling against Chedorlaomer.\n\nShemed, spelled Shamed in the King James Version, is a figure briefly listed in 1 Chronicles 8:12 as one of the sons of Elpaal, the son of Shaharaim. He and his two brothers are referred to as \"Eber, and Misham, and Shamed, who built Ono, and Lod, with the towns thereof\" (1 Chronicles 8:12).\n\nShemer (Hebrew: שמר \"Shemer\" \"guardian\") is the name of three biblical figures.\n\nAccording to Kings, Shemer was the name of the man from whom Omri, King of Israel, bought Samaria (Hebrew \"Shomron\"), which he named after Shemer.\n\nAccording to 1 Chronicles, one of the Levites involved in the musical ministry of the Jerusalem temple was \"Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah, the son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shemer, the son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi\" (1 Chronicles 6:44–47). In this passage, the King James Version spells the name Shamer.\n\n1 Chronicles 7:34 mentions a Shemer as one of the descendants of the Tribe of Asher. In verse 32, this figure is called Shomer, and is the son of Heber, the son of Beriah, the son of Asher.\n\nShemida was a son of Manasseh according to , , and .\n\nShemuel Prince of the tribe of Simeon; one of those appointed by Moses to superintend the division of Canaan amongst the tribe ().\n\nShephatiah (Hebrew שפטיה) is the name of at least two Hebrew Bible men:\n\nSheshan is the name of one, or possibly two, biblical characters mentioned in the first book of Chronicles:\n\nShillem was a son of Naphtali according to and . He was one of the 70 souls to migrate to Egypt with Jacob.\n\nThe name Shimeah is used for two figures in the Hebrew Bible.\n\nShimi was a son of Gershon of the house of Levi according to . He was born in Egypt.\n\nShimron was a son of Issachar according to , and 1 Chronicles 7:1. He was one of the 70 souls to migrate to Egypt with Jacob.\n\nShimshai was a scribe who was represented the peoples listed in Ezra 4:9–10 in a letter to King Artaxerxes.\n\nShinab is the king of Admah in who joins other Canaanite city kings in rebelling against Chedorlaomer.\n\nShiphtan was the father of Kemuel, a prince of the Tribe of Ephraim. ().\n\nShisha (Hebrew – שישא) was the father of Elihoreph and Ahijah, who were scribes of King Solomon (1 Kings 4:3).\n\nShobab is the name of two figures in the Hebrew Bible.\n\nShobal was a Horite chief in the hill country of Seir during the days of Esau. He was a son of Seir the Horite, and his sons were Alvas, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho and Onam. He is mentioned in .\n\nShuni was a son of Gad according to and . He was one of the 70 persons to migrate to Egypt with Jacob.\n\nShuthelah was a son of Ephraim according to and .\n\nSimon Iscariot was the father of Judas Iscariot (see , , and ).\n\nSodi of the house of Zebulun was the father of Gaddiel, a scout sent to Canaan prior to the crossing of the Jordan River according to .\n\nStachys was a \"dear friend\" of Paul the Apostle whom he told the church in Rome to greet (see ).\n\nSusi of the house of Manasseh was the father of Gaddi, a scout sent to Canaan prior to the crossing of the Jordan River according to .\n\nTahan was a son of Ephraim according to and .\n\nTaphath (Hebrew טפת, \"Drop\") was a daughter of Solomon and wife of one of her father's twelve regional administrators, the son of Abinadab (First Kings 4:11).\n\nTola () was the name of two individuals mentioned in the Bible:\n\nTryphosa was a Christian mentioned in with other saints to whom Paul the apostle sent greetings and salutations.\n\nTyrannus was the operator of a school in Ephesus which the apostle Paul used as a base according to \n\nIn : \"Of the sons of Bani; Maadai, Amram, and Uel.\"\n\nUri is mentioned 7 times, 6 of which indicate that another figure is the \"son of Uri\". The meaning of the name in English is \"my light\", \"my flame\" or \"illumination\".\n\nUriah ben Shemaiah is mentioned in Jeremiah 26:20–23 as a minor prophet from Kiriath-Jearim who 'spoke in the name of the Lord against this city and nation just as Jeremiah did'. King Jehoiakim heard about his activities, and tried to kill him, but Uriah fled to Egypt 'in terror'. Elnathan son of Achbor was sent to return him, and Jehoiakim had him killed when he was brought back to Judah.\n\nUrijah (Hebrew: אוריה \"uriyah\") a priest in the time of King Ahaz of Judah, built an altar at the temple in Jerusalem on the Damascene model for Tiglathpileser, king of Assyria. II Kings 16:10–16\n\nVaizatha (or Vajezatha; Hebrew: וַיְזָתָא) is one of the ten sons of Persian vizier Haman, mentioned in . Haman had planned to kill all the Jews living under the reign of King Ahasuerus, but his plot was foiled. In their defence, the Jews killed 500 men in the citadel of Susa, as well as Vaizatha and his nine brothers: this event is remembered in the Jewish festival Purim. Walther Hinz has proposed that the name is a rendering of an Old Iranian name, Vahyazzāta, which itself is derived from Vahyaz-dāta (\"given from the best one\"), as found in Aramaic, Elamite, and Akkadian sources.\n\nVaniah, meaning nourishment, or weapons, of the Lord; one of many sons of Bani named in .\n\nVophsi of the house of Naphtali was the father of Nahbi, a scout sent to Canaan prior to the crossing of the Jordan River according to .\n\nZaavan (za'-a-van or za'-awan), son of Ezer, was a Horite chief in the Land of Edom. (, )\n\nZabad is the name of seven men in the Hebrew Bible.\n\nZabdi, son of Zerah, of the Tribe of Judah, was the father of Carmi and the grandfather of Achan, according to . He was present at the Battle of Jericho.\n\nZabud (Hebrew – זבוד, zābud, meaning “endowed.”) was a priest and friend of King Solomon, according to . He is described as the \"son of Nathan,\" but it is unclear whether this is Nathan the prophet or Nathan the son of David. As a \"friend\" of the king, he probably served the function of a counselor.\n\nZaccur of the house of Reuben was the father of Shammua, a scout sent to Canaan prior to the crossing of the Jordan River according to .\n\nZalmon the Ahohite, according to 2 Samuel 23:28 in the Masoretic Text, is listed as one of David's Mighty Warriors. In the Masoretic Text of 1 Chronicles 11:29, in another copy of the same list of warriors, he is called \"Ilai the Ahohite.\" Where the Masoretic Text has \"Zalmon,\" various manuscripts of the Greek Septuagint have \"Ellon,\" \"Sellom,\" or \"Eliman.\" And where the Masoretic Text has \"Ilai,\" the Septuagint reads \"Elei,\" \"Eli,\" or \"Ela.\"\n\nZebadiah (cf. Zebedee) may refer to:\n\n\nZephaniah (Hebrew צפניה, pronounced \"TsePhNiYaH\") was the name of at least two people in the Bible:\n\n\"See Ziphion.\"\n\n\"See Zohar.\"\n\n\"See Izri.\"\n\nZeror, son of Bechorath, of the tribe of Benjamin, was the great-grandfather of King Saul and of his commander Abner. According to Saul, his family was the least of the tribe of Benjamin. ()\n\nZichri was a son of Izhar of the house of Levi according to , born in Egypt. He was a nephew of Amram and a cousin of Aaron, Miriam, and Moses.\n\nZidkijah is mentioned in chapter 10 of Nehemiah.\n\nIn Zillah is a wife of Lamech and the mother of Tubal-cain and Naamah.\n\nIn , Ziphah (zī´fe) is mentioned as a son of Jehaleleel, a descendant of Judah.\n\nZippor was the father of Balak, the king of Moab, in Numbers 22\n\nZiphion or Zephon is a son of Gad (), and was the progenitor of the Zephonites (). There may be a connection with the angel Zephon.\n\nIn , Zithri (\"the Lord protects\"), a Levite, was the son of Uzziel.\n\nZiza (or Zizah) was a Gershonite, the second son of Shimei (1 Chronicles 23:10–11). The spelling is according to the Septuagint; most Hebrew manuscripts have Zina.\n\nZobebah (also known as Hazzobebah) was a son of Koz (1 Chronicles 4:8).\n\n\"For the Zohar found in a variant reading of 1 Chronicles 4:7, see Izhar.\"\n\nZohar or Zerah was a son of Simeon according to , , and . He was one of the 70 souls to migrate to Egypt with Jacob.\n\nZuar was a member of the house of Issachar according to . He was the father of Nethaneel.\n\nZuriel (\"My Rock is God\") was the son of Abihail (). A Levite, Zuriel was chief prince of the Merarites at the time of the Exodus.\n\nIn , \"Rock of the Almighty\" (\"Shaddai is my rock\") was the father of Shelumiel, the prince of the Tribe of Simeon. He is mentioned in this context five times in the Book of Numbers.\n\n"}
{"id": "54514846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54514846", "title": "List of pre-Islamic Arabian deities", "text": "List of pre-Islamic Arabian deities\n\nThere were many deities in pre-Islamic Arabian beliefs, with the Kaaba alone said to have contained up to 360 idols of many gods and goddesses. The following is a list of deities worshipped in pre-Islamic Arabia.\n\n\n\n\nThe Arabs, through contact with other cultures, also worshipped foreign deities, as this was the case in eastern Arabia, Nabataea, and many others.\n\nPalmyra was home to an Arab population, who arrived there in the late first millennium BC. The pantheon of Palmyra included mostly northwestern Semitic/Canaanite deities, with the addition of Mesopotamian deities and Arab deities, as well as local deities, which include Aglibol, Yarhibol and Malakbel. At Palmyra, a temple dedicated to Al-Lat was set up by a citizen Taimarsu of Palmyra circa 123-164 AD. \n\nIn Arabia itself, the Lihyanites were said to have also worshipped Aglibol. Worship of Bel, Nabu and Shamash was evidently practiced in Eastern Arabia, brought into the region by merchants and visitors. In Islamic tradition, according to Ibn Ishaq, the god Hubal himself was brought into Mecca by a tribe leader named Amr ibn Luhayy, and according to al-Azraqi, the image was imported from Mesopotamia. \n\nThrough contact and influence, some local deities became identified with Greco-Roman deities, such as Al-Lat with Athena (or in Herodotus' case, Aphrodite), Al-'Uzza with Aphrodite Ourania, and Manat with Nemesis. Cults and temples of Arabian deities also found their way outside the peninsula, such as Dushara (Latin: Dusares) in Italy. An altar dedicated to Wadd (known in Greek as \"Oaddos\") and various other Minaean deities evidently existed in the Greek island of Delos.\n\nBes, an Egyptian god, may have been worshipped in Arabia, as representations of a dwarf-god resembling him were found in the peninsula. \n\n"}
{"id": "1802694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1802694", "title": "Mes Aynak", "text": "Mes Aynak\n\nMes Aynak (Pashto/Persian: , meaning \"little source of copper\"), also called Mis Ainak or Mis-e-Ainak, is a site southeast of Kabul, Afghanistan, located in a barren region of Logar Province. Mes Aynak contains Afghanistan's largest copper deposit, as well as the remains of an ancient settlement with over 400 Buddha statues, stupas and a monastery complex. Archaeologists are only beginning to find remnants of an older 5,000-year-old Bronze Age site beneath the Buddhist level, including an ancient copper smelter.\n\nThe site of Mes Aynak possesses a vast complex of Buddhist monasteries, homes, and market areas. The site contains artifacts recovered from the Bronze Age, and some of the artifacts recovered have dated back over three thousand years. The site's orientation on the Silk Road has yielded a mixture of elements from China and India. The wealth of Mes Aynak’s residents has been well represented in the site's far-reaching size and well guarded perimeter. Afghanistan’s eagerness to unearth the copper below the site is leading to the site's destruction rather than its preservation. Archaeologists have photographed the site and the relics excavated.\n\nThe word \"Mes Aynak\" () literally means \"little source of copper\"; \"mis\" () is \"copper\", while \"aynak\" () is a diminutive form of \"ayn\" (), which means \"source\".\n\nAs the name suggests, the presence of copper at Mes Aynak has been known about for some time, while the site's archaeological wealth has been known about since exploration by Russian and Afghan geologists in 1973-4. The earliest Buddhist remains date from the Kushan era, although these gradually gave way to T'ang Chinese and Uyghur influences. Mes Aynak was at the peak of its prosperity between the fifth and seventh century AD. A period of slow decline began in the eighth century, and the settlement was finally abandoned 200 years later.\n\nIn November 2007, a 30-year lease was granted for the copper mine to the China Metallurgical Group (MCC) for US$3 billion, making it the biggest foreign investment and private business venture in Afghanistan’s history. Allegations have persisted that the then-minister of mines obstructed the contracting process and accepted a large bribe to eliminate the other companies involved in the bid.\n\nThe Afghan Mining Ministry estimates that the mine holds some six million tons of copper (5.52 million metric tons). The mine is expected to be worth tens of billions of dollars, and to generate jobs and economic activity for the country, but threatens the site's archaeological remains. The site is accessed via a motorable track from the surfaced road between Kabul and Gardez. The mining lease holders propose to build a railway to serve the copper mine.\n\nAs of July 2012, MCC has not developed an environmental impact plan, and has remained secretive about feasibility studies, and the plan regarding the opening and closing of the mine, as well as any guarantees contained in the contract. International experts have warned that the project, and other similar projects in Afghanistan, could be threatened because MCC has not fulfilled promises made to the Afghan government, such as the lack of provision of proper housing for relocated villagers. Other investments that have yet to be fulfilled include a railway, a 400-megawatt power plant and a coal mine. A report by Global Witness, an independent advocacy group that focuses on natural resource exploitation, said there was a \"major gap\" between the government's promises of transparency and its follow-through.\n\nArchaeologists believe that Mes Aynak is a major historical heritage site. It has been called \"one of the most important points along the Silk Road\" by French archaeologist, Philippe Marquis. There are thought to be 19 separate archaeological sites in the valley including two small forts, a citadel, four fortified monasteries, several Buddhist stupas and a Zoroastrian fire temple, as well as ancient copper workings, smelting workshops, a mint, and miners habitations. In addition to the Buddhist monasteries and other structures from the Buddhist era that have already been identified, Mes Aynak also holds the remains of prior civilizations likely going back as far as the 3rd century BC. Historians are particularly excited by the prospect of learning more about the early science of metallurgy and mining by exploring this site. It is known to contain coins, glass, and the tools for making these, going back thousands of years. \n\nAll of this historical material is in imminent danger of destruction by the mining endeavor. In response to negative reports in the press comparing the Chinese mining company to those who destroyed the Buddhas of Bamiyan, a plan for minimal archaeological excavation was put in place. This plan still foresees the destruction of the site and everything still buried beneath it, but it does allow for the removal of whatever artifacts can be carried away by a small archaeological team led by DAFA, the French archaeological mission to Afghanistan.\n\nBetween May 2010 and July 2011 archaeologists excavated approximately 400 items; more than what the National Museum of Afghanistan housed before the war. The site covers roughly , encompassing several separate monasteries and a commercial area. It appears that Buddhists who began settling the area almost two millennia ago were drawn by the availability of copper. More recently, a stone statue, or stele, found in 2010 has been identified as a depiction of Prince Siddhartha before he founded Buddhism and has been taken to support the idea that there was an ancient monastic cult dedicated to Siddhartha's pre-enlightenment life.\n\nIn June 2012, a conference of experts in the fields of geology, mining engineering, archaeology, history and economic development met at SAIS in Washington, D.C to assess the situation in Mes Aynak. The provisional findings were tentatively encouraging: because of the length of time before mining can actually start at the site (approximately five years), it is indeed possible for collaboration between archaeologists and mining engineers to work to save Mes Aynak's cultural treasures. The site could either become a positive model for mineral extraction working to preserve cultural heritage or become an irreparable failure. However, a number of measures, that are not currently in place, must be met first. The site is still scheduled for destruction in January 2013.\n\nExcavators at Mes Aynak have been denounced as \"promoting Buddhism\" and threatened by the Taliban and many of the Afghan excavators who are working for purely financial reasons don't feel any connection to the Buddhist artifacts.\n\nThe U.S. Embassy in Kabul has provided a million dollars of U.S. military funding to help save the Buddhist ruins. As of June 2013 there is an international team of 67 archaeologists on site, including French, English, Afghans and Tajiks. There are also approximately 550 local labourers, which is set to increase to 650 in the summer. When this occurs Mes Aynak will become \"the largest rescue dig anywhere in the world\". All these personnel are protected by 200 armed guards. The team are using ground-penetrating radar, georectified photography and aerial 3D images to produce a comprehensive digital map of the ruins.\n\nThe rescue work was continuing as of June 2014, in spite of difficulties. There were only 10 international experts working at the site, and fewer than 20 Afghan archaeologists from Kabul’s Institute of Archaeology. A team of seven Tajik archaeologists was also helping. Marek Lemiesz, a senior archaeologist at the site, said that more help was needed. Security was also a concern.\n\nThere were also indications that mining plans were being delayed because of the declining copper prices.\n\nA documentary titled \"Saving Mes Aynak\", directed by Brent E. Huffman, tells the story of the archaeological site, as well as the dangerous environment the mine has created for archaeologists, Chinese workers, and local Afghans. The film follows several main characters, including Philippe Marquis, a French archaeologist leading emergency conservation efforts; Abdul Qadeer Temore, an Afghan archaeologist at the Afghan National Institute of Archaeology; Liu Wenming, a manager for the China Metallurgical Group Corporation; and Laura Tedesco, an American archaeologist working for the U.S. State Department.\n\nIn July 2014 it was announced that \"Saving Mes Aynak\" will be completed by the end of 2014, and is being made with Kartemquin Films.\n\nThe documentary \"Saving Mes Aynak\" premiered at the 2014 IDFA film festival in Amsterdam and in the USA at the 2015 Full Frame Documentary Film Festival.\n\nIn April 2015, Brent E. Huffman announced a plan to raise awareness of Mes Aynak through a #SaveMesAynak Global Screening Day and a fundraising campaign.\n\nIn June 2015, the film was offered for free streaming within Afghanistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50618576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50618576", "title": "Moon Temple (Chía)", "text": "Moon Temple (Chía)\n\nThe Moon Temple of Chía was a temple constructed by the Muisca as a place of worship for their Moon goddess Chía. The temple was built in Chía, Cundinamarca, Colombia, then part of the Muisca Confederation. It was one of the most important temples in the religion of the Muisca. The temple was destroyed during the Spanish conquest of the Muisca on the Altiplano Cundiboyacense. Little is known about the temple built on the Tíquiza Hill in western Chía bordering Tabio.\n\nThe Temple of the Moon was built on the Tíquiza Hill west of the urban centre of Chía. The Muisca had an advanced knowledge of astronomy and constructed various sites across their territories. \"El Infiernito\", just outside Villa de Leyva has survived, while the Sun Temple of Sugamuxi has been reconstructed. Just like the Sun Temple, the Moon temple was constructed according to the positions of the respective celestial body.\n\nAt the temple rituals were organised by the \"caciques\" and \"zipas\" of the Muisca Confederation. The \"caciques\" and priests at the Moon Temple wore white robes, different from those at the Sun Temple that were red. The Moon Temple not only formed a place of worship, also education to the new \"caciques\" and Muisca rulers was provided near the temple (\"Seminario de la Cuca\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27044409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27044409", "title": "Mosques commissioned by the Ottoman dynasty", "text": "Mosques commissioned by the Ottoman dynasty\n\nThe list below contains some of the most important mosques in modern-day Turkey that were commissioned by the members of Ottoman imperial family.\n\nIn the table below the first column shows the name, the second column shows the location, the third column shows the commissioner, the fourth column shows the architect and the fifth column shows the duration of construction.\n\nAmong those mosques in Istanbul some of them have been built on the traditional seven hills of the city. (The numbers refer to the number of the hill.)\n\n\nSelâtin mosques, (Selâtin means in Arabic \"Sultans\") by the usual definition, are mosques commissioned by a sultan who personally led a military campaign. They are large mosques with several minarets. Fatih and Süleymaniye are typical examples. However, this definition does not exactly cover the concept. Beginning by the 17th century, most sultans preferred to stay in the capital rather than campaigning. Ahmet I (reigned 1603–1617), who was a non-campaigning sultan, commissioned the Blue Mosques, one of the greatest mosques which had 6 minarets. This mosque is also considered a selâtin mosque.\n\nMost of the mosques were commissioned by the sultans. But some mosques were commissioned by the other members of the dynasty; usually the mothers of sultans. \n"}
{"id": "58017213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58017213", "title": "Mount Wilga House", "text": "Mount Wilga House\n\nMount Wilga House is an heritage-listed former residence and rehabilitation hospital at 2a Manor Road (Rosamond Street), Hornsby in the Hornsby Shire local government area of New South Wales, Australia. Its design is attributed to Henry Marcus Clark and was built from 1913 to 1914. It is also known as Mt Wilga. The property is privately owned. It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\nThe North Shore railway line terminates at Hornsby, where it connects with the Main North line going to Brooklyn, Gosford, Newcastle and eventually the North Coast and Brisbane. The Northern Line was extended from Strathfield to the Hawkesbury in 1886, passing through the present suburb of Hornsby. The station was over from the village of Hornsby (modern day Normanhurst), so in 1895 the station was called Hornsby Junction to avoid confusion. In 1900 the word Junction was dropped and the area around the station became known as Hornsby; Old Hornsby was the name adopted for the present Normanhurst.\n\nMt Wilga Estate dates from an initial purchase in 1907 of at Hornsby by Georgina Clark, wife of the successful Sydney Draper and Retailer, Henry Marcus Clark. Additional purchases of acres and were made between 1907 and 1908.\n\nIn 1908 Clark built a long suspension bridge over the deep gully which lies between Mt Wilga and Hornsby railway station to facilitate the arrival of guests to the property from Sydney.\n\nPrior to Mt. Wilga, Clark had resided in \"Sefton Hall\" in Marrickville Road, Dulwich Hill, which was named after a property in England.\n\nMt. Wilga was reputedly designed by the owner and planned along similar lines to his summer home \"Sefton Hall\" at Mount Wilson in the northern Blue Mountains. It was intended to be Marcus Clark's winter home. The original garden as planned by Clark reflected an aesthetic of defining the property boundary and main access route as well as concealing the house from direct view and then revealing the house at journey's end. A formal area of the garden was laid out to the north of the house and open paddocks and orchard to the west of the house. To the south and south east was a service area.\n\nHowever, Clark died in 1913 during the construction of the large single storey Federation Queen Anne style house. It was completed in 1914 by his widow, Georgina Clark. The Clark family resided at Mt Wilga until 1919. Henry's son, Les Clark built a very similar house \"Dulcidene Homestead\" in Dubbo.\n\nIn 1926 Mrs Georgina M Clark sold the house and a portion of its land to Miss Jessie Hamilton Scott]of Hornsby who subdivided the land creating Manor Road. In 1928 the subdivision of Mt Wilga into 67 residential allotments was initiated. The large allotment containing Mt Wilga house remained in private hands until its sale in 1952 to the Commonwealth of Australia for use as a rehabilitation hospital.\n\nIn 1948 the property was owned by a Dr Smallpage. The Mt Wilga Rehabilitation Hospital operated between 1952 and 1987. During the 35–year period the estate and house were altered to accommodate the functions and facilities of a rehabilitation hospital. Several large buildings were constructed on site.\n\nIn 1985 Howard Tanner & Associates (HT&A;) prepared'\"Mt Wilga, Hornsby NSW: Conservation Management Plan for the Administration Building' for the Commonwealth Department of Housing and Construction. In January 1987, Howard Tanner wrote to the then Heritage & Conservation Branch advising of the impending sale of the property by the Australian Government. In March, 1987, HT&A; wrote to the Heritage & Conservation Branch making recommendations for a site curtilage based on historic and contemporary conditions.\n\nConcern over the future of the site led to the placement of a Permanent Conservation Order (PCO) #535 over the house and some of the curtilage on 4 September 1987. This is understood to have taken place prior to the sale of the property.\n\nIn late 1987 (post PCO listing) Alpha Pacific purchased the site for use as a private rehabilitation hospital, and in July, 1988, sought to subdivide the site. The Heritage Council refused the application which sought to reduce the curtilage around Mt Wilga. A modified proposal to subdivide the site into two large allotments was subsequently approved by the Heritage Council. Consequently, Lot 2 DP 792198 was sold in 1990 to the Japan-based Buddhist sect, the Nichiren Shoshu Sokagakkai Australia and run as a Buddhist Cultural Centre. The northern Lot 1 DP 792198 continued to operate as a private hospital.\n\nThe original garden as planned by Marcus Clark reflected an aesthetic of defining the property boundary and main access route as well as concealing the house from direct view and then revealing the house at journey's end. The formal area of the garden which existed to the north of the house and open paddocks and orchard to the west of the house were lost during the development of the hospital. The extant grounds to the south and south east of the house were formerly the service area of the property. In their present state the grounds reflect the reduction of the gardens and expansion of open lawn areas, the gradual attrition and simplification of planting and the removal of the majority of the trees, associated with the institutional management of the site.\n\nIn August 1991 a Conservation Management Plan was prepared by Robertson & Hindmarsh Pty Ltd for Soka Gakkai International Australia, a Buddhist group who made a number of small modifications to the house and outbuildings. These included repainting the interior and exterior of the house, recarpeting, refurbishing a former minor building into a Women's temple and various services were partially separated from the hospital to the north. Although the group planned further extensions to the temple facilities, they moved from the site in 1999 and these modifications were never initiated.\n\nThe site was sold to a consortium wanting to construct a SEPP5 aged care facility. From 1999 the site has been vacant, or served once again as a private residence.\n\nIn August 1999 Scott Robertson of Robertson & Hindmarsh Pty Ltd was engaged by Mirrabeema Project Management on behalf of the Mt Wilga Village Consortium to prepare \"Conservation Management Plan of Mt Wilga, 2a Manor Road, Hornsby\". At its meeting of 20 January 2000, the Heritage Council provided its general terms of approval to an amended integrated development application. On 9 June 2000 delegated conditional approval was granted to the subsequent section 63 application. On 6 October 2000 delegated conditional approval was granted to a further section 63 application under the Heritage Act.\n\nSince 2006 one residential allotment facing Manor Road (known as Lot 2 in DP 1181742), outside the NSW State Heritage Register curtilage boundary, has been subdivided off the property. This lot was previously occupied by a cottage on the Mount Wilga estate, which was demolished .\n\nThe site was sold in 2008 to Austcorp Project No. 1 Pty Ltd. Between 1999 and 2010 a series of unsuccessful attempts by several owners were made to adapt the site for medium-high density retirement living. During this time, many buildings with little heritage significance were demolished and many conservation works to the house were completed. Additions to the hospital were approved in 2011. The current owners bought the homestead site in 2011. A four–lot subdivision (three small lots on the southern boundary, one large lot for the house) was withdrawn and later a two–lot subdivision was approved (for the current owners) in 2012.\n\nFederation mansion and garden prominently sited in large grounds on the apex of a long ridge with commanding views of the surrounding countryside, including across the valley to \"neighbouring\" mansion, Mount Errington.\n\nThe original garden planned by Clark reflected an aesthetic of defining the property boundary and main access route as well as concealing the house from direct view and then revealing the house at journey's end. A formal area of the garden was laid out to the north of the house and open paddocks and orchard to the west of the house. To the south and south east was a service area. Despite subdivision and loss of land to the north and east, a generous area of garden surrounds the house to the east and south. This retains the core of the eastern garden, driveway and a good part of the former service area, including the tennis court, bowling green and site of the former chicken house. Subdivision and redevelopment of the hospital to the north and west has greatly altered much of the estate's land there and encroaches fairly close to the carriage loop and western boundary of Mt. Wilga.\n\nPeriod elements remaining on the site include border planting around the perimeter of the house.\n\nA grand drive sweeps south-west from Manor Road leading up to a fine circular carriage drive in front (north) of the house (formerly gravel, now bitumen) with central planting plot and dominant Canary Island date palm (Phoenix canariensis) to high. (This possibly dates from s as it is not evident in a 1917 photograph). The original long drive sandstone castellated gate arch structure no longer exists - it has been replaced with a modest brick pillar modern steel gates in the hospital era) but an eastern pedestrian entrance constructed of sandstone remains. This eastern entrance is covered by climbing fig (Ficus pumila var.pumila) and retains an intact wrought iron period gate.\n\nMt Wilga's grounds include large sloping lawn areas to the house's east and south, a tennis court to its east, a bowling green to its south-east and some shrubbery (seemingly reduced in quantity).\n\nLarge mature trees including Bunya Bunya pine (Araucaria bidwillii), Port Jackson or rusty fig (Ficus rubiginosa) and Monterey pines (Pinus radiata) to (probably from ) camphor laurels (Cinnammomum camphora) and brush box (Lophostemon confertus) to a 16m evergreen /southern magnolia / bull bay (Magnolia grandiflora) and crepe myrtle (Lagerstroemia indica). Along the southern boundary there is a row of turpentine trees (Syncarpia glomulifera) to 15m high which have grown since the 1950s and, further to the south-west adjoining the former service driveway to the former garage, a Himalayan cedar (Cedrus deodara), book leaf cypress/arborvitae (Platycladus orientalis) and brush box trees (now outside the boundary to the west near the former service drive).\n\nAlso mature trees on site include two sweet gums (Liquidambar styraciflua), two frangipani (Plumeria rubra) flanking the front steps to the house, a rare jambos/ rose apple (Syzygium jambos) tree on the eastern boundary near the entrance drive, an ironbark tree west of the house (Eucalyptus sp., possibly E.crebra), a NZ flax bush south of the drawing room (Phormium tenax) and a large Chinese wisteria (W.sinensis) on the wire mesh fence of the tennis court.\n\nYounger tree plantings on the eastern lawn include tupelo or sour gum (Nyssa sylvatica), Camellia sasanqua, a mature Japanese maple (Acer palmatum) and native cheese tree (Glochidion ferdinandii).\n\nA weld-mesh boundary fence is modern (dating from the hospital era) and inappropriate to the style of the grounds (LEP).\n\nFederation mansion with face brick walls, complex steep pitched terracotta tiled roof, tall roughcast chimneys, shingled and half-timbered gables, sandstone veranda piers with simple scalloped timber valences. Unusual cylindrical polished granite colonettes support the timber veranda posts.\n\nThe residence is a single storey with a basement and three-storey tower at the roof apex. Original casement windows include projecting bays with leadlight and sculpted sandstone sills. Original doors and other joinery remains. Much of the original interior survives. The residence is prominently sited in large grounds with a number of large trees and a stone gateway (LEP).\n\n2007-8: 88 units with basement parking: repairs and maintenance work to preserve the fabric of the building, including the:\n\nAs at 18 September 2014, outstanding late Federation Queen Anne style mansion. Impressive multi-level roof with highly decorated gables. Unusual verandah detailing. Generally in good condition. Many interior features of note. Owned by Marcus Clark leading Sydney retailer of the time. Grounds: Remnant garden layout surrounding notable mansion. Mature period trees dated from Federation period. Of regional significance.\n\nMount Wilga House was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136760", "title": "Munafiqun", "text": "Munafiqun\n\nIn Islam, the munafiqun ('hypocrites', , singular \"munāfiq\") were a group decried in the Quran as outward Muslims who were inwardly concealing disbelief and actively sought to undermine the Muslim community. The hypocrisy itself is called \"nifāq\" ().\n\n\nThe Qur'an has many verses discussing \"munāfiqūn\", referring to them as more dangerous to Muslims than the worst non-Muslim enemies of Islam.\n\n"}
{"id": "42201840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42201840", "title": "Muni (Hinduism)", "text": "Muni (Hinduism)\n\nMuni is the wife of Kashyapa, one of the 62 daughters of Daksha and his wife Panchajani (daughter of Virani.)\n\nThe Bhagavata Purana states that the Apsaras were born from Kashyap and Muni.\n"}
{"id": "21028332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21028332", "title": "Nalanda Buddhist Institute, Bhutan", "text": "Nalanda Buddhist Institute, Bhutan\n\nNalanda Buddhist Institute(NBI), also known locally as Daley Goenpa or Dalida, is a Buddhist monastic school (shedra). \nThe shedra is located in the western part of the Punakha District (Dzongkhag) in the Kingdom of Bhutan. It is located below Talo Monastery and is above Walakha. It is about a 25-minute drive from the main highway to Punakha, before reaching Kuruthang from the Metsina junction. Nalanda Buddhist Institute can be seen from Dochu La pass and from Thinleygang on the main Easst-West highway.\n\nThe name Nalanda means 'insatiable giving'.\n\nIn 1757, the 9th Je Khenpo, Shakya Rinchen, considered to be a reincarnation of Rechung Dorje Drakpa, founded the Nalanda Monastery in Punakha located below Talo Monastery. Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche, also known as Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche, was from Sha Rueb Samchokha in the Wangdue Phodrang Dzongkhag (district). Rechunga was one of two extraordinary disciples of Milarepa in the Kagyu Buddhist lineage. He was known as the “moon like” disciple of Milarepa and travelled to India to bring back profound teachings to Tibet. These important teachings were presented to Milarepa who absorbed them into the Kagyu lineage.\n\nAt the time when this monastery was built, the ancient Nalanda University in India was a very holy and sacred place. The original Nalanda University is located in what was known as Magadha that is now near present-day Patna, the capital of the present day state of Bihar, India.\n\nThe people in Bhutan made great efforts to visit this special holy place at least once in their lifetimes. However, there were no roads and people had to walk to India. As a result, the journey was very unsafe and people were at risk of being robbed or worse. On arrival in India, people from Bhutan faced many difficulties including dealing with differences in food, culture, and language, as well as being in an unfamiliar place.\n\nAs a way of accommodating the people’s desire to visit Nalanda, Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche built this monastery in Bhutan and named it after the Nalanda University in India. Phajoding Monastery, located in the mountains outside of Thimphu, was the first monastery that Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche constructed. Nalanda Monastery is the second monastery he founded in Bhutan and is known as the “Second Nalanda”.\n\nIt is said that the power of the Nalanda Monastery in Bhutan is no different than that of the Nalanda University in India. Whatever merit (result of positive action through compassion) is achieved at Nalanda Monastery in Bhutan is equivalent to the merit that is gained at Nalanda University in India.\n\nGyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche had already completed building Phajoding Monastery in the hills above the Thimphu valley. He wondered where he should build the next monastery. The monk body was moving from Thimphu Dzong to Punakha, as is tradition, to spend the winter months in Punakha Dzong. As he was walking over Dochu La (pass), he saw eight vultures flying to an area on the side of the hills above the river. \nGyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche suspected that maybe these vultures were the eight original scholars (pandits) from Nalanda University in India. Therefore, he sought confirmation in a dream and the eight scholars appeared and gave him a teaching. Based on the selection of this site by the vultures and the dream of the eight scholars, this location was chosen as the place where he built Nalanda Monastery.\n\nDuring Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen’s lifetime, Nalanda Monastery in Bhutan was a thriving Buddhist teaching institution with a renowned reputation. After Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen’s final thugdham (dzongkha) /maha Samādhi (pali/sanscrit), slowly the teachings stopped and the great institute lay dormant. Attempts to revive the teaching at Nalanda Monastery happened several times by different teachers but after the teachers departed, the monk community again shrank and were insufficient to serve the community or sustain teaching.\n\nEventually, the uncle of His Majesty, the Fourth King, Jigme Singye Wangchuk, Dorji Lopen Yoenten Gyaltsen, requested permission from the King to open an official Buddhist shedra. In 1991, His Majesty gave permission for Nalanda Monastery to become a shedra and in 1992, two lopens (teachers) opened the shedra with 20 monks. Over time, the number of lopens and students has increased. As of 2014, there are 6 lopens and 125 students who range from 8 to 28 years of age.\n\nWhile constructing the original temple of Nalanda in Bhutan, Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche saw eight men from India in a small valley next to the building site. He realised that these eight Indians must be the eight scholars (pandits) of the original Nalanda University in India. When he went to find them to see if this was true, they had disappeared. The disappearance of the Indians was taken as confirmation that these indeed were the great eight scholars (pandits) of Nalanda University.\n\nThe eight scholars of Nalanda University are known as the Six Ornaments of the Southern Continent and the Two Excellent Ones. This refers to eight of the greatest and most distinguished scholars of Nalanda University. The Six Ornaments include: Nāgārjuna, Aryadeva, Asaṅga, Vasubandhu, Dignāga, and Dharmakīrti. The Two Excellent Ones are Gunaprabha and Shakyaprabha. Each of these great scholars wrote extensive, elaborate, and profound Buddhist philosophical commentaries that are still studied today throughout monasteries and nunneries. In order to praise and honour them for their auspicious appearance in the valley, Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche himself built clay statues of each of them. These statues can be seen inside the lower shrine room of the upper temple (lhakang).\n\nThe upper temple (lhakang) was originally as only a single story building that was later extended to a second storey by Je Jambashinyen, the 50th Je Khenpo of Bhutan.\n\nGyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche Statue\nOn the main altar of the upper shrine room stands a clay statue of Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche, the founder of Nalanda Monastery. He is sitting in a pose of teaching. He is dressed as the incarnation of Sambhogakaya, the manifestation of a Buddha ornately dressed who possesses complete pure qualities. He is wearing the six ornaments of the pāramitā (the six perfections) which include a five leaf crown, wrist bracelets, and ankle bracelets.\n\n\nAccess is restricted to the alcove where the main statue, Dorji Yudenma/Shengchong Wangmo, resides. There are a number of other small statues. The alcove entrance is flanked by clay and wooden statues of Yarsapa on the left, the protector deity of the valley; and his sister Pelzom Gyalmo, on the right.\n\nGyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche in a previous life, as Tsang Khenchen Pelden Jamtsho, painted by Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche on canvas.\nGyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche painted by himself on canvas and relocated to the upper lhakang from the original lower lhakang.\n\n\nOn either end of the main altar are alcoves for statues of the eight Indian scholars (the eight pandits of Nalanda University in India who were seen by Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche in the valley)\n8 Indian Scholars or Panditas statues known as the Six Ornaments of the Southern Continent and the Two Excellent Ones:\n\nOne of Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche’s main disciples built the original lower temple (Sonam Ghatsel temple) but it was destroyed by fire. It was rebuilt in the 1960s, during the Fourth King’s (Jigme Singye Wangchuck) reign, with the support of the Queen Great Grandmother Ashi Kesang Choden Wangchuk.\n\nFuture Buddha Gyalwa Jampa (Buddha Maitreya) is the central statue.\n\n\n\nA library and a classroom were constructed in 2010 to house reference texts in Dzongkha, Sanskrit and English. These include books on Buddhist philosophy as well as English language, history, civic studies, geography and maths. Student monks can borrow these reference books for to support the monastic curriculum or for their own personal interest and learning.\n\nA shedra is a Buddhist institute that includes the teaching of Buddhist philosophy, learning and playing of ritual instruments, making ritual cakes called tormas (Skt: balingta), reciting scriptures, conducting prayer ceremonies (pujas) for both special observance days and on behalf of members in the lay community. The technique of debate is used in the shedra as a way of verifying Buddhist logic and ensuring a firm understanding of Buddhist philosophy. \nDebating practice requires at least one monk that is the answerer with at least another monk that is the questioner. The answerer must give a competent answer to the question or otherwise face further questioning. The debate of Buddhist logic continues between the questioner and answerer. The technique of debate in the shedra helps to dispel confusion and illusion about Buddhist philosophical teachings. It helps the mind to develop greater clarity about the nature of reality that includes the idea of a self and the experience of phenomena \n\nMonks join NBI with a wide range of previous mainstream education. Some may not attended school at all whilst others may have completed Class X or even XII. Recognising the importance of English in modern Bhutan, ex-Principal Khenpo Tshewang introduced English classes in 2006 making use of students who had completed higher school grades or local volunteers, thus the ability and availability of teachers has varied over time.\nNalanda Buddhist Institute divides students into four (4) groups based on their ability with English. The monks learn speaking and conversational skills, vocabulary, reading, and writing. In addition to basic grammar, the monks are taught some subjects in English such as Buddhism, health and disease, and basic science. English examinations are not a part of the standard monastic education but NBI will conduct them from 2014. \nEnglish classes are held six (6) days a week between 7 and 8pm. The monastery happily welcomes visitors to visit the monastery and speak English with the monks. The monks appreciate the opportunity to practice their English and enjoy learning about other people, their countries, and their cultures.\nUnder the direction and guidance of Khenpo Sonam Tshewang, the first dedicated Translation Class began at Nalanda Buddhist Institute in 2013. The Translation Class is a three (3) year course where students focus on learning and improving English speaking, vocabulary, reading, and writing skills. The goal is for the monks to translate documents as well as interpret for lopens (teachers) speaking in Dzongkha or Chokey to an English speaking audience.\nEnglish is used in tandem with Dzongkha (the official language of Bhutan), and Chokey (Classical Tibetan); the spiritual language used in many Buddhist texts; during translation. Students learn how to translate between the three (3) languages. The class is focuses on learning Buddhist texts in English to enable translation into Dzongkha or Chokey, becoming familiar with the English vocabulary in common use for Buddhist concepts. \nIn order to ensure full understanding and accurate translation students, other non-religious subjects are taught, such as planetary science and the secular view of the origin of the universe, basic anatomy and physiology, other religions, and traditions of Buddhism.\n\nThe monastery got its first computers in 2007 and a small lab was established where monks could practice typing and use of basic software.\nThe monastery is upgrading its computer laboratory. With support from a local company in Thimphu and some government assistance, the monastery is acquiring ten (10) new computers and furniture. The goal is for the computer laboratory to expand to thirty (30) computers as the opportunity becomes available. The monks will begin lessons that will focus on: learning typing in both English and Dzongkha, using basic software and other computer skills although there is no internet connection. \nFuture plans include creating Buddhist texts called pechas and preservation of Buddhist texts.\n\nThe retreat centre is located on the hillside below Nalanda Buddhist Institute. There are six cottages which can house twelve meditators for three-year retreats. A small temple is also part of the retreat centre.\n\nThe monastery is looking into opportunities to become more self-sufficient while preserving and maintaining the precious environment and resources. The monastery has goals for solar water heating, solar cooking equipment or other energy efficient cooking equipment, a greenhouse for growing vegetables, and a clean water supply that includes watershed protection and conservation management.\n\nGyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche was sitting on a big stone and appreciating the scenery around Nalanda when he saw a vision of Tusita Heaven (Ganden Heaven). He called to his two main disciples Je Kuenga and Je Yuenten. When they came, he told them to sit on the stone and then held them by the waist. When they looked at the same spot where Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche had been looking they also saw Tusita Heaven. The stone where they sat is now a sacred spot at the monastery. The stone has the special name, Ganden Jesa Dor or Heaven Viewing Rock.\n\nThe tulku (reincarnation) of Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen known as Gyalwang Tenpi Ningchey Rinpoche, has resided at Nalanda Buddhist Institute since the age of four \nwhen he was recognised as a reincarnation of Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche. \n\nAt the age of two or three, he recalled his previous life as Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche. The monk body (Dratshang Lhentshog) of Bhutan formally recognised him as the reincarnation of Gyalwang Shakya Rinchen Rinpoche.\n"}
{"id": "11393687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11393687", "title": "Noninterference (Buddhism)", "text": "Noninterference (Buddhism)\n\nNoninterference is a Buddhist concept and practice which relates to the idea that all things are impermanent, with a resignation to events beyond human control.\n"}
{"id": "29213819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29213819", "title": "Octave celebration", "text": "Octave celebration\n\nThe Octave is one of Luxembourg's major annual religious celebrations. It takes starts on the 3rd Sunday after Easter and closes with the Octave Procession on the 5th Sunday after Easter. It honours \"Our Lady of Luxembourg, Maria Mutter Jesu, Consolatrix Afflictorum, Patrona Civitatis et Patriae Luxemburgensis\".\n\nThe political, social and religious environment at the beginning of the Octave was characterised by the Thirty Years War (1618-1648) and the years of the Plague (1626-1636): two thirds of the population died of the latter. This time of crisis was marked by war and famine.\n\nAt the same time, the Jesuit mission had a clear goal: through an attractive popular religiousness, the Catholic faith should be strengthened in the spirit of the Counter-Reformation of the Council of Trent (1545-1563), to prevent the spread of Protestantism. \n\nThe text of the election act of Mary as patroness of the country on 20 February 1678 was as follows:\n\n\"Sainte Marie mere de JESUS Consolatrice des affliges, nous les trois Estats du Pays Dûche de Luxembourg et Comte de Chiny avec tous les habitans du Pays Vous choisisons aujourdhuy e mes nom et celuy de nos successeurs pour dame et patrone perpetuele de toute la Province, et professions fermement de vous honorer toujours pour tele. Cepourquoy nous vous supplions tres humblement de nous recevoir en vostre protection et de nous assister au temps de guerre, peste et famine et en toutes nos necessites et duersites. Amen\"\n\nTranslation:\n\n\"Holy Mary, mother of Jesus, Comforter of the afflicted, we the three Estates of the Country Duchy of Luxembourg and County of Chiny with all the inhabitants of the Country choose You in our names and those of our successors, as lady and patroness perpetual of all the Province, and profess firmly to honour always. That is why we beg you very humbly to take us into your protection and to assist us in time of war, pestilence and famine and in all our needs and varieties. Amen.\"\n\nThe text was signed in the Jesuit church by the three estates (clergy, nobility and citizens of the towns), and by the magistrates of the 15 cities and the three \"Franchises\" of the Duchy of Luxembourg.\n\nThus the Virgin Mary Octave took on a national character. In World War II, it also took on a patriotic meaning, and to this day belongs to the religious identity of Luxembourg.\n"}
{"id": "45449483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45449483", "title": "Our Lady of Bzommar", "text": "Our Lady of Bzommar\n\nOur Lady of Bzommar is a Marian shrine in Bzommar (), Lebanon.\n\nBzommar is situated 36 km northeast of Beirut at an elevation ranging between 920m and 950m above the Mediterranean. It is part of the Caza of Keserwan. Bzoummar is home to a monastery of the Armenian Catholic Church that was built in 1749, where the image of Our Lady of Bzommar is venerated.\n"}
{"id": "7824414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7824414", "title": "Panchachara", "text": "Panchachara\n\nIn Lingayat theology the Panchacharas denote the five codes of conduct to be followed by the devotee. The \"Panchacharas\" include\n\n"}
{"id": "2069328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2069328", "title": "Progressive Reform Party (Suriname)", "text": "Progressive Reform Party (Suriname)\n\nThe Progressive Reform Party (), formerly known as the \"Verenigde Hindoestaanse Partij\" (\"United Hindustani Party\"), is a political party in Suriname. \n\nAt the last legislative elections (25 May 2010), the party was part of the \"Nieuw Front\" political combination that won 31.6% of the popular votes and fourteen out of fifty-one seats in the National Assembly. With eight seats, the VHP is currently the biggest opposition party in the Surinamese parliament.\n\nChan Santokhi is since July 3, 2011 the chairman of the party. Previous chairman Ram Sardjoe is the honorary chairman. \nAccording to current statistics, the Progressive Reform Party is the second biggest political party of Suriname (with Dési Bouterse's National Democratic Party being no. 1).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2444429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2444429", "title": "Prosperous Peace Party", "text": "Prosperous Peace Party\n\nThe Prosperous Peace Party () was a Christian-democratic political party in Indonesia. It portrayed itself as the reincarnation of Parkindo, the Indonesian Christian Party, which contested the 1955 and 1971 elections. Although it was initially founded by Christians, the party was open to all religions, and 21 of its candidates in the 2009 legislative election were Muslim.\n\nIn the 2004 Indonesian legislative election, the party won 2.1% of the popular vote and 12 out of 550 seats, but in the 2009 legislative election, the party won 1.5 percent of the votes, less than the required 2.5 percent electoral threshold, meaning it lost all its seats in the People's Representative Council.\n\nThe party agreed to merge along with 9 other parties into Hanura on 10 March 2013 after failing to be certified to contest in the 2014 legislative election by the Electoral Commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "25912796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25912796", "title": "Psilocybe kumaenorum", "text": "Psilocybe kumaenorum\n\nPsilocybe kumaenorum is a species of mushroom in the family Strophariaceae. The mushroom contains the medicinal compound psilocybin. It is in the section \"Zapotecorum\" of the genus \"Psilocybe\", other members of this section include \"Psilocybe muliercula\", \"Psilocybe angustipleurocystidiata\", \"Psilocybe aucklandii\", \"Psilocybe collybioides\", \"Psilocybe graveolens\", \"Psilocybe zapotecorum\", \"Psilocybe pintonii\", \"Psilocybe subcaerulipes\", \"Psilocybe moseri\", \"Psilocybe zapotecoantillarum\", \"Psilocybe zapotecocaribaea\", and \"Psilocybe antioquiensis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2532811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2532811", "title": "Sacrifice in Maya culture", "text": "Sacrifice in Maya culture\n\nSacrifice was a religious activity in Maya culture, involving either the killing of animals or the bloodletting by members of the community, in rituals superintended by priests. Sacrifice has been a feature of almost all pre-modern societies at some stage of their development and for broadly the same reason: to propitiate or fulfill a perceived obligation towards the gods.\n\nWhat is known of Mayan ritual practices comes from two sources: the extant chronicles and codices of the missionary-ethnographers who arrived with or shortly after the Spanish conquest of Yucatán and subsequent archaeological data. The historical record is more sparse than that for the Aztecs, and can only be reliable in regards to the Post-Classical period, long after the Classic Maya collapse. The chroniclers have also been accused of colonial bias, but the most comprehensive account of Maya society, by Diego de Landa, has been described by modern experts as an \"ethnographic masterpiece”, despite his role in the destruction of Maya codices.\n\nThe archaeological data has continued to expand as more excavations are undertaken, confirming much of what the early chroniclers wrote. A major breakthrough was the deciphering of the Maya syllabary in the 1950s, which has allowed the glyphs carved into many temples to be understood. Excavation and forensic examination of human remains has also thrown light on the age, sex and cause of death of sacrificial victims.\n\nThe Mayas engaged in a large number of festivals and rituals on fixed days of the year, many of which involved animal sacrifices and all of which seem to have involved blood letting. The ubiquity of this practice is a unique aspect of pre-Columbian Mesoamerican culture, and is now believed to have originated with the Olmecs, the region's first civilization.\n\nRitualised sacrifice was usually performed in public by religious or political leaders piercing a soft body part, most commonly the tongue, ear or foreskin, and collecting the blood to smear directly on the idol or collecting it on paper, which was then burned. In what is today Nicaragua, the blood was smeared on maize, distributed to the people and baked into sacred bread. The blood could also be collected from the non-elite, often from the foreskins of youths (p. 678), or from high-ranking women.\n\nThe site of collection was of obvious ritual significance. Joralemon notes it is \"virtually certain\" that blood from the penis and the vagina were the most sacred and had \"extraordinary fertilizing power\" and that such rituals were essential for the regeneration of the natural world, particularly cultivated plants. In one dramatic variant men and women \"gathered in the temple in a line, and each made a pierced hole through the member, across from side to side, and then passed through as great a quantity of cord as they could stand; and thus all together fastened and strung together, they anointed the statue the Spanish considered to be sun worship of \"Baʿal\" from the Bible. But auto-sacrifice could also be an everyday event, with those passing by an idol anointing it with blood drawn on the spot as a sign of piety.\n\nBlood sacrifice to the Maya gods was vigorously opposed by the Spanish clergy as the most visible sign of native apostasy, as De Landa, who was later to become the second bishop of the Yucatán, makes clear:\n\"After the people had been thus instructed in religion, and the youths benefitted as we have said, they were perverted by their priests and chiefs to return to their idolatry; this they did, making sacrifices not only by incense, but also of human blood. Upon this the friars held an Inquisition, calling upon the Alcalde Mayor for aid; they held trials and celebrated an Auto, putting many on scaffolds, capped, shorn and beaten, and some in the penitential robes for a time. Some of the Indians out of grief, and deluded by the devil, hung themselves; but generally they all showed much repentance and readiness to be good Christians.\"\n\nMesoamerica lacked domesticated food animals such as sheep, cows and pigs, so animal protein and byproducts could only be obtained by hunting. Montero-Lopez argues that on the basis of analysis of the distribution of deer parts in Classical Maya sites (white-tailed deer were the most common sacrificial and festive food animal), the archeological record does not support a clear distinction between the secular and sacred uses of animals. After deer, the next most common sacrificial animals were dogs and various birds (whose heads were offered to the idols), followed by a wide range of more exotic creatures, from jaguars to alligators. Animal sacrifice also seems to have been a common ritual before the commencement of any important task or undertaking.\n\nDe Landa provides the most comprehensive account of calendar festivals and rituals (chapters 34-40), but in none of these \"regular\" events is human sacrifice mentioned, which must mean his Maya informants were unaware of any instances since the cleric would hardly have suppressed such information.\nThe traditional view is that the Mayans were far less prolific in sacrificing people than their neighbours. Bancroft notes: \"An event which in Mexico would be the death-signal to a hecatomb of human victims would in Yucatán be celebrated by the death of a spotted dog.\"(p. 704)\nBut mounting archeological evidence has for many decades now supported the chroniclers' contention that human sacrifice was far from unknown in Maya society.\nThe city of Chichen Itza, the main focus of Maya regional power from the Late Classical period, appears to have also been a major focus of human sacrifice. There are two natural sinkholes, or \"cenotes\", at the site of the city, which would have provided a plentiful supply of potable water. The largest of these, Cenote Sagrado (also known as the Well of Sacrifice), was where many victims were cast as an offering to the rain god Chaac. A 2007 study of remains taken from this \"cenote\" found that they had wounds consistent with human sacrifice.\nThere is no consensus on why these sacrifices took place, their true scale at different times, or even who the victims were.\n\nBecause Maya society was organised as independent city states, the local political and religious elites could independently initiate human sacrifices as they saw fit. De Landa notes that a common cause for temple sacrifices in many cities was the occurrence of \"pestilences, dissensions, or droughts or the like ills\". (p. 91) In such cases, slaves were usually purchased and after a variety of rituals were anointed with blue dye and either shot with arrows through the heart or held on an altar while the priest swiftly removed the heart using a ceremonial knife. In either case the heart was presented to the temple idol, which was also anointed with blood. According to Bancroft, one tribe sacrificed illegitimate boys twice a year, again by removing the heart, but collecting the blood in a bowl and scattering it to the four cardinal compass points within the temple.\n\nCapturing prisoners after a successful battle also provided victims for sacrifice, presumably to propitiate whatever deity had promised victory in the first place, although there is no record of the Maya initiating conflicts solely for this purpose as was apparently the case with the Aztecs. Modern analysis of the ancient Maya art indicates a large number of representations of prisoners of war that are now understood to be sacrificial victims: \"The analysis of the representations and sometimes of their context shows that the crossed-arms-on-the-chest gesture is associated with the concepts of submissiveness, captivity and death — in a word, sacrifice.\"\nMayanists believe that, like the Aztecs, the Maya performed child sacrifice in specific circumstances, most commonly as foundation dedications for temples and other structures. Maya art from the Classic period also depicts the extraction of children’s hearts during the ascension to the throne of the new king, or at the beginnings of the Maya calendar. In one of these cases, Stele 11 in Piedras Negras, Guatemala, a sacrificed boy can be seen. Other scenes of sacrificed boys are visible on jars.\n\nAs archeologists continue to excavate, more instances of child dedicatory sacrifices are being uncovered. A dig commenced in 1974 at the northern Belize site of Lamanai turned up the remains of five children, ranging in age from a newborn to about 8 years old:\"The conclusion that the five children were sacrificial victims is virtually inescapable... Nowhere else at Lamanai is there evidence of human sacrifice, either of children or adults... However, it is clear that the offering of children as part of the dedicatory activities that preceded the setting up of stelae was not uncommon at any time or place in the Maya lowlands.\"\nIn 2005 a mass grave of one- to two-year-old sacrificed children was found in the Maya region of Comalcalco. The sacrifices were apparently performed for dedicatory purposes when building temples at the Comalcalco acropolis.\n\nAn excavation at El Perú-Waka’ turned up the remains of an infant with, unusually, those of an adult male, in the presence of extensive evidence of feasting that had followed the expansion of a residence which had then been \"ensouled\" by the rituals and sacrifices. The analysis suggests that the \"interments show that human sacrifice was not limited to the royal actors associated with the Classic Maya state, but could be practiced by lesser elites as part of their own private ceremonies\"\n\nBoth blood and human sacrifice were ubiquitous in all cultures of pre-Columbian Mesoamerica, but beyond some uncontroversial generalisations there is no scholarly consensus on the broader questions (and specific mysteries) this raises. Most scholars agree that both practices arose among the Olmecs at least 3,000 years ago, and have been transmitted to subsequent cultures, including the Maya. Why they arose among the Olmecs is unknown, and probably unknowable, given the paucity of data.\n\nBlood, and by extension the still-beating heart, is the central element in both the ethnography and iconography of sacrifice, and its use through ritual established or renewed for the Maya a connection with the sacred that was for them essential to the very existence of the natural order. Julian Lee’s observation that the Maya \"drew no sharp distinction between the animate and the inanimate\" and the remarks by Pendergast and others that sacrifices \"ensouled\" buildings and idols indicates a social meaning, as Reilly suggests, most akin to transubstantiation – a literal rather than symbolic transformation on which the fate of the world and its inhabitants depended.\n\nAs with all known theocratic societies, it is likely the Maya political and religious elites played mutually reinforcing roles in supporting the position of the other and ensuring the social stability essential for both, with sacrifice rituals functioning as the performative centrepiece of communal integration. But on likely divergences of interests between different social groups in regard to sacrifice rituals, including within these elites, the historical record has so far been silent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24243160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24243160", "title": "Self religion", "text": "Self religion\n\nA self religion (or self-religion) is a religious or self-improvement group which has as one of its primary aims the improvement of the self. The term \"self religion\" was coined by Paul Heelas and other scholars of religion have adopted/adapted the description. King's College scholar Peter Bernard Clarke builds on Heelas's concept of self religion to describe the class of \"Religions of the True Self\".\n\nHanegraaff notes that \"self religion\" may equate to New Age spirituality in general. and author Michael York writes, \"If 'self-religion' means personal exegesis and selection by the individual, the general rubric is applicable to trends in the late modern/early postmodern transition, which encompass much more than simply New Age and Neo-pagan religiosities.\" Eileen Barker, in her 1999 book \" New Religious Movements: their incidence and significance\", said that they were \"toward the New Age end of the NRM spectrum\". Massimo Introvigne, an Italian sociologist of religion, describe \"self religion\" as \"a deep but vague and unorganized interest in the sacred\".\n\nGroups characterized as (or associated with the concepts of) self religions or \"religions of the True Self\" include:\n\n"}
{"id": "5332942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5332942", "title": "Sheikh (Sufism)", "text": "Sheikh (Sufism)\n\nA Sheikh or sheik (Arabic: شيخ shaykh; ; pl. شيوخ shuyūkh), of Sufism is a Sufi who is authorized to teach, initiate and guide aspiring dervishes in the islamic faith. The sheik is vital to the path of the novice Sufi, for the sheik has himself travelled the path of mysticism. Viewed as the spiritual master, the sheik forms a formal allegiance (bay'a) to the disciple of Sufism and authorizes the disciple's travels and helps the disciple along the mystical path. Islamic tradition focuses on the importance of chains and legitimization. In Sufism, sheiks are connected by a continuous spiritual chain (isnad, sanad, silsila). This chain links every previous Sufi sheik, and eventually can be traced back to the Successors, and in later times to the Prophet himself. As Sufism grew, influential shayks began to acquire spiritual centers and waypoints known as khanqah, ribat, and zaouia. Sheikhs duplicate the Prophetic realities, and are also expected to perform and act as an intermediary between the Creator and the created, since the sheikh has arrived close to God through his meditations and spiritual travels. There are several types of such sheikh.\n\nThis can, for example, be someone who inherits leadership of a group of Sufis, who although he does not have the spiritual standing of a genuine sheik of Tarbiyah (Instruction) nevertheless has a blessing in that by holding to him his followers have unity and community, as is in the Noble Hadith, \"The hand of Allah is with the group (jama'ah).\"\n\nThis is a sheik who has genuine tasting of the states of Sufism and can transmit them.\n\nThis is properly the correct usage of the term sheik according to the Sufis. This is the realised gnostic ('arif) of Allah, who has been granted idhn (permission and authorisation) by God(Allah), to lead the followers of the path of Sufism to knowledge of Allah. This idhn is not to be confused with ijazah (authorisation) granted by a sheik or a scholar to a student to teach. Even if all of the scholars and sheiks granted their ijazah to a student, he would still not be a sheik of Instruction until he had the idhn of Allah and Muhammad. This is manifest in his tawfiq or 'success' in inculcating the perfections of Islam, iman and ihsan in his disciples [point 8, below].\n\nThe sheik of Sufism derives authority and social standing from his sacred knowledge. Students would be taught this knowledge in inner religious circles located in private homes and in mosques, hoping to create an atmosphere of refined religious thought that would safeguard the transmission of religious knowledge. By studying the Hadith and Sunnah in these circles, the students would learn proper decorum and etiquette. From this the Sufi sheiks would establish a set or rituals and practices that would perpetuate the culture of Sufi learning, based upon the Sunnah. Having personal contact with a sheik allows both Sufis and the ulama to stimulate a culture of religious learning. The legitimacy of the sheik is based on the unbroken chain of authors or other sheiks. The shorter the chain the more authoritative the person becomes. Teaching-sheiks provided their disciples with religious instruction as well as theology. During this time student travelled and interacted with different teacher-sheiks. Sufi sheiks flourished throughout the Islamic world more than any other type of personal authority because their mediatory skills were required for the smooth functioning of an agrarian-nomadic economy with a decentralized form of government.\n\nWith the advent of institutionalized Sufism in the ninth century came the changed relationship between disciple and sheik. This came at a time in the Islamic world when other institutions were spreading to an ever far-reaching Islamic world, and were facing a collapsing caliphal empire. The sheik became a more authoritative figure, and become synonymous with prophetic traits as well as a totally functional leader. The sheik took on a new role as a permanent and known teacher, not a teaching-guide to a group of disciples. The sheik had permanent residence in a lodge and surrounded himself with his students. The disciples would live with the sheik and would follow the sheiks rules and prescribed behaviors. The lodge became an integral part of the Muslim community, as it maintained land holdings and also supported economic activities in cities. The directing-sheik became an authority for those seeking training and a strengthening of their moral and intellectual character. The shift from teaching-sheik to directing-sheik brought about an unprecedented focus on decorum (adab). Directing-sheiks core characteristic was set within the Sufi context of training others to approach God more closely and intimately. Overall the experience of learning the mystical path of Sufism underneath the guise of the directing-sheik was much more intense than that of the teacher-sheik.\n\nThe importance of lineage in Sufism is exhibited by one such example as the Khirka. Khirka literally meaning, \"Rough cloak, scapular, coarse gown\". The cloak acts as an initiation process in Sufism in which the sheik puts his khirka on the disciple, or known as \"Investiture with the Cloak\". This acts as the manifestation of blessings being transmitted from sheik to disciple. The act is reminiscent of when the Prophet Muhammad placed a cloak over Ali. This process solidifies the sheik-disciple relationship and creates an allegiance. After this process the disciple is able to join the Sufi order and continue studying underneath the sheik.\n\nSilsila is used in Sufism to describe the continuous spiritual chain that links Sufi orders and sheiks in a lineage relating back to the Prophet Muhammad and his Companions.\n\nThe basic requirements for a person to be a Sufi sheik are as follows.\n\n\nThe customary position with the people of Sufism, particularly in the Shadhili and the Darqawi tariqah, is that a person will not be a sheik without having had a background in the basic disciplines of the Qur'an and Sunna. This is the position of Imam Junayd. However, in unusual circumstances there have been exceptions to this rule, among them the famous wali, Abd al-Aziz ad-Dabbagh of Fez, and in the Darqawi tariqah, the sheik Sidi al-'Arabi ibn al-Huwari from whom sheik Muhammad ibn al-Habib took the tariqah, and most famously sheik Ahmad al-Alawi, a master of Sufism whom all accept without reservation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1119736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1119736", "title": "Takuhatsu", "text": "Takuhatsu\n\nTakuhatsu (托鉢) is a traditional form of dāna or alms given to Buddhist monks in Japan. In the practice of takuhatsu, monks travel to various businesses and residences in order to exchange chanting of sutras in Sino-Japanese (generating merit) for donations of food and money.\n\nMonks generally wear traditional takuhatsu clothes reminiscent of medieval Japanese garb and wear the names of their monasteries on their satchels to confirm their identities. This system is used by Zen monks who are in training, to beg for their food. This is generally done in groups of ten to fifteen. The group goes through the street single-file, chanting , and sympathizers come down and fill their alms bowls. This is the monks offering of the Dharma and their lives of guardians of the Dharma to the people. According to Zen tradition, the givers should be grateful.\n\n"}
{"id": "2163846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2163846", "title": "The Culture of Disbelief", "text": "The Culture of Disbelief\n\nThe Culture of Disbelief () is a 1994 book by Stephen L. Carter. In it, he holds that religion in the United States is trivialized by American law and politics, and that those with a strong religious faith are forced to bend to meet the viewpoint of a \"public faith\" which is largely faithless. Carter argues that there is a place for faith in public life, while still adhering to the separation of church and state.\n"}
{"id": "24520970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24520970", "title": "The Grimoire of Pope Honorius", "text": "The Grimoire of Pope Honorius\n\nThe Grimoire of Pope Honorius, or Le Grimoire du Pape Honorius, is an 18th to 19th century grimoire, claiming to be written by Pope Honorius III (1150 - 1227). It is unique among grimoires in that it was specifically designed to be used by a priest, and some of the instructions include saying a Mass. While its name is derived from the 13th century \"Grimoire of Honorius\", its content is closer to later grimories like the \"Key of Solomon\" and \"Grimorium Verum\". \n\n"}
{"id": "17238677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17238677", "title": "Theology of Pope Pius XII", "text": "Theology of Pope Pius XII\n\nThe theology of Pope Pius XII comprised forty-one encyclicals, as well as speeches and nearly 1000 messages, during his long pontificate. The encyclicals \"Mystici corporis\" and \"Mediator Dei\" clarified membership and participation in the Church. The encyclical \"Divino afflante Spiritu\" opened the doors for biblical research. But his magisterium was far larger and is difficult to summarize. In numerous speeches Catholic teaching is related to various aspects of life, education, medicine, politics, war and peace, the life of saints, Mary, the mother of God, things eternal and temporal.\n\nAddressing the problems of racism and anti-semitism in 1939, Pius XII said:\nWhat a wonderful vision, which makes us contemplate the human race in the unity of its origin in God in the unity of its nature, composed equally in all men of a material body and a spiritual soul; in the unity of its immediate end and its mission in the world; in the unity of its dwelling, the earth, whose benefits all men, by right of nature, may use to sustain and develop life; in the unity of the redemption wrought by Christ for all. (\"Summi Pontificatus\", 3)\n\nIn this first of his encyclicals, Summi Pontificatus, he developed a main theme of his pontificate. Christianity is universal, and therefore opposed to racial or national hostility and superiority. He continues this theme in other encyclicals, such as \"Mystici corporis\" and \"Mediator Dei\", and in numerous speeches and addresses. There are no racial differences because the human race forms a unity, for \"from one ancestor [God] made all nations to inhabit the whole earth\".\n\nNations, despite a difference of development due to diverse conditions of life and of culture, are not destined to break the unity of the human race, but rather to enrich and embellish it by the sharing of their own peculiar gifts and by a reciprocal interchange. All races, the whole human race, are loved by Christ without exception or exclusion. Differences in nationality and race do not matter. True love means loving all, if they are Catholic, Christian, or not.\n\n\nThe Church is called body, because she is a living entity, she is called the body of Christ, because Christ is her Head and Founder; she is called mystical body, because she is neither a purely physical nor a purely spiritual unity, but super national. Pius XII builds on a theological development in the 1920s and 1930s in Italy, France, Germany and England, which all re-discovered the ancient Pauline concept of the Mystical Body of Christ. Pius XII utilized these new discoveries and authoritatively added his directions to them, as the Dutch Jesuit Sebastian Tromp documented.\n\nThe Church has two aspects, a visible and an invisible one. Full membership have those who live under the visible representative of Christ. The relation of the faithful with Christ is mystical, not physical. The faithful, through their faith hope and love, are united with Christ in the Church. Christ loves and lives in the faithful. Christ and the Church as the whole Church, which is alive through the Holy Spirit. Each of the faithful is guided by the Holy Spirit and therefore an equal and important element of the body of Christ. The unification with Christ takes place in the Holy Eucharist. Within the Church, there exist not an active and passive element, leadership and lay people. All members of the Church are called to work on the perfection of the body of Christ.\n\n\nIn his encyclical Mediator Dei, Pope Pius links liturgy with the last will of Christ.\n\nThe Church has, therefore, according to Pius XII, a common aim with Christ himself, teaching all men the truth, and, offering to God a pleasing and acceptable sacrifice. This way, the Church re-establishes the unity between the Creator and His creatures, a unity which turns strangers and foreigners; but you are fellow citizens of Christ. The sacrifice of the altar, being Christ's own actions, convey and dispense divine grace from Christ to the members of the Mystical Body.\n\nLiturgy requires participation of The faithful. Pius rejects the widespread Catholic practices of private and interior devotions by individuals during Holy Mass as sterile. They separate the faithful \"from the sacrifice of the altar, and from the stream of vital energy that flows from Head to members\". Catholic worship offers to God a joint profession of Catholic faith and a continuous exercise of hope and charity. The entire liturgy, therefore, has the Catholic faith as its content.\n\nThe numerous Liturgy reforms of Pius XII show two characteristics. Renewal and the rediscovery of old liturgical traditions, such as the reintroduction of the Easter Vigil, and, a more structured atmosphere within the Church buildings. The use of vernacular language, accepted in certain cases by Pope Pius, was hotly debated at his time. He increased non-Latin services, especially in countries with expanding Catholic mission activities. After the Dogma of the Assumption, a new mass formula was introduced for the festivities 15 August. The \"Sacred Congregation of Rites\" had jurisdiction over the Rites and ceremonies of the Latin Church, such as Holy Mass, sacred functions and divine worship. The location of the Blessed Sacrament within the Church, to be always at the main altar in the centre of the Church. The Church should display religious objects, but not be overloaded with secondary objects or even Kitsch. Modern sacred art should be reverential and reflect the spirit of our time. Priests are permitted to officiate marriages without Holy Mass. They may also officiate confirmations in certain instances.\n\nIn 1893, Pope Leo XIII issued in \"Providentissimus Deus\" instructions for biblical research. Fifty years later, Pius XII recalls the progress made. In his encyclical \"Divino afflante Spiritu\", published in 1943 he encouraged Christian theologians to revisit original versions of the Bible in Greek and Hebrew. Noting improvements in archaeology, the encyclical reversed Pope Leo XIII's encyclical, which had only advocated going back to the original texts to resolve ambiguity in the Latin Vulgate. The encyclical demands a much better understanding of ancient Jewish history and traditions. It requires bishops throughout the Church to initiate biblical studies for lay people. The Pontiff also requests a reorientation of Catholic teaching and education, relying much more on sacred scriptures in sermons and religious instruction.\n\nThe 1854 dogma of the Immaculate Conception by Pius IX defined the Virgin conceived without sin, as the mother of God and our mother. Pope Pius XII built on this in \"Mystici corporis\", which summarizes his mariology: Maria, whose sinless soul was filled with the divine spirit of Jesus Christ above all other created souls, \"in the name of the whole human race\" gave her consent \"for a spiritual marriage between the Son of God and human nature.\", thus elevating human nature beyond the realm of the purely material. She who, according to the flesh, was the mother of our Head, became mother of all His members. Through her powerful prayers, she obtained that the spirit of our Divine Redeemer, should be bestowed on the newly founded Church at Pentecost. She is Most Holy Mother of all the members of Christ, and reigns in heaven with her Son, her body and soul refulgent with heavenly glory.\n\nOn 1 November 1950, Pope Pius XII defined the dogma of the assumption:\n\nThe dogma of the bodily assumption of the Virgin Mary, is the crowning of the theology of Pope Pius XII. It was preceded by the 1946 encyclical Deiparae Virginis Mariae, which requested all Catholic bishops to express their opinion on a possible dogmatization. In this dogmatic statement, the phrase \"having completed the course of her earthly life, \" leaves open the question of whether the Virgin Mary died before her Assumption, or, whether she was assumed before death; both possibilities are allowed. Mary's Assumption was a divine gift to Mary as Mother of God. As Mary completed her race as a shining example to the human race, the perspective of the gift of assumption is offered to the whole human race.\n\nAs a young boy and in later life Eugenio Pacelli was an ardent follower of the Virgin Mary. On 8 September 1953, the encyclical Fulgens corona announced a Marian year for 1954, the centennial of the Dogma of the Immaculate Conception . Pope Pius XII left open the Mediatrix question, the role of the Virgin in the salvation acts of her son Jesus Christ. In the encyclical Ad caeli reginam he promulgated the feast, Queenship of Mary. Pius XII, who was consecrated on 13 May 1917, the very day, Our Lady of Fatima is believed to have first appeared, consecrated the world to the Immaculate Heart of Mary in 1942, in accordance with the second \"secret\" of Our Lady of Fatima. (His remains were to be buried in the crypt of Saint Peter Basilica on the feast day of Our Lady of Fatima, 13 October 1958)\n\nPius XII delivered numerous speeches to medical professionals and researchers. Pio XII, \"Discorsi Ai Medici\" compiles 700 pages of specific addresses. Pope Pius XII addressed doctors, nurses, midwives, to detail all aspects of rights and dignity of patients, medical responsibilities, moral implications of psychological illnesses and the uses of psycho pharmaca, but also issues of uses of medicine in terminally ill persons, medical lies in face of grave illness, and the rights of family members to make decisions against expert medical advice. Pope Pius XII went often new ways, thus he was first to determine that the use of pain medicine in terminally ill patients is justified, even if this may shorten the life of the patient, as long as life shortening is not the objective itself.\n\nOther topics were the behaviour of medical doctors, facing pain and death, sterilisation, genetics, artificial insemination, painless child birth, the multiple moral aspects of developing medical technologies, morality in applied psychology, moral limits to medical research and treatment, and cancer treatment of children, and more.\n\nPope Pius XII fully accepted the rhythm method as a moral form of family planning, although only limited circumstances, within the context of family. Some Catholics interpreted the 1930 encyclical \"Casti connubii\" by Pope Pius XI to allow moral use of the rhythm method, and internal rulings of the Catholic Church in 1853 and 1880 stated that periodic abstinence was a moral way to avoid pregnancy. Some historians consider these two speeches by Pius XII to be the first explicit Church acceptance of the method.\n\nIn his speech to mid-wives, Pope Pius XII offered this understanding of sexual pleasures: \"The Creator himself... established that in the [generative] function, spouses should experience pleasure and enjoyment of body and spirit. Therefore, the spouses do nothing evil in seeking this pleasure and enjoyment. They accept what the Creator has intended for them. At the same time, spouses should know how to keep themselves within the limits of just moderation.\"\n\nTo Pius XII, \"The conscience is the innermost and most secret nucleus of man. There he withdraws with his intellectual capacities into complete separation, alone with himself or better, alone with God, whose voice echoes in his conscience. There he decides over good or bad. There chooses between victory or defeat. The conscience is therefore, to use an old, venerable picture, a sanctuary, on whose entrance all must stop.\" This respect applies to children and even more to adults: \"It is correctly argued, that the true meaning of adult independence is not to be led like a little Child.\"\n\nVatican II picked up this quote on conscience from Pius XII verbatim in \"Lumen gentium\", and concluded: \"By conscience, in a wonderful way, that law is recognized, which is fulfilled in the love of God and neighbour.\" Since 1993, the Magisterium of the Church explicitly highlights this particular view of Pope Pius XII, quoting it as an element of the official Catholic Catechism.\n\nThe Catholic Church's modern view on family planning was further developed in the 1968 encyclical \"Humanae Vitae\" by Pope Paul VI and in Pope Benedict XVI's 2005 encyclical \"Deus caritas est\".\n\nTo Pius XII, science and religion were heavenly sisters, different manifestations of divine exactness, who could not possibly contradict each other over the long term Regarding their relation, his advisor Professor Robert Leiber wrote: \"Pius XII was very careful not to close any doors prematurely. He was energetic on this point and regretted that in the case of Galileo.\" Preceding similar praises from Pope John Paul II in 1992, Pope Pius XII listed, in 1939, Galileo in his first speech to the Pontifical Academy of Sciences to be among \"most audacious heroes of research...not afraid of the stumbling blocks and the risks on the way, nor fearful of the funereal monuments\"\n\nPius commenting on \"the state and nature of original matter\" acknowledges that science declares this to be an \"insoluble enigma\" but continues, that \"it seems that science of today, by going back in one leap millions of centuries, has succeeded in being witness to that primordial \"Fiat Lux\" when, out of nothing, there burst forth with matter a sea of light and radiation, while the particles of chemical elements split and reunited in million of galaxies\" Pius continued, that these facts need further investigation, and theories founded upon them need \"new developments and proofs in order to offer a secure basis for reasoning\".\n\nIn 1950, Pope Pius XII teaches, there is no sufficient basis for a comprehensive belief in evolution, because the facts are still missing. Catholic religion can take evolution theory into account at some time:\n\"This certainly would be praiseworthy in the case of clearly proved facts; but caution must be used when there is rather question of hypotheses, having some sort of scientific foundation, in which the doctrine contained in Sacred Scripture or in Tradition is involved\".\n\nThe encyclical took up a nuanced position with regard to evolution: The question of the origin of man's body from pre-existing and living matter is a legitimate matter of inquiry for natural science. Catholics are free to form their own opinions, but they should do so cautiously; they should not confuse fact with conjecture, and they should respect the Church's right to define matters touching on Revelation \"For these reasons the Teaching Authority of the Church does not forbid that, in conformity with the present state of human sciences and sacred theology, research and discussions, on the part of men experienced in both fields, take place with regard to the doctrine of evolution, in as far as it inquires into the origin of the human body as coming from pre-existent and living matter – for the Catholic faith obliges us to hold that souls are immediately created by God\".\n\nThus Pius acknowledged in 1950, that evolution might accurately describe the biological origins of human life, but at the same time criticized those who use it as a religion, who \"imprudently and indiscreetly hold that evolution... explains the origin of all things\". While \"Humani generis\" was significant as the first occasion on which a pope explicitly addressed the topic of evolution at length, it did not represent a change in doctrine for the Roman Catholic Church. As early as 1868, Cardinal John Henry Newman wrote, \"the theory of Darwin, true or not, is not necessarily atheistic; on the contrary, it may simply be suggesting a larger idea of divine providence and skill.\"\n\nPope John Paul II went further in acknowledging the success of evolutionary theory in his 1996 \"Message to Pontifical Academy of Sciences\". He called evolution \"more than a hypothesis\" and said, \"It is indeed remarkable that this theory has been progressively accepted by researchers, following a series of discoveries in various fields of knowledge, but maintained the line of his predecessor, Pope Pius XII, regarding the origin of the soul in God.\"\n\nThe encyclical issues a clear no to another scientific opinion popular at the time, polygenism, \"the scientific hypothesis that mankind descended from a group of original humans.\"\n\nThe pontificate of Pius XII was the first in Vatican history to publish papal speeches and addresses in vernacular language on a systematic basis. Until then, papal documents were issued mainly in Latin in Acta Apostolicae Sedis since 1909. Because of the novelty of it all, and a feared occupation of the Vatican by the German Wehrmacht, not all documents exist today. In 1944, a number of papal documents were burned or \"walled in\", to avoid detection by the advancing German army. Insisting that all publications must be reviewed by him on a prior basis to avoid any misunderstanding, several speeches by Pius XII, who did not find sufficient time, were never published or appeared only once issued in the Vatican daily, Osservatore Romano. An array of sources exists today, not all of them available in English. This applies especially to the many speeches and addresses to various groups. Available are:\nA small percentage of the Pope Pius XII publications are available on internet on the Vatican Website.\n\nPope Pius XII canonized numerous saints, including Pope Pius X and Maria Goretti. He beatified Pope Innocent XI. The first canonizations were two women, the founder of a female order, Mary Euphrasia Pelletier, and mystic Gemma Galgani. Pelletier had a reputation for opening new ways for Catholic charities, helping people in difficulties with the law, who so far were neglected by the system and the Church. Galgani was a rather unknown girl whose virtue became model by her canonization.\n"}
{"id": "27265022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27265022", "title": "Thero", "text": "Thero\n\nThero (commonly appearing in the masculine and feminine forms thera and therī respectively) is an honorific term in Pali for senior bhikkhus and bhikkhunis (Buddhist monks and nuns) in the Buddhist monastic order. The word literally means \"elder\". These terms, appearing at the end of a monastic's given name, are used to distinguish those who have at least 10 years since their \"upasampada\" (higher ordination). The name of an important collection of very early Buddhist poetry is called the \"Therigatha\", \"verses of the \"therīs\"\".\n\nThe terms mahāthera and mahātherī are used to refer to very distinguished elderly and venerable monks and nuns considered to have reached a higher level of spiritual development.\n\nUsage of these terms varies according to the Buddhist tradition and culture. In Sri Lanka, these terms are widely used.\n\nSome prominent theras and therīs:\n\n"}
{"id": "95252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95252", "title": "Ulanji", "text": "Ulanji\n\nIn Australian Aboriginal mythology, Ulanji is a snake-ancestor of the Binbinga. He bit the heads off some flying foxes and took out two of their ribs and their heart.\n"}
{"id": "7865082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7865082", "title": "Venkateswara Temple, Tirumala", "text": "Venkateswara Temple, Tirumala\n\nVenkateswara Temple is a landmark Vaishnavite temple situated in the hill town of Tirumala at Tirupati in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh, India. The Temple is dedicated to Lord Sri Venkateswara, an incarnation of Vishnu, who is believed to have appeared here to save mankind from trials and troubles of Kali Yuga. Hence the place has also got the name Kaliyuga Vaikuntham and the Lord here is referred to as Kaliyuga Prathyaksha Daivam. The temple is also known by other names like Tirumala Temple, Tirupati Temple, Tirupati Balaji Temple. Lord Venkateswara is known by many other names: Balaji, Govinda, and Srinivasa.\n\nTirumala Hills are part of Seshachalam Hills range. The hills are above sea level. The Hills comprises seven peaks, representing the seven heads of Adisesha. The temple lies on the seventh peak -Venkatadri, on the southern banks of Sri Swami Pushkarini, a holy water tank. Hence the temple is also referred to as \"Temple of Seven Hills\". Tirumala town covers about in area.\n\nThe Temple is constructed in Dravidian architecture and is believed to be constructed over a period of time starting from 300 AD. The Garbagriha (Sanctum Sanctorum) is called AnandaNilayam. The presiding deity, Venkateswara, is in standing posture and faces east in Garbha griha. The temple follows Vaikhanasa Agama tradition of worship. The temple is one of the eight Vishnu Swayambhu Kshetras and is listed as 106th and the last earthly Divya Desam. The Temple premises had two modern Queue complex buildings to organize the pilgrim rush, Tarigonda Vengamamba Annaprasadam complex for free meals to Pilgrims, hair tonsure buildings and a number of pilgrim lodging sites.\n\nIt is the richest temple in the world in terms of donations received and wealth. The temple is visited by about 50,000 to 100,000 pilgrims daily (30 to 40 million people annually on average), while on special occasions and festivals, like the annual Brahmotsavam, the number of pilgrims shoots up to 500,000, making it the most-visited holy place in the world.. In 2016, it was reported that 27.3 million pilgrims visited the temple.\nIt is around from Vijayawada, from Hyderabad, from Chennai, from Bangalore, and from Visakhapatnam\n\nThere are several legends associated with the manifestation of the Lord in Tirumala. According to one legend, the temple has a murti (deity) of Lord Venkateswara, which it is believed shall remain here for the entire duration of the present Kali Yuga.\n\nDuring Dvapara Yuga, Adisesha resided on earth as Seshachalam Hills after losing a contest with Vayu. According to Puranas, Tirumala is regarded as Adivaraha Kshetra. After killing Hiranyaksha, Adivaraha resided on this hill. Sri Venkatachala Mahatyam is the widely accepted legend over Tirumala Temple.\n\nDuring Kali Yuga, Narada advised Rishis who were performing Yajna to decide who could be given the fruits of yagna among Trimurtis. Bhrigu was sent to test Trimurtis. The sage who had an extra eye in the sole of his foot visited Lord Brahma and Lord Shiva and went unnoticed in both these locations. At last he visited Vishnu and the lord acts as if he had not noticed Bhrigu. Getting angered by this act, sage Bhrigu kicked Lord Vishnu in the chest, to which Vishnu did not react and instead apologized to the Sage by massaging his feet. During this act, he squashed the extra eye that was present in the sole of Bhrigu's foot. However Lakshmi finds it as an insult and had left Vaikuntam onto Earth to Kolhapur and started meditating.\n\nLord Vishnu bore human form as Srinivasa, left Vaikuntam, in search of Lakshmi, reached Tirumala Hills and started meditating. Lakshmi came to know about the condition of Srinivasa and prayed to Siva and Brahma. Siva and Brahma then converted themselves into Cow and Calf and Goddess Lakshmi had handed over the cow and calf to Chola king ruling over Tirumala Hills at that time. The Cow would provide milk to Srinivasa daily while it was taken for grazing. One day Cowherd saw this and tried to beat the Cow with staff but Lord Srinivasa had borne the injury. Getting angered by this Srinivasa had cursed the Chola king to become a Demon as dharma says Servants sin should be borne by Kings. The king prayed for mercy after which Srinivasa said to him, that the King should take next birth as Akasaraja and should perform marriage of his daughter Padmavati with Srinivasa.\n\nLord Srinivasa went to his mother Vakula Devi on Tirumala hills and stayed there for a while. After curse Chola king took rebirth as Akasaraja and he had a daughter named Padmavati who was born in the Padmapushkarini situated at present day Tiruchanur in Andhra Pradesh. Lord Srinivasa married Padmavati at present day Narayanavanam in Andhra Pradesh and will return to Tirumala Hills. After few months Goddess Lakshmi had come to know about the marriage of Srinivasa with Padamavati and went to Tirumala hills to question Srinivasa. It is said that the Lord srinivasa turns into Stone right when he was encountered by Lakshmi and Padmavathi. Lord Brahma and Shiva appear before the confused queens and explain the main purpose behind all this - The Lord's desire to be on the 7 hills for the emancipation of mankind from the perpetual troubles of Kali Yuga. Goddesses Lakshmi and Padmavathi also turn into stone deities expressing their wish to be with their Lord always. Lakshmi stays with Him on His Chest on the left side while Padmavathi rests on His Chest's right side.\n\nThe first recorded endowment was made by Pallava queen Samavai in the year 966 CE. She donated many jewels and two parcels of land(one 10 acres and other 13 acres) and ordered to use the revenues generated from that land to be used for the celebration of major festivals in the temple. The Pallava dynasty(9th century), the Chola dynasty(10th century), and Vijayanagara pradhans (14th and 15th centuries) were committed devotees of Lord Venkateswara. The temple gained most of its current wealth and size under the Vijayanagara Empire, with the donation of diamonds and gold. In 1517, Vijayanagara Emperor Krishnadevaraya, on one of his many visits to the temple, donated gold and jewels, enabling the Ananda Nilayam (inner shrine) roofing to be gilded. After the decline of Vijayanagara Empire, leaders from states such as the Kingdom of Mysore and the Gadwal Samsthanam worshiped as pilgrims and gave ornaments and valuables to the temple. Maratha general Raghoji I Bhonsle (died 1755) visited the temple and set up a permanent administration for the conduct of worship in the temple.\n\nAfter the dusk of Vijayanagara Empire, the temple went into the hands of Golconda in July 1656 and then it was under the French for a short period of time and under Nawab of Carnatic till 1801 CE. With the advent of British during the early 19th century, the management of the temple passed to hands of East India Company, who accorded special status to temple and avoided interference in temple activities. Madras government passed Regulation seven of 1817, which passed the temple to Board of Revenue through collector of North Arcot District. In 1821, Bruce of England had drawn rules for the management of Temple which is referred to as \"Bruce's Code\".\n\nIn 1843 the East India Company transferred the Administration of Temple along with other Temples in Tirupati to Mahants of Hathiramji Muth, who acted as Vicaranakartas. It was under the rule of Mahants for six generations until 1933 when Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams was formed as a result of the TTD Act in 1933. The Act of 1933 was superseded by Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Act of 1951. Again in 1966, the temple was placed under direct control of Andhra pradesh State Endowments Department, with Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments act. In 1979, act of 1966 was rolled back with new Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams act, where temple administration was vested to a committee consisting of Executive officer, Chairman and two other members nominated by Government of Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThis Temple bears on its walls several inscriptions which are of historical, cultural and linguistic importance. The number of inscriptions on the Hill Temple and in the temples of Lower Tirupati and Tiruchanur exceed one thousand. There is evidence to suggest that many early inscriptions on the walls of the temples have disappeared beyond recovery. As many as 640 inscriptions are found engraved on the walls of the temple. They are published by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams along with the inscriptions found in other related temples in and around Tirupati. All the inscriptions are in Tamil, Telugu and Kannada.\n\nAdditionally, in the temple, there is a unique collection of about 3000 copper plates on which the Telugu Sankirtanas of Tallapaka Annamacharya and his descendants are inscribed. This collection forms a valuable source of material for a historical linguist in Telugu apart from its importance to musicologists.\n\nUnder the patronage of almost all important dynasties of South India, this sacred Temple of Tirumala enjoyed full benefits and glory. The Pallavas, the Cholas, the Pandyas, Kadavarayas, Yadavarayas, Telugu Cholas, Telugu Pallavas, Vijayanagara kings (Sangama, Saluva and Tuluva lines) have left the marks of their patronage and endowments on the walls of the temples of Tirumala and Tirupati. \n\nThe 7th Nizam of Hyderabad, also made donations towards the temple.\n\nTirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) is the trust board which oversees and manages the operations of Tirumala Venkateswara Temple. It is operated by a Board of Trustees that has increased in size from five (1951) to eighteen (2015) through the adoption of Acts. The daily operation and management of TTD is the responsibility of an executive officer who is appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe temple attracts approximately 75,000 pilgrims every day. The annual budget, estimated at INR 2530.10 Crores for the financial year 2015-16, runs charitable trusts whose funds are derived from the budget and donations from the devotees. The annual income is estimated at INR 10 billion in 2008. Most of its income is derived from the donations in SriVari Hundi.\nDevotees donate to the TTD, which runs into millions of rupees. TTD, the organisation running the welfare of the temple, runs various charitable trusts, whose funds are derived from the budget and donations from the devotees.\n\nDwarams and Prakarams\n\nThere are three Dwarams(entrances) which lead to \"Garbhagriha\" from outside. \"Mahadwaram\" also known as \"padikavali\" is the first entrance which is provided through \"Mahaprakaram\"(outer compound wall). A 50 feet, five storied Gopuram(Temple tower) is constructed over this Mahadwaram with seven Kalasams at its apex. \"Vendivakili\"(Silver Entrance) also known as \"Nadimipadikavali\" is the second entrance and is provided through \"SampangiPrakaram\"(Inner compound wall). A three storied Gopuram is constructed over Vendivakili with seven Kalasams at its apex. \"Bangaruvakili\"(Golden Entrance) is the third entrance which will lead into \"Garbhagriha\". There are two tall copper images of the Dvarapalakas Jaya-Vijaya on either side of this door. The thick wooden door is covered with gold gilt plates depicting the Dasavathaaram of Vishnu.\n\nPradakshinams\n\nCircumambulation around Sanctum sanctorum in the temple or deities is called Pradakshinam. There are two circumbulation paths in the temple. The first one is area between \"Mahaprakaram\" and \"sampangiprakaram\". This path known as \"Sampangipradakshinam\" has many Mandapas, Dwajasthambam, Balipeetam, Kshetrapalika sila, prasadam distribution area etc. The \"Vimanapradakhinam\" is the second \"pradakshinam\", which circumbulates \"Ananda Nilayam Vimanam\". This path has sub-shrines dedicted to Varadaraja and Yoga Narasimha, Potu(main kitchen), Bangaru Bavi(golden well), Ankurarpana Mandapam, Yagasala, Nanala (coins and Notla (Paper notes) Parkamani, Almyrah of Sandal paste (Chandanapu ara), cell of records, Sannidhi Bhashyakarulu, Lords’s hundi and the seat of Vishvaksena.\n\nAnandanilayam vimanam and Garbhagriha\n\n\"Garbhagriha\" is the Sanctum sanctorum where the presiding deity Lord Venkateswara resides along with other small deities. Golden Entrance leads to \"Garbhagriha\". There are two more doors in between \"Bangaruvakili\" and \"Garbhagriha\". The deity will be in a standing posture with four hands one in \"varada\" posture, one placed over thigh and other two holding \"Shanka\" and \"Sudarshana Chakra\". The deity is decorated with precious ornaments. The deity bears Goddess Lakshmi on the right chest and Goddess Padmavathi on the left. Pilgrims are not allowed to enter the \"Garbhagriha\"(beyond \"Kulasekharapadi\" (path))\n\n\"Ananda Nilayam Vimanam\" is the main Gopuram constructed over \"'Garbhagriha\". This is a three storied Gopuram and has single Kalasam at its apex. It was covered with gilt copper plates and covered with a golden vase. There are many deities of gods carved over this Gopuram. On this Gopuram, there is a deity of Venkateswara known as \"Vimana Venkateswara\" which is believed to be exact replica of deity inside \"Garbhagriha\".\n\nVenkateswara, an avatar of Vishnu is the presiding deity of the temple. It is believed that the Moolavirat is Swayambhu(self manifested).\nAs per Vaikanasa agamas, Venkateswara is represented by five deities(berams) including the Moolavirat which are together referred to as Pancha beramulu(Pancha means five;Beram means Deity). The five deities are Dhruva Beram(Moolavar), Kautuka Beram, Snapana Beram, Utsava Beram, Bali Beram. All the pancha berams are placed in the Garbha griha under Ananda Nilayam Vimanam.\n\n\nAlong with Pancha berams, garbha griha also hosts panchaloha deities of Sita, Rama, Lakshmana, Rukmini, Sri Krishna swamy, Chakratalwar. The temple hosts the deities of Garuda, Yoga Narasimha, Varadaraja, Kubera, Bedi Anjaneya in their respective sub-shrines. The temple also host the deities of Anantha, Garuda, Viswaksena, Sugriva, Ramanuja. Vimana Venkateswara is the exact replica idol of Venkateswara carved on the Ananda Nilayam Viamana's second teir north west corner.\n\nThe temple follows \"Vaikhanasa Agama\" tradition of worship, which is believed to be revealed by Sage Vikhanasa and is propagated by his disciples Atri, Bhrigu, Marichi, Kasyapa. Vaikhanasa is one of the principal traditions of Hinduism and primarily worships Vishnu (and his associated Avatars) as the Supreme God. This ancient texts recommends six times puja(worship) a day for Vishnu, of which minimum one puja is mandatory. Rituals are classified as daily, weekly and periodical. The daily sevas in Temple(in order of occurrence) include Suprabhata Seva, Thomala Seva, Archana, Kalyanotsavam, Dolotsavam (Unjal Seva), Arjita Brahmotsavam, Arjita Vasantotsavam, Sahasra Dipalankarana Seva, Ekanta Seva. Weekly sevas of the Temple include Vishesha Pooja on Monday, Ashtadala Pada Padmaradhana on Tuesday, Sahasra Kalasabhishekam on Wednesday, Tiruppavada Seva on Thursday, Abhishekam and Nijapada Darshanam on Friday. There are no weekly sevas on Saturday and Sunday. Periodical rituals include Jyesthabhishekam, Aaniwara Asthanam, Pavithrotsavam, Koil Alwar Tirumanjanam.\n\nThe world-famous \"Tirupati Laddu\" is given at Tirumala Temple as prasadam. Tirupati Laddu had got Geographical indication tag which entitles only Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams to make or sell it. Many other prasadams are also offered to Venkateswara which will then be distributed to devotees, including daddojanam (curd rice), puliohora (tamarind rice), vada and chakkera-pongali (sweet pongal), miryala-pongali, Appam, Paayasam, Jilebi, Muruku, Dosa, seera (kesari), Malhora. Free meals are given daily to the pilgrims. On Thursdays, the Tirupavada seva is conducted, where food items are kept as naivedyam to Lord Venkateswara. \n\nMore than 50,000 to 100,000 pilgrims have Darshan of preisding deity, Lord Venkateswara, while on special occasions and festivals, like the annual Brahmotsavams, the number of pilgrims visiting the temple shoots up to 500,000, making it the most-visited holy place in the world. To manage the huge number of Devotees visiting the temple, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam constructed two Vaikuntam Queue Complexes: one in the year 1983 and the other in the year 2000. Vaikuntam Queue complexes have rooms where Devotees can sit and wait until their turn for Darshan. According to tradition, it is important for a devotee to have darshan of Bhuvaraha swamy temple lying on the northern banks of Swami Pushkarini before having Darshan of Lord Venkateswara in the main temple.\n\nRecently, the administration introduced a separate queue for pedestrian pilgrims. Free but limited number of biometric tokens are issued for the pilgrims to access this special queue. Tokens are provided on a first-come, first-served basis. The pilgrims can worship Lord Venkateswara on the allotted time slots issued in the token. There are two entry points for the foot-path pilgrims: Alipiri Mettu and Srivari Mettu. Alipiri Mettu is open round the clock, whereas Srivari Mettu is open from 6am - 6pm.\n\nMany devotees have their head tonsured as \"Mokku\", an offering to God. The daily amount of hair collected is over a ton. As per legend, when Lord Venkateswara was hit on his head by a shepherd, a small portion of his scalp became bald. This was noticed by Neela Devi, a Gandharva princess. She felt \"such an attractive face should not have a flaw\". Immediately, she cut a portion of her hair and, with her magical power, implanted it on his scalp. Lord Venkateswara noticed her sacrifice. As hair is a beautiful asset of the female form, he promised her that all his devotees who come to his abode would offer their hair to him, and she would be the recipient of all the hair received. Hence, it is believed that hair offered by the devotees is accepted by Neela Devi. The hill, Neeladri, one of the seven hills, is named after her.\n\nAs per legend, it is believed that Srinivasa had to make arrangements for his wedding. Lord Kubera credited money to Lord Venkateswara (a form of the god Vishnu) for his marriage with Padmavathi. Srinivasa sought a loan of one crore and 11.4 million (11,400,000) coins of gold from Kubera and had Viswakarma, the divine architect, create heavenly surroundings in the Seshadri hills. Together, Srinivasa and Padmavathi lived for all eternity while Goddess Lakshmi, understanding the commitments of Lord Vishnu, chose to live in his heart forever. In remembrance of this, devotees go to Tirupati to donate money in Venkateswara's hundi (donation pot) so that he can pay it back to Kubera. The hundi collections go as high as 22.5 million INR a day.\n\nIn the Thulabaram ritual, a devotee sits on a pan of a weighing balance and the other pan is filled with materials greater than the weight of the devotee. Devotees usually offer sugar, jaggery, tulsi leaves, banana, gold, coins. This is mostly performed with newborn babies or children.\n\nTirumala Sri Venkateswara Temple is a paradise of Festivals where over 433 festivals are being observed in 365 days of a year suiting the title \"Nitya Kalyanam Paccha Toranam\" where every day is a festival.\n\nSri Venkateswara Brahmotsavams, a nine-day event, which is celebrated every year during month of October, is the major event of Sri Venkateswara Temple. During brahmotsavams the processional deity Malayappa along with his consorts SriDevi and BhuDevi, is taken in a procession in four mada streets around the temple on different vahanams. Vahanams include Dwajarohanam, Pedda Sesha Vahanam, Chinna Sesha Vahanam, Hamsa Vahanam, Simha Vahanam, Muthaypu pandiri Vahanam, Kalpavriksha Vahanam, Sarva Bhoopala Vahanam, Mohini Avataram, Garuda Vahanam, Hanumantha Vahanam, Swarna Rathotsavam(Golden Chariot), Gajavahanam, Rathotsavam(Chariot), Ashwa Vahanam, Chakra Snanam. During Brahmotsavams, The temple will witness lakhs of devotees particularly on Garuda vahanam. Vaikunta Ekadasi, the day on which it is believed that Vaikunta Dwarams will be opened and the most important Vasihnavite festival, is celebrated with grandeur in Tirumala. The Tirumala Venkateswara Temple will be flooded with devotees on a single day with numbers reaching up to 1.5 lakhs, to have a darshan of Venkateswara through special entrance which encircles inner sanctum called \"Vaikunta Dwaram\". Rathasapthami is another festival, celebrated during February, when Lord Venkateswara's processional deity(Malayappa) is taken in a procession around the temple on seven different vahanams starting from early morning to late night. The other annual festivals include Rama Navami, Janmashtami, Ugadi, Teppotsavam(Float Festival), Sri Padmavati Parinayotsavams, Pushpa yagam, Pushpa pallaki, Vasanthotsavam (spring festival) conducted in March–April, were celebrated with great splendor.\n\nSri Venkateswara Suprabhatam is the first and pre-dawn seva performed to Lord Venkateswara at Sayana Mandapam inside sanctum sanctorum of Tirumala Temple. 'Suprabhatam' is a Sanskrit term which literally means ‘Good Morning’ and is meant to wake up the Lord from His celestial sleep. Sri Venkateswara Suprabhatam hymns were composed by Prathivadhi Bhayankaram Annangaracharya during 13th century and consists of 70 slokas in four parts including Suprabhatam(29), Stotram(11), Prapatti(14) and Mangalasasanam(16). The thirteenth sloka of Sri venkateswara Suprabhatam is as follows:\nDevanagari<br>\n\nश्रीमन्नभीष्ट-वरदाखिललोक-बन्धो \nश्रीश्रीनिवास-जगदेकदयैकसिन्धो । \nश्रीदेवतागृहभुजान्तर-दिव्यमूर्ते \nश्रीवेङ्कटाचलपते तव सुप्रभातम् ॥ <br>\n\nIAST<br>\nśrīmannabhīṣṭavaradākhilalokabandho \nśrīśrīnivāsajagadekadayaikasindho । \nśrīdevatāgṛhabhujāntaradivyamūrte \nśrīveṅkaṭācalapate tava suprabhātam ॥ <br>\n\nTallapaka Annamacharya (Annamayya), the poet saint of 14th century, one of the greatest Telugu poets and a great devotee of Lord Venkateswara, had sung 32000 songs in praise of Lord Venkateswara. All his songs which are in Telugu and Sanskrit, are referred to as Sankirtanas and are classified as Sringara Sankirtanalu and Adhyatma Sankirtanalu.\n\nThe temple is located on seven hills. The presiding deity is also referred to as Sapthagirisha or Lord of Seven hills. It is believed that seven hills, also referred to as Saptagiri, represent the seven hoods of Adisesha. The seven hills are as follows:\n\nVaradaraja Temple\n\nVaradaraja Temple is a subshrine in Tirumala Venkateswara Temple dedicated to Vararaja Swamy an incarnation of Vishnu. It is not known when this deity was installed. The shrine is located in Vimanapradakshinam, towards left of Vendivakili(silver entrance) while entering temple. The stone deity is sitting posture facing west.\n\nYoga Narasimha Temple\n\nYoga Narasimha Temple is a sub-shrine dedicated to Narasimha Swamy an lion headed fourth-incarnation of Vishnu. The shrine is said to have been built between 1330 A.D. – 1360 A.D and is located in Vimanapradakshinam, towards right of Vendivakili(silver entrance) while entering temple. The deity is in sitting-meditating posture facing west.\n\nGaruthmantha Temple\n\nA small shrine dedicated to Garuda the vehicle of Lord Venkateswara is situated exactly opposite to the Bangaruvakili(Golden Entrance) of Jaya-Vijaya. This sub-shrine is part of Garudamandapam. The Garuthmantha deity is six feet tall and faces west looking towards Lord Venkateswara inside Garbhagriha.\n\nBhuvaraha Swamy Temple\n\nBhuvaraha Swamy Temple is the temple dedicated to Varaha an incarnation of Vishnu. This temple is believed to be older than Sri Venkateswara Temple. The temple lies on the Northern Banks of Swami Pushkarini. As per tradition, at first Naivedyam will be offered to Bhuvaraha Swamy before offering it to Lord Venkateswara in main Temple. And also as per tradition, devotees should have the darshan of Lord Bhuvaraha swamy before Lord Venkateswara.\n\nBedi-Anjaneya Temple\n\nBedi-Anjaneya Temple is the sub-shrine dedicated to Lord Hanuman. The temple lies exactly opposite to the Mahadwaram near Akhilandam(place where coconuts are offered). The deity in this temple has both of his hands handcuffed(Telugu Language:Bedilu).\n\nVakulamatha Sannidhi\n\nVakulamatha is the mother of Lord Venkateswara. There is statue dedicated to her in the main temple just ahead of Varadaraja shrine. The deity is in sitting posture. As per legend, she supervises the preparation of food that is to be offered to her son. For this reason a hole is made to the wall which separates Vakulamatha sannidhi and Srivari potu(Kitchen).\n\nKubera Sannidi\n\nThere is a sub-shrine dedicated to Lord Kubera within the Vimanapradakshina. The deity lies to the right side of Garbhagriha and faces south towards preciding deity.\n\nRamanuja Shrine\n\nThe Shrine of Sri Ramanuja is located adjacent to the northern corridor of the Vimana Pradakshinam. It is also known as the Bhashyakara Sannidhi. The shrine was built around in the 13th century A.D.\n\nRamanuja (1017–1137) was the most important Acharya of Sri Vaishnavism. He was responsible for managing the worshipping procedures and other affairs of the Sri Venkateswara temple. Ramanuja is credited for gifting the holy conch and the discus, the weapons of Vishnu during his visit. So he is considered as 'Acharya'(Guru or teacher) to the Lord himself. He established the Pedda Jeeyar Matam. He has a sannidhi(shrine) inside the temple.\n\nSri Tallapaka Annamacharya (or Annamayya) (22 May 1408 – 4 April 1503) was the official songmaster of the Tirumala Venkateswara Temple, and a Telugu composer who composed around 36000 keertanas, many of which were in praise of Venkateswara, the presiding deity of the temple.\n\nThe temple is considered one of the eight \"Swayambhu Kshetras\" of Vishnu where presiding deity is believed to have manifested on its own. Seven other temples in the line are Srirangam Ranganathaswamy temple, Bhu Varaha Swamy temple, and Vanamamalai Perumal Temple in South India and Saligrama in Nepal, Naimisaranya, Pushkar and Badrinath Temple in North India.\n\nThe temple is revered by Alvars in \"Divya Prabandham\". The temple is classified as a \"Divyadesam\", one of the 108 Vishnu temples that are mentioned in these books. The benefits acquired by a pilgrimage to Venkatachala are mentioned in the Rig Veda and Asthadasa Puranas. In these epics, Sri Venkateswara is described as the great bestower of boons. There are several legends associated with the manifestation of the Lord at Tirumala.\n\nThere are many ancient temples nearby Tirumala. Sri Padamavathi Temple is temple dedicated to Padmavathi, the wife of Venkateswara, situated at Tiruchanur which is 5 km from Tirupati. Srikalahasteeswara Temple is the temple dedicated to Lord Shiva which represents \"Vayu\"(air) form of elements of Nature, is situated at Srikalahasti which is 38 km from Tirupati. Sri Varasiddhi Vinayaka Temple, situated at Kanipakam town, is a 10th-century Temple dedicated to Lord Vinayaka at 75 km from Tirupati. Other than these, temples like Govindaraja Temple, Kalyana Venkateswara Temple(Srinivasa Mangapuram), Kodandarama Temple, Kapila Theertham are situated within the Tirupati city.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30490404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30490404", "title": "West African mythology", "text": "West African mythology\n\nShared West African mythology refers to myths found across the region of West Africa. Some of these myths traveled across the Atlantic during the period of the Trans-Atlantic slave trade to become part of Caribbean, Cuban or Brazilian mythology, with some endemic changes.\n\nFeatures of West African mythology include:\n\n"}
{"id": "44573065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44573065", "title": "Yitzchok Moully", "text": "Yitzchok Moully\n\nYitzchok Moully is an Australian-American, Orthodox rabbi and artist associated with the Chabad-Lubavitch Hasidic movement and is known for his \"Chasidic Pop Art\" painting style. Moully serves as a Chabad emissary (\"shaliach\") in Basking Ridge, New Jersey.\n\nMoully's combination of rabbinic work and art is expressed in a piece \"Orange Socks.\"\nThe piece, according to Moully, contrasts what people think of as a homogeneous Chassidic experience.\n\nYitzchok Moully was born in 1979 in Queensland, Australia but moved to Melbourne, Victoria at the age of three. At the age of five, Moully and his mother moved to Crown Heights, Brooklyn and joined the Chabad community there. Moully later studied at Chabad yeshivoth, married, and became the assistant rabbi at the Chabad Jewish Center of Basking Ridge, New Jersey.\n\nMoully has produced works by using the silkscreen process; his art contrasts strong Jewish and Chasidic images with vibrant bold colors creating what he describes as \"Chassidic Pop Art.\" Moully uses color and styles similar to the work of Andy Warhol, using popular images from Jewish Chasidic culture including dreidels, Kiddush cups and praying rabbis. Moully also works in abstract art, and has been heavily influenced by artists such as by the French Canadian artist Jean Pierre Lafrance \n\nIn 2006, Moully began exhibiting his art in galleries and community centers in New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania. Currently, his work is on exhibit at the gallery ArtisZen Arts in Lambertville, New Jersey.\n\nMoully founded a network of Orthodox Jewish artists called \"The Creative Soul.\" The group has sought to bring together local Chasidic artists, responding to the community's need for a greater focus on creativity. The Creative Soul has organized an annual exhibition in Crown Heights during the Jewish holiday of Sukkot. The exhibition has included submissions from local Chabad artists including Yitzchok Moully and Michoel Muchnik\n\n"}
{"id": "201419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201419", "title": "Śūnyatā", "text": "Śūnyatā\n\nŚūnyatā (; ) – pronounced ‘shoonyataa’, translated into English most often as \"emptiness\" and sometimes \"voidness\" – is a Buddhist concept which has multiple meanings depending on its doctrinal context. It is either an ontological feature of reality, a meditation state, or a phenomenological analysis of experience.\n\nIn Theravada Buddhism, suññatā often refers to the non-self (Pāli: \"anattā\", Sanskrit: \"anātman\") nature of the five aggregates of experience and the six sense spheres. Suññatā is also often used to refer to a meditative state or experience.\n\nIn Mahayana, \"Sunyata\" refers to the tenet that \"all things are empty of intrinsic existence and nature (\"svabhava\"),\" but may also refer to the Buddha-nature teachings and primordial or empty awareness, as in Dzogchen and Shentong.\n\n\"Śūnyatā\" (Sanskrit) is usually translated as \"devoidness,\" \"emptiness,\" \"hollow, hollowness,\" \"voidness.\" It is the noun form of the adjective \"śūnya\" or \"śhūnya\", plus \"-tā\": \n\nThe concept of Sunyata as \"emptiness\", states Sue Hamilton, is related to the concept of \"anatta\" in early Buddhism. Over time, many different philosophical schools or tenet-systems (Sanskrit: \"siddhānta\") have developed within Buddhism in an effort to explain the exact philosophical meaning of emptiness.\n\nAfter the Buddha, emptiness was further developed by the Abhidharma schools, Nāgārjuna and the Mādhyamaka school, an early Mahāyāna school. Emptiness (\"positively\" interpreted) is also an important element of the Buddha nature literature, which played a formative role in the evolution of subsequent Mahāyāna doctrine and practice.\n\nThe Pali canon uses the term emptiness in three ways: \"(1) as a meditative dwelling, (2) as an attribute of objects, and (3) as a type of awareness-release.\"\n\nThe \"Suñña Sutta\", part of the Pāli canon, relates that the monk Ānanda, Buddha's attendant asked, \nAccording to Thanissaro Bhikku:\n\nEmptiness as a meditative state is said to be reached when \"not attending to any themes, he [the bhikku] enters & remains in internal emptiness\" (MN 122). This meditative dwelling is developed through the \"four formless states\" of meditation or Arūpajhānas and then through \"themeless concentration of awareness.\"\n\nThe Cūlasuññata-sutta (MN III 104) and the Mahāsuññata-sutta (MN III 109) outline how a monk can \"dwell in emptiness\" through a gradual step by step mental cultivation process, they both stress the importance of the impermanence of mental states and the absence of a self.\n\nIn the Kāmabhu Sutta S IV.293, it is explained that a bhikkhu can experience a trancelike contemplation in which perception and feeling cease. When he emerges from this state, he recounts three types of \"contact\" (\"phasso\"):\nThe meaning of emptiness as contemplated here is explained at M I.297 and S IV.296-97 as the \"emancipation of the mind by emptiness\" (\"suññatā cetovimutti\") being consequent upon the realization that \"this world is empty of self or anything pertaining to self\" (\"suññam ida attena vā attaniyena vā\").\n\nThe term \"emptiness\" (\"suññatā\") is also used in two suttas in the \"Majjhima Nikāya\", in the context of a progression of mental states. The texts refer to each state's emptiness of the one below.\n\nSome of the Sarvāstivādin Agama sutras (extant in Chinese) which have emptiness as a theme include Samyukta Agama 335 - \"Paramārtha-śunyatā-sūtra\" (Sutra on ultimate emptiness) and Samyukta Agama 297 - \"Mahā-śunyatā-dharma-paryāya\" (Greater discourse on emptiness). These sutras have no parallel Pali suttas. These sutras associate emptiness with dependent origination, which shows that this relation of the two terms was already established in pre-Nagarjuna sources. The sutra on great emptiness states:\nThe phrase \"when this exists...\" is a common gloss on dependent origination. Sarvāstivādin Agamas also speak of a certain emptiness samadhi (\"śūnyatāsamādhi\") as well as stating that all dharmas are \"classified as conventional\".\n\nMun-Keat Choong and Yin Shun have both published studies on the various uses of emptiness in the Early Buddhist Texts (Pali Canon and Chinese Agamas). Choong has also published a collection of translations of Agama sutras from the Chinese on the topic of emptiness.\n\nMany of the early Buddhist schools featured sunyata as an important part of their teachings.\n\nThe Sarvastivadin school's Abhidharma texts like the Dharmaskandhapāda Śāstra, and the later Mahāvibhāṣa also take up the theme of emptiness vis a vis dependent origination as found in the Agamas.\n\nSchools such as the Mahāsāṃghika Prajñaptivādins as well as many of the Sthavira schools (except the Pudgalavada) held that all dharmas were empty (dharma śūnyatā). This can be seen in the early Theravada Abhidhamma texts such as the Patisambhidamagga which also speak of the emptiness of the five aggregates and of svabhava as being \"empty of essential nature\". The Theravada Kathavatthu also argues against the idea that emptiness is unconditioned.\n\nOne of the main themes of Harivarman's Tattvasiddhi-Śāstra (3rd-4th century) is \"dharma-śūnyatā\", the emptiness of phenomena.\n\nTheravada Buddhists generally take the view espoused in the Pali canon, that emptiness is merely the not-self nature of the five aggregates as well as a mode of perception which is \"empty of the presuppositions we usually add to experience to make sense of it\" - especially that of unchanging selfhood. Therefore, some Theravadan teachers like Thanissaro Bhikku hold that emptiness is not so much a metaphysical view, as it is a strategic mode of acting and of seeing the world which leads to liberation:\n\nThe idea of emptiness as lack of inherent existence has very little to do with what the Buddha himself said about emptiness. His teachings on emptiness — as reported in the earliest Buddhist texts, the Pali Canon — deal directly with actions and their results, with issues of pleasure and pain. To understand and experience emptiness in line with these teachings requires not philosophical sophistication, but a personal integrity willing to admit the actual motivations behind your actions and the actual benefits and harm they cause.\n\nSome Theravadins such as David Kalupahana, see Nagarjuna's view of emptiness as compatible with the Pali Canon. In his analysis of the Mulamadhyamikakarika, Kalupahana sees Nagarjuna's argument as rooted in the Kaccānagotta Sutta (which Nagarjuna cites by name). Kalupahana states that Nagarjuna's major goal was to discredit heterodox views of Svabhava (own-nature) held by the Sarvastivadins and establish the non-substantiality of all dharmas. According to Peter Harvey, the Abhidhamma theory of the Theravadins is not based on the kind of Svabhava that Nagarjuna was critiquing: \"They are dhammas because they are upheld by conditions or they are upheld according to their own nature' (Asl.39). Here 'own-nature' would mean characteristic nature, which is not something inherent in a dhamma as a separate ultimate reality, but arise due to the supporting conditions both of other dhammas and previous occurrences of that dhamma. This is of significance as it makes the Mahayana critique of the Sarvastivadin's notion of own-nature largely irrelevant to the Theravada.\"\n\nEmptiness as an approach to meditation is seen as a state in which one is \"empty of disturbance.\" This form of meditation is one in which the meditator becomes concentrated and focuses on the absence or presence of disturbances in their mind, if they find a disturbance they notice it and allow it drop away, this leads to deeper states of calmness. Emptiness is also seen as a way to look at sense experience that does not identify with the \"I-making\" and \"my-making\" process of the mind. As a form of meditation, this is developed by perceiving the six sense spheres and their objects as empty of any self, this leads to a formless jhana of nothingness and a state of equanimity.\n\nAccording to Gil Fronsdal: \"Emptiness is as important in the Theravada tradition as it is in the Mahayana. From the earliest times, Theravada Buddhism has viewed emptiness as one of the important doors to liberation.\" Mathew Kosuta sees the Abhidhamma teachings of the modern Thai teacher Ajaan Sujin Boriharnwanaket as being very similar to the Mahayana emptiness view.\n\nThe Prajna-paramita (Perfection of Wisdom) Sutras taught that all entities, including \"dharmas\", are only conceptual existents or constructs.\n\nThough we perceive a world of concrete and discrete objects, these objects are \"empty\" of the identity imputed by their designated labels. The Heart sutra, a text from the prajnaparamita-sutras, articulates this in the following saying in which the five skandhas are said to be \"empty\":\nMādhyamaka is a Mahāyāna Buddhist school of philosophy established by the Indian Buddhist philosopher Nagarjuna. In Madhyamaka, to say that an object is \"empty\" is synonymous with saying that it is dependently originated, which means, it's affected by the three marks of existence: it is fated to be transient, unsatisfactory, and without inherent existence.\n\nMadhyamaka states that impermanent collections of causes and conditions are designated by mere conceptual labels. This also applies to the principle of causality itself, since \"everything\" is dependently originated. If unaware of this, things may seem to arise as existents, remain for a time and then subsequently perish. In reality, dependently originated phenomena do not arise as having inherent existence in the first place. Thus both existence and nihilism are ruled out.\n\nMadhyamaka is retroactively seen as being founded by the monk Nāgārjuna. Nāgārjuna's goal was to refute the essentialism of certain Abhidharma schools. His best-known work is the Mūlamadhyamakakārikā, in which he used the \"reductio ad absurdum\" to show the non-substantiality of the perceived world.\n\nNāgārjuna equates emptiness with dependent origination:\nIn his analysis, any enduring essential nature would prevent the process of dependent origination, or any kind of origination at all. For things would simply always have been, and will always continue to be, without any change.\n\nIn doing so, he restores the Middle way of the Buddha, which had become influenced by absolute tendencies:\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, especially in the Gelugpa, a distinction is being made between Svatantrika and Prasaṅgika approaches to reasoning.\n\n\"Svātantrika\" is attributed primarily to the 6th century Indian scholar Bhavaviveka, who argued for the use of syllogistical statements in the propagation of Madhyamaka, in line with the developing Buddhist logic. It is used in contrast with Prāsangika Madhyamaka. According to Tsonghkhapa, for the Svatantrika conventional phenomena are understood to have a conventional essential existence, but without an ultimately existing essence.\n\nThe name \"Prasangika\" is derived from \"prasanga\", or \"reductio ad absurdum\" arguments, rather than \"svatantra-anumana\", or \"independent syllogisms\". Buddhapalita (470–550) are regarded as the main proponents of the Prasaṅgika, which argues that only arguments should be used which lay bare the logical inconstencies of their opponents.\n\nSome non-Buddhist and Buddhist writers state that the Sunyata concept in Madhyamaka philosophy is nihilistic. For example, Jackson writes:\nThis view has been challenged by other writers. Some scholars interpret emptiness as described by Nāgārjuna as a Buddhist transcendental absolute such as \"Tathagata\", while other scholars consider it a mistake. According to Jorge Ferrer, Nāgārjuna presents the middle way, one between nihilism and absolute eternalism, and sunyata as emptiness is the soteriological middle way.\n\nRandall Collins states that for Nagarjuna, ultimate reality was \"shunyata, emptiness\". In Nagarjuna's thesis, adds Collins, this emptiness is not a negation, but the premise that \"no concepts are intelligible\". David Kalupahana states that this topic has been debated by ancient and medieval Buddhist metaphysicians, with a divergence of views; emptiness is a view, adds Kalupahana, but \"holding up emptiness as an absolute or ultimate truth without reference to that which is empty is the last thing either the Buddha or Nāgārjuna would advocate\".\n\nAccording to Ferrer, Nāgārjuna criticized those whose mind held any \"positions and beliefs\", suggesting liberation is \"avoidance of all views\", and explaining emptiness as follows:\n\nYogacara explains \"emptiness\" in an analysis of the way we perceive \"things\". Everything we conceive of is the result of the working of the five skandhas: form, perception, feeling, volition and discrimination. The five skandhas together create consciousness. The \"things\" we are conscious of are \"mere concepts\", not 'das Ding an sich' or 'the thing in itself'.\n\nAn influential division of 1st-millennium CE Buddhist texts develop the notion of Buddha-nature. The \"Tathagatagarbha\" doctrine, at its earliest probably appeared about the later part of the 3rd century CE, and is verifiable in Chinese translations of 1st millennium CE.\n\nThe notion of Buddha-nature was opposed within the later Tibetan Gelugpa school, because they imply a \"self-like\" concept.\n\nThe Tathāgatagarbha is the topic of the \"Tathāgatagarbha sūtras\", where the title itself means a \"garbha\" (womb, matrix, seed) containing \"Tathagata\" (Buddha). In the \"Tathāgatagarbha sūtras\" sutras the perfection of the wisdom of not-self is stated to be the true self. The ultimate goal of the path is characterized using a range of positive language that had been used in Indian philosophy previously by essentialist philosophers, but which was now transmuted into a new Buddhist vocabulary to describe a being who has successfully completed the Buddhist path.\n\nThese Sutras suggest, states Paul Williams, that 'all sentient beings contain a Tathagata' as their 'essence, core or essential inner nature'. The \"Tathāgatagarbha\" sutras presents a further developed understanding of emptiness, wherein the Buddha Nature, the Buddha and Liberation are seen as transcending the realm of emptiness, i.e. of the conditioned and dependently originated phenomena.\n\nThe \"Śrīmālā Sūtra\" is one of the earliest texts on tathagata-garbha thought, composed in 3rd century in south India, according to Brian Brown. It asserted that everyone can potentially attain Buddhahood, and warns against the doctrine of Sunyata.\n\nThe \"Śrīmālā Sūtra\" posits that the Buddha-nature is ultimately identifiable as the supramundane nature of the Buddha, the \"garbha\" is the ground for Buddha-nature, this nature is unborn and undying, has ultimate existence, has no beginning nor end, is nondual, and permanent. The text also adds that the \"garbha\" has \"no self, soul or personality\" and \"incomprehensible to anyone distracted by sunyata (voidness)\"; rather it is the support for phenomenal existence.\n\nAnother seminal text, which was and is influential in Tibetan Buddhism, is the Ratnagotravibhāga sutra. It forms the basis of shentong, a further developed form of Madhyamaka, in which the realization of emptiness is a preliminary stage to realize the nature of mind, the self-reflexive nature of consciousness which shines through when it is freed from the defilements. Moderate shentong-views are still being taught in the Nyingma and Kagyu lineages, despite the fierce resistance and persecution by Gelugpas in previous centuries.\n\nWhile highly influential in Indian and east Asian Buddhism, for western scholars the \"Tathagatagarbha \" doctrine of an 'essential nature' in every living being appears to be confusing, since it seems to be equivalent to a 'Self', which seems to contradict the doctrines in a vast majority of Buddhist texts. Some scholars, however, view such teachings as metaphorical, not to be taken literally. Wayman and Wayman have also disagreed with this literalist view, and they state that the \"Tathagatagarbha\" is neither self nor sentient being, nor soul, nor personality.\n\nAccording to some scholars, the Buddha nature which these sutras discuss, does not represent a substantial self (\"ātman\"). Rather, it is a positive expression of emptiness, and represents the potentiality to realize Buddhahood through Buddhist practices. In this view, the intention of the teaching of Buddha nature is soteriological rather than theoretical. According to others, the potential of salvation depends on the ontological reality of a salvific, abiding core reality — the Buddha-nature, empty of all mutability and error, fully present within all beings.\n\nAccording to Matsumoto Shiro and Hakamaya Noriaki, the idea of an ontological reality of the Buddha-nature is an un-Buddhist idea: Their \"Critical Buddhism\" approach rejects what it calls \"dhatu-vada\" (substantialist Buddha nature doctrines)\n\nThe critical Buddhism approach has, in turn, recently been characterised as operating with a restricted definition of Buddhism. Paul Williams comments:\nTibetan Buddhism developed five main schools. The Madhyamika philosophy obtained a central position in all the schools, but with two distinct variations:\n\nThe Gelugpa school of Tibetan Buddhism is the most influential of the four Tibetan Buddhist schools. It was founded in the beginning of the 15th century by Tsongkhapa (1357–1419), who was \"strongly scholastic in orientation and encouraged the study of the great Indian masters of philosophy\".\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama, who generally speaks from the Gelugpa version of the \"Mādhyamaka-Prasaṅgika\", states:\n\nIn Dzogchen, emptiness does not refer to the mere negation of inherent existence, but to profound emptiness, the Ground and nature of mind which is free from temporary characteristics.\n\nThe Tibetan Yungdrung Bon-tradition regards the Ma Gyu, or Mother Tantra, as the highest tantra. Its views are close to Dzogchen. It sees waking life as an illusion, from which we have to wake up, just as we recognize dreams to be illusions. Sunyata is the lack of inherent existence. The Mother Tantra uses ...\nThese \"examples, similes and metaphors\" ...\nThe Sakya school originated in the 11th century. It rose to power in the 13th century. Gorampa Sonam Senge (1429-1489), an important philosopher in the Sakya school of Tibetan Buddhism, established an understandings of Prasangika which differs from Tsongkhapa. According to Gorampa, emptiness is not just mere emptiness, the absence of inherent existence, but profound emptiness, the absence of the four extremes in phenomena. In Gorampa's approach, ultimate truth is a liberating insight, that is free from even grasping the mind.\n\nThe Jonang school originated in the 12th century. Tsongkhapa strongly opposed the Jonang school, whose views he \"deemed to be ... dharmically incorrect\".\n\nIn the Tibetan Jonang school, only the Buddha and the Buddha Nature are viewed as \"not\" intrinsically empty, but as truly real, unconditioned, and replete with eternal, changeless virtues. The Buddha Nature (tathagatagarbha) is only empty of what is impermanent and conditioned, not of its own self. The Buddha Nature is truly real, and primordially present in all beings.\n\nAn important Tibetan treatise on Emptiness and the Buddha Nature is found in the scholar-monk Dolpopa's voluminous study, \"Mountain Doctrine\". It... \nIn this vast \"Mountain Doctrine\", Dolpopa describes the Buddha Nature as ...\nThe Buddha-nature is filled with eternal powers and virtues:\nDolpopa also cites the \"Angulimaliya Sutra<nowiki>'</nowiki>s\" contrast between empty phenomena such as the moral and emotional afflictions (\"kleshas\"), which are like ephemeral hailstones, and the enduring, eternal Buddha, which is like a precious gem:\nThe Kagyu teacher Khenpo Tsultrim, in \"Progressive Stages of Meditation on Emptiness\", presents five strages of meditation, which he relates to five different schools or approaches:\n\nWhen Buddhism was introduced in China it was understood in terms of its own culture. Various sects struggled to attain an understanding of the Indian texts. The Tathāgatagarbha Sutras and the idea of the Buddha-nature were endorsed, because of the perceived similarities with the Tao, which was understood as a transcendental reality underlying the world of appearances. Sunyata at first was also understood as pointing to transcendental reality. It took Chinese Buddhism several centuries to realize that sunyata does not refer to an essential transcendental reality underneath or behind the world of appearances.\n\nThe influence of those various doctrinal and textual backgrounds is still discernable in Zen. Zen teachers still mention the Buddha-nature, but the Zen tradition also emphasizes that Buddha-nature is Sunyata, the absence of an independent and substantial \"self\".\n\nVarious western Buddhists note that \"sunyata\" refers to the emptiness of inherent existence, as in Madhyamaka; but also to the emptiness of mind or awareness, as open space and the \"ground of being,\" as in meditation-orientated traditions and approaches such as Dzogchen and Shentong.\n\nGaudapada is considered by some scholars to have been strongly influenced by Buddhism, as he developed his concept of \"ajāta\" from Nagajurna's Madhyamaka philosophy, which uses the term \"anutpāda\":\n\nTaken together \"anutpāda\" means \"having no origin\", \"not coming into existence\", \"not taking effect\", \"non-production\".\n\nAccording to Gaudapada, the Absolute is not subject to birth, change and death. The Absolute is \"aja\", the unborn eternal. The empirical world of appearances is considered Maya (unreal as it is transitory), and not absolutely existent. Thus, Gaudapada's concept of \"ajativada\" is similar to Buddhist term \"anutpāda\" for the absence of an origin or śūnyatā.\n\nBut Gaudapada's perspective is quite different from Nagarjuna. Gaudapada's perspective found in \"Mandukya Karika\" is based on the \"Mandukya Upanishad\". According to Gaudapada, the metaphysical absolute called Brahman never changes, while the phenomenal world changes continuously, so the phenomenal world cannot arise independently from Brahman. If the world cannot arise, yet is an empirical fact, than the perceived world has to be a transitory (unreal) appearance of Brahman. And if the phenomenal world is a transitory appearance, then there is no real origination or destruction, only apparent origination or destruction. From the level of ultimate truth (\"paramārthatā\") the phenomenal world is \"māyā\", \"illusion\", apparently existing but ultimately not metaphysically real.\n\nIn \"Gaudapada-Karika\", chapter III, verses 46-48, he states that Brahman never arises, is never born, is never unborn, it rests in itself:\nIn contrast to Renard's view, Karmarkar states the Ajativada of Gaudapada has nothing in common with the \"Śūnyatā\" concept in Buddhism. While the language of Gaudapada is undeniably similar to those found in Mahayana Buddhism, states Comans, their perspective is different because unlike Buddhism, Gaudapada is relying on the premise of \"Brahman, Atman or Turiya\" exist and are the nature of absolute reality.\n\n\"Sunya\" and \"Sunyatisunya\" are concepts which appear in some Shaiva texts, such as the Vijñāna Bhairava Tantra, which contains several verses mentioning voidness as a feature of ultimate reality - Shiva:\n\n\"The Absolute void is Bhairava who is beyond the senses and the mind, beyond all the categories of these instruments. From the point of view of the human mins, He is most void. from the point of view of Reality, He is most full, for He is the source of all manifestation.\"\n\n\"The yogi should concentrate intensely on the idea (and also feel) that this universe is totally void. In that void, his mind would become absorbed. Then he becomes highly qualified for absorption i.e. his mind is absorbed in the absolute void (sunyatisunya).\"\n\nIn a series of Kannada language texts of Lingayatism, a Shaivism tradition, \"shunya\" is equated to the concept of the Supreme. In particular, the \"Shunya Sampadane\" texts present the ideas of Allama Prabhu in a form of dialogue, where \"shunya\" is that void and distinctions which a spiritual journey seeks to fill and eliminate. It is the described as a state of union of one's soul with the infinite Shiva, the state of blissful moksha.\n\n\"Shunya Brahma\" is a concept found in certain texts of Vaishnavism, particularly in Odiya, such as the poetic \"Panchasakhas\". It explains the \"Nirguna Brahman\" idea of Vedanta, that is the eternal unchanging metaphysical reality as \"personified void\". Alternate names for this concept of Hinduism, include \"shunya purusha\" and \"Jagannatha\" (Vishnu) in certain text. However, both in Lingayatism and various flavors of Vaishnavism such as \"Mahima Dharma\", the idea of \"Shunya\" is closer to the Hindu concept of metaphysical \"Brahman\", rather than to the \"Śūnyatā\" concept of Buddhism. However, there is some overlap, such as in the works of Bhima Bhoi.\n\nIn the Vaishnavism of Orissa, the idea of Shunya Brahman or Shunya Purusha is found in the poetry of the Orissan Panchasakhas (Five Friends), such as in the compositions of 16th-century Acyutananda. Acyutananda's \"Shunya Samhita\" extols the nature of Shunya Brahman: \n\n\"nāhi tāhāra rūpa varṇa, adṛsha avarṇa tā cinha.\"\n\"tāhāku brahmā boli kahi, śūnya brahmhati se bolāi.\"\n\nIt has no shape, no colour, \nIt is invisible and without a name\nThis Brahman is called Shunya Brahman.\nThe Panchasakhas practiced a form of Bhakti called Jnana-mishrita Bhakti-marga, which saw the necessity of knowledge (Jnana) and devotion - Bhakti.\n\n\n\n"}
