{"id": "29824397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29824397", "title": "A Language Older Than Words", "text": "A Language Older Than Words\n\nA Language Older Than Words is a non-fiction book by Derrick Jensen, first published in 2000. The author uses his own personal experience of abuse as a springboard for looking at civilization as a culture of abuse, exploring the connections between various atrocities. Jensen also urges his readers to reconnect with the land.\n\n"}
{"id": "8243680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8243680", "title": "Abba of Acre", "text": "Abba of Acre\n\nAbba of Acre (, translit: \"Abba d'min Akko\"), was an \"amora\" from Acre who flourished at the end of the 3rd century.\n\nHe was greatly respected by Rabbi Abbahu and praised as an example of modesty.\n\n"}
{"id": "11312493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11312493", "title": "Abhai the general", "text": "Abhai the general\n\nAbhai the general (or Abhai Mihrsabor) is a Christian saint and a martyr.\n\nHe was killed by his father Aduzphiruzgerd. His mother is Astina. His relics are located at Killith monastery in Mesopotamia, where he had served as abbot. His feast day is October 1 in the Syrian Church.\n\nHolweck, F. G. \"A Biographical Dictionary of the Saints\". St. Louis, MO: B. Herder Book Co., 1924.\n"}
{"id": "901722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=901722", "title": "Actual idealism", "text": "Actual idealism\n\nActual idealism was a form of idealism, developed by Giovanni Gentile, that grew into a 'grounded' idealism, contrasting the transcendental idealism of Immanuel Kant, and the absolute idealism of G. W. F. Hegel. To Gentile, who considered himself the \"philosopher of Fascism,\" actualism was the sole remedy to philosophically preserving free agency, by making the act of thinking self-creative and, therefore, without any contingency and not in the potency of any other fact.\n\nActual idealism holds that it is the act of thinking as perception, not creative thought as imagination, which defines reality. Therefore, one idea, or another, can only be a formulation of particulars within the bounds of a known totality, in which one idea is not on any side of those particulars. Totality constituting the whole cohesive reality, is negated in such idea by itself. Integration of totality against idea, in appealing to oneself, is the sole fruitful means of idea, which poses no favoritism to the developed ideas giving a knowing precedence to the world it has created itself into. Anything less is a presupposition and therefore innately unreal. This totality is the act of thinking, not thoughts so regarded by thinking.\n\nWhile realists agree that the world known to them is the only one they possibly know 'as a static concept,' they continue to regard something real about the concept having nothing to do with their thinking. Actual idealists disregard the static concept, as totally false, in regard to the world for them where the only real is in 'the act of thinking' within being.\n\nThe stance of realism claims that repeatability of experience gives proof of a basis, which transcends and outruns our percepts, refuting Idealism. Yet it does not consider that the process of thinking, as creation, and the thought about thinking, as abstraction, interchange depending on the quality of one's act. It is the process of thinking that creates thought, which may not recur, but what occurs as thinking of it is what cannot be outrun as a conceptualization, for it is the very immanent process of it, which is what definitely is. Not as thoughts perceived, but as perceptive thinking prior to being construed outside its own totality as a thought, not made an abstraction, which cannot exist or be supposed to exist in any form outside one's thinking. Only one's thought reached from -and thus put outside of- thinking can be surpassed; but only by thinking, not by an abstract external.\n\nActual idealism, therefore, rejects the Hegelian 'Absolute' as being a presupposition unprovable to the mind, unless considered to be synonymous with what's known or the totality of the act of thinking. Which therein would put the dialectical processes making 'self' & 'not self' a consideration proving external existence real, insofar as it is in reality part of the self's own thinking, since the self, regarded alone, is always a concept and cannot be given reality as such. Neither does Actual idealism admit archetypal concepts in that possible conception of them in relation to all else gives them no reality. Gentile made a pivotal distinction to factors concerning Idealism's own criteria for reality, which have stood since Berkeley's adage \"Esse est percipi\" by distinguishing between \"pensiero pensante\" the 'act of thinking', and the 'static thought' \"pensiero pensato\".\n\nGentile posited then, that knowledge as thought fixed against a fuller range of thinking limits thinking's every proposition. If truth is what surpasses the conditions of every proposition, taking a known postulate as truth removes its criteria from having that capability in thinking. Objectifying actuality. Truth then cannot be known by thought, since knowledge held as thought is privative toward thinking as decided by what's thought. Only thinking as it penetrates, not given in to what categories of thought orient it, can be truth, so long as it does not resort to thought in doing so which would objectify it. Such thinking is truth because it therefore defines reality as by that thinking, rather than excluding truth from the possibility of thinking because of its relation to yielding thoughts. Only because thinking's results, namely thoughts, do not pertain to what is arising from its act, the truth, does thinking itself become questioned as a proper conductor of truth. That however does not detract from the nature of truths being defined within the act as the concrete. Thinking, being the condition in which truths are measured, in fact affirms thinking's own condition as truth, and when coupled with the idea that it generates thoughts which negate it, must the concrete be identified with thinking rather than simply being denied to thought, seen as abstract, and having that together assumed with thinking as denied also. For thinking cannot therefore be solely a producer of thoughts alone to Gentile, as is the position taken by materialists, because thoughts are to him what negate it, but must also be what produces the stable environment wherein being happens. Which then is the direct result of oneself as the further quality in which reality is not negated, as it is by thoughts to themselves.\n\nTherefore, this postulate maintains that thinking is an active process and the static conception of a thought is its dialectical opposite. Where thinking is the vitality of psychological being, a thought is opposed to that vitality and therefore would be opposed to that immanent quality where alone existence takes on its reality to the actual idealist. No sense or imagining of something beyond or external to the act of thinking in itself for the thinker can be real, and therefore cannot be said to exist, even if, to continue the act of thinking it must be said that it does exist as a creation of the act of thinking if even then it remains unreal. Which in considering it the measure of its existence is realized for then it is exposed to the act of thinking and is subject to reality; from an \"a priori\" beginning to a non-empirical conclusion without presupposition.\n\nActual idealism was successful in that it promoted a theory of regarding thought, that garnered enough attention, to prove a competition to the new waves of positivism, and therefore materialist conceptions of social life that were vying for reformist tendencies in the politics of the time. Its ideas, therefore, were key to helping the Fascist party consolidate power in Italy with its own reform, and integral to giving Fascism the content of its philosophical sentiment. Despite this, Gentile claimed actual idealism to be the true variety of positivism, and the proper interpretation of the concept of positivism.\n\nBenedetto Croce objected that Gentile's \"pure act\" is nothing other than Schopenhauer's will. However Schopenhauer \"…came to rest in an Absolute which transcends concrete experience … and for (Schopenhauer) the Critical Philosophy was only a prolegomena or propaedeutic to a speculative or 'transcendent' philosophy of the kind which Gentile and Kant are united in opposing\", according to H. S. Harris's book on the basic metaphysics of Giovanni Gentile in contrast to that of Schopenhauer.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14607177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14607177", "title": "Albertet Cailla", "text": "Albertet Cailla\n\nAlbertet \"Albert\" Cailla or Calha was an Albigeois jongleur and troubadour. According to his \"vida\" he was \"of slight worth\" but beloved by his neighbours and the local women. His \"vida\" says that he composed one good \"canso\" and several \"sirventes\", but only one \"partimen\" survives. Unusually for a troubadour, he never left the Albigeois.\n\nThere is a \"tenso\" on the merits of old and young women which is ascribed to Albertet in at least two chansonniers, MSS \"I\" and \"K\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1434194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1434194", "title": "Antonina Borissova", "text": "Antonina Borissova\n\nAntonina Georgievna Borissova (1903–1970) was a Russian botanist, specialising in the flora of the deserts and semi-desert of central Asia. Borissova authored 195 land plant species names, the ninth-highest number of such names authored by any female scientist.\n\nAmong the plants she identified are: \n\nThese species of succulent are named in her honour:\n"}
{"id": "9025771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9025771", "title": "Anytime algorithm", "text": "Anytime algorithm\n\nIn computer science, an anytime algorithm is an algorithm that can return a valid solution to a problem even if it is interrupted before it ends. The algorithm is expected to find better and better solutions the longer it keeps running.\n\nMost algorithms run to completion: they provide a single answer after performing some fixed amount of computation. In some cases, however, the user may wish to terminate the algorithm prior to completion. The amount of computation required may be substantial, for example, and computational resources might need to be reallocated. Most algorithms either run to completion or they provide no useful solution information. Anytime algorithms, however, are able to return a partial answer, whose quality depends on the amount of computation they were able to perform. The answer generated by anytime algorithms is an approximation of the correct answer.\n\nAn anytime algorithm may be also called an \"interruptible algorithm\". They are different from contract algorithms, which must declare a time in advance; in an anytime algorithm, a process can just announce that it is terminating.\n\nThe goal of anytime algorithms are to give intelligent systems the ability to make results of better quality in return for turn-around time. They are also supposed to be flexible in time and resources. They are important because artificial intelligence or AI algorithms can take a long time to complete results. This algorithm is designed to complete in a shorter amount of time. Also, these are intended to have a better understanding that the system is dependent and restricted to its agents and how they work cooperatively. An example is the Newton-Raphson iteration applied to finding the square root of a number. Another example that uses anytime algorithms is trajectory problems when you're aiming for a target; the object is moving through space while waiting for the algorithm to finish and even an approximate answer can significantly improve its accuracy if given early.\n\nWhat makes anytime algorithms unique is their ability to return many possible outcomes for any given input. An anytime algorithm uses many well defined quality measures to monitor progress in problem solving and distributed computing resources. It keeps searching for the best possible answer with the amount of time that it is given. It may not run until completion and may improve the answer if it is allowed to run longer.\nThis is often used for large decision set problems. This would generally not provide useful information unless it is allowed to finish. While this may sound similar to dynamic programming, the difference is that it is fine-tuned through random adjustments, rather than sequential.\n\nAnytime algorithms are designed so that it can be told to stop at any time and would return the best result it has found so far. This is why it is called an interruptible algorithm. Anytime algorithms also maintain the last result, so that if they are given more time, they can continue from where they left off to obtain an even better result.\n\nWhen the decider has to act, there must be some ambiguity. Also, there must be some idea about how to solve this ambiguity. This idea must be translatable to a state to action diagram.\n\nThe performance profile estimates the quality of the results based on the input and the amount of time that is allotted to the algorithm. The better the estimate, the sooner the result would be found. Some systems have a larger database that gives the probability that the output is the expected output. It is important to note that one algorithm can have several performance profiles. Most of the time performance profiles are constructed using mathematical statistics using representative cases. For example, in the traveling salesman problem, the performance profile was generated using a user-defined special program to generate the necessary statistics. In this example, the performance profile is the mapping of time to the expected results. This quality can be measured in several ways:\n\n\nInitial behavior: While some algorithms start with immediate guesses, others take a more calculated approach and have a start up period before making any guesses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6242104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6242104", "title": "Argo Aadli", "text": "Argo Aadli\n\nArgo Aadli (born 12 April 1980, in Kunda, Estonia) is an Estonian theatre and film actor. He graduated from the Higher Theatre School of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre in 2002. He has worked as an actor in Tallinn City Theatre where he has performed at least ten productions to date, notably the character of Zahhar in the Anton Chekhov play \"Pianola or The Mechanical Piano\" in 2002. Aside from this he has been involved in several films including \"Names in Marble\" (2002) where he played Konsap) and \"Lotte from Gadgetville\" (2006) where he voiced Albert.\n\n\nFilms\n"}
{"id": "44451263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44451263", "title": "Busbuhra", "text": "Busbuhra\n\nBusbuhra was a local ruler of Aramean origin, who shifted alliance between the Rashidun Caliphate and the Sasanian Empire, to remain on his throne.\n\nAn Aramean \"dehqan\" native to the Sasanian province of Asoristan, Busbuhra was the son of a certain Saluba ibn Nistuna, who, as a Sasanian subject, held the title of \"lord\" and owned land near al-Hira, the former capital of the Lakhmids, who were vassals of the Sasanians, but had been removed from power in 602. During the beginning of the Arab invasion of Iran, Busbuhra (or his father) made peace with the Arabs by agreeing to pay them and aid them against the Sasanians. Busbuhra is later mentioned in construction a bridge which would allow the Arabs to move deeper into Sasanian territory. \n\nHowever, the Arabs were eventually defeated at the battle of the Bridge. This made Busbuhra change his allegiance back to the Sasanians. He shortly confronted the Arabs at Burs, but was defeated and routed, while also wounded by a spear. He then fled to Bavel (Babylon) and regrouped with Sasanian troops and officers, who had survived another battle with the Arabs at al-Qadisiya. Busbuhra, however, died due to his wounds after the battle of Burs before he could confront the Arabs once more.\n\nBusbuhra is known to have had two sons, Khalid and Jamil, who instead of serving their family overlords, the Sasanians, served the Arabs.\n\n"}
{"id": "232428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232428", "title": "Cruelty", "text": "Cruelty\n\nCruelty is indifference to suffering or pleasure in inflicting suffering. Sadism can also be related to this form of action or concept. Cruel ways of inflicting suffering may involve violence, but affirmative violence is not necessary for an act to be cruel. For example, if a person is drowning and begging for help and another person is able to help with no cost or risk, but is merely watching with disinterest or perhaps mischievous amusement, that person is being cruel—rather than violent.\n\nGeorge Eliot stated that \"cruelty, like every other vice, requires no motive outside itself; it only requires opportunity.\" Bertrand Russell stated that \"the infliction of cruelty with a good conscience is a delight to moralists. That is why they invented Hell.\" Gilbert K. Chesterton stated that \"cruelty is, perhaps, the worst kind of sin. Intellectual cruelty is certainly the worst kind of cruelty.\"\n\nThe word has metaphorical uses, for example \"The cliffs remained cruel.\" (i.e. unclimbable when they desperately needed to be climbed) in \"The Lord of the Rings\".\n\nThe term \"cruelty\" is often used in law and criminology with regard to the treatment of animals, children, spouses, and prisoners. When cruelty to animals is discussed, it often refers to \"unnecessary suffering.\" In criminal law, it refers to punishment, torture, victimization, draconian measures, and cruel and unusual punishment. In divorce cases, many jurisdictions permit a cause of action for cruel and inhumane treatment.\n\nIn law, cruelty is \"the infliction of physical or mental distress, especially when considered a determinant in granting a divorce.\"\n\nThe term comes from Middle English, via the Old French term \"crualte\", which is based on Latin \"crudelitas\", from \"crudelis\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51949", "title": "Curelom and cumom", "text": "Curelom and cumom\n\nThe curelom () and the cumom () are \"useful\" animals mentioned in the Book of Mormon. According to adherents of the Latter Day Saint movement, these animals are thought to have existed in North and/or South America. To non-adherents, these animals are creatures of the Book of Mormon.\n\nThe exact intended identity of these animals is not known. Joseph Smith, who translated the Book of Mormon, is not known to have elaborated on the subject of these animals. However, the animals have been a subject for discussion and speculation by Mormon thinkers and apologists.\n\nThe curelom and cumom are mentioned only once in the Book of Mormon. The reference occurs in the Book of Ether, which is purported to be a history of a nation of early Americans called the \"Jaredites\" who are said to have left the Tower of Babel and traveled by barge to the Western Hemisphere. There, according to the book, they made use of a number of animals, though whether they brought them over on their barges is unclear. The narrative reads as follows:\n\nAccording to Latter-day Saint belief, Joseph Smith translated the Book of Mormon from an ancient language. In this line of thinking, the words \"curelom\" and \"cumom\" were transliterated instead of translated, meaning that while the ancient word is roughly transmitted, the actual animal intended is ambiguous. The context may imply beasts of burden. Some Mormons have speculated about what the terms refer to, including:\n\nMainstream paleontologists believe that mastodons and mammoths became extinct by 4000 BCE. This suggests that a beast of burden in the Book of Mormon time period most likely would not have been a mammoth, although many Latter-day Saints still persist in displaying Cureloms as mammoths in literature and media.\n\nRecent studies have found that a small population of mammoths existed until approximately 1650 BCE. These survivors were an isolated arctic population discovered on the remote Wrangel Island in the Arctic Ocean. This is the time period wherein Jaredites would have lived, but the geography and climate are far from matching the lands proposed by Book of Mormon scholars and apologists.\n\nThe curelom and cumom have appeared in Mormon literature. For example, Chris Heimerdinger, a popular LDS novelist, chose to make cureloms mammoths in his time-traveling adventure \"Tennis Shoes and the Feathered Serpent.\" Similarly, Thom Duncan published an independent novel where an Indiana Jones-type character escapes from a curelom, described as a mammoth. In another book, titled 'Book of Mormon ABCs', on the third page it says, \"C\" is for Curelom, and it has a picture of a mammoth.\n\nIn his novel \"The Memory of Earth\", Orson Scott Card lists various pack animals: \"horses, donkeys, mules and kurelomi\". That particular spelling and similar alternative spellings of cureloms can be found in some non-English translations of the Book of Mormon, e.g. Slovenian.\n\n"}
{"id": "6119377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6119377", "title": "Death of John Carthy", "text": "Death of John Carthy\n\nJohn Carthy (9 October 1972 – 20 April 2000) was a 27-year-old Irish citizen with known psychiatric illnesses who was shot dead by the Garda Emergency Response Unit in controversial circumstances on 20 April 2000, after a twenty-five-hour siege at his home in Toneymore, Abbeylara, County Longford.\n\nJohn Carthy was born the only son of John and Rose Carthy on 9 October 1972. He had one sister, Marie, who was two years his junior. He was an avid Handballer and member of Abbeylara Handball Club. His father, with whom he was very close, died on 12 April 1990. In 1992 John was diagnosed with clinical depression and, subsequently with bipolar affective disorder. John's general employment was in the construction industry. He resided with his mother in an old, three-bedroom house in Toneymore, Abbeylara. She and John were due to move from this old house to a new home which had been built on their land by Longford County Council as part of a rural housing scheme. The old house was due to be demolished. On 19 April 2000, the day prior to his death, John stayed in the family home all day with his mother. His mother's testimony to the Barr Tribunal indicated that John was very hostile to the move and that this was the primary topic of their discussions that day.\n\nLike many people in the countryside, John Carthy was the legal owner of a double-barreled shotgun, in this case a Russian-made Baikal IJ-43M. He was also in possession of a licence in relation to this firearm. This license had been of limited duration prior to November, 1998 when it was changed to an unlimited type and this was subsequently renewed on 29 August 1999.\n\nAt approximately 15:40 on Wednesday 19 April 2000 John Carthy went to the cabinet within which was his shotgun. He brought it, a full box of cartridges and his gun belt back to the kitchen demonstrating, according to his mother, that \"no one was going to put him out of his house\". He loaded the gun with two cartridges, went outside the hall door and discharged two shots.\n\nIt is not quite clear whether John then forced his mother out of the family home, or whether she left at her own volition. However, Rose Carthy left the family home and travelled to her sister's home, two doors away. Mrs Carthy informed the Barr Tribunal that her son did not order her out of the home, despite rumours to the contrary at the time. She was, however, very afraid for her son. Rose Carthy asked her sister, Nancy Walsh, to ring the Gardaí in Granard, three kilometres away, to come out and \"take the gun from John\".\n\nAt 17:20 Ann Walsh, John's first cousin, telephoned the Gardaí in Granard. Two Gardaí, John Gibbons and Colin White, were dispatched to the scene. It appears that Garda Gibbons knew John Carthy as before he left Granard Garda station he took with him an official issue .38 Smith & Wesson revolver and some ammunition. He also obtained a Garda flak jacket and put on a \"civilian jacket\" over the flak jacket. Garda White was unarmed, in uniform and driver of a marked Garda car.\n\nAt approximately 17:55 on Wednesday 19 April 2000 the two Gardaí drove in the driveway of the Carthy home. Two shots were fired in rapid succession from an unknown place and in an unknown direction. They quickly reversed their car and observed the Carthy home from a safer distance. At this stage John Carthy's general practitioner, Dr. Patrick Cullen, was called to the scene. While waiting for Gardaí he said that approximately ten shots were fired \"out the back of the house\". Dr. Cullen was followed to the house by an armed detective, Garda James Campbell, in an unmarked Garda car. He warned the three Gardaí now present that John Carthy might be aggressive due to the \"previous incident and alleged Garda assault\". He also advised them that John Carthy may have consumed alcohol.\n\nNonetheless, Detective Garda Campbell and Garda Gibbons, both of whom were armed, decided to approach John Carthy's home. At this juncture in the unfolding drama the Barr Tribunal was given to remarking, \"It may be of significance that the house was now being approached by two armed Gardaí in circumstances where there was information to the effect that John Carthy had been on anti-depressant tablets, was not holding any hostage, had discharged his weapon on a number of occasions, and that he might be aggressive to them because they were Gardaí\". No back-up support was thought necessary at this time.\n\nDetective Garda Campbell attempted to talk with John Carthy but, in his evidence, said Carthy replied with an expletive and a threat to blow his head off. This exchange was followed by a shot at the Garda car which was now unoccupied. In total, John Carthy fired six shots by the time Detective Garda Campbell rang Granard Garda station with a request that they contact Superintendent Michael Byrne, who was in charge of the Granard Sub-District. Byrne instructed them to contact Superintendent Joseph Shelly in Mullingar. Shelly assumed command of the incident and ordered that a party of armed Gardaí be sent from Athlone station forthwith. En route to Granard Garda Station, Superintendent Shelly had another discussion with Superintendent Byrne and requested that armed Gardaí from Longford also be sent to Abbeylara. By 18:30, then, following the discharge of shots, the damaging of an unmarked Garda car and the request for assistance, armed Gardaí and detectives from Athlone, Longford and Mullingar were sent to John Carthy's home in Abbeylara.\n\nAt 18:45 the divisional commander for Longford/Westmeath, Chief Superintendent Patrick Tansey, became aware of events. He contacted Superintendent Shelly by phone. These conversations led to the decision to deploy the elite Emergency Response Unit (ERU). Assistant Commissioner Tony Hickey issued the request for their deployment. Six members of the ERU were subsequently sent to Abbeylara from the Special Detective section in Harcourt Street, Dublin, where they were based. Five ERU members were required to deal with practical matters while the sixth, Detective Sergeant Michael Jackson, was a trained negotiator. The ERU arrived at 21.50. Among their weapons were Uzi submachine guns, a Heckler & Koch assault rifle, a Benelli combat shotgun and SIG Sauer semi-automatic pistols.\n\nWhile tactical control rests with ERU members on the scene overall control rests with the divisional commander. During the Abbeylara siege, this was shared between Superintendent Shelly and Superintendent Byrne. The former was in command between 1900 on 19 April and midnight. From midnight to 0900 on 20 April, Superintendent Byrne was the Scene Commander and at 0900 on the day of John Carthy's death, Superintendent Shelly resumed command.\n\nSuperintendent Shelly officially took over at 9 am, but had been back on the scene at 8.20 am. Throughout the morning, numerous tactics were employed by the Gardaí to end the siege. John's cousin and close friend, Thomas Walsh, was brought in to talk with him.\n\nJohn made somewhat confusing and poorly worded demands for cigarettes and a solicitor. \nTo the former, the negotiator saw this as a way of opening a dialogue so he told him all they needed to do was ensure a safe method of delivery. In this Sergeant Jackson was technically breaking the negotiators rule 'no concession without one in exchange' but felt it worth it as it might calm him and build some trust.\nHe repeatedly told John that someone could approach to leave them nearby if he put the gun on the table (beside which he was looking out the window towards the negotiation post as he was talking to Jackson)if he placed the rifle on the table and kept his hands in view. John replied with various rebuffs including 'don't bother, don't bother'.\nAs to the solicitor he was told they could not send one in while he still had the gun, as this appeared to be what John wanted. However they could get one on the phone to advise him if he could tell them who to get in touch with.\nJackson feared that having someone encroach on the home while Carthy was resting, to drop cigarettes covertly, might cause Carthy irritation at the invasion of his security.\nCarthy was quite vague on the identity of the solicitor and the scene commander thought it a waste of time to get one from the locality. \nAt 12.24 pm, John Carthy telephoned a friend, Kevin Ireland, and informed him he hadn't a notion of hurting anyone, that he was simply keeping them at bay with the gun and that he wanted a solicitor, one by the name of \"Mick Finucane\". \nKevin Ireland was not properly debriefed on this conversation by Garda officers and this critical information did not reach the negotiator. \nCarthy was confused about the identity of who he wanted. It is likely, that he was alluding to Michael Finucane, the Belfast solicitor and son of the assassinated Pat Finucane.\n\nAt approximately 5:55pm on day two of the siege, Carthy exited the house. There were yells of \"Armed Gardaí - drop your gun\" and various words to that effect. Jackson asked Carthy in a more direct and pleading tone, noted in its distinct nature by witnesses, to drop the weapon. Jackson reluctantly drew his SIG Sauer pistol and attempted to bring Carthy down without killing him, with two shots to his legs. These shots did not bring him down and he appeared not to notice them.\nIn these crucial seconds, which the Tribunal found to be around a minute's duration, the ERU team hesitated in opening fire, continuing to plead with Carthy to surrender. The hesitation was so complete that local armed officers in the outer perimeter began to think the ERU team would not fire and one remarked \"we're gonna have to do it ourselves\" and were within a second of opening fire when Garda McCabe took action.\nGarda McCabe fired his Uzi at Carthy once, then again, both striking Carthy in the torso. Following the fourth shot, Carthy collapsed onto his side.\n\nThe ERU team moved in to disarm him and turning him onto his back saw he was critically injured. Medical help was summoned and they began immediate CPR. Despite various attempts to revive him, Carthy died quickly.\n\nOn 25 April 2000, John Carthy's 25-year-old sister, Marie Carthy, held a news conference. Describing her brother as \"intelligent, popular, hardworking, witty, gentle and a man who never let anyone down\", Marie Carthy called for a full independent and public inquiry into the death of John Carthy five days previously.\n\nMarie Carthy's call came in response to two developments: firstly, the Garda investigation announced on the evening of the shooting on 20 April 2000 and, secondly, and more importantly, the Gardaí revelation that they would not make this report public. In a statement issued in response to public concern about the shooting, An Garda Síochána said that under existing legislation, namely the Coroners Act of 1962, they were proceeding to hold an inquest into the death of the John Carthy.\n\nComing under pressure to make their internal investigation findings public, the Gardaí requested the FBI in the United States to investigate their handling of the shooting. On 29 June 2000, the FBI reported their findings to the Garda Commissioner, Pat Byrne. The five-member FBI investigation concluded that the main problem with the Garda's operations on the day was that they waited too long to fatally shoot Mr Carthy, in that he should not have been allowed to cross into the inner perimeter, putting unarmed Garda in the outer perimeter at risk and that ultimately use of deadly force was appropriate to protect themselves and others. In the words of the FBI report, \"Garda personnel repeatedly and emphatically ordered Mr. Carthy to halt and throw down his weapon. Despite these warnings, Mr. Carthy was allowed to continue undeterred beyond the wall which served as one side of the inner perimeter and walk toward the outer perimeter which was manned in part by unarmed Garda officers...to allow Mr. Carthy to cross the inner perimeter armed after he had repeatedly ignored warnings and had previously aimed and fired his shotgun at Garda officers was inconsistent with accepted law enforcement practices in the United States\".\n\nOn 8 March 2001 and responding to the growing disillusionment and distrust at the idea that the Garda were investigating themselves, the Irish government, still rejecting calls for a full public inquiry, instead established an Oireachtas subcommittee to investigate the shooting. The committee had seven members: Seán Ardagh, T.D. (FF) (Chair); Marian McGuinness, T.D. (FF); John McGuinness, T.D. (FF); Alan Shatter, T.D. (FG); Monica Barnes, T.D. (FG); Brendan Howlin, T.D. (Lab) and Senator Denis Donovan (FF).\n\nHowever, on 23 November 2001, the High Court of Ireland deemed this subcommittee of both houses of the Irish parliament to be unconstitutional. The state's appeal, on 11 April 2002, of this decision to the Supreme Court of Ireland failed when the latter body found in favour of 36 Gardaí who challenged the right of this particular committee to call them. The ground upon which The Supreme Court had ruled this committee unconstitutional was that the Oireachtas has no explicit, implicit or inherent power to conduct an inquiry which could lead \"to adverse findings of fact and conclusions (including a finding of unlawful killing) as to the personal culpability of an individual not a member of the Oireachtas so as to impugn their good name is ultra vires in that the holding of such an inquiry is not within the inherent powers of the Oireachtas\". The Thirtieth Amendment of the Constitution Bill 2011 was intended to reverse this judgment.\n\nWithin a week of this judgement, by 17 April 2002, a motion was proposed and passed in Dáil Éireann and seconded in Seanad Éireann: \"That Dáil Éireann [Seanad Éireann in its Resolution] resolves that it is expedient that a tribunal be established under the Tribunals of Inquiry (Evidence) Acts, 1921 to 2002, to enquire into the following definite matter of urgent public importance: - the facts and circumstances surrounding the fatal shooting of John Carthy at Abbeylara, Co Longford on 20 April 2000\".\n\nOut of this motion came the Carthy family's requested public investigation into John Carthy's death. Led by a former High Court judge, Robert Barr, it followed the pattern of other Irish Tribunals of Inquiry by becoming known as the Barr Tribunal in reference to the surname of its sole member. The Carthy family immediately welcomed the powers and scope of the tribunal.\n\nOn 20 July 2006 the report of Mr. Justice Robert Barr was released. \nThe report did not just examine the siege itself but all related factors and in the light of international practice.\nIt was noted that Mr. Justice Barr went out of his way to investigate the siege from every angle with a view to complete thoroughness, in contrast to the quick and casual nature of previous investigations.\nThe report includes minute details of the siege and Carthy's life, right down to a heartbreaking letter he wrote his girlfriend after their breakup, apologizing to her for being hot tempered with her, explaining that he often found it difficult to control his disorder.\n\nThe tribunal found that several events had occurred in Johns life to make him perceive that things were getting progressively worse for him. A breakup with his girlfriend, loss of employment, and most importantly, a false arrest combined with assault in custody combined with his gun being taken as a result of Garda subterfuge, on foot of a report, not properly investigated at the time and subsequently proven false, that he had threatened to shoot children in the Handball Alley, which he had used, and which he had been central to restoring.\nThe Tribunal concluded that the bad conduct of local Garda in these incidents towards him was the central theme behind his distrust of the force throughout the siege.\n\nOn the actual siege itself the report had the following central conclusions:\n\nHowever it was conceded that the ERU team on the day had no way of guessing what his intentions were, and could not have let him exit the outer perimeter with a loaded shotgun that he had been discharging frequently for two days.\n\n\nTaoiseach, Bertie Ahern made a public apology to the Carthy family on behalf of the Irish government. The Minister for Justice, Michael McDowell, admitted that the Carthy family was entitled to a profound expression of regret from the Irish State. Garda Ombudsman Commission member, Conor Brady, accepted that the Barr report outlined \"an unspeakable catalogue of personal failure by individual Gardaí\" and expressed his view that it was disturbing to see some Gardaí involved in a \"culture of cover up and circling the wagons\".\n\nHowever, the Garda Representative Association remained unapologetic noting that while Mr. Justice Barr had four years to compile his report, officers at the scene had only seconds to make up their minds. Symbolically, six weeks before the report was first due, the chief negotiator on the day, Detective Inspector Michael Jackson, was recommended by Garda management for promotion to the rank of superintendent. The Gardaí had been reluctant to give an apology with the Garda Commissioner Noel Conroy omitting an apology from a statement issued on 21 July 2006: \"The outcome of the siege at Abbeylara, which resulted in the death of John Carthy is very much regretted. As previously expressed at both the tribunal and the inquest, the sympathies of all members of An Garda Síochána are offered to Mrs Rose Carthy and the extended Carthy family\". At a subsequent press conference, John Carthy's sister, Marie, lambasted the Garda refusal to give an apology saying that it was regrettable that the Gardaí was still not accepting responsibility for her brother's death. Finally, on 10 August 2006, the Garda Síochána issued an apology to the Carthy family. They were, the statement said, \"truly apologetic for the loss of John's life\".\n\nReforms put in place as a result of the Barr Tribunal report have ensured that other armed sieges in Ireland, dealt with by a restructured armed response system, have ended without a single loss of life. In this respect at least, John Carthy's death was not in vain.\n\n"}
{"id": "50346757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50346757", "title": "Death playing chess", "text": "Death playing chess\n\nDeath playing chess (in Swedish: Döden spelar schack) is a monumental painting in Täby Church located just outside Stockholm, Sweden. It was painted around 1480–1490, by the Swedish medieval painter Albertus Pictor.\n\nA copy of the mural is stored in the collections of the Swedish Museum of History in Stockholm.\n\nThe artist was born with the name Albrecht, and was sometimes called Immenhusen, after the village Immenhusen in Hessen, Germany. It is assumed that Albertus was educated in southern Germany.\n\nHe is one of the most significant medieval Swedish artists. His works represent a unique combination of quality and quantity. He painted 36 churches in Malardalen and Norrbotten. He stands out as the most active artist in the Swedish church painting in the second half of the 15th century. He differs from other artists of the same period with his bright expression. His painting has unusual breadth and diversity in his technical performance. This mural represents how a knight plays chess with death and skillfully depicts figures with precise anatomical proportions, combining them with clothes and weapons, with a relatively realistic vision.\n\nThe mural inspired Ingmar Bergman to create the film \"The Seventh Seal\" in 1957.\n"}
{"id": "9553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9553", "title": "Empedocles", "text": "Empedocles\n\nEmpedocles (; , \"Empedoklēs\"; ) was a Greek pre-Socratic philosopher and a citizen of Akragas, a Greek city in Sicily. Empedocles' philosophy is best known for originating the cosmogonic theory of the four classical elements. He also proposed forces he called Love and Strife which would mix and separate the elements, respectively. These physical speculations were part of a history of the universe which also dealt with the origin and development of life.\n\nInfluenced by the Pythagoreans, Empedocles was a vegetarian who supported the doctrine of reincarnation. He is generally considered the last Greek philosopher to have recorded his ideas in verse. Some of his work survives, more than is the case for any other pre-Socratic philosopher. Empedocles' death was mythologized by ancient writers, and has been the subject of a number of literary treatments.\n\nEmpedocles was born, , at Akragas in Sicily to a distinguished family. Very little is known about his life. His father Meton seems to have been instrumental in overthrowing the tyrant of Akragas, presumably Thrasydaeus in 470 BC. Empedocles continued this tradition by helping to overthrow the succeeding oligarchic government. He is said to have been magnanimous in his support of the poor; severe in persecuting the overbearing conduct of the oligarchs; and he even declined the sovereignty of the city when it was offered to him.\n\nHis brilliant oratory, his penetrating knowledge of nature, and the reputation of his marvellous powers, including the curing of diseases, and averting epidemics, produced many myths and stories surrounding his name. In his poem \"Purifications\" he claimed miraculous powers, including the destruction of evil, the curing of old age, and the controlling of wind and rain.\n\nEmpedocles was acquainted or connected by friendship with the physicians Pausanias (his eromenos) and Acron; with various Pythagoreans; and even, it is said, with Parmenides and Anaxagoras. The only pupil of Empedocles who is mentioned is the sophist and rhetorician Gorgias.\n\nTimaeus and Dicaearchus spoke of the journey of Empedocles to the Peloponnese, and of the admiration, which was paid to him there; others mentioned his stay at Athens, and in the newly founded colony of Thurii, 446 BC; there are also fanciful reports of him travelling far to the east to the lands of the Magi.\n\nAccording to Aristotle, he died at the age of sixty (), even though other writers have him living up to the age of one hundred and nine. Likewise, there are myths concerning his death: a tradition, which is traced to Heraclides Ponticus, represented him as having been removed from the Earth; whereas others had him perishing in the flames of Mount Etna. \n\nThe contemporary \"Life of Empedocles\" by Xanthus has been lost.\n\nEmpedocles is considered the last Greek philosopher to write in verse and the surviving fragments of his teaching are from two poems, \"Purifications\" and \"On Nature\". Empedocles was undoubtedly acquainted with the didactic poems of Xenophanes and Parmenides—allusions to the latter can be found in the fragments—but he seems to have surpassed them in the animation and richness of his style, and in the clearness of his descriptions and diction. Aristotle called him the father of rhetoric, and, although he acknowledged only the meter as a point of comparison between the poems of Empedocles and the epics of Homer, he described Empedocles as Homeric and powerful in his diction. Lucretius speaks of him with enthusiasm, and evidently viewed him as his model. The two poems together comprised 5000 lines. About 550 lines of his poetry survive, although because ancient writers rarely mentioned which poem they were quoting, it is not always certain to which poem the quotes belong. Some scholars now believe that there was only one poem, and that the \"Purifications\" merely formed the beginning of \"On Nature\".\n\nWe possess only about 100 lines that have been ascribed to his \"Purifications\". It seems to have given a mythical account of the world which may, nevertheless, have been part of Empedocles' philosophical system. The first lines of the poem are preserved by Diogenes Laërtius:\n<poem>\nFriends who inhabit the mighty town by tawny Acragas\nwhich crowns the citadel, caring for good deeds,\ngreetings; I, an immortal God, no longer mortal,\nwander among you, honoured by all,\nadorned with holy diadems and blooming garlands.\nTo whatever illustrious towns I go,\nI am praised by men and women, and accompanied\nby thousands, who thirst for deliverance,\nsome ask for prophecies, and some entreat,\nfor remedies against all kinds of disease.\n</poem>\nIt was probably this work which contained a story about souls, where we are told that there were once spirits who lived in a state of bliss, but having committed a crime (the nature of which is unknown) they were punished by being forced to become mortal beings, reincarnated from body to body. Humans, animals, and even plants are such spirits. The moral conduct recommended in the poem may allow us to become like gods again.\n\nThere are about 450 lines of his poem \"On Nature\" extant, including 70 lines which have been reconstructed from some papyrus scraps known as the \"Strasbourg Papyrus\". The poem originally consisted of 2000 lines of hexameter verse, and was addressed to Pausanias. It was this poem which outlined his philosophical system. In it, Empedocles explains not only the nature and history of the universe, including his theory of the four classical elements, but he describes theories on causation, perception, and thought, as well as explanations of terrestrial phenomena and biological processes.\n\nAlthough acquainted with the theories of the Eleatics and the Pythagoreans, Empedocles did not belong to any one definite school. An eclectic in his thinking, he combined much that had been suggested by Parmenides, Pythagoras and the Ionian schools. He was a firm believer in Orphic mysteries, as well as a scientific thinker and a precursor of physics. Aristotle mentions Empedocles among the Ionic philosophers, and he places him in very close relation to the atomist philosophers and to Anaxagoras.\n\nAccording to House (1956)\n\nEmpedocles, like the Ionian philosophers and the atomists, continued the tradition of tragic thought which tried to find the basis of the relationship of the one and many. Each of the various philosophers, following Parmenides, derived from the Eleatics, the conviction that an existence could not pass into non-existence, and vice versa. Yet, each one had his peculiar way of describing this relation of Divine and mortal thought and thus of the relation of the One and the Many. In order to account for change in the world, in accordance with the ontological requirements of the Eleatics, they viewed changes as the result of mixture and separation of unalterable fundamental realities. Empedocles held that the four elements (Water, Air, Earth, and Fire) were those unchangeable fundamental realities, which were themselves transfigured into successive worlds by the powers of Love and Strife (Heraclitus had explicated the Logos or the \"unity of opposites\").\n\nEmpedocles established four ultimate elements which make all the structures in the world—fire, air, water, earth— in other words, the several states of matter are represented, being energies, gasses, liquids, and solids. Empedocles called these four elements \"roots\", which he also identified with the mythical names of Zeus, Hera, Nestis, and Aidoneus (e.g., \"Now hear the fourfold roots of everything: enlivening Hera, Hades, shining Zeus. And Nestis, moistening mortal springs with tears.\") Empedocles never used the term \"element\" (, \"stoicheion\"), which seems to have been first used by Plato. According to the different proportions in which these four indestructible and unchangeable elements are combined with each other the difference of the structure is produced. It is in the aggregation and segregation of elements thus arising, that Empedocles, like the atomists, found the real process which corresponds to what is popularly termed growth, increase or decrease. Nothing new comes or can come into being; the only change that can occur is a change in the juxtaposition of element with element. This theory of the four elements became the standard dogma for the next two thousand years.\n\nThe four elements, however, are simple, eternal, and unalterable, and as change is the consequence of their mixture and separation, it was also necessary to suppose the existence of moving powers that bring about mixture and separation. The four elements are both eternally brought into union and parted from one another by two divine powers, Love and . Love () is responsible for the attraction of different forms of matter, and Strife () is the cause of their separation. If the four elements make up the universe, then Love and Strife explain their variation and harmony. Love and Strife are attractive and repulsive forces, respectively, which are plainly observable in human behavior, but also pervade the universe. The two forces wax and wane in their dominance, but neither force ever wholly escapes the imposition of the other.\n\nAs the best and original state, there was a time when the pure elements and the two powers co-existed in a condition of rest and inertness in the form of a sphere. The elements existed together in their purity, without mixture and separation, and the uniting power of Love predominated in the sphere: the separating power of Strife guarded the extreme edges of the sphere. Since that time, strife gained more sway and the bond which kept the pure elementary substances together in the sphere was dissolved. The elements became the world of phenomena we see today, full of contrasts and oppositions, operated on by both Love and Strife. The sphere being the embodiment of pure existence is the embodiment or representative of God. Empedocles assumed a cyclical universe whereby the elements return and prepare the formation of the sphere for the next period of the universe.\n\nEmpedocles attempted to explain the separation of elements, the formation of earth and sea, of Sun and Moon, of atmosphere. He also dealt with the first origin of plants and animals, and with the physiology of humans. As the elements entered into combinations, there appeared strange results—heads without necks, arms without shoulders. Then as these fragmentary structures met, there were seen horned heads on human bodies, bodies of oxen with human heads, and figures of double sex. But most of these products of natural forces disappeared as suddenly as they arose; only in those rare cases where the parts were found to be adapted to each other did the complex structures last. Thus the organic universe sprang from spontaneous aggregations that suited each other as if this had been intended. Soon various influences reduced creatures of double sex to a male and a female, and the world was replenished with organic life. It is possible to see this theory as an anticipation of Charles Darwin's theory of natural selection, although Empedocles was not trying to explain evolution.\n\nEmpedocles is credited with the first comprehensive theory of light and vision. He put forward the idea that we see objects because light streams out of our eyes and touches them. While flawed, this became the fundamental basis on which later Greek philosophers and mathematicians like Euclid would construct some of the most important theories of light, vision, and optics.\n\nKnowledge is explained by the principle that elements in the things outside us are perceived by the corresponding elements in ourselves. Like is known by like. The whole body is full of pores and hence respiration takes place over the whole frame. In the organs of sense these pores are specially adapted to receive the effluences which are continually rising from bodies around us; thus perception occurs. In vision, certain particles go forth from the eye to meet similar particles given forth from the object, and the resultant contact constitutes vision. Perception is not merely a passive reflection of external objects.\n\nEmpedocles noted the limitation and narrowness of human perceptions. We see only a part but fancy that we have grasped the whole. But the senses cannot lead to truth; thought and reflection must look at the thing from every side. It is the business of a philosopher, while laying bare the fundamental difference of elements, to show the identity that exists between what seem unconnected parts of the universe.\n\nIn a famous fragment, Empedocles attempted to explain the phenomena of respiration by means of an elaborate analogy with the clepsydra, an ancient device for conveying liquids from one vessel to another. This fragment has sometimes been connected to a passage in Aristotle's \"Physics\" where Aristotle refers to people who twisted wineskins and captured air in clepsydras to demonstrate that void does not exist. There is however, no evidence that Empedocles performed any experiment with clepsydras. The fragment certainly implies that Empedocles knew about the corporeality of air, but he says nothing whatever about the void. The clepsydra was a common utensil and everyone who used it must have known, in some sense, that the invisible air could resist liquid.\n\nLike Pythagoras, Empedocles believed in the transmigration of the soul, that souls can be reincarnated between humans, animals and even plants. For Empedocles, all living things were on the same spiritual plane; plants and animals are links in a chain where humans are a link too. Empedocles was a vegetarian and advocated vegetarianism, since the bodies of animals are the dwelling places of punished souls. Wise people, who have learned the secret of life, are next to the divine, and their souls, free from the cycle of reincarnations, are able to rest in happiness for eternity.\n\nDiogenes Laërtius records the legend that Empedocles died by throwing himself into Mount Etna in Sicily, so that the people would believe his body had vanished and he had turned into an immortal god; the volcano, however, threw back one of his bronze sandals, revealing the deceit. Another legend maintains that he threw himself into the volcano to prove to his disciples that he was immortal; he believed he would come back as a god after being consumed by the fire. Horace also refers the death of Empedocles in his work \"Ars Poetica\" and admits poets the right to destroy themselves.\n\nIn \"Icaro-Menippus\", a comedic dialogue written by the second century satirist Lucian of Samosata, Empedocles’ final fate is re-evaluated. Rather than being incinerated in the fires of Mount Etna, he was carried up into the heavens by a volcanic eruption. Although a bit singed by the ordeal, Empedocles survives and continues his life on the Moon, surviving by feeding on dew.\n\nEmpedocles' death has inspired two major modern literary treatments. Empedocles' death is the subject of Friedrich Hölderlin's play \"Tod des Empedokles\" (\"The Death of Empedocles\"), two versions of which were written between the years 1798 and 1800. A third version was made public in 1826. In Matthew Arnold's poem \"Empedocles on Etna\", a narrative of the philosopher's last hours before he jumps to his death in the crater first published in 1852, Empedocles predicts:\n<poem>\nTo the elements it came from\nEverything will return.\nOur bodies to earth,\nOur blood to water,\nHeat to fire,\nBreath to air.\n</poem>\n\nIn his \"History of Western Philosophy\", Bertrand Russell humorously quotes an unnamed poet on the subject – \"Great Empedocles, that ardent soul, Leapt into Etna, and was roasted whole.\"\n\nIn \"J R\" by William Gaddis, Karl Marx's famous dictum (\"From each according to his abilities, to each according to his needs\") is misattributed to Empedocles.\n\nIn 2006, a massive underwater volcano off the coast of Sicily was named Empedocles.\n\nIn 2016, Scottish musician Momus wrote and sung the song \"The Death of Empedokles\" for his album \"Scobberlotchers\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3827197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3827197", "title": "Epistemic modal logic", "text": "Epistemic modal logic\n\nEpistemic modal logic is a subfield of modal logic that is concerned with reasoning about knowledge. While epistemology has a long philosophical tradition dating back to Ancient Greece, epistemic logic is a much more recent development with applications in many fields, including philosophy, theoretical computer science, artificial intelligence, economics and linguistics. While philosophers since Aristotle have discussed modal logic, and Medieval philosophers such as Avicenna, Ockham, and Duns Scotus developed many of their observations, it was C. I. Lewis who created the first symbolic and systematic approach to the topic, in 1912. It continued to mature as a field, reaching its modern form in 1963 with the work of Kripke.\n\nMany papers were written in the 1950s that spoke of a logic of knowledge in passing, but it was Finnish philosopher von Wright's paper \"An Essay in Modal Logic\" from 1951 that is seen as a founding document. It was not until 1962 that another Finn, Hintikka, would write \"Knowledge and Belief\", the first book-length work to suggest using modalities to capture the semantics of knowledge rather than the alethic statements typically discussed in modal logic. This work laid much of the groundwork for the subject, but a great deal of research has taken place since that time. For example, epistemic logic has been combined recently with some ideas from dynamic logic to create dynamic epistemic logic, which can be used to specify and reason about information change and exchange of information in multi-agent systems. The seminal works in this field are by Plaza, Van Benthem, and Baltag, Moss, and Solecki.\n\nMost attempts at modeling knowledge have been based on the possible worlds model. In order to do this, we must divide the set of possible worlds between those that are compatible with an agent's knowledge, and those that are not. This generally conforms with common usage. If I know that it is either Friday or Saturday, then I know for sure that it is not Thursday. There is no possible world compatible with my knowledge where it is Thursday, since in all these worlds it is either Friday or Saturday. While we will primarily be discussing the logic-based approach to accomplishing this task, it is worthwhile to mention here the other primary method in use, the event-based approach. In this particular usage, events are sets of possible worlds, and knowledge is an operator on events. Though the strategies are closely related, there are two important distinctions to be made between them:\nTypically, the logic-based approach has been used in fields such as philosophy, logic and AI, while the event-based approach is more often used in fields such as game theory and mathematical economics. In the logic-based approach, a syntax and semantics have been built using the language of modal logic, which we will now describe.\n\nThe basic modal operator of epistemic logic, usually written \"K\", can be read as \"it is known that,\" \"it is epistemically necessary that,\" or \"it is inconsistent with what is known that not.\" If there is more than one agent whose knowledge is to be represented, subscripts can be attached to the operator (formula_1, formula_2, etc.) to indicate which agent one is talking about. So formula_3 can be read as \"Agent formula_4 knows that formula_5.\" Thus, epistemic logic can be an example of multimodal logic applied for knowledge representation. The dual of \"K\", which would be in the same relationship to \"K\" as formula_6 is to formula_7, has no specific symbol, but can be represented by formula_8, which can be read as \"formula_4 does not know that not formula_5\" or \"It is consistent with formula_4's knowledge that formula_5 is possible\". The statement \"formula_4 does not know whether or not formula_5\" can be expressed as formula_15.\n\nIn order to accommodate notions of common knowledge and distributed knowledge, three other modal operators can be added to the language. These are formula_16, which reads \"every agent in group G knows;\" formula_17, which reads \"it is common knowledge to every agent in G;\" and formula_18, which reads \"it is distributed knowledge to every agent in G.\" If formula_5 is a formula of our language, then so are formula_20, formula_21, and formula_22. Just as the subscript after formula_23 can be omitted when there is only one agent, the subscript after the modal operators formula_24, formula_25, and formula_26 can be omitted when the group is the set of all agents.\n\nAs we mentioned above, the logic-based approach is built upon the possible worlds model, the semantics of which are often given definite form in Kripke structures, also known as Kripke models. A Kripke structure \"M\" for \"n\" agents over formula_27 is a (n+2)-tuple formula_28, where S is a nonempty set of \"states\" or \"possible worlds\", formula_29 is an \"interpretation\", which associates with each state in S a truth assignment to the primitive propositions in formula_27, and formula_31 are binary relations on S for \"n\" numbers of agents. It is important here not to confuse formula_32, our modal operator, and formula_33, our accessibility relation.\n\nThe truth assignment tells us whether or not a proposition \"p\" is true or false in a certain state. So formula_34 tells us whether \"p\" is true in state \"s\" in model formula_35. Truth depends not only on the structure, but on the current world as well. Just because something is true in one world does not mean it is true in another. To state that a formula formula_5 is true at a certain world, one writes formula_37, normally read as \"formula_5 is true at (M,s),\" or \"(M,s) satisfies formula_5\".\n\nIt is useful to think of our binary relation formula_33 as a \"possibility\" relation, because it is meant to capture what worlds or states agent \"i\" considers to be possible. In idealized accounts of knowledge (e.g., describing the epistemic status of perfect reasoners with infinite memory capacity), it makes sense for formula_33 to be an equivalence relation, since this is the strongest form and is the most appropriate for the greatest number of applications. An equivalence relation is a binary relation that is reflexive, symmetric, and transitive. The accessibility relation does not have to have these qualities; there are certainly other choices possible, such as those used when modeling belief rather than knowledge.\n\nAssuming that formula_33 is an equivalence relation, and that the agents are perfect reasoners, a few properties of knowledge can be derived. The properties listed here are often known as the \"S5 Properties,\" for reasons described in the Axiom Systems section below.\n\nThis axiom is traditionally known as K. In epistemic terms, it states that if an agent knows formula_5 and knows that formula_44, then the agent must also know formula_45. So,\n\nAnother property we can derive is that if formula_47 is valid, then formula_48. This does not mean that if formula_47 is true, then agent i knows formula_47. What it means is that if formula_47 is true in every world that an agent considers to be a possible world, then the agent must know formula_47 at every possible world. This principle is traditionally called N.\n\nThis axiom is also known as T. It says that if an agent knows facts, the facts must be true. This has often been taken as the major distinguishing feature between knowledge and belief. We can believe a statement to be true when it is false, but it would be impossible to \"know\" a false statement.\n\nThis property and the next state that an agent has introspection about its own knowledge, and are traditionally known as 4 and 5, respectively. The Positive Introspection Axiom, also known as the KK Axiom, says specifically that agents \"know that they know what they know\". This axiom may seem less obvious than the ones listed previously, and Timothy Williamson has argued against its inclusion forcefully in his book, \"Knowledge and Its Limits\".\n\nThe Negative Introspection Axiom says that agents \"know that they do not know what they do not know\".\n\nDifferent modal logics can be derived from taking different subsets of these axioms, and these logics are normally named after the important axioms being employed. However, this is not always the case. KT45, the modal logic that results from the combining of K, T, 4, 5, and the Knowledge Generalization Rule, is primarily known as S5. This is why the properties of knowledge described above are often called the S5 Properties.\n\nEpistemic logic also deals with belief, not just knowledge. The basic modal operator is usually written \"B\" instead of \"K\". In this case though, the knowledge axiom no longer seems right—agents only sometimes believe the truth—so it is usually replaced with the Consistency Axiom, traditionally called D:\n\nwhich states that the agent does not believe a contradiction, or that which is false. When D replaces T in S5, the resulting system is known as KD45. This results in different properties for formula_33 as well. For example, in a system where an agent \"believes\" something to be true, but it is not actually true, the accessibility relation would be non-reflexive. The logic of belief is called doxastic logic.\n\nThe notion of knowledge discussed does not take into account computational constraints on inference. If we take the possible worlds approach to knowledge, it follows that our epistemic agent \"a\" knows all the logical consequences of his or her or its beliefs. If formula_59 is a logical consequence of formula_60, then there is no possible world where formula_60 is true but formula_59 is not. So if \"a\" knows that formula_60, it follows that all of the logical consequences of formula_60 are true of all of the possible worlds compatible with \"a\" 's beliefs. Therefore, \"a\" knows formula_59. It is not epistemically possible for \"a\" that not-formula_59 given his knowledge that formula_60. This consideration was a part of what led Robert Stalnaker to develop two dimensionalism, which can arguably explain how we might not know all the logical consequences of our beliefs even if there are no worlds where the propositions we know come out true but their consequences false.\n\nEven when we ignore possible world semantics and stick to axiomatic systems, this peculiar feature holds. With K and N (the Distribution Rule and the Knowledge Generalization Rule, respectively), which are axioms that are minimally true of all normal modal logics, we can prove that we know all the logical consequences of our beliefs. If formula_59 is a logical consequence of formula_60, then we can derive formula_70 with N and the conditional proof and then formula_71 with K. When we translate this into epistemic terms, this says that if formula_59 is a logical consequence of formula_60, then \"a\" knows that it is, and if \"a\" knows formula_60, \"a\" knows formula_59. That is to say, \"a\" knows all the logical consequences of every proposition. This is necessarily true of all classical modal logics. But then, for example, if \"a\" knows that prime numbers are divisible only by themselves and the number one, then \"a\" knows that 8683317618811886495518194401279999999 is prime (since this number is only divisible by itself and the number one). That is to say, under the modal interpretation of knowledge, when \"a\" knows the definition of a prime number, \"a\" knows that this number is prime. It should be clear at this point that \"a\" is not human. This shows that epistemic modal logic is an idealized account of knowledge, and explains objective, rather than subjective knowledge (if anything).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3865832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3865832", "title": "Evolution@Home", "text": "Evolution@Home\n\nEvolution@Home is the first parallel computing project for evolutionary biology. The aim of Evolution@Home is to improve understanding of evolutionary processes. This is achieved by simulating individual-based models. The first such model targets the accumulation of mutations in asexual populations and is implemented in Simulator005. The software of Evolution@Home is not the first to simulate this, but previous simulations were hampered by lack of memory (needed for looking at large populations) and lack of computing power (needed for observing long-term evolution and many different parameter combinations). The possibility of parallel computing has allowed Evolution@Home to move the realism of simulated parameter combinations significantly towards observed reality.\n\nCurrently the project can be operated semi-automatically, which means that a participant has to manually download tasks from the webpage and submit results by email using this method of operation. Yoyo@home used a BOINC wrapper to completely automate this project by automatically distributing tasks and collecting their results. Therefore, the BOINC version was a complete distributed computing project. Yoyo@home has declared its involvement in this project finished.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22193297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22193297", "title": "Freedom from Union Violence Act", "text": "Freedom from Union Violence Act\n\nThe Freedom from Union Violence Act of 1997 and 2007 were identical bills proposed in the United States Congress. Their intended purpose was to amend the Hobbs Act and make violence committed in pursuit of labor union goals a federal crime. They would impose a fine of up to $100,000, 20 years imprisonment, or both, on labor unions that commit or threaten to use violence, extortion, or the obstruction of commerce in the furtherance of labor union goals and objectives.\n\nThe bills faced strong opposition from labor unions and others, especially for the clause that would disallow \"obstruction of commerce,\" and failed to pass into law both times. Opponents noted that violence and extortion were already crimes, and argued that there was no need to pass a special law setting aside union violence and union extortion as being especially heinous.\n\nThe Hobbs Act, passed in 1946, was an anti-racketeering act intended to deter robbery and extortion across state lines. It was commonly used to prosecute unions involved in restraint-of-trade to intimidate management. In 1970, the federal government attempted to expand the Hobbs Act to be used against violence as well. The indictment was appealed all the way up to the Supreme Court, discussing whether the Hobbs Act could be construed to cover violence as well. In the 1973 Supreme Court case \"United States v. Enmons\", the ruling declared that the Hobbs Act as written did not cover such incidents, and cited Congressional debates at the time of passage that it was not intended to. Still, nothing prevented a new law from being passed.\n\nProponents of the Freedom from Union Violence Act have attempted to portray the \"United States v. Enmons\" as giving legal immunity to unions who engage in violence, though such an interpretation is incorrect; violence would fall under normal state laws prohibiting such activity.\n\nThe National Right to Work Committee, a strong proponent of the FUVA [states]:\nThe Freedom from Union Violence Act closes a loophole in the federal Hobbs Anti-Extortion Act, eliminating the special judicially-created exemption in this law for union-related violence and extortion and holding union officials to the same legal standards as other Americans.\n\nThis legislation would establish that the 1946 Hobbs Act applies to all Americans, including union officials seeking to advance so-called \"legitimate union objectives.\" Present law offers this unique exemption for union officials.\n\nNILRR union violence investigations have determined that union violence is responsible for at least 203 Americans deaths since 1975; 5,869 incidents of personal injury; and more than 6,435 incidents of vandalism and tens of millions of dollars in property damage.\n\nThe NWRC position on FUVA may be found [here].\n\nHowever, opponents of FUVA claim that the existence of union violence has been greatly exaggerated. In a law review article, Julius G. Getman and F. Ray Marshall, The Continuing Assault on the Right to Strike, 79 Tex. L. Rev. 703, 712-13 (2001), law professor Julius Getman and former Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, analyzed the evidence of union violence.\n\nThe claim that strike violence is \"escalating\" has no empirical basis. Even the study conducted by the National Institute for Labor Relations Research - cited regularly as authority for this proposition by FUVA's proponents - draws no such conclusion. And the study itself is a scholarly monstrosity that seeks to study union violence by compiling media reports, mainly newspaper articles concerning strike violence. The Institute admits that it did not actually investigate any of the incidents reported and does not know if the reports are accurate. It concludes: \"Because it relies on news accounts the Institute cannot guarantee the accuracy of the file itself.\" In fact, articles about employer-instigated violence are included in the study's effort to determine union violence. n59 It seems obvious that the methodology employed confuses those strikes most written about with those most violent. Further, the Institute includes incidents of \"psychological violence; i.e., intimidation, coercion and verbal threats\" - terms which it does not bother to define. It seems clear, however, that this definition would include nonviolent civil disobedience of the type used by the civil rights movement and increasingly by the labor movement. But whatever the definition, it is almost certain that strike-related violence has decreased since the Enmons decision because the number of strikes has declined significantly.\n\n"}
{"id": "49180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49180", "title": "Fuzzy logic", "text": "Fuzzy logic\n\nFuzzy logic is a form of many-valued logic in which the truth values of variables may be any real number between 0 and 1. It is employed to handle the concept of partial truth, where the truth value may range between completely true and completely false. By contrast, in Boolean logic, the truth values of variables may only be the integer values 0 or 1.\n\nThe term \"fuzzy logic\" was introduced with the 1965 proposal of fuzzy set theory by Lotfi Zadeh. Fuzzy logic had however been studied since the 1920s, as infinite-valued logic—notably by Łukasiewicz and Tarski.\n\nIt is based on the observation that people make decisions based on imprecise and non-numerical information, fuzzy models or sets are mathematical means of representing vagueness and imprecise information, hence the term fuzzy. These models have the capability of recognising, representing, manipulating, interpreting, and utilising data and information that are vague and lack certainty.\n\nFuzzy logic has been applied to many fields, from control theory to artificial intelligence.\n\nClassical logic only permits conclusions which are either true or false. However, there are also propositions with variable answers, such as one might find when asking a group of people to identify a color. In such instances, the truth appears as the result of reasoning from inexact or partial knowledge in which the sampled answers are mapped on a spectrum.\n\nBoth degrees of truth and probabilities range between 0 and 1 and hence may seem similar at first, but fuzzy logic uses degrees of truth as a mathematical model of \"vagueness\", while probability is a mathematical model of \"ignorance\".\n\nA basic application might characterize various sub-ranges of a continuous variable. For instance, a temperature measurement for anti-lock brakes might have several separate membership functions defining particular temperature ranges needed to control the brakes properly. Each function maps the same temperature value to a truth value in the 0 to 1 range. These truth values can then be used to determine how the brakes should be controlled.\n\nWhile variables in mathematics usually take numerical values, in fuzzy logic applications, non-numeric values are often used to facilitate the expression of rules and facts.\n\nA linguistic variable such as \"age\" may accept values such as \"young\" and its antonym \"old\". Because natural languages do not always contain enough value terms to express a fuzzy value scale, it is common practice to modify linguistic values with adjectives or adverbs. For example, we can use the hedges \"rather\" and \"somewhat\" to construct the additional values \"rather old\" or \"somewhat young\".\n\nFuzzification operations can map mathematical input values into fuzzy membership functions. And the opposite de-fuzzifying operations can be used to map a fuzzy output membership functions into a \"crisp\" output value that can be then used for decision or control purposes.\n\n\nIn this image, the meanings of the expressions \"cold\", \"warm\", and \"hot\" are represented by functions mapping a temperature scale. A point on that scale has three \"truth values\"—one for each of the three functions. The vertical line in the image represents a particular temperature that the three arrows (truth values) gauge. Since the red arrow points to zero, this temperature may be interpreted as \"not hot\". The orange arrow (pointing at 0.2) may describe it as \"slightly warm\" and the blue arrow (pointing at 0.8) \"fairly cold\".\n\nFuzzy sets are often defined as triangle or trapezoid-shaped curves, as each value will have a slope where the value is increasing, a peak where the value is equal to 1 (which can have a length of 0 or greater) and a slope where the value is decreasing. They can also be defined using a sigmoid function. One common case is the standard logistic function defined as\n\nwhich has the following symmetry property\n\nFrom this it follows that\n\nformula_3\n\nFuzzy logic works with membership values in a way that mimics Boolean logic. To this end, replacements for basic operators AND, OR, NOT must be available. There are several ways to this. A common replacement is called the \"Zadeh operators\":\n\nFor TRUE/1 and FALSE/0, the fuzzy expressions produce the same result as the Boolean expressions.\n\nThere are also other operators, more linguistic in nature, called \"hedges\" that can be applied. These are generally adverbs such as \"very\", or \"somewhat\", which modify the meaning of a set using a mathematical formula.\n\nHowever, an arbitrary choice table does not always define a fuzzy logic function. In the paper, a criterion has been formulated to recognize whether a given choice table defines a fuzzy logic function and a simple algorithm of fuzzy logic function synthesis has been proposed based on introduced concepts of constituents of minimum and maximum. A fuzzy logic function represents a disjunction of constituents of minimum, where a constituent of minimum is a conjunction of variables of the current area greater than or equal to the function value in this area (to the right of the function value in the inequality, including the function value).\n\nAnother set of AND/OR operators is based on multiplication\nx AND y = x*y\nx OR y = 1-(1-x)*(1-y) = x+y-x*y\n1-(1-x)*(1-y) comes from this:\nx OR y = NOT( AND( NOT(x), NOT(y) ) )\nx OR y = NOT( AND(1-x, 1-y) )\nx OR y = NOT( (1-x)*(1-y) )\nx OR y = 1-(1-x)*(1-y)\n\nIF-THEN rules map input or computed truth values to desired output truth values. Example:\n\nIF temperature IS very cold THEN fan_speed is stopped\nIF temperature IS cold THEN fan_speed is slow\nIF temperature IS warm THEN fan_speed is moderate\nIF temperature IS hot THEN fan_speed is high\nGiven a certain temperature, the fuzzy variable \"hot\" has a certain truth value, which is copied to the \"high\" variable.\n\nShould an output variable occur in several THEN parts, then the values from the respective IF parts are combined using the OR operator.\n\nThe goal is to get a continuous variable from fuzzy truth values.\n\nThis would be easy if the output truth values were exactly those obtained from fuzzification of a given number.\nSince, however, all output truth values are computed independently, in most cases they do not represent such a set of numbers.\nOne has then to decide for a number that matches best the \"intention\" encoded in the truth value.\nFor example, for several truth values of fan_speed, an actual speed must be found that best fits the computed truth values of the variables 'slow', 'medium' and so on. \n\nThere is no single algorithm for this purpose.\n\nA common algorithm is\n\nSince the fuzzy system output is a consensus of all of the inputs and all of the rules, fuzzy logic systems can be well behaved when input values are not available or are not trustworthy. Weightings can be optionally added to each rule in the rulebase and weightings can be used to regulate the degree to which a rule affects the output values. These rule weightings can be based upon the priority, reliability or consistency of each rule. These rule weightings may be static or can be changed dynamically, even based upon the output from other rules.\n\nMany of the early successful applications of fuzzy logic were implemented in Japan. The first notable application was on the subway train in Sendai, in which fuzzy logic was able to improve the economy, comfort, and precision of the ride. It has also been used in recognition of hand written symbols in Sony pocket computers, flight aid for helicopters, controlling of subway systems in order to improve driving comfort, precision of halting, and power economy, improved fuel consumption for automobiles, single-button control for washing machines, automatic motor control for vacuum cleaners with recognition of surface condition and degree of soiling, and prediction systems for early recognition of earthquakes through the Institute of Seismology Bureau of Meteorology, Japan.\n\nIn mathematical logic, there are several formal systems of \"fuzzy logic\", most of which are in the family of t-norm fuzzy logics.\n\nThe most important propositional fuzzy logics are:\n\nThese extend the above-mentioned fuzzy logics by adding universal and existential quantifiers in a manner similar to the way that predicate logic is created from propositional logic. The semantics of the universal (resp. existential) quantifier in t-norm fuzzy logics is the infimum (resp. supremum) of the truth degrees of the instances of the quantified subformula.\n\nThe notions of a \"decidable subset\" and \"recursively enumerable subset\" are basic ones for classical mathematics and classical logic. Thus the question of a suitable extension of them to fuzzy set theory is a crucial one. A first proposal in such a direction was made by E.S. Santos by the notions of \"fuzzy Turing machine\", \"Markov normal fuzzy algorithm\" and \"fuzzy program\" (see Santos 1970). Successively, L. Biacino and G. Gerla argued that the proposed definitions are rather questionable. For example, in one shows that the fuzzy Turing machines are not adequate for fuzzy language theory since there are natural fuzzy languages intuitively computable that cannot be recognized by a fuzzy Turing Machine. Then, they proposed the following definitions. Denote by \"Ü\" the set of rational numbers in [0,1]. Then a fuzzy subset \"s\" : \"S\" formula_4[0,1] of a set \"S\" is recursively enumerable if a recursive map \"h\" : \"S\"×\"N\" formula_4\"Ü\" exists such that, for every \"x\" in \"S\", the function \"h\"(\"x\",\"n\") is increasing with respect to \"n\" and \"s\"(\"x\") = lim \"h\"(\"x\",\"n\").\nWe say that \"s\" is \"decidable\" if both \"s\" and its complement –\"s\" are recursively enumerable. An extension of such a theory to the general case of the L-subsets is possible (see Gerla 2006).\nThe proposed definitions are well related with fuzzy logic. Indeed, the following theorem holds true (provided that the deduction apparatus of the considered fuzzy logic satisfies some obvious effectiveness property).\n\nAny \"axiomatizable\" fuzzy theory is recursively enumerable. In particular, the fuzzy set of logically true formulas is recursively enumerable in spite of the fact that the crisp set of valid formulas is not recursively enumerable, in general. Moreover, any axiomatizable and complete theory is decidable.\n\nIt is an open question to give supports for a \"Church thesis\" for fuzzy mathematics, the proposed notion of recursive enumerability for fuzzy subsets is the adequate one. In order to solve this, an extension of the notions of fuzzy grammar and fuzzy Turing machine are necessary. Another open question is to start from this notion to find an extension of Gödel's theorems to fuzzy logic.\n\nOnce fuzzy relations are defined, it is possible to develop fuzzy relational databases. The first fuzzy relational database, FRDB, appeared in Maria Zemankova's dissertation (1983). Later, some other models arose like the Buckles-Petry model, the Prade-Testemale Model, the Umano-Fukami model or the GEFRED model by J.M. Medina, M.A. Vila et al.\n\nFuzzy querying languages have been defined, such as the SQLf by P. Bosc et al. and the FSQL by J. Galindo et al. These languages define some structures in order to include fuzzy aspects in the SQL statements, like fuzzy conditions, fuzzy comparators, fuzzy constants, fuzzy constraints, fuzzy thresholds, linguistic labels etc.\n\nFuzzy logic and probability address different forms of uncertainty. While both fuzzy logic and probability theory can represent degrees of certain kinds of subjective belief, fuzzy set theory uses the concept of fuzzy set membership, i.e., how much an observation is within a vaguely defined set, and probability theory uses the concept of subjective probability, i.e., likelihood of some event or condition. The concept of fuzzy sets was developed in the mid-twentieth century at Berkeley as a response to the lacking of probability theory for jointly modelling uncertainty and vagueness.\n\nBart Kosko claims in Fuzziness vs. Probability that probability theory is a subtheory of fuzzy logic, as questions of degrees of belief in mutually-exclusive set membership in probability theory can be represented as certain cases of non-mutually-exclusive graded membership in fuzzy theory. In that context, he also derives Bayes' theorem from the concept of fuzzy subsethood. Lotfi A. Zadeh argues that fuzzy logic is different in character from probability, and is not a replacement for it. He fuzzified probability to fuzzy probability and also generalized it to possibility theory.\n\nMore generally, fuzzy logic is one of many different extensions to classical logic intended to deal with issues of uncertainty outside of the scope of classical logic, the inapplicability of probability theory in many domains, and the paradoxes of Dempster-Shafer theory.\n\nComputational theorist Leslie Valiant uses the term \"ecorithms\" to describe how many less exact systems and techniques like fuzzy logic (and \"less robust\" logic) can be applied to learning algorithms. Valiant essentially redefines machine learning as evolutionary. In general use, ecorithms are algorithms that learn from their more complex environments (hence \"eco-\") to generalize, approximate and simplify solution logic. Like fuzzy logic, they are methods used to overcome continuous variables or systems too complex to completely enumerate or understand discretely or exactly. Ecorithms and fuzzy logic also have the common property of dealing with possibilities more than probabilities, although feedback and feed forward, basically stochastic weights, are a feature of both when dealing with, for example, dynamical systems.\n\nCompensatory fuzzy logic (CFL) is a branch of fuzzy logic with modified rules for conjunction and disjunction. When the truth value of one component of a conjunction or disjunction is increased or decreased, the other component is decreased or increased to compensate. This increase or decrease in truth value may be offset by the increase or decrease in another component. An offset may be blocked when certain thresholds are met. Proponents claim that CFL allows for better computational semantic behaviors and mimic natural language.\n\nCompensatory Fuzzy Logic consists of four continuous operators: conjunction (c); disjunction (d); fuzzy strict order (or); and negation (n). The conjunction is the geometric mean and its dual as conjunctive and disjunctive operators.\n\nThe IEEE 1855, the IEEE STANDARD 1855–2016, is about a specification language named Fuzzy Markup Language (FML) developed by the IEEE Standards Association. FML allows modelling a fuzzy logic system in a human-readable and hardware independent way. FML is based on eXtensible Markup Language (XML). The designers of fuzzy systems with FML have a unified and high-level methodology for describing interoperable fuzzy systems. IEEE STANDARD 1855–2016 uses the W3C XML Schema definition language to define the syntax and semantics of the FML programs.\n\nPrior to the introduction of FML, fuzzy logic practitioners could exchange information about their fuzzy algorithms by  adding to their software functions the ability to read, correctly parse, and store the results of their work in a  form compatible with the Fuzzy Control Language (FCL) described and specified by Part 7 of IEC 61131.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39680796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39680796", "title": "Gaius Aemilius Mamercus", "text": "Gaius Aemilius Mamercus\n\nGaius Aemilius Mamercus was a Roman statesman who may have served as Dictator in 463 BC.\n\nNo dictator is listed for this year in the \"fasti consulares\", but Lydus says that there was a Dictator in the forty-eighty year of the republic. Bendel links this with the story that the senate appointed a Dictator \"clavi figendi causa\" in 363 BC because that had worked to stop a pestilence a century earlier and concludes that Mamercus was this Dictator. Broughton sees this as an insufficient reason to say that Mamercus was dictator in 463 BC, and suggests that Lydus has confused a Dictator with an Interrex.\n"}
{"id": "6396552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6396552", "title": "Hoover (seal)", "text": "Hoover (seal)\n\nHoover ( – July 25, 1985) was a harbor seal who was able to imitate basic human speech.\n\nOn May 5, 1971, Scottie Dunning discovered a tiny male harbor seal pup on the shore of Cundy’s Harbor, Maine. After a failed attempt at locating the pup’s mother, Dunning called his brother-in-law George Swallow for help. When Swallow arrived, the two searched for the mother seal and later found her dead among the rocks.\n\nAfter careful consideration, Swallow finally decided to take the seal pup home with him. At first, it refused to drink milk from a bottle, but once advice was given by a neighbor to grind up fish and offer it to the pup, he sucked it up like a hoover (vacuum cleaner), hence his name.\n\nThe Swallows kept him in their bathtub, but this proved too inconvenient within a few days. So George moved him out back to a spring-fed pond where he set up a “pup tent” enclosed by a wire fence. Hoover lived very much like a family dog and even accompanied George riding into town with his head poking out of the window.\n\nAs Hoover grew, so did his appetite, and the Swallows found themselves contracting a firm in Portland, Maine, to supply them with enough fish. The Swallows spoke to the seal pup constantly. Alice Swallow recalls in her book, \"Hoover the Seal and George\": “If George was late in giving Hoover his breakfast [he] found his way up to the back steps … George would yell, “Hello, there.” George and Hoover were great friends. Sometimes Hoover would hide … and would not appear until George yelled, “Get out of there and come over here!” Then Hoover would come out of hiding and rush over to George and greet him with a wet, fishy kiss.” It was during this time that Hoover began to mimic George’s thick, gruff accent and catchphrases.\n\nSoon, however, the Swallows reluctantly decided they could not keep Hoover, due to his increasing growth and enormous fish intake. In August, they contacted the New England Aquarium, who agreed to accept Hoover at their facility.\n\nUpon their arrival, George informed the Aquarium staff that Hoover could talk, but none of the attendants believed him so he did not press the point. It wasn’t until 5 years later, as an adult seal, that Hoover became comfortable with his surroundings at the Aquarium and began to utter phrases such as: “Hello, there!” and “Come Over Here!” in a thick New England accent similar to Swallow’s.\n\nOn account of this unique feature, Hoover became famous and appeared along with the Swallows in publications such as \"Reader’s Digest\" and \"The New Yorker\" and the television program \"Good Morning, America\".\n\nHoover died on July 25, 1985, due to complications during his annual molt. His obituary was published in \"The Boston Globe\".\n\nNone of Hoover's six pups (daughters Joey, Amelia, and Trumpet and sons Lucifer, Cinder, and Spark) spoke, but his grandson Chacoda (or \"Chucky\") has shown an ability to be guided in his vocalizations. As of 2007, Chucky remains vocal but has not shown an ability to mimic human speech. Aquarium staff continue to work with him.\n\nOn the British comedy panel game show \"QI\" (\"Quite Interesting\"), host Stephen Fry asked the question: “What is meant by the expression \"Hoover the talking seal”?” Panelist Roger McGough answered, “Well, it's either one of those wonderful Oz expressions for throwing up: Excuse me, I've got to go hoover the talking seal”; to which Fry replied: “...or my wife came in just as I was hoovering the talking seal.”\n\nIn 2013, Derek Kaloust and Anna Tillett wrote a children’s book about Hoover and the Swallows entitled \"Hoover the Talking Seal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40715082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40715082", "title": "Hypogeal germination", "text": "Hypogeal germination\n\nHypogeal germination (from Ancient Greek [] 'below ground', from [] 'below' and [] 'earth, ground') is a botanical term indicating that the germination of a plant takes place below the ground. An example of a plant with hypogeal germination is the pea (\"Pisum sativum\"). The opposite of hypogeal is epigeal (above-ground germination).\n\nHypogeal germination implies that the cotyledons stay below the ground. The epicotyl (part of the stem above the cotyledon) grows, while the hypocotyl (part of the stem below the cotyledon) stays the same length. In this way, the epicotyl pushes the plumule above the ground.\n\nNormally, the cotyledon is fleshy, and contains many nutrients that are used for germination. No photosynthesis takes place within the cotyledon.\n\nBecause the cotyledon stays below the ground, it is much less vulnerable to for example night-frost or grazing. The evolutionary strategy is that the plant produces a relatively low number of seeds, but each seed has a bigger chance of surviving.\n\nPlants that show hypogeal germination need relatively little in the way of external nutrients to grow, therefore they are more frequent on nutrient-poor soils. The plants also need less sunlight, so they can be found more often in the middle of forests, where there is much competition to reach the sunlight.\n\nPlants that show hypogeal germination grow relatively slowly, especially in the first phase. In areas that are regularly flooded, they need more time between floodings to develop. On the other hand, they are more resistant when a flooding takes place. After the slower first phase, the plant develops faster than plants that show epigeal germination.\n\nIt is possible that within the same genus one species shows hypogeal germination while another species shows epigeal germination. Some genera in which this happens are:\n\nIn 1965, botanist James A. Duke introduced the terms cryptocotylar and phanerocotylar as synonyms for hypogeal and epigeal respectively, because he didn't consider these terms etymologically correct. Later, it was discovered that there are rare cases of species where the germination is epigeal and cryptocotylar. Therefore, divisions have been proposed that take both factors into account.\n"}
{"id": "44409729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44409729", "title": "Individual mobility", "text": "Individual mobility\n\nIndividual human mobility is the study that describes how individual humans move within a network or system. The concept has been researched by a number of fields originating in the study of demographics. Understanding human mobility has many applications in diverse areas, including spread of diseases, mobile viruses, city planning, traffic engineering, financial market forecasting, and nowcasting of economic well-being.\n\nIn recent years, there has been a surge in large data sets available on human movements. These data sets are usually obtained from cell phone or GPS data, with varying degrees of accuracy. For example, cell phone data is usually recorded whenever a call or a text message has been made or received by the user, and contains the location of the tower that the phone has connected to as well as the time stamp. In urban areas, user and the telecommunication tower might be only a few hundred meters away from each other, while in rural areas this distance might well be in region of a few kilometers. Therefore, there is varying degree of accuracy when it comes to locating a person using cell phone data. These datasets are anonymized by the phone companies so as to hide and protect the identity of actual users. As example of its usage, researchers used the trajectory of 100,000 cell phone users within a period of six months, while in much larger scale trajectories of three million cell phone users were analyzed.\nGPS data are usually much more accurate even though they usually are, because of privacy concerns, much harder to acquire. Massive amounts of GPS data describing human mobility are produced, for example, by on-board GPS devices on private vehicles. The GPS device automatically turns on when the vehicle starts, and the sequence of GPS points the device produces every few seconds forms a detailed mobility trajectory of the vehicle. Some recent scientific studies compared the mobility patterns emerged from mobile phone data with those emerged from GPS data.\n\nResearchers have been able to extract very detailed information about the people whose data are made available to public. This has sparked a great amount of concern about privacy issues. As an example of liabilities that might happen, New York City released 173 million individual taxi trips. City officials used a very weak cryptography algorithm to anonymize the license number and medallion number, which is an alphanumeric code assigned to each taxi cab. This made it possible for hackers to completely de-anonymize the dataset, and even some were able to extract detailed information about specific passengers and celebrities, including their origin and destination and how much they tipped.\n\nAt the large scale, when the behaviour is modelled over a period of relatively long duration (e.g. more than one day), human mobility can be described by three major components:\n\nBrockmann, by analysing banknotes, found that the probability of travel distance follows a scale-free random walk known as Lévy flight of form formula_4 where formula_5. This was later confirmed by two studies that used cell phone data and GPS data to track users. The implication of this model is that, as opposed to other more traditional forms of random walks such as brownian motion, human trips tend to be of mostly short distances with a few long distance ones. In brownian motion, the distribution of trip distances are govern by a bell-shaped curve, which means that the next trip is of a roughly predictable size, the average, where in Lévy flight it might be an order of magnitude larger than the average.\n\nSome people are inherently inclined to travel longer distances than the average, and the same is true for people with lesser urge for movement. Radius of gyration is used to capture just that and it indicates the characteristic distance travelled by a person during a time period t. Each user, within his radius of gyration formula_2, will choose his trip distance according to formula_1.\n\nThe third component models the fact that humans tend to visit some locations more often than what would have happened under a random scenario. For example, home or workplace or favorite restaurants are visited much more than many other places in a user's radius of gyration. It has been discovered that formula_8 where formula_9, which indicates a sublinear growth in different number of places visited by an individual .\nThese three measures capture the fact that most trips happen between a limited number of places, with less frequent travels to places outside of an individual's radius of gyration.\n\nAlthough the human mobility is modeled as a random process, it is surprisingly predictable. By measuring the entropy of each person's movement, it has been shown that there is a 93% potential predictability. This means that although there is a great variance in type of users and the distances that each of them travel, the overall characteristic of them is highly predictable. Implication of it is that in principle, it is possible to accurately model the processes that are dependent on human mobility patterns, such as disease or mobile virus spreading patterns.\n\nOn individual scale, daily human mobility can be explained by only 17 Network motifs. Each individual, shows one of these motifs characteristically, over a period of several months. This opens up the possibility to reproduce daily individual mobility using a tractable analytical model\n\nInfectious diseases spread across the globe usually because of long-distance travels of carriers of the disease. These long-distance travels are made using air transportation systems and it has been shown that \"network topology, traffic structure, and individual mobility patterns are all essential for accurate predictions of disease spreading\". On a smaller spatial scale the regularity of human movement patterns and its temporal structure should be taken into account in models of infectious disease spread. Cellphone viruses that are transmitted via bluetooth are greatly dependent on the human interaction and movements. With more people using similar operating systems for their cellphones, it's becoming much easier to have a virus epidemic.\n\nIn Transportation Planning, leveraging the characteristics of human movement, such as tendency to travel short distances with few but regular bursts of long-distance trips, novel improvements have been made to Trip distribution models, specifically to Gravity model of migration \n\n"}
{"id": "23448200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23448200", "title": "Jean-Marie-Joseph-Pantaléon Pelletier", "text": "Jean-Marie-Joseph-Pantaléon Pelletier\n\nJean-Marie-Joseph-Pantaléon Pelletier (July 27, 1860 – October 19, 1924) was a physician and political figure in Quebec. He represented Sherbrooke in the Legislative Assembly of Quebec from 1900 to 1911 as a Liberal. Francoeur was Speaker of the Legislative Assembly from 1909 to 1911.\n\nHe was born in Rivière-Ouelle, Quebec, the son of Joseph Pelletier and Henriette Martin. Pelletier was educated at the Collège de Sainte-Anne-de-la-Pocatière and the Université Laval. He qualified as a physician in 1887 and, after interning in New York City and Paris, set up practice in Sherbrooke. Pelletier was surgeon at the Hôpital Sacré-Cœur and also served as coroner for Saint-François district. In 1897, he was named to the Quebec Board of Health. He was a lieutenant in the militia and served during the North-West Rebellion, later reaching the rank of lieutenant-colonel. In 1888, he married Alice Hudon. Pelletier resigned his seat in the assembly in 1911 after he was named Quebec provincial representative in London. He died in Quebec City at the age of 64.\n\nHis uncle Charles Alphonse Pantaléon Pelletier served in the Canadian House of Commons and as Lieutenant-Governor of Quebec.\n"}
{"id": "43455727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43455727", "title": "Joan Robinson Hill", "text": "Joan Robinson Hill\n\nJoan Olive Robinson Hill (February 6, 1931 – March 19, 1969) was a socialite and equestrian from Houston, Texas. Her unexplained death at age 38 led to her husband, John Hill, becoming the first person to be indicted by the state of Texas on the charge of murder by omission. The case precipitated a series of events that included the 1972 murder of John Hill and, two years later, the fatal police shooting of the man accused of that murder. Adopted as an infant by wealthy oil tycoon Davis \"Ash\" Robinson and his wife, Rhea, Joan became an equestrian at a young age. She excelled and continued the sport into adulthood, ultimately winning several national titles.\n\nAfter two youthful marriages that ended in divorce, Joan married plastic surgeon John Hill in 1957. After a tumultuous marriage, she died following a short illness on March 19, 1969. Autopsy examinations failed to determine a cause of death beyond an infection from an unknown source. Ash subsequently accused John of poisoning Joan, and petitioned the district attorney to prosecute John for murder. John's murder trial was held in February 1971 but ended in a mistrial. As a second trial was approaching, John was gunned down by an intruder at his home. A suspect, Bobby Wayne Vandiver, was arrested and indicted for the murder, but was killed in a shootout with police before his trial. Two other suspects, Marcia McKittrick and Lilla Paulus, were convicted as accomplices to John's murder and served time in prison.\n\nThe case was the subject of Thomas Thompson's 1976 book \"Blood and Money\" and the 1981 made-for-television film \"Murder in Texas\".\n\nDavis Ashton \"Ash\" Robinson studied dentistry at Tulane College, New Orleans, but disliked the subject and chose not to follow it as a career. Instead, he embarked on a series of business ventures, making and losing several fortunes before becoming an oilman. He met Rhea Ernestine Gardere in New Orleans, and they married on July 28, 1919. After settling in Houston, the couple discovered that Rhea was unable to bear children, and Ash suggested that they should adopt a child instead. In March 1931, Rhea visited the Edna Gladney Home in Fort Worth where she was introduced to the one-month-old Joan Olive, who had been given up for adoption by her unmarried mother. The Robinsons adopted the baby girl.\n\nThe journalist Thomas Thompson writes that, as a child, Joan \"was as well attended as a czarina\". A keen horsewoman, she began riding at age three. At five, she won her first ribbon in equitation at the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo, coming in third on Dotty, an aging horse that her father had bought for her. It was the first of many contests she entered on Dotty in horse shows across the Southern United States. By the age of seven, she was regularly competing at an amateur level on three- and five-gaited horses, and she continued to achieve success, attaining first or second place in almost every contest she entered between 1938 and 1945.\n\nJoan attended Stephens College in Columbia, Missouri, where she was an average student with an active social life. Her father leased a suite of rooms at a hotel close to the campus, and installed his wife there, visiting on a regular basis himself. When Joan started acting in amateur college productions, she was approached by a talent scout working for Metro–Goldwyn–Mayer who offered her a screen test. Ash refused to permit her to take up the invitation, believing Hollywood to be full of predators who would take advantage of the girl. While in college, she married twice, both times before the age of 20. She married Spike Benton, who had a promising career as a Navy pilot, then New Orleans lawyer and childhood friend Cecil Burglass. Her father did not approve of her choices, and each marriage lasted little more than six months.\n\nJoan competed professionally throughout the 1950s and 1960s, winning as many as 500 trophies on her horses Beloved Belinda and Precious Possession. She had a riding habit made in the same color as Beloved Belinda, described by Thompson as \"a lustrous pearl gray\", which she wore at shows.\n\nOn September 28, 1957, Joan married Dr. John Hill, described by the \"Houston Chronicle\" as \"one of the city's leading plastic surgeons\".\nJohn Robert Hill (1931–1972) was the second of three children born to farmer Robert Raymond Hill, and his wife, Myra Hannah (Rice) Hill, of Edcouch, Texas. At their mother's insistence, all three Hill children received piano lessons, with John and Julian becoming gifted musicians. Hill studied a liberal arts course at Abilene Christian College, where he graduated summa cum laude; he then attended Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. After graduating, he took a residency in surgery at Houston's Hermann Hospital.\n\nDuring the 1950s, Houston-based surgeons such as Michael E. DeBakey and Denton Cooley were pioneering new heart surgery techniques, attracting a high volume of medical residents who wished to study under their tutelage. Realizing that the city would soon be awash with cardiac surgeons, Hill looked at alternative surgical careers, eventually opting for plastic surgery. At the time, only ten certified plastic surgeons were practicing in Houston, and Hill believed he could make more money in the profession. He was a popular member of the residency program, but almost had his medical career cut short after perforating a patient's bowel during a routine operation, then stitching the man up without repairing the damage. The patient later died of peritonitis, and Hill received a severe reprimand after an autopsy uncovered his mistake. Upon completing his residency, Hill was offered a partnership by Nathan Roth, a New York City-trained surgeon who had established himself in Houston, and he joined the practice in 1963. Hill's partnership with Roth got off to a difficult start after he failed to warn his first patient that a drill bit had broken off during a jaw repair operation, leaving it embedded in the patient's face. When challenged by Roth, Hill was apologetic about his error, saying he had been \"hesitant to mention this mistake on my very first case\". Hill's brother, Julian, had committed suicide shortly before the incident, and Roth gave Hill the benefit of the doubt because of this. The partnership between Hill and Roth was dissolved in 1967 after Roth grew tired of the other surgeon's repeated requests that Roth cover for him so that he could give music recitals. Hill then established his own practice in the same building as his former business partner.\n\nThe Hills became a regular part of Houston's social scene, but largely led separate lives. For the first six years of their marriage, they lived at Ash Robinson's property, moving from there only after a fellow surgeon suggested the idea to John. Joan continued to focus on her equestrian career, while John devoted his spare time to performing and listening to music. When Joan officially retired Beloved Belinda, the event made national headlines. \"Sports Illustrated\" reported that a band played \"Auld Lang Syne\" while Joan led Belinda, covered in a blanket of red roses, around the show ring at the Pin Oak horse show for the last time in 1959. A groom who was present commented to his wife that \"Abe Lincoln hisself didn't have a funeral as good as this one.\"\n\nOn June 14, 1960, the Hills had a son, whom they named Robert Ashton Hill, but who was quickly nicknamed Boot by his grandfather. Robinson then bought his daughter a farm after she told him of her ambition to breed horses and establish a riding school. The property, named Chatsworth Farm, was opened in 1963, and became the scene of an annual spring picnic for Houston's doctors and their families. In 1965, the Hills also bought a house at 1561 Kirby Drive, a Southern colonial-style house located in the wealthy suburb of River Oaks, a few blocks from the Robinsons' home.\n\nJohn Hill, whose interest in music began in childhood, was proficient on the piano as well as the trombone, tuba, flute, and recorder. As a young man, he aspired to become a piano player for a dance band, but his mother steered both sons toward medicine. Hill dedicated at least twenty hours a week to his interest in music–taking lessons, practicing, and participating in concerts. He was an active member of several groups, including the Houston Brass Quintet and the Heartbeats. Following the success of his own practice, he announced to Joan that he wished to convert a former servant's room into a \"music room\" at their house. Hill asked Ash Robinson to loan him $10,000 for the project, but Robinson refused as he believed it to be frivolous, and Hill already had a loan from him to buy the house.\n\nHill then arranged for a bank loan, enabling him to pay off the money Robinson had loaned the couple to buy the Kirby Drive house, then commissioned a sound engineer to create the music room, telling him \"I want the finest music room since Renaissance Italy.\" Its estimated $10,000 cost was quickly exceeded, and by October 1968, Hill had spent $75,000 on the venture. One of his ambitions was to own a handmade Bösendorfer piano, the world's most expensive. On hearing that a local firm had obtained the Austrian company's Houston franchise, he ordered an Imperial Grand for $15,000. The Bösendorfer was delivered in March 1969 and installed beside a Yamaha grand belonging to Joan. Having cost in excess of $100,000, in March 1969 John Hill's music room was almost complete.\n\nIt became a ballroom-sized room with a double-height ceiling full of Renaissance-type frescoes, with Baccarat crystal chandeliers. The carved marble fireplace was taken from an old Louisiana plantation home. Hill chose parquet flooring and a gold and white color scheme for the entire room. The pianos were placed at one end, with French provincial sofas cushioned by an oriental carpet at the other end. Gold and white silk wall panels concealed shelves for records, music-related books, and Hill's musical instruments. Hill had 108 speakers installed in the room, connected with four miles of wiring. He spent more than $20,000 on the room's sound system. Hill also added a hidden movie screen on which to project his collection of comedy films, which was also hidden behind one of the silk wall panels. The room became a bone of contention; Joan was angry about the amount of money her husband had poured into realizing his dream. During their 1968 separation, she had confided in Patti Gordon, a friend who owned a restaurant, that the music room had been central to their troubles. \"He doesn't care about me or our son or anybody else. Only that god damned music room. I wish we had never started building it.\"\n\nMeanwhile, Chatsworth Farm did not achieve the success that Joan had envisaged, and was not turning a profit. A trainer had worked there until 1967, but he left because he did not get on with Robinson, and by 1969 Robinson was considering selling the place. Joan wanted to keep it running, however, and persuaded Diane Settegast, a friend from Dallas, to take on the temporary role of trainer.\n\nBy 1968, the Hills had begun to have significant conflicts in their marriage. Hill had embarked on an extramarital affair with Ann Kurth, a thrice-divorced mother of three sons whom he met when they were both collecting their respective children from summer camp in August 1968. Kurth and Hill became romantically involved a short time after their meeting at the camp. When Joan returned from a horse show outside of Houston, she found a note from her husband saying that he had left because things were \"not good between us\". She phoned her husband's office many times in search of a better explanation from him; Hill did not return his wife's calls. Ash Robinson suggested the use of a private detective to learn what John Hill was up to; Joan was against this idea.\n\nTwo weeks after his leaving, Hill asked to meet with his wife for a talk. John Hill told his wife that he was having an affair, and that he was being blackmailed because of it. It was not long before Joan learned that the woman's name was Ann Kurth. Hill, who had been staying at Kurth's home, proceeded to rent a small apartment in Houston's Post Oak district.\n\nThe couple was still living apart in November 1968, when Hill had divorce papers served on his wife. Ash Robinson, who had hired detectives to investigate his son-in-law, learned of his Post Oak apartment from their report. Joan told her father that she still wanted to make her marriage work, despite her husband's infidelity, and contested the divorce.\n\nIn early December 1968, Ash Robinson phoned Hill at his Post Oak apartment, asking Hill to meet with him at the Robinson home. Robinson had drafted a letter of apology and a reconciliation offer to his daughter he wanted Hill to sign. Hill was in debt to Robinson for household and professional expenses, and his father-in-law implied that he would begin pressing for repayment if Hill did not return to his wife. Hill signed the letter written by Ash Robinson and prepared to go back to the Kirby Drive home. Hill withdrew his divorce petition when the couple reconciled shortly before Christmas of that year. Not long after his return, Kurth began pressing Hill, telling him that if he stayed with Joan, Kurth would no longer be a part of his life. He continued to see Kurth after returning to live with his wife.\n\nDiane Settegast and Eunice Woolen, who stayed with the Hills as house guests a week before Joan's death, would later describe how Hill brought home pastries, but insisted on choosing which ones each of them would eat. Hill would return home with the pastries in the evenings after being called away by a message on his pager. On Friday, March 14, the Hills attended Houston's annual wild game dinner, where John played a concert with the Heartbeats. They left early, and on the way home Joan asked her husband if he would be staying out all night again. When he said that he probably would, she reminded him that he had done this on two previous occasions that week. The conversation quickly descended into an argument in which she told him that if he did stay out, he should not bother to come back. When they arrived home, she got out of the car, and he began to drive away, at which point she became angry and shouted \"You've blown it, John! You've just lost your wife, your son and your god damn music room.\"\n\nShortly before the arrival of her house guests, Joan had learned that her husband was still maintaining his small apartment and still involved with Ann Kurth. On the day following the argument, Hill took his son for a haircut, and during the drive, they went to his apartment to pick up some things; the boy talked with his mother about it when he arrived home. Joan invited her friend and neighbor Vann Maxwell over to discuss the matter, and when she arrived, announced an impromptu game of bridge with Settegast and Woolen in the music room. John Hill was listening to music at one end of the room while the women played cards at the other. Joan began loudly discussing her husband, then slipping into silence whenever he approached. She told the women that she was planning to consult a lawyer on Monday, and Maxwell became uneasy with the situation. She asked Joan to be quiet or she would leave. Joan then started writing notes to her friend, in which she repeated her intention to speak to a lawyer, and to take John out of her will. After a tense evening, Hill put on a romantic record and came over to stand behind his wife's chair. Settegast suggested the couple should dance, and they did. Afterwards they retired to bed. The next morning, Joan told Settegast that Hill had made her \"very happy\" the previous night. \"He told me things I've never heard from the man before in our whole married life. I think it's going to be all right between us from now on.\"\n\nSettegast and Woolen recalled a conversation they had with Joan after she rose late on the afternoon of Saturday, March 15. She told them that \"John gave me some pill last night and it really knocked me out\". She spent most of the following day in bed after she vomited her breakfast. After checking on her several times, Hill told the two house guests that he was going out to purchase medication for her. Hill took his son and the two women out for dinner that evening, but Joan was too sick to join them. Hill bought her a carton of orange juice on the way home, then went to visit a friend. Joan continued to be ill, vomiting several more times. On Monday, March 17, Settegast and Woolen came to say goodbye to Joan, as they were returning to Dallas. Joan told the women she felt dehydrated and asked for some water. She told her friends she would be all right as they prepared to leave. Effie Green, the Hills' maid, was told that Mrs. Hill was sick in bed and was not to be disturbed for any reason.\n\nOn the morning of Tuesday, March 18, Effie went to check on Joan after the doctor had left for the day. She found Joan in a soiled nightgown; when she moved her to help her change into a fresh gown, Effie saw that Joan had been lying in dried feces. Two towels had been placed under her due to a recent loose bowel movement that appeared to contain blood. The maid did her best to help Joan into the bathroom to clean her. As she did this, Effie noticed that Joan's face began turning blue. The maid hurriedly cleaned up Joan and the soiled bed and called to her husband, who also worked for the Hills, to phone Mrs. Hill's parents' home at once. When there was no answer, Archie Green tried unsuccessfully to reach John Hill at his office and left a message. Rhea Robinson was unaware of Joan's condition when her husband dropped her off at the Hill home to visit her daughter.\n\nThe severity of Joan's illness was known only to those in the Hill household until the morning of March 18, 1969, when her mother entered her daughter's sickroom. She found Joan lying in her own body wastes and vomit as John Hill stood at the foot of his wife's bed. When Robinson found that her daughter had a fever, Hill told his mother-in-law he thought Joan should be taken to a hospital. Hill did not summon an ambulance for his wife, who was now semiconscious, but insisted on driving her to the hospital himself. The hospital he chose was not one of Houston's noted medical centers, but a new hospital in Houston's suburbs, Sharpstown General Hospital, which was a forty-five-minute drive from the Hill home. The hospital had no emergency room or intensive care unit at the time of Joan's admission. She was brought into the hospital by a nurse who had come to the car with a wheelchair and was taken to a private room on arrival.\n\nDuring the drive, Joan told her mother she was going blind; her husband referred to this as a \"blackout\". Upon arrival at Sharpstown General, Robinson Hill's blood pressure was 60/40; the hospital nurse promptly took a second reading, as she believed that she had made some sort of error. After determining that the reading was correct, the nurse believed Joan was in shock and placed a call to Dr. Walter Bertinot, who was named as his wife's attending physician by John Hill. Bertinot, who knew Joan only socially, had no reason to believe she was seriously ill until the call from the hospital nurse. Hill had described his wife's symptoms as nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea; Bertinot initially thought she was suffering from influenza. When Bertinot arrived in Joan's hospital room, she recognized him and made reference to a party which they had both attended. Bertinot ordered IV fluids, took another history, and now believed she had a case of foodborne illness.\n\nStill uneasy after his second diagnosis, Dr. Bertinot consulted a colleague, Dr. Frank Lanza, who believed Joan to be in septic shock. The doctors ordered blood cultures, which would take 72 hours to process. Joan had been a patient at Sharpstown General for six hours when her kidneys began to fail; she was not passing any urine and had edema. Her intravenous fluids were increased with the hope of being able to prompt her kidneys into producing urine. By 8 p.m., Joan Robinson Hill's kidneys had failed to respond and her condition was considered to be \"grave\". Dr. Bernard Hicks, a kidney specialist, was called in to consult. Dr. Hicks determined Joan was in severe kidney failure. Since Sharpstown General had no dialysis machine, the medical team debated about transferring Joan to Houston Methodist Hospital, where such equipment was available, but Dr. Hicks believed she was too ill to be transferred. The option for treating her at the hospital was to begin peritoneal dialysis. Dr. Hicks wanted the consent of John Hill before beginning this procedure and phoned him at the Kirby Drive home at 9:15 p.m. Hill left the house after taking the telephone call but did not arrive at Sharpstown General to give his consent until 11 p.m. His wife was conscious and begged him to stay with her, saying that she was frightened.\n\nDr. Bertinot checked on Joan at 12:30 a.m. on March 19. While she had not improved, she appeared to have stabilized. Her blood pressure had elevated slightly and she was responding to the peritoneal dialysis. Bertinot felt he could now leave the hospital to get some rest, but Dr. Lanza said he would stay a while longer and would call Dr. Bertinot if anything should change. John Hill also felt he could get some sleep and retired to a couch in a hospital records room. By 1:30 a.m., both Dr. Lanza and Dr. Hicks had left the hospital. Joan, who had been heavily sedated, was coherent at times. When Hill told her he would be down the hall if needed, she asked the nurse attending her to see that her husband was made comfortable there.\n\nAt 2:30 a.m. on March 19, the attending nurse noticed that Joan's vital signs indicated sudden heart failure. She ran to the room's doorway and shouted to the nurses' station to have the resident on duty come immediately with cardiac failure equipment. As she did this, Joan slightly raised her head, gasping her husband's name. As she tried to breathe, a flood of blood rushed from her mouth. The resident tried to save her by injecting adrenaline into her heart; but he was not successful.\n\nTexas state law at the time required an autopsy, before any embalming or burial could take place, for anyone who died in a hospital within twenty-four hours of admission. Dr. Bertinot spoke to John Hill about the legal need for an autopsy. Hill asked Jim Oates to call a local funeral home to claim Robinson Hill's body. Less than four hours after her death, the funeral home removed Robinson Hill's body from the hospital.\n\nWithin an hour after moving the body from Sharpstown General, the funeral home began the process of embalming Robinson Hill's body. The hospital's pathologist, Dr. Arthur Morse, arrived at the funeral home at 10 a.m. to carry out the autopsy, only to find that the body had already been embalmed. Morse concluded his autopsy at 11:30 a.m. without finding any signs of what caused Robinson Hill's death aside from a maroon coloration of her pancreas and offered an opinion that she may have died from pancreatitis.\n\nSince receiving Dr. Morse's opinion that his daughter had died from pancreatitis, Robinson had been consulting doctors on the matter, who had advised him that this was an unlikely cause of death. On the morning of Friday, March 21, the day of Joan Robinson Hill's funeral, Ash Robinson visited the office of Assistant District Attorney I. D. McMaster, where he accused John Hill of killing his wife, telling McMaster of the circumstances surrounding her death and autopsy. McMaster asked Harris County Medical Examiner Joseph Jachimczyk to go to the funeral home to examine the body before the funeral. Jachimczyk ordered Morse to hand over blood and urine specimens taken from Robinson Hill. He then drove to the funeral home to view the body.\n\nJachimczyk delivered his report on the second autopsy at the end of March, ruling out any poisoning, and concluding, \"it is my opinion based upon a reasonable probability that the cause of death is due to acute focal hepatitis, probably viral in origin.\" On reading the report, McMaster felt there was no case, but Robinson refused to believe that no crime had been committed. He hired lawyer Frank Briscoe, a former Harris County District Attorney. Robinson petitioned his son-in-law to give permission for Joan's body to be exhumed for another autopsy, but Hill refused.\n\nAsh Robinson then hired Dr. Milton Helpern, the chief medical examiner for New York City at the time, to come to Houston to examine Robinson Hill's body. An autopsy was also requested by a Harris County grand jury investigating Robinson Hill's death. That autopsy was performed by a team of ten doctors led by Dr. Robert Bucklin, who was then the medical examiner for Galveston County, and including Dr. Helpern, who was deputized as an acting Harris County medical examiner. Helpern examined the body of Joan Robinson Hill for seven and a half hours, then went back to New York with his tissue samples, saying he would issue a report on his findings at a later date.\n\nThe series of autopsies indicated that Robinson Hill had suffered a \"massive infection\" from an undetermined source, but because the body had been embalmed before an initial examination was conducted, an exact cause of death could not be identified. Dr. Bucklin listed Robinson Hill's cause of death as meningitis and septicemia. Following the autopsy, Joseph Jachimczyk issued a fresh report in which he observed \"It is now my opinion that Joan Robinson Hill came to her death as a result of a fulminating infectious process, the specific nature of which is no longer determinable.\" Dr. Helpern's report, issued in April 1970, noted that John Hill's treatment of his wife at home and the delay in seeking specialized medical attention at a hospital were factors in the death of Robinson Hill.\n\nAfter Robinson Hill's death, Hill married Ann Kurth in June 1969, but divorced Kurth less than a year later, shortly before he was indicted for the murder of Robinson Hill. Following Hill's marriage to Kurth, Ash Robinson accused his former son-in-law of poisoning his daughter, and petitioned the District Attorney to launch a murder investigation. A grand jury began hearing evidence in the summer of 1969, and retired without indicting Hill. District Attorney Carol Vance then put the case before a second grand jury, which ordered an exhumation of the body.\n\nIn February 1970, the case was heard by a third grand jury. This panel heard testimony from Ann Kurth, who told them that Hill had confessed to killing his wife and had also tried to kill Kurth on three occasions. Helpern presented his findings to the grand jury in April 1970. McMaster and his fellow Assistant District Attorney, Ernie Ernst, believed that Hill had murdered his wife but that there was not enough evidence to indict him. Ernst suggested that they could try him for failing to provide an adequate level of care, which had resulted in her death. The jury voted 10–2 to indict Hill for murder by omission, deciding that he had \"willfully, intentionally and culpably\" contributed to his wife's death because he had not given her sufficient medical help. The state of Texas had not previously indicted anyone on a charge of murder by omission.\n\nHill's murder trial began on February 15, 1971. Kurth testified against Hill, claiming that he had tried to kill her on June 30, 1969, by crashing their car into a bridge, and by injecting her with a hypodermic syringe. She also told the court that he had confessed to killing Robinson Hill, explaining in detail how he had allegedly done it by lacing pastries with infectious bacteria and later injecting Robinson Hill with the same bacteria. As a result of Kurth's testimony, Hill's attorney was granted a request for a mistrial. Hill's second trial was eventually scheduled for November 1972.\n\nOn September 24, 1972, a few weeks before the second trial was to start, Hill was shot dead by a masked gunman during a robbery at his mansion as Hill and his third wife, Connie, returned home from a medical conference in Las Vegas.\n\nBobby Wayne Vandiver was arrested for Hill's murder in April 1973, but refused to cooperate with police until he was positively identified as the perpetrator by Hill's mother. When he confessed to the murder, he told police that he had done it for financial gain, and that the shooting was a contract killing that he had been asked to carry out for $5,000. During his confession, Vandiver implicated Marcia McKittrick and Lilla Paulus as having been accessories to Hill's murder.\n\nOn April 25, 1973, a grand jury voted to indict Vandiver and McKittrick for first degree murder, and indict Paulus as an accomplice to murder. Vandiver's trial was set for September 1973. The trial was eventually rescheduled for April 1974, but Vandiver failed to appear. He had moved to Longview, Texas, adopting an alias. Longview police officer John Raymer grew suspicious of the newcomer to his town. After discovering the man's first name was actually Bobby, Raymer confronted Vandiver at a cafe one evening in May; Vandiver pulled a gun, and Raymer shot him dead.\n\nUnder questioning, McKittrick corroborated Vandiver's story. McKittrick was tried and convicted in 1974 of being Vandiver's getaway driver and given a ten-year jail sentence. She was paroled after serving five years.\n\nLilla Paulus was convicted and given a 35-year sentence. She died of breast cancer at the Gatesville prison on May 16, 1986.\n\nThe events surrounding the death of Joan Robinson Hill have been the subject of several books, as well as a 1981 television film. Journalist and author Thomas Thompson's 1976 book \"Blood and Money\" provides a detailed account of the case. He became interested in the story while shadowing doctors in Houston as research for a previous book, \"Hearts\", about the world of cardiac surgery. Ann Kurth filed a $3-million lawsuit against Thompson over his description of her as a \"provocatively dressed, heavily made-up woman\", but her action was dismissed by a jury in Austin in March 1981, which decided that although derogatory, his description of her was accurate. The legal case was one of three Thompson faced over his book.\n\nKurth published her own account of the case entitled \"Prescription Murder\" in which she repeated her claim that Hill had tried to kill her, and alleged that he may have poisoned his first wife with bacteria-laced pastries. She also suggested that Hill had not been killed in 1972, and had instead moved to Mexico after faking his death. Retired Harris County District Attorney Carol Vance also discussed the case in his memoirs, \"Boomtown DA\".\n\nIn 1981, the Robinson Hill case was the subject of \"Murder in Texas\", a television film featuring Farrah Fawcett as Robinson Hill. It concurs with Kurth's theory that Hill may have faked his death, suggesting that he arranged for someone else to be killed in his place. The journalist Jerry Buck noted in an article preceding the film's debut on NBC that the face of the shooting victim had been battered and that there were anomalies in the autopsy report, notably that Hill had a different eye color from that recorded for the dead person. Buck also wrote that Hill was in financial difficulties with the Internal Revenue Service in 1972 and facing a murder case against him. Sightings of Hill had also been reported in Mexico and New York City.\n\nThe death of Robinson Hill was also the subject of a true crime television documentary-drama as part of the series \"Behind Mansion Walls\" from the Investigation Discovery television network \"Behind Mansion Walls: The Thoroughbred Heiress\" S1 E13; first aired in June 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "58415217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58415217", "title": "Kathleen Marshall (veterinarian)", "text": "Kathleen Marshall (veterinarian)\n\nKathleen Marshall (1946-1998) was an Australian veterinarian, whose murder led to an extensive police investigation.\n\nKathleen Marshall (born Kathleen Lambourne) was born in Brisbane, Queensland in 1946. She enrolled in veterinary science at the University of Queensland, graduating with a BVSc (with Honours) in 1968.\n\nLambourne began work as a veterinarian. She opened her own veterinary surgery in the Brisbane suburb of Wilston.\n\nMarshall was a member of a number of charities committed to preventing animal cruelty. She became President of the Cat Protection Society of Queensland in 1996.\n\nMarshall was found dead in the veterinary surgery beneath her home in Wilston in March 1998. Following an investigation, Andrew Fitzherbert was prosecuted for her death based on DNA evidence. This conviction was later overturned.\n\nIn 2002, the University of Queensland named a new building at the St Lucia campus for her, the Kathleen Lambourne building.\n\nMarshall’s murder and the subsequent prosecution, has been the subject of a television Forensic investigators: Australia's true crimes episode (2004). The book, Five drops of blood, analysed the DNA evidence which was used to convict Andrew Fitzherbert of her death.\n"}
{"id": "6716334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6716334", "title": "Kim Aabech", "text": "Kim Aabech\n\nKim Aabech (born 31 May 1983 in Birkholm) is a Danish footballer who plays for Hvidovre IF. His father is former Danish international Hans Aabech.\n\nPreviously he played nine years for Lyngby Boldklub, and one year at FC Nordsjælland. He scored his first Danish Superliga goal on 29 July 2007 against FC Nordsjælland. In August 2014 he left FC Nordsjælland, and joined AGF on a one-year contract.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1775494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1775494", "title": "Kitsuno", "text": "Kitsuno\n\nBefore Kitsuno became Oda Nobunaga's concubine, she was first wed to Yaheji Dota who died in the battle of Akechi. After the loss of her husband, Kitsuno returned to her family's home, Ikoma mansion. It was there that she met Oda Nobunaga.\n\nIt was believed that Oda Nobunaga was charmed by Kitsuno's beauty at first sight, and immediately took her as his concubine. Nobunaga was officially married to Lady Nō, the daughter of Saitō Dōsan, but it was believed that theirs was not a happy marriage, especially since Nōhime could not conceive. It is often thought that Kitsuno was Nobunaga's most beloved concubine and that she probably had a higher position than Nōhime.\n\nIn 1557 Kitsuno gave birth to Nobutada and later Nobukatsu and Tokuhime (Lady Toku). In 1564, Kitsuno moved to Kori Castle (in present-day Kōnan, Aichi). She suffered due to the difficulty of her childbirths, and in 1566 she died at the age of 29.\n\nEven though Nobunaga is often regarded as a callous and bellicose figure, it is said that Nobunaga mourned her throughout the night and had her buried within view of his castle.\n\nHer body was cremated and buried in the cemetery at Kyusho temple (the Ikoma family temple), in Tashiro town. Nobunaga gave his son Nobukatsu the area in which Kyusho temple lies in order to protect it and Kitsuno's tomb, out of respect for his treasured concubine.\n"}
{"id": "685809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=685809", "title": "Lateral medullary syndrome", "text": "Lateral medullary syndrome\n\nLateral medullary syndrome is a neurological disorder causing a range of symptoms due to ischemia in the lateral part of the medulla oblongata in the brainstem. The ischemia is a result of a blockage in the posterior inferior cerebellar artery or one of its branches. Lateral medullary syndrome is also called Wallenberg syndrome, posterior inferior cerebellar artery syndrome, PICA syndrome, vertebral artery syndrome, and Wallenberg's syndrome. \n\nThis syndrome is characterized by sensory deficits that affect the trunk and extremities contralaterally (opposite to the lesion), and sensory deficits of the face and cranial nerves ipsilaterally (same side as the lesion). Specifically a loss of pain and temperature sensation if the lateral spinothalamic tract is involved. The cross body finding is the chief symptom from which a diagnosis can be made.\n\nPatients often have difficulty walking or maintaining balance (ataxia), or difference in temperature of an object based on which side of the body the object of varying temperature is touching. Some patients may walk with a slant or suffer from skew deviation and illusions of room tilt. The nystagmus is commonly associated with vertigo spells. These vertigo spells can result in falling, caused from the involvement of the region of Deiters’ nucleus.\n\nCommon symptoms with lateral medullary syndrome may include difficulty swallowing, or dysphagia. This can be caused by the involvement of the nucleus , as it supplies the vagus and glossopharyngeal nerves. Slurred speech (dysarthria), and disordered vocal quality (dysphonia) are also common. The damage to the cerebellum or the inferior cerebellar peduncle can cause ataxia. Damage to the hypothalamospinal fibers disrupts sympathetic nervous system relay and gives symptoms that are similar to the symptoms caused by Horner syndrome – such as miosis, anhidrosis and partial ptosis.\n\nPalatal myoclonus, the twitching of the muscles of the mouth, may be observed due to disruption of the central tegmental tract. Other symptoms include: hoarseness, nausea, vomiting, a decrease in sweating, problems with body temperature sensation, dizziness, difficulty walking, and difficulty maintaining balance. Lateral medullary syndrome can also cause bradycardia, a slow heart rate, and increases or decreases in the patients average blood pressure. \n\nIt is the clinical manifestation resulting from occlusion of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) or one of its branches or of the vertebral artery, in which the lateral part of the medulla oblongata infarcts, resulting in a typical pattern. The most commonly affected artery is the vertebral artery, followed by the PICA, superior middle and inferior medullary arteries.\n\nSince lateral medullary syndrome is often caused by a stroke, diagnosis is time dependent. Diagnosis is usually done by assessing vestibular-related symptoms in order to determine where in the medulla that the infarction has occurred. Head Impulsive Nystagmus Test of Skew (HINTS) examination of oculomotor function is often performed, along with computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to assist in stroke detection. Standard stroke assessment must be done to rule out a concussion or other head trauma.\n\nTreatment for lateral medullary syndrome is dependent on how quickly is it identified. Treatment for lateral medullary syndrome involves focusing on relief of symptoms and active rehabilitation to help patients return to their daily activities. Many patients undergo speech therapy. Depressed mood and withdrawal from society can be seen in patients following the initial onslaught of symptoms.\n\nIn more severe cases, a feeding tube may need to be inserted through the mouth or a gastrostomy may be necessary if swallowing is impaired. In some cases, medication may be used to reduce or eliminate residual pain. Some studies have reported success in mitigating the chronic neuropathic pain associated with the syndrome with anti-epileptics such as gabapentin. Long term treatment generally involves the use of antiplatelets like aspirin or clopidogrel and statin regimen for the rest of their lives in order to minimize the risk of another stroke. Warfarin is used if atrial fibrillation is present. Other medications may be necessary in order to suppress high blood pressure and risk factors associated with strokes. A blood thinner may be prescribed to a patient in order to break up the infarction and reestablish blood flow and to try to prevent future infarctions. \n\nOne of the most unusual and difficult to treat symptoms that occur due to Wallenberg syndrome are interminable, violent hiccups. The hiccups can be so severe that patients often struggle to eat, sleep and carry on conversations. Depending on the severity of the blockage caused by the stroke, the hiccups can last for weeks. Unfortunately there are very few successful medications available to mediate the inconvenience of constant hiccups.\n\nFor dysphagia symptoms, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation has been shown to assist in rehabilitation. Overall, traditional stroke assessment and outcomes are used to treat patients, since lateral medullary syndrome is often caused by a stroke in the lateral medulla. \n\nTreatment for this disorder can be disconcerting because some individuals will always have residual symptoms due to the severity of the blockage as well as the location of the infarction. Two patients may present with the same initial symptoms right after the stroke has occurred, but after several months one patient may fully recover while the other is still severely handicapped. This variation in outcome may be due to but not limited to the size of the infarction, the location of the infarction, and how much damage resulted from it.\n\nThe outlook for someone with lateral medullary syndrome depends upon the size and location of the area of the brain stem damaged by the stroke. Some individuals may see a decrease in their symptoms within weeks or months. Others may be left with significant neurological disabilities for years after the initial symptoms appeared. However, more than 85% of patients have seen minimal symptoms present at six months from the time of the original stroke, and have been able to independently accomplish average daily within a year. \n\nThose at the overall highest risk for lateral medullary syndrome are men at an average age of 55.06. Having a history of hypertension, diabetes and smoking all increase the risk of large artery atherosclerosis. Large artery atherosclerosis is thought to be the greatest risk factor for lateral medullary syndrome due to the deposits of cholesterol, fatty substances, cellular waste products, calcium and fibrin. Otherwise known as plaque build up in the arteries. \n\nThe earliest description of lateral medullary syndrome was first written by Gaspard Vieusseux at the Medical and Chirurgical Society of London describing the symptoms observed at the time. Adolf Wallenberg further reinforced these signs after completing his first case report in 1895. He was able to make an accurate localization of the lesion and soon after proved it following a postmortem examination. Wallenberg accomplished three more published articles about lateral medullary syndrome. \n\nAdolf Wallenberg was a renowned neurologist and neuroanatomist most widely known for his clinical descriptions of Lateral Medullary Syndrome. He completed his doctorate at University of Leipzig in 1886. By 1928 he had spent 2 years (1886-1888) as an assistant at the city hospital in Danzig, 21 years (1907-1928) as the director of internal and psychiatric departments and 18 years (1910-1928) as a titular professor. In 1929, Wallenberg received the Erb Commemorative Medal for his work in the field of anatomy, physiology and pathology of the nervous system. \n\nWallenberg's first patient in 1885 was a 38-year-old male suffering from symptoms of vertigo, hypoesthesia, loss of pain and temperature sensitivity, paralysis of multiple locations, ataxia and more. His background in neuroanatomy helped him in correctly locating the patient's lesion to the lateral medulla and connected it to a blockage of the ipsilateral posterior inferior cerebral artery. After the death of his patient in 1899, he was able to prove his findings after a postmortem examination. He continued his work with many patients and by 1922 he had reported his 15th patient with clinicopathological correlations. In 1938, Adolf Wallenberg was forced to end his career as a physician by the German occupation. When the Nazis came to power, he was stripped of his research laboratory and forced to stop working because he was Jewish. He emigrated to Great Britain in 1938, then relocated to the United States in 1943.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39491104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39491104", "title": "Like a Virgin (book)", "text": "Like a Virgin (book)\n\nLike a Virgin: How Science Is Redesigning the Rules of Sex is a book by the former cancer genetics researcher Aarathi Prasad exploring virgin birth through the whiptail lizard, the stingless wasp, the electric ant and the Beltsville small white turkey. Prasad also explores the possibilities of virgin birth in humans and touches on ovarian teratomas.\n\nThe book also takes a historical look of sexless reproduction and ancient stories of virgin birth.\n\n"}
{"id": "53605001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53605001", "title": "List of resurrected species", "text": "List of resurrected species\n\nThis is a list of resurrected species. So far, there is no scientifically verified method of DNA resurrection of a previously dead species.\n\n\"Note: When it comes to selective breeding, the animals are not truly genetic clones, but share many similarities with the extinct animal they are supposed to look like.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13676799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13676799", "title": "Lois Roberts", "text": "Lois Roberts\n\nLois Martha Roberts (c. 1960 – c. July 1998) was an Australian murder victim, whose death in 1998 remains unsolved.\n\nRoberts was the daughter of Pastor Frank Roberts, a minister with the Church of Christ and an Aboriginal activist, and Muriel Roberts. She was the twin sister of the arts administrator and broadcaster Rhoda Roberts, and the sister of Philip and Mark. Brought up and educated in the Lismore region in northern New South Wales, Roberts trained as a hairdresser until, at age 20, she was seriously injured in a car accident sustaining permanent brain damage. She was rehabilitated sufficiently to care for herself and went to live on her own near Lismore. Subsequently, she had two children who were raised by her mother and twin sister.\n\nRoberts was last seen outside Nimbin Police Station on 31 July 1998. It would appear that she was abducted whilst hitch-hiking between Nimbin and Lismore and then tortured and abused before being killed. Her badly mutilated body was found about six months after her disappearance in January 1999. A bushwalker found the remains in Whian Whian State Forest, near Dunoon, deep in thick bush some way off a fire trail.\n\nThe perpetrator or perpetrators of the crime have never been identified. An inquest was held in June 2002. The senior stipendiary magistrate of the Lismore Court Circuit, Jeff Linden, sitting as a coroner returned an open finding after a two-week hearing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3181120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3181120", "title": "Missional living", "text": "Missional living\n\nIn Christianity, missional living is the adoption of the posture, thinking, behaviors, and practices of a missionary in order to engage others with the gospel message. The missional church movement, a church renewal movement predicated on the necessity of missional living by Christians, gained popularity at the end of the twentieth century due to advocates like Tim Keller and others in the Gospel and Our Culture Network. Advocates contrast missional living with the concept of a select group of \"professional\" missionaries, emphasizing that all Christians should be involved in the Great Commission of Jesus Christ.\n\nThe missional living concept is rooted in the \"Missio dei\" (Latin, \"the sending of God\"). In 1934, Karl Hartenstein, a German missiologist, coined the phrase in response to Karl Barth and his emphasis on \"actio Dei\" (\"the action of God\"). In their view, missional activities stemming from God. The Triune God is the primary acting agent in the world and within the church.\n\nAccording to Lesslie Newbigin and Jesus' statements in the Gospel according to John, every Christian has been sent by Jesus with the gospel together in community to those in the surrounding culture for the sake of the King and His kingdom: “The Church is sent into the world to continue that which he came to do, in the power of the same Spirit, reconciling people to God.” Jesus said, “As the Father has sent Me, I am sending you” (John 20:21).\n\n\"No one can say: ‘Since I’m not called to be a missionary, I do not have to evangelize my friends and neighbors.’ There is no difference, in spiritual terms, between a missionary witnessing in his home town and a missionary witnessing in Katmandu, Nepal. We are all called to go—even if it is only to the next room, or the next block.”\"\n\"Missional living\" is the embodiment of the mission of Jesus in the world by incarnating the gospel. \"It is imperative that Christians be like Jesus, by living freely within the culture as missionaries who are as faithful to the Father and his gospel as Jesus was in his own time and place.\" This embodiment of the gospel is often referred to as \"contextualization\" or \"inculturation.\"\n\n\"Both refer to more than a simple translation of the gospel into different languages and cultures in the way that one translates a history book or a science text. Rather, they point to the embodiment of the living Word in human culture and social settings in such a way that its divine nature and power are not lost. True contextualization is more than communication. It is God working in the hearts of people, making them new and forming them into a new community. It is his Word transforming their lives, their societies, their cultures.\"\nThese five biblical distinctives form the foundation of a missional perspective:\n\n\nJesus sent His disciples on a mission. The missional church defines itself in terms of its mission—being sent ones who take the gospel to and incarnate the gospel within a specific culture. \n\"Jesus was the first apostle. He was sent by his Father. He, in turn, sent the Twelve. They went to people who would then take the gospel to the rest of the world. Whoever received it would understand that they, too, had been sent. With the gospel being what it is, the church as bearer of the gospel is bound to be apostolic.\"\nJesus Christ said that He came to earth to seek and to save that which was lost (Luke 19:10). He accomplished salvation through the cross. By dying on the cross, He paid the penalty for sin and satisfied God’s wrath. According to Scripture, without the cross, there is no salvation, no forgiveness, and no hope; because of the cross, there is eternal life. The mission and message of Jesus surround the cross. “For the word of the cross is to those who are perishing foolishness, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God” (1 Cor 1:18).\n\nJesus loves the Church and He gave His life to redeem the Church. Community exists for Mission! Christians are to bring the gospel \"together\" to the culture. \"The church is called to \"do\" the work of Christ, to be the means of his \"action\" in and for the world...Mission, in its widest as well as its more focused senses, is what the church is there for. God intends to put the world to rights; he has dramatically launched this project through Jesus. Those who belong to Jesus are called, here and now, in the power of the Spirit, to be agents of that putting-to-rights purpose.\"\n\nGeorge Peters notes, “If man is to be reached, he must be reached within his own culture.” This principle is observed when God became a man in the form of Jesus to come to earth and incarnate the gospel. As missionaries sent by Jesus, every Christian must learn to exegete their surrounding culture, uncovering the language, values, and ideas of the culture. Using this information, they take steps to reach people with the gospel message in the context of the surrounding culture.\n\nThe kingdom was central to Jesus’ message and mission. The Book of Acts ends with Paul, under house arrest in Rome, “proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance” (Acts 28:31). Christians are sent to proclaim the gospel of the kingdom so that others may enter the kingdom.\nGeorge Hunsberger conveys the idea that the Church is pointing beyond itself to the kingdom of God. The Church is not an end in itself; God has a mission that goes beyond the Church which includes the kingdom. The kingdom and the Church must never be divorced, yet they also must never be equated. In a similar way, “the reign must never be separated from the One who reigns.” The kingdom is always at the heart of the King.\n\nThe missional church movement first arose during the end of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century. The movement seeks to rethink and redefine the nature of the church and create a new paradigm in which churches are seen as missional in nature, instead of attractional in nature. Leaders in the movement argue that instead of churches attempting to attract people to churches through church programs, churches should instead take the gospel outside of the church and engage society with the gospel, often by being involved not only in missions and evangelism but also in social justice movements. The missional church defines itself in terms of its mission — being \"sent ones\" who take the gospel to and incarnate the gospel within a specific cultural context. The church exists, in other words, for what we sometimes call \"mission\": to announce to the world that Jesus is its Lord.\n\"Mission is not just a program of the church. It defines the church as God’s sent people. Either we are defined by mission, or we reduce the scope of the gospel and the mandate of the church. Thus our challenge today is to move from church with mission to missional church.\"\n\nThe Church has a mission because Jesus has a mission. There is one mission.\n\n\"Missional church is a community of God’s people that defines itself, and organizes its life around, its real purpose of being an agent of God’s mission to the world. In other words, the church’s true and authentic organizing principle is mission. When the church is in mission, it is the true church. The church itself is not only a product of that mission but is obligated and destined to extend it by whatever means possible. The mission of God flows directly through every believer and every community of faith that adheres to Jesus. To obstruct this is to block God’s purposes in and through his people.\"\nMissional living is a term that is used in contrast with historical institutional churches. Church leaders as well as Christians in general have often regarded the Church as an institution to which outsiders must come in order to receive a certain product, namely, the gospel and all its associated benefits. Institutional churches are sometimes perceived to exist for the members and depend on pastors and staff to evangelize the lost. The \"missional church\", on the other hand, attempts to take Christ to \"the lost\" and its members are personally engaged in reaching their communities with the message of Jesus Christ.\n\n\nTheological and Philosophical Background\nPractical Implications\n\n"}
{"id": "30210829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30210829", "title": "Object-oriented ontology", "text": "Object-oriented ontology\n\nIn metaphysics, object-oriented ontology (OOO) is a 21st-century Heidegger-influenced school of thought that rejects the privileging of human existence over the existence of nonhuman objects. This is in contrast to what it calls the \"anthropocentrism\" of Kant's Copernican Revolution, as accepted by most other current metaphysics, in which phenomenal objects are said to conform to the mind of the subject and, in turn, become products of human cognition. Object-oriented ontology maintains that objects exist independently (as Kantian noumena) of human perception and are not ontologically exhausted by their relations with humans or other objects. Thus, for object-oriented ontologists, all relations, including those between nonhumans, distort their related objects in the same basic manner as human consciousness and exist on an equal footing with one another.\n\nObject-oriented ontology is often viewed as a subset of speculative realism, a contemporary school of thought that criticizes the post-Kantian reduction of philosophical enquiry to a correlation between thought and being, such that the reality of anything outside of this correlation is unknowable. Object-oriented ontology predates speculative realism, however, and makes distinct claims about the nature and equality of object relations to which not all speculative realists agree. The term \"object-oriented philosophy\" was coined by Graham Harman, the movement's founder, in his 1999 doctoral dissertation \"Tool-Being: Elements in a Theory of Objects\". In 2009, Levi Bryant rephrased Harman's original designation as \"object-oriented ontology\", giving the movement its current name.\n\nThe term \"object-oriented philosophy” was coined by speculative philosopher Graham Harman in his 1999 doctoral dissertation \"Tool-Being: Elements in a Theory of Objects\" (later revised and published as \"Tool-Being: Heidegger and the Metaphysics of Objects\"). For Harman, Heideggerian \"Zuhandenheit\", or readiness-to-hand, refers to the withdrawal of objects from human perception into a reality that cannot be manifested by practical or theoretical action. Furthering this idea, Harman contends that when objects withdraw in this way, they distance themselves from other objects, as well as humans. Resisting pragmatic interpretations of Heidegger's thought, then, Harman is able to propose an object-oriented account of metaphysical substances. Following the publication of Harman's early work, several scholars from varying fields began employing object-oriented principles in their own work. Levi Bryant began what he describes as \"a very intense philosophical email exchange\" with Harman, over the course of which Bryant became convinced of the credibility of object-oriented thought. Bryant subsequently coined the term \"object-oriented ontology\" in 2009 to distinguish those ontologies committed to an account of being composed of discrete beings from Harman's object-oriented philosophy, thus marking a difference between object-oriented philosophy (OOP) and object-oriented ontology (OOO).\n\nWhile object-oriented philosophers reach different conclusions, they share common precepts, including a critique of anthropocentrism and correlationism and a rejection of \"preservation of finitude\", \"withdrawal\", and philosophies that undermine or \"overmine\" objects.\n\nAnthropocentrism is the privileging of humans as \"subjects\" over and against nonhuman beings as \"objects\". The widespread tendency frequently limits attributes such as mind, autonomy, moral agency, reason, and the like to humans, while contrasting all other beings as variations of \"object\", or things obeying deterministic laws, impulses, stimuli, instincts, and so on. Beginning with Kant's epistemology, modern philosophers began articulating a \"transcendent\" anthropocentrism, whereby the Kantian argument that objects are unknowable outside of the imposed, distorting categories of the human mind in turn shores up discourses wherein objects frequently become effectively reduced to mere products of human cognition. In contrast to Kant's view, object-oriented philosophers maintain that objects exist independently of human perception, and that nonhuman object relations distort their related objects in the same fundamental manner as human consciousness. Thus, all object relations, human and nonhuman, are said to exist on equal ontological footing with one another.\n\nRelated to 'anthropocentrism', object-oriented thinkers reject correlationism, which the French philosopher Quentin Meillassoux defines as \"the idea according to which we only ever have access to the correlation between thinking and being, and never to either term considered apart from the other\". Because object-oriented ontology is the realist philosophy, it stands in contradistinction to the anti-realist trajectory of correlationism, which restricts philosophical understanding to the correlation of being with thought by disavowing any reality external to this correlation as inaccessible, and, in this way, fails to escape the ontological reification of human experience.\n\nObject-oriented thought holds that there are two principal strategies for devaluing the philosophical import of objects. First, one can undermine objects by claiming that they are an effect or manifestation of a deeper, underlying substance or force. Second, one can \"overmine\" objects by either an idealism which holds that there is nothing beneath what appears in the mind or, as in social constructionism, by positing no independent reality outside of language, discourse or power. Object-oriented philosophy rejects both undermining and \"overmining\".\n\nUnlike other speculative realisms, object-oriented ontology maintains the concept of finitude, whereby relation to an object cannot be translated into direct and complete knowledge of an object. Since all object relations distort their related objects, every relation is said to be an act of translation, with the caveat that no object can perfectly translate another object into its own nomenclature. Object-oriented ontology does not restrict finitude to humanity, however, but extends it to all objects as an inherent limitation of relationality.\n\nObject-oriented ontology holds that objects are independent not only of other objects, but also from the qualities they animate at any specific spatiotemporal location. Accordingly, objects cannot be exhausted by their relations with humans or other objects in theory or practice, meaning that the reality of objects is always present-at-hand. The retention by an object of a reality in excess of any relation is known as \"withdrawal\".\n\nIn \"Tool-Being: Heidegger and the Metaphysics of Objects\", Graham Harman interprets the tool-analysis contained in Martin Heidegger's \"Being and Time\" as inaugurating an ontology of objects themselves, rather than the valorization of practical action or networks of signification. According to Harman, Heideggerian \"Zuhandenheit\", or readiness-to-hand, indicates the withdrawal of objects from both practical and theoretical action, such that objectcal reality cannot be exhausted by either practical usage or theoretical investigation. Harman further contends that objects withdraw not just from human interaction, but also from other objects. He maintains:\n\nFrom this, Harman concludes that the primary site of ontological investigation is objects and relations, instead of the post-Kantian emphasis on the human-world correlate. Moreover, this holds true for all entities, be they human, nonhuman, natural, or artificial, leading to the downplayment of \"dasein\" as an ontological priority. In its place, Harman proposes a concept of substances that are irreducible to both material particles and human perception, and \"exceed every relation into which they might enter\".\n\nCoupling Heidegger's tool-analysis with the phenomenological insights of Edmund Husserl, Harman introduces two types of objects: \"real objects\" and \"sensual objects\". Real objects are objects that withdraw from all experience, whereas sensual objects are those that exist only in experience. Additionally, Harman suggests two kinds of qualities: \"sensual qualities\", or those found in experience, and \"real qualities\", which are accessed through intellectual probing. Pairing sensual and real objects and qualities yields the following framework:\n\n\nTo explain how withdrawn objects make contact with and relate to one another, Harman submits the theory of \"vicarious causation\", whereby two hypothetical entities meet in the interior of a third entity, existing side-by-side until something occurs to prompt interaction. Harman compares this idea to the classical notion of formal causation, in which forms do not directly touch, but influence one another in a common space \"from which all are partly absent\". Causation, says Harman, is always vicarious, asymmetrical, and buffered:\n\nThus, causation entails the connection between a real object residing within the directionality of consciousness, or a unified \"intention,\" with another real object residing outside of the intention, where the intention itself is also classified as a real object. From here, Harman extrapolates five types of relations between objects. \"Containment\" describes a relation in which the intention \"contains\" both the real object and sensual object. \"Contiguity\" connotes relations between sensual objects lying side-by-side within an intention, not affecting one another, such that a sensual object's bystanders can be rearranged without disrupting the object's identity. \"Sincerity\" characterizes the absorption of a real object by a sensual object, in a manner that \"takes seriously\" the sensual object without containing or being contiguous to it. \"Connection\" conveys the vicarious generation of intention by real objects indirectly encountering one another. Finally, \"no relation\" represents the typical condition of reality, since real objects are incapable of direct interaction and are limited in their causal influence upon and relation to other objects.\n\nSince its inception by Graham Harman in 1999, many authors in a variety of disciplines have adapted and expanded upon Harman's ideas.\n\nLike Harman, Levi Bryant opposes post-Kantian anthropocentrism and philosophies of access. From Bryant's perspective, the Kantian contention that reality is accessible to human knowledge because it is structured by human cognition limits philosophy to a self-reflexive analysis of the mechanisms and institutions through which cognition structures reality. He states:\n\nTo counter the form of post-Kantian epistemology, Bryant articulates an object-oriented philosophy called onticology, grounded in three principles. First, the \"Ontic Principle\" states that \"there is no difference that does not make a difference\". Following from the premises that questions of difference precede epistemological interrogation and that to be is to create differences, this principle posits that knowledge cannot be fixed prior to engagement with difference. And so, for Bryant, the thesis that there is a thing-in-itself which we cannot know is untenable because it presupposes forms of being that make no differences. Similarly, concepts of difference predicated upon negation—that which objects are not or lack when placed in comparison with one another—are dismissed as arising only from the perspective of consciousness, rather than an ontological difference that affirms independent being. Second, the \"Principle of the Inhuman\" asserts that the concept of difference producing difference is not restricted to human, sociocultural, or epistemological domains, thereby marking the being of difference as independent of knowledge and consciousness. Humans exist as difference-making beings among other difference-making beings, therefore, without holding any special position with respect to other differences. Third, the \"Ontological Principle\" maintains that if there is no difference that does not also make a difference, then the making of difference is the minimal condition for the existence of being. In Bryant's words, \"if a difference is made, then the being is\". Bryant further contends that differences produced by an object can be \"inter-ontic\" (made with respect to another object) or \"intra-ontic\" (pertaining the internal constitution of the object).\n\nOnticology distinguishes between four different types of objects: bright objects, dim objects, dark objects, and rogue objects. \"Bright objects\" are objects that strongly manifest themselves and heavily impact other objects, such as the ubiquity of cell phones in high-tech cultures. \"Dim objects\" lightly manifest themselves in an assemblage of objects; for example, a neutrino passing through solid matter without producing observable effects. \"Dark objects\" are objects that are so completely withdrawn that they produce no local manifestations and do not affect any other objects. \"Rogue objects\" are not chained to any given assemblage of objects, but instead wander in and out of assemblages, modifying relations within the assemblages into which they enter. Political protestors exemplify rogue objects by breaking with the norms and relations of a dominant political assemblage in order to forge new relations that challenge, change, or cast off the prior assemblage. Additionally, Bryant has proposed the concept of 'wilderness ontology' to explain the philosophical pluralization of agency away from human privilege.\n\nTimothy Morton became involved with object-oriented ontology after his ecological writings were favorably compared with the movement's ideas. In \"The Ecological Thought\", Morton introduced the concept of \"hyperobjects\" to describe objects that are so massively distributed in time and space as to transcend spatiotemporal specificity, such as global warming, styrofoam, and radioactive plutonium. He has subsequently enumerated five characteristics of hyperobjects:\n\n\nAccording to Morton, hyperobjects not only become visible during an age of ecological crisis, but alert humans to the ecological dilemmas defining the age in which they live. Additionally, the existential capacity of hyperobjects to outlast a turn toward less materialistic cultural values, coupled with the threat many such objects pose toward organic matter gives them a potential spiritual quality, in which their treatment by future societies may become indistinguishable from reverential care.\n\nIan Bogost, a video game researcher at the Georgia Institute of Technology and founding partner of Persuasive Games, has articulated an \"applied\" object-oriented ontology, concerned more with the being of specific objects than the exploration of foundational principles. Bogost calls his approach \"alien phenomenology\", with the term \"alien\" designating the manner in which withdrawal accounts for the inviolability of objectal experience. From this perspective, an object may not recognize the experience of other objects because objects relate to one another using metaphors of selfhood.\n\nAlien phenomenology is grounded in three \"modes\" of practice. First, \"ontography\" entails the production of works that reveal the existence and relation of objects. Second, \"metaphorism\" denotes the production of works that speculate about the \"inner lives\" of objects, including how objects translate the experience of other objects into their own terms. Third, \"carpentry\" indicates the creation of artifacts that illustrate the perspective of objects, or how objects construct their own worlds. Bogost sometimes refers to his version of object-oriented thought as a \"tiny ontology\" to emphasize his rejection of rigid ontological categorization of forms of being, including distinctions between \"real\" and \"fictional\" objects.\n\nSome commentators contend that object-oriented ontology degrades meaning by placing humans and objects on equal footing. Matthew David Segall has argued that object-oriented philosophers should explore the theological and anthropological implications of their ideas in order to avoid \"slipping into the nihilism of some speculative realists, where human values are a fluke in an uncaring and fundamentally entropic universe\". Other critical commentators such as David Berry and Alexander Galloway have commented on the historical situatedness of an ontology that mirrors computational processes and even the metaphors and language of computation.\n\nCultural critic Steven Shaviro has criticized object-oriented ontology as too dismissive of process philosophy. According to Shaviro, the process philosophies of Alfred North Whitehead, Gilbert Simondon, and Gilles Deleuze account for how objects come into existence and endure over time, in contrast to the view that objects \"are already there\" taken by object-oriented approaches. Shaviro also finds fault with Harman's assertion that Whitehead, Simondon, and Iain Hamilton Grant undermine objects by positing objects as manifestations of a deeper, underlying substance, saying that the antecedence of these thinkers, particularly Grant and Simondon, includes the \"plurality of actually existing objects\", rather than a single substance of which objects are mere epiphenomena.\n\n"}
{"id": "149326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149326", "title": "Phylogenetic tree", "text": "Phylogenetic tree\n\nA phylogenetic tree or evolutionary tree is a branching diagram or \"tree\" showing the evolutionary relationships among various biological species or other entities—their phylogeny ()—based upon similarities and differences in their physical or genetic characteristics. All life on Earth is part of a single phylogenetic tree, indicating common ancestry.\n\nIn a \"rooted\" phylogenetic tree, each node with descendants represents the inferred most recent common ancestor of those descendants, and the edge lengths in some trees may be interpreted as time estimates. Each node is called a taxonomic unit. Internal nodes are generally called hypothetical taxonomic units, as they cannot be directly observed. Trees are useful in fields of biology such as bioinformatics, systematics, and phylogenetics. \"Unrooted\" trees illustrate only the relatedness of the leaf nodes and do not require the ancestral root to be known or inferred.\n\nThe idea of a \"tree of life\" arose from ancient notions of a ladder-like progression from lower into higher forms of life (such as in the Great Chain of Being). Early representations of \"branching\" phylogenetic trees include a \"paleontological chart\" showing the geological relationships among plants and animals in the book \"Elementary Geology\", by Edward Hitchcock (first edition: 1840).\n\nCharles Darwin (1859) also produced one of the first illustrations and crucially popularized the notion of an evolutionary \"tree\" in his seminal book \"The Origin of Species\". Over a century later, evolutionary biologists still use tree diagrams to depict evolution because such diagrams effectively convey the concept that speciation occurs through the adaptive and semirandom splitting of lineages. Over time, species classification has become less static and more dynamic.\n\nThe term \"phylogenetic\", or \"phylogeny\", derives from the two ancient greek words (), meaning \"race, lineage\", and (), meaning \"origin, source\".\n\nA rooted phylogenetic tree (see two graphics at top) is a directed tree with a unique node — the root — corresponding to the (usually imputed) most recent common ancestor of all the entities at the leaves of the tree. The root node does not have a parent node, but serves as the parent of all other nodes in the tree. The root is therefore a node of degree 2 while other internal nodes have a minimum degree of 3 (where \"degree\" here refers to the total number of incoming and outgoing edges).\n\nThe most common method for rooting trees is the use of an uncontroversial outgroup—close enough to allow inference from trait data or molecular sequencing, but far enough to be a clear outgroup.\n\nUnrooted trees illustrate the relatedness of the leaf nodes without making assumptions about ancestry. They do not require the ancestral root to be known or inferred. Unrooted trees can always be generated from rooted ones by simply omitting the root. By contrast, inferring the root of an unrooted tree requires some means of identifying ancestry. This is normally done by including an outgroup in the input data so that the root is necessarily between the outgroup and the rest of the taxa in the tree, or by introducing additional assumptions about the relative rates of evolution on each branch, such as an application of the molecular clock hypothesis.\n\nBoth rooted and unrooted phylogenetic trees can be either bifurcating or multifurcating, and either labeled or unlabeled. A rooted bifurcating tree has exactly two descendants arising from each interior node (that is, it forms a binary tree), and an unrooted bifurcating tree takes the form of an unrooted binary tree, a free tree with exactly three neighbors at each internal node. In contrast, a rooted multifurcating tree may have more than two children at some nodes and an unrooted multifurcating tree may have more than three neighbors at some nodes. A labeled tree has specific values assigned to its leaves, while an unlabeled tree, sometimes called a tree shape, defines a topology only. The number of possible trees for a given number of leaf nodes depends on the specific type of tree, but there are always more multifurcating than bifurcating trees, more labeled than unlabeled trees, and more rooted than unrooted trees. The last distinction is the most biologically relevant; it arises because there are many places on an unrooted tree to put the root. For labeled bifurcating trees, there are:\ntotal rooted trees and\ntotal unrooted trees, where formula_3 represents the number of leaf nodes. Among labeled bifurcating trees, the number of unrooted trees with formula_3 leaves is equal to the number of rooted trees with formula_5 leaves.\n\n\nPhylogenetic trees composed with a nontrivial number of input sequences are constructed using computational phylogenetics methods. Distance-matrix methods such as neighbor-joining or UPGMA, which calculate genetic distance from multiple sequence alignments, are simplest to implement, but do not invoke an evolutionary model. Many sequence alignment methods such as ClustalW also create trees by using the simpler algorithms (i.e. those based on distance) of tree construction. Maximum parsimony is another simple method of estimating phylogenetic trees, but implies an implicit model of evolution (i.e. parsimony). More advanced methods use the optimality criterion of maximum likelihood, often within a Bayesian Framework, and apply an explicit model of evolution to phylogenetic tree estimation. Identifying the optimal tree using many of these techniques is NP-hard, so heuristic search and optimization methods are used in combination with tree-scoring functions to identify a reasonably good tree that fits the data.\n\nTree-building methods can be assessed on the basis of several criteria:\n\nTree-building techniques have also gained the attention of mathematicians. Trees can also be built using T-theory.\n\nAlthough phylogenetic trees produced on the basis of sequenced genes or genomic data in different species can provide evolutionary insight, they have important limitations. Most importantly, they do not necessarily accurately represent the evolutionary history of the included taxa. In fact, they are literally scientific hypotheses, subject to falsification by further study (e.g., gathering of additional data, analyzing the existing data with improved methods). The data on which they are based is noisy; the analysis can be confounded by genetic recombination, horizontal gene transfer, hybridisation between species that were not nearest neighbors on the tree before hybridisation takes place, convergent evolution, and conserved sequences.\n\nAlso, there are problems in basing the analysis on a single type of character, such as a single gene or protein or only on morphological analysis, because such trees constructed from another unrelated data source often differ from the first, and therefore great care is needed in inferring phylogenetic relationships among species. This is most true of genetic material that is subject to lateral gene transfer and recombination, where different haplotype blocks can have different histories. In general, the output tree of a phylogenetic analysis is an estimate of the \"character\"'s phylogeny (i.e. a gene tree) and not the phylogeny of the taxa (i.e. species tree) from which these characters were sampled, though ideally, both should be very close. For this reason, serious phylogenetic studies generally use a combination of genes that come from different genomic sources (e.g., from mitochondrial or plastid vs. nuclear genomes), or genes that would be expected to evolve under different selective regimes, so that homoplasy (false homology) would be unlikely to result from natural selection.\n\nWhen extinct species are included in a tree, they are terminal nodes, as it is unlikely that they are direct ancestors of any extant species. Skepticism might be applied when extinct species are included in trees that are wholly or partly based on DNA sequence data, because little useful \"ancient DNA\" is preserved for longer than 100,000 years, and except in the most unusual circumstances no DNA sequences long enough for use in phylogenetic analyses have yet been recovered from material over 1 million years old.\n\nThe range of useful DNA materials has expanded with advances in extraction and sequencing technologies. Development of technologies able to infer sequences from smaller fragments, or from spatial patterns of DNA degradation products, would further expand the range of DNA considered useful.\n\nIn some organisms, endosymbionts have an independent genetic history from the host.\n\nPhylogenetic networks are used when bifurcating trees are not suitable, due to these complications which suggest a more reticulate evolutionary history of the organisms sampled.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28343348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28343348", "title": "Rest in peace", "text": "Rest in peace\n\nThe phrase \"Rest in peace\", RIP, from Latin Requiescat in pace (, )) is sometimes used in traditional Christian services and prayers, such as in the Anglican, Lutheran, Methodist, and Roman Catholic denominations, sometimes to wish the soul of a decedent eternal rest and peace in Christ.\n\nIt became ubiquitous on headstones in the 18th century, and is widely used today when mentioning someone's death.\n\nThe phrase \"dormit in pace\" (English: \"he sleeps in peace\") was found in the catacombs of the early Christians and indicated that \"they died in the peace of the Church, that is, united in Christ.\" The abbreviation R.I.P., meaning \"Requiescat in pace\" \"Rest in peace\", continues to be engraved on the gravestones of Christians, especially in the Catholic, Lutheran, and Anglican denominations.\n\nIn the Tridentine Requiem Mass of the Catholic Church the phrase appears several times.\n\nTo satisfy a vogue for rhyming couplets on tombstones, the phrase has been parsed ungrammatically as:\n\nThis verse has been found inscribed in Hebrew on gravestones dating from the 1st century BC, in the graveyard of Bet Shearim. It speaks of the righteous person who died because he could not stand the evil surrounding him. A recapture of these words, read as \"come and rest in peace,\" has been transferred to the ancient Talmudic prayers, in a mixture of Hebrew and Aramaic of the 3rd century AD. It is used to this day in traditional Jewish ceremonies.\n\nOther variations include \"Requiescat in pace et in amore\" for \"May she rest in peace and love\", and “In pace requiescat et in amore”. The word order is variable because Latin syntactical relationships are indicated by the inflexional endings, not by word order. If “Rest in peace” is used in an imperative mood, it would be “Requiesce in pace” (acronym R.I.P.) in the second person singular, or “Requiescite in pace” in the second person plural. In the common phrase \"Requiescat in pace\" the \"-at\" ending is appropriate because the verb is a third-person singular present active subjunctive used in a hortative sense: \"May he/she rest in peace.\"\n\nThe phrase was first found on tombstones some time before the fifth century. It became ubiquitous on the tombs of Christians in the 18th century, and for High Church Anglicans, Methodists, as well as Roman Catholics in particular, it was a prayerful request that their soul should find peace in the afterlife. When the phrase became conventional, the absence of a reference to the soul led people to suppose that it was the physical body that was enjoined to lie peacefully in the grave. This is associated with the Christian doctrine of the particular judgment; that is, that the soul is parted from the body upon death, but that the soul and body will be reunited on Judgment Day.\n\nIn 2017, members of the Orange Order in Northern Ireland called on Protestants to stop using the phrase \"RIP\" or \"Rest in Peace\". Wallace Thompson, the secretary of the Evangelical Protestant Society, said on a BBC Radio Ulster programme that he would encourage Protestants to refrain from using the term \"RIP\". Thompson said that he regards \"RIP\" as a prayer for the dead, which he believes contradicts biblical doctrine. In the same radio programme, Presbyterian Ken Newell disagreed that people are praying for the dead when they use the phrase.\n\nPhrases in other languages:\n\n"}
{"id": "47777239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47777239", "title": "Rom (comics)", "text": "Rom (comics)\n\nRom the Spaceknight is a fictional character and cosmic superhero created by Scott Dankman, Richard C. Levy, and Bryan L. McCoy for Parker Brothers, currently a subsidiary of Hasbro.\n\nRom appeared in the American comic book \"Rom: Spaceknight\" (December 1979 – February 1986) by Bill Mantlo and Sal Buscema, and published by Marvel Comics.\n\nIn July 2015, IDW Publishing began publishing a new \"Rom\" comic book series.\nOn December 2015, it was announced that a live-action film version of Rom was in development by Hasbro Studios and Paramount.\n\n\"Rom\" was a toy co-created by Scott Dankman, Richard C. Levy, and Bryan L. McCoy (US Patent #4,267,551). It was sold to Parker Brothers, and was the inspiration for the comic book series Rom: Spaceknight. The toy was originally named COBOL, after the programming language, but was later changed to \"Rom\", after ROM (read-only memory), by Parker Brothers executives.\n\nThe toy set a precedent for the game publishing company, which up until that time had only ever produced board games. As this was a new venture for the company, and given that electronic toys were still very new, a decision was made to produce the figure as cheaply as possible. As a result, the final product had very few points of articulation, and twin red LEDs served as Rom's eyes instead of the originally envisioned green, which were more expensive to produce.\n\nNot long after its debut, Rom appeared in the corner box of the cover of \"Time\" magazine's December 10, 1979, issue. It was featured in the interior article, \"Those Beeping, Thinking Toys,\" which decried Rom's lack of articulation and predicted it would \"end up among the dust balls under the playroom sofa.\"\n\nRom was licensed to Palitoy in the United Kingdom to extend the \"Space Adventurer\" line of Action Man, appearing in their 1980 catalog.\n\nAround the 2017 San Diego Comic Con, an new action figure of Rom was released for the convention and at HasbroToyShop.com in limited quantities as part of the IDW Revolution set alongside figures of Jetfire, Roadblock, Action Man, , characters from the Micronauts, a Dire Wraith and Matt Trakker.\n\nTo build interest in the toy, Parker Brothers licensed the character to Marvel Comics, which created a comic book featuring Rom. The comic expanded on the premise that Rom was a cyborg and gave him an origin, personality, set of supporting characters and villains, as well as interaction within the Marvel Universe. The comic was written by Bill Mantlo and initially illustrated by artist Sal Buscema. Buscema stated in a 2010 interview, \"I liked the character. And I liked what they did with it. I thought the concept was quite good. It was unique. It made it attractive to do. I almost hate to say this, but it was pretty easy to draw, too.\" Buscema was the main artist for the series from its creation through 1984. Steve Ditko took over for the final two years of the original run.\n\nUltimately, the toy failed and only sold 200,000 to 300,000 units in the US, with creator McCoy blaming the failure on poor packaging and marketing. Parker Brothers subsequently abandoned the line.\n\nThe comic book outlasted the toy which it was created to support. The series lasted for 75 issues (not including the four annual issues) from December 1979 to February 1986. Rom's regular encounters with mainstream heroes and villains established him as part of Marvel continuity.\n\nOn May 7, 2016, having licensed the character from Parker Brothers' parent company, Hasbro, IDW Publishing debuted a brand new \"Rom\" #0 as part of Free Comic Book Day. The free issue serves as a prologue to a new ongoing series which began in July 2016.\n\nIn the comic book, Rom is more than a simple cyborg, being originally from a utopian society on the planet Galador. The series details Rom's defeat of the invading Dire Wraith alien race, and the continuation of their battle on Earth and other planets. Unlike the technologically advanced Galadorian civilization, the Dire Wraiths rely primarily on dark magic and their power to change their appearance.\n\nSome years before Rom's arrival on Earth, Galador is threatened by a fleet of ships manned by the Dire Wraiths. Galador's ruler, the Prime Director, calls for volunteers to be transformed into Spaceknights, cyborg warriors that can defend the planet from the invaders. The volunteers are promised that their \"humanity\" (the body parts that would be removed to accommodate the bionic armor) would be preserved and restored to them after the danger was over. Rom was the first to volunteer, and was transformed into a large, silver humanoid that at first glance appeared to be totally robotic. Rom was given Galador's greatest weapon - the Neutralizer - which on one setting could banish the Wraiths into the Limbo dimension forever. Inspired by his example, a total of 1,000 Galadorians volunteered and were transformed into Spaceknights, each with his or her own unique armor, powers and code names.\n\nThe Spaceknights succeeded in stopping the Dire Wraith invasion, although Rom decided to follow the remnants of the fleet back to their home planet – Wraithworld – which orbited a black sun. The Dire Wraiths panicked, and after a futile counter-attack abandoned the planet and scattered throughout space. Unable to stop Rom, the Dire Wraiths successfully used their sorcery to trick him into allowing their escape. Rom now felt responsible for spreading the Dire Wraiths' evil across the universe, and swore he would not reclaim his humanity until all Dire Wraiths had been vanquished. His fellow Spaceknights, including comrades Starshine and Terminator, swore the same oath and left Galador.\n\nRom arrives on Earth 200 years later, and it is at this point that the \"Rom\" series begins. Landing near the fictional town of Clairton, in West Virginia, United States, Rom encounters Brandy Clark. After seeing Rom deal with the Dire Wraiths firsthand, the young woman comes to understand his mission and helps to hide Rom from prying eyes. This becomes necessary once Rom uses the Neutralizer in public, as witnesses only see a \"killer robot\" disintegrating innocents - they do not realize that Rom is in fact banishing Dire Wraiths in human form. In time, Steve Jackson helps Rom in his mission, but Brandy began to fall in love with the noble Rom thus Brandy's relationship with Steve was strained.\n\nDuring his time on Earth, Rom fights and banishes thousands of Dire Wraiths. The increasingly desperate Dire Wraiths create new foes for Rom, such as Firefall - a fusion of human and Spaceknight; the sorcerous Hellhounds; and robotic Watchwraiths. Two of Rom's greatest foes are the aptly named Hybrid (a hideous result of a union between Wraith and human), and Mentus (a suit of Spaceknight armor occupied by the dark side of the Prime Director's psyche). Many other opponents were more traditional and hailed from the Marvel Universe proper, such as the Mad Thinker, the Space Phantom, and Galactus and his then-herald Terrax. He encountered such heroes as the X-Men, Power Man and Iron Fist, the Fantastic Four, Nova, the Thing, and the Hulk. Rom was one of the many heroes transported into an arena in space for the Contest of Champions, though he was not chosen to participate.\n\nAt one stage, Rom's war against the Dire Wraiths takes a turn for the worse - a new breed appeared on Earth, and appeared to be far deadlier than the first variety. It is later revealed that these are females who rely on sorcery, as opposed to the weaker males who placed their faith in science. Unlike the males, the female Dire Wraiths chose not to act in secrecy and openly attack Clairton while Rom is away, killing everyone (including Steve and superhero ally the Torpedo) with the exception of Brandy. Furthermore, they attack S.H.I.E.L.D.'s mobile headquarters which gave Earth authorities clear evidence of the Dire Wraiths' existence and threat. The Dire Wraiths came into conflict with the Avengers and the X-Men as well. Rom manages to banish all Dire Wraiths on Earth to Limbo with the aid of his super-powered allies and members of the U.S. military.\n\nRom leaves Earth soon after the battle and returns to Galador. Unknown to Rom, Brandy had accidentally met the entity called the Beyonder, and Brandy asked to be transported to Galador. The Beyonder complied and Brandy found herself on Galador, now a war-torn world occupied by a new generation of cyborg-Spaceknights. Created to defend Galador in the absence of the first Spaceknights, this next generation of cyborgs became corrupted by their power, and feeling superior to normal Galadorians, massacred the entire race. In an act of sheer spite, the new Spaceknights destroyed the frozen remains of the originals. Rom arrived too late and could only save Brandy. Enraged, Rom summoned the original Spaceknights and together they destroyed the traitors. Rom then made a surprising discovery - his original humanity persisted within the entombed body of Terminator. Reclaiming it, Rom became human again and finally admitted his love for Brandy. The two chose to remain on Galador, with the intent of repopulating the planet. The remaining Spaceknights, their humanity now lost, set out to explore the universe, except for a few others that remained on Galador to protect Rom and Brandy.\n\nDuring Rick Jones's wedding to Marlo Chandler, the human Rom returned to Earth, together with Brandy, as guests at the ceremony, and Rom greeted the Hulk with a friendly handshake.\n\nIn the \"Spaceknights\" miniseries (Oct. 2000 – Feb. 2001) written by Jim Starlin it is revealed that Rom took the name Artour (a reference to Brandy's love of Arthurian legends, and perhaps in memory of his own encounter with King Arthur's ghost) and that he and Brandy had two sons. Rom himself is not actually seen in the series, nor is he mentioned by that name or shown in his spaceknight form (no doubt to skirt the fact that Marvel no longer held the license from Parker Brothers, which had retained the copyrights on Rom's name and armored likeness); his ship is attacked off-panel just prior to the start of the story, with Rom himself missing and presumed dead.\n\nRom's armor was composed of the Galadorian metal plandanium. It is extremely durable, even going so far as to stand up to Wolverine's adamantium claws. It was shown to be damaged from time to time, demonstrating that plandanium is not indestructible. The armor had self-repair capabilities, though it took several weeks to repair major damage. It provided him with superhuman strength, flight, and the ability to travel through space via backpack rockets. It allowed him to breathe in any atmosphere and survive in the vacuum of space. In Spaceknight form, Rom also did not need to eat or sleep. Controls near the torso allowed Rom to lower the armor's temperature to well below zero. The armor stored a \"solar charge\" that could be used as a weapon and could drain power sources by mere contact. It gave him the ability to summon three pieces of equipment stored in \"subspace\":\nIn the new \"Rom\" series by IDW, his energy Analyzer is represented as two red lenses mounted on his arms. The arms transform to reveal the lenses, which emit a red light when in operation.\nIn the IDW series, the Translator is not a separate piece of equipment, but a function of Rom himself. When he first speaks, he uses an alien language before shifting to English, seemingly mid-sentence.\n\nAs Marvel Comics no longer possesses the licensing rights to Rom from Parker Brothers, the character is not allowed to appear in his armored form. Marvel has found ways to work around this dilemma.\n\nLegal issues regarding the reprinting of Rom guest appearances in other comics have led to complications. Brief cameos such as a holographic version of the character appearing as a distraction in \"Uncanny X-Men\" #187 have remained intact as have the Rom entries in the \"Essential Marvel\" trade paperbacks for the original \"Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe\" and its deluxe edition sequel. The cover of the \"Essential Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe\" removed Rom from the artwork used for the cover of the collection.\n\nSeveral appearances by Rom have been outright omitted. \"Power Man and Iron Fist\" #73, which featured Rom was omitted from \"Essential Power Man and Iron Fist\" vol. 1, and similarly \"Marvel Two-in-One\" #99 was omitted from \"Essential Marvel Two-in-One\" vol. 4, while \"The Incredible Hulk: Regression\" trade paperback features a heavily edited version of \"The Incredible Hulk\" #296, removing Rom's entire appearance in the issue. Furthermore, \"Rom\" #72, which was a tie-in to the \"Secret Wars II\" series, was omitted from the \"Secret Wars II Omnibus\".\n\nIn December 2015, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" reported that Hasbro Studios and Paramount Pictures are creating a movie universe combining Rom with \"G.I. Joe\", \"Micronauts\", \"\", and \"M.A.S.K.\". Michael Chabon, Brian K. Vaughan, Nicole Perlman, Lindsey Beer, Cheo Coker, John Francis Daley, Jonathan Goldstein, Joe Robert Cole, Jeff Pinkner, Nicole Riegel, and Geneva Robertson have joined the writing team for the project. By March 2018, Zak Penn had signed on to write the film's script.\n\nRom has also appeared in at least one episode of the parody show \"Robot Chicken\" on the Cartoon Network's Adult Swim late night programming.\n\nRom appeared in the \"South Park\" episode \"Imaginationland\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39469485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39469485", "title": "Self/less", "text": "Self/less\n\nSelf/less is a 2015 American science fiction action thriller film directed by Tarsem Singh, produced by Ram Bergman and James D. Stern and written by Alex and David Pastor. The film tells the story of a business tycoon and billionaire named Damian Hale, who is diagnosed with a deadly illness. However, he manages to somehow save his life with the aid of Professor Albright, who transfers Hale's consciousness into a new, younger body. The film stars Ryan Reynolds, Natalie Martinez, Matthew Goode, Victor Garber, Derek Luke, and Ben Kingsley.\n\nThe film was originally set to release on February 27, 2015, but because of multiple setbacks, it was not released until July 10, 2015. It was produced by Endgame Entertainment and was financed by FilmDistrict and was predicted to be financially successful, due to its association with the producers Ram Bergman and James D. Stern, who also produced \"Looper\", as well as the ensemble cast. However the film only grossed $12 million in North America and a total of $30 million worldwide, against a $26 million production budget. Upon release, the film received generally negative reviews from critics and audiences, with praise for the concept and performances but criticism towards the storytelling, action sequences, effects, and stunts.\n\nBillionaire New York real-estate tycoon Damian Hale (Ben Kingsley) is master of his own universe, until he is diagnosed with terminal cancer. Now on his deathbed, he finds a business card directing him to a man named Professor Albright (Matthew Goode), who informs him about a radical medical procedure called \"shedding\", in which one's consciousness is transferred to an artificially grown healthy body. Damian decides to undergo the procedure, and follows Albright's instructions to stage his own public death. Albright transfers him into a new body (Ryan Reynolds) and prescribes medication to alleviate the vivid hallucinations which he claims are side effects of the procedure.\n\nAfter a period of adaptation exercises, Damian starts a new life in New Orleans under the assumed name of Edward Kidner and quickly befriends his neighbor Anton (Derek Luke). However, when he forgets to take his medicine, he subsequently suffers hallucinations of a woman and child. When Damian asks Albright about the hallucinations, Albright dismisses his concerns, but accidentally reveals that he knows details of the hallucinations that Damian did not tell him. Albright arranges for Damian to move to Hawaii for a change of scenery, but Damian, convinced the hallucinations are some kind of memory, identifies a landmark he saw in his vision and heads to St. Louis instead.\n\nAt a farmhouse outside of St. Louis, he finds the woman, Madeline (Natalie Martinez), who reacts to him as her apparently deceased husband, Mark Bitwell. Damian learns, much to his horror, that the body he is inhabiting belonged to another man who sold himself to Albright in order to gain the money he needed to pay for their daughter Anna's life-saving medical treatment. Shortly after arriving at the house Damian and Madeline are attacked by Albright's men, led by Anton, who reveals that he is one of Albright's employees. In a bid to escape, Damian severely wounds Anton and kills his accomplices. Damian and Madeline leave the farm and collect Anna from school, where they flee.\n\nAt a motel stop overnight, discovering he has no more of the medicine he needs, Damian uses a laptop computer to research \"shedding\" and discovers an ill, elderly Dr. Francis Jensen (Thomas Francis Murphy), now deceased, was the pioneer researcher in the field of transhumanism. In a video interview of Jensen, Damian notices a tic he shares with Albright. When he then sees a young Albright sitting next to Jensen in the same video, Damian concludes Albright was Jensen's assistant, and Jensen has shed himself into Albright's body.\n\nDamian finds Dr. Jensen's wife, Phyllis, in a nursing home in New Orleans and tries to get her to reveal where her husband's research is, but she does not know due to suffering from alzheimer's. Damian then lures Jensen to the facility and confronts him. Jensen explains his motivations, but Damian rejects them. Jensen reveals that the pills will eventually eliminate the \"Mark\" personality of the body Damian is inhabiting, but if he stops taking the pills, his consciousness will die and Mark will reassert control of his body.\n\nAs they leave to go to the medical lab, more assassins show up. Jensen escapes, while Damian struggles with another man whom he recognizes as Anton in a new body, due to the necklace that he is wearing. Damian is almost overpowered, but Madeline saves him when she intervenes and wounds Anton. Anton then reveals to Damian that he has shed multiple times, and the process is easier the more often it is done. While Damian confiscates Anton's pills, Anton taunts Madeline to ask her 'husband' why he can't answer personal questions about their life. Damian, Madeline, and Anna then escape again.\n\nAfter they are safely away, Madeline confronts Damian over his behavior and lack of knowledge of their personal details, and forces him to reveal to her all that has happened. He then takes her and Anna to his old friend Martin O'Neill (Victor Garber) and convinces him to arrange for Madeline and Anna to flee to the Caribbean. However, he and Madeline discover Anna playing with Martin's young son Tony (Dylan Lowe), who died two years ago; Martin admits that he used shedding to save his son, and that Jensen's men are waiting for them. Damian then reveals the dark secret behind shedding to Martin, who believed that the bodies were artificially grown in a lab and is shocked to find out that his son's new body is really someone else's son. Damian flees to distract Jensen's men while Martin, Madeline, and Anna try to escape through a forest. In an extended car-chase scene, Damian manages to crash Anton's car with him in it and defeat his pursuers, but not before they realize that Damian is alone in the vehicle. Realizing this, Jensen's henchmen recapture Madeline and Anna.\n\nWith Martin's assistance, Damian stops taking his medicine in order to experience more of Mark's memories, hoping they will lead him to Jensen. This succeeds, and Damian pursues Jensen to a lab built in an abandoned warehouse. There, Jensen captures him and attempts to shed Anton into Mark's body, but Damian, remembering that metal interferes with the shedding process, hides a bullet casing in his mouth, therefore sabotaging the procedure and killing Anton in the process. Then, Damian masquerades as Anton and rescues Madeline and Anna, who are being held at the lab as possible shedding receptacles. Damian then kills Jensen with a flamethrower. After they escape, Damian arranges for Madeline and Anna to flee the country as planned. Damian, using the Edward Kidner alias, visits his own estranged daughter Claire (Michelle Dockery) and delivers her a letter that serves to reconcile Claire with her estranged father. He then heads to the Caribbean and stops taking his medicine, dying peacefully. The real Mark reawakens in his own body and discovers a video message from Damian (in Mark's body) that was recorded before his death thanking him for the time he gave him. Mark then reunites with his family at last.\n\nEndgame Entertainment and FilmDistrict financed the film, who quickly put the film into development after the two companies saw success with their previous sci-fi film \"Looper\". FilmNation pre-sold the film at Cannes in 2013 and it was the first film to completely sell out at the festival due to universal appeal and the strong pre-sales limited the two financiers' exposure to the budget. FilmDistrict was set to distribute the film in the United States, but the company shut down and was absorbed into Universal's subsidiary Focus Features.\n\nPrincipal photography began in October 2013 in New Orleans. Scenes were filmed at the Commander's Palace and the Howling Wolf.\n\nAntônio Pinto composed the film score. Dudu Aram was credited for additional music, as he had on other scores by Pinto.\n\nThe film was originally set to release on February 27, 2015. On July 2, 2014, the film was rescheduled to release on April 17, 2015. However, on November 8, 2014, the studio once again postponed the film for a July 10, 2015 release.\n\nThe first trailer was released on March 4, 2015.\n\nOn May 20, 2015, Focus Features relaunched their Gramercy Pictures label for action, horror, and science-fiction movies. \"Self/less\" would be one of Gramercy's new releases. However, Gramercy had no credit on the film when it was released.\n\n\"Self/less\" grossed $12.3 million in North America and $18.2 million in other territories for a total of $30.5 million, against a production budget of $26 million.\n\nThe film opened in North America on July 10, 2015 in 2,353 theaters, earning $5.4 million in its opening weekend, ranking number eight at the domestic box office.\n\nThe film also opened in Sweden and Turkey on the same day as the United States. It opened in fifth place in the latter with $135,191 from 208 screens. The movie stayed in the box office for six weeks, ending with a total of $495,953. The film opened in Italy on September 10, 2015, and finished in seventh place with a total of $353,291.\n\n\"Self/less\" has received generally negative reviews from critics; despite receiving some praise for its original premise, the movie was criticized for the generic execution and lack of character development. The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a rating of 19%, based on 129 reviews, with an average rating of 4.5/10. The site's consensus reads: \"\"Self/less\" boasts a potential-packed premise, but does frustratingly little with it, settling for lackluster action at the expense of interesting ideas.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 34 out of 100, based on 30 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\". In CinemaScore polls, cinema audiences gave \"Self/less\" an average grade of \"B+\" on an A+ to F scale. The IGN review by Josh Lasser awarded it a score of 5.0 out of 10, saying \"For someone with great visual command of the medium, Singh's latest is a disappointment.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2471811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2471811", "title": "SpaceGodzilla", "text": "SpaceGodzilla\n\nThe character was designed as a homage to the monster's hinted progenitor Biollante by incorporating tusks and a hissing roar reminiscent of the latter monster. Creature designer Shinji Nishikawa had initially envisioned SpaceGodzilla as a much more Western dragon-like creature with large fin-like wings on the back. Other early designs for the proposed \"Astrogodzilla\" included it being an albino Godzilla with expansive wings, two tails, and the ability to fire an ice ray. Another design for SpaceGodzilla had the character be a quadruped or a much more Biollante-like monster commanding a horde of cosmic dragonflies. The final design bore greater resemblance to Godzilla's final form from the video game \"Super Godzilla\", itself also designed by Nishikawa. Special effects artist Koichi Kawakita decided to incorporate crystals onto the SpaceGodzilla design, and added a prominent horn on the creature's head in order to hint at its power and imply it had radar abilities.\n\nIn its debut film, SpaceGodzilla's origins are left ambiguous, but it is theorized that it was born through Godzilla cells (transported into space either by Mothra or Biollante's spores) being exposed to the radiation of a black hole. SpaceGodzilla heads for Earth and traps Little Godzilla in a crystalline prison, before travelling to Fukuoka and forming a crystal fortress which drains the city of power, channels it through Fukuoka Tower and transfers it to SpaceGodzilla. It is ultimately stopped through the combined efforts of Godzilla and M.O.G.U.E.R.A.\n\nWhile the film received mixed reactions, SpaceGodzilla was generally well received. \"DVD Cult\" said, \"The monster SpaceGodzilla is excellently designed, and is certainly far more menacing than anything Dean Devlin and Roland Emmerich ever dreamed up.\" \"Toho Kingdom\" praised his theme music, and said \"SpaceGodzilla has a nice, hectic, theme that suits him and works well when used through out the movie,\" while \"Complex\" listed the character as #11 on its \"The 15 Most Badass Kaiju Monsters of All Time\" list, calling him \"probably the most powerful thing Godzilla has ever faced\". However, the character's design was criticized by Godzilla historian Steve Ryfle, who stated that, although evil-looking, it was too evocative of the haphazardly designed monsters of the generally low-quality Godzilla films of the 1970s like Hedorah and Gigan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39375", "title": "Space suit", "text": "Space suit\n\nA space suit is a garment worn to keep a human alive in the harsh environment of outer space, vacuum and temperature extremes. Space suits are often worn inside spacecraft as a safety precaution in case of loss of cabin pressure, and are necessary for extravehicular activity (EVA), work done outside spacecraft. Space suits have been worn for such work in Earth orbit, on the surface of the Moon, and en route back to Earth from the Moon. Modern space suits augment the basic pressure garment with a complex system of equipment and environmental systems designed to keep the wearer comfortable, and to minimize the effort required to bend the limbs, resisting a soft pressure garment's natural tendency to stiffen against the vacuum. A self-contained oxygen supply and environmental control system is frequently employed to allow complete freedom of movement, independent of the spacecraft.\n\nThree types of space suits exist for different purposes: IVA (intravehicular activity), EVA (extravehicular activity), and IEVA (intra/extravehicular activity). IVA suits are meant to be worn inside a pressurized spacecraft, and are therefore lighter and more comfortable. IEVA suits are meant for use inside and outside the spacecraft, such as the Gemini G4C suit. They include more protection from the harsh conditions of space, such as protection from micrometeorites and extreme temperature change. EVA suits, such as the EMU, are used outside spacecraft, for either planetary exploration or spacewalks. They must protect the wearer against all conditions of space, as well as provide mobility and functionality.\n\nSome of these requirements also apply to pressure suits worn for other specialized tasks, such as high-altitude reconnaissance flight. At altitudes above the Armstrong limit, around , water boils at body temperature and pressurized suits are needed.\n\nThe first full-pressure suits for use at extreme altitudes were designed by individual inventors as early as the 1930s. The first space suit worn by a human in space was the Soviet SK-1 suit worn by Yuri Gagarin in 1961.\n\nA space suit must perform several functions to allow its occupant to work safely and comfortably, inside or outside a spacecraft. It must provide:\n\nAdvanced suits better regulate the astronaut's temperature with a Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garment (LCVG) in contact with the astronaut's skin, from which the heat is dumped into space through an external radiator in the PLSS.\n\nAdditional requirements for EVA include:\n\nAs part of astronautical hygiene control (i.e., protecting astronauts from extremes of temperature, radiation, etc.), a space suit is essential for extravehicular activity. The Apollo/Skylab A7L suit included eleven layers in all: an inner liner, a LCVG, a pressure bladder, a restraint layer, another liner, and a Thermal Micrometeoroid Garment consisting of five aluminized insulation layers and an external layer of white Ortho-Fabric. This space suit is capable of protecting the astronaut from temperatures ranging from to .\n\nDuring exploration of the moon or Mars, there will be the potential for lunar/Martian dust to be retained on the space suit. When the space suit is removed on return to the spacecraft, there will be the potential for the dust to contaminate surfaces and increase the risks of inhalation and skin exposure. Astronautical hygienists are testing materials with reduced dust retention times and the potential to control the dust exposure risks during planetary exploration. Novel ingress/egress approaches, such as suitports, are being explored as well.\n\nIn NASA space suits, communications are provided via a cap worn over the head, which includes earphones and a microphone. Due to the coloration of the version used for Apollo and Skylab, which resembled the coloration of the comic strip character Snoopy, these caps became known as \"Snoopy caps.\"\n\nGenerally, to supply enough oxygen for respiration, a space suit using pure oxygen must have a pressure of about , equal to the partial pressure of oxygen in the Earth's atmosphere at sea level, plus and water vapor pressure, both of which must be subtracted from the alveolar pressure to get alveolar oxygen partial pressure in 100% oxygen atmospheres, by the alveolar gas equation. The latter two figures add to , which is why many modern space suits do not use , but (this is a slight overcorrection, as alveolar partial pressures at sea level are slightly less than the former). In space suits that use 20.7 kPa, the astronaut gets only 20.7 kPa − 11.7 kPa = of oxygen, which is about the alveolar oxygen partial pressure attained at an altitude of above sea level. This is about 78% of normal partial pressure of oxygen at sea level, about the same as pressure in a commercial passenger jet aircraft, and is the realistic lower limit for safe ordinary space suit pressurization which allows reasonable capacity for work.\n\nWhen space suits below a specific operating pressure are used from craft that are pressurized to normal atmospheric pressure (such as the Space Shuttle), this requires astronauts to \"pre-breathe\" (meaning pre-breathe pure oxygen for a period) before donning their suits and depressurizing in the air lock. This procedure purges the body of dissolved nitrogen, so as to avoid decompression sickness due to rapid depressurization from a nitrogen-containing atmosphere.\n\nThe human body can briefly survive the hard vacuum of space unprotected, despite contrary depictions in some popular science fiction. Human flesh expands to about twice its size in such conditions, giving the visual effect of a body builder rather than an overfilled balloon. Consciousness is retained for up to 15 seconds as the effects of oxygen starvation set in. No snap freeze effect occurs because all heat must be lost through thermal radiation or the evaporation of liquids, and the blood does not boil because it remains pressurized within the body.\n\nIn space, there are many different highly energized subatomic protons that will expose the body to extreme radiation. Although these compounds are minimal in amount, their high energy is liable to disrupt essential physical and chemical processes in the body, such as altering DNA or causing cancers. Exposure to radiation can create problems via two methods: the particles can react with water in the human body to produce free radicals that break DNA molecules apart, or by directly breaking the DNA molecules.\n\nTemperature in space can vary extremely depending on where the sun is. Temperatures from solar radiation can reach up to and lower down to . Because of this, space suits must provide proper insulation and cooling.\n\nThe vacuum in space creates zero pressure, causing the gases and processes in the body to expand. In order to prevent chemical processes in the body from overreacting, it is necessary to develop a suit that counteracts against the pressure in space. The greatest danger is in attempting to hold one's breath before exposure, as the subsequent explosive decompression can damage the lungs. These effects have been confirmed through various accidents (including in very-high-altitude conditions, outer space and training vacuum chambers). Human skin does not need to be protected from vacuum and is gas-tight by itself. Instead, it only needs to be mechanically compressed to retain its normal shape. This can be accomplished with a tight-fitting elastic body suit and a helmet for containing breathing gases, known as a space activity suit (SAS).\n\nA space suit should allow its user natural unencumbered movement. Nearly all designs try to maintain a constant volume no matter what movements the wearer makes. This is because mechanical work is needed to change the volume of a constant pressure system. If flexing a joint reduces the volume of the space suit, then the astronaut must do extra work every time he bends that joint, and he has to maintain a force to keep the joint bent. Even if this force is very small, it can be seriously fatiguing to constantly fight against one's suit. It also makes delicate movements very difficult. The work required to bend a joint is dictated by the formula\n\nwhere \"V\" and \"V\" are respectively the initial and final volume of the joint, \"P\" is the pressure in the suit, and \"W\" is the resultant work. It is generally true that all suits are more mobile at lower pressures. However, because a minimum internal pressure is dictated by life support requirements, the only means of further reducing work is to minimize the change in volume.\n\nAll space suit designs try to minimize or eliminate this problem. The most common solution is to form the suit out of multiple layers. The bladder layer is a rubbery, airtight layer much like a balloon. The restraint layer goes outside the bladder, and provides a specific shape for the suit. Since the bladder layer is larger than the restraint layer, the restraint takes all of the stresses caused by the pressure inside the suit. Since the bladder is not under pressure, it will not \"pop\" like a balloon, even if punctured. The restraint layer is shaped in such a way that bending a joint causes pockets of fabric, called \"gores,\" to open up on the outside of the joint, while folds called \"convolutes\" fold up on the inside of the joint. The gores make up for the volume lost on the inside of the joint, and keep the suit at a nearly constant volume. However, once the gores are opened all the way, the joint cannot be bent any further without a considerable amount of work.\n\nIn some Russian space suits, strips of cloth were wrapped tightly around the cosmonaut's arms and legs outside the space suit to stop the space suit from ballooning when in space.\n\nThe outermost layer of a space suit, the Thermal Micrometeoroid Garment, provides thermal insulation, protection from micrometeoroids, and shielding from harmful solar radiation.\n\nThere are four main conceptual approaches to suit design:\nSoft suits typically are made mostly of fabrics. All soft suits have some hard parts, some even have hard joint bearings. Intra-vehicular activity and early EVA suits were soft suits.\n\nHard-shell suits are usually made of metal or composite materials and do not use fabric for joints. Hard suits joints use ball bearings and wedge-ring segments similar to an adjustable elbow of a stove pipe to allow a wide range of movement with the arms and legs. The joints maintain a constant volume of air internally and do not have any counter force. Therefore, the astronaut does not need to exert to hold the suit in any position. Hard suits can also operate at higher pressures which would eliminate the need for an astronaut to pre-breathe oxygen to use a space suit before an EVA from a spacecraft cabin. The joints may get into a restricted or locked position requiring the astronaut to manipulate or program the joint. The NASA Ames Research Center experimental AX-5 hard-shell space suit had a flexibility rating of 95%. The wearer could move into 95% of the positions he or she could while nude.\n\nHybrid suits have hard-shell parts and fabric parts. NASA's Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) uses a fiberglass Hard Upper Torso (HUT) and fabric limbs. ILC Dover's I-Suit replaces the HUT with a fabric soft upper torso to save weight, restricting the use of hard components to the joint bearings, helmet, waist seal, and rear entry hatch. Virtually all workable space suit designs incorporate hard components, particularly at interfaces such as the waist seal, bearings, and in the case of rear-entry suits, the back hatch, where all-soft alternatives are not viable.\n\nSkintight suits, also known as mechanical counterpressure suits or space activity suits, are a proposed design which would use a heavy elastic body stocking to compress the body. The head is in a pressurized helmet, but the rest of the body is pressurized only by the elastic effect of the suit. This mitigates the constant volume problem, reduces the possibility of a space suit depressurization and gives a very lightweight suit. When not worn, the elastic garments may appear to be that of clothing for a small child. These suits may be very difficult to put on and face problems with providing a uniform pressure. Most proposals use the body's natural perspiration to keep cool. Sweat evaporates readily in vacuum and may desublime or deposit on objects nearby: optics, sensors, the astronaut's visor, and other surfaces. The icy film and sweat residue may contaminate sensitive surfaces and affect optical performance.\n\nRelated preceding technologies include the gas mask used in World War II, the oxygen mask used by pilots of high flying bombers in World War II, the high altitude or vacuum suit required by pilots of the Lockheed U-2 and SR-71 Blackbird, the diving suit, rebreather, scuba diving gear, and many others.\n\nMany space suit designs are taken from the U.S. Air Force suits, which are designed to work in “high altitude aircraft pressure[s],” such as the Mercury IVA suit or the Gemini G4C, or the Advanced Crew Escape Suits.\n\nThe Mercury IVA, the first U.S. space suit design, included lights at the tips of the gloves in order to provide visual aid. As the need for extravehicular activity grew, suits such as the Apollo A7L included gloves made of a metal fabric called Chromel-r in order to prevent punctures. In order to retain a better sense of touch for the astronauts, the fingertips of the gloves were made of silicone. With the shuttle program, it became necessary to be able to operate spacecraft modules, so the ACES suits featured gripping on the gloves. EMU gloves, which are used for spacewalks, are heated to keep the astronaut's hands warm. The Phase VI gloves, meant for use with the Mark III suit, are the first gloves to be designed with \"laser scanning technology, 3D computer modeling, stereo lithography, laser cutting technology and CNC machining.\" This allows for cheaper, more accurate production, as well as increased detail in joint mobility and flexibility.\n\nPrior to the Apollo missions, life support in space suits was connected to the space capsule via an umbilical cord-like device. However, with the Apollo missions, life support was configured into a removable capsule called the Portable Life Support System that allowed the astronaut to explore the moon without having to be attached to the space craft. The EMU space suit, used for spacewalks, allows the astronaut to manually control the internal environment of the suit. The Mark III suit has a backpack filled with about 12 pounds of liquid air, as well as pressurization and heat exchange.\n\nThe development of the spheroidal dome helmet was key in balancing the need for field of view, pressure compensation, and low weight. One inconvenience with some space suits is the head being fixed facing forwards and being unable to turn to look sideways. Astronauts call this effect \"alligator head.\"\n\n\n\n\n\nSeveral companies and universities are developing technologies and prototypes which represent improvements over current space suits.\n\nThere are certain difficulties in designing a dexterous space suit glove and there are limitations to the current designs. For this reason, the Centennial Astronaut Glove Challenge was created to build a better glove. Competitions have been held in 2007 and 2009, and another is planned. The 2009 contest required the glove to be covered with a micro-meteorite layer.\n\nSince 2009, the Austrian Space Forum has been developing \"Aouda.X\", an experimental Mars analogue space suit focusing on an advanced human-machine interface and on-board computing network to increase situational awareness. The suit is designed to study contamination vectors in planetary exploration analogue environments and create limitations depending on the pressure regime chosen for a simulation.\n\nSince 2012, for the Mars2013 analogue mission by the Austrian Space Forum to Erfoud, Morocco, the Aouda.X analogue space suit has a sister in the form of Aouda.S. This is a slightly less sophisticated suit meant primarily to assist Aouda.X operations and be able to study the interactions between two (analogue) astronauts in similar suits.\n\nThe Aouda.X and Aouda.S space suits have been named after the fictional princess from the Jules Verne's 1873 novel \"Around the World in Eighty Days\" and can be followed on Facebook. A public display mock-up of Aouda.X (called Aouda.D) is currently on display at the Dachstein Ice Cave in Obertraun, Austria, after the experiments done there in 2012.\n\nBio-Suit is a space activity suit under development at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which consisted of several lower leg prototypes. Bio-suit is custom fit to each wearer, using laser body scanning.\n\nOn August 2, 2006, NASA indicated plans to issue a Request for Proposal (RFP) for the design, development, certification, production, and sustaining engineering of the Constellation Space Suit to meet the needs of the Constellation Program. NASA foresees a single suit capable of supporting: survivability during launch, entry and abort; zero-gravity EVA; lunar surface EVA; and Mars surface EVA.\n\nOn June 11, 2008, NASA awarded a USD$745 million contract to Oceaneering International to create the new space suit.\n\nFinal Frontier Design (FFD) is developing a commercial full IVA space suit, with their first suit completed in 2010. FFD's suits are intended as a light-weight, highly mobile, and inexpensive commercial space suits. Since 2011, FFD has upgraded IVA suit's designs, hardware, processes, and capabilities. FFD has built a total of 7 IVA space suit (2016) assemblies for various institutions and customers since founding, and has conducted high fidelity human testing in simulators, aircraft, microgravity, and hypobaric chambers. FFD has a Space Act Agreement with NASA’s Commercial Space Capabilities Office to develop and execute a Human Rating Plan for FFD IVA suit. FFD categorizes their IVA suits according to their mission: Terra for Earth-based testing, Stratos for high altitude flights, and Exos for orbital space flights. Each suit category has different requirements for manufacturing controls, validations, and materials, but are of a similar architecture.\n\nThe I-Suit is a space suit prototype also constructed by ILC Dover, which incorporates several design improvements over the EMU, including a weight-saving soft upper torso. Both the Mark III and the I-Suit have taken part in NASA's annual Desert Research and Technology Studies (D-RATS) field trials, during which suit occupants interact with one another, and with rovers and other equipment.\n\nThe Mark III is a NASA prototype, constructed by ILC Dover, which incorporates a hard lower torso section and a mix of soft and hard components. The Mark III is markedly more mobile than previous suits, despite its high operating pressure (), which makes it a \"zero-prebreathe\" suit, meaning that astronauts would be able to transition directly from a one atmosphere, mixed-gas space station environment, such as that on the International Space Station, to the suit, without risking decompression sickness, which can occur with rapid depressurization from an atmosphere containing nitrogen or another inert gas.\n\nThe MX-2 is a space suit analogue constructed at the University of Maryland's Space Systems Laboratory. The MX-2 is used for manned neutral buoyancy testing at the Space Systems Lab's Neutral Buoyancy Research Facility. By approximating the work envelope of a real EVA suit, without meeting the requirements of a flight-rated suit, the MX-2 provides an inexpensive platform for EVA research, compared to using EMU suits at facilities like NASA's Neutral Buoyancy Laboratory.\n\nThe MX-2 has an operating pressure of 2.5–4 psi. It is a rear-entry suit, featuring a fiberglass HUT. Air, LCVG cooling water, and power are open loop systems, provided through an umbilical. The suit contains a Mac mini computer to capture sensor data, such as suit pressure, inlet and outlet air temperatures, and heart rate. Resizable suit elements and adjustable ballast allow the suit to accommodate subjects ranging in height from , and with a weight range of .\n\nBeginning in May 2006, five North Dakota colleges collaborated on a new space suit prototype, funded by a USD$100,000 grant from NASA, to demonstrate technologies which could be incorporated into a planetary suit. The suit was tested in the Theodore Roosevelt National Park badlands of western North Dakota. The suit has a mass of without a life support backpack, and costs only a fraction of the standard USD$12,000,000 cost for a flight-rated NASA space suit. The suit was developed in just over a year by students from the University of North Dakota, North Dakota State, Dickinson State, the state College of Science and Turtle Mountain Community College. The mobility of the North Dakota suit can be attributed to its low operating pressure; while the North Dakota suit was field tested at a pressure of differential, NASA's EMU suit operates at a pressure of , a pressure designed to supply approximately sea-level oxygen partial pressure for respiration (see discussion above).\n\nNASA's Prototype eXploration Suit (PXS), like the Z-series, is a rear-entry suit compatible with suitports. The suit has components which could be 3D printed during missions to a range of specifications, to fit different individuals or changing mobility requirements.\n\nIn February 2015, SpaceX began developing a space suit for astronauts to wear within the Dragon 2 space capsule. The first images of the suit were revealed in September 2017. A mannequin wore the SpaceX space suit during the maiden launch of the Falcon Heavy in February 2018. According to Musk, the SpaceX suit is intended for intravehicular activity use only (IVA type) meant to be worn inside a pressurized spacecraft. For this exhibition launch, the suit was not pressurized and carried no sensors.\n\nIn 2018, NASA commercial crew astronauts Bob Behnken, and Doug Hurley tested the spacesuit inside the Dragon 2 spacecraft in order to familiarize themselves with the suit.\n\nA suitport is a theoretical alternative to an airlock, designed for use in hazardous environments and in human spaceflight, especially planetary surface exploration. In a suitport system, a rear-entry space suit is attached and sealed against the outside of a spacecraft, such that an astronaut can enter and seal up the suit, then go on EVA, without the need for an airlock or depressurizing the spacecraft cabin. Suitports require less mass and volume than airlocks, provide dust mitigation, and prevent cross-contamination of the inside and outside environments. Patents for suitport designs were filed in 1996 by Philip Culbertson Jr. of NASA's Ames Research Center and in 2003 by Joerg Boettcher, Stephen Ransom, and Frank Steinsiek.\n\nIn 2012, NASA introduced the Z-1 space suit, the first in the Z-series of space suit prototypes designed by NASA specifically for planetary extravehicular activity. The Z-1 space suit includes an emphasis on mobility and protection for space missions. It features a soft torso versus the hard torsos seen in previous NASA EVA space suits, which provides reduced mass. It has been labeled the \"Buzz Lightyear suit\" due to its green streaks for a design.\n\nIn 2014, NASA released the design for the Z-2 prototype, the next model in the Z-series. NASA conducted a poll asking the public to decide on a design for the Z-2 space suit. The designs, created by fashion students from Philadelphia University, were \"Technology\", \"Trends in Society\", and \"Biomimicry.\" The design \"Technology\" won, and the prototype is built with technologies like 3D printing. The Z-2 suit will also differ from the Z-1 suit in that the torso reverts to the hard shell, as seen in NASA's EMU suit.\n\nThe earliest space fiction ignored the problems of traveling through a vacuum, and launched its heroes through space without any special protection. In the later 19th century, however, a more realistic brand of space fiction emerged, in which authors have tried to describe or depict the space suits worn by their characters. These fictional suits vary in appearance and technology, and range from the highly authentic to the utterly improbable.\n\nA very early fictional account of space suits can be seen in Garrett P. Serviss' novel \"Edison's Conquest of Mars\" (1898). Later comic book series such as Buck Rogers (1930s) and Dan Dare (1950s) also featured their own takes on space suit design. Science fiction authors such as Robert A. Heinlein contributed to the development of fictional space suit concepts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14184343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14184343", "title": "Tapan Sikdar", "text": "Tapan Sikdar\n\nTapan Sikdar (20 September 1944 – 2 June 2014) was a Union minister of state in the National Democratic Alliance government of India and a Bharatiya Janata Party politician. He was born on 20 September 1944 in Jessore. His father Dr.D.N. Sikdar was a physician. His mother’s name was Smt. Bela Rani Sikdar. He was member of 12 and 13 Lok Sabha representing Dum Dum (Lok Sabha constituency) in West Bengal.\n\nTapan Shikdar died on 2 June 2014 in Delhi, AIIMS due to respiratory problems.\n\n\nHe was Union Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (India). Later he was Union Minister of State, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers. He unsuccessfully contested the Dum Dum Lok Sabha constituency in the 2009 general election where the All India Trinamool Congress (an earlier National Democratic Alliance ally) candidate (who won and became the MP) got 458,988 votes whereas the Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidate got 438,510 votes) and he polled only 55,679 votes.\n\n"}
{"id": "18284475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18284475", "title": "Teresa Lalor", "text": "Teresa Lalor\n\nTeresa Lalor, V.H.M. (born ca. 1769, County Laois, Ireland; d. 9 September 1846, Washington, D.C.) was an Irish immigrant to the United States, and a nun, co-foundress, with the Most Rev. Leonard Neale, S.J., the second Archbishop of Baltimore, of the Visitation Order's first monastery in the United States.\n\nChristened Alice, she was born in County Laois, Ireland, the daughter of Denis and Catherine Lalor, but moved with her family to Ballyragget, Co Kilkenny as a child. Her childhood was spent in Ireland with her sisters. At her request, John Lanigan, the Roman Catholic Bishop of Ossory, made arrangements for her entrance into a convent of his diocese which her family opposed. She however, instead agreed to accompany her sister, Mrs. Doran and her husband, an American merchant to America, during the winter of 1794. They arrived in America on 5 January 1795.\n\nMoving to Philadelphia in 1797, she became acquainted with Fr. Neale, then the pastor of St. Joseph's Church in that city, and under his direction she devoted herself to works of piety and charity with a small group of associates. The group went on to open an academy for the instruction of girls.\n\nFr. Neale was transferred in 1799 from Philadelphia, to become President of Georgetown College; she and her associates, the widows Mrs. McDermot and Mrs. Sharpe, also went to Georgetown, D.C., and were for a time domiciled with a small community of Poor Clares, exiled from France. Neale purchased a house for Lalor and two companions to open a school of their own, a house which stood within the grounds of the later Georgetown Visitation Monastery, the oldest monastery of the Order in the U.S.\n\nThe group increased from three to five members. At this time, enclosure was only partially observed. They did their own shopping and marketing, went to church, and accompanied their students on daily walks. Sister Ignatia Sharpe died in the summer of 1802, after a long illness. In 1804 the Poor Clares were able to return to France, and Mother Lalor bought the house and land. They made corn bread from corn they raised, husked, and shelled before sending to the mill. a crrek which emptied into the Potomac crossed the property. The sisters cleaned, salted and put up their own fish. They had a fine vegetable garden. They also saved the parings and cores of apples, and by boiling these made a sweet drink to vary the meager fare.\n\nThe \"pious ladies\", as they were called, aspired to become Religious Sisters; Bishop Neale wished to affiliate them with the Visitation Order. The disturbed condition of affairs in Europe, due to the Napoleonic Wars, prevented this until 1816, when he obtained a grant from Pope Pius VII for the community to be considered as belonging to the Order of the Visitation. Mother Teresa and the two other Sisters were professed on the Feast of the Holy Innocents (December 28) of that same year, and became the first mother superior of the Georgetown monastery. She lived to see three other houses of the Institute founded, offshoots of the mother community: Mobile, Alabama in 1832; Kaskaskia (afterwards transferred to St. Louis), in 1833; and Baltimore, in 1837.\n\nShe died in 1846, aged around 77 years. Her remains, with those of Archbishop Neale, are interred in the crypt beneath the chapel of the monastery which they founded. She was a first cousin of Patrick \"Patt\" Lalor (1781-1856) (elected in 1832 as the first Catholic Member of Parliament for County Laois in two centuries) and of Joseph O'Lawlor (1768-1850), the Irish born Spanish general and military governor of Granada.\n\n"}
{"id": "12714295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12714295", "title": "The Last Legion", "text": "The Last Legion\n\nThe Last Legion is a 2007 action adventure film directed by Doug Lefler. Produced by Dino De Laurentiis and others, it is based on the 2002 novel of the same name written by Valerio Massimo Manfredi. It stars Colin Firth along with Sir Ben Kingsley and Aishwarya Rai, and premiered in Abu Dhabi on 6 April 2007.\n\nThe film is loosely inspired by the events of 5th-century European history, notably the collapse of the Western Roman Empire. This is coupled with other facts and legends from the history of Britain and fantastic elements from the legend of King Arthur to provide a basis for the Arthurian legend.\n\nThe film is narrated by Ambrosinus, native to Britain, who knows of a legend concerning the sword of Julius Caesar, which was hidden away from evil men. It begins shortly before the coronation of Romulus Augustulus as Emperor in AD 475.\n\nHaving travelled through much of the known world in search of Caesar's sword, Ambrosinus has then become the tutor to the young Romulus. A Druid and part of a secret brotherhood protecting the sword, he at times gives the impression he is a magician, but his \"magic\" is usually revealed to be simple trickery. One of the running concepts of the movie surrounds the question of whether or not Ambrosinus has any actual magical abilities or simply an illusionist. Romulus's father Orestes rules Rome but is not Emperor himself.\n\nOn the day before the coronation, Odoacer, commander of the barbarian Goths allied with Rome, demands a third of Italy from Orestes, but is rebuffed. The same day, Romulus meets the general of the Nova Invicta Legion, Aurelianus Caius Antonius, called \"Aurelius\".\n\nThe night after Romulus is crowned, Rome is attacked by the Goths. Most of Aurelius's men, pledged to protect the emperor, are killed, though Aurelius is only stunned and left for dead. Orestes and his wife are killed by Odoacer's lieutenant Wulfila, who captures Romulus.\n\nThe next day, Odoacer, now ruler of the Western Empire, plans to have Romulus killed. However, Ambrosinus convinces Odoacer to spare the boy. Instead, Romulus is exiled to Capri along with Ambrosinus, guarded by Wulfila and his men. His prison is a villa constructed more than four centuries earlier by the emperor Tiberius.\n\nWith Ambrosinus's help, Romulus discovers a hidden chamber within the villa. He comes across a statue of Caesar holding the fabled sword, forged by a Chalybian smith after his military campaigns in Britain. Writing near the statue's feet proclaims the sword was made for \"he who is destined to rule\". This is interpreted as a prophecy by various characters, and Romulus keeps the weapon.\n\nThe two are rescued from Capri by the loyal Aurelius and three surviving legionaries, Vatrenus, Batiatus, and Demetrius, accompanied by a female agent of the Eastern Roman Empire – an Indian warrior named Mira. They take Romulus to a seaport where the Eastern Roman Empire's emissary (whom Mira works for) and the senator Nestor have promised safe passage to Constantinople. However, they barely escape after they learn the Senate and the Eastern Empire have betrayed them and sided with Odoacer.\n\nAmbrosinus persuades Romulus to seek refuge in Britain, where the Ninth Legion (called the Dragon Legion) may remain loyal, being far from the events. They are followed by Wulfila and his men; the Goth covets Caesar's sword after learning the prophecy. Crossing the Alps and the English Channel, the party travels to Hadrian's Wall and initially find no evidence of the legion until a farmer approaches and reveals he was its commanding general. With the collapse of Roman support of Britain, the legion had decided to disband and settle as farmers. Most of the men in the legion had married and had families. They also did not want to antagonise the powerful warlord Vortgyn.\nDuring their stay in the small Celtic village, Romulus meets and befriends a young girl named Igraine. Aurelius and Mira practice swordfighting and become close to each other. Ambrosinus told Romulus of a scar on his chest, similar to the design on the sword hilt, which he received from Vortgyn after he refused to tell him where the sword of Caesar was.\n\nVortgyn also desires the sword of Caesar as he aspires to rule the whole of Britain. It is revealed that Vortgyn and Ambrosinus are old enemies. After meeting with the Goths, Vortgyn decides to either capture or kill Romulus as a gesture to Odoacer. After confronting Igraine outside of the village, he convinces her to tell everyone in the village to surrender Romulus and has several of his men kill the blacksmith's wife and sons. When a tearful Igraine tells the villagers of what has happened, Aurelius confesses that Romulus is the emperor of Rome. The blacksmith then demands revenge on his wife's and sons' deaths, and Aurelius and his men decide to lead an army to Hadrian's Wall to face Vortgyn's armies in one final battle.\n\nBefore leaving the village, Romulus receives from Igraine a suit of Roman armour which belonged to her brother, which he has since outgrown. Aurelius, wielding Caesar's sword, leads his men and a small number of Celtic warriors against Vortgyn's forces at Hadrian's Wall. Mira, Batiatus, Demetrius, Romulus, and the archers pelt the infantry with arrows, while Aurelius, Vatrenus, and several Celtic soldiers struggled to hold the charging enemy at the open gate. Despite their casualties, Vortgyn's soldiers began to slowly overwhelm the small force on the wall. The battle appears hopeless until the rest of the Ninth Legion, having taken up their old Roman arms and uniforms, appear on the nearby ridgeline, and turn the tide of battle. The two warring sides cease their hostilities upon sighting Ambrosinus holding aloft Vortgyn's golden mask, after confronting and burning him alive at a tree-sanctuary of his secret brotherhood close to the battlefield.\n\nAfter having fought and severely injured Aurelius, Wulfila is confronted by Romulus who is armed with Caesar's sword. Romulus stabs Wulfila in the chest, saying \"that's for my mother\", pauses, and further impales him, saying \"that's for my father\". He tells Aurelius that he fought like a dragon, whereupon Aurelius replies that Romulus fought like the son of a dragon.\n\nRepulsed by the deaths in the battle, Romulus heaves away his sword which remarkably pierces a large rock and becomes lodged there. Many years later, Ambrosinus, now known by his Druid name, Merlin, takes a young boy to the battlefield to describe the now legendary events. Merlin, who has visibly aged little since the battle, says that Aurelius married Mira and the two raised Romulus as their own son. He became a wise ruler, took the girl Igraine as his wife, and adopted the name \"Pendragon\". The boy, Arthur, recognises Romulus as his father and Igraine as his mother.\n\nIn a final scene, the sword of Julius Caesar is shown embedded in the stone, with moss growing on the blade, covering the original inscription, leaving only the Latin letters which, when read as a single word, read Excalibur.\n\n\nThe film's producers include Dino De Laurentiis, Martha, his second wife, and Raffaella, his daughter by his first wife. Raffaella suggested director Doug Lefler due to his work on \"\", which she produced. Filming took place in Tunisia and at Spiš Castle in eastern Slovakia in 2005.\n\nValerio Massimo Manfredi helped adapt his novel to the screen, also acting as historical consultant. In an interview he states at least four hours of footage was shot but ultimately shortened or cut, including scenes of the heroes' journey through the Alps and the English Channel.\n\nFor the role of Aurelius, executive producer Harvey Weinstein suggested Colin Firth, known for playing Fitzwilliam Darcy in \"Pride and Prejudice\" (1995) and more recently, Mark Darcy in the \"Bridget Jones\" films. Firth accepted the role due to the story, which he liked, and that it was very different from previous roles.\n\nThomas Sangster (Romulus) was one of the last to be cast. He had previously worked with Firth in \"Love Actually\" (2003) and \"Nanny McPhee\" (2006), and their familiarity with each other benefited both.\n\nSir Ben Kingsley was cast as Ambrosinus/Merlin after one meeting with Lefler. Kingsley was drawn to the mystique of the character, whom Lefler describes as a \"warrior shaman\". Kingsley also found the story interesting.\n\nAishwarya Rai was cast as Mira after the filmmakers decided \"somebody that had a rare beauty... who could move very well\", in Lefler's words, was ideal for the role. Lefler touted Rai's training in dance as an asset for her fight scenes. Like Firth, Rai took the role as a change of pace from her previous work.\n\nThe film's costumes were designed by Paolo Scalabrino, who had worked on \"Gangs of New York\" and \"Troy\".\n\nLefler wanted each character to have a unique fighting style. Richard Ryan served as the film's sword master, helping him plan the fight scenes; he had worked on \"Troy\" and would work on \"Stardust\" as such.\n\nThe film's score was composed by Patrick Doyle.\n\nThe film had a relatively poor reception by the public and critics. As of June 2010, the film had an average score of 37 out of 100 on Metacritic based on 12 reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes, 16% of critics gave the film positive reviews, based on 55 reviews (9 \"fresh\", 46 \"rotten\"). The site's consensus reads, \"With miscast leads and unoriginal, uninspired dialogue, \"The Last Legion\" pales in comparison to the recent cinematic epics it invokes.\"\n\nThe film departs from the novel in several ways; so much so that its credits state it to be \"based in part\" on the original.\n\nIn the novel, Aurelius (called \"Aurelianus Ambrosius Ventidius\") is a low-ranking officer and a legionary rather than a general, and his original legion, the Nova Invicta, is destroyed much earlier. The Nova Invicta Legion was known as the Emperor's Imperial Guard in the film, but in the novel it is a new legion formed by Flavius Orestes himself to defend the Western Roman Empire's frontiers from barbarian attacks.\n\nThe novel's band of heroes includes three surviving legionaries (Aurelius, Vatrenus and Batiatus), a Venetian warrior woman called Livia Prisca, and two Greek gladiators, Demetrius and Orosius. The film turns Livia into the Indian Mira, and Demetrius and Orosius into legionaries. While Demetrius remains a prominent supporting character, Orosius becomes an uncredited background extra.\n\nThe film alters the capital of the Western Empire from its historical location at Ravenna, as depicted in the novel, to Rome. By 460, Rome had not actually been the capital of the empire for nearly 200 years.\n\nIn the film, Romulus told his mother that \"during the last five years, there have been five emperors and all of them were murdered\". The five Roman Emperors Romulus mentioned were possibly Libius Severus (461–465), Anthemius (467–472), Olybrius (472), Glycerius (473–474), and Julius Nepos (474–475). While Libius Severus and Anthemius were in fact murdered by the Germanic-Roman general Ricimer, Olybrius died of an illness and both Glycerius and Nepos were deposed. Glycerius was forced to surrender to Nepos in 474, to which Nepos spared his life and sent him into exile possibly in Dalmatia. Nepos ruled over the Western Empire for thirteen months before he was deposed by the Roman commander Orestes and was forced to flee to Dalmatia.\n\nThe film depicts the coronation of Romulus (and subsequent fall of Rome) as having taken place in 460, while the novel gives the year as 476. In point of fact, coronations were not invented until later in the Roman Empire (in the Byzantine period). Historically, Romulus was a usurper proclaimed by his father in 475. It is believed he was born in 460. Romulus' reign was never recognised as emperor except by his father's troops. The emperors of the East continued to regard Julius Nepos, who had fled Italy and reestablished himself in Dalmatia in the face of a rebellion by Orestes, as the legitimate Western Emperor. Romulus was Emperor for ten months, not a single day as in the film.\n\nThe \"Last Legion\" in the novel is a fictional Twelfth Legion (\"Legio XII Draco\"), not the Ninth. While the Ninth is called the \"Dragon\" Legion as in the novel, it was the \"Hispanic\" Legion (\"Legio IX Hispana\") in real life. A Twelfth Legion did exist under different names, but not as \"Draco\".\n\nThe prophecy concerning Romulus is worded differently in the novel: it speaks of a youth with a sword who will bring peace and prosperity to Britain, and the \"eagle and the dragon\" flying once more over the land (Manfredi makes these the dying words of the soldier-bishop Germanus, whom he also makes the founder of the Dragon Legion).\n\nIn the film, Igraine, Kustennin's daughter and Romulus' love interest, has an older brother, whereas in the novel, she is an only child.\n\nIn the novel, Ambrosinus (full Roman name \"Meridius Ambrosinus\", originally known as \"Myrdin Emries\" in Britain, which later becomes \"Merlin\") is a Christian and yet also a Druid. This is left unclear in the film, where he mostly speaks in generic terms of \"truth\" and \"faith\"; one exception is when he tells Vortgyn (spelled \"Wortigern\" in the novel) to \"burn in Hell\". In deleted scenes he uses more pagan terms to his language.\n\nThe final battle is identified as the Battle of Badon Hill in the novel but not in the film. In the novel, the opposing forces are listed here:\n\n1. Aurelius Ambrosius Ventidius, Rufius Vatrenus, Cornelius Batiatus, Demetrius, Orosius, Livia Prisca, Romulus Augustulus, Ambrosinus, Kustennin, and the soldiers of the Twelfth Roman Legion(Legio XII Draco).\n\n2. Wufila and two hundred barbarian horsemen, plus a contingent of Saxon mercenaries.\n\nThe deaths of Vatrenus, Batiatus, Demetrius, and Orosius take place differently between the novel and the film. In the film, Vatrenus was killed by Eastern Roman soldiers while trying to protect Romulus and Batiatus was killed by Wufila during the Battle of Badon Hill, while Demetrius survived in the end (Orosius does not appear in the film). In the novel, Vatrenus, Demetrius, and Orosius were killed during the Battle of Badon Hill, while Batiatus survived.\n\nThe standard of the Dragon Legion is depicted as a bronze dragon with a red-and-white striped tail in the film. In the novel, the standard is a silver-headed, open-jawed dragon with a purple tail.\n\nOrestes, who was partly of Germanic blood, was historically the \"magister militum\" – the senior officer of the Roman army second to the emperor. He had indeed promised his Germanic foederati a third of Italy to settle in but not to Odoacer personally. Orestes was himself a usurper, having promised the land to foederati to buy their quiescence in his rebellion against the legitimate emperor Julius Nepos. Although Orestes proclaimed his son, Romulus Augustus (derisively called \"Augustulus\", meaning \"little Augustus\") Emperor, the proclamation was not recognised as legitimate beyond the parts of the Italian Peninsula controlled by Orestes' troops. The common identification of Augustus as the \"last Western Emperor\" dates only from the publication of British historian Edward Gibbon's History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire in the late 18th Century.\n\nAt the time of his proclamation as Emperor, Romulus Augustus was 16, older than portrayed in the film. Upon being captured by Odoacer, the boy usurper was seen to be a victim of his father. He was spared and sent to live in comfortable retirement in southern Italy.\n\nThere was a struggle for control of the Eastern Roman Empire at the time but the Emperor alluded to would probably have been Zeno (explicit in the novel). In truth, Zeno never recognised Romulus Augustus but recognised Julius Nepos as Emperor in the West until the latter's death in 480. At the behest of the Roman Senate, Zeno recognised Odoacer's administration of Italy; both he and Odoacer himself maintained the pretense of Nepos' reign. The Eastern Emperor eventually sent the Ostrogothic foederati under Theodoric the Great to depose Odoacer when the latter proved disloyal.\n\nThe uniforms and weapons of the Ninth Legion as depicted in the film reflect an earlier period of Roman history than the film is set in. By 460, Roman legionaries did not wear scarlet cloaks, nor did they carry the semi-circular shields of ancient times, and the short stabbing sword known as the gladius had been replaced, mostly by the spatha.\n\nMira's weapon, the Katar (कटार), had not been invented at the time in which the action is set. Katars came into use more than 1000 years later.\n\nA few of the castles and fortified cities in the film have round spires with pointed coned roofs, when in fact this style of buildings was not common until the late Middle Ages.\n\nDuring scenes in the film where people are shown riding horses one can clearly see stirrups, even though that kind of stirrup did not come into use in Europe until after 700 AD.\n\nThe Emperor Tiberius is referred to as \"the last of Julius Caesar's line\". Inconsistently, Romulus Augustulus is also depicted as the last of Julius Caesar's family line and Tiberius as one of his ancestors. Tiberius was actually the second of the five Julio-Claudian emperors, succeeding to the role of emperor as the adopted son of Augustus, who had himself been adopted by Julius Caesar. Augustus had named several of his own relatives as heirs, but as they all died, he named a son of his second wife, Livia, by her first marriage. Thus, Tiberius was not the last of any line established by Julius Caesar (Augustus' maternal great-uncle by blood) as he had no blood relation to Caesar at all. His successors, Caligula and Claudius were blood relatives of Julius Caesar through a maternal blood line dating back to Augustus's older sister, Octavia. Nero, a direct descendant of Augustus, ruled roughly twenty years after the death of Tiberius and was the final emperor of the Julio-Claudian Dynasty, thus making him the last ruler descended from Julius Caesar's family – the Julii.\n\nIn the film it is implied that Romulus' descent from Caesar's family is through his (unnamed) mother (which is presumably why Orestes cannot be Emperor himself). Historically, nothing is known about Romulus's mother, but the Julii had been extinct for more than 400 years before Romulus was born. The use of the title \"Caesar\" is also inaccurate. By the fifth century the title was generally used to refer to the designated heir, not an actual emperor or co-emperor, who bore the grander title of \"Augustus\", all the way through to the final collapse of the East Roman (Byzantine) Empire in 1453.\n\nThe clear implication in the film is that the Imperial office was hereditary, which was never the case from the tentative establishment of the position of Emperor under Augustus down through the death of the last Roman Emperor, Constantine XI, during the Fall of Constantinople in 1453. Emperors were proclaimed by the Senate, the people, or the army. They often associated their offspring as their junior partners or chosen successors, but there was nothing automatic about it. \"Legitimacy,\" by the fifth century, meant official recognition by the co-emperor, which Romulus Augustus never had.\n\nThe film portrays the fugitives as having no chance to find loyalists except in Britain, the whole of the West otherwise in Odoacer's hands. In fact, Odoacer's rule did not extend beyond the Italian Peninsula. Across the Adriatic in Dalmatia Emperor Julius Nepos still ruled; with the Eastern Empire stretching beyond. Across Northern France, Roman legions cut off from Italy in the area historians now call the Domain of Soissons remained opposed to Odoacer. In barbarian-ravaged Hispania, Roman writ still ran in the major cities, and in what is now Morocco, local Berber leaders continued to regard themselves as loyal vassals. Although the real usurper Romulus Augustus could not expect to find help in any of these places, he could have found safe haven if he required it. Certainly they would have been more promising than late fifth century Britain, the Roman legions having departed the island for the continent in 407, more than half a century before the action of the film.\n\nThe film uses the premise of the missing Ninth Legion still existing somewhere in Britain at this time, a once popular idea among British historians. The Ninth Legion disappears from Roman records from about 120 AD, and what happened to it is not known; however, it certainly was no longer in existence by the mid-2nd century, long before this movie is set.\n\nEven if the Ninth had gone missing in the province, it is highly unlikely to have reappeared and continued in existence as a military force for the three centuries between AD 117 and 460, undocumented by the otherwise thorough Roman administration.\n\nThe film shows King Arthur as a descendant of the last Roman imperial line. In \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" Arthur claims descent from Constantine and is crowned Roman Emperor after defeating its (fictional) ruler, Lucius Tiberius.\n\nAurelius is a fictionalised version of the historical war leader Ambrosius Aurelianus, also known as Aurelius Ambrosius, who led the Romano-British against the invading Saxons. He was said by Geoffrey of Monmouth to have been the brother of Arthur's father Uther Pendragon, and to have opposed Vortigern alongside his brother.\n\nIn Geoffrey of Monmouth's pseudohistorical work \"The History of the Kings of Britain\" (\"Historia Regum Britanniae\"), Merlin, originally a figure unconnected with Arthur, is called \"Merlin Ambrosius\" after Geoffrey merged legends of Aurelius Ambrosius into the character. \"Ambrosius\" becomes \"Ambrosinus\" in the film. In the novel, Merlin's original British name Myrdin Emries is directly taken from Welsh versions of the tales.\n\nVortgyn's death by fire in a burning tree shelter/shrine echoes the legendary Vortigern's death, as according to Geoffrey of Monmouth the latter died in his tower when it was set aflame.\n\nOne of the movie's taglines is \"Before King Arthur, there was Excalibur\". The last shots of the film establish the sword of Caesar as the legendary blade (also the Sword in the Stone, originally a different weapon). A supernaturally powerful sword of Caesar's called Crocea Mors (\"Yellow Death\"), was supposed to have been buried in Britain with the body of Nennius of Britain, according to Geoffrey of Monmouth. The film merges this myth with that of Excalibur.\n\nThe word Excalibur comes from the Old French \"Escalibor\" which is itself a corruption of \"Caliburnus\" or \"Caliburn\". The name \"Caliburn\" is often held to be Geoffrey of Monmouth's Latinized form of the original Welsh \"Caledfwlch\", which combines the elements ' (\"hard\"), and ' (\"breach, gap, notch\"). Manfredi espouses an alternative theory wherein \"Caliburn\" derives from Latin \"chalybs\" \"steel\", which is in turn derived from \"Chalybes\", the name of an Anatolian ironworking tribe.\n\nThe sword in the film bears the inscription CAI • IVL • CAES • ENSIS CALIBVRNVS. The characters \"CAI. IVL. CAES.\" are an abbreviated form of \"Caius\" (or Gaius) \"Julius Caesar\". Manfredi loosely translates \"ensis caliburnus\" as \"sword of steel\". \"Ensis\" is one of the Latin words for \"sword\". While in reality Geoffrey of Monmouth's Latinization \"Caliburn\" eventually developed into the form \"Excalibur\", the film explains the origin of the name \"Excalibur\" by having the inscription obscured by moss; the remaining letters spell out E S CALIBVR.\n\nThe film has similarities to \"King Arthur\" (2004). Both are set in Britain after the Romans left, and as Valerio Massimo Manfredi states, both feature a band of heroes escorting a boy of special status and a battle set at Hadrian's Wall. Kevin McKidd who appears in \"The Last Legion\" co-stars as Lucius Vorenus in the HBO drama series \"Rome\" with Ray Stevenson as Titus Pullo who had a supporting role in \"King Arthur\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30864758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30864758", "title": "Theory of functional systems", "text": "Theory of functional systems\n\nTheory of functional systems - is a model that describes the structure of conduct, which was established by Russian and Soviet biologist and physiologist Pyotr Anokhin.\nFunctional systems were put forward by Anokhin as an alternative to the predominant concept of reflexes. Contrary to reflexes, the endpoints of functional systems are not actions themselves but \"adaptive results of these actions\". In contrast to reflexes, which are based on \"linear spread of information\" from receptors to executive organs through the central nervous system, functional systems are self-organizing non-linear systems composed of synchronized distributed elements.\n\n\"The principle of functional systems\" - association of private mechanisms of the body in a holistic system of adaptive behavioral act, the establishment of \"integrative unity\". \n\nThere are two types of functional systems: \n\n\nChoice of targets and methods of achieving them are the key factors that regulate behavior. According to Anokhin, in the structure of the behavioral act afferent feedback compared with the acceptor of the result gives a positive or negative \"situational\" emotions affect the correction or termination of action (another type of emotion, \"leading\" emotions, are associated with satisfaction or dissatisfaction needs in general, with the formation of the target). In addition, the behavior affect the memories of positive and negative emotions. \n\nIn general, behavioral act is characterized by meaningful and active role of the subject. \n"}
{"id": "61553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61553", "title": "Tree fern", "text": "Tree fern\n\nThe tree ferns are the ferns that grow with a trunk elevating the fronds above ground level. Most tree ferns are members of the \"core tree ferns\", belonging to the families Dicksoniaceae, Metaxyaceae, and Cibotiaceae in the order Cyatheales. \n\nIn addition to those families, many ferns in other groups may be considered tree ferns, such as several ferns in the family Osmundaceae, which can achieve short trunks under a metre tall, and particularly ferns in the genus \"Cibotium\", which can grow ten metres tall. Fern species with short trunks in the genera \"Blechnum, Calochleana, Cnemedaria, Culcita\" (Europe's only tree fern), \"Cystodium\", \"Leptopteris\", \"Lophosoria\", \"Sadleria\", \"Thyrsopteris\" and \"Todea\" could also be considered tree ferns in a liberal interpretation of the term.\n\nTree ferns are found growing in tropical and subtropical areas, including cool to temperate rainforests in Australia, New Zealand and neighbouring regions (e.g. Malaysia, Lord Howe Island, etc.). Like all ferns, tree ferns reproduce by means of spores formed on the undersides of the fronds.\n\nThe fronds of tree ferns are usually very large and multiple-pinnate. Tree ferns do not form new woody tissue in their trunk as they grow. Rather, the trunk is supported by a fibrous mass of roots that expands as the tree fern grows. If the crown of \"Dicksonia antarctica\" (the most common species in gardens) is damaged, it will inevitably die because that is where all the new growth occurs. But other clump-forming tree fern species, such as \"D. squarrosa\" and \"D. youngiae\", can regenerate from basal offsets or from \"pups\" emerging along the surviving trunk length. Tree ferns often fall over in the wild, yet manage to re-root from this new prostrate position and begin new vertical growth.\n\nIt is not certain the exact number of species of tree ferns there are, but it may be closer to 600-700 species. Many species have become extinct in the last century as forest habitats have come under pressure from human intervention.\n\nLocation of species\n\n\"Lophosoria\" (tropical America ,1 species)\n\n\"Metaxya\" (tropical America, 1 species)\n\n\"Sphaeropteris\" (tropical America, India, southeastern Asia to New Zealand, the Marquesas, and Pitcairn Island, about 120 species)\n\n\"Alsophila\" (pantropic area, about 230 species)\n\n\"Nephelea\" (tropical America, about 30 species)\n\n\"Trichipteris\" (tropical America, about 90 species)\n\n\"Cyathea\" (tropical America, about 110 species)\n\n\"Cnemidaria\" (tropical America, about 40 species)\n\n\"Dicksonia\" (tropics and southern subtropics in Malaysia, Australasia, America, Hawaii, St. Helena, about 25 species)\n\n\"Cystodium\" (Malaysia, 1 species)\n\n\"Thyrsopteris\" (Juan Fernandez, 1 species)\n\n\"Culcita\" (tropical America, Azores, Malaysia, Australasia, about 7 species)\n\n\"Cibotium\" (Southeast Asia, Malaysia, Hawaii, Central America, about 12 species)\n\n"}
{"id": "404773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404773", "title": "Trefoil knot", "text": "Trefoil knot\n\nIn knot theory, a branch of mathematics, the trefoil knot is the simplest example of a nontrivial knot. The trefoil can be obtained by joining together the two loose ends of a common overhand knot, resulting in a knotted loop. As the simplest knot, the trefoil is fundamental to the study of mathematical knot theory.\n\nThe trefoil knot is named after the three-leaf clover (or trefoil) plant.\n\nThe trefoil knot can be defined as the curve obtained from the following parametric equations:\n\nThe (2,3)-torus knot is also a trefoil knot. The following parametric equations give a (2,3)-torus knot lying on torus formula_4:\n\nAny continuous deformation of the curve above is also considered a trefoil knot. Specifically, any curve isotopic to a trefoil knot is also considered to be a trefoil. In addition, the mirror image of a trefoil knot is also considered to be a trefoil. In topology and knot theory, the trefoil is usually defined using a knot diagram instead of an explicit parametric equation.\n\nIn algebraic geometry, the trefoil can also be obtained as the intersection in C of the unit 3-sphere \"S\" with the complex plane curve of zeroes of the complex polynomial \"z\" + \"w\" (a cuspidal cubic).\n\nIf one end of a tape or belt is turned over three times and then pasted to the other, the edge forms a trefoil knot.\n\nThe trefoil knot is chiral, in the sense that a trefoil knot can be distinguished from its own mirror image. The two resulting variants are known as the left-handed trefoil and the right-handed trefoil. It is not possible to deform a left-handed trefoil continuously into a right-handed trefoil, or vice versa. (That is, the two trefoils are not ambient isotopic.)\n\nThough chiral, the trefoil knot is also invertible, meaning that there is no distinction between a counterclockwise-oriented and a clockwise-oriented trefoil. That is, the chirality of a trefoil depends only on the over and under crossings, not the orientation of the curve.\n\nThe trefoil knot is nontrivial, meaning that it is not possible to \"untie\" a trefoil knot in three dimensions without cutting it. Mathematically, this means that a trefoil knot is not isotopic to the unknot. In particular, there is no sequence of Reidemeister moves that will untie a trefoil.\n\nProving this requires the construction of a knot invariant that distinguishes the trefoil from the unknot. The simplest such invariant is tricolorability: the trefoil is tricolorable, but the unknot is not. In addition, virtually every major knot polynomial distinguishes the trefoil from an unknot, as do most other strong knot invariants.\n\nIn knot theory, the trefoil is the first nontrivial knot, and is the only knot with crossing number three. It is a prime knot, and is listed as 3 in the Alexander-Briggs notation. The Dowker notation for the trefoil is 4 6 2, and the Conway notation is [3].\n\nThe trefoil can be described as the (2,3)-torus knot. It is also the knot obtained by closing the braid σ.\n\nThe trefoil is an alternating knot. However, it is not a slice knot, meaning it does not bind a smooth 2-dimensional disk in the 4-dimensional ball; one way to prove this is to note that its signature is not zero. Another proof is that its Alexander polynomial does not satisfy the Fox-Milnor condition.\n\nThe trefoil is a fibered knot, meaning that its complement in formula_8 is a fiber bundle over the circle formula_9. In the model of the trefoil as the set of pairs formula_10 of complex numbers such that formula_11 and formula_12, this fiber bundle has the Milnor map formula_13 as its fibration, and a once-punctured torus as its fiber surface. Since the knot complement is Seifert fibred with boundary, it has a horizontal incompressible surface—this is also the fiber of the Milnor map.\n\nThe Alexander polynomial of the trefoil knot is\nand the Conway polynomial is\nThe Jones polynomial is\nand the Kauffman polynomial of the trefoil is\nThe HOMFLY polynomial of the trefoil is\nThe knot group of the trefoil is given by the presentation\nor equivalently\nThis group is isomorphic to the braid group with three strands.\n\nAs the simplest nontrivial knot, the trefoil is a common motif in iconography and the visual arts. For example, the common form of the triquetra symbol is a trefoil, as are some versions of the Germanic Valknut.\nIn modern art, the woodcut \"Knots\" by M. C. Escher depicts three trefoil knots whose solid forms are twisted in different ways.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54374612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54374612", "title": "Turing's Wager", "text": "Turing's Wager\n\nTuring's Wager is a philosophical argument that claims it is impossible to infer or deduce a detailed mathematical model of the human brain within a reasonable timescale, and thus impossible in any practical sense. The argument was first given in 1950 by the computational theorist Alan Turing in his paper \"Computing Machinery and Intelligence\", published in Mind . The argument asserts that determining any mathematical model of a computer (its source code or any isomorphic equivalent such as a Turing machine or virtual simulation) is not possible in a reasonable timeframe. As a consequence, determining a mathematical model of the human brain (which is, by its nature, more complicated) must also be impossible within that timeframe.\n\nIt has been argued that modern neuroimaging techniques will allow researchers to create accurate simulations of the human mind within the 21st century (; , ), thereby overcoming the wager. Others have argued that such claims are unjustified .\n\nThe Turing Test attempts to define when a machine might be said to possess human intelligence, while Turing’s Wager is an argument aiming to demonstrate that characterising the brain mathematically will take over a thousand years. While building an artificial intelligence and mapping the human brain are both difficult endeavours, the former is actually a sub-problem of the latter .\n"}
{"id": "47876952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47876952", "title": "UCLA PTSD Index", "text": "UCLA PTSD Index\n\nThe University of California at Los Angeles Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Reaction Index for DSM-5 (abbreviated as the UCLA PTSD-RI) is a psychiatric assessment tool used to assess symptoms of PTSD in children, adolescents, and young adults. This assessment battery includes four measures: the Child/Adolescent Self-Report version; the Parent/Caregiver Report version; the Parent/Caregiver Report version for Children Age 6 and Younger; and a Brief Screen for Trauma and PTSD. Questions may differ among the indexes depending on the target age, however the indexes are identical in format. The target age groups for this assessment are children, adolescents, and young adults between 7-18 and children age 6 and younger. Versions of the UCLA PTSD Reaction Index for DSM-5 have been translated into many languages, including Spanish, Japanese, Simplified Chinese, Korean, German, and Arabic. The DSM-IV version of the UCLA PTSD Reaction Index Index has been updated for DSM-5.\n\nThis assessment has evolved since its development in 1985 to include changes made to DSM criteria and to allow for efficiency in assessment. In 1985, Calvin Fredrick worked with the UCLA Trauma Psychiatry Program to develop a measure to screen for PTSD in children and adolescents based on DSM criteria—the UCLA PTSD Reaction Index. This index had 16 \"yes\" or \"no\" items. The first major use of this index was used to assess PTSD reactions in elementary school students following a sniper attack on the school. Following the publication of DSM-III, the measure was updated to DSM-III-R version to account for the updated diagnostic criteria of PTSD. This version had 20 items scored on a Likert Scale. The UCLA PTSD Index for DSM-IV is a revised version of the DSM-III-R that reflects the modified diagnostic criteria in the DSM-IV. In the DSM-IV version, child, parent, and adolescent forms and subsequent scoring sheets were developed. The child and adolescent forms were revised to reflect language tailored to children and adolescents in order to combine the child and adolescent forms into one form. The full UCLA PTSD Index was used by the New York State office of Mental health in the Child and Adolescent Treatment Service Programs for children and adolescents affected by the September 11, 2001 attacks in New York City.\n\nIn addition, this the assessment has also been proven to be useful across different cultures and in different countries. As a result, it has been translated into many different languages to be administered to children and adolescents that have experienced severe tragedies, such as mass shootings, natural disasters, and terrorism. The assessment was used in Nigeria to measure PTSD in victims of ethno-religious violence. Study found that the UCLA PTSD reaction index was an adequate measure to be used to screen for symptoms of PTSD in children and adolescents in Nigeria. In addition, a study has shown the UCLA PTSD reaction index to be a valid and reliable way of assessing PTSD symptoms in adolescent refugees from Somalia.\n\nEach index is composed of several parts. The first section is a comprehensive list of trauma types and asks the respondent to indicate which trauma types from the list they have experienced. It screens for lifetime trauma, allowing for trauma exposure to be categorized into multiple categories. Once the trauma exposure(S) has been categorized and identified, a follow up section asks about trauma specific details and the age(s) over which the trauma was experienced. The symptom scale maps directly on to DSM-5 PTSD symptom criteria and asks the respondent how many days in the past month they experienced each symptom using a Likert scale ranging from 0 (None) to 4 (Most of the time). The final section includes questions regard the extent to which symptoms cause clinically significant distress and interfere with behavior, functioning, and development.\n\nReports on psychometric properties for the PTSD index have shown high test-retest reliability and validity, with no significant differences in scores between racial/ethnic groups. Screening results from this index are consistent with the results from other PTSD symptom instruments (PTSD Checklist, PTSD Symptom Scale, and Harvard Trauma Questionnaire).\n\nIn order to accommodate the changes to the PTSD criteria in the DSM-5, the updated UCLA PTSD index contains 11 new questions that cover the 20 DSM-5 criteria for diagnosis. Questions for Criteria B remained the same. Criteria D was changed to address negative cognitions and mood, and items addressing those symptoms that were formerly in Criteria C were moved to this criteria, leaving only two questions addressing avoidance symptoms in Criteria C. In addition, three questions were added to Criteria D. Finally, questions regarding increased arousal were moved to a new Criteria E, which was expanded by one item. The scoring algorithm (and scoring software) for the UCLA PTSD Reaction Index for DSM-5 allows for a determination of whether criteria for PTSD and for Dissociative Subtype are met. The UCLA PTSD Reaction Index for DSM-5 is available at: www.reactionindex.com. \n\n"}
{"id": "191336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191336", "title": "Virtual economy", "text": "Virtual economy\n\nA virtual economy (or sometimes synthetic economy) is an emergent economy existing in a virtual world, usually exchanging virtual goods in the context of an Internet game. People enter these virtual economies for recreation and entertainment rather than necessity, which means that virtual economies lack the aspects of a real economy that are not considered to be \"fun\" (for instance, avatars in a virtual economy often do not need to buy food in order to survive, and usually do not have any biological needs at all). However, some people do interact with virtual economies for \"real\" economic benefit.\n\nDespite primarily dealing with in-game currencies, this term also encompasses the selling of virtual currency for real money.\n\nVirtual economies are observed in MUDs and massively multi player online role-playing games (MMORPGs). The largest virtual economies are found in MMORPGs. Virtual economies also exist in life simulation games which may have taken the most radical steps toward linking a virtual economy with the real world. This can be seen, for example, in Second Life's recognition of intellectual property rights for assets created \"in-world\" by subscribers, and its laissez-faire policy on the buying and selling of Linden Dollars (the world's official currency) for real money on third party websites. Virtual economies can also exist in browser-based Internet games where \"real\" money can be spent and user-created shops opened, or as a kind of emergent gameplay.\n\nVirtual property is a label that can refer to any resource that is controlled by the powers-that-be, including virtual objects, avatars, or user accounts. The following characteristics may be found in virtual resources in mimicry of tangible property. Note however that it is possible for virtual resources to lack one or more of these characteristics, and they should be interpreted with reasonable flexibility.\n\nThe existence of these conditions create an economic system with properties similar to those seen in contemporary economies. Therefore, economic theory can often be used to study these virtual worlds.\n\nWithin the virtual worlds they inhabit, synthetic economies allow in-game items to be priced according to supply and demand rather than by the developer's estimate of the item's utility. These emergent economies are considered by most players to be an asset of the game, giving an extra dimension of reality to play. In classical synthetic economies, these goods were charged only for in-game currencies. These currencies are often sold for real world profit.\n\nThe release of Blizzard Entertainment's World of Warcraft in 2004 and its subsequent huge success across the globe has forced both MMORPGs and their secondary markets into mainstream consciousness, and many new market places have opened up during this time. A search for WoW Gold on Google will show a multitude of sites (more than 90 sponsored results ) from which Gold can be purchased. Real money commerce in a virtual market has grown to become a multibillion-dollar industry. In 2001, EverQuest players Brock Pierce and Alan Debonneville founded \"Internet Gaming Entertainment Ltd (IGE)\", a company that offered not only the virtual commodities in exchange for real money but also provided professional customer service. \"IGE\" had a trained staff that would handle financial issues, customer inquiries and technical support to ensure that gamers are satisfied with each real money purchase. It also took advantage of the global reach of synthetic worlds by setting up a shop in Hong Kong where a small army of technically savvy but low wage workers could field orders, load up avatars, retrieve store goods and deliver them wherever necessary. This lucrative market has opened a whole new type of economy where the border between the real and the virtual is obscure.\n\nHundreds of companies are enormously successful in this new found market, with some virtual items being sold for hundreds or even thousands of dollars. Some of these companies sell multiple virtual goods for multiple games, and others sell services for single games. Virtual real estate is earning real world money, with people like 43-year-old \"Wonder Bread\" deliveryman, John Dugger, purchasing a virtual real estate for $750, setting him back more than a weeks wages. This virtual property includes nine rooms, three stories, rooftop patio, wall of solid stonework in a prime location, nestled at the foot of a quiet coastal hillside. Dugger represents a group of gamers that are not in the market for a real house but instead to own a small piece of the vast computer database that was Ultima Online, the mythical world in which the venerable MMO Ultima Online unfolds. Such trading of real money for virtual goods simply represents the development of virtual economies where people come together where the real and the synthetic worlds are meeting within an economic sphere.\n\nAlthough virtual markets may represent a growth area, it is unclear to what extent they can scale to supporting large numbers of businesses, due to the inherent substitutability of goods on these markets plus the lack of factors such as location to dispense demand. In spite of numerous famed examples of the economic growth of Second Life an amateur analyst in 2008 estimated the income inequity in Second Life's economy as worse than has ever been recorded in any real economy: a Gini coefficient of 90.2, a Hoover index of 77.8, and a Theil index of 91%. However, the application of these economic measures to a virtual world may be inappropriate where poverty is merely virtual and there is a direct relationship between in-game wealth and time spent playing.\n\nThe global secondary market - defined as real money trading between players - turnover was estimated at 880 million dollars in 2005 by the president of the, at the time, market leading company IGE. Before that, in 2004, the American economist Edward Castronova had estimated the turnover at over 100 million dollars based solely on sales figures from the two auction sites eBay and the Korean itemBay. A speculative extrapolation based on these quotes and other industry figures produced a global turnover figure of 2 billion dollars as of 2007.\n\nHowever, the secondary market is unlikely to have followed the growth of the primary market since 2007 seeing as game companies have become better at monetizing on their games with microtransactions and many popular games such as World of Warcraft are sporting increased measures against player to player real money trading. Also hampering the turnover growth are the extreme price drops that has followed the increased competition from businesses in mainland China targeting the global secondary market. Furthermore, the global decline in consumption that followed the financial crisis of 2007–2008 would have affected the secondary market negatively as well. Post 2007 secondary market growth is likely localized to emerging markets such as Russia, eastern Europe, South America, and South East Asia - all of which are relatively inaccessible to international merchants due to payment systems, advertisement channels and language barrier. For example, South Korea is estimated to have the biggest share of the global real money trading market and it has there become an officially acknowledged and taxable part of the economy. In western countries the secondary market remains a black market with little to no social acceptance or official acknowledgement.\n\nAs for an actual economic model, secondary market turnover in popular player vs player oriented MMORPGs without trade restrictions such as Runescape, EVE Online and Ultima Online has been estimated at around 1.1 dollar per concurrent player and day. No model for more regulated MMORPGs such as World of Warcraft has been suggested. However, being a largely unregulated market and tax free market, any turnover figure or economic model remain speculative.\n\nAn example of a much more controlled market is \"World of Tanks\"' \"gold\", a virtual currency which is only available from the vendor itself and typically only for cash payment. This has become a model for other freemium games. It does not allow for any vending of game goods or capabilities without the permission and direct participation and control of the game server/operator/vendor.\n\nIn this model, players are strictly forbidden from employing means or methods of maximizing gold availability (for instance bonuses for new accounts which are then shared). They can gift gold to each other but cannot solicit or ask for it. Gold sharing among game guilds is common and encouraged, but not among players who don't know each other for specific benefits. For instance, vehicles cannot be bought and sold within the game except to the server, for a fixed price ratio (selling earns back half the price paid).\n\nInformation brokerages and other tools that aid in the valuation of virtual items on secondary markets have increased in number. This has occurred as a response to alleviate the labor involved in leveling that requires hours, days or weeks to achieve. Being able to exchange real money for virtual currency provides the player purchasing power for virtual commodities. As such, players are guaranteed opportunities, increased skills and a fine reputation, which is a definite advantage over others.\n\nMost scholars agree that the sale of virtual property for real currency or assets is taxable. However, there are significant legal and practical challenges to the taxation of income from the sale of virtual property. For example, uncertainty regarding the nature and conceptual location of virtual property makes it difficult to collect and apportion tax revenue when a sale occurs across multiple jurisdictions.\n\nIn addition to taxing income from transactions involving real currency or assets, there has been considerable discussion involving the taxation of transactions that take place entirely within a virtual economy. Theoretically, virtual world transactions could be treated as a form of barter, thus generating taxable income. However, for policy reasons, many commentators support some form of a \"cash out\" rule that would prevent in-game transactions from generating tax liabilities. Nevertheless, as one commentator notes, \"the easier it is to buy real goods with virtual currency (e.g. order a real life pizza) the more likely the IRS will see exclusively in-world profits as taxable.\"\n\nConversion between in-game and real-world currency has led to direct comparisons with other online \"games of chance\" as 'virtual winnings'. This is why gamers and companies engaged in this conversion, where it is permitted by a game, may fall under gambling legislation.\n\nDuring an interview with Virtual World News, Alex Chapman of the British law firm Campbell Hooper stated: \"Now we’ve spoken with the gambling commission, and they’ve said that MMOGs aren’t the reason for the , but they won’t say outright, and we’ve asked directly, that they won’t be covered. You can see how these would be ignored at first, but very soon they could be in trouble. It’s a risk, but a very easy risk to avoid.\" He suggested that compliance might require MMOGs and related traders to obtain a gambling license, which is not excessively difficult in the EU.\n\nWhen queried about games where real-world transactions for in-game assets are \"not\" permitted, but there is an 'unofficial secondary market', Chapman responded: \"Ultimately the point is whether the thing that you win has value in money or money’s worth. If it does have value, it could be gambling.\" So to avoid regulation by these laws, the \"operator would need to take reasonable steps to ensure that the rewards they give do not have a monetary value[,]\" possibly by demonstrating enforcement of their Terms of Service prohibiting secondary markets.\n\nMonetary issues can give a virtual world problems similar to those in the real world. In South Korea, where the number of video game players is massive, some have reported the emergence of gangs and mafia, where powerful players would threaten beginners to give money for their \"protection\", and actually steal and rob.\n\nOther similar problems arise in other virtual economies. In the game \"The Sims Online,\" a 17-year-old boy going by the in-game name \"Evangeline\" was discovered to have built a cyber-brothel, where customers would pay sim-money for minutes of cybersex. Maxis canceled each of his accounts, but had he deposited his fortune in the Gaming Open Market he would have been able to keep a part of it.\n\nA 2007 virtual heist has led to calls from some community members in \"Second Life\" to bring in external regulation of these markets: \"In late July, a perpetrator with privileged information cracked a stock exchange's computers, made false deposits, then ran off with what appears to be the equivalent of US$10,000, disappearing into thin air. This heist left investors feeling outraged and vulnerable.\"\n\nIn \"EVE Online\" however, theft and scamming other players is perfectly allowed within the game's framework as long as no real world trading is committed. Players are allowed to loot all items from fallen victims in battle, but there is a disincentive in the form of NPC police intervention in higher-security space. Virtual possessions valued in the tens of thousands of USD have been destroyed or plundered through corporate espionage and piracy. This has resulted in widespread retributive warfare and crime between various player corporations.\n\nMany MMORPGS such as \"RuneScape\", \"World of Warcraft\", \"Guild Wars\", \"Warhammer Online\", \"Lord of the Rings Online\" and \"Final Fantasy XI\" strictly prohibit buying gold, items, or any other product linked with the game, with real world cash. \"RuneScape\" went as far as making this practice impossible by removing unbalanced trades and their traditional player vs. player fighting system (this was scrapped on February 1, 2011 after having been in place for 3 years), resulting in over 60,000 cancelled subscriptions in protest. \"Final Fantasy XI\" and \"Warhammer Online\" both have entire task forces dedicated to the removal of real money trading from the game. To control real money trading, \"EVE Online\" created an official and sanctioned method to convert real world cash to in-game currency; players can use real world money to buy a specific in-game item which can be redeemed for account subscription time or traded on the in-game market for in-game currency.\n\nFor a persistent world to maintain a stable economy, a balance must be struck between currency sources and sinks. Generally, games possess numerous sources of new currency for players to earn. However, some possess no effective \"sinks\", or methods of removing currency from circulation. If other factors remain constant, greater currency supply weakens the buying power of a given amount; a process known as inflation. In practice, this results in constantly rising prices for traded commodities. With the proper balance of growth in player base, currency sources, and sinks, a virtual economy could remain stable indefinitely.\n\nAs in the real world, actions by players can destabilize the economy. Gold farming creates resources within the game more rapidly than usual, exacerbating inflation. In extreme cases, a cracker may be able to exploit the system and create a large amount of money. This could result in hyperinflation.\n\nIn the real world entire institutions are devoted to maintaining desired level of inflation. This difficult task is a serious issue for serious MMORPG's, that often have to cope with mudflation. Episodes of hyperinflation have also been observed.\n\nIn these virtual economies, the value of in-game resources is frequently tied to the in-game power they confer upon the owner. This power allows the user, usually, to acquire more rare and valuable items. In this regard, in-game resources are not just tradable objects but can play the role of \"capital\".\n\nPlayers also acquire human capital as they become more powerful. Powerful guilds often recruit powerful players so that certain players can acquire better items which can only be acquired by the cooperation among many players.\n\nVirtual economies have also been said to exist in the \"metagame\" worlds of live-action role-playing games and collectible card games. Other \"metagame\" currencies have cropped up in games such as \"Everquest\" and \"World of Warcraft\". Dragon kill points or DKP are a semi-formal score-keeping system used by guilds in massively multiplayer online games. Players in these games are faced with large scale challenges, or raids, which may only be surmounted through the concerted effort of dozens of players at a time. Dragon kill points are not official currencies, but are created and managed by endgame guilds to manage distributions of rewards in those raids.\n\nVirtual economies represented not only in mmorpg genre but also in online business simulation games (Virtonomics, Miniconomy). Simplified economy represented in almost all real-time strategies (, Red alert 2) in a form of gathering and spending resources. Diablo III has its virtual economy as well which is represented by online game auction.\n\nOn a number of discussion and networking sites, such as Slashdot, Reddit, care2 and Yahoo! Answers, points are gained through the garnering of trust evidenced in upward moderations of posted content; however, as stated by Slashdot co-founder CmdrTaco, his implementation of user moderation was not intended as a currency, even though it has evolved on other discussion-oriented sites into such a system. On some such sites, the accumulation of \"karma points\" can be redeemed in various ways for virtual services or objects, while most other sites do not contain a redemption system.\n\nOn some sites, points are gained for inviting new users to the site.\n\nA game's synthetic economy often results in interaction with a \"real\" economy; characters, currency, and items may be sold and bought on online auction websites or purchased from standalone webshops. Since January 2007 users are no longer allowed to sell virtual goods of online games on eBay due to the ambiguous legal status of real world trading.\n\nWhile many game developers, such as Blizzard (creator of \"World of Warcraft\"), prohibit the practice, it is common that goods and services within virtual economies will be sold on online auction sites and traded for real currencies.\n\nAccording to standard conceptions of economic value (see the subjective theory of value), the goods and services of virtual economies do have a demonstrable value. Since players of these games are willing to substitute real economic resources of time and money (monthly fees) in exchange for these resources, by definition they have demonstrated utility to the user.\n\nIn January 2010, Blizzard stepped up its offensive on account security scams with the launch of a new website. The new Battle.Net account security website hopes to highlight the importance of keeping it safe when it comes to subscribers' accounts.\nOngoing campaign by WoW fan sites to boycott gold ads on their sites is just one of several community efforts to raise awareness against crackers.\nOn August 1, 2011, Blizzard Entertainment announced that their forthcoming MMORPG, Diablo III, will include a currency-based auction house, wherein players will be able to buy and sell in-game items for real money. Robert Bridenbecker, Vice President of Online Technologies at Blizzard, explained that the intent behind the effort is largely to reduce account thefts resulting from player interaction with third-party sites. An undisclosed fee structure including listing fees, sale fees, and cash-out fees will accompany the Auction House at launch, and all transactions will exist within the protected context of Blizzard's MMORPG. The \"Real Money Auction House\" (RMAH), as it is called by the Diablo III fanbase, will exist in the presence of a parallel auction house wherein items are exchanged for gold, the in-game currency. Accordingly, gold can be posted on the RMAH such that the two currencies may be exchanged for one another at the market rate less applicable fees.\n\nOther virtual world developers officially sell virtual items and currency for real-world money. For example, the MMOG \"There\" has therebucks that sell for US dollars. If the currency in \"Second Life\", the Linden Dollars, can be easily acquired with real money, the reverse is done through a market place owned by Linden Lab, but is not guaranteed, as the TOS of linden Lab explicitly says that Linden dollars are not redeemable. Rates would fluctuate based on supply and demand, but over the last few years they have remained fairly stable at around 265 Linden Dollars (L$) to the US Dollar, due to \"money creation\" by Linden Lab. The currency in \"Entropia Universe\", Project Entropia Dollars (PED), could be bought and redeemed for real-world money at a rate of 10 PED for U.S$. 1. On December 14, 2004, an island in \"Project Entropia\" sold for U.S. $26,500 (£13,700). One gamer also purchased a virtual space station for U.S. $100,000 (£56,200) and plans to use it as a virtual nightclub. Another example was recently cited on CNBC that one seller was selling a Pokémon Go account for $999,999.\n\nMany Korean virtual worlds (such as Flyff) and other worlds outside that country (such as Archlord and Achaea, Dreams of Divine Lands) operate entirely by selling items to players for real money. Such items generally cannot be transferred and are often used only as a means to represent a Premium subscription via a method which is easily integrated into the game engine.\n\nThese intersections with real economies remain controversial. Markets that capitalize in gaming are not widely accepted by the gaming industry. Reasons for this controversy are varied. Firstly, the developers of the games often consider themselves as trying to present a fantasy experience, so the involvement of real world transactions takes away from it. Further, in most games, it would be unacceptable to offer another player real currency in order to have them play a certain way (e.g., in a game of Monopoly between friends, offering another player a real dollar in exchange for a property on the board); and for this to be necessary or valuable may indicate a Kingmaker scenario within the game. However, such rules of etiquette need not apply, and in practice they often don't, to massive game worlds with thousands of players who know one another only through the game system.\n\nFurther and more involved issues revolve around the issue of how (or if) real-money trading subjects the virtual economy to laws relating to the real economy. Some argue that to allow in-game items to have monetary values makes these games, essentially, gambling venues, which would be subject to legal regulation as such. Another issue is the impact of taxation that may apply if in-game items are seen as having real value. If (for example) a magic sword is considered to have real-world value, a player who kills a powerful monster to earn such a sword could find himself being charged tax on the value of the sword, as would be normal for a \"prize winning\". This would make it impossible for any player of the game \"not\" to participate in real-money trading.\n\nA third issue is the involvement of the world's developer or maintenance staff in such transactions. Since a developer may change the virtual world any time, ban a player, delete items, or even simply take the world down never to return, the issue of their responsibility in the case where real money investments are lost through items being lost or becoming inaccessible is significant. Richard Bartle argued that this aspect negates the whole idea of ownership in virtual worlds, and thus in the absence of real ownership no real trade may occur. Some developers have acted deliberately to delete items that have been traded for money, as in Final Fantasy XI, where a task force was set up to delete characters involved in selling in-game currency for real-world money.\n\nHowever, Second Life has shown a legal example which may indicate that the developer can be in part held responsible for such losses. Second Life at one stage, offered and advertised the ability to \"own virtual land\", which was purchased for real money. In 2007, Marc Bragg, an attorney, was banned from Second Life; in response he sued the developers for thereby depriving him of his land, which he – based on the developers' own statements – \"owned\". The lawsuit ended with a settlement in which Bragg was re-admitted to Second Life. The details of the final settlement were not released, but the word \"own\" was removed from all advertising as a result. (Bragg purchased his land directly from the developers, and thus they were not an uninvolved third party in his transactions.) \n\n"}
{"id": "33409691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33409691", "title": "Wake (Sawyer novel)", "text": "Wake (Sawyer novel)\n\nWake, also called WWW: Wake, is a 2009 novel written by Canadian novelist Robert J. Sawyer and the first book in his \"WWW Trilogy\". It was first published on April 8, 2009 and was followed by \"Watch\" in 2010 and by \"Wonder\" in 2011. The novel details the spontaneous emergence of an intelligence on the World Wide Web, called Webmind, and its friendship with a blind teenager named Caitlin.\n\nSawyer developed the initial idea for \"Wake\" in January 2003 when he wrote in his diary about the emergence of consciousness on the World Wide Web. The novel was named a 2010 Hugo Award nominee in the category for Best Novel and won a 2009 \"Aurora Award\".\n\n\"Wake\" is set in 2012. Fifteen-year-old Caitlin Decter has been blind from birth. The Decter family recently moved from Austin, Texas to Waterloo, Ontario after Caitlin's father, Malcolm, received a job at the Perimeter Institute. Caitlin is emailed by Dr. Masayuki Kuroda, a scientist specializing in \"signal processing related to V1.\" He believes that her blindness is caused by her retinas miscoding the visual information and offers to install a signal processor behind her left eye to unscramble the data. The device sends the data to a miniature computer, or \"eyePod\", which reprocesses the signals and returns them. The correct data is sent to her optic nerve, theoretically granting her sight. In duplex mode it sends and receives the signals, and in simplex mode it only sends them. Caitlin and her mother, Barbara, fly to Tokyo for the procedure. Although her pupils now react to light, Caitlin still cannot see. They return to Canada while Dr. Kuroda works on updating the software.\n\nA bird-flu epidemic with a mortality rate of at least 90% has begun in China. Dr. Quan Li, a senior member of the Communist Party, recommends the President order a culling of ten to eleven thousand people in the infected area with an airborne chemical. The President agrees and launches the Changcheng Strategy, cutting off all telephone, satellite, and wireless communication with the rest of the world, so that word of the culling does not spread beyond China's borders. Wong Wai-Jeng, a freedom blogger who is known online as Sinanthropus, attempts to circumvent Internet censorship in China along with many other hackers. Collectively they learn about the bird flu outbreak. Many days after enacting the Changcheng Strategy, Zhang Bo, the Minister of Communications, convinces the President to restore communications. The moment they are back up, Sinanthropus posts a blog, informing the world of the bird flu outbreak and the culling. He is tracked down by the police and, while attempting to flee, breaks his leg and is captured.\n\nThe first software update Kuroda attempts is a partial success. Although Caitlin can still not see the outside world, it enables her to visualize the World Wide Web while the update downloads when the eyePod is in duplex mode. Dr. Kuroda speculates that the data being transmitted between the eyePod and his server in Tokyo is being interpreted by her optic nerve, allowing her to see this. He decides to travel to Waterloo to work with Caitlin on the implant more directly. In the interim, he suggests sending the retinal feed from her eyePod to his Tokyo server through Jagster, a fictional search engine, so that he can monitor how she reacts to different inputs. He dubs her ability to visualize the internet \"websight\". Caitlin notes that, along with websites and links, she can visualize a background in websight that looks like a chess board. Dr. Kuroda speculates that the background is made up of cellular automata, which Caitlin suggests is caused by corrupted packet loss. Several Zipf plots are run of the cellular automata, which has a negative one slope. The Decters, Dr. Kuroda, and Anna Bloom, a network cartographer, realize that means the cellular automata contain intelligent content, which Anna suggests is secret communications from the National Security Agency. They decide to keep investigating the cellular automata discreetly.\n\nIn San Diego, California, Shoshana Glick, an ape-language researcher and graduate student, works at the Marcuse Institute, a primate research centre. Hobo, a chimpanzee-bonobo hybrid, communicates by sign language. Doctor Harl Marcuse, the owner of the Institute, sets up a connection with the Miami Zoo. Hobo communicates with an orangutan named Virgil in the first interspecies webcam call. The Marcuse Institute and Miami Zoo agree to announce the chat jointly, but the Miami Zoo leaks word of it to \"New Scientist\", who go to the Georgia Zoo - Hobo's birthplace - for information on him. Georgia Zoo, fearing about the contamination between the captive chimpanzee and bonobo bloodlines, demand Hobo be returned to them so that he can be sterilized. Hobo paints a portrait of Shoshana, surprising everyone at the Institute as it had been believed that chimpanzees could only paint abstractly. Dr. Marcuse theorizes that the communication with Virgil had shown Hobo \"how three-dimensional objects could be reduced to two dimensions.\" The Marcuse Institute decide to record Hobo painting a second time and then go public, believing that the outcry over sterilizing him would force the Georgia Zoo to back down from their plans. The Georgia Zoo issues a lawsuit, planning to castrate Hobo.\n\nDr. Kuroda sets up a final software patch. While at school, Caitlin decides to take a break from her work and switches the eyePod to duplex mode so she can look through websight. It fails to load and, disappointed, she returns the eyePod to simplex mode. She sees several lines crossing her field of vision and is surprised when she realizes that they are the edge of a lab bench and that she can now see. Barbara picks Caitlin up from school and informs her about the patch. Malcolm runs Shannon entropy graphs on the cellular automata to gauge how complex the information in them is. He shows Caitlin how to run it, and they discover that the information has little complexity. Dr. Kuroda holds a press conference, announcing the success of his invention that has made Caitlin able to see. Caitlin receives an electric shock which crashes the eyePod. She reboots it in duplex mode and sees a mirrored representation of her face in websight.\n\nAn intelligence has spontaneously emerged on the Web. Cleaved in two when the Changcheng Strategy was enacted, the restoration of communications by China causes the two halves to coalesce, and it gains in intelligence. The intelligence can view Caitlin's eyePod feed. It believes that her vision is an attempt to communicate with it and, when her eyePod was rebooted, it sent an image of Caitlin in an attempt to communicate back. As Caitlin begins to learn how to read letters, the intelligence believes it is a further attempt to communicate and learns with her. When she switches to duplex mode, it takes that act to be a reward for its learning progress. Caitlin believes it to be \"visual noise\" as a result of gaining sight. Dr. Kuroda looks at the information on his server, and Caitlin realizes that the information is her reading exercises being bounced back to her. She then runs another Shannon entropy scan, realising that the information in the cellular automata has increased in intelligence. Caitlin deduces that the information is trying to communicate with her and decides to help it. Dr. Kuroda feels it is now time to return to Japan and informs her that, as she can now see, he will remove the duplex setting from her eyePod. Caitlin convinces him to keep it as is so that she can continue to see websight. She runs another Shannon entropy plot and realizes that the intelligence has increased yet again. She continues with her teaching efforts, leading the intelligence to different websites so that it can continue learning. She runs the Shannon entropy a fourth and fifth time and finds that the intelligence is double that of human complexity.\n\nThe intelligence contacts Caitlin via email and wishes her a happy birthday. It thanks her for helping it to learn and invites her to communicate with it through instant messenger. She asks it what she should call it, and the intelligence replies \"Webmind\". Webmind and Caitlin decide to go forwards together.\n\n\"Wake\" was conceptualized on 10 January 2003, when Sawyer said in his diary \"Wrote 300 words explaining how I was going to expand \"Shed Skin\" into a novel to be called \"Skins\", and, after wracking my brain for a couple of hours, came up with an idea that I liked for a second novel: consciousness emerges on the World Wide Web. Admittedly, not completely original (Clarke's short story \"Dial F for Frankenstein\" comes to mind), but I checked on Amazon.com and Google, and couldn't find any book that had actually done this.\" It was planned as a single novel, but was later expanded into a trilogy.\n\nSawyer noted that \"Wake\" contains themes of \"the nature of perception and how it shapes our view of reality; how much humans are in fact programmed by evolution, and whether humanity can overcome that programming; and what, if any, value consciousness has.\" He added that he was \"very interested in trying to find a new synthesis, a new approach to the question of what happens once something more intelligent than we are emerges here. Is there a way out of the standard science-fictional paradigm that has us subjugated or wiped out, as seen in \"The Matrix\" and \"The Terminator\", and going all the way back to \"Colossus: The Forbin Project\" and before? Is there a compelling argument to be made for us being able to continue, with our essential humanity intact, once true AI is on the scene?\"\n\n\"Wake\" was serialized in the November 2008, December 2008, combined January–February 2009, and March 2009 issues of \"Analog Science Fiction and Fact\" magazine. It was published in April 2009 by Penguin Canada's Viking imprint. In the United States it was released under the title \"WWW: Wake\". The book was followed by two sequels, \"Watch\" (2010) and \"Wonder\" (2011).\n\nAn unabridged audiobook was released by Audible Frontiers on 7 April 2009, coinciding with the date of American publication. The \"Wake\" audiobook has a runtime of 12 hours and 13 minutes. The voice cast includes Jessica Almasy, Jennifer Van Dyck, A.C. Fellner, Marc Vietor, and Robert J. Sawyer.\n\nCritical reception for \"Wake\" has been mostly positive. The \"SF Site\" praised the novel overall, but commented that the character of Caitlin was \"too perfect\" at times. \"SF Signal\" also wrote a positive review and stated that although they felt that the explanation of Webmind's existence was overly long, the novel as a whole was exemplary. \"The Globe and Mail\" was more mixed in their review, as they felt that several parts of the novel were awkward and that while they did enjoy the book, \"none of the characters feel fully formed yet, though hopefully this will change with the next two books of the trilogy.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14676249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14676249", "title": "William Lodge (American football)", "text": "William Lodge (American football)\n\nWilliam Penn Lodge (May 2, 1890 – June 4, 1950) was an American football coach. He was the third head football coach at Southern Illinois Normal College—now known as Southern Illinois University Carbondale—serving for one season, in 1919, and compiling a record of 2–2. Lodge was born in Philadelphia on May 2, 1890. He was a graduate of Battle Creek College—now known as Andrews University—in Berrien Springs, Michigan. Lodge served as a captain in the United States Marine Corps during World War I, receiving the Bronze Star Medal. He was later a medical health officer at Battle Creek Sanitarium and ran a sanitarium in Norristown, Pennsylvania. Lodge also worked as a coroner in Ocean County, New Jersey and as the town clerk for Long Beach Township, New Jersey. He died in Long Beach on June 4, 1950.\n"}
