{"id": "51651827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51651827", "title": "2016 Oregon Ballot Measure 97", "text": "2016 Oregon Ballot Measure 97\n\nOregon Ballot Measure 97 was a ballot measure in the 2016 election in the U.S. state of Oregon. The initiative asked voters to determine whether or not to impose a 2.5 percent gross receipts tax on C corporations with Oregon sales exceeding $25 million. S corporations and benefit companies (companies that benefit society and the environment, as determined under state law) would be exempt from the tax. It was estimated the measure would raise $3 billion annually for the state, if passed. \n\nThe nonpartisan Oregon Legislative Revenue Office determined that of the some 250,000 businesses registered in Oregon, 951 would be subject to the tax; of these, the hundred largest taxpayers would pay about two-thirds of the monies raised. The same report estimated that wholesale companies in Oregon would see their taxes grow by almost $600 million, a 583 percent increase. Taxes on Oregon retailers would increase by $535 million, a 766 percent jump. Health care firms operating in Oregon would experience a 1,211 percent increase in their taxes, adding almost $100 million per year to the cost of health care across the state.\n\nDuring the state's general election held in November 2016, Oregon voters defeated the measure 59 percent (opposed) to 41 percent.\n\nThe campaigns for and against the ballot measure raised the most money ever over a ballot measure in Oregon. By the week before Election Day, combined fundraising for the two campaigns had reached $40 million. Opponents of the measure outspent proponents of the measure; the anti-Measure 97 campaign, the Defeat the Tax on Oregon Sales Committee, raised almost $26 million, while the pro-Measure 97 committee Yes on 97 raised $14 million. A separate pro-Measure 97 group, Defend Oregon, also raised funds in support of the measure's passage.\n\nThe major supporters of the Measure 97 were labor unions, and in particular the Oregon Education Association, the state's primary teachers' union, which contributed a total of $2.1 million to the campaign in support of Measure 97. The Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 503, which is \"the largest union representing Oregon state government workers\", gave almost $3 million to the pro-Measure 97 campaign. The American Federation of Teachers and the Oregon American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees also contributed to the pro-Measure 97 campaign.\n\nMajor corporations mostly opposed the law. Companies and trade associations that contributed to the campaign against the measure include, among others, Amazon.com, General Motors, Kroger/Fred Meyer, J.P. Morgan Chase, Wal-Mart, Costco, Safeway/Albertsons, the Oregon Association of Realtors, Jive Software, Comcast, Pacific Seafood, and the Craft Brew Alliance.\n\nGovernor Kate Brown, a Democrat, supported the measure, while Brown's opponent in the 2016 gubernatorial election, Republican nominee William C. \"Bud\" Pierce, opposed the measure.\n\nA poll conducted by DHM Research during September 1–6 showed 60 percent of respondents were in favor of Measure 97, with 30 percent opposed. Another poll conducted by icitizen during September 2–7 found that 59 percent of 610 respondents were in favor of the measure passing, with 21 percent opposed. However, support decreased to 40 percent and opposition increased to 31 percent after participants heard arguments against Measure 97. The poll's margin of error was 4 percent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52570750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52570750", "title": "270towin.com", "text": "270towin.com\n\n270towin.com is a nonpartisan American political website that projects who will win United States presidential elections and also allows users to create their own electoral maps. It also tracks the results of United States presidential elections by state throughout the country's history.\n\nhttps://www.270towin.com/maps/xJnvk"}
{"id": "403852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=403852", "title": "Agreed Measures for the Conservation of Antarctic Fauna and Flora", "text": "Agreed Measures for the Conservation of Antarctic Fauna and Flora\n\nThe Agreed Measures for the Conservation of Antarctic Fauna and Flora is a set of measures agreed on the third \"Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting\" in Brussels 1964 as recommendation number VIII. It is part of the Antarctic Treaty System but has been designated no longer \"current\" in 2011. Its Objective is to further international collaboration within the framework of the Antarctic Treaty to promote and achieve the objectives of protection, scientific study, and rational use of these fauna and flora.\n\nThe convention was ratified both by members whose ratification was required for entry into force as by others. A list is shown \n"}
{"id": "26822624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26822624", "title": "Anat Kamm–Uri Blau affair", "text": "Anat Kamm–Uri Blau affair\n\nThe Anat Kamm–Uri Blau affair refers to a leak of thousands of classified Israel Defense Forces (IDF) documents by the former Israeli soldier Anat Kamm.\n\nDuring her military service as an assistant in the Central Command bureau, Kamm secretly copied thousands of classified documents, including many confidential documents. After she finished her military service, Kamm copied the documents to a CD and leaked it to the Israeli \"Haaretz\" journalist Uri Blau. On these acts, Kamm was later on convicted of espionage and providing confidential information without authorization.\n\nInformation from the leak suggested that the military had defied a ruling by the Supreme Court of Israel against assassinating wanted militants in the West Bank who could potentially be arrested safely.\n\nFacts in the case were subjected to an Israeli gag order. Given that Kamm worked as a gossip journalist dealing with media affairs, the case became well known to journalists, who started reporting on it using indirect descriptions. The gag order was ultimately circumvented and broken from abroad, notably through U.S.-based blogsite Tikun Olam.\n\nAccording to the indictment, Kamm illegally copied over 2,000 classified documents during her military service at the IDF. Israeli law enforcement sources said the documents include \"operational military information, security and situation assessments, meetings' minutes and protocols, highly sensitive intelligence information, orders of deployment and battle, drill briefings, and warfare doctrines for the West Bank\". Shin Bet chief Yuval Diskin said that the case \"had the potential to cause grave damage to state security\", and defined the documents as \"the kind that any intelligence agency would be delighted to get its hands on\".\n\nAnat Kamm or Anat Kam (, born 1987) is an Israeli journalist.\n\nKamm was born in 1987 in Jerusalem. She studied at the Hebrew University Secondary School. In her youth, she wrote for the local newspaper \"Jerusalem\" (now \"Yediot Jerusalem\") and for the youth channel of the Israeli website Walla!.\n\nIn 2005, Kamm began her military service in the Israeli Defence Forces. In July 2005, she was assigned to work as a clerk in the office of the commander of the Israeli Central Command. In January 2006, she began her training at an officer's course, but was eventually eliminated and afterwards was assigned to work as an assistant in the office of the commander of Israeli Central Command, Major General Yair Naveh.\n\nAfter she finished her military service, she studied for a bachelor's degree in History and Philosophy at Tel Aviv University. In August 2007, she worked as a reporter for \"Walla!\", an internet news portal then owned by the Bezeq and Haaretz groups. She was employed there until 10 March 2010, when she announced a leave of absence.\nUri Blau (, born 1977) is an Israeli writer and journalist and currently an investigative reporter for the \"Haaretz\" newspaper, specializing in military affairs.\n\nIn 2008, Blau published a report based on these documents, which said that the IDF senior command planned and executed targeted killings of three people, in violation of an earlier 2006 ruling of the Israeli Supreme Court limiting the circumstances in which such a tactic could be used.\n\n\"This is an arrest operation,\" the document said, attributing the quote to Naveh. \"But in case [the soldiers] identify one of the senior leaders of the Islamic Jihad, Walid Obeid, Ziad Malaisha, Adham Yunis, they have permission to open fire in accordance with their appraisal of the situation during the operation.\"\n\nThe Chief of General Staff, Lieutenant General Gabi Ashkenazi was angered by the leak of highly classified documents, and ordered an investigation about its source.\n\nFollowing a petition for investigation by two Israeli leading human rights attorneys, the Attorney-General Menahem Mazuz responded in a letter challenging the allegations made by Blau:\n\nAccording to documents released by The Tel Aviv District Court, Kamm said during her interrogation: \"There were some aspects of the IDF's operational procedures in the West Bank that I felt should be public knowledge... When I was burning the CDs I kept thinking that history tends to forgive people who expose war crimes\". The Israeli police secured a gag order prohibiting Israeli media from reporting on Kamm's arrest, and the reasons for it. The charges against Kamm do not relate to her journalistic activities as a media correspondent, but rather to being a journalistic source.\n\nDespite the fact that numerous foreign media outlets, as well as local blogs, had reported on the case and her identity, there was a gag order within the mainstream media. No printed newspaper had published her name, though many have published reports criticizing the authorities for imposing the gag and preventing them from telling their readers about the major story. The first overseas reporting on the case came in the Tikun Olam blog, which collaborated with Israeli bloggers and journalists to bring the story into the public consciousness.\n\nAfter pressure from articles in the foreign media and from the Israeli press itself, which resented its muzzling, the gag order was removed on 8 April and an indictment was published accusing Kamm of espionage and damaging the security of the state. She faced a possible penalty of life in prison. Reaction among some in the public has been especially harsh, with some calling her a spy and traitor. Kamm's trial was scheduled to begin in May 2010, unless her attorneys arrived at a plea bargain with the prosecution.\n\nThough the prosecution originally sought the gag order, in this case Kamm and her attorneys felt it was in her interest to honor it as well. She has exerted great pressure on her supporters not to publicize her arrest or the charges against her. She asked the Hebrew Wikipedia to remove the article about her (although a deletion vote was opened before her request was made), raised controversy both within the Hebrew Wikipedia community and among free speech and free press advocates within Israel and abroad.\n\nThe case raised profound questions about the balance between national security and press scrutiny. Advocates for human rights and democracy both within Israel and outside are closely monitoring the case. The Paris-based Reporters Without Borders issued a statement saying that \"Defence of national security is a legitimate objective but censorship must not be used to prevent the Israel Defense Forces from being held responsible if they broke the law.\"\n\nAlthough a gag order was initially issued in late January 2010 while Kamm was in house arrest, the Israeli journalist Yitzhak Tessler of NRG Ma'ariv was the first to refer to the affair in his column where he called journalists to find ways to make the publish the details surrounding the affair. Beside several Israeli blogs, that soon deleted the information they published about the affair (some deleted the information due to the gag order and some due to a request from Kamm herself) and The Seventh Eye, an Israeli site that discusses the investigation and criticism of the Israeli media, which dropped hints about the affair, no Israeli media outlet published any details about Kamm's arrest.\n\nOutside of Israel, the first to published details of affair (in mid-March 2010) was Richard Silverstein, a Jewish-American blogger. The first full publication (by an established media source) appeared at the end of March 2010 in the Jewish news agency Jewish Telegraphic Agency (JTA) from the United States. In the following days the affair was published in many newspapers and news agencies. After the details of the affair were published in various media outlets worldwide, the Israeli media began to carefully hint about the affair. The \"Haaretz\" newspaper and Channel 10 filed a petition to the District Court in Tel Aviv against the gag order, which was eventually lifted on 8 April.\n\nWith the removal of the gag order an extensive discussion was held in the Israeli media about Kamm's actions. The dominant approach in the media was that Kamm's actions risked lives without a real justification. Various parties have supported Kamm's actions, including \"Haaretz\". Richard Silverstein classified Kamm on the same level of Julian Assange and Chelsea Manning, as a world-class whistleblower.\n\nOn 14 January 2010, Kamm was indicted for espionage.\n\nOn 6 February 2011, Kamm was convicted in the Tel Aviv District Court after pleading guilty in a plea bargain to leaking more than 2,000 secret military documents to \"Haaretz\". The plea bargain contained that Kamm would not be charged with damaging national security, which carried a life sentence if convicted. Instead, she was charged with leaking classified materials, which carries a 15-year maximum sentence. The prosecution was expected to ask for a nine-year sentence.\n\nOn 30 October 2011, Kamm was sentenced to four and a half years in prison and 18 months probation. The panel of judges ruled that the two years Kamm had spent under house arrest would not be deducted from her sentence. Kamm's defense appealed the sentence to the Israeli Supreme Court, claiming that the sentence was too harsh. Kamm also requested that her sentence be deferred until a decision was made on the appeal. In a hearing before Supreme Court justice Miriam Naor, the prosecution accused Kamm of posing a major threat to the state, and claiming that due to her actions, \"we are paying the price to this day.\" Prosecutors also claimed that it was odd that Kamm complained of being judged prematurely by the press when she had previously argued that the public had a right to the information contained in the documents she leaked. Justice Naor accepted the prosecution's arguments and rejected Kamm's appeal. However, she was given three extra days of freedom so she could undergo a medical examination. On 23 November, Kamm arrived at Neve Tirtza Women's Prison in Ramla to begin serving her sentence. Kamm appealed her sentence to the Israeli Supreme Court. On 31 December 2012 the Supreme Court granted her appeal and shortened her sentence to three and a half years by majority decision, noting that she had confessed to the crime, cooperated with the investigation, spent a considerable period of time under house arrest, and is unlikely to make repeat violations. Justices Hanan Melcer and Edna Arbel voted in favor of reducing her penalty, while Noam Sohlberg voted against.\n\nIn September 2012, Uri Blau was sentenced to four months of community service for his role in the leak.\n\nIn February 2013, Anat Kamm demanded NIS 2 million in compensation from \"Haaretz\". In a letter from her attorney, Ilan Bombach, it was claimed that the newspaper's actions in exposing her as the source of the leaks caused her \"great harm\" by destroying her budding journalism career and academic studies, and threatened to sue for compensation in court unless the newspaper paid. Kamm was released after 26 months in January 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "58227251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58227251", "title": "Armistice of Malmö", "text": "Armistice of Malmö\n\nArmistice of Malmö was a treaty signed on August 26, 1848 following the First Schleswig War between Denmark and Prussia. This treaty forced Prussia and the Frankfurt National Assembly to accept Danish demands of its annexation of the Duchy of Schleswig and temporarily maintained the balance between under the pressure from Britain, France and Russia.\n"}
{"id": "43369994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43369994", "title": "ArthaLand Century Pacific Tower", "text": "ArthaLand Century Pacific Tower\n\nThe ArthaLand Century Pacific Tower is a 32-storey office building under construction in Bonifacio Global City in Taguig, Metro Manila, Philippines. The construction cost of the building owned by Arthaland Corporation is around and is slated to be completed by 2017.\n\nThe ArthaLand Tower will have 21 office floors, 14 elevators, and high-end retail outlets and other retail establishments at the ground floor and podium. It is Philippine Economic Zone Authority accredited and is aiming for LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environment Design Program) Gold and BERDE (Building for Ecologically Responsive Design Excellence) certification.\n\nThe office building was designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill (SOM) of New York, architect of One World Trade Center in New York City. This building is designed in collaboration with Filipino architectural firm, GF & Partners Architects Co.\n\nIt building will have 28,000 sqm. of net leasable area out of a gross floor area of 34,000sqm.\n\nThe building received the Best Green Development and Highly Commended in the Best Office Architectural Design at the Philippines Property Awards 2016. At the South East Asia Property Awards 2016, the ArthaLand Tower was conferred with the Special Recognition in Sustainable Design.\n"}
{"id": "18618063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18618063", "title": "Black market", "text": "Black market\n\nA black market, underground economy, or shadow economy is a clandestine market or transaction that has some aspect of illegality or is characterized by some form of noncompliant behavior with an institutional set of rules. If the rule defines the set of goods and services whose production and distribution is prohibited by law, non-compliance with the rule constitutes a black market trade since the transaction itself is illegal. Parties engaging in the production or distribution of prohibited goods and services are members of the illegal economy. Examples include the drug trade, prostitution (where prohibited), illegal currency transactions and human trafficking. Violations of the tax code involving income tax evasion constitutes membership in the unreported economy.\n\nBecause tax evasion or participation in a black market activity is illegal, participants will attempt to hide their behavior from the government or regulatory authority. Cash usage is the preferred medium of exchange in illegal transactions since cash usage does not leave a footprint. Common motives for operating in black markets are to trade contraband, avoid taxes and regulations, or skirt price controls or rationing. Typically the totality of such activity is referred to with the definite article as a complement to the official economies, by market for such goods and services, e.g. \"the black market in bush meat\".\n\nThe black market is distinct from the grey market, in which commodities are distributed through channels that, while legal, are unofficial, unauthorized, or unintended by the original manufacturer, and the white market, in which trade is legal and official.\n\nBlack money is the proceeds of an illegal transaction, on which income and other taxes have not been paid, and which can only be legitimised by some form of money laundering. Because of the clandestine nature of the black economy it is not possible to determine its size and scope.\n\nThe literature on the black market has not established a common terminology and has instead offered many synonyms including: subterranean; hidden; grey; shadow; informal; clandestine; illegal; unobserved; unreported; unrecorded; second; parallel and black.\n\nThere is no single underground economy; there are many. These underground economies are omnipresent, existing in market oriented as well as in centrally planned nations, be they developed or developing. Those engaged in underground activities circumvent, escape or are excluded from the institutional system of rules, rights, regulations and enforcement penalties that govern formal agents engaged in production and exchange. Different types of underground activities are distinguished according to the particular institutional rules that they violate. Four major underground economies can be identified:\n\n\nThe \"illegal economy\" consists of the income produced by those economic activities pursued in violation of legal statutes defining the scope of legitimate forms of commerce. Illegal economy participants engage in the production and distribution of prohibited goods and services, such as drug trafficking, arms trafficking, and prostitution.\n\nThe \"unreported economy\" consists of those economic activities that circumvent or evade the institutionally established fiscal rules as codified in the tax code. A summary measure of the unreported economy is the amount of income that should be reported to the tax authority but is not so reported. A complementary measure of the unreported economy is the \"tax gap\", namely the difference between the amount of tax revenues due the fiscal authority and the amount of tax revenue actually collected. In the U.S. unreported income is estimated to be $2 trillion resulting in a \"tax gap\" of $450–$600 billion.\n\nThe \"unrecorded economy\" consists of those economic activities that circumvent the institutional rules that define the reporting requirements of government statistical agencies. A summary measure of the unrecorded economy is the amount of unrecorded income, namely the amount of income that should (under existing rules and conventions) be recorded in national accounting systems (e.g. National Income and Product Accounts) but is not. Unrecorded income is a particular problem in transition countries that switched from a socialist accounting system to UN standard national accounting. New methods have been proposed for estimating the size of the unrecorded (non-observed) economy. But there is still little consensus concerning the size of the unreported economies of transition countries.\n\nThe \"informal economy\" comprises those economic activities that circumvent the costs and are excluded from the benefits and rights incorporated in the laws and administrative rules covering property relationships, commercial licensing, labor contracts, torts, financial credit and social security systems. A summary measure of the informal economy is the income generated by economic agents that operate informally. The informal sector is defined as the part of an economy that is not taxed, monitored by any form of government, or included in any gross national product (GNP), unlike the formal economy. In developed countries the informal sector is characterized by unreported employment. This is hidden from the state for tax, social security or labour law purposes but is legal in all other aspects. On the other hand, the term \"black market\" can be used in reference to a specific part of the economy in which contraband is traded.\n\nGoods and services acquired illegally and/or transacted for in an illegal manner may exchange above or below the price of legal market transactions:\n\nEven when the underground market offers lower prices, consumers still have an incentive to buy on the legal market when possible, because:\n\nHowever, in some limited situations, consumers conclude that they are actually better off using black market services, particularly when government regulations hinder what would otherwise be a legitimate competitive service. For example:\n\nSome examples of underground economic activities include:\n\nProstitution is illegal or highly regulated in many countries across the world. These places form a classic study of the underground economy, because of consistent high demand from customers, relatively high pay, but labor-intensive and low skilled work, which attracts a continual supply of workers. While prostitution exists in every country, studies show that it tends to flourish more in poorer countries, and in areas with large numbers of unattached men, such as around military bases. For instance, an empirical study showed that the supply of prostitutes rose abruptly in Denver and Minneapolis in 2008 when the Democratic and Republican National Conventions took place there.\n\nProstitutes in the black market generally operate with some degree of secrecy, sometimes negotiating prices and activities through codewords and subtle gestures. In countries such as Germany or the Netherlands, where prostitution is legal but regulated, illegal prostitutes exist whose services are offered cheaper without regard for the legal requirements or procedures—health checks, standards of accommodation, and so on.\n\nIn other countries, such as Nicaragua, where legal prostitution is regulated, hotels may require both parties to identify themselves, to prevent the rise of child prostitution.\n\nPersonally identifying information, financial information like credit card and bank account information, and medical data is bought and sold, mostly in darknet markets. People increase the value of the stolen data by aggregating it with publicly available data, and sell it again for a profit, increasing the damage that can be done to the people whose data was stolen.\n\nFrom the late 19th and early 20th centuries, many countries began to ban the keeping or using of some recreational drugs, such as the United States' war on drugs. Many people nonetheless continue to use illegal drugs, and a black market exists to supply them. Despite law enforcement efforts to intercept them, demand remains high, providing a large profit motive for organized criminal groups to keep drugs supplied. The United Nations has reported that the retail market value of illegal drugs is $321.6 billion USD.\n\nAlthough law enforcement agencies intercept a fraction of the illegal drugs, and incarcerate hundreds of thousands of wholesale and retail sellers, the very stable demand for such drugs and the high profit margins encourages new distributors to enter the market without a decrease in the retail price. Many drug legalization activists draw parallels between the illegal drug trade and the Prohibition of alcohol in the United States in the 1920s.\n\nThe legislatures of many countries forbid or restrict the personal ownership of weapons. These restrictions can range from small knives to firearms, either altogether or by classification (e.g. caliber, handguns, automatic weapons, and explosives). The black market supplies the demands for weaponry that can not be obtained legally, or may only be obtained legally after obtaining permits and paying fees. This may be by smuggling the arms from countries where they were bought legally or stolen, or by stealing from arms manufacturers within the country itself, using insiders. In cases where the underground economy is unable to smuggle firearms, they can also satisfy requests by gunsmithing their own firearms. Those who may buy this way include criminals to use for illegal activities, gun collectors, and otherwise law-abiding citizens interested in protecting their dwellings, families or businesses.\n\nIn England and Wales, certain categories of weapons used for hunting may be owned by qualified residents but must be registered with the local police force and kept within a locked cabinet. Another segment of the population who may purchase weapons on the black market are individuals who are unable to pass the legal requirements for registration—convicted felons or those suffering from mental illness for example. In a few jurisdictions, collectors may legally keep antique weapons made incapable of being readily restored to a firing condition.\n\nThe illegal logging of timber has posed as an issue. According to Interpol, the illegal logging industry is worth almost as much as drug production industry, in some countries.\n\nIn many developing countries, living animals are captured in the wild and sold as pets. Wild animals are also hunted and killed for their meat, hide, and organs, the latter of which and other animal parts are sold for use in traditional medicine.\n\nIn several of the states within the United States, laws requiring the pasteurization of milk has created black market situations involving the transport and sale of raw milk, and sometimes raw milk cheese which is legal in a number of EU countries but banned in the US if aged less than 60 days\n\nRum-running, or bootlegging, is the illegal business of transporting (smuggling) alcoholic beverages where such transportation is forbidden by law. Smuggling is usually done to circumvent taxation or prohibition laws within a particular jurisdiction. The term \"rum-running\" is more commonly applied to smuggling over water; \"bootlegging\" is applied to smuggling over land. According to the PBS documentary \"Prohibition\", the term \"bootlegging\" was popularized when thousands of city dwellers would sell liquor from flasks they kept in their boot leg all across major cities and rural areas. The term \"rum-running\" most likely originated at the start of Prohibition in the United States (1920–1933), when ships from Bimini in the western Bahamas transported cheap Caribbean rum to Florida speakeasies. But rum's cheapness made it a low-profit item for the rum-runners, and they soon moved on to smuggling Canadian whisky, French champagne, and English gin to major cities like New York City and Boston, where prices ran high. It was said that some ships carried $200,000 in contraband in a single run.\n\nIt has been reported that smuggling one truckload of cigarettes from a low-tax US state to a high-tax state can lead to a profit of up to $2 million. The low-tax states are generally the major tobacco producers, and have come under enormous criticism for their reluctance to increase taxes. North Carolina eventually agreed to raise its taxes from 5 cents to 35 cents per pack of 20 cigarettes, although this remains far below the national average. But South Carolina has so far refused to follow suit and raise taxes from seven cents per pack (the lowest in the USA).\n\nIn the UK, it has been reported that \"27% of cigarettes and 68% of roll your own tobacco is purchased on the black market\".\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization (WHO), illegal organ trade occurs when organs are removed from the body for the purpose of commercial transactions. The WHO justifies these actions by stating, \"Payment for ... organs is likely to take unfair advantage of the poorest and most vulnerable groups, undermines altruistic donation and leads to profiteering and human trafficking.\" Despite these ordinances, it was estimated that 5% of all organ recipients engaged in commercial organ transplant in 2005. Research indicates that illegal organ trade is on the rise, with a recent report by Global Financial Integrity estimating that the illegal organ trade generates profits between $600 million and $1.2 billion per year with a span over many countries.\n\nA racket is a service that is fraudulently offered to solve a problem, such as for a problem that does not actually exist, that will not be put into effect, or that would not otherwise exist if the racket did not exist. Conducting a racket is racketeering. Particularly, the potential problem may be caused by the same party that offers to solve it, although that fact may be concealed, with the specific intent to engender continual patronage for this party. An archetype is the protection racket, wherein a person or group (e.g., a criminal gang) indicates to a store owner that they could protect her/his store from potential damage, damage that the same person or group would otherwise inflict, while the correlation of threat and protection may be more or less deniably veiled, distinguishing it from the more direct act of extortion.\nRacketeering is often associated with organized crime, and the term was coined by the Employers' Association of Chicago in June 1927 in a statement about the influence of organized crime in the Teamsters union.\n\nWhere taxicabs, buses, and other transportation providers are strictly regulated or monopolized by government, a black market typically flourishes to provide transportation to poorly served or overpriced communities. In the United States, some cities restrict entry to the taxicab market with a medallion system, i.e., taxicabs must get a special license and display it on a medallion in the vehicle. In most such jurisdictions it is legal to sell the medallions, but the limited supply and resulting high prices of medallions have led to a market in unlicensed carpooling/illegal taxicab operation. In Baltimore, Maryland, for example, it is not uncommon for private individuals to provide illegal taxicab service for city residents.\n\nIn places where there is rent control there may be a black market for housing. For instance, in the UK there is illegal subletting of social housing homes where the tenant illegally rents out the home at a higher rent. In Sweden, rental contracts with regulated rent can be bought on the black market, either from the current tenant or sometimes directly from the property owner. Specialised black-market dealers assist the property owners with such transactions. In India, places like Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Kolkotta, and New Delhi where students are coming from all over India, getting high rented PG (paying guests) or other forms of rented apartments without any taxation or regulations.\n\nMedicines and essential aircraft and automobile parts (e.g. brakes, motor parts, etc.) are counterfeited on a large scale.\n\nStreet vendors in countries where there is little enforcement of copyright law, particularly in Asia and Latin America, often sell deeply discounted copies of films, music CDs, and computer software such as video games, sometimes even before the official release of the title. A determined counterfeiter with a few hundred dollars can make copies that are digitally identical to an original and face no loss in quality; innovations in consumer DVD and CD writers and the widespread availability of cracks on the Internet for most forms of copy protection technology make this cheap and easy to do.\n\nCopyright-holders and other proponents of copyright laws have found this phenomenon hard to stop through the courts, as the operations are distributed and widespread, transversing national borders and thus legal systems. Since digital information can be duplicated repeatedly with no loss of quality, and passed on electronically at little to no cost, the effective underground market value of media is zero, differentiating it from nearly all other forms of underground economic activity. The issue is compounded by widespread indifference to enforcing copyright law, both with governments and the public at large. To steal a car is seen as a crime in most people's eyes, but to obtain unauthorized copies of music or a game is not. Additionally, not all people agree with 'copyright laws', as it unfairly criminalises competition, allowing the copyright-holder to effectively monopolise related industries. It also authorises copyright-holders to use region-coding to discriminate against selected populations price-wise and availability-wise.\n\nThe comparison to car-theft, although common, is not truly analogous. Automobile theft results in an item being removed from the owner with the ownership transferred to a second party. Media piracy is a crime of duplication, with no physical property being stolen. Copyright infringement law goes as far as to deem illegal \"mixtapes\" and other such material copied to tape or disk. Copyright holders typically attest the act of theft to be in the profits forgone to the pirates. However, this makes the unsubstantiated assumption that the pirates would have bought the copyrighted material if it had not been available through file sharing or other means. Copyright holders also say that they did some work for creating their copyrighted material and they wish to get compensated for their work. No other system than copyright has been found to compensate the artists and other creators for their work, and many artists do not have any alternative source of income or another job. Many artists and film producers have accepted the role of piracy in media distribution. The spread of material through file sharing is a major source of publicity for artists and has been shown to build fan bases that may be more inclined to see the performer live (live performances make up the bulk of successful artists' revenues, however not all artists can make live performances, for example photographers typically only have a single source of income that is the licensing of their photos).\n\nMoney itself is traded on the black market. This may happen for one or more of several reasons:\n\nA government may officially set the rate of exchange of its currency with that of other currencies, typically the US dollar. When it does, the peg often overvalues the local currency relative to what its market value would be if it were a floating currency. Those in possession of the \"harder\" currency, for example expatriate workers, may be able to use the black market to buy the local currency at better exchange rates than they can get officially.\n\nIn situations of financial instability and inflation, citizens may substitute a foreign currency for the local currency. The U.S. dollar is viewed as a relatively stable and safe currency and is often used abroad as a second currency. In 2012, $340 billion, roughly 37 percent of all U.S. currency, was believed to be circulating abroad. The most recent study of the amount of currency held overseas suggests that only 25 percent of U.S. currency is presently held abroad. The widespread substitution of U.S. currency for local currency is known as \"de facto dollarisation\", and has been observed in transition countries such as Cambodia and in some Latin American countries. Some countries, such as Ecuador, abandoned their local currency and now use US dollars, essentially for this reason, a process known as de jure dollarization. See also the example of the Ghanaian cedi from the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nIf foreign currency is difficult or illegal for local citizens to acquire, they will pay a premium to acquire it. U.S. currency is viewed as a relatively stable store of value and since it does not leave a paper trail, it is also a convenient medium of exchange for both illegal transactions and for unreported income both in the U.S and abroad.\n\nMore recently cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin have been used as medium of exchange in black market transactions. Cryptocurrencies are sometimes favored over centralized currency due to their anonymous nature and their ability to be traded over the internet.\n\nIn the EU, it is not illegal for a person or business to buy fuel in one EU state for their own use in another, but as with other goods the tax will generally be payable by the final customer at the physical place of making the purchase.\n\nBetween the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, there has often been a black market in petrol and diesel.\nThe direction of smuggling can change depending on the variation of the taxes and the exchange rate between the Euro and Pound Sterling; indeed sometimes diesel will be smuggled in one direction and petrol the other.\n\nIn some countries, diesel fuel for agricultural vehicles or domestic use is taxed at a much lower rate than that for other vehicles. This is known as dyed fuel, because a coloured dye is added so it can be detected if used in other vehicles (e.g. a red dye in the UK, a green dye in Ireland). Nevertheless, the saving is attractive enough to make a black market in agricultural diesel. In 2007 it was estimated that £350 million was not gained in profit as a result of this phenomenon, in the UK.\n\nIn countries like India and Nepal, the price of fuel is set by the government, and it is illegal to sell the fuel over the set price. Due to the petrol crisis in Nepal, black marketing in fuel has been a common trend, especially during mass petrol shortage. At times, people need to queue for hours or even sometimes overnight to get the fuel. On the other hand, the petrol pump operators are alleged to hoarding the fuel, and selling it to black marketers. Black marketing in vehicle/cooking fuel became widespread during the 2015 economic blockade imposed on Nepal. Even after the economic blockade was eased, and petrol imports resumed, people are not getting the fuel as they were supposed to and are resort to buying from the black market.\n\nPeople engaged in the black market usually run their business hidden under a front business that is legal.\n\nOften, certain types of illegal products are traded against one another, depending on the geographical location.\n\nBlack markets flourish in most countries during wartime. States that are engaged in total war or other large-scale, extended wars often impose restrictions on home use of critical resources that are needed for the war effort, such as food, gasoline, rubber, metal, etc., typically through rationing. In most cases, a black market develops to supply rationed goods at exorbitant prices. The rationing and price controls enforced in many countries during World War II encouraged widespread black market activity. One source of black-market meat under wartime rationing was by farmers declaring fewer domestic animal births to the Ministry of Food than actually happened. Another in Britain was supplies from the US, intended only for use in US army bases on British land, but leaked into the local native British black market.\n\nFor example, in the Parliament of the United Kingdom on February 17, 1945,members said that \"the whole turkey production of East Anglia had gone to the black market\" and \"prosecutions [for black-marketing] were like trying to stop a leak in a battleship\", and it was said that official prices of such foods were set so low that their producers often sold their produce on the black market for higher prices; one such route (seen to operate at the market at Diss in Norfolk) was to sell live poultry to members of the public, and each purchaser would sign a form promising that he was buying the birds to breed from, and then take them home for eating.\n\nDuring the Vietnam war, soldiers would spend Military Payment Certificates on maid service and sexual entertainment, thus supporting their partners and their families. If the Vietnamese civilian wanted something that was hard to get, he would buy it at double the price from one of the soldiers, who had a monthly ration card and thus had access to the military stores. The transactions ran through the on-base maids to the local populace. Although these activities were illegal, only flagrant or large-scale black-marketeers were prosecuted by the military.\n\nA classic example of new regulation creating a black market is the Prohibition of alcohol. Similarly when the law disappears, so does the black market, which is why of the arguments for marijuana legalization is the elimination of the black market, and thus taxes from that economy being used by the government.\n\nIn India, \"black money\" refers to funds earned on the black market, on which income and other taxes have not been paid. The black money market situation in India is epidemic. India currently tops the list for illegal monies in the entire world, estimated to be almost US$1,456 billion stored in Swiss banks in the form of unaccounted money. According to the data provided by the Swiss Banking Association, India has more black money than the rest of the world combined. Indian Swiss bank account assets are worth 13 times (1300%) the country’s national debt, and, if this black money is seized and brought back to the country, India has the potential to become one of the richest countries in the world. Allegations of Indians holding trillions in black money in Switzerland are, however, in dispute. Later reports, including those by Swiss Bankers Association and the Government of Switzerland, claim that these allegations are false and fabricated, and the total amount held in all Swiss banks by citizens of India is about 2 billion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27894570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27894570", "title": "California foie gras law", "text": "California foie gras law\n\nThe California foie gras law or Senate Bill 1520 (S.B. 1520) is a California State statute that prohibits the \"force feed[ing of] a bird for the purpose of enlarging the bird's liver beyond normal size\" (California Health and Safety Code § 25981) as well as the sale of products that are a result of this process (§ 25982). This outlawed the traditional method of producing foie gras in California. The law was enacted in 2004 and went into effect on July 1, 2012. On January 7, 2015, U.S. District Judge Stephen V. Wilson held that the portion of California's law banning the sale of foie gras within the state (California Health and Safety Code § 25982) was preempted by the federal Poultry Products Inspection Act, and enjoined the California Attorney General from enforcing it. That decision was overturned on appeal on September 15, 2017, but the decision was stayed December 17 to permit the plaintiffs to petition the U.S. Supreme Court for certiorari. The certiorari petition was filed on March 9, 2018.\n\nS.B 1520 was introduced in the California Senate on February 19, 2004 by the Senate President pro tempore John Burton at the request of a coalition of animal protection organizations that included Viva!USA, Farm Sanctuary, Los Angeles Lawyers for Animals, and the Association of Veterinarians for Animal Rights.\n\nBurton stated, \"We just shouldn't be cramming a tube down a duck's throat and forcing in food to make foie gras,\" and that foie gras production is \"an inhumane process that other countries have sensibly banned. I'm pleased California will be next on the list.\"\n\nThe legislature passed the bill and it was signed into law by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger on September 29, 2004.\n\nThe law included a provision that it would take effect almost eight years after enactment, in order to allow time for techniques to be developed by which foie gras could be produced without force-feeding birds. As of the date the law took effect, no such technique had been developed that was deemed commercially viable.\n\nDuring the months leading up to the date when the law would go into effect, some California restaurants hosted elaborate multi-course meals featuring foie gras in many forms, drawing patrons who wanted to eat foie gras before the ban went into effect.\n\nA farmer in Spain is producing a version of goose foie gras, which he says is made without force-feeding the geese.\n\nA lawsuit was filed in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles on July 2, 2012, seeking to overturn the California foie gras law on the ground that it is unconstitutionally vague. The plaintiffs are two foie gras producers and a southern California restaurant group that served foie gras until the ban took effect. On July 18, 2012, U.S. District Court Judge Stephen V. Wilson denied the plaintiffs' request for a temporary injunction that would have immediately suspended the foie gras ban. On September 19, 2012, Judge Wilson denied the plaintiffs' request for a preliminary injunction against enforcement of the law.\n\nFive animal welfare organizations (the \"Proposed Defendant Intervenors\") (Farm Sanctuary, Animal Legal Defense Fund, the Marin Humane Society, the Humane Society of the United States, and the Humane Society Veterinary Medical Association) who were sponsors of the challenged law had petitioned to be accepted as defendant intervenors in the case. Judge Wilson denied their petition. On September 7, 2012, the Proposed Defendant Intervenors (the appellants) filed an appeal with the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The appellants are appealing Judge Wilson's ruling that excluded them from the case.\n\nOral arguments on the District Court's denial of the plaintiffs' preliminary injunction were heard on May 8, 2013 before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Pasadena. In August 2013, the court, in a 3–0 decision, upheld the denial of the preliminary injunction, finding that the law likely violated neither the Due Process Clause nor the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution as asserted by the plaintiffs. In January 2014, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals denied a request by foie gras proponents to reconsider their challenge to the law.\n\nOn January 7, 2015, U.S. District Judge Stephen V. Wilson held on remand that the portion of California's law banning the sale of foie gras within the state (California Health and Safety Code § 25982) was preempted by the federal Poultry Products Inspection Act (PPIA), and enjoined the California Attorney General from enforcing it. Judge Wilson's decision was appealed to the Ninth Circuit. California's Attorney General, Kamala Harris argued that the PPIA regulates the ingredients of poultry products, but that the manner in which the birds are fed while alive does not constitute an ingredient and so therefore California's foie gras law is not preempted by the PPIA. On December 7, 2016, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held oral arguments in this appeal in Pasadena. The three-judge panel hearing the arguments consisted of U.S. Circuit Judges Harry Pregerson, Jacqueline Nguyen, and John Owens. On September 15, 2017, the three-judge panel unanimously reversed U.S. District Judge Stephen V. Wilson's January 7, 2015 decision, finding that the California foie gras law is not preempted by the federal Poultry Products Inspections Act. Opponents appealed the three-judge decision to the full Ninth Circuit (for an \"en banc\" rehearing), but the Ninth Circuit did not accept that appeal. Opponents then appealed the decision to the U.S. Supreme Court. The foie gras ban won't take effect until the appeals process is concluded and a mandate is issued.\n\nAfter the law went into effect on July 1, 2012, a number of restaurants continued to serve foie gras, insisting that they were doing so as a gift to customers rather than selling it to customers.\n\n"}
{"id": "25364269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25364269", "title": "Caspian International Petroleum Company", "text": "Caspian International Petroleum Company\n\nCaspian International Petroleum Company (CIPCO) (Azerbaijani: \"Xəzər Beynəlxalq Neft Şirkəti\") was a joint operating company established by production shareholding companies for exploration, development and production sharing of the Karabakh field in the section of the Caspian Sea within Azerbaijan. \n\nIt was incorporated on 4 June 1996. The company was led by President James A. Tilley, who had been the President of \"Pennzoil Caspian\".\n\nShareholders of CIPCO had the following stakes in Karabakh field:\nThe company estimated an investment of up to $2 billion, if the feasibility studies proved the expectations for reserves. CIPCO spent nearly $100 million on feasibility studies. \n\nIn January 1999, the consortium management announced the project was not commercially feasible and as of 23 February 1999 it stopped its operations and was dissolved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17460967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17460967", "title": "Chief firearms officer", "text": "Chief firearms officer\n\nThe Chief Firearms Officer or CFO is a Canadian official responsible for Possession and Acquisition Licences, authorizations to transport, authorizations to carry, transfers of firearms, and gun show sponsorship approvals. Each province has a CFO.\n\n"}
{"id": "9954363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9954363", "title": "Communal violence", "text": "Communal violence\n\nCommunal violence is a form of violence that is perpetrated across ethnic or communal lines, the violent parties feel solidarity for their respective groups, and victims are chosen based upon group membership. The term includes conflicts, riots and other forms of violence between communities of different religious faith or ethnic origins.\n\nUnited Nations Office on Drugs and Crime includes any conflict and form of violence between communities of different religious group, different sects or tribes of same religious group, clans, ethnic origins or national origin as communal violence. However, this excludes conflict between two individuals or two families.\n\nCommunal violence is found in Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe and Australia.\n\nThe term was constructed by the British colonial authorities as it wrestled to manage violence between religious, ethnic and disparate groups in its colonies, particularly Africa and South Asia, in early 20th century.\n\nCommunal violence, in different parts of the world, is alternatively referred to as ethnic violence, non-State conflict, violent civil unrest, minorities unrest, mass racial violence, inter-communal violence and ethno-religious violence.\n\nHuman history has experienced numerous episodes of communal violence. For example, in medieval Europe, Protestants clashed with Catholics, Christians clashed with Muslims while both perpetuated violence against Jews and Roma minorities. In 1561, Huguenots in Toulouse took out in a procession through the streets to express their solidarity for Protestant ideas. A few days later, the Catholics hunted down some of the leaders of the procession, beat them and burned them at the stake. In the French town of Pamiers, communal clashes were routine between Protestants and Catholics, such as during holy celebrations where the Catholics took out a procession with a statue of St. Anthony, sang and danced while they carried the statue around town. Local Protestants would year after year disrupt the festivities by throwing stones at the Catholics. In 1566, when the Catholic procession reached a Protestant neighborhood, the Protestants chanted \"kill, kill, kill !!\" and days of communal violence with numerous fatalities followed. In 1572, thousands of Protestants were killed by Catholics during communal violence in each of the following cities – Paris, Aix, Bordeaux, Bourges, Lyon, Meaux, Orleans, Rouen, Toulouse, and Troyes. In Switzerland, communal violence between the Reformation movement and Catholics marked the 16th century.\n\nThe Horn of Africa as well as West African regions have similar history of communal violence. Nigeria has seen centuries of communal violence between different ethnic groups particularly between Christian south and Islamic north. In 1964, after receiving independence from the British colonial rule, there were widespread communal violence in the ethnically diverse state of Zanzibar. The violent groups were Arabs and Africans, that expanded along religious lines, and the communal violence ultimately led to the overthrow of the Sultan of Zanzibar. Local radio announced the death of tens of thousands of \"stooges\", but later estimates for deaths from Zanzibar communal violence have varied from hundreds to 2,000-4,000 to as many as 20,000. In late 1960s and early 1970s, there were widespread communal violence against Kenyans and Asians in Uganda with waves of theft, physical and sexual violence, followed by expulsions by Idi Amin. Idi Amin mentioned his religion as justification for his actions and the violence. Coptic Christians have suffered communal violence in Egypt for decades, with frequency and magnitude increasing since 1920s.\n\n\nEast, South and Southeast Asia have recorded numerous instances of communal violence. For example, Singapore suffered a wave of communal violence in 20th century between Malays and Chinese. In Indian subcontinent, numerous 18th through 20th century records of the British colonial era mention communal violence between Hindus and Muslims, as well as Sunni and Shia sects of Islam, particularly during processions related to respective religious celebrations.\n\nThe frequency of communal violence in South Asia increased after the first partition of Bengal in 1905, where segregation, unequal political and economic rights were imposed on Hindus and Muslims by Lord Curzon, based on religion. The colonial rule was viewed by each side as favoring the other side, resulting in a wave of communal riots and 1911 reversal of Bengal partition and its re-unification. In 1919, after British General Dyer ordered his soldiers to fire on unarmed protestors inside a compound in Amritsar, killing 380 civilians, communal violence followed in India against British settlements. There were hundreds of incidents of communal violence between 1905 and 1947, many related to religious, political sovereignty questions including partition of India along religious lines into East Pakistan, West Pakistan and India. The 1946 to 1947 period saw some of the worst communal violence of 20th century, where waves of riots and violence killed between 100,000 and a million people, from Hindu, Muslim, Sikh and Jain religions, particularly in cities and towns near the modern borders of India-Pakistan and India-Bangladesh. Examples of these communal violence include the so-called Direct Action Day, Noakhali riots and the Partition riots in Rawalpindi.\n\nThe 20th century witnessed inter-religious, intra-religious and ethnic communal violence in the Middle East, South Russia, Eastern Europe, Central Asia, South Asia and Southeast Asia.\n\nThe Indian law defines communal violence as, \"any act or series of acts, whether spontaneous or planned, resulting in injury or harm to the person and or property, knowingly directed against any person by virtue of his or her membership of any religious or linguistic minority, in any State in the Union of India, or Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes within the meaning of clauses (24) and (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution of India\".\n\nIn Indonesia, communal violence is defined as that is driven by a sense of religious, ethnic or tribal solidarity. The equivalence of tribalism to ethnicity was referred locally as \"kesukuan\". Communal violence in Indonesia includes numerous localized conflicts between various social groups found on its islands.\n\nIn Kenya, communal violence is defined as that violence that occurs between different community who identify themselves based on religion, tribes, language, sect, race and others. Typically this sense of community identity comes from birth and is inherited. Similar definition has been applied for 47 African countries, where during 1990–2010, about 7,200 instances of communal violence and inter-ethnic conflicts has been seen.\n\nColm Campbell has proposed, after studying the empirical data and sequence of events during communal violence in South Africa, Palestinian Territories and Northern Ireland, that communal violence typically follows when there is degradation of rule of law, the state fails to or is widely seen as unable to provide order, security and equal justice, which then leads to mass mobilization, followed by radicalization of anger among one or more communities, and ultimately violent mobilization. Targeted mass violence by a few from one community against innocent members of other community, suppression of complaints, refusal to prosecute, killing peaceful demonstrators, imprisonment of people of a single community while refusal to arrest members of other community in conflict, perceived or actual prisoner abuse by the state are often the greatest mobilizers of communal violence.\n\nResearch suggests that ethnic segregation may also cause communal violence. Empirically estimating the effect of segregation on the incidence of violence across 700 localities in Rift Valley Province of Kenya after the contested 2007–2008 general election, Kimuli Kahara finds that local ethnic segregation increases communal violence by decreasing interethnic trust rather than by making it easier to organize violence. Even if a small minority of individuals prefer to live in ethnically homogenous settings due to fear of other ethnic groups or otherwise, it can result in high degrees of ethnic segregation. Kahara argues that such ethnic segregation decreases the possibility of positive contact across ethnic lines. Integration and the resultant positive interethnic contact reduces prejudice by allowing individuals to correct false beliefs about members of other ethnic groups, improving intergroup relations consequently. Thus, segregation is correlated with low levels of interethnic trust. This widespread mistrust along ethnic lines explains the severity of communal violence by implying that when underlying mistrust is high, it is easier for extremists and elites to mobilize support for violence, and that where violence against members of other ethnic groups is supported by the public, perpetrators of such violence are less likely to face social sanctions.\n\nIn China, the communal violence in Xinjiang province is called ethnic violence. Communal violence and riots have also been called non-State conflict, violent civil or minorities unrest, mass racial violence, social or inter-communal violence and ethno-religious violence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1588846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1588846", "title": "Copyright Act of Canada", "text": "Copyright Act of Canada\n\nThe \"Copyright Act\" of Canada is the federal statute governing copyright law in Canada. It is jointly administered by the Department of Industry Canada and the Department of Canadian Heritage. The \"Copyright Act\" was first passed in 1921 and substantially amended in 1988 and 1997. Several attempts were made between 2005 and 2011 to amend the \"Act\", but each of the bills (Bill C-60 in 2005, Bill C-61 in 2008, and Bill C-32 in 2010) failed to pass due to political opposition. In 2011, with a majority in the House of Commons, the Conservative Party introduced Bill C-11, titled the \"Copyright Modernization Act\". Bill C-11 was passed and received Royal Assent on June 29, 2012.\n\nThe first \"Copyright Act\" was passed in 1921 and came into force in 1924. Although Canada was no longer subject to imperial copyright law, the 1921 Act was closely modelled on the UK \"Copyright Act\" of 1911 to comply with the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works.\n\nUntil 1988 the \"Copyright Act\" saw only minor amendments while the Government of Canada engaged in a number of studies on copyright reform. New technological developments and the emergence of computers, photocopiers and recording devices led to a recognition that copyright law needed to be updated. Between 1954 and 1960 the Royal Commission on Patents, Copyright, and Industrial Design, known as the Ilsley Commission, published a series of reports. Its brief was \"to enquire as to whether federal legislation relating in any way to patents of invention, industrial designs, copyright and trademarks affords reasonable incentive to invention and research, to the development of literary and artistic talents, to creativeness, and to making available to the Canadian public scientific, technical, literary and artistic creations and other adaptations, applications and uses, in a manner and on terms adequately safeguarding the paramount public interest.\"\n\nIn 1977, the Government of Canada's Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs published the Keyes-Brunet Report, a working paper with the full title \"Copyright in Canada: Proposals for Revision of the Law\". In 1984, the Government of Canada published \"From Gutenberg to Telidon: A White Paper on Copyright\" and in 1985 the House of Commons' Standing Committee on Communications and Culture published \"A Charter of Rights for Creators - Report of the Subcommittee on the Revision of Copyright\". A copyright reform process was initiated in two phases: Phase one was started in 1988 and saw several amendments to the original \"Copyright Act\" of 1921. Computer programs were included as works protected under copyright, the extent of moral rights was clarified, the provision for a compulsory licence for the reproduction of musical works was removed, new licensing arrangements were established for orphan works in cases where the copyright owner could not be identified, and rules were enacted on the formation of copyright collecting societies and their supervision by a reformed Copyright Board of Canada.\n\nPhase two of the reform took place in 1997 and saw the \"Copyright Act\" amended with a new remuneration right for producers and performers of sound recordings when their work was broadcast or publicly performed by radio stations and public places such as bars. A private copying levy was introduced on blank audio tapes used for private copying and exclusive book distributors were granted protection in Canada. New copyright exceptions were introduced for nonprofit educational institutions, libraries, museums, broadcasters, and people with disability, allowing them to copy copyrighted works in specific circumstances without the permission of the copyright owner or the need to pay royalties. Damages payable for copyright infringement and the power to grant injunctions were increased, and the 1997 reforms introduced a mandatory review of the \"Copyright Act\".\n\nIn June 2005, the Government of Canada introduced Bill C-60 to amend the \"Copyright Act\". Bill C-60 sought to extend moral rights to performers of other people's works and repeal the photographer exception allowing people to gain de facto authorship of anything they photograph. The bill also proposed to make circumventing rights management schemes an offence, but mostly when done for the purpose of violating another right. The bill was never passed into law as Parliament was dissolved after a motion of non-confidence was passed in November 2005.\n\nIn Summer 2008, the Government of Canada introduced Bill C-61 in their continuing effort to update the \"Copyright Act\", with numerous similarities to the previous Bill C-60 and the American DMCA. Industry Minister Jim Prentice introduced the bill to improve compliance with WIPO treaties. It was heavily criticized and praised by conflicting sides, of being too harsh and setting up \"police states\", to being needed copyright reform. The bill died on the table due to the September 7, 2008 election call.\n\nOn June 2, 2010, Bill C-32 was tabled by federal Industry Minister Tony Clement, full title \"An Act to Amend the Copyright Act.\" While many aspects of the bill changed with respect to Bill C-61, those portions regarding legal protection of technological protection measures remained fundamentally unchanged. These measures were criticised by consumer groups, including the Consumers Council of Canada, the Public Interest Advocacy Centre, Option consommateurs and Union des consommateurs; via the Canadian Consumer Initiative, they sent a letter to Heritage Minister James Moore, who had stated in the House of Commons that consumer interests were represented by the Canadian Chamber of Commerce, noting that the Canadian Chamber of Commerce \"is a business lobby group that in no way represents consumer interests, and in fact opposes the position of consumer groups on copyright policy\". On April 2011, before the bill could be passed, the government lost the confidence of the House of Commons and an election was called.\n\nOn September 29, 2011, Bill C-11 was introduced into Canadian 41st Parliament by the federal Industry Minister Christian Paradis with the short title \"Copyright Modernization Act\" The bill is virtually identical to Bill C-32 from the previous Parliament which did not pass due to the dissolution of Parliament. Most of the opposition to the Bill from the opposition parties, in particular the NDP's opposition is about two aspects: The fact that it is prohibited to circumvent digital locks even for lawful purposes and henceforth all the fair dealing rights in the bill can easily be removed by the usage of such a digital lock, and the missing compensation of creators of works through a scheme similar to the one used in the past that puts a levy on recording media at the time of sale of such blank media. On June 18, 2012 the bill received its third and final reading; receiving unanimous Conservative support and unanimous opposition by Liberal and NDP members of parliament. The bill received Royal Assent on June 29, 2012 with all amendments rejected.\n\nCopyright grants the sole and exclusive right to create and recreate a work whether wholly or substantially. It also includes the sole rights to:\nand to authorize any such acts.\n\nThe \"Act\" provides protection for all \"original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic\" works. Close attention has been paid to the use of the word \"original\". It has been well established that the foremost requirement for the subsistence of copyright is that the work is original.\n\nThe \"CCH Canadian\" case re-evaluated the meaning of \"original\" and found that for a work to be original it must be the result of the exercise of \"skill and judgment\". More specifically: skill, meaning the \"use of one's knowledge, developed an aptitude or practiced ability in producing work\", and judgment, meaning the \"use of one's capacity for discernment or ability to form an opinion or evaluation by comparing different possible options in producing the work\". Nevertheless, originality does not require any novelty or creativity. It does require intellectual effort beyond mere mechanical exercise.\n\nThe determination of originality on the basis presented in \"CCH Canadian\" depends on the facts. For a large part, it depends on the degree to which the work originated from the author. Many factors are considered, The medium or form used is significant. Whether it comprises elements that are in the public domain or not, whether it the ordering of data or facts, or whether the form is pedestrian or novel. Mere selection is generally not enough. As well, it is significant to consider whether there are any artistic elements to it.\n\nCopyright provides the protection of expression of ideas. This entails that there must be a form, or \"fixation\", to the expression. It is fixation that distinguishes an expression from an idea.\n\nIn \"Canadian Admiral Corp. v. Rediffusion\", the court considered fixation: \"for copyright to exists in a 'work' it must be expressed to some extent at least in some material form, capable of identification and having a more or less permanent endurance.\" In this case, the court found that there was an insufficient fixation in the live broadcast of a sports event. Any sort of broadcast, telecast, or display of a spectacle on its own is not sufficient to be fixed. At the least, it must be simultaneously recorded in some fashion to be fixed.\n\nTo the possible exception of choreographed works, there is a requirement that the work be recorded in a relatively permanent form. Typing a note into a computer screen may be sufficiently permanent. Some cases have shown that unstructured speech or other spontaneous or improvised creations, such as a sports game, cannot contain copyright.\n\nBoth facts and ideas are by their very nature uncopyrightable. This will often create difficulties when it becomes necessary to separate the idea from the expression as well as in the separation of fact from the arranging and use of those facts. Where the distinction between idea and expression becomes obscured the Courts often take a precautionary view that it cannot be copyrighted so as to avoid preventing others from expressing the same idea.\n\nMinor designs that are largely ornamental or functional are excluded as well. For example, coloured blocks used as tools in an educational program are excluded.\n\nThe copyright of an artist's work is owned directly by the artist in most cases with the exception of \"engravings\", \"photographs\", \"portraits\", and works created in the course of employment. Furthermore, these rights can be alienated through assignment and licences.\n\nAn artist's moral rights, however, are inalienable and stay with the artist their entire lives. As with copyrights, moral rights are inheritable.\n\nSection 12 of the \"Copyright Act\" reserves copyright for all works that are \"prepared or published by or under the direction or control of Her Majesty or any government department.\" Normally, such copyright lasts for a period of 50 years following the end of the calendar year when the work was performed or created. However, Crown copyright applies \"without prejudice to any rights or privileges of the Crown\". In this way it is \"said to be perpetual...and not to lapse through non-use or non-assertion\", although the exact extent of what is or is not covered by this \"perpetual copyright\" is not entirely clear in practice. As of November 18, 2013, Crown Copyright and Licensing is no longer centrally administered, and the department or agency that created the information must be contacted for specific Crown copyright information. This has resulted in varied approaches by different organisations, where \"the non-commercial licence has disappeared from the Public Works and Government Services site and it is unclear whether it remains active\", and where \"some departments have denied permission or asserted crown copyright to take down content\". One example of Crown copyright being applied beyond the 50 year expiration mark is the 1921 design of the Arms of Canada, and its 1957 revision, which \"may not be reproduced, whether for commercial or non-commercial purposes\".\n\nThe music industry created a loophole in Canadian copyright laws when it asked for a levy on blank audio media. Since 1999, these private copying levies on blank audio recording media (such as audio cassettes, CDs and CD-Rs) have raised millions of dollars for songwriters, recording artists, music publishers and record companies who partake in the industry system. In exchange, and subject to certain exceptions, the act of copying music onto an audio recording medium for the private use of the person who makes the copy does not constitute copyright infringement. Also, the statutory private copying provision is silent as to whether the person doing the private copying must also be the owner of the music being copied.\n\nSome argue that the private copying levy legalized copying in the digital age, to the consternation of the music industry. However, Canadian courts have not extended the definition of \"audio recording medium\" to exempt music copied onto computer hard drives, digital audio recorders (such as iPods or MP3 players), or other types of permanently embedded memory.\n\nSection 5 of the \"Copyright Act\" applies copyright protection to all citizens, residents, and corporations of Berne Convention, Universal Copyright Convention and World Trade Organization countries. The status is determined at the time the work is created or published. The section also permits the Minister of Industry to certify that these rights are extended to other countries. These are listed in the Regulations\n\nAccording to s. 6 of the Act the copyright of a work lasts the life of the author plus 50 years from the end of the calendar year of death. Except if the work is a cinematographic work in which case it's 50 years from the date of publication or, if unpublished, 50 years from the date of making \n\nFor joint authors, the copyright of a work lasts the life of the author who dies last, plus 50 years from the end of the calendar year of that death.\n\nAccording to s. 9(2), the duration of foreign works generally follow the Rule of the shorter term except in the case of NAFTA countries (i.e. USA and Mexico). Works from NAFTA countries follow the Canadian duration rule.\n\nWhere the identity of the author is unknown (if the author is anonymous or pseudonymous) then the copyright lasts for either 50 years from the publication of the work or 75 years from the making of the work, whichever is shorter. However, if author's identity becomes commonly known during this time, the term provided in section 6 applies. The act also makes provisions for posthumous works.\n\nThe \"Copyright Act\" allows anyone who seeks permission to use a copyright-protected work but cannot locate the copyright owner to apply to the Copyright Board (\"the Board\") for a licence to use that work. Works that are published or fixed (as the case may be) are eligible for a licence. The four categories are eligible material are:\n\nThe Board can only issue a licence to works that are copyright-protected. If a work is not within the scope of copyright protection (e.g. a book containing only facts) or the copyright of the work is expired, the Board will not issue a licence since none would be required. Before the Board can issue a licence, the applicant must demonstrate that reasonable efforts have been made to locate the copyright owner and the copyright owner cannot be located. The Board takes many factors into consideration in determining what a \"reasonable\" effort entails. For example, the Board will take into account whether the proposed use is commercial, whether the work's author is still living, and whether information about ownership could be found in publicly available records.\n\nThe Board can issue a licence for any rights belonging to the copyright owner. Any use that is not within the copyright owner's rights will not be issued a licence since none would be required. For example, no licence will be granted to copy an insubstantial portion of a work because it is not a use that is protected by copyright.\n\nAny particular licence will be specified to the needs of the applicant. For example, if the applicant asks for the authorization to distribute a film, the licence will read accordingly. Licences can also include permission to sub-license. For example, a film distribution licence can allow the licensee to enter into an agreement with a sub-distributor, provided the sub-distributor proceeds on the same terms as those set out in the licence.\n\nIf the Board decides to grant an application for a licence, it must also set appropriate terms and conditions for that licence. Generally, the licence will be valid only in Canada, for a specified amount of time, and involves a reasonable royalty payment (either upfront to a collective society or to an owner if one emerges). Sometimes, the licence will also contain attribution obligations, requiring the licensee to indicate: the name of the author, that the use is carried out pursuant to a licence obtained from the Board, and how the owner might obtain compensation for the use made.\n\nAccording to their website, the Board granted 217 licences and rejected 8 applications between 1990 and 2013. Rejections were usually because no licence was required, or because the applicant had not proven that the work had been published (only published works are eligible for a licence). Although 217 licences had been granted, the number of works implicated is likely much larger. A 2009 study revealed that the 421 applications filed to date pertained to roughly 12,640 different works (a collection of orphan works would commonly proceed under a single application). The study also found that many applications were withdrawn or abandoned because the copyright owner was found with the help of the Board or a collective society.\n\nAs with other works, the copyright duration for a photograph is the life of the author plus 50 years. Until June 2012, the copyright owner of an engraving, photograph or portrait was considered to be the person who ordered the work once payment was made. The Copyright Modernization Act repealed s. 13(2) such that the copyright is no longer held by the commissioner. Subject to a contract that says otherwise, the owner is now the photographer and the commissioner is granted limited rights to display and transmit the photograph without his or her permission.\n\nAccording to section 34(4) of the \"Copyright Act\", specific penalties will be decided by the court. Section 35(1) states that an infringer is liable for the financial gain made through infringement, and \"such damages to the owner of the copyright as the owner has suffered due to the infringement\"\nA copyright holder can instead elect to protect his/her copyright under section 38.1, which allows for \"a sum of not less than $100 or more than $5,000 as the court considers just.\" for all non-commercial infringement, and $500 up to $20,000 for each commercial infringement.\n\nIn addition to the civil penalties described above, Section 42(1) of the \"Copyright Act\" sets out a number of criminal offences. These primarily deal with infringement that involves sale or rental of copyrighted materials, and can result in fines of up to $1,000,000 or prison sentences of up to 2 years for indictment. For a summary conviction, the maximum fine is $25,000 and prison term is limited to 6 months.\n\nAccording to Section 44 of the \"Copyright Act\", copyright owners may apply to have copies of their work that, were they made in Canada would be infringing, and are about to be, or have been, imported into Canada dealt with by the Canada Border Services Agency. In these cases, such copies can be detained, and eventually destroyed or handed over to the copyright holder, at the discretion of the court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37101640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37101640", "title": "Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012", "text": "Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012\n\nThe Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012, officially recorded as Republic Act No. 10175, is a law in the Philippines approved on September 12, 2012. It aims to address legal issues concerning online interactions and the Internet in the Philippines. Among the cybercrime offenses included in the bill are cybersquatting, cybersex, child pornography, identity theft, illegal access to data and libel.\n\nWhile hailed for penalizing illegal acts done via the Internet that were not covered by old laws, the act has been criticized for its provision on criminalizing libel, which is perceived to be a curtailment in freedom of expression.\n\nOn October 9, 2012, the Supreme Court of the Philippines issued a temporary restraining order, stopping implementation of the Act for 120 days, and extended it on 5 February 2013 \"until further orders from the court.\"\n\nOn May 24, 2013, The DOJ announced that the contentious online libel provisions of the law had been dropped.\n\nOn February 18, 2014, the Supreme Court ruled that section 5 of the law decision was constitutional, and that sections 4-C-3, 7, 12 and 19 were unconstitutional.\n\nThe Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012 is the first law in the Philippines which specifically criminalizes computer crime, which prior to the passage of the law had no strong legal precedent in Philippine jurisprudence. While laws such as the Electronic Commerce Act of 2000 (Republic Act No. 8792) regulated certain computer-related activities, these laws did not provide a legal basis for criminalizing crimes committed on a computer in general: for example, Onel de Guzman, the computer programmer charged with purportedly writing the ILOVEYOU computer worm, was ultimately not prosecuted by Philippine authorities due to a lack of legal basis for him to be charged under existing Philippine laws at the time of his arrest.\n\nThe first draft of the law started in 2001 under the Legal and Regulatory Committee of the former Information Technology and eCommerce Council (ITECC) which is the forerunner of the Commission on Information and Communication Technology (CICT). It was headed by former Secretary Virgilio \"Ver\" Peña and the Committee was chaired by Atty. Claro Parlade (+). It was an initiative of the Information Security and Privacy Sub-Committee chaired by Albert Dela Cruz who was the President of PHCERT together with then Anti-Computer Crime and Fraud Division Chief, Atty. Elfren Meneses of the NBI. The administrative and operational functions was provided by the Presidential Management Staff (PMS) acting as the CICT secretariat. \n\nThis was superseded by several cybercrime-related bills filed in the 14th and 15th Congress. The Cybercrime Prevention Act ultimately was the product of House Bill No. 5808, authored by Representative Susan Yap-Sulit of the second district of Tarlac and 36 other co-authors, and Senate Bill No. 2796, proposed by Senator Edgardo Angara. Both bills were passed by their respective chambers within one day of each other on June 5 and 4, 2012, respectively, shortly after the impeachment of Renato Corona, and the final version of the Act was signed into law by President Benigno Aquino III on September 12.\n\nThe Act, divided into 31 sections split across eight chapters, criminalizes several types of offense, including illegal access (hacking), data interference, device misuse, cybersquatting, computer-related offenses such as computer fraud, content-related offenses such as cybersex and spam, and other offenses. The law also reaffirms existing laws against child pornography, an offense under Republic Act No. 9775 (the Anti-Child Pornography Act of 2009), and libel, an offense under Section 355 of the Revised Penal Code of the Philippines, also criminalizing them when committed using a computer system. Finally, the Act includes a \"catch-all\" clause, making all offenses currently punishable under the Revised Penal Code also punishable under the Act when committed using a computer, with severer penalties than provided by the Revised Penal Code alone.\n\nThe Act has universal jurisdiction: its provisions apply to all Filipino nationals regardless of the place of commission. Jurisdiction also lies when a punishable act is either committed within the Philippines, whether the erring device is wholly or partly situated in the Philippines, or whether damage was done to any natural or juridical person who at the time of commission was within the Philippines. Regional Trial Courts shall have jurisdiction over cases involving violations of the Act.\n\nA takedown clause is included in the Act, empowering the Department of Justice to restrict and/or demand the removal of content found to be contrary to the provisions of the Act, without the need for a court order. This provision, originally not included in earlier iterations of the Act as it was being deliberated through Congress, was inserted during Senate deliberations on May 31, 2012. Complementary to the takedown clause is a clause mandating the retention of data on computer servers for six months after the date of transaction, which may be extended for another six months should law enforcement authorities request it.\n\nThe Act also mandates the National Bureau of Investigation and the Philippine National Police to organize a cybercrime unit Lyle Harvey Espinas, staffed by special investigators whose responsibility will be to exclusively handle cases pertaining to violations of the Act, under the supervision of the Department of Justice. The unit is empowered to, among others, collect real-time traffic data from Internet service providers with due cause, require the disclosure of computer data within 72 hours after receipt of a court warrant from a service provider, and conduct searches and seizures of computer data and equipment. It also mandates the establishment of special \"cybercrime courts\" which will handle cases involving cybercrime offenses (offenses enumerated in Section 4(a) of the Act).The Supreme Court of the Philippines declares on February 18, 2014 that the libel provisions of this act is now legal.\n\nThe new Act received mixed reactions from several sectors upon its enactment, particularly with how its provisions could potentially affect freedom of expression, freedom of speech and data security in the Philippines.\n\nThe local business process outsourcing industry has received the new law well, citing an increase in the confidence of investors due to measures for the protection of electronic devices and online data. Media organizations and legal institutions though have criticized the Act for extending the definition of libel as defined in the Revised Penal Code of the Philippines, which has been criticized by international organizations as being outdated: the United Nations for one has remarked that the current definition of libel as defined in the Revised Penal Code is inconsistent with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and therefore violates the respect of freedom of expression.\n\nSenator Edgardo Angara, the main proponent of the Act, defended the law by saying that it is a legal framework to protect freedoms such as the freedom of expression. He asked the Act's critics to wait for the bill's implementing rules and regulations to see if the issues were addressed. He also added that the new law is unlike the controversial Stop Online Piracy Act and PROTECT IP Act. However, Senator TG Guingona criticized the bill, calling it a prior restraint to the freedom of speech and freedom of expression.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation has also expressed concern about the Act, supporting local media and journalist groups which are opposed to it. The Centre for Law and Democracy also published a detailed analysis criticizing the law from a freedom of expression perspective.\n\nSeveral petitions have been submitted to the Supreme Court questioning the constitutionality of the Act. However, on October 2, the Supreme Court deferred on acting on the petitions, citing the absence of justices which prevented the Court from sitting \"en banc\". The lack of a temporary restraining order meant that the law went into effect as scheduled on October 3. In protest, Filipino netizens reacted by blacking out their Facebook profile pictures and trending the hashtag #notocybercrimelaw on Twitter. Anonymous also defaced government websites, including those of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System and the Intellectual Property Office.\n\nOn October 8, 2012, the Supreme Court issued a temporary restraining order, stopping implementation of the Act for 120 days. In early December, 2012, the government requested the lifting of the TRO \n\nComputer-related Forgery —\n\n(i) The input, alteration, or deletion of any computer data without right resulting in inauthentic data with the intent that it be considered or acted upon for legal purposes as if it were authentic, regardless whether or not the data is directly readable and intelligible; or\n\n(ii) The act of knowingly using computer data which is the product of computer-related forgery as defined herein, for the purpose of perpetuating a fraudulent or dishonest design.\n\nThe Supreme Court scheduled the same amount of time on 15 January 2013 for oral arguments by the petitioners, and on 22 January by the Solicitor General. On 5 February 2013 The Supreme Court extended the temporary restraining order on the law, \"until further orders from the court.\"\n\nOn August 2013, the Supreme Court issued a resolution ordering that the controlling title of the Cybercrime Case will be \"Jose Jesus M. Disini Jr. et al. v. Secretary of Justice, et al.\"\n\nOn May 24, 2013, The DOJ announced that online libel provisions of the law have been dropped, as well as other provisions that \"are punishable under other laws already\", like child pornography and cybersquatting. The DOJ will endorse the revised law to the next 16th Congress of the Philippines.\n\nOn February 18, 2014, The Supreme Court ruled the online libel provision of the act to be constitutional, although it struck down other provisions, including the ones that violated the provisions on double jeopardy. The petitioners planned to appeal the decision.\nA Magna Carta for Philippine Internet Freedom was crowdsourced by Filipino netizens with the intent of, among other things, repealing the Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5366996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5366996", "title": "DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno", "text": "DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno\n\nDaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno, 547 U.S. 332 (2006), is a United States Supreme Court case involving the standing of taxpayers to challenge state tax laws in federal court. The Court unanimously ruled that state taxpayers did not have standing under Article III of the United States Constitution to challenge state tax or spending decisions simply by virtue of their status as taxpayers. Chief Justice John Roberts delivered the majority opinion (his fifth on the Court), which was joined by all of the justices except for Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who concurred separately.\n\nOn November 12, 1998, the city of Toledo, Ohio entered into a development agreement with auto manufacturer DaimlerChrysler, for it to construct a new Jeep assembly plant near its existing facility in exchange for various tax incentives. DaimlerChrysler was to receive approximately $280,000,000 in tax benefits, in the form of a ten-year exemption from certain property taxes and a credit applied against its state corporate franchise tax for certain investments. The Toledo Public and Washington Local school districts, in which the facilities were located, consented to the exemption.\n\nEighteen taxpayers subsequently filed suit in Lucas County Court of Common Pleas against DaimlerChrysler, the city and school districts, and other State of Ohio defendants, claiming that the state statutes that permitted the property tax exemption and the investment tax credit violated the Commerce Clause in Article One of the United States Constitution and provisions of the Ohio Constitution by granting preferential treatment to in-state investment and activity. The plaintiffs claimed that their personal injury resulted from the tax breaks diminishing the funds available to the city and State, which imposed a \"disproportionate burden\" on the plaintiffs.\n\nThe case was then removed to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio by the defendants on the basis of the federal question raised by the Commerce Clause claims. The plaintiffs filed a motion to remand the case back to state court, in part because of concerns that they could not meet the standing requirements of federal court. The District Court denied the motion, finding that at a minimum the taxpayer plaintiffs could proceed under the \"municipal taxpayer standing\" rule articulated in \"Massachusetts v. Mellon\", 262 U.S. 447 (1923).\n\nThe District Court then granted the defendants' motions to dismiss. The claims against the State defendants were barred by their Eleventh Amendment immunity, but were dismissed without prejudice so the plaintiffs could refile the claims in state court. The District Court ruled that the remaining claims all failed to establish that the tax statutes violated either the Ohio or U.S. Constitutions, and were accordingly dismissed with prejudice.\n\nOn appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, the dismissal was affirmed in part, and reversed as to the claims regarding the investment tax credit. The court ruled that the tax credit violated the Commerce Clause and enjoined its enforcement, because it coerced businesses that were already subject to Ohio's franchise tax to expand locally rather than out-of-state, at the expense of interstate commerce.\n\nThe Supreme Court granted certiorari to review the Sixth Circuit's decision, and additionally directed the parties to brief and argue on the issue of whether the plaintiff had the standing to challenge the investment tax credit in federal court. The Court unanimously vacated the Sixth Circuit in part, ruling that it had improperly reached the merits of the case without first determining the issue of standing. In a decision delivered by Chief Justice John Roberts and joined by seven justices, the Court held that the status of an individual as a state taxpayer does not establish the standing required by Article III of the United States Constitution for a challenge to state tax laws to be heard in federal court. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg filed a separate concurring opinion.\n\nThe Court stated that the power of federal courts to engage in judicial review was limited by the requirement that the case be an actual case or controversy under Article III. \"If a dispute is not a proper case or controversy, the courts have no business deciding it, or expounding the law in the course of doing so.\" Despite the plaintiffs' previous position regarding standing and the propriety of the federal court forum for their case, the Court furthermore stated that because the plaintiffs were now asserting standing, the burden was on them to establish it.\n\nThe plaintiffs had principally claimed that they had standing by virtue of their status as Ohio taxpayers, alleging that the investment tax credit injured them by \"deplet[ing] the funds of the State of Ohio to which the Plaintiffs contribute through their tax payments\" and thus \"diminish[ing] the total funds available for lawful uses and impos[ing] disproportionate burdens on\" them. The Court had in several prior cases denied federal taxpayers standing under Article III to object to a particular expenditure of federal funds simply because they are taxpayers. The Court believed that the rationales for rejecting federal taxpayer standing applied with equal force to state taxpayers, as a prior case had indicated. The municipal taxpayer standing established by \"Mellon\" was not available in claims that did not involve municipal action, where the plaintiffs challenged a state law and state tax credit.\n\nThe Court also observed that there was no standing where the alleged injury was not \"concrete and particularized,\" but was instead suffered \"in some indefinite way in common with people generally.\" In addition, there is also no standing where the injury is not \"actual or imminent,\" but is instead \"conjectural or hypothetical.\" The court believed that the plaintiffs' alleged injury was \"conjectural or hypothetical,\" because it required speculation that state legislators would respond to a reduction in revenue caused by the credit (a consequence the Court also found speculative, and unlikely) by increasing the plaintiffs' taxes. Establishing that this injury is redressable would furthermore require speculation that legislators would pass along the increase in revenue resulting from the abolition of the tax credit in the form of tax reductions to the plaintiffs. \"Neither sort of speculation suffices to support standing.\"\n\nThe Court rejected the argument that an exception for Commerce Clause challenges to state tax or spending decisions should exist, as an analogy to the Establishment Clause taxation challenge the Court had permitted in \"Flast v. Cohen\", 392 U.S. 83 (1968), because both constitutional clauses operate as a specific limit on the Taxing and Spending Clause. The Court explained that the right not to contribute money for the support of a religious establishment was \"fundamentally unlike\" whatever rights the plaintiffs may have under the Commerce Clause, and the comparison the plaintiffs attempted was \"at such a high level of generality that almost any constitutional constraint on government power would 'specifically limit' a State's taxing and spending power for \"Flast\" purposes.\" The injury alleged in \"Flast\" was instead the specific extraction of money from the plaintiff to spend in aid of a religion, an injury that could be redressed by an injunction, in contrast to that alleged in this case.\n\nJustice Ruth Bader Ginsburg filed a separate concurring opinion, in which she concurred in the Court's judgment, which she believed to be based on longstanding precedent, and in the balance of its opinion. However, she wrote separately to express a \"large reservation\" to the further limitations on standing that the Court had adopted in decisions dating from the late 1970s through the early 1990s, which she believed were not necessary to support the Court's ruling.\n"}
{"id": "202325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202325", "title": "Deep linking", "text": "Deep linking\n\nIn the context of the World Wide Web, deep linking is the use of a hyperlink that links to a specific, generally searchable or indexed, piece of web content on a website (e.g. \"<nowiki>http://example.com/path/page</nowiki>\"), rather than the website's home page (e.g., \"<nowiki>http://example.com</nowiki>\"). The URL contains all the information needed to point to a particular item, in this case the \"Example\" section of the English Wikipedia article entitled \"Deep linking\", as opposed to only the information needed to point to the highest-level home page of Wikipedia at codice_1.\n\nThe technology behind the World Wide Web, the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), does not actually make any distinction between \"deep\" links and any other links—all links are functionally equal. This is intentional; one of the design purposes of the Web is to allow authors to link to any published document on another site. The possibility of so-called \"deep\" linking is therefore built into the Web technology of HTTP and URLs by default—while a site can attempt to restrict deep links, to do so requires extra effort. According to the World Wide Web Consortium Technical Architecture Group, \"any attempt to forbid the practice of deep linking is based on a misunderstanding of the technology, and threatens to undermine the functioning of the Web as a whole\".\n\nSome commercial websites object to other sites making deep links into their content either because it bypasses advertising on their main pages, passes off their content as that of the linker or, like \"The Wall Street Journal\", they charge users for permanently valid links.\nSometimes, deep linking has led to legal action such as in the 1997 case of Ticketmaster versus Microsoft, where Microsoft deep-linked to Ticketmaster's site from its Sidewalk service. This case was settled when Microsoft and Ticketmaster arranged a licensing agreement.\nTicketmaster later filed a similar case against Tickets.com, and the judge in this case ruled that such linking was legal as long as it was clear to whom the linked pages belonged. The court also concluded that URLs themselves were not copyrightable, writing: \"A URL is simply an address, open to the public, like the street address of a building, which, if known, can enable the user to reach the building. There is nothing sufficiently original to make the URL a copyrightable item, especially the way it is used. There appear to be no cases holding the URLs to be subject to copyright. On principle, they should not be.\"\n\nWebsites built on technologies such as Adobe Flash and AJAX often do not support deep linking. This can cause usability problems for visitors to those sites. For example, they may be unable to save bookmarks to individual pages or states of the site, use the web browser forward and back buttons—and clicking the browser refresh button may return the user to the initial page.\n\nHowever, this is not a fundamental limitation of these technologies. Well-known techniques, and libraries such as SWFAddress and unFocus History Keeper, now exist that website creators using Flash or AJAX can use to provide deep linking to pages within their sites.\n\nProbably the earliest legal case arising out of deep-linking was the 1996 Scottish case of \"The Shetland Times vs. The Shetland News\", in which the \"Times\" accused the \"News\" of appropriating stories on the \"Times\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> website as its own.\n\nAt the beginning of 2006, in a case between the search engine Bixee.com and job site Naukri.com, the Delhi High Court in India prohibited Bixee.com from deeplinking to Naukri.com.\n\nThe most important and widely cited U.S. opinions on deep linking are the Ninth Circuit's rulings in \"Kelly v. Arriba Soft Corp.\" and \"Perfect 10, Inc. v. Amazon.com, Inc.\". In both cases, the court exonerated the use of deep linking. In the second of these cases, the court explained (speaking of defendant Google, whom Perfect 10 had also sued) why linking is not a copyright infringement under US law:\n\nGoogle does not…display a copy of full-size infringing photographic images for purposes of the Copyright Act when Google frames in-line linked images that appear on a user's computer screen. Because Google's computers do not store the photographic images, Google does not have a copy of the images for purposes of the Copyright Act. In other words, Google does not have any \"material objects…in which a work is fixed…and from which the work can be perceived, reproduced, or otherwise communicated\" and thus cannot communicate a copy. Instead of communicating a copy of the image, Google provides HTML instructions that direct a user's browser to a website publisher's computer that stores the full-size photographic image. Providing these HTML instructions is not equivalent to showing a copy. First, the HTML instructions are lines of text, not a photographic image. Second, HTML instructions do not themselves cause infringing images to appear on the user's computer screen. The HTML merely gives the address of the image to the user's browser. The browser then interacts with the computer that stores the infringing image. It is this interaction that causes an infringing image to appear on the user's computer screen. Google may facilitate the user's access to infringing images. However, such assistance raised only contributory liability issues and does not constitute direct infringement of the copyright owner's display rights. …While in-line linking and framing may cause some computer users to believe they are viewing a single Google webpage, the Copyright Act, unlike the Trademark Act, does not protect a copyright holder against acts that cause consumer confusion.\n\nIn December 2006, a Texas court ruled that linking by a motocross website to videos on a Texas-based motocross video production website did not constitute fair use. The court subsequently issued an injunction. This case, SFX Motor Sports Inc., v. Davis, was not published in official reports, but is available at 2006 WL 3616983.\n\nIn a February 2006 ruling, the Danish Maritime and Commercial Court (Copenhagen) found systematic crawling, indexing and deep-linking by portal site ofir.dk of real estate site Home.dk not to conflict with Danish law or the database directive of the European Union. The Court stated that search engines are desirable for the functioning of the Internet, and that, when publishing information on the Internet, one must assume—and accept—that search engines deep-link to individual pages of one's website.\n\nWeb site owners who don't want search engines to deep link, or want them only to index specific pages can request so using the Robots Exclusion Standard (robots.txt file). People who favor deep linking often feel that content owners who don't provide a robots.txt file are implying by default that they do not object to deep linking either by search engines or others. People against deep linking often claim that content owners may be unaware of the Robots Exclusion Standard or may not use robots.txt for other reasons. Sites other than search engines can also deep link to content on other sites, so some question the relevance of the Robots Exclusion Standard to controversies about Deep Linking. The Robots Exclusion Standard does not programmatically enforce its directives so it does not prevent search engines and others who do not follow polite conventions from deep linking.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1190346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1190346", "title": "Deferral", "text": "Deferral\n\nA deferral, in \"accrual accounting\", is any account where the asset or liability is not realized until a future date (accounting period), e.g. annuities, charges, taxes, income, etc. The deferred item may be carried, dependent on type of deferral, as either an asset or liability. See also accrual.\n\nDeferrals are the consequence of the revenue recognition principle which dictates that revenues be recognized in the period in which they occur, and the matching principle which dictates expenses to be recognized in the period in which they are incurred. Deferrals are the result of cash flows occurring before they are allowed to be recognized under accrual accounting. As a result, adjusting entries are required to reconcile a flow of cash (or rarely other non-cash items) with events that have not occurred yet as either liabilities or assets. Because of the similarity between deferrals and their corresponding accruals, they are commonly conflated.\n\n\nDeferred charge (or deferral) is cost that is accounted-for in latter accounting period for its anticipated future benefit, or to comply with the requirement of matching costs with revenues. \"Deferred charges\" include costs of starting up, obtaining long-term debt, advertising campaigns, etc., and are carried as a non-current asset on the balance sheet pending amortization. \n\"Deferred charges\" often extend over five years or more and occur infrequently unlike prepaid expenses, e.g. insurance, interest, rent. Financial ratios are based on the total assets excluding \"deferred charges\" since they have no physical substance (cash realization) and cannot be used in reducing total liabilities.\n\nA Deferred expense or prepayment, prepaid expense, plural often prepaids, is an asset representing cash paid out to a counterpart for goods or services to be received in a later accounting period. For example, if a service contract is paid quarterly in advance, at the end of the first month of the period two months remain as a deferred expense. In the deferred expense the early payment is accompanied by a related recognized expense in the subsequent accounting period, and the same amount is deducted from the prepayment. The deferred expense shares characteristics with accrued revenue (or \"accrued assets\") with the difference that an asset to be covered later are proceeds from a delivery of goods or services, at which such income item is earned and the related revenue item is recognized, while cash for them is to be received in a later period, when its amount is deducted from \"accrued revenues\".\n\nFor example, when the accounting periods are monthly, an 11/12 portion of an annually paid insurance cost is added to \"prepaid expenses\", which are decreased by 1/12 of the cost in each subsequent period when the same fraction is recognized as an expense, rather than all in the month in which such cost is billed. The not-yet-recognized portion of such costs remains as \"prepayments\" (assets) to prevent such cost from turning into a fictitious loss in the monthly period it is billed, and into a fictitious profit in any other monthly period.\n\nSimilarly, cash paid out for (the cost of) goods and services not received by the end of the accounting period is added to the \"prepayments\" to prevent it from turning into a fictitious loss in the period cash was paid out, and into a fictitious profit in the period of their reception. Such cost is not recognized in the income statement (\"profit and loss\" or P&L) as the expense incurred in the period of payment, but in the period of their reception when such costs are recognized as expenses in P&L and deducted from prepayments (assets) on balance sheets.\n\nDeferred revenue (or deferred income) is a liability, such as cash received from a counterpart for goods or services that are to be delivered in a later accounting period. When such income item is earned, the related revenue item is recognized, and the \"deferred revenue\" is reduced. It shares characteristics with \"accrued expense\" with the difference that a liability to be covered later is an obligation to pay for goods or services received from a counterpart, while cash for them is to be paid out in a later period when its amount is deducted from \"accrued expenses\".\n\nFor example, a company receives an annual software license fee paid out by a customer upfront on the January 1. However, the company's fiscal year ends on May 31. So, the company using accrual accounting adds only five months' worth (5/12) of the fee to its revenues in profit and loss for the fiscal year the fee was received. The rest is added to \"deferred income\" (liability) on the balance sheet for that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "23259871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23259871", "title": "Diktat", "text": "Diktat\n\nA diktat is a statute, harsh penalty or settlement imposed upon a defeated party by the victor, or a dogmatic decree. The term has acquired a pejorative sense, to describe a set of rules dictated by a foreign power or an unpopular local power. The phrases \"To impose its values\" or \"give orders\" can be synonymous with giving a diktat.\n\nThe term is from the German language, derived from the Latin past participle dictātum. \nIt arose from Dictatus Papae, which attempts to resolve the struggle of the priesthood and the Empire in the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nThe term was used for the first time in 1919 in a French newspaper about the Treaty of Versailles imposed on the defeated Germany. \nIt was particularly used in Germany to refer to that treaty. It was referred to as such because its terms were presented to Germany without allowing it to negotiate its terms. Other occurrences in Germany were the Treaty of Saint-Germain in 1919 and the Treaties of Tilsit in 1807, and in Czech and Slovak for the 1938 Munich Agreement.\n\nHowever, the term came into popular journalism use during the years of the Cold War where there was talk of the politburo diktats from Moscow to describe and characterize the commands by the bureaucrats of the former USSR towards its satellite countries.\n\nIt is also used in India with a very negative meaning. Police in Jharkhand have used it to describe rules enforced by local Maoists. Another use was in referring to a directive from the Drug Controller General of India’s concerning launches of new drugs.\n\nDiktat is sometimes used in Europe to refer to directives of governments against large groups as in the case of the dispute between the European Union and Microsoft regarding license information on how Windows communicates over a network.\n\nIn the Italian press, there is a wide use of diktat to refer to events of the political sphere. The term is used to refer to either union demands against politicians, to the demands of politicians towards its allies to achieve cohesion, or to refer to imposition of rules or acts of various kinds.\n\nRussian President Vladimir Putin has accused the United States of endangering the international order by trying to \"remake the whole world\" for its own, Putin excoriated the United States for escalating world conflicts by \"unilateral diktat\" and imposing sanctions that he said were aimed at pushing Russia toward \"economic weakness\", while he denied that Russia aspires to rebuild an empire or reclaim its Cold War-era stature as a superpower.\n"}
{"id": "26336905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26336905", "title": "Edinburgh Law Review", "text": "Edinburgh Law Review\n\nEdinburgh Law Review is a triannual academic journal published by Edinburgh University Press in January, May, and September of each year. It was founded in 1996 and focuses on international as well as Scots law.\n"}
{"id": "12476848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12476848", "title": "Employment consultant", "text": "Employment consultant\n\nAn employment consultant is an expert witness who advises courts and tribunals on employment related issues such as earnings, labour market analysis, residual earning capacity, and retraining. The main area involved is that of personal injury litigation where loss of earnings is an important component of a claim. Employment consultants give evidence on pre and post accident earnings, thus establishing a loss of earnings formula. Employment consultants also deal with sex, race and disability discrimination, matrimonial matters and any case involving a loss or dispute of earnings. Increasingly, pay parity is a growth area.\n\nUsually solicitors will use an employment report to quantify the loss of earnings or \"Smith v. Manchester\" awards.\n\nAn employment consultant, like other experts witnesses, may be instructed by the solicitors for the claimant, the defendant, or as a jointly instructed expert, and may be required to give evidence under oath at trials and tribunal hearings.\n\nAlthough employment consultants provide reports for many jurisdictions worldwide, the core areas are the countries using the common law system. Because of its different trial and compensation system for personal injury, the United States is less important than might be expected, and the main jurisdictions for which these experts prepare reports are England and Wales, Scotland, Republic of Ireland and South Africa. Most employment experts are based in the UK.\n\nThis type of expertise was a growth area from the mid-1980s to the end of the 1990s, but was adversely affected by changes in the United Kingdom, the most important area. These included the withdrawal of legal aid for most personal injury cases, which meant that lawyers operating on a \"no win no fee\" basis were less likely to take up claims or incur the additional costs. \n\nThe Civil Procedure Rules 1998 also meant that the need for an expert report had to be sanctioned by a District Judge, which, together with the introduction of joint instruction also reduced demand.\n\nIn the decade since the CPR a number of practitioners have diversified into associated areas such as case management, rehabilitation, and, increasingly, pay parity cases, following the wave of such cases initiated in the mid-2000s by trade unions and the controversial solicitor, Stefan Cross.\n\nA recent (2007) case of importance to employment consultants and personal injury solicitors is Van Wees v Karkour and Walsh. This dealt with the medical aspects of post-traumatic amnesia, but also clarified the financial impact of mild head injury even on those who remain capable of high level work. The judge in the case also made an important ruling that awards to women should not be based on their current lower earnings compared to men in the same occupation, since that would perpetuate inequality in the face of equal pay legislation.\n"}
{"id": "232687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232687", "title": "Federal law", "text": "Federal law\n\nFederal law is the body of law created by the federal government of a country. A federal government is formed when a group of political units, such as states or provinces join together in a federation, delegating their individual sovereignty and many powers to the central government while retaining or reserving other limited powers. As a result, two or more levels of government exist within an established geographic territory. The body of law of the common central government is the federal law.\n\nExamples of federal governments include those of Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Malaysia, Pakistan, Republic of India, Russia, the former Soviet Union and the United States.\n\nThe United States Constitution provides for a federal government that is superior to state governments with regard to its enumerated powers. These powers include the authority to govern international affairs, interstate commerce, the currency and national defense. After the American Civil War, the Fourteenth Amendment applied the Constitution's Bill of Rights to state governments. Legislation passed by Congress, an Executive Order of the President, or a decision of federal courts pursuant to the Constitution are federal law.\n\nThrough the system of checks and balances, it is the Supreme Court makes final decisions regarding federal laws regarding specific cases brought before them. United States federal laws are codified in the United States Code.\n"}
{"id": "11536500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11536500", "title": "Herman Oliphant", "text": "Herman Oliphant\n\nHerman Oliphant (1884–1939) was a professor of law. He started at the University of Chicago, going to Columbia University in 1922. He was originally from Forest, Indiana, the grandson of William Oliphant, an early pioneer of that area. Herman grew up on the family farm. In 1903, he graduated from Forest High School and attended Marion College. He returned home in 1905 to marry his childhood sweetheart, Julia Sims. In 1907, he graduated from Marion College and then went on to obtain degrees from Indiana University (1909) and his law degree from the University of Chicago in 1914. Shortly after his arrival at Columbia University, he wrote to the university's president, Nicholas Murray Butler, outlining some plans he had for reorganizing the curriculum of the law school. Essentially, his goal was to transform the school into a research center, placing particular emphasis on the interaction of the law and other social sciences. Under the administration of Huger Jervey, who became dean of the law school in 1924, Oliphant's plans were used as the basis for a reorganization of the law school.\n\nIn his 1928 inaugural address as President of the American Association of Law School, Herman Oliphant said: \"Our case material is a gold mine for scientific work. It has not been scientifically exploited... We should critically examine all the methods now used in any of the social sciences and having any useful degree of objectivity.\"\n\nIn 1932 he was co-author with Theodore S. Hope Jr. of \"Study of Day Calendars\" 1932, an in-depth look into how time effects trial cases.\n\nOliphant later went on to teach at Johns Hopkins University, and later became the chief counsel of the United States Treasury Department, serving in that capacity from 1934 to 1939. While serving in that position, he was regarded as an economic experimenter, and was the prime advocate of the Undistributed profits tax.\n\nWhile at the Treasury Department, he was lobbied by William Randolph Hearst to make cannabis illegal. Hearst had recently become heavily involved in synthetics based on petroleum hydrocarbons, and wanted to quash efforts from competing companies to make similar products from hemp seed oil. Although that theory has been promoted for Oliphant's push for the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937, his nephew Dr. Cleon O. Swayzee of Columbia University, in a 1984 interview stated two other reasons that took precedence for Oliphant's efforts. First was the influence of Oliphant's brother, Dr. Homer Oliphant, a physician who practiced in Forest and Frankfort, Indiana and who was promoting the theory as early as 1919 that smoking was dangerous for the health of mothers and unborn babies. Granted Oliphant didn't do anything about smoking cigarettes. The second reason was that in the midst of the Great Depression with limited employment opportunities this endeavor was a vehicle to discourage immigration particularly from Mexico.\n\nHe is generally regarded as a representative of American legal realism and is famous for his statement that the principle of \"stare decisis\" is no longer applicable. Although the approach could be implemented in a time when society was relatively simply structured, in the present age it should be abandoned. To this effect, Oliphant pleaded a scientific approach. In his opinion, the way a judge deals with a case can be qualified as a stimulus-response situation, in the sense that the judge reacts to the stimulus of the case brought to his attention.\n\nHe died on January 11, 1939, of heart disease at the age of 54. He is buried in Frankfort, Indiana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33590614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33590614", "title": "Hosuk Lee-Makiyama", "text": "Hosuk Lee-Makiyama\n\nHosuk Lee-Makiyama is a Brussels-based economist, trade lawyer and foreign policy commentator. He has written on subjects primarily relating to international trade, digital economy, intellectual property, World Trade Organization and EU-Asia relations, especially with China, Japan and Korea.\n\nLee-Makiyama has publicly supported EU's attempt to conclude bilateral free trade agreements with large trading blocs, and with economies in Asia \n. He is also renowned as an authority on electronic commerce, and was the first author to question the legality of internet censorship under WTO rules, and so far the only scholar to have argued the case in a Chinese academic journal. Lee-Makiyama was nominated by the readers of The Guardian as 'one of the 20 most influential people in the open internet's history'. He has also proposed a new trade agreement, International Digital Economy Agreement (IDEA), to replace the WTO IT Agreement (proposed by the European Commission to the WTO members in 2012).\n\nHe is currently active as director of the European Centre for International Political Economy (ECIPE). In the past, he also served as a diplomat in the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and represented the EU in the WTO and the UN.\n\nHe regularly comments in European, US and Chinese media.\n\n"}
{"id": "2977049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2977049", "title": "Indefeasible rights of use", "text": "Indefeasible rights of use\n\nIndefeasible right of use (IRU) is a permanent contractual agreement, that cannot be undone, between the owners of a communications system and a customer of that system. The word \"indefeasible\" means \"not capable of being annulled, or voided, or undone.\" The customer purchases the right to use a certain amount of the capacity of the system, for a specified number of years. IRU contracts are almost always long term, commonly lasting 20 to 30 years. The communication system can be a wire cable, such as submarine communications cable, or a fiber optic cable, or a satellite. Depending on the type of system the customer might be buying exclusive use of one, or more, wires in a wire cable, fibers in a fiber optic cable, or channels through a satellite. An IRU owner can unconditionally and exclusively use the relevant capacity of the IRU grantor’s network for the specified time period.\n\nThese contracts obligate the purchaser to pay a portion of the operating costs, and the costs of maintaining the cable, including any costs incurred repairing the cable after mishaps. The right of use is indefeasible, so the capacity purchased is also nonreturnable, and maintenance costs incurred become payable and irrefusable.\n\nThe IRU \"shall mean the exclusive, unrestricted, and indefeasible right to use the relevant capacity (including equipment, fibers or capacity) for any legal purpose.\" It refers to the bandwidth purchased after, for example, a submarine cable system has been sealed at the end of construction, and to the maintenance agreement (C&MA) among the owners. It is a way for the owners to capitalize the unused capacity or any unowned capacity, after the system comes into service.\n\nIn plainer English, the purchase of an IRU gives the purchaser the right to use some capacity on a telecommunications cable system, including the right to lease that capacity to someone else. Smaller companies that need a leased line between, say, London and New York do not buy an IRU – they lease capacity from a telecommunications company that themselves may lease a larger amount of capacity from another company (and so on), until at the end of the chain of contracts there is a company that has an IRU, or wholly owns a cable system.\n\n\"(extract from WSJ)\" Pioneered decades ago by AT&T, IRUs allowed competitors to gain access to the costly undersea cables that only AT&T could afford to build. There remains some controversy over booking IRUs as assets in an asset-swap transaction between companies. Since IRU's are technically rights to a physical part of a cable, they can be considered an asset, which means their cost isn't part of the company's operating results, but shows up under tangible assets. The IRU is counted as though it is a part of the physical plant of the business buying the IRU.\n\nThe Dark fiber (DF) IRU \"shall mean the exclusive, unrestricted, and indefeasible right to use one, a pair, or more strands of fiber of a fiber cable for any legal purpose.\" With an IRU contractual arrangement the buyer of the IRU can unconditionally, and exclusively, use the fibers of the IRU for a long time period.\n\nIn this case dark fiber is called \"dark\" since it has to be lit by the IRU owner, not the cable's owner.\n\nThe wholesale purchase of dark fiber has normally been accomplished by means of IRUs. Fiber cable owners do not normally sell their fiber but offer IRUs for up to 20 years for unrestricted use. 10 to 25 years corresponds to a typical lifetime of the Optical fiber cable systems. The up-front cost for the purchase of a 20-year IRU can be a one-time investment. It will normally be associated with ongoing obligations for shared maintenance. Usually, the IRU can be considered to be a physical asset, which can be resold, traded or used as collateral.\n\nFor regulatory reasons, generally only licensed carriers are allowed access to support structures, and to municipal rights of way.\n\nThe IRU contract defines detailed technical and performance specifications for the IRU fibers. More specifically, it includes dark fiber acceptance and testing procedures, the description of the dark fiber physical route, operating specifications for the dark fiber infrastructure, performance specifications (attenuation, Chromatic Dispersion, Polarization Mode Dispersion, Optical Return Loss), maintenance and restoration terms. These terms must be valid for the full duration of the IRU contract. Moreover, it includes specific actions and procedures in cases of changes on the IRU grantor’s fiber network, degradation of fiber performance etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55256227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55256227", "title": "John Andaman", "text": "John Andaman\n\nJohn Andaman or Jack Andaman (captured January 1858 and returned in the same year) was the name given to an Andaman native (or Mincopie as then termed) who was taken captive aboard a British navy ship near Interview Island on a survey of the Andaman Islands under Frederic J. Mouat. He was taken to Calcutta and returned to the place of his capture when ill health began to torment him. It has been suggested that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle described Tonga, an Andamanese native character, in his 1890 novel \"The Sign of Four\" based on Mouat's description of John Andaman.\nIn 1858, a British survey was undertaken to identify a suitable penal colony to deal with the large numbers of prisoners taken in the Indian Rebellion of 1857. The Andaman Islands were chosen. Although the islands had been surveyed by Robert Hyde Colebrooke and Archibald Blair in the past, it had not been permanently settled by the British. The survey aboard the \"Pluto\" began in November 1857 and was led by Frederic J. Mouat, George Playfair and Lieutenant J.A. Heathcote. The team also included French photographer Oscar Mallitte. When the group landed on Interview Island (Long Reef Island), they had judged to be a safe and friendly island on the accounts of J.H. Quigley titled \"Wanderings in the Islands of Interview, (Andaman), Little and Great Coco\" (1850). Mouat had asked Quigley if he would be interested to join the mission but he had refused. Quigley had reported the islanders to be very friendly and had written fantastic accounts of tigers, deer and fabulous plants which later led Mouat to make comparisons of the author with Baron Munchausen. While ashore, the team was attacked by the natives armed with arrows. They made a rapid exit and a second armed navy cutter moved in to keep the natives away. Heathcote was injured by an arrow to the thigh and in defence Mouat was forced to shoot a man he called the \"chief\". The natives finally pulled back but not before at least three were killed of which two of the bodies were taken aboard the navy boat. One of the natives, a strong swimmer, had managed to get quite close to the boat and when offered a strap and rope, he took it and came aboard. The crew called him \"Jack\" and the captive found company in \"Neptune\", the dog aboard the ship, an animal he was unfamiliar with.\n\nIn Calcutta, they found that John Andaman recognized none of the words in the vocabulary of the Andamanese compiled by R.H. Colebrooke. He imitated well and learnt to dress (to the point that he began to be ashamed of nudity, his original state), wash and always behaved with propriety. When shown a photograph of himself, he laughed and turned it around to see if his back was seen as well. Lady Canning wrote that he was \"gentle and tractable and imitates everything and is amused at everything from a glass of water upwards\". Pictures of John Andaman appeared in many places including the \"Illustrated London News\". \n\nCareful anthropological measurements were taken of John and published in the journals of various scholarly journals.\n\nMouat had photos of the two dead natives taken (and a copy went to Alexander von Humboldt who confirmed them to as \"Negrilloes\") and their skulls were preserved and taken with him to London where they were studied and described by Professor Richard Owen in 1863. \n\nAs for John Andaman, the government report stated:\n\nJohn suffered in Calcutta and frequently took ill. He had cholera and then a lung infection leading to a decision by the Governor General to have him sent back from where he had been taken. There had been hope that he would spread the message of his captors' kindness among the natives with whom the British had failed to make any peace. Nothing was heard again about John.\n\nFifty copies of the photographs taken by Oscar Mallitte both on the journey to the Andamans as well as at Calcutta were made and these were thought to have been lost until one set was discovered in 2005 by a new curator appointed to the Queen's Collection at Windsor Castle. The set includes three photos of John Andaman including one in which he is dressed in a navy uniform.\n\nIn his novel \"The Sign of Four\" (1890), Sir Arthur Conan Doyle uses deprecating language almost identical to that used by Mouat to describe the character Tonga, an Andamanese.\n\n"}
{"id": "13072246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13072246", "title": "John Joseph (bishop)", "text": "John Joseph (bishop)\n\nJohn Joseph (15 November 1932 – 6 May 1998) was the Roman Catholic Bishop of Faisalabad from 1984–1998 and was best known for committing suicide to protest the cruel treatment of Christians in Pakistan.\n\nJohn Joseph was born in Khushpur, Pakistan. He received his religious education at the Christ the King Seminary in Karachi and was ordained in Faisalabad on 18 January 1960. After completing a doctorate he went on to serve on the faculty of the Christ the King Seminary. On 24 October 1980 he was appointed Auxiliary Bishop of Faisalabad and ordained Bishop on 9 January 1981. On 9 January 1984 he became Bishop of Faisalabad. He committed suicide by shooting himself on 6 May 1998, in protest at the execution of a Christian man on trumped up blasphemy charges by Muslims in Pakistan.\n\nThree new publications on Bishop John Joseph have been published since the bishop's death. \"A Peaceful Struggle\" is a compilation of the bishop's writings on matters related to justice and peace. The 197-page book was compiled by the Faisalabad diocesan human rights office, led by Father Khalid Rashid Asi. A translation of the English-language book into Urdu has also been published.\nThe third book, \"Sermons in Blood,\" is a 110-page book written by labor activist Gulzar Wafa Chaudhry. Chaudhry attempts to keep alive the revolutionary spirit that Bishop Joseph tried to initiate in protest at the situation of Christians and other religious minority communities in Pakistan.\n\nA film showing Bishop John Joseph's struggles for minority rights was screened at the South Asian film festival in Kathmandu October 4–7, 2001. The 45-minute documentary \"A Sun Sets in\" was produced by Waseem Anthony and showed the life of the late Bishop, the first Punjabi bishop, and his struggle for Pakistani Catholics.\n\nThe Bishop John Joseph Memorial Hall in Darulaloom Jamia Rehmania madrassa in Faisalabad, was inaugurated on March 31, 2007. Bishop Joseph Coutts was present during the opening. No other Islamic seminary in the country has a building named after a Catholic priest.\n\nOn Bishop John Joseph's advice Mr. Aftab Alexander Mughal and Mr. Peter Jacob wrote a book, \"Section 295 C, Pakistan Penal Code – Study of the History, Effects and Cases under Blasphemy Laws in Pakistan\", which was published in 1995.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "3952534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3952534", "title": "Judge Advocate of the Fleet", "text": "Judge Advocate of the Fleet\n\nThe Judge Advocate of the Fleet was an appointed civilian judge who was responsible for the supervision and superintendence of the court martial system in the Royal Navy from 1663 to 2008. \n\nThe position dates to the sixteenth century but was filled on an occasional basis until 1663 when it became a permanent role. Appointments were by Admiralty Order and included an annual stipend worth £146 between 1663 and 1666, and £182 thereafter. From 1824 the Judge Advocate also held office as Counsel to the Admiralty.\n\nUntil 2004 the Judge Advocate shared responsibility for the naval court martial system with the Chief Naval Judge Advocate, a legally trained serving naval officer who was responsible for the appointment of judge advocates. However the Chief Naval Judge Advocate's post was abolished in 2004 following a ruling by the European Court of Human Rights that held that, as a serving naval officer, his position was insufficiently independent.\n\nThe role of 'Judge Advocate of the Fleet was taken over by the Judge Advocate General from 2004 onwards. It was formally abolished on 31 December 2008 under the Armed Forces Act 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "52021003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52021003", "title": "Korea Open Government License", "text": "Korea Open Government License\n\nKorea Open Government License (KOGL, , \"gong-gong nuri\") is one of the copyright licenses which allow distributing copyrighted public records. Because in the past there was no standard system about the copyrighted public records, it was a bit complicated that the procedure of getting copyright permission and making inquiry about the licenses. To simplify the complicated procedure and to make the standard system of the copyrighted public records, the Korean Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism developed the Korea Open Government License, KOGL.\n\nThe license scheme is similar in concept to the Creative Commons licenses.\n\nKOGL has four license category below:\n"}
{"id": "34890736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34890736", "title": "Law Institute of Lithuania", "text": "Law Institute of Lithuania\n\nThe Institute of Law () is a law research establishment, founded in 1991 by the Government of the Republic of Lithuania seeking to coordinate the reform of the legal system and law institutions, to combine it with the economic and social reorganization carried in the country. The founder of the Institute is the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania. The main areas of research interests of the Law Institute are as follows: public law (paying most attention to the problems of criminal law, constitutional law and criminal justice) and criminology. \n\nThe Institute performs the following functions while trying to achieve its aims:\n\nPast acting directors: \n\n"}
{"id": "56383743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56383743", "title": "List of law colleges in Bangladesh", "text": "List of law colleges in Bangladesh\n\nThere have some law colleges in Bangladesh which provides LLB and LLM degree under National University.\n\nHere is the list of Law Colleges in Bangladesh which conduct LLB and LLM courses under National University.\n"}
{"id": "8957792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8957792", "title": "List of patent attorneys and agents", "text": "List of patent attorneys and agents\n\nThis is a list of notable patent attorneys and agents, including, in the section below, fictional patent attorneys.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1270707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1270707", "title": "Microsoft Media Server", "text": "Microsoft Media Server\n\nMicrosoft Media Server (MMS), a Microsoft proprietary network-streaming protocol, serves to transfer unicast data in Windows Media Services (previously called NetShow Services). MMS can be transported via UDP or TCP. The MMS default port is UDP/TCP 1755.\n\nMicrosoft deprecated MMS in favor of RTSP (TCP/UDP port 554) in 2003 with the release of the Windows Media Services 9 Series, but continued to support the MMS for some time in the interest of backward compatibility. Support for the protocol was finally dropped in Windows Media Services 2008.\n\nFor several years developers of the SDP Multimedia download-tool reverse engineered the MMS protocol and published unofficial documentation for it. However, Microsoft finally released the protocol specification in February 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17951620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17951620", "title": "Millennium Stadium Charitable Trust", "text": "Millennium Stadium Charitable Trust\n\nThe Millennium Stadium Charitable Trust () is a charitable trust based in Wales, which was established 8 February 2001 and is registered with the Charity Commission. The Trust was established between the Millennium Stadium plc and the Millennium Commission when the Millennium Stadium was built in 1999.\n\nThe Trust assesses any application it receives against the following criteria: quality of life, knowledge and need, passion and value, leaving a legacy, life exchanges and working with disadvantaged people.\n\nThe Trust only supports applications from non-profit making organisations, voluntary organisations, charitable organisations, voluntary groups working alongside local authorities. Priority however is given to organisations working in disadvantaged communities and to youth programmes in sport, arts, the environment and the community. Local, regional and national organisations can apply for funding, and they can receive up to GB£2,000, £10,000 and £20,000 respectively.\n\nThe Trust does not support any project outside Wales, any operating costs of a project, projects for third party organisations, any requests for payment of debts, retrospective requests for grants, requests from individuals, profit making organisations or requests made solely by local authorities.\n\nThe predecessor trust was established in July 1996, to support local charitable activities in Wales and it received 10% of distributable profit from Millennium Stadium plc. The trust became the Millennium Stadium Charitable Trust on 8 February 2001, and its income also comes from a levy of GB£0.25 or 1%, whichever is greater, paid on every ticket that is sold at public events held at the Millennium Stadium. On 22 June 2007, the Chairman of the Millennium Stadium Charitable Trust, Tom Jones announced, \"The Trust has now been able to distribute £2 million to more than 500 individual projects\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19053", "title": "Mineral", "text": "Mineral\n\nA mineral is a naturally occurring chemical compound, usually of crystalline form and not produced by life processes. A mineral has one specific chemical composition, whereas a rock can be an aggregate of different minerals or mineraloids. The study of minerals is called mineralogy.\n\nMinerals are classified by variety, species, series and group, in order of increasing generality. As of November 2018, there are more than 5,500 known mineral \"species\"; 5,389 of these have been approved by the International Mineralogical Association (IMA). \n\nMinerals are distinguished by various chemical and physical properties. Differences in chemical composition and crystal structure distinguish the various species, which were determined by the mineral's geological environment when formed. Changes in the temperature, pressure, or bulk composition of a rock mass cause changes in its minerals. Within a mineral species there may be variation in physical properties or minor amounts of impurities that are recognized by mineralogists or wider society as a mineral \"variety\", for example amethyst, a purple variety of the mineral species quartz.\n\nMinerals can be described by their various physical properties, which are related to their chemical structure and composition. Common distinguishing characteristics include crystal structure and habit, hardness, lustre, diaphaneity, colour, streak, tenacity, cleavage, fracture, parting, specific gravity, magnetism, taste or smell, radioactivity, and reaction to acid.\n\nMinerals are classified by key chemical constituents; the two dominant systems are the Dana classification and the Strunz classification. Silicon and oxygen constitute approximately 75% of the Earth's crust, which translates directly into the predominance of silicate minerals. The silicate minerals compose over 90% of the Earth's crust. The silicate class of minerals is subdivided into six subclasses by the degree of polymerization in the chemical structure. All silicate minerals have a base unit of a [SiO] silica tetrahedron—that is, a silicon cation coordinated by four oxygen anions, which gives the shape of a tetrahedron. These tetrahedra can be polymerized to give the subclasses: orthosilicates (no polymerization, thus single tetrahedra), disilicates (two tetrahedra bonded together), cyclosilicates (rings of tetrahedra), inosilicates (chains of tetrahedra), phyllosilicates (sheets of tetrahedra), and tectosilicates (three-dimensional network of tetrahedra). Other important mineral groups include the native elements, sulfides, oxides, halides, carbonates, sulfates, and phosphates.\n\nOne definition of a mineral encompasses the following criteria:\n\n\nThe first three general characteristics are less debated than the last two.\n\nMineral classification schemes and their definitions are evolving to match recent advances in mineral science. Recent changes have included the addition of an organic class, in both the new Dana and the Strunz classification schemes. The organic class includes a very rare group of minerals with hydrocarbons. The IMA Commission on New Minerals and Mineral Names adopted in 2009 a hierarchical scheme for the naming and classification of mineral groups and group names and established seven commissions and four working groups to review and classify minerals into an official listing of their published names. According to these new rules, \"mineral species can be grouped in a number of different ways, on the basis of chemistry, crystal structure, occurrence, association, genetic history, or resource, for example, depending on the purpose to be served by the classification.\"\n\nThe Nickel (1995) exclusion of biogenic substances was not universally adhered to. For example, Lowenstam (1981) stated that \"organisms are capable of forming a diverse array of minerals, some of which cannot be formed inorganically in the biosphere.\" The distinction is a matter of classification and less to do with the constituents of the minerals themselves. Skinner (2005) views all solids as potential minerals and includes biominerals in the mineral kingdom, which are those that are created by the metabolic activities of organisms. Skinner expanded the previous definition of a mineral to classify \"element or compound, amorphous or crystalline, formed through \"biogeochemical \" processes,\" as a mineral.\n\nRecent advances in high-resolution genetics and X-ray absorption spectroscopy are providing revelations on the biogeochemical relations between microorganisms and minerals that may make Nickel's (1995) biogenic mineral exclusion obsolete and Skinner's (2005) biogenic mineral inclusion a necessity. For example, the IMA-commissioned \"Working Group on Environmental Mineralogy and Geochemistry \" deals with minerals in the hydrosphere, atmosphere, and biosphere. The group's scope includes mineral-forming microorganisms, which exist on nearly every rock, soil, and particle surface spanning the globe to depths of at least 1600 metres below the sea floor and 70 kilometres into the stratosphere (possibly entering the mesosphere). Biogeochemical cycles have contributed to the formation of minerals for billions of years. Microorganisms can precipitate metals from solution, contributing to the formation of ore deposits. They can also catalyze the dissolution of minerals.\n\nPrior to the International Mineralogical Association's listing, over 60 biominerals had been discovered, named, and published. These minerals (a sub-set tabulated in Lowenstam (1981)) are considered minerals proper according to the Skinner (2005) definition. These biominerals are not listed in the International Mineral Association official list of mineral names, however, many of these biomineral representatives are distributed amongst the 78 mineral classes listed in the Dana classification scheme. Another rare class of minerals (primarily biological in origin) include the mineral liquid crystals that have properties of both liquids and crystals. To date, over 80,000 liquid crystalline compounds have been identified.\n\nThe Skinner (2005) definition of a mineral takes this matter into account by stating that a mineral can be crystalline or amorphous, the latter group including liquid crystals. Although biominerals and liquid mineral crystals, are not the most common form of minerals, they help to define the limits of what constitutes a mineral proper. The formal Nickel (1995) definition explicitly mentioned crystallinity as a key to defining a substance as a mineral. A 2011 article defined icosahedrite, an aluminium-iron-copper alloy as mineral; named for its unique natural icosahedral symmetry, it is a quasicrystal. Unlike a true crystal, quasicrystals are ordered but not periodic.\n\nMinerals are not equivalent to rocks. A rock is an aggregate of one or more minerals or mineraloids. Some rocks, such as limestone or quartzite, are composed primarily of one mineral—calcite or aragonite in the case of limestone, and quartz in the latter case. Other rocks can be defined by relative abundances of key (essential) minerals; a granite is defined by proportions of quartz, alkali feldspar, and plagioclase feldspar. The other minerals in the rock are termed accessory, and do not greatly affect the bulk composition of the rock. Rocks can also be composed entirely of non-mineral material; coal is a sedimentary rock composed primarily of organically derived carbon.\n\nIn rocks, some mineral species and groups are much more abundant than others; these are termed the rock-forming minerals. The major examples of these are quartz, the feldspars, the micas, the amphiboles, the pyroxenes, the olivines, and calcite; except for the last one, all of these minerals are silicates. Overall, around 150 minerals are considered particularly important, whether in terms of their abundance or aesthetic value in terms of collecting.\n\nCommercially valuable minerals and rocks are referred to as industrial minerals. For example, muscovite, a white mica, can be used for windows (sometimes referred to as isinglass), as a filler, or as an insulator. Ores are minerals that have a high concentration of a certain element, typically a metal. Examples are cinnabar (HgS), an ore of mercury, sphalerite (ZnS), an ore of zinc, or cassiterite (SnO), an ore of tin. Gems are minerals with an ornamental value, and are distinguished from non-gems by their beauty, durability, and usually, rarity. There are about 20 mineral species that qualify as gem minerals, which constitute about 35 of the most common gemstones. Gem minerals are often present in several varieties, and so one mineral can account for several different gemstones; for example, ruby and sapphire are both corundum, AlO.\n\nMinerals are classified by variety, species, series and group, in order of increasing generality. The basic level of definition is that of mineral species, each of which is distinguished from the others by unique chemical and physical properties. For example, quartz is defined by its formula, SiO, and a specific crystalline structure that distinguishes it from other minerals with the same chemical formula (termed polymorphs). When there exists a range of composition between two minerals species, a mineral series is defined. For example, the biotite series is represented by variable amounts of the endmembers phlogopite, siderophyllite, annite, and eastonite. In contrast, a mineral group is a grouping of mineral species with some common chemical properties that share a crystal structure. The pyroxene group has a common formula of XY(Si,Al)O, where X and Y are both cations, with X typically bigger than Y; the pyroxenes are single-chain silicates that crystallize in either the orthorhombic or monoclinic crystal systems. Finally, a mineral variety is a specific type of mineral species that differs by some physical characteristic, such as colour or crystal habit. An example is amethyst, which is a purple variety of quartz.\n\nTwo common classifications, Dana and Strunz, are used for minerals; both rely on composition, specifically with regards to important chemical groups, and structure. James Dwight Dana, a leading geologist of his time, first published his \"System of Mineralogy\" in 1837; as of 1997, it is in its eighth edition. The Dana classification assigns a four-part number to a mineral species. Its class number is based on important compositional groups; the type gives the ratio of cations to anions in the mineral, and the last two numbers group minerals by structural similarity within a given type or class. The less commonly used Strunz classification, named for German mineralogist Karl Hugo Strunz, is based on the Dana system, but combines both chemical and structural criteria, the latter with regards to distribution of chemical bonds.\n\n, 5,389 mineral species are approved by the IMA. They are most commonly named after a person (45%), followed by discovery location (23%); names based on chemical composition (14%) and physical properties (8%) are the two other major groups of mineral name etymologies.\n\nThe word \"species\" (from the Latin \"species\", \"a particular sort, kind, or type with distinct look, or appearance\") comes from the classification scheme in \"Systema Naturae\" by Carl Linnaeus. He divided the natural world into three kingdoms – plants, animals, and minerals – and classified each with the same hierarchy. In descending order, these were Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Tribe, Genus, and Species.\n\nThe abundance and diversity of minerals is controlled directly by their chemistry, in turn dependent on elemental abundances in the Earth. The majority of minerals observed are derived from the Earth's crust. Eight elements account for most of the key components of minerals, due to their abundance in the crust. These eight elements, summing to over 98% of the crust by weight, are, in order of decreasing abundance: oxygen, silicon, aluminium, iron, magnesium, calcium, sodium and potassium. Oxygen and silicon are by far the two most important – oxygen composes 47% of the crust by weight, and silicon accounts for 28%.\n\nThe minerals that form are directly controlled by the bulk chemistry of the parent body. For example, a magma rich in iron and magnesium will form mafic minerals, such as olivine and the pyroxenes; in contrast, a more silica-rich magma will crystallize to form minerals that incorporate more SiO, such as the feldspars and quartz. In a limestone, calcite or aragonite (both CaCO) form because the rock is rich in calcium and carbonate. A corollary is that a mineral will not be found in a rock whose bulk chemistry does not resemble the bulk chemistry of a given mineral with the exception of trace minerals. For example, kyanite, AlSiO forms from the metamorphism of aluminium-rich shales; it would not likely occur in aluminium-poor rock, such as quartzite.\n\nThe chemical composition may vary between end member species of a solid solution series. For example, the plagioclase feldspars comprise a continuous series from sodium-rich end member albite (NaAlSiO) to calcium-rich anorthite (CaAlSiO) with four recognized intermediate varieties between them (given in order from sodium- to calcium-rich): oligoclase, andesine, labradorite, and bytownite. Other examples of series include the olivine series of magnesium-rich forsterite and iron-rich fayalite, and the wolframite series of manganese-rich hübnerite and iron-rich ferberite.\n\nChemical substitution and coordination polyhedra explain this common feature of minerals. In nature, minerals are not pure substances, and are contaminated by whatever other elements are present in the given chemical system. As a result, it is possible for one element to be substituted for another. Chemical substitution will occur between ions of a similar size and charge; for example, K will not substitute for Si because of chemical and structural incompatibilities caused by a big difference in size and charge. A common example of chemical substitution is that of Si by Al, which are close in charge, size, and abundance in the crust. In the example of plagioclase, there are three cases of substitution. Feldspars are all framework silicates, which have a silicon-oxygen ratio of 2:1, and the space for other elements is given by the substitution of Si by Al to give a base unit of [AlSiO]; without the substitution, the formula would be charge-balanced as SiO, giving quartz. The significance of this structural property will be explained further by coordination polyhedra. The second substitution occurs between Na and Ca; however, the difference in charge has to accounted for by making a second substitution of Si by Al.\n\nCoordination polyhedra are geometric representations of how a cation is surrounded by an anion. In mineralogy, coordination polyhedra are usually considered in terms of oxygen, due its abundance in the crust. The base unit of silicate minerals is the silica tetrahedron – one Si surrounded by four O. An alternate way of describing the coordination of the silicate is by a number: in the case of the silica tetrahedron, the silicon is said to have a coordination number of 4. Various cations have a specific range of possible coordination numbers; for silicon, it is almost always 4, except for very high-pressure minerals where the compound is compressed such that silicon is in six-fold (octahedral) coordination with oxygen. Bigger cations have a bigger coordination numbers because of the increase in relative size as compared to oxygen (the last orbital subshell of heavier atoms is different too). Changes in coordination numbers leads to physical and mineralogical differences; for example, at high pressure, such as in the mantle, many minerals, especially silicates such as olivine and garnet, will change to a perovskite structure, where silicon is in octahedral coordination. Other examples are the aluminosilicates kyanite, andalusite, and sillimanite (polymorphs, since they share the formula AlSiO), which differ by the coordination number of the Al; these minerals transition from one another as a response to changes in pressure and temperature. In the case of silicate materials, the substitution of Si by Al allows for a variety of minerals because of the need to balance charges.\n\nChanges in temperature and pressure and composition alter the mineralogy of a rock sample. Changes in composition can be caused by processes such as weathering or metasomatism (hydrothermal alteration). Changes in temperature and pressure occur when the host rock undergoes tectonic or magmatic movement into differing physical regimes. Changes in thermodynamic conditions make it favourable for mineral assemblages to react with each other to produce new minerals; as such, it is possible for two rocks to have an identical or a very similar bulk rock chemistry without having a similar mineralogy. This process of mineralogical alteration is related to the rock cycle. An example of a series of mineral reactions is illustrated as follows.\n\nOrthoclase feldspar (KAlSiO) is a mineral commonly found in granite, a plutonic igneous rock. When exposed to weathering, it reacts to form kaolinite (AlSiO(OH), a sedimentary mineral, and silicic acid):\n\nUnder low-grade metamorphic conditions, kaolinite reacts with quartz to form pyrophyllite (AlSiO(OH)):\n\nAs metamorphic grade increases, the pyrophyllite reacts to form kyanite and quartz:\n\nAlternatively, a mineral may change its crystal structure as a consequence of changes in temperature and pressure without reacting. For example, quartz will change into a variety of its SiO polymorphs, such as tridymite and cristobalite at high temperatures, and coesite at high pressures.\n\nClassifying minerals ranges from simple to difficult. A mineral can be identified by several physical properties, some of them being sufficient for full identification without equivocation. In other cases, minerals can only be classified by more complex optical, chemical or X-ray diffraction analysis; these methods, however, can be costly and time-consuming. Physical properties applied for classification include crystal structure and habit, hardness, lustre, diaphaneity, colour, streak, cleavage and fracture, and specific gravity. Other less general tests include fluorescence, phosphorescence, magnetism, radioactivity, tenacity (response to mechanical induced changes of shape or form), piezoelectricity and reactivity to dilute acids.\n\nCrystal structure results from the orderly geometric spatial arrangement of atoms in the internal structure of a mineral. This crystal structure is based on regular internal atomic or ionic arrangement that is often expressed in the geometric form that the crystal takes. Even when the mineral grains are too small to see or are irregularly shaped, the underlying crystal structure is always periodic and can be determined by X-ray diffraction. Minerals are typically described by their symmetry content. Crystals are restricted to 32 point groups, which differ by their symmetry. These groups are classified in turn into more broad categories, the most encompassing of these being the six crystal families.\n\nThese families can be described by the relative lengths of the three crystallographic axes, and the angles between them; these relationships correspond to the symmetry operations that define the narrower point groups. They are summarized below; a, b, and c represent the axes, and α, β, γ represent the angle opposite the respective crystallographic axis (e.g. α is the angle opposite the a-axis, viz. the angle between the b and c axes):\n\nThe hexagonal crystal family is also split into two crystal \"systems\" – the trigonal, which has a three-fold axis of symmetry, and the hexagonal, which has a six-fold axis of symmetry.\n\nChemistry and crystal structure together define a mineral. With a restriction to 32 point groups, minerals of different chemistry may have identical crystal structure. For example, halite (NaCl), galena (PbS), and periclase (MgO) all belong to the hexaoctahedral point group (isometric family), as they have a similar stoichiometry between their different constituent elements. In contrast, polymorphs are groupings of minerals that share a chemical formula but have a different structure. For example, pyrite and marcasite, both iron sulfides, have the formula FeS; however, the former is isometric while the latter is orthorhombic. This polymorphism extends to other sulfides with the generic AX formula; these two groups are collectively known as the pyrite and marcasite groups.\n\nPolymorphism can extend beyond pure symmetry content. The aluminosilicates are a group of three minerals – kyanite, andalusite, and sillimanite – which share the chemical formula AlSiO. Kyanite is triclinic, while andalusite and sillimanite are both orthorhombic and belong to the dipyramidal point group. These differences arise corresponding to how aluminium is coordinated within the crystal structure. In all minerals, one aluminium ion is always in six-fold coordination with oxygen. Silicon, as a general rule, is in four-fold coordination in all minerals; an exception is a case like stishovite (SiO, an ultra-high pressure quartz polymorph with rutile structure). In kyanite, the second aluminium is in six-fold coordination; its chemical formula can be expressed as AlAlSiO, to reflect its crystal structure. Andalusite has the second aluminium in five-fold coordination (AlAlSiO) and sillimanite has it in four-fold coordination (AlAlSiO).\n\nDifferences in crystal structure and chemistry greatly influence other physical properties of the mineral. The carbon allotropes diamond and graphite have vastly different properties; diamond is the hardest natural substance, has an adamantine lustre, and belongs to the isometric crystal family, whereas graphite is very soft, has a greasy lustre, and crystallises in the hexagonal family. This difference is accounted for by differences in bonding. In diamond, the carbons are in sp hybrid orbitals, which means they form a framework where each carbon is covalently bonded to four neighbours in a tetrahedral fashion; on the other hand, graphite is composed of sheets of carbons in sp hybrid orbitals, where each carbon is bonded covalently to only three others. These sheets are held together by much weaker van der Waals forces, and this discrepancy translates to large macroscopic differences.\n\nTwinning is the intergrowth of two or more crystals of a single mineral species. The geometry of the twinning is controlled by the mineral's symmetry. As a result, there are several types of twins, including contact twins, reticulated twins, geniculated twins, penetration twins, cyclic twins, and polysynthetic twins. Contact, or simple twins, consist of two crystals joined at a plane; this type of twinning is common in spinel. Reticulated twins, common in rutile, are interlocking crystals resembling netting. Geniculated twins have a bend in the middle that is caused by start of the twin. Penetration twins consist of two single crystals that have grown into each other; examples of this twinning include cross-shaped staurolite twins and Carlsbad twinning in orthoclase. Cyclic twins are caused by repeated twinning around a rotation axis. This type of twinning occurs around three, four, five, six, or eight-fold axes, and the corresponding patterns are called threelings, fourlings, fivelings, sixlings, and eightlings. Sixlings are common in aragonite. Polysynthetic twins are similar to cyclic twins through the presence of repetitive twinning; however, instead of occurring around a rotational axis, polysynthetic twinning occurs along parallel planes, usually on a microscopic scale.\n\nCrystal habit refers to the overall shape of crystal. Several terms are used to describe this property. Common habits include acicular, which describes needlelike crystals as in natrolite, bladed, dendritic (tree-pattern, common in native copper), equant, which is typical of garnet, prismatic (elongated in one direction), and tabular, which differs from bladed habit in that the former is platy whereas the latter has a defined elongation. Related to crystal form, the quality of crystal faces is diagnostic of some minerals, especially with a petrographic microscope. Euhedral crystals have a defined external shape, while anhedral crystals do not; those intermediate forms are termed subhedral.\n\nThe hardness of a mineral defines how much it can resist scratching. This physical property is controlled by the chemical composition and crystalline structure of a mineral. A mineral's hardness is not necessarily constant for all sides, which is a function of its structure; crystallographic weakness renders some directions softer than others. An example of this property exists in kyanite, which has a Mohs hardness of 5½ parallel to [001] but 7 parallel to [100].\n\nThe most common scale of measurement is the ordinal Mohs hardness scale. Defined by ten indicators, a mineral with a higher index scratches those below it. The scale ranges from talc, a phyllosilicate, to diamond, a carbon polymorph that is the hardest natural material. The scale is provided below:\n\nLustre indicates how light reflects from the mineral's surface, with regards to its quality and intensity. There are numerous qualitative terms used to describe this property, which are split into metallic and non-metallic categories. Metallic and sub-metallic minerals have high reflectivity like metal; examples of minerals with this lustre are galena and pyrite. Non-metallic lustres include: adamantine, such as in diamond; vitreous, which is a glassy lustre very common in silicate minerals; pearly, such as in talc and apophyllite; resinous, such as members of the garnet group; silky which is common in fibrous minerals such as asbestiform chrysotile.\n\nThe diaphaneity of a mineral describes the ability of light to pass through it. Transparent minerals do not diminish the intensity of light passing through them. An example of a transparent mineral is muscovite (potassium mica); some varieties are sufficiently clear to have been used for windows. Translucent minerals allow some light to pass, but less than those that are transparent. Jadeite and nephrite (mineral forms of jade are examples of minerals with this property). Minerals that do not allow light to pass are called opaque.\n\nThe diaphaneity of a mineral depends on the thickness of the sample. When a mineral is sufficiently thin (e.g., in a thin section for petrography), it may become transparent even if that property is not seen in a hand sample. In contrast, some minerals, such as hematite or pyrite, are opaque even in thin-section.\n\nColour is the most obvious property of a mineral, but it is often non-diagnostic. It is caused by electromagnetic radiation interacting with electrons (except in the case of incandescence, which does not apply to minerals). Two broad classes of elements (idiochromatic and allochromatic) are defined with regards to their contribution to a mineral's colour: Idiochromatic elements are essential to a mineral's composition; their contribution to a mineral's colour is diagnostic. Examples of such minerals are malachite (green) and azurite (blue). In contrast, allochromatic elements in minerals are present in trace amounts as impurities. An example of such a mineral would be the ruby and sapphire varieties of the mineral corundum.\nThe colours of pseudochromatic minerals are the result of interference of light waves. Examples include labradorite and bornite.\n\nIn addition to simple body colour, minerals can have various other distinctive optical properties, such as play of colours, asterism, chatoyancy, iridescence, tarnish, and pleochroism. Several of these properties involve variability in colour. Play of colour, such as in opal, results in the sample reflecting different colours as it is turned, while pleochroism describes the change in colour as light passes through a mineral in a different orientation. Iridescence is a variety of the play of colours where light scatters off a coating on the surface of crystal, cleavage planes, or off layers having minor gradations in chemistry. In contrast, the play of colours in opal is caused by light refracting from ordered microscopic silica spheres within its physical structure. Chatoyancy (\"cat's eye\") is the wavy banding of colour that is observed as the sample is rotated; asterism, a variety of chatoyancy, gives the appearance of a star on the mineral grain. The latter property is particularly common in gem-quality corundum.\nThe streak of a mineral refers to the colour of a mineral in powdered form, which may or may not be identical to its body colour. The most common way of testing this property is done with a streak plate, which is made out of porcelain and coloured either white or black. The streak of a mineral is independent of trace elements or any weathering surface. A common example of this property is illustrated with hematite, which is coloured black, silver, or red in hand sample, but has a cherry-red to reddish-brown streak. Streak is more often distinctive for metallic minerals, in contrast to non-metallic minerals whose body colour is created by allochromatic elements. Streak testing is constrained by the hardness of the mineral, as those harder than 7 powder the \"streak plate\" instead.\n\nBy definition, minerals have a characteristic atomic arrangement. Weakness in this crystalline structure causes planes of weakness, and the breakage of a mineral along such planes is termed cleavage. The quality of cleavage can be described based on how cleanly and easily the mineral breaks; common descriptors, in order of decreasing quality, are \"perfect\", \"good\", \"distinct\", and \"poor\". In particularly transparent minerals, or in thin-section, cleavage can be seen as a series of parallel lines marking the planar surfaces when viewed from the side. Cleavage is not a universal property among minerals; for example, quartz, consisting of extensively interconnected silica tetrahedra, does not have a crystallographic weakness which would allow it to cleave. In contrast, micas, which have perfect basal cleavage, consist of sheets of silica tetrahedra which are very weakly held together.\n\nAs cleavage is a function of crystallography, there are a variety of cleavage types. Cleavage occurs typically in either one, two, three, four, or six directions. Basal cleavage in one direction is a distinctive property of the micas. Two-directional cleavage is described as prismatic, and occurs in minerals such as the amphiboles and pyroxenes. Minerals such as galena or halite have cubic (or isometric) cleavage in three directions, at 90°; when three directions of cleavage are present, but not at 90°, such as in calcite or rhodochrosite, it is termed rhombohedral cleavage. Octahedral cleavage (four directions) is present in fluorite and diamond, and sphalerite has six-directional dodecahedral cleavage.\n\nMinerals with many cleavages might not break equally well in all of the directions; for example, calcite has good cleavage in three directions, but gypsum has perfect cleavage in one direction, and poor cleavage in two other directions. Angles between cleavage planes vary between minerals. For example, as the amphiboles are double-chain silicates and the pyroxenes are single-chain silicates, the angle between their cleavage planes is different. The pyroxenes cleave in two directions at approximately 90°, whereas the amphiboles distinctively cleave in two directions separated by approximately 120° and 60°. The cleavage angles can be measured with a contact goniometer, which is similar to a protractor.\n\nParting, sometimes called \"false cleavage\", is similar in appearance to cleavage but is instead produced by structural defects in the mineral, as opposed to systematic weakness. Parting varies from crystal to crystal of a mineral, whereas all crystals of a given mineral will cleave if the atomic structure allows for that property. In general, parting is caused by some stress applied to a crystal. The sources of the stresses include deformation (e.g. an increase in pressure), exsolution, or twinning. Minerals that often display parting include the pyroxenes, hematite, magnetite, and corundum.\n\nWhen a mineral is broken in a direction that does not correspond to a plane of cleavage, it is termed to have been fractured. There are several types of uneven fracture. The classic example is conchoidal fracture, like that of quartz; rounded surfaces are created, which are marked by smooth curved lines. This type of fracture occurs only in very homogeneous minerals. Other types of fracture are fibrous, splintery, and hackly. The latter describes a break along a rough, jagged surface; an example of this property is found in native copper.\n\nTenacity is related to both cleavage and fracture. Whereas fracture and cleavage describes the surfaces that are created when a mineral is broken, tenacity describes how resistant a mineral is to such breaking. Minerals can be described as brittle, ductile, malleable, sectile, flexible, or elastic.\n\nSpecific gravity numerically describes the density of a mineral. The dimensions of density are mass divided by volume with units: kg/m or g/cm. Specific gravity measures how much water a mineral sample displaces. Defined as the quotient of the mass of the sample and difference between the weight of the sample in air and its corresponding weight in water, specific gravity is a unitless ratio. Among most minerals, this property is not diagnostic. Rock forming minerals – typically silicates or occasionally carbonates – have a specific gravity of 2.5–3.5.\n\nHigh specific gravity is a diagnostic property of a mineral. A variation in chemistry (and consequently, mineral class) correlates to a change in specific gravity. Among more common minerals, oxides and sulfides tend to have a higher specific gravity as they include elements with higher atomic mass. A generalization is that minerals with metallic or adamantine lustre tend to have higher specific gravities than those having a non-metallic to dull lustre. For example, hematite, FeO, has a specific gravity of 5.26 while galena, PbS, has a specific gravity of 7.2–7.6, which is a result of their high iron and lead content, respectively. A very high specific gravity becomes very pronounced in native metals; kamacite, an iron-nickel alloy common in iron meteorites has a specific gravity of 7.9, and gold has an observed specific gravity between 15 and 19.3.\n\nOther properties can be used to diagnose minerals. These are less general, and apply to specific minerals.\n\nDropping dilute acid (often 10% HCl) onto a mineral aids in distinguishing carbonates from other mineral classes. The acid reacts with the carbonate ([CO]) group, which causes the affected area to effervesce, giving off carbon dioxide gas. This test can be further expanded to test the mineral in its original crystal form or powdered form. An example of this test is done when distinguishing calcite from dolomite, especially within rocks (limestone and dolostone respectively). Calcite immediately effervesces in acid, whereas acid must be applied to powdered dolomite (often to a scratched surface in a rock), for it to effervesce. Zeolite minerals will not effervesce in acid; instead, they become frosted after 5–10 minutes, and if left in acid for a day, they dissolve or become a silica gel.\n\nWhen tested, magnetism is a very conspicuous property of minerals. Among common minerals, magnetite exhibits this property strongly, and magnetism is also present, albeit not as strongly, in pyrrhotite and ilmenite. Some minerals exhibit electrical properties – for example, quartz is piezoelectric – but electrical properties are rarely used as diagnostic criteria for minerals because of incomplete data and natural variation.\n\nMinerals can also be tested for taste or smell. Halite, NaCl, is table salt; its potassium-bearing counterpart, sylvite, has a pronounced bitter taste. Sulfides have a characteristic smell, especially as samples are fractured, reacting, or powdered.\n\nRadioactivity is a rare property; minerals may be composed of radioactive elements. They could be a defining constituent, such as uranium in uraninite, autunite, and carnotite, or as trace impurities. In the latter case, the decay of a radioactive element damages the mineral crystal; the result, termed a \"radioactive halo\" or \"pleochroic halo\", is observable with various techniques, such as thin-section petrography.\n\nAs the composition of the Earth's crust is dominated by silicon and oxygen, silicate elements are by far the most important class of minerals in terms of rock formation and diversity. However, non-silicate minerals are of great economic importance, especially as ores.\n\nNon-silicate minerals are subdivided into several other classes by their dominant chemistry, which includes native elements, sulfides, halides, oxides and hydroxides, carbonates and nitrates, borates, sulfates, phosphates, and organic compounds. Most non-silicate mineral species are rare (constituting in total 8% of the Earth's crust), although some are relatively common, such as calcite, pyrite, magnetite, and hematite. There are two major structural styles observed in non-silicates: close-packing and silicate-like linked tetrahedra. close-packed structures is a way to densely pack atoms while minimizing interstitial space. Hexagonal close-packing involves stacking layers where every other layer is the same (\"ababab\"), whereas cubic close-packing involves stacking groups of three layers (\"abcabcabc\"). Analogues to linked silica tetrahedra include SO (sulfate), PO (phosphate), AsO (arsenate), and VO (vanadate). The non-silicates have great economic importance, as they concentrate elements more than the silicate minerals do.\n\nThe largest grouping of minerals by far are the silicates; most rocks are composed of greater than 95% silicate minerals, and over 90% of the Earth's crust is composed of these minerals. The two main constituents of silicates are silicon and oxygen, which are the two most abundant elements in the Earth's crust. Other common elements in silicate minerals correspond to other common elements in the Earth's crust, such as aluminium, magnesium, iron, calcium, sodium, and potassium. Some important rock-forming silicates include the feldspars, quartz, olivines, pyroxenes, amphiboles, garnets, and micas.\n\nThe base unit of a silicate mineral is the [SiO] tetrahedron. In the vast majority of cases, silicon is in four-fold or tetrahedral coordination with oxygen. In very high-pressure situations, silicon will be in six-fold or octahedral coordination, such as in the perovskite structure or the quartz polymorph stishovite (SiO). In the latter case, the mineral no longer has a silicate structure, but that of rutile (TiO), and its associated group, which are simple oxides. These silica tetrahedra are then polymerized to some degree to create various structures, such as one-dimensional chains, two-dimensional sheets, and three-dimensional frameworks. The basic silicate mineral where no polymerization of the tetrahedra has occurred requires other elements to balance out the base 4- charge. In other silicate structures, different combinations of elements are required to balance out the resultant negative charge. It is common for the Si to be substituted by Al because of similarity in ionic radius and charge; in those cases, the [AlO] tetrahedra form the same structures as do the unsubstituted tetrahedra, but their charge-balancing requirements are different.\n\nThe degree of polymerization can be described by both the structure formed and how many tetrahedral corners (or coordinating oxygens) are shared (for aluminium and silicon in tetrahedral sites). Orthosilicates (or nesosilicates) have no linking of polyhedra, thus tetrahedra share no corners. Disilicates (or sorosilicates) have two tetrahedra sharing one oxygen atom. Inosilicates are chain silicates; single-chain silicates have two shared corners, whereas double-chain silicates have two or three shared corners. In phyllosilicates, a sheet structure is formed which requires three shared oxygens; in the case of double-chain silicates, some tetrahedra must share two corners instead of three as otherwise a sheet structure would result. Framework silicates, or tectosilicates, have tetrahedra that share all four corners. The ring silicates, or cyclosilicates, only need tetrahedra to share two corners to form the cyclical structure.\n\nThe silicate subclasses are described below in order of decreasing polymerization.\n\nTectosilicates, also known as framework silicates, have the highest degree of polymerization. With all corners of a tetrahedra shared, the silicon:oxygen ratio becomes 1:2. Examples are quartz, the feldspars, feldspathoids, and the zeolites. Framework silicates tend to be particularly chemically stable as a result of strong covalent bonds.\n\nForming 12% of the Earth's crust, quartz (SiO) is the most abundant mineral species. It is characterized by its high chemical and physical resistivity. Quartz has several polymorphs, including tridymite and cristobalite at high temperatures, high-pressure coesite, and ultra-high pressure stishovite. The latter mineral can only be formed on Earth by meteorite impacts, and its structure has been composed so much that it had changed from a silicate structure to that of rutile (TiO). The silica polymorph that is most stable at the Earth's surface is α-quartz. Its counterpart, β-quartz, is present only at high temperatures and pressures (changes to α-quartz below 573 °C at 1 bar). These two polymorphs differ by a \"kinking\" of bonds; this change in structure gives β-quartz greater symmetry than α-quartz, and they are thus also called high quartz (β) and low quartz (α).\n\nFeldspars are the most abundant group in the Earth's crust, at about 50%. In the feldspars, Al substitutes for Si, which creates a charge imbalance that must be accounted for by the addition of cations. The base structure becomes either [AlSiO] or [AlSiO] There are 22 mineral species of feldspars, subdivided into two major subgroups – alkali and plagioclase – and two less common groups – celsian and banalsite. The alkali feldspars are most commonly in a series between potassium-rich orthoclase and sodium-rich albite; in the case of plagioclase, the most common series ranges from albite to calcium-rich anorthite. Crystal twinning is common in feldspars, especially polysynthetic twins in plagioclase and Carlsbad twins in alkali feldspars. If the latter subgroup cools slowly from a melt, it forms exsolution lamellae because the two components – orthoclase and albite – are unstable in solid solution. Exsolution can be on a scale from microscopic to readily observable in hand-sample; perthitic texture forms when Na-rich feldspar exsolve in a K-rich host. The opposite texture (antiperthitic), where K-rich feldspar exsolves in a Na-rich host, is very rare.\n\nFeldspathoids are structurally similar to feldspar, but differ in that they form in Si-deficient conditions, which allows for further substitution by Al. As a result, feldspathoids cannot be associated with quartz. A common example of a feldspathoid is nepheline ((Na, K)AlSiO); compared to alkali feldspar, nepheline has an AlO:SiO ratio of 1:2, as opposed to 1:6 in the feldspar. Zeolites often have distinctive crystal habits, occurring in needles, plates, or blocky masses. They form in the presence of water at low temperatures and pressures, and have channels and voids in their structure. Zeolites have several industrial applications, especially in waste water treatment.\n\nPhyllosilicates consist of sheets of polymerized tetrahedra. They are bound at three oxygen sites, which gives a characteristic silicon:oxygen ratio of 2:5. Important examples include the mica, chlorite, and the kaolinite-serpentine groups. The sheets are weakly bound by van der Waals forces or hydrogen bonds, which causes a crystallographic weakness, in turn leading to a prominent basal cleavage among the phyllosilicates. In addition to the tetrahedra, phyllosilicates have a sheet of octahedra (elements in six-fold coordination by oxygen) that balance out the basic tetrahedra, which have a negative charge (e.g. [SiO]) These tetrahedra (T) and octahedra (O) sheets are stacked in a variety of combinations to create phyllosilicate groups. Within an octahedral sheet, there are three octahedral sites in a unit structure; however, not all of the sites may be occupied. In that case, the mineral is termed dioctahedral, whereas in other case it is termed trioctahedral.\n\nThe kaolinite-serpentine group consists of T-O stacks (the 1:1 clay minerals); their hardness ranges from 2 to 4, as the sheets are held by hydrogen bonds. The 2:1 clay minerals (pyrophyllite-talc) consist of T-O-T stacks, but they are softer (hardness from 1 to 2), as they are instead held together by van der Waals forces. These two groups of minerals are subgrouped by octahedral occupation; specifically, kaolinite and pyrophyllite are dioctahedral whereas serpentine and talc trioctahedral.\n\nMicas are also T-O-T-stacked phyllosilicates, but differ from the other T-O-T and T-O-stacked subclass members in that they incorporate aluminium into the tetrahedral sheets (clay minerals have Al in octahedral sites). Common examples of micas are muscovite, and the biotite series. The chlorite group is related to mica group, but a brucite-like (Mg(OH)) layer between the T-O-T stacks.\n\nBecause of their chemical structure, phyllosilicates typically have flexible, elastic, transparent layers that are electrical insulators and can be split into very thin flakes. Micas can be used in electronics as insulators, in construction, as optical filler, or even cosmetics. Chrysotile, a species of serpentine, is the most common mineral species in industrial asbestos, as it is less dangerous in terms of health than the amphibole asbestos.\n\nInosilicates consist of tetrahedra repeatedly bonded in chains. These chains can be single, where a tetrahedron is bound to two others to form a continuous chain; alternatively, two chains can be merged to create double-chain silicates. Single-chain silicates have a silicon:oxygen ratio of 1:3 (e.g. [SiO]), whereas the double-chain variety has a ratio of 4:11, e.g. [SiO]. Inosilicates contain two important rock-forming mineral groups; single-chain silicates are most commonly pyroxenes, while double-chain silicates are often amphiboles. Higher-order chains exist (e.g. three-member, four-member, five-member chains, etc.) but they are rare.\n\nThe pyroxene group consists of 21 mineral species. Pyroxenes have a general structure formula of XY(SiO), where X is an octahedral site, while Y can vary in coordination number from six to eight. Most varieties of pyroxene consist of permutations of Ca, Fe and Mg to balance the negative charge on the backbone. Pyroxenes are common in the Earth's crust (about 10%) and are a key constituent of mafic igneous rocks.\n\nAmphiboles have great variability in chemistry, described variously as a \"mineralogical garbage can\" or a \"mineralogical shark swimming a sea of elements\". The backbone of the amphiboles is the [SiO]; it is balanced by cations in three possible positions, although the third position is not always used, and one element can occupy both remaining ones. Finally, the amphiboles are usually hydrated, that is, they have a hydroxyl group ([OH]), although it can be replaced by a fluoride, a chloride, or an oxide ion. Because of the variable chemistry, there are over 80 species of amphibole, although variations, as in the pyroxenes, most commonly involve mixtures of Ca, Fe and Mg. Several amphibole mineral species can have an asbestiform crystal habit. These asbestos minerals form long, thin, flexible, and strong fibres, which are electrical insulators, chemically inert and heat-resistant; as such, they have several applications, especially in construction materials. However, asbestos are known carcinogens, and cause various other illnesses, such as asbestosis; amphibole asbestos (anthophyllite, tremolite, actinolite, grunerite, and riebeckite) are considered more dangerous than chrysotile serpentine asbestos.\n\nCyclosilicates, or ring silicates, have a ratio of silicon to oxygen of 1:3. Six-member rings are most common, with a base structure of [SiO]; examples include the tourmaline group and beryl. Other ring structures exist, with 3, 4, 8, 9, 12 having been described. Cyclosilicates tend to be strong, with elongated, striated crystals.\n\nTourmalines have a very complex chemistry that can be described by a general formula XYZ(BO)TOVW. The TO is the basic ring structure, where T is usually Si, but substitutable by Al or B. Tourmalines can be subgrouped by the occupancy of the X site, and from there further subdivided by the chemistry of the W site. The Y and Z sites can accommodate a variety of cations, especially various transition metals; this variability in structural transition metal content gives the tourmaline group greater variability in colour. Other cyclosilicates include beryl, AlBeSiO, whose varieties include the gemstones emerald (green) and aquamarine (bluish). Cordierite is structurally similar to beryl, and is a common metamorphic mineral.\n\nSorosilicates, also termed disilicates, have tetrahedron-tetrahedron bonding at one oxygen, which results in a 2:7 ratio of silicon to oxygen. The resultant common structural element is the [SiO] group. The most common disilicates by far are members of the epidote group. Epidotes are found in variety of geologic settings, ranging from mid-ocean ridge to granites to metapelites. Epidotes are built around the structure [(SiO)(SiO)] structure; for example, the mineral \"species\" epidote has calcium, aluminium, and ferric iron to charge balance: CaAl(Fe, Al)(SiO)(SiO)O(OH). The presence of iron as Fe and Fe helps understand oxygen fugacity, which in turn is a significant factor in petrogenesis.\n\nOther examples of sorosilicates include lawsonite, a metamorphic mineral forming in the blueschist facies (subduction zone setting with low temperature and high pressure), vesuvianite, which takes up a significant amount of calcium in its chemical structure.\n\nOrthosilicates consist of isolated tetrahedra that are charge-balanced by other cations. Also termed nesosilicates, this type of silicate has a silicon:oxygen ratio of 1:4 (e.g. SiO). Typical orthosilicates tend to form blocky equant crystals, and are fairly hard. Several rock-forming minerals are part of this subclass, such as the aluminosilicates, the olivine group, and the garnet group.\n\nThe aluminosilicates –bkyanite, andalusite, and sillimanite, all AlSiO – are structurally composed of one [SiO] tetrahedron, and one Al in octahedral coordination. The remaining Al can be in six-fold coordination (kyanite), five-fold (andalusite) or four-fold (sillimanite); which mineral forms in a given environment is depend on pressure and temperature conditions. In the olivine structure, the main olivine series of (Mg, Fe)SiO consist of magnesium-rich forsterite and iron-rich fayalite. Both iron and magnesium are in octahedral by oxygen. Other mineral species having this structure exist, such as tephroite, MnSiO. The garnet group has a general formula of XY(SiO), where X is a large eight-fold coordinated cation, and Y is a smaller six-fold coordinated cation. There are six ideal endmembers of garnet, split into two group. The pyralspite garnets have Al in the Y position: pyrope (MgAl(SiO)), almandine (FeAl(SiO)), and spessartine (MnAl(SiO)). The ugrandite garnets have Ca in the X position: uvarovite (CaCr(SiO)), grossular (CaAl(SiO)) and andradite (CaFe(SiO)). While there are two subgroups of garnet, solid solutions exist between all six end-members.\n\nOther orthosilicates include zircon, staurolite, and topaz. Zircon (ZrSiO) is useful in geochronology as the Zr can be substituted by U; furthermore, because of its very resistant structure, it is difficult to reset it as a chronometer. Staurolite is a common metamorphic intermediate-grade index mineral. It has a particularly complicated crystal structure that was only fully described in 1986. Topaz (AlSiO(F, OH), often found in granitic pegmatites associated with tourmaline, is a common gemstone mineral.\n\nNative elements are those that are not chemically bonded to other elements. This mineral group includes native metals, semi-metals, and non-metals, and various alloys and solid solutions. The metals are held together by metallic bonding, which confers distinctive physical properties such as their shiny metallic lustre, ductility and malleability, and electrical conductivity. Native elements are subdivided into groups by their structure or chemical attributes.\n\nThe gold group, with a cubic close-packed structure, includes metals such as gold, silver, and copper. The platinum group is similar in structure to the gold group. The iron-nickel group is characterized by several iron-nickel alloy species. Two examples are kamacite and taenite, which are found in iron meteorites; these species differ by the amount of Ni in the alloy; kamacite has less than 5–7% nickel and is a variety of native iron, whereas the nickel content of taenite ranges from 7–37%. Arsenic group minerals consist of semi-metals, which have only some metallic traits; for example, they lack the malleability of metals. Native carbon occurs in two allotropes, graphite and diamond; the latter forms at very high pressure in the mantle, which gives it a much stronger structure than graphite.\n\nThe sulfide minerals are chemical compounds of one or more metals or semimetals with a sulfur; tellurium, arsenic, or selenium can substitute for the sulfur. Sulfides tend to be soft, brittle minerals with a high specific gravity. Many powdered sulfides, such as pyrite, have a sulfurous smell when powdered. Sulfides are susceptible to weathering, and many readily dissolve in water; these dissolved minerals can be later redeposited, which creates enriched secondary ore deposits. Sulfides are classified by the ratio of the metal or semimetal to the sulfur, such as M:S equal to 2:1, or 1:1. Many sulfide minerals are economically important as metal ores; examples include sphalerite (ZnS), an ore of zinc, galena (PbS), an ore of lead, cinnabar (HgS), an ore of mercury, and molybdenite (MoS, an ore of molybdenum. Pyrite (FeS), is the most commonly occurring sulfide, and can be found in most geological environments. It is not, however, an ore of iron, but can be instead oxidized to produce sulfuric acid. Related to the sulfides are the rare sulfosalts, in which a metallic element is bonded to sulfur and a semimetal such as antimony, arsenic, or bismuth. Like the sulfides, sulfosalts are typically soft, heavy, and brittle minerals.\n\nOxide minerals are divided into three categories: simple oxides, hydroxides, and multiple oxides. Simple oxides are characterized by O as the main anion and primarily ionic bonding. They can be further subdivided by the ratio of oxygen to the cations. The periclase group consists of minerals with a 1:1 ratio. Oxides with a 2:1 ratio include cuprite (CuO) and water ice. Corundum group minerals have a 2:3 ratio, and includes minerals such as corundum (AlO), and hematite (FeO). Rutile group minerals have a ratio of 1:2; the eponymous species, rutile (TiO) is the chief ore of titanium; other examples include cassiterite (SnO; ore of tin), and pyrolusite (MnO; ore of manganese). In hydroxides, the dominant anion is the hydroxyl ion, OH. Bauxites are the chief aluminium ore, and are a heterogeneous mixture of the hydroxide minerals diaspore, gibbsite, and bohmite; they form in areas with a very high rate of chemical weathering (mainly tropical conditions). Finally, multiple oxides are compounds of two metals with oxygen. A major group within this class are the spinels, with a general formula of XYO. Examples of species include spinel (MgAlO), chromite (FeCrO), and magnetite (FeO). The latter is readily distinguishable by its strong magnetism, which occurs as it has iron in two oxidation states (FeFeO), which makes it a multiple oxide instead of a single oxide.\n\nThe halide minerals are compounds in which a halogen (fluorine, chlorine, iodine, or bromine) is the main anion. These minerals tend to be soft, weak, brittle, and water-soluble. Common examples of halides include halite (NaCl, table salt), sylvite (KCl), fluorite (CaF). Halite and sylvite commonly form as evaporites, and can be dominant minerals in chemical sedimentary rocks. Cryolite, NaAlF, is a key mineral in the extraction of aluminium from bauxites; however, as the only significant occurrence at Ivittuut, Greenland, in a granitic pegmatite, was depleted, synthetic cryolite can be made from fluorite.\n\nThe carbonate minerals are those in which the main anionic group is carbonate, [CO]. Carbonates tend to be brittle, many have rhombohedral cleavage, and all react with acid. Due to the last characteristic, field geologists often carry dilute hydrochloric acid to distinguish carbonates from non-carbonates. The reaction of acid with carbonates, most commonly found as the polymorph calcite and aragonite (CaCO), relates to the dissolution and precipitation of the mineral, which is a key in the formation of limestone caves, features within them such as stalactite and stalagmites, and karst landforms. Carbonates are most often formed as biogenic or chemical sediments in marine environments. The carbonate group is structurally a triangle, where a central C cation is surrounded by three O anions; different groups of minerals form from different arrangements of these triangles. The most common carbonate mineral is calcite, which is the primary constituent of sedimentary limestone and metamorphic marble. Calcite, CaCO, can have a high magnesium impurity. Under high-Mg conditions, its polymorph aragonite will form instead; the marine geochemistry in this regard can be described as an aragonite or calcite sea, depending on which mineral preferentially forms. Dolomite is a double carbonate, with the formula CaMg(CO). Secondary dolomitization of limestone is common, in which calcite or aragonite are converted to dolomite; this reaction increases pore space (the unit cell volume of dolomite is 88% that of calcite), which can create a reservoir for oil and gas. These two mineral species are members of eponymous mineral groups: the calcite group includes carbonates with the general formula XCO, and the dolomite group constitutes minerals with the general formula XY(CO).\n\nThe sulfate minerals all contain the sulfate anion, [SO]. They tend to be transparent to translucent, soft, and many are fragile. Sulfate minerals commonly form as evaporites, where they precipitate out of evaporating saline waters. Sulfates can also be found in hydrothermal vein systems associated with sulfides, or as oxidation products of sulfides. Sulfates can be subdivided into anhydrous and hydrous minerals. The most common hydrous sulfate by far is gypsum, CaSO⋅2HO. It forms as an evaporite, and is associated with other evaporites such as calcite and halite; if it incorporates sand grains as it crystallizes, gypsum can form desert roses. Gypsum has very low thermal conductivity and maintains a low temperature when heated as it loses that heat by dehydrating; as such, gypsum is used as an insulator in materials such as plaster and drywall. The anhydrous equivalent of gypsum is anhydrite; it can form directly from seawater in highly arid conditions. The barite group has the general formula XSO, where the X is a large 12-coordinated cation. Examples include barite (BaSO), celestine (SrSO), and anglesite (PbSO); anhydrite is not part of the barite group, as the smaller Ca is only in eight-fold coordination.\n\nThe phosphate minerals are characterized by the tetrahedral [PO] unit, although the structure can be generalized, and phosphorus is replaced by antimony, arsenic, or vanadium. The most common phosphate is the apatite group; common species within this group are fluorapatite (Ca(PO)F), chlorapatite (Ca(PO)Cl) and hydroxylapatite (Ca(PO)(OH)). Minerals in this group are the main crystalline constituents of teeth and bones in vertebrates. The relatively abundant monazite group has a general structure of ATO, where T is phosphorus or arsenic, and A is often a rare-earth element (REE). Monazite is important in two ways: first, as a REE \"sink\", it can sufficiently concentrate these elements to become an ore; secondly, monazite group elements can incorporate relatively large amounts of uranium and thorium, which can be used in monazite geochronology to date the rock based on the decay of the U and Th to lead.\n\nThe Strunz classification includes a class for . These rare compounds contain organic carbon, but can be formed by a geologic process. For example, whewellite, CaCO⋅HO is an oxalate that can be deposited in hydrothermal ore veins. While hydrated calcium oxalate can be found in coal seams and other sedimentary deposits involving organic matter, the hydrothermal occurrence is not considered to be related to biological activity.\n\nIt has been suggested that biominerals could be important indicators of extraterrestrial life and thus could play an important role in the search for past or present life on the planet Mars. Furthermore, organic components (biosignatures) that are often associated with biominerals are believed to play crucial roles in both pre-biotic and biotic reactions.\n\nOn January 24, 2014, NASA reported that current studies by the \"Curiosity\" and \"Opportunity\" rovers on Mars will now be searching for evidence of ancient life, including a biosphere based on autotrophic, chemotrophic and/or chemolithoautotrophic microorganisms, as well as ancient water, including fluvio-lacustrine environments (plains related to ancient rivers or lakes) that may have been habitable. The search for evidence of habitability, taphonomy (related to fossils), and organic carbon on the planet Mars is now a primary NASA objective.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44515583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44515583", "title": "Mount Albert Borough Council v Johnson", "text": "Mount Albert Borough Council v Johnson\n\nMount Albert Borough Council v Johnson [1979] 2 NZLR 234 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding the Statute of Limitations defence in tort claims.\n\nSydney Construction purchased a 3-acre block of land in Mt Albert, with the intention of a residential development. At the time of the sale, the seller had informed Sydney that there was rubbish buried in the land.\n\nSydney subsequently subdivided the land, and built numerous houses there. On the section that Johnson ultimately purchased, six flats were constructed in 1967.\n\nIn 1970, Johnson purchased the flat, and within the year she had noticed subsidence in the building, and as a result she got an engineer to do an inspection.\n\nThe engineer did some test drilling, and discovered amongst other rubbish, gib board and motor vehicle parts buried in the foundation, requiring 20 steel poles to be drilled to rectify the subsidence.\n\nJohnson in 1973 sued the council for negligently approving the building permit. Then council filed for Sydney Construction to be made a third party, which Johnson later applied to have Sydney listed as a codefendant.\n\nThe High Court awarded Johnson $10,000 in damages.\n\nThe Council appealed.\n\nThe court dismissed the appeal.\n"}
{"id": "156737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=156737", "title": "Open Publication License", "text": "Open Publication License\n\nThe Open Publication License (OPL) was published by the Open Content Project in 1999 as a public copyright license for documents. It superseded the Open Content License, which was published by the Open Content Project in 1998. Starting around 2002-2003, it began to be superseded, in turn, by the Creative Commons licenses.\n\nIn 1998, the Open Content Project published a licence called the Open Content License, which was among the first (perhaps \"the\" first) public copyright licenses intended for \"content\" (i.e. documents) rather than for \"software\". The following year, it published the Open Publication License, which was intended to be an improvement upon the Open Content License.\n\nThe two licenses differ substantially: the Open Publication License is not a share-alike license while the Open Content License is; and the Open Publication License can optionally restrict the distribution of derivative works or restrict the commercial distribution of paper copies of the work or derivatives of the work, whereas the Open Content License forbids copying for profit altogether.\n\nIn June 2003, David A. Wiley, the founder of the Open Content Project, indicated that the Creative Commons licenses, which were developed in collaboration with lawyers, would be \"more likely to stand up in court\" than the Open Content Project licenses, which were not. He also announced that for this reason, he was joining Creative Commons and shutting down the Open Content Project, and that users thinking of using an Open Content Project license would be \"far better off using a Creative Commons license\".\n\nConfusingly, the Open Content License gives its abbreviation as \"OPL\" rather than \"OCL\", and that license is sometimes referred to by the former initialism. (\"OPL\", as used by the Open Content Project in 1998, stood for OpenContent Principles and License.) Nevertheless, the license's author has subsequently referred to that license as the \"OCL\", and to the Open Publication License as the \"OPL\". This ambiguity about the initialism \"OPL\" risks confusion, and the only sure way to know which of the two licenses is being referred to, in a given context, is to look for the full name.\n\nAccording to the Free Software Foundation, the Open Publication License \"can be used as a free documentation license\" and is \"a copyleft free documentation license provided the copyright holder does not exercise any of the 'LICENSE OPTIONS' listed in Section VI of the license.\" It is not, however, compatible with the GNU FDL.\n\nIn March 2004, the OPL v1.0 was determined by the Debian legal team to be incompatible with the Debian Free Software Guidelines.\n\nIn October 2004, an analysis of the Open Public License was published by Andrew M. St. Laurent, the author of \"Understanding Open Source and Free Software Licensing\".\n\nEric S. Raymond's book \"The Cathedral and the Bazaar\" (1999) was published under the Open Publication License. Bruce Perens used the license for the Bruce Perens' Open Source Series of books. The Linux Gazette used the Open Publication License. Additionally, the Fedora project used the license for their documentation until approximately 2009-2010 when the project switched to a CC-BY-SA license.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37948962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37948962", "title": "Posthumous trial", "text": "Posthumous trial\n\nA posthumous trial or post-mortem trial is a trial held after the defendant's death. Posthumous trials can be held for a variety of reasons, including the legal declaration that the defendant was the one who committed the crime, to provide justice for society of family members of the victims, or to exonerate a wrongfully convicted person after their death. Due to the heavy cost, they are usually held only under extraordinary circumstances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27480858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27480858", "title": "Recreational Charities Act 1958", "text": "Recreational Charities Act 1958\n\nThe Recreational Charities Act 1958 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that was repealed in its entirety by the Charities Act 2011.\n\nThe 1958 Act recognised the place of \"recreational facilities\" within English law on charitable trusts. In trusts law, there are requirements that such trusts contain both a charitable purpose and public benefit. \n\nCharitable trusts are invalid if they include \"purely recreational pastimes\", as in \"IRC v City of Glasgow Police Athletic Association\"; even though the purpose of the charity was to improve the efficiency of the police force, the fact that this included a recreational element invalidated the trust. In response to this case and \"IRC v Baddely\", the Recreational Charities Act was passed.\n\nThe Act provides, in Section 1, that \"it shall be and be deemed always to have been charitable to provide, or assist in the provision of, facilities for recreation or other leisure-time occupation, if the facilities are provided in the interests of social welfare\". This preserves the requirement of public benefit, with acceptable \"social welfare\" interests being where the facilities are dedicated to \"improving the conditions of life\" of the young, old, physically handicapped, poor or people with extenuating \"social or economic circumstances\". Section 1(3) provides the facilities at women's centres, community centres and sports grounds as particular examples of ones advancing \"social welfare\". In Section 2 the Act specifically covers trusts set up under the Miners’ Welfare Act 1952 before 17 December 1957, when the Act received its first reading in the House of Lords. Section 3 of the Act notes that the provisions do not validate, invalidate or disturb any charities established before 17 December, while Sections 4 and 5 note that the Act applies to both Northern Ireland and the Crown.\n\nSection 2, dealing with trusts established under the Miners' Welfare Act, was repealed by the Charities Act 2006, while Section 4 was repealed by the Northern Ireland Constitution Act 1973. The Act was subject to judicial interpretation in \"Guild v IRC\", where it was decided that recreational charities could be for public benefit if they impacted on the public in general, not just the categories of people listed in Section 1; Lord Keith stated \"the fact is that persons from all walks of life and all kinds of social circumstances may have their conditions of life improved by the provision of recreational facilities of a suitable nature\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42764448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42764448", "title": "Review of court decision in Indonesia", "text": "Review of court decision in Indonesia\n\nReview of court decision or abbreviated PK () is a legal action that can be taken by the convict (the person subject to the penalty) in a legal case against a court decision final and binding on the judicial system in Indonesia. The court ruling has called legally enforceable decision of the District Court is not filed an appeal, the decision of the High Court was not filed an appeal (legal action in the Supreme Court), or the decision of the Supreme Court. PK can not be taken to court decisions that have permanent legal force if the decision was a decision that states the defendant (person charged in the proceedings) are free from all charges.\n"}
{"id": "11437867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11437867", "title": "Sale of Goods Act", "text": "Sale of Goods Act\n\nSale of Goods Act (with its variations) is a stock short title used for legislation in Malaysia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the common law provinces of Canada relating to the sale of goods.\n\nThe Bill for an Act with this short title will have been known as a Sale of Goods Bill during its passage through Parliament.\n\nSale of Goods Acts may be a generic name either for legislation bearing that short title or for all legislation which relates to the sale of goods.\n\n\nNew Zealand's Sale of Goods Act was passed in 1908 by the Liberal Government of New Zealand. It has been amended several times, including by the Sale of Goods Amendment Act 1961 and the Sale of Goods Amendment Act 2003.\n\nThe Sale of Goods Act was replaced by the Consumer Rights Act 2015, which covers contracts entered into from 1 October 2015. The earlier legislation was:\n\n"}
{"id": "17669405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17669405", "title": "Solar lamp", "text": "Solar lamp\n\nA solar lamp also known as solar light or solar lantern, is a lighting system composed of an LED lamp, solar panels, battery, charge controller and there may also be an inverter. The lamp operates on electricity from batteries, charged through the use of solar photovoltaic panel.\n\nSolar-powered household lighting can replace other light sources like candles or kerosene lamps. Solar lamps have a lower operating cost than kerosene lamps because renewable energy from the sun is free, unlike fuel. In addition, solar lamps produce no indoor air pollution unlike kerosene lamps. However, solar lamps generally have a higher initial cost, and are weather dependent.\n\nSolar lamps for use in rural situations often have the capability of providing a supply of electricity for other devices, such as for charging cell phones. American investors have been working towards developing a $10 / unit solar lantern for replacement of kerosene lamps.\n\nSome solar photovoltaics use Monocrystalline silicon or polycrystalline silicon panels, while newer technologies have used thin-film solar cells. Since modern solar cells were introduced in 1954 at Bell labs, advances in solar cell efficiency at converting light into electric power, and modern manufacturing techniques combined with efficiencies of scale have led to an international growth of photovoltaics.\n\nAs of 2016, LED lamps use only about 10% of the energy an incandescent lamp requires. Efficiency in production of LED lamps has led to increased adoption as an alternative to other electric lighting.\n\nThe whole structure of solar lamp is shown in Figure 2. \n\nSolar panels are made out of silicon, a semiconductor material. A solar cell has two different layers of silicon. The lower layer has less electrons and hence has a slight positive charge due to the negative charge nature of electrons. In addition, the upper layer has more electrons and has slightly negative charge. A potential barrier is created between these two layers. \n\nWhen the stream of light particles called photons enter, they give up their energy to the atoms in the silicon. It promotes one electron from a covalent bond to a next energy level from upper layer to the lower layer. This promotion of an electron allows freer movement within the crystal which produces a current. More light shines through, more electrons move around hence more current flows between. This process is called photovoltaic and photoelectric effect. Photovoltaic systems directly convert sunlight into electricity. \n\nSolar panels are made out of layers of different materials, as you can see in Figure 2, in order of glass, encapsulate, crystalline cells, encapsulate, back sheet, junction box and lastly frame. The encapsulate keeps out moisture and contaminants which could cause problems.\n\nA battery is usually housed within a metal or plastic case. Inside the case are electrodes including cathodes and anodes where chemical reactions occur. A separator also exists between cathode and anode which stops the electrodes reacting together at the same time as allowing electrical charge to flow freely between the two. Lastly, the collector conducts a charge from the battery to outside.\n\nBatteries inside solar lamps usually use gel electrolyte technology with high performance in deep discharging, in order to enable use in extreme ranges of temperature. It may also use lead-acid, nickel metal hydride, nickel cadmium, or lithium.\n\nThis part of the lamp saves up energy from the solar panel and provides power when needed at night when there is no light energy available.\n\nIn general, the efficiency of photovoltaic energy conversion is limited for physical reasons. Around 24% of solar radiation of a long wavelength is not absorbed. 33% is heat lost to surroundings, and further losses are of approximately 15-20%. Only 23% is absorbed which means a battery is a crucial part of solar lamp.\n\nThis section controls the entire working systems to protect battery charge. It ensures, under any circumstances including extreme weather conditions with large temperature difference, the battery does not overcharge or over discharge and damage the battery even further.\n\nThis section also includes additional parts such as light controller, time controller, sound, temperature compensation, lighting protection, reverse polarity protection and AC transfer switches which ensure sensitive back-up loads work normally when outage occurs.\n\nLED lights are used due to their high luminous efficiency and long life. Under the control of a DC charge controller, non-contact control automatically turns on the light at dark and switches off at daytime. It sometimes also combines with time controllers to set curtain time for it to automatically switch light on and off.\n\nAs shown in Figure 3, the chip includes microchip(R), B-, B+, S- and S+. S+ and S- are both connected to solar panels with wire, one of which has plus charge and the other minus charge. B- and B+ are attached to two batteries in this case. The light will be shown through the LED light when all of these are connected.\n\nSolar lamps can be easier for customers to install and maintain as they do not require an electricity cable. Solar lamps can benefit owners with reduced maintenance cost and costs of electricity bills. Solar lamps can also be used in areas where there is no electrical grid or remote areas that lack a reliable electricity supply. There are many stories of people with lung disease, eye deterioration, burns and sometimes even death simply because they do not have a healthy alternative to light at night. Women have felt unsafe walking to the toilet outside after dark. Babies are being delivered by midwives using only a candle, and students cannot study when the sun goes down for lack of light leading to increased illiteracy and perpetual poverty. These are the realities for over 1 billion people around the globe. Lack of lighting equates to continued poverty felt around the world.\nIn solar energy lamp it converts light energy into electrical energy, i.e. It is convenient to our daily life.\n\nSolar energy output is limited by weather and can be less effective if it is cloudy, wet, or winter.\n\nHouseholds switching to solar lamps from kerosene lamps also gain from health risk associated with kerosene emissions. Kerosene often has negative impacts on human lungs.\n\nThe use of solar energy minimizes the creation pollution indoors, where kerosene have been linked to cases of health issues. However, photovoltaic panels are made out of silicon and other toxic metals including lead that can be difficult to dispose of.\n\nThe use of solar lights improves education for students who live in households without electricity. When the nonprofit Unite-To-Light donated solar-lamps to schools a remote region of Kwa Zulu Natal in South Africa test scores and pass rates improved by over 30%. The light gives students added time to study after dark.\n\nA 2017 experimental study in unelectrified areas of northern Bangladesh found that the use of solar lanterns decreased total household expenditure, increased children’s home-study hours and increased school attendance. It did not however improve the children's educational achievement to any large extent.\n\nThese lights provide a convenient and cost-effective way to light streets at night without the need of AC electrical grids for pedestrians and drivers. They may have individual panels for each lamp of a system, or may have a large central solar panel and battery bank to power multiple lamps.\n\nIn rural India, solar lamps, commonly called solar lanterns, using either LEDs or CFLs, are being used to replace kerosene lamps. Especially in areas where electricity is otherwise difficult to access, solar lamps are very useful and it will also improve life in rural areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "525928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=525928", "title": "Special agent", "text": "Special agent\n\nA special agent, in the United States, is usually a criminal investigator or detective for a federal, state, or county government who primarily serves in investigatory roles. Within the US federal law enforcement system, dozens of federal agencies employ federal law enforcement officers, each with different criteria pertaining to the use of the titles \"special agent\" and \"agent\".\n\nIn intelligence usage, agent refers to one who is recruited, trained, controlled, and employed to obtain and report information.\n\nIn general, only some agents are federal law enforcement officers and hold either arrest authority or the right to conduct minor criminal/non-criminal investigations. In some agencies, however, an agent may have both arrest and minor criminal/non-criminal investigatory authority but still have no authority to conduct major criminal investigations.\n\nOn the other hand, nearly all special agents are federal law enforcement officers, are distinctly empowered to conduct both major and minor criminal investigations, and hold arrest authority. Most special agents are authorized to carry firearms both on and off duty, but only some agents are authorized to do so, relying on \"professional courtesy\" when dealing with local law enforcement in areas where carrying a firearm is prohibited. In US federal law enforcement, the title of special agent is used almost exclusively for federal criminal investigators.\n\nWithin the U.S. government, the title of special agent designates a general investigator in GS-1810 job series, federal criminal investigator in the GS-1811, Diplomatic Security Service FS-2501 job series, or a counterintelligence operations specialist in the GS-0132 job series according to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) handbook. Special Agents typically have an undergraduate degree. They are usually empowered to carry firearms, make arrests, and investigate violations of federal laws. The titles of \"Agent\", \"Investigator\", and \"Background Investigator\" refer to all other 1800 series job series designations, including:\n\n\nAlthough some federal agencies have recently defined certain background investigators and other non-1811 personnel as \"special agents\", this is purely an administrative title with a different meaning, and does not confer actual Special Agent status on them. Although some 1810-series investigators are empowered in some circumstances to carry firearms and investigate crimes, they are not empowered to make arrests. In general, arrest authority is what distinguishes a traditional Special Agent (1811) from most other 1800 series personnel. There are exceptions: some 1800 series positions, such as Border Patrol Agents, Federal Air Marshals and Secret Service Uniformed Division Officers have the authority to enforce federal law, and thus have arrest authority. However, unlike the 1811 Criminal Investigators, or Special Agents, they do not have the authority to conduct major criminal investigations. In general, non-1811 personnel who wear a badge and a gun and have arrest authority are considered \"Agents\", while Criminal Investigators who carry a badge, gun, and credentials and have arrest authority are considered \"Special Agents\". All other 1800 personnel who conduct investigations (background or otherwise) and who do not have arrest authority are \"Investigators\", \"Background Investigators\", or \"Compliance Officers\", no matter what their administrative title might be.\n\nMost federal agencies, including the following, employ some type of special agent, investigator or background investigator:\n\n\nFederal law enforcement training can be divided into various categories, the most common being basic, agency-specific basic (ASB), advanced/specialized, and agency-advanced/specialized. To operate safely and effectively, U.S. special agents and criminal investigators must possess skills and knowledge regarding criminal and civil law and procedure, enforcement operations, physical techniques, and technical equipment, to mention a few. They must also be physically fit. While possession of a college degree can aid in obtaining employment in this profession, only extensive training provided at specialized facilities, combined with on-the-job training, can provide the skills and knowledge needed to perform the duties of a federal criminal investigator. As of 2012, there were 13,913 FBI agents, as of 2016, there were approximately 6,500 ICE-Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) agents, and as of 2011, there were 4,890 DEA agents in the United States.\n\nMost U.S. special agents and federal criminal investigators receive their basic training at the U. S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC), including ICE-HSI, ATF, IRS-CI, USMS, USSS, DSS, AFOSI, NCIS and OIGs. FLETC has facilities in Brunswick (Glynco), GA, Artesia, NM, Charleston, SC, and Cheltenham, MD. \n\nOnly DEA and FBI agents receive their basic training at Quantico. The FBI and DEA operate completely self-contained academies that provide all levels of training to their agents. These academies make no distinction between basic and agency-specific basic training. New FBI and DEA agents train at their academies for approximately five months before they begin their first investigative assignment. Both agencies' academies also provide advanced training in various subjects to other federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies.\n\nThe U. S. Department of Homeland Security’s FLETC, commonly pronounced \"flet-see\", is a consolidated training facility that provides basic and advanced training to the vast majority of U.S. special agents and other federal law enforcement personnel. The FLETC also provides advanced and specialized training for most federal, state, local, tribal and non-U.S. law enforcement agencies willing to share in the cost. The FLETC's basic training course for special agents, the Criminal Investigator Training Program (CITP), lasts about 13 weeks, and may be given to persons if required for self-protection, depending on changes to program content or holidays. Nevertheless, CITP only represents the beginning or basic training received by U.S. special agents not employed by the FBI, Federal Air Marshals, DEA, or USPIS.\n\nAfter completing the FLETC CITP, most agents immediately transition to training provided by their own agencies (hence the term agency-specific basic, or ASB), lasting another 2 to 16 weeks and sometimes longer, depending on the agency. Some smaller agencies, like the 64 Offices of Inspector General (OIGs), operate consolidated academies, such as the Inspector General Criminal Investigator Academy (IGCIA), through which specialized but common ASB-type skills and knowledge are more economically taught. So agents employed by the OIGs first attend CITP, then attend the IGCIA's IG Investigator Training Program (IGITP), then attend their own agencies' ASB training after completing IGITP, receiving a total of up to 16 weeks or more of training before conducting their first investigation. Many of the agencies utilizing FLETC maintain their individual academies for providing ASB and agency-specific advanced training on the same grounds as FLETC and share use of the same facilities. Some agencies, such as the U.S. Department of State's Diplomatic Security Service and the U.S. Secret Service, conduct their ASB training in separate agency-owned and operated facilities.\n\nAlthough a much smaller agency than the FBI or DEA, the U.S. Postal Inspection Service also operates a self-contained federal law enforcement training academy called the Career Development Division (CDD). Like FLETC and Quantico, USPIS CDD has been fully accredited by the Federal Law Enforcement Training Accreditation (FLETA). Like the other academies, CDD provides basic training to postal inspectors in firearms, legal use of force, driving training, crime scene management, controlled deliveries, felony arrests, case management, case development, informant management, and surveillance, but also incorporates agency-specific basic training to help prepare the USPIS candidates in enforcing postal laws and federal mail statutes such as mail fraud, mail theft, and other mail related crimes. In addition to basic training, CDD also provides advanced training for the postal inspectors, the uniformed postal police personnel, and the analysts.\n\nFor all U.S. special agents, training does not stop after basic and ASB. The career of a federal special agent is one of regular training in new legal issues and investigative techniques, and frequently includes quarterly, if not monthly, refresher training in hand-to-hand defensive tactics, the use of weapons of less than lethal force, and regular qualification in the use of firearms.\n\nNot all federal criminal investigators are called special agents. Some federal agencies entitle their investigators as criminal investigators but use the term interchangeably with special agent. Other federal agencies use different titles for the same 1811 criminal investigative job series. Series 1811 criminal investigators for the U.S. marshals are entitled deputy marshals. Series 1811 criminal investigators for the U.S Postal Inspection Service are called postal inspectors. These inspectors were originally called surveyors and received a title change in 1801 to special agent. In 1880, the U.S. Congress created the position of Chief Postal Inspector and renamed these special agents to postal inspectors. The first special agents in the United States were appointed in 1791 when the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to employ \"Special Agents\" for the purpose of examining the accounts and books of the Collectors of Customs. The position of Special Treasury Agent was created, and until 1860 submitted reports to the Department of Treasury, through the Collectors of Customs in the Customs District in which they were employed.\n\nThe titles special agent and secret agent are not synonymous. The title special agent is commonly the official title assigned to individuals employed in that capacity, especially by the U.S. agencies described above (and for the reasons described below), whereas secret agent is less of an official title, but is used to describe individuals employed or engaged in espionage. Special agents, like state, county, and municipal law enforcement officers, can, at various times, engage in secret or undercover activities as part of investigative operations, or counter-espionage assignments, during which they might be referred to as undercover agents. They may also be referred to, or refer to themselves, as criminal investigators, federal agents, U.S. Agents, U.S Special Agents, U.S. Federal Agents, agents, federal authorities, federal officers, federal investigators, or U.S. officers.\n\nCriminal Investigators of the U.S. Secret Service conduct criminal investigations pertaining to counterfeit U. S. currency, financial and electronic crimes, and are \"Special Agents\". But Secret Service Special Officers who assist Special Agents on protective details only and do not conduct criminal investigations of any kind are, like the USSS Uniformed Division Officers, only considered to be \"Agents\".\n\nAt the management level, the head of a region or office might be called a special agent in charge, abbreviated as an SAC or SAIC. The Deputy Special Agent in Charge (DSAC), acts as the operational manager for investigations and typically supervises Assistant Special Agents in Charge (ASAC's). First line supervisors may be called simply Supervisory Special Agent. Assistant Special Agent in Charge, abbreviated as ASAC, are second line supervisors.\n\nExactly which U.S. special agents have the broadest authority is a matter of debate. The issue of concurrent jurisdiction (in which multiple agencies have non-exclusive jurisdiction over a given set of the U.S. Code, such as the FBI, HSI and DEA in respect to drug laws) does not make the issue clearer. However, special agents of many agencies can often enforce Title 18 (general criminal code) of the US Code included in their agency specific duties. Some U.S. special agents have a larger number of Titles, or just different Titles, to enforce and with those titles sometimes include unique authorities.\n\nThe following are some examples of unique authorities that agency-specific special agents possess: Administrative subpoena powers. Department of Defense and any military special agents are authorized to enforce the UCMJ. Title 19 designation authorizes HSI special agents, CBP officers, Border Patrol Agents to perform border searches, which require no suspicion or warrant.\n\nSome agencies have been designated lead agency by the Attorney General over particular types of investigations. The FBI usually is the lead in public corruption cases involving elected government officials. In another instance, HSI is normally the lead agency in matters with a clear nexus to the U.S. border, including weapons and narcotics smuggling; financial crimes, money laundering and bulk cash smuggling; human trafficking or smuggling; counter-terrorism; counter proliferation; cybercrime; transnational gang activity; commercial fraud and intellectual property theft; human rights violations; immigration, document and benefit fraud; international art and antiquity theft; and import/export violations.\n\nMany exclusive jurisdictions also exist. In these cases, only one criminal investigative agency is authorized or assigned jurisdiction over a particular Title or type of investigation.\n\nSpecial agents of the ATF, FBI, ICE-Homeland Security Investigations, DEA, USSS, DSS, and USMS not only have the power to enforce the General Criminal Code (Title 18), but also applicable state and local laws if authorized by the state in which they are operating. Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS), United States Army Criminal Investigation Command (USACIDC), United States Army Counterintelligence, Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS), and U.S. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) special agents not only investigate statutes within the United States Code and state and local laws with a nexus to their branch, but are also tasked with enforcing the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), a jurisdiction not held by most of the larger federal agencies. All DCIS, USACIDC, Army Counterintelligence, NCIS, and AFOSI special agents enjoy statutory law enforcement authority, although civilian and military agents derive their principal arrest authority from different federal statutes. Other special agents, such as those employed by the National Park Service, have jurisdiction over crimes committed within the boundaries of or have a nexus to the lands managed by their agency or department only. Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Special Agents have administrative arrest powers under the Immigration and Nationality Act. They can administratively arrest and detain aliens for violations of United States immigration laws pending federal removal (deportation) proceedings. HSI Special Agents can also seize merchandise and articles introduced into the United States contrary to U.S. laws under Title 19 of the United States Code.\n\nCertain active-duty special agents employed by the military have broad authority, when the nexus of the violation they are investigating occurred on military-controlled areas or there is a military connection.\n\nAll of the major Class I railroads, most regional carriers, and some local railways employ their own police departments whose officers carry the title special agent. Railroad special agents are commissioned by the governor or other agency of the state they are employed in, are armed, and carry state arrest powers in all states in which their employing railroad owns property, if authorized by the state. Their primary concern is policing crimes against the railroad, although they sometimes have the authority to police the general public, make arrests on public property, and enforce applicable local, state, or federal laws when necessary.\n\nThe BNSF Police Department, Union Pacific Police Department, and Amtrak Police, among other departments, all utilize the rank/title of \"Special Agent\".\n\nRailroad police and the term special agent, along with the Pinkerton Detective Agency, were models for the FBI when it was created in 1907.\n\nA state or municipal criminal investigator can also be a special agent if so titled by the employing agency. Some examples include the Alabama Department of Public Safety's Alabama Bureau of Investigation, Illinois Department of Revenue's Bureau of Criminal Investigation, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, Ohio Attorney General's Office, Iowa Department of Public Safety, Virginia Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control Bureau of Law Enforcement, Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.\n\nSeveral Native American tribes also employ special agents as criminal investigators, court investigators, or gaming investigators, and some are deputized as special federal officers of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.\n\nSpecial Agents, particularly those within the FBI, have been depicted in popular entertainment for years.\n\nThe title \"assistant special agent in charge\" and its acronym \"ASAC\" are stated frequently throughout the TV series \"Breaking Bad\". For example, in Season 1 through Season 4, both Hank Schrader and Gus Fring are shown to be friendly with Hank's boss, ASAC George Merkert, and in Season 4 Episode 12 \"End Times\", Steve Gomez tells Dennis the \"ASAC\" is being pressured to search Gus's laundry for drugs. In Season 5, Hank – who is proud to have been promoted to the job vacated by his ousted boss – repeatedly chants \"ASAC Schrader\" to his baby niece Holly.\n\nIn the TV series \"White Collar\", Peter Burke is the \"Special Agent in Charge\" (promoted from assistant special agent in charge at the end of Season 6) and the head of the Manhattan White Collar Division.\n\nIn the TV series \"The X Files\", the title \"special agent\" is given to both Fox Mulder and Dana Scully of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The title is referenced by them numerous times throughout each episode.\n\nThe main character from the TV series \"Twin Peaks\", is FBI Special Agent \"Dale Cooper\", and also, other FBI special agents make numerous cameos throughout the series, and its prequel movie, \"\".\n"}
{"id": "11098589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11098589", "title": "TONO", "text": "TONO\n\nTONO is a Norwegian corporation that administers copyrights for music in Norway.\n\nIt is owned and governed by its members; composers, music publishers and text-writers. Through the managing agreement the originators give TONO an exclusive right to administer the members' performing rights in Norway. \n\nBy 2006 the number of members reached about 14,000, through agreements of reciprocation with about 60 other corporations, organised under the umbrella-organisation CISAC. TONO \"de facto\" manages the whole world-repertoire. TONO was originally created in 1928 under the name of \"Norsk Komponistforenings Internasjonale Musikkbyrå\". Managing of mechanical rights is transferred to NCB, \"Nordisk Copyright Byrå\".\n\nNorway has ratified the Berne Convention protecting literary and artistic productions. Furthermore, the convention’s articles are continued in Norwegian law through \"Lov om opphavsrett til åndsverk\" 12. mai Nr.2 1961 (åndsverkloven). The law provides the originator an exclusive right to make productions accessible to an audience. Thereby also granting the originator an exclusive right to consent in public use of his or hers productions. According to the law the production is made accessible when it is performed publicly. An important principle of the Berne Convention is that foreign originators, whose country has ratified the convention, as the same protection has national originators.\n\nOn this legal background TONO collects amends for broadcasting and other public use of musical productions. Responsible for paying the fee is the person responsible for making the production accessible to the public. The fees are then distributed to each originator individually. The deductions are made possible by reports made by those responsible for making the productions accessible. The reports contain information of the productions that have been used as well as frequency. As a result of TONO being a non-profit organisation, over 80% of the total income is transferred to the originators. The net result transferred to the originators in 2005 was .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55561", "title": "Tariff of 1789", "text": "Tariff of 1789\n\nThe Tariff Act of 1789, was the first major Act passed in the United States under its present Constitution of 1789 and had two purposes as stated in Section I of the Act which reads as follows;\n\nWhereas it is necessary for that support of government, for the discharge of the debts of the United States, and the encouragement and protection of manufactures, that duties be laid on goods, wares and merchandise\n\nThe Federal legislature, acting under the recently ratified US Constitution, authorized the collection of tariff and tonnage duties to meet the operating costs of the new central government, to provide funds to pay the interest and principal on revolutionary war debts inherited from the Continental Congress. It also provided a degree of protection. \"The protective acts of the states furnished the experience on which the national legislators based their proceedings.\" The general range of duties was by no means such as would have been thought protective in later days; but the intention to protect was there.\nThe debates over the purpose of the tariff exposed the sectional interests at stake: Northern manufacturers favored high duties to protect industry; Southern planters desired a low tariff that would foster cheap consumer imports. The final bill extracted concessions from both interests, but delivered a distinct advantage to maritime and manufacturing regions of the country.\nRepresentative James Madison of Virginia navigated to passage, but was unable to insert provisions that would have discriminated against British imports and shift the carrying trade to French and American vessels.\nThe Tariff Bill was passed in the House by a vote of 31-19 on July 1, 1789; the resultant enrolled Bill was signed by the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate on July 2, 1789; and President Washington signed the Act in law on July 4, 1789.\n\nThe American Revolution was followed by an economic reorganization, which carried in its wake a period of uncertainty and hard times. During the conflict, labor and investment had been diverted from agriculture and legitimate trade to manufacturing and privateers. Men had gone into occupations that ceased with the end of the war. Lowered prices, resulting from the cessation of war demands, in combination with the importation of the cheaper goods of Europe, were fast ruining such infant manufacturing concerns as had sprung up during the war, some of which were at a comparative disadvantage with the resumption of normal foreign trading relations.\n\nAnother factor which made the situation even more distressing was the British Navigation Acts. The only clause in the treaty of peace (1783) concerning commerce was a stipulation guaranteeing that the navigation of the Mississippi would be forever free to the United States. John Jay had tried to secure some reciprocal trade provisions with Great Britain but without result. Pitt, in 1783, introduced a bill into the British Parliament providing for free trade between the United States and the British colonies, but instead of passing the bill, Parliament enacted the British Navigation Act 1783, which admitted only British built and manned ships to the ports of the West Indies, and imposed heavy tonnage dues upon American ships in other British ports. It was amplified in 1786 by another act designed to prevent the fraudulent registration of American vessels and by still another in 1787, which prohibited the importation of American goods by way of foreign islands. The favorable features of the old Navigation Acts that had granted bounties and reserved the English markets in certain cases to colonial products were gone; the unfavorable ones were left. The British market was further curtailed by the depression there after 1783. Although the French treaty of 1778 had promised \"perfect equality and reciprocity\" in commercial relations, it was found impossible to make a commercial treaty on that basis. Spain demanded, as the price for reciprocal trading relations, a surrender by the United States for 25 years the right of navigating the Mississippi, a price that the New England merchants would have been glad to pay.\n\nFrance (1778) and the Netherlands (1782) made treaties but not on even terms; Portugal refused all advances. Only Sweden (1783) and Prussia (1785) made treaties guaranteeing reciprocal commercial privileges.\n\nThe weakness of Congress under the Articles of Confederation prevented retaliation by the central government. Congress repeatedly asked for power to regulate commerce.but was refused by the states upon which rested the execution of such commercial treaties as Congress might negotiate. Eventually, the states themselves attempted retaliatory measures, and from 1783 to 1788, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia levied tonnage dues upon British vessels or discriminating tariffs upon British goods. Whatever effect these efforts might have had were neutralized by the fact that the duties varied 0% to 100%, which simply drove British ships to the free or cheapest ports to flood the market with their goods. Commercial war between the states followed and turned futility into chaos.\n\nAdoption of the Constitution meant the elimination of many of the economic ills under which industry and commerce had struggled since the war. A reorganization was essential and the immediate economic results were salutary. Its most important additions to the power of Congress were those relating to finance and commerce: it enabled the federal government to levy taxes, regulate trade, coin money, protect industry, and direct the settlement of the West, and, as later events proved, to establish credit and redeem its securities. Under it, freedom of trade was insured throughout the young republic.\n\nIn the months leading up to the passage of the Tariff Act, Congress received several petitions from different cities representing manufacturing groups asking for relief from the flood of European imported goods.\n\nThe United States Congress answered the petitions of these groups for urgent attention, by making the Tariff of 1789 the first major bill to be considered in its first session and passed.\n\nThe import fees \"represented a compromise between the advocates of a high protective tariff and those who favored a tariff for revenue only [to maintain the central government].\" Charges up to fifty percent were imposed on selected manufactured and agricultural goods, including \"steel, ships, cordage, tobacco, salt, indigo [and] cloth.\" On the majority of items subject to duty, a five percent fee was levied, \"ad valorem\". Molasses, an indispensable ingredient for Northeastern rum producers, was lowered from 6¢ per gallon to 2.5¢. \nMadison modified the terms of the tariff to balance sectional conflicts but conceded that articles subject to high duties \"were pretty generally taxed for the benefit of the manufacturing part of the northern community.\" He acknowledged the South, the main wealth-producing part of the nation, would inevitably \"shoulder a disproportionate share of the financial burden involved in the transforming the United States into a commercial, manufacturing, and maritime power.\"\n\nIn its final form, the tariff erected \"an American navigation system,\" superseding the individual state sanctioned fees designed to protect domestic shipping during the Articles of Confederation period from 1781 to 1789.\nThe act established tonnage rates favorable to American carriers by charging them lower cargo fees than those imposed on foreign boats importing similar goods. Coastal trade was reserved exclusively for American flag vessels. These provisions were consistent with mercantilist policies practice by European powers at the time.\nDating from the Treaty of Paris, ending the War for Independence in 1783, Great Britain had declined to seek a commercial treaty with the United States. In addition, provisions of the treaty had gone unfulfilled, including compensation to slaveholders for slaves emancipated by the British Navy during the War and the failure to abandon military posts in the Northwest Territory. Still, Great Britain remained the dominant trading partner for the United States, the countries reverting to an essentially colonial-era trade relationship. \nRepresentative James Madison, presiding over the tariff debates in Congress, attempted to introduce discriminatory provisions into the tonnage legislation that would favor France and its colonial possessions and shift American trade away from Great Britain.\nTo effect this, Madison called for a 60¢ per ton fee upon foreign carriers lacking a commercial agreement with the United States, while France, which possessed a treaty, would be charged tonnage at 30¢. This measure alone \"was equivalent to levying economic war\" upon Great Britain.\nMadison's proposals were intended to unify politically the agricultural and manufacturing interests in support of that commercial realignment at the national level, damaging to Great Britain and beneficial to revolutionary France.\nMany representatives of northern business were wary of abandoning Great Britain as their primary trading partner and merchant marine and questioned whether France could ever act \"as the principle supplier and market for the United States.\" \nThe House of Representatives, nevertheless, initially passed Madison's \"controversial\" legislation, with the discriminatory provision intact. The Senate, however, removed it from the bill and sent it back to the House, where it was passed, without amendment, 31 to 19, on July 4, 1789.\nThe Tariff of 1789 placed France and Great Britain on an equal footing with regard to shipping, manufactures, and raw products delivered to American ports. All foreign-owned or foreign-built ships paid 50¢ per ton duty; American-owned vessels were charged 6¢ per ton.\n\nMadison's attempt to enlist northern merchants and businessmen in supporting an economic contest with Great Britain elicited a cool response. Firstly, British capital and markets contributed to the general prosperity of the North, and secondly, a shift towards France would mean aligning the United States with a revolutionary government that exhibited what Federalist leadership regarded as \"an excess of democracy.\" \nAlexander Hamilton, soon to enter the executive branch as Secretary of the Treasury, declined to support Madison's proposal and warned that economic warfare with Great Britain would drastically reduce the import duty revenue that the tariff legislation called for, placing at risk the funds anticipated to run the new federal government and finance the national debt.\n\nThis dispute between Madison and Hamilton marked \"the first important breach\" between these two Federalist leaders, which would deepen when Hamilton, as Treasury Secretary, launched his fiscal and economic programs, ending their long collaboration. The legislation produced the first sectional strains within \"the Federalist coalition of northern businessmen and southern planters.\" In the South, \"agricultural interests\" viewed the high tariff and tonnage rates as a triumph for northern merchants and manufacturers, the burden of which fell on southern staple crop exporters.\n\nThis early application of constitutional authority highlighted north-south social and economic differences and presaged the dissolution of the Federalist coalition, the formation of an agrarian alliance, and the rise of the First Party System.\n\n"}
{"id": "191871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191871", "title": "The Emperor's New Clothes", "text": "The Emperor's New Clothes\n\n\"The Emperor's New Clothes\" () is a short tale written by Danish author Hans Christian Andersen, about two weavers who promise an emperor a new suit of clothes that they say is invisible to those who are unfit for their positions, stupid, or incompetent – while in reality, they make no clothes at all, making \"everyone\" believe the clothes are invisible to them. When the emperor parades before his subjects in his new \"clothes\", no one dares to say that they do not see any suit of clothes on him for fear that they will be seen as stupid. Finally, a child cries out, \"But he isn't wearing anything at all!\" The tale has been translated into over 100 languages.\n\n\"The Emperor’s New Clothes\" was first published with \"The Little Mermaid\" in Copenhagen, by C. A. Reitzel, on 7 April 1837, as the third and final installment of Andersen's \"Fairy Tales Told for Children\". The tale has been adapted to various media, and the story's title, the phrase \"The Emperor has no clothes\", and variations thereof have been adopted for use in numerous other works and as an idiom.\n\nA vain emperor who cares about nothing except wearing and displaying clothes hires weavers who promise him they will make him the best suit of clothes. The weavers are con-men who convince the emperor they are using a fine fabric invisible to anyone who is either unfit for his position or \"hopelessly stupid\". The con lies in that the weavers are actually only pretending to manufacture the clothes. Thus, no one, not even the emperor nor his ministers can see the alleged \"clothes\", but they all pretend that they can for fear of appearing unfit for their positions. Finally, the weavers report that the suit is finished and they mime dressing the emperor who then marches in procession before his subjects. The townsfolk uncomfortably go along with the pretense, not wanting to appear unfit for their positions or stupid. Finally, a child in the crowd blurts out that the emperor is wearing nothing at all and the cry is then taken up by others. The emperor realizes the assertion is true but continues the procession.\n\nAndersen's tale is based on a 1335 story from the (or ), a medieval Spanish collection of fifty-one cautionary tales with various sources such as Aesop and other classical writers and Persian folktales, by Juan Manuel, Prince of Villena (1282–1348). Andersen did not know the Spanish original but read the tale in a German translation, titled . In the source tale, a king is hoodwinked by weavers who claim to make a suit of clothes invisible to any man not the son of his presumed father; whereas Andersen altered the source tale to direct the focus on courtly pride and intellectual vanity rather than adulterous paternity.\n\nThere is also an Indian version of the story, which appears in the \"Līlāvatīsāra\" by Jinaratna (1283), a summary of a now-lost anthology of fables, the \"Nirvāṇalīlāvatī\" by Jineśvara (1052). The dishonest merchant Dhana from Hastināpura swindles the King of Śrāvastī by offering to weave a supernatural garment that cannot be seen or touched by any person of illegitimate birth. When the king is supposedly wearing the garment, his whole court pretends to admire it. The king is then paraded about his city to show off the garment; when the common folk ask him if he has become a naked ascetic, he realizes the deception, but the swindler has already fled.\n\nAndersen's manuscript was at the printer's when he was suddenly inspired to change the original climax of the tale from the emperor's subjects admiring his invisible clothes to that of the child's cry. There are many unconfirmed theories about why he made this change. Most scholars agree that from his earliest years in Copenhagen, Andersen presented himself to the Danish bourgeoisie as the naïvely precocious child not usually admitted to the adult salon. \"The Emperor's New Clothes\" became his exposé of the hypocrisy and snobbery he found there when he finally gained admission.\n\nAndersen's decision to change the ending may have occurred after he read the manuscript tale to a child, or its inspiration may have been one of Anderson's own childhood incidents which was similar to that in the tale: he once recalled standing in a crowd with his mother, waiting to see King Frederick VI, and when the king made his appearance, Andersen cried out, \"Oh, he's nothing more than a human being!\" His mother then tried to silence him saying, \"Have you gone mad, child?\" Whatever the reason, Andersen thought the change would prove more satirical.\n\n\"The Emperor's New Clothes\" was first published with \"The Little Mermaid\" on 7 April 1837, by C.A. Reitzel in Copenhagen, as the third and final installment of the first collection of Andersen's \"Fairy Tales Told for Children\". The first two booklets of the collection were published in May and December 1835, and met with little critical enthusiasm. Andersen waited a year before publishing the third installment of the collection.\n\nTraditional Danish tales, as well as German and French folktales, were regarded as a form of exotica in nineteenth century Denmark and were read aloud to select gatherings by celebrated actors of the day. Andersen's tales eventually became a part of the repertoire, and readings of \"The Emperor's New Clothes\" became a specialty of and a big hit for the popular Danish actor Ludvig Phister.\n\nOn 1 July 1844, the Hereditary Grand Duke Carl Alexander held a literary soiree at Ettersburg in honor of Andersen. Tired by speaking various foreign languages and on the verge of vomiting after days of feasting, the author managed to control his body and read aloud \"The Princess and the Pea\", \"Little Ida's Flowers\", and \"The Emperor's New Clothes\".\n\nJack Zipes, in \"Hans Christian Andersen: The Misunderstood Storyteller\", suggests that seeing is presented in the tale as the courage of one's convictions; Zipes believe this is the reason the story is popular with children. Sight becomes insight, which, in turn, prompts action.\n\nAlison Prince, author of \"Hans Christian Andersen: The Fan Dancer\", claims that Andersen received a gift of a ruby and diamond ring from the king after publications of \"The Emperor's New Clothes\" and \"The Swineherd\"—tales in which Andersen voices a satirical disrespect for the court. Prince suggests the ring was an attempt to curb Andersen's sudden bent for political satire by bringing him into the royal fold. She points out that after \"The Swineherd\", he never again wrote a tale colored with political satire, but, within months of the gift, began composing \"The Ugly Duckling\", a tale about a bird born in a henyard who, after a lifetime of misery, matures into a swan, \"one of those royal birds\". In \"Hans Christian Andersen: The Life of a Storyteller\", biographer Jackie Wullschlager points out that Andersen was not only a successful adapter of existing lore and literary material, such as the Spanish source tale for \"The Emperor's New Clothes\", but was equally competent at creating new material that entered the human collective consciousness with the same mythic power as ancient, anonymous lore.\n\nHollis Robbins, in \"The Emperor's New Critique\" (2003), argues that the tale is itself so transparent \"that there has been little need for critical scrutiny. Robbins argues that Andersen's tale \"quite clearly rehearses four contemporary controversies: the institution of a meritocratic civil service, the valuation of labor, the expansion of democratic power, and the appraisal of art\". Robbins concludes that the story's appeal lies in its \"seductive resolution\" of the conflict by the truth-telling boy.\n\nIn \"The Annotated Hans Christian Andersen\" (2008), folk and fairy tale researcher Maria Tatar offers a scholarly investigation and analysis of the story, drawing on Robbins' political and sociological analysis of the tale. Tatar points out that Robbins indicates the swindling weavers are simply insisting that \"the value of their labor be recognized apart from its material embodiment\" and notes that Robbins considers the ability of some in the tale to see the invisible cloth as \"a successful enchantment\".\n\nTatar observes that \"The Emperor's New Clothes\" is one of Andersen's best-known tales and one that has acquired an iconic status globally as it migrates across various cultures reshaping itself with each retelling in the manner of oral folktales. Scholars have noted that the phrase, \"Emperor's new clothes\", has become a standard metaphor for anything that smacks of pretentiousness, pomposity, social hypocrisy, collective denial, or hollow ostentatiousness. Historically, the tale established Andersen's reputation as a children's author whose stories actually imparted lessons of value for his juvenile audience, and \"romanticized\" children by \"investing them with the courage to challenge authority and to speak truth to power.\" With each successive description of the swindlers' wonderful cloth, it becomes more substantial, more palpable, and a thing of imaginative beauty for the reader even though it has no material existence. Its beauty, however, is obscured at the end of the tale with the obligatory moral message for children. Tatar is left wondering if the real value of the tale is the creation of the wonderful fabric in the reader's imagination or the tale's closing message of speaking truth no matter how humiliating to the recipient.\n\nNaomi Wood of Kansas State University challenges Robbins' reading, arguing that before the World Trade Center attacks of 2001, \"Robbins's argument might seem merely playful, anti-intuitive, and provocative.\" Wood concludes: \"Perhaps the truth of 'The Emperor's New Clothes' is not that the child's truth is mercifully free of adult corruption, but that it recognizes the terrifying possibility that whatever words we may use to clothe our fears, the fabric cannot protect us from them.\"\n\nVarious adaptations of the tale have appeared since its first publication.\n\n1919 Russian film directed by Yuri Zhelyabuzhsky, a 1987 musical starring Sid Caesar, and numerous short stories, plays, spoofs, and animated films.\n\nIn 1953, theatrical short titled The Emperor's New Clothe, Produced by UPA\n\nIn 1961, Croatian film (80') directed by Ante Babaja, writer Božidar Violić (see IMDB).\n\nIn 1972, Rankin/Bass Productions adapted the tale as the first and only musical episode of ABC series \"The Enchanted World of Danny Kaye\" series, featuring Danny Kaye, Cyril Ritchard, Imogene Coca, Allen Swift, and Bob McFadden. The television special features eight songs with music by Maury Laws and lyrics by Jules Bass, and combines live action filmed in Aarhus, Denmark, animation, special effects, and the stop motion animation process \"Animagic\" made in Japan.\n\nThe 1987 Japanese war documentary film, \"The Emperor's Naked Army Marches On\", by director Kazuo Hara, centers on 62-year-old Kenzo Okuzaki, veteran of Japan's Second World War campaign in New Guinea, and follows him around as he searches out those responsible for the unexplained deaths of two soldiers in his old unit.\n\nThe Emperor's New Clothes, a 1987 musical comedy adaptation of the fairy tale starring Sid Caesar, part of the Cannon Movie Tales series\n\nThe Emperor's New Clothes (1991) animated film. By Burbank Animation Studios\n\nIn the 1997 television drama, \"...First Do No Harm\", Lori (played by Meryl Streep) is shown reading this story to her young son, Robbie (played by Seth Adkins).\n\nAn OVA episode of the anime franchise \"Bikini Warriors\" humorously adapts the tale, wherein the main characters are stripped nude by an unseen deity under the pretense that it has actually gifted them with a new, legendary bikini armor which only \"idiots\" are unable to see.\n\nOn March 1, 1957, Bing Crosby recorded a musical adaptation of the story for children which was issued as an album \"Never Be Afraid by Golden Records in 1957.\nIn 1980, computer scientist C.A.R. Hoare used a parody tale, \"The Emperor's Old Clothes\", to advocate simplification over embellishment, for clothing or computer programming languages.\n\nIn 1985, Jack Herer published the first edition of \"The Emperor Wears No Clothes\", which uncovers the history of industrial hemp through civilization, culminating in a propaganda campaign in the U.S. in the early 20th century. The book is now in its 11th edition.\n\nIn 1989, Roger Penrose parodied artificial intelligence as having no substance in his book \"The Emperor's New Mind\".\n\nIn 2011, Tony Namate, an award-winning Zimbabwean cartoonist, published a collection of political cartoons entitled \"The Emperor's New Clods\". This collection features cartoons published in Zimbabwean newspapers between 1998 and 2005, highlighting some landmark moments in a troubled period of the country's history.\n\nIn 2014, the online game \"Final Fantasy XIV\" introduced a gear set prefixed \"The Emperor's New\", which is composed of gear pieces (\"e.g. The Emperor's New Gloves\") that do not have an in-game model, effectively displaying a character in underwear when the whole set is equipped. This followed requests from the player base to be able to hide a piece of equipment they do not want displayed, using the in-game glamour system that allows gear appearance alteration. The flavour text of the gear pieces is a tongue-in-cheek reference to the tale: \"\"The most beautiful handwear you never have seen\".\"\n\nAs an idiom, use of the story's title refers to something widely accepted as true or professed as being praiseworthy, due to an unwillingness of the general population to criticize it or be seen as going against popular opinion. The phrase \"emperor's new clothes\" has become an idiom about logical fallacies. The story may be explained by pluralistic ignorance. \nThe story is about a situation where \"no one believes, but everyone believes that everyone else believes. Or alternatively, everyone is ignorant to whether the emperor has clothes on or not, but believes that everyone else is not ignorant.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40709208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40709208", "title": "The Haitian National Truth and Justice Commission", "text": "The Haitian National Truth and Justice Commission\n\nThe Haitian National Truth and Justice Commission began its operations in April 1995 and ended in February 1996. Haiti's once diverse and lively civil society had been tarnished greatly as a result of the ousting of its first democratically elected President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, by its military forces. This deposing of President Aristide is widely known as a coup d'état, and from 1991 to 1994, the country became known for its weak civilian government. The army was determined to return Haiti to the intimidated society existing during the Duvalier dictatorship seven years prior.\n\nThe Duvalier regime of the late 1960s and the early 1970s is partly to blame for the coup d'état that occurred resulting in Aristide's removal from power the first time. Duvalier was elected president with the help of the United States and a Haitian populace that was enduring a previous coup d'état that occurred in 1950. Once in office, the Haitian President, François \"Papa Doc\" Duvalier, had the Haitian constitution rewritten so that no other President could succeed him, despite his term legally ending on May 15, 1963. Duvalier remained Haiti's President until his death on April 21, 1971, ending the reign of the most corrupt President in Haiti's history. Most of Haiti's governments have been corrupt, essentially making him the most prestigious in this field so far.\n\nThe oppression in Haiti resulting from Duvalier's regime was evident. With much aid from the United States throughout this period, Haiti provided him with five palaces, the Tonton Macoute, (which was his own private police force), and many sources of income. At the time, Haiti's literacy rate was ten percent, fifty percent infant mortality rate, fifteen percent of budget went in operations, while 85 percent went to the staff and associates of Duvalier.\n\nLittle of Papa Doc's mandate favored Haitian citizens and their human rights. With the Tonton Macoute intimidating all threatening oppositions by forcing activists to leave the country or by ascertaining liberties or apportioning assets. Many executions were disguised, as exiles and sources state that as many as 2000 people could be executed in the span of one month during this dictatorship.\n\nBeing Haiti's first democratically elected president, coming out of a very harsh dictatorship, the Haitian populace welcomed Aristide with open arms. He symbolized change in a time that previously lacked hope in Haiti. Despite the people voting Aristide into office, he still had much of the Duvalier military to worry about and they had a very different opinion of the changes that were occurring in 1990. They became hostile towards the newly elected President and were able to assert their dominance of the island quickly as a result of their military weapons and training. Only a year into Aristide's presidency, he found himself removed from power by an army led by commander-in-chief, Raoul Cédras, who had overseen many accounts of human rights violations without holding any of his section chiefs responsible.\n\nThe three year \"coup d'état\" brought systematic oppression for the citizens of Haiti, which was maintained through intimidation from a violent military who were said to be responsible for numerous beatings, killings and disappearances which led to the destruction of civil society in the country.\n\nAs a result of the worsening conditions in Haiti, the United Nations and the Organization of America States imposed international sanctions against Haiti because of the corrupt powers terrorizing and controlling the island. It was expected that Aristide would return as president of Haiti October 1993, but military deterrence pushed his return to power back as far as July of the next year. The deciding factor allowing Aristide to return to office was the 20,000 United States troops and the United Nations persuading support.\n\nThe CNVJ was appointed by presidential Decree, six months after Aristide returned to office in Haiti. This Commission was established to seek and identify the instigators, perpetrators, and accessories to the many human rights violations and crimes against humanity following the military control of government from September 1991 to October 1994, both inside and outside the country. The Commission was implemented in order to aid the country in reconciliation and to recover the truth about the human rights violations in the given time period. The hope of the commissioners was to provide a guideline for legal recourse and a way of helping the country move forward.\n\nThe Commission was required to submit a report that many felt was unfinished to an extent, mainly because Aristide was being pressured to hand the presidency over to his elected successor, and the mandate specifically expressed that the report had to be handed directly to Aristide. In the end the mandate was intended for everybody to access. Even though the report included the testimonies of the public, time and financial constraints that made it difficult for the report to provide details of what was discovered. A bright spot in the report was that it revealed names of almost 9,000 victims from the period along with the particular abuse that was inflicted upon them.\n\nThe initiative is largely credited to the Haitian diaspora as the impetus toward establishing a truth and justice commission initially came from Haitians abroad.\n\nThe mandate of the CNVJ was to begin an investigation regarding human rights violations that occurred during the three year coup d'état that begun September 30, 1991 until Aristide's return to power in October 1994.\n\n\"to globally establish the truth concerning the most serious Human Rights violations perpetrated between September 29, 1991 and October 15, 1994, inside and outside the country and help to the reconciliation of all Haitians without any prejudice against seeking legal action based on these violations.\"\nThis is a quote from Jean-Bertrand Aristide upon creating the mandate of the CNVJ.\n\nThe commission consisted of seven commissioners, including two women and five men. It was supported by the Organization of American States (OAS) and the United Nations Permanent Mission to Haiti (\"International Civilian Mission in Haiti\" or MICIVIH). Including the chair of the commission, four of the commissioners were Haitian nationals, a number of which had been living in exile (commission chair Francoise Boucard, Ertha Elysee, and ), and the final three were representatives of the international community (Patrick Robinson, Oliver Jackman, and Bacre Waly Ndiaye). Throughout the tenure of the commission, the CNVJ did 8,650 interviews with people uncovering 19,308 violations.\n\nThe final report of the CNVJ was submitted to Aristide on February 5, 1996. The commission had centered its findings on the testimonies gathered by forty Haitians and foreign rights investigators throughout the country in the summer of 1995.\" During the commission's investigation, they quickly discovered that they had to stress the safety of victims coming to testify because many of them feared retaliation as a result of their testimony. This caused the commission to take the path of discretion during their investigation to put victims at ease once they made the decision to speak out.\" Information soon got out to many popular organizations in Haiti, which allowed most of the population to obtain knowledge of the commission's ongoing investigation. Despite of the commission's activity in the country being common knowledge to the important organizations, they actually added to the efficiency of the investigation by notifying even more citizens.\" With these institutions influence, the inclination of the Haitian populace to testify increased, even though many were still threatened by the presence of known human rights violators walking around in immediate areas. In almost three months the CNVJ received more than seven thousand complaints from Haitian citizens.\" The human rights violations expressed in these complaints were documented thoroughly with questions created by the commission. In addition to the complaints the commission received, they used secondary information from local and international organizations (this included the United Nations and the Organization of American States Civil Mission in Haiti).\" These secondary sources were essential to help validate the information given in the numerous complaints submitted.\n\nThe commission had to distinguish what classified as outstanding evidence against the perpetrators of human rights violations. They established three types of supporting evidence for different types of violations. They accepted testimonies that were backed by \"sufficient evidence\" which means that there was more proven facts supporting the testimony than opposing it.\" If the information gathered could not be contradicted by any other information then it was deemed to be \"overwhelming evidence\".\" The third distinction was if the evidence was extremely supportive to a finding of the commission, it was deemed to be \"substantial evidence\".\" These distinctions were used when testimonies revealed a violators name, which proved to be important because this was the goal of the mandate. The information given to the commission by thousands of victims, which revealed many perpetrators by name, was undermined by time constraints restricting the commission to perform thorough investigations of the accused. Some violators had numerous complaints towards them because they exercised most of their human rights violations in the same area, being observed by most community members.\"\n\nOnce the victim testimonies were collected, they had to be carefully analyzed regionally, pertaining to the targets, planners and displays of repression cruelty.\" The commission opened special investigations pertaining to certain types of cruelty, such as sexual abuse and subjugation of the press.\n\nThe CNVJ prioritized investigations that pointed to the repression of government in a large scale, more than anything else. Truth commissions in the past, such as the UN Commission of El Salvador, prioritized a smaller number of cases that impacted the country's society overall. It was the CNVJ's desire to essentially develop a summary of the repression. To contrast the UN Commission of El Salvador with the CNVJ, the commission in El Salvador did fewer but more detailed investigations which provided for more quality cases against named perpetrators to be done. The UN Commission of El Salvador had to do this because they had to worry about a twelve-year period of human rights violations as opposed to the Haitian mandate only having to worry about a three-year period of repression. As a result, the CNVJ's investigation had to be more widespread than the UN Commission of El Salvador.\n\nReconciliation is also stressed in the mandate of the CNVJ. The commission was not meant to be the reason for national reconciliation but to aid it, by revealing the truth regarding the past human rights violations that occurred in Haiti.\" The commission was implemented by executive order to provide guidance and influence rooted from the recommendations made to the Haitian government so the nation can move forward.\n\nMany of the victims are still waiting for justice for the terrors they endured during the coup etat of 1991-1994, but a few important trials were held, specifically ones involving the Raboteau and the Carrefour-Feuillles killings. The case regarding the Raboteau, ended in November 2000 and as many as fifty accused perpetrators were convicted. This included everybody in the military high command and the leaders of the paramilitary FRAPH (Front Revolutionaire pour l'Avancement et le Progres Haitiens) On May 3, 2005, the Supreme Court of Haiti opposed the verdicts given to fifteen of the former members of the FRAPH. none of whom were imprisoned at the time.\n\nThe testimonies the commission based its findings on would have been more structured if the commission was able to gain access to the U.S government information regarding the FRAPH. Without this information from the United States, the testimonies lacked the quality needed for them to hold their ground. The United States documents concerning the FRAPH were finally returned to Haiti in early 2000, which was one of the final priorities of the Clinton Administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "1161827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1161827", "title": "Ultra vires", "text": "Ultra vires\n\nUltra vires is a Latin phrase meaning \"beyond the powers\". If an act requires legal authority and it is done with such authority, it is characterised in law as intra vires (\"within the powers\"). If it is done without such authority, it is \"ultra vires\". Acts that are \"intra vires\" may equivalently be termed \"valid\" and those that are \"ultra vires\" \"invalid\".\n\nLegal issues relating to \"ultra vires\" can arise in a variety of contexts:\n\nIn corporate law, \"ultra vires\" describes acts attempted by a corporation that are beyond the scope of powers granted by the corporation's objects clause, articles of incorporation or in a clause in its Bylaws, in the laws authorizing a corporation's formation, or similar founding documents. Acts attempted by a corporation that are beyond the scope of its charter are void or voidable. \n\n\nSeveral modern developments relating to corporate formation have limited the probability that ultra vires acts will occur. Except in the case of non-profit corporations (including municipal corporations), this legal doctrine is obsolescent; within recent years, almost all business corporations are chartered to allow them to transact any lawful business. The Model Business Corporation Act of the United States states that: \"The validity of corporate action may not be challenged on the ground that the corporation lacks or lacked power to act.\" The doctrine still has some life among non-profit corporations or state-created corporate bodies established for a specific public purpose, such as universities or charities.\n\nAccording to American laws, the concept of \"ultra vires\" can still arise in the following kinds of activities in some states:\n\nHistorically all companies in the United Kingdom were subject to the doctrine of \"ultra vires\" and any act which was outside of the objects specified in a company's memorandum of association would be \"ultra vires\" and void. That result was commercially unpalatable, and led to companies being formed with extremely wide and generic objects clauses permitting a company to engage in all manner of commercial activities. \n\nThe position was changed by statute by the Companies Act 1985 which largely abolished the doctrine in relation to commercial companies. The position is now regulated by the Companies Act 2006, sections 31 and 39, which similarly greatly reduces the applicability of \"ultra vires\" in corporate law, although it can still apply in relation to charities and a shareholder may apply for an injunction, in advance only, to prevent an act which is claimed to be \"ultra vires\".\n\nIn many jurisdictions, such as Australia, legislation provides that a corporation has all the powers of a natural person plus others; also, the validity of acts which are made ultra vires is preserved.\n\nUnder constitutional law, particularly in Canada and the United States, constitutions give federal and provincial or state governments various powers. To go outside those powers would be \"ultra vires\"; for example, although the court did not use the term in striking down a federal law in \"United States v. Lopez\" on the grounds that it exceeded the Constitutional authority of Congress, the Supreme Court still declared the law to be \"ultra vires\".\n\nAccording to Article 15.2 of the Irish constitution, the Oireachtas (parliament) is the sole lawmaking body in the Republic of Ireland. In the case of \"CityView Press v AnCo\", however, the Irish Supreme Court held that the Oireachtas may delegate certain powers to subordinate bodies through primary legislation, so long as these delegated powers allow the delegatee only to further the principles and policies laid down by the Oireachtas in primary legislation and not craft new principles or policies themselves. Any piece of primary legislation that grants the power to make public policy to a body other than the Oireachtas is unconstitutional; however, as there is a presumption in Irish constitutional law that the Oireachtas acts within the confines of the Constitution, any legislation passed by the Oireachtas must be interpreted in such a way as to be constitutionally valid where possible.\n\nThus, in a number of cases where bodies other than the Oireachtas were found to have used powers granted to them by primary legislation to make public policy, the impugned primary legislation was read in such a way that it would not have the effect of allowing a subordinate body to make public policy. In these cases, the primary legislation was held to be constitutional, but the subordinate or secondary legislation, which amounted to creation of public policy, was held to be \"ultra vires\" the primary legislation and was struck down.\n\nIn UK constitutional law, \"ultra vires\" describes patents, ordinances and the like enacted under the prerogative powers of the Crown that contradict statutes enacted by the Crown-in-Parliament. Almost unheard of in modern times, \"ultra vires\" acts by the Crown or its servants were previously a major threat to the rule of law.\n\n\"Boddington v British Transport Police\" is an example of an appeal heard by House of Lords that contested that a bylaw was beyond the powers conferred to it under section 67 of the Transport Act 1962.\n\nIn administrative law, an act may be judicially reviewable for \"ultra vires\" in a narrow or broad sense. Narrow ultra vires applies if an administrator did not have the substantive power to make a decision or it was wrought with procedural defects. Broad \"ultra vires\" applies if there is an abuse of power (e.g., Wednesbury unreasonableness or bad faith) or a failure to exercise an administrative discretion (e.g., acting at the behest of another or unlawfully applying a government policy) or application of discretionary powers in irrational and wrong way. Either doctrine may entitle a claimant to various prerogative writs, equitable remedies or statutory orders if they are satisfied.\n\nIn the seminal case of \"Anisminic v Foreign Compensation Commission\", Lord Reid is accredited with formulating the doctrine of ultra vires. However, ultra vires, together with unreasonableness, was mentioned much earlier by Lord Russell in the well known case, \"Kruse v Johnson\", regarding challenging by-laws and other rules. Anisminic is better known for not depriving courts of their jurisdiction to declare a decision a nullity, even if a statute expressly prevents the decision being subject to judicial review. Further cases such as \"Bromley LBC v Greater London Council\" and \"Council of Civil Service Unions v Minister for the Civil Service\" have sought to refine the doctrine.\n\nIn \"Hammersmith and Fulham London Borough Council v Hazell\" the House of Lords held that interest rate swaps entered into by local authorities (a popular method of circumventing statutory restrictions on local authorities borrowing money at that time) were all \"ultra vires\" and void, sparking a raft of satellite litigation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37339203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37339203", "title": "World Pensions &amp; Investments Forum", "text": "World Pensions &amp; Investments Forum\n\nThe World Pensions & Investments Forum is a research and policy-oriented conference organised by the World Pensions Council (WPC), also known as the International Association of Pension Funds (IAPF), in partnership with regional and supranational organisations, large public and private institutional investors from G10 countries, the emerging nations of Eastern Europe, Latin America, Asia and the MENA area.\n\nThe \"first edition\" of the forum was held in Paris at the OECD: on that occasion, leading experts from the OECD, the University of Cambridge, the IMF, the World Bank and various US, UK and Mainland European institutions presented the latest advances in the fields quantitative asset allocation, financial risk management, socially responsible investing and corporate governance.\n\nThe \"second edition\" was held in Paris at the headquarters of the : discussions focused on long term investments, infrastructure assets, in the European Union and key emerging markets notably Russia, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and China and the rise of private equity and \"real assets\".\n\nThe \"third edition\" was held in Hong Kong with the support of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China: the main plenary presentations and roundtables focused on pension governance, the role of trustees- notably in the Australian, Asian and UK contexts, stochastic investment models, different approaches to life expectancy assumptions, the growing role of private equity and infrastructure assets for both pension funds and sovereign wealth funds notably in relation to Infrastructure-based development and, more generally, the analysis of concrete policy measures and regional and local best practices that could contribute to “solving the pensions crisis across the globe” \n\nThe \"4th edition\" (October 2014) and the \"5th Annual World Pensions Forum\" (December 2015) were both held in Saint-Germain-des-Prés (Paris) – the latter in association with the United Nations COP21 Summit: plenary speeches and roundtables focused on ESG and Responsible Investment, modern indexing and factor-based strategies, pension fund and SWF co-investment, Blended Finance and securities lending. \n"}
{"id": "894035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=894035", "title": "Wrongful dismissal in the United Kingdom", "text": "Wrongful dismissal in the United Kingdom\n\nIn United Kingdom law, the concept of wrongful dismissal refers exclusively to dismissal contrary to the contract of employment, which effectively means premature termination, either due to insufficient notice or lack of grounds. Although wrongful dismissal is usually associated with lack of notice sometimes it can also be caused by arbitrary dismissal where no notice was required but certain grounds were specified in the contract as being the only ones available but none existed.\n\nWrongful dismissal does not terminate the contract - it is a repudiatory breach, i.e. one entitling the employee to consider himself no longer bound on the basis of the employer no longer considering itself bound. The employer's repudiatory breach (wrongful dismissal) forces the employee to accept it as he is prevented from earning from the employer and required to mitigate by working for someone else, thus terminating the contract. This does not follow contract law and is an invention by judges, disliked by others, designed to reflect the reality of employment, using the dual fictions that because the right to wages depends on the obligation to work, there is no right to wages if the employer tells the employee not to work (forgetting that the employer is not able to terminate the obligation to work other than in accordance with the contract) and that the employee has accepted the repudiation by not working for the employer even though he is willing and able. Otherwise the employee would be entitled to stay at home at the employer's request yet sue for unpaid wages as a debt.\n\nAn employer is only entitled to dismiss an employee without notice:\n\nThe last example, trust and confidence, is commonly known as \"gross misconduct\", but employment law only distinguishes between misconduct that justifies dismissal and misconduct that does not. Conduct entitling the employer to terminate the contract is conduct indicating the employee no longer considers himself bound by it and so is technically accepting the termination caused by the employee. Gross misconduct is really just a vague list of offences that could most easily justify summary dismissal for a first offence.\n\nDismissal for a reason contrary to statute or contrary to a statutory procedure is described as \"unfair dismissal\" but not all wrongful dismissals are unfair dismissals, and dismissal by forcing somebody to resign through serious breach of contract is known as constructive dismissal and constructive dismissal is usually a wrongful dismissal due to lack of notice.\n\nIf an employer dismisses an employee without legally required notice then the employee is usually not bound by restrictive covenants (increasingly though courts treat pay in lieu of notice as curing lack of notice). This means the employer of a senior employee privy to company secrets should be careful not to unjustifiably summarily dismiss him, or put him on garden leave or pay him in lieu of notice without a contractual provision allowing it, or even miscalculate his notice period making it a day short.\n\nSometimes an employer can restore such covenants in a compromise agreement by paying a nominal sum of, say, £500 for them. The employer cannot circumvent the risk of a summary dismissal turning out to have been unlawful by giving notice, as that would imply the employee's breach of contract was insufficient to justify summary dismissal.\n\nThe notice period will usually be in the written agreement, otherwise there are statutory minimums but a court can imply a reasonable period and often will if it thinks the employee has been treated shabbily - for example, one week can turn into a month, and one month can turn into three months. The statutory minima are one week for one month to two years' service then one extra week per year of service from two to twelve years up to a maximum of 12 weeks. The minima will also override contractual provisions if insufficient. Common law notice, used by courts where the contract is silent, depends on the work, seniority, length of service and payment intervals, but not on what the employer can afford; senior specialists can be given six or even up to twelve months.\n\nThe employee is always entitled to be paid during his employment and the required notice period; they are often also entitled to work. Requiring the employee to spend the time in leisure (IE at home, on vacation, etc.) in order to \"get them out of the way\" can be considered illegal, even though it may be usually considered a benefit to the employee.\n\nIf an employer wants an exiting employee out of the way and does not have the contractual right to put him on garden leave, or pay him in lieu of notice, then the only options are to encourage the use of holiday and offer a compromise agreement to waive his right to sue, in return for the intentional breach of contract. Sometimes the breach turns the termination payment into compensation rather than wages, making it tax-free, so the employee may be only too happy to go along with the ruse.\n\nIn a tribunal the remedy would be compensation; in court the remedy would be damages but rarely an injunction. An injunction could be awarded to enforce a contractual disciplinary procedure, but because compensation is usually an adequate remedy for premature termination, an injunction is generally not available to keep a job going, even in a redundancy situation where the selection process has been circumvented.\nAction for wrongful dismissal can be brought within 6 years following the breach of an employment contract.\n\nFor the notice period the employer must pay wages (including any anticipated pay rise) and benefits except holiday;\nfor wrongful dismissal, it is only possible to claim for lost earnings and damage to reputation, not for the manner of dismissal.\n\nBenefits include:\n\nShare options will often be excluded by small print.\n\nTo avoid arguments about whether these would have been earned, it may make sense to compromise by paying the usual sort of overtime or bonus the employee would have gotten if working. Courts are astute to employers trying to wriggle out of paying commission with arguments like \"it was not triggered because we dismissed him before pay day\". The employer is under a duty to act in good faith, not to exercise discretion spitefully or in bad faith and not to act perversely, irrationally or capriciously.\n\nThe deductions that can be made from compensation are:\n\nBecause it is a contract claim, the employee has a duty to mitigate his loss by seeking employment, as soon as possible, for as high a wage as possible;so the tribunal or court would deduct earnings from a new job, during the correct notice period from compensation due, but if the employer attempts to do this unilaterally, it may simply trigger a claim that would not otherwise have happened, had it turned a blind eye to the employee making a couple of weeks' wages out of the situation. Due to the disproportionate cost of employment litigations, it is usually sensible for an employer to err on the side of generosity, trying to ensure the parting of ways is amicable rather than showing off how many loopholes can be found.\nPensions cannot be deducted.\nIt is possible for a contract to be worded so as to make the pay in lieu of notice a debt, to which the employee is entitled even if he gets a new job the next day.\n\nWrongful dismissal is the lesser type of unlawful dismissal, costing only what it would have done to keep the employee during the notice period, but it can be slightly dangerous for the employer, due to the potential loss of restrictive covenants and due to the employee being able to start alleging all sorts of breaches of contract, to try to use up the £25,000 breach of contract allowance in a tribunal, and if he takes the employer to court instead there is no limit and it could end with significantly high costs.\n\nBreaches of contract by the employer serious enough to create a wrongful dismissal are also a constructive dismissal; wrongful dismissals not caused by insufficient notice would have been caused by another breach, such as of the duty not to destroy the mutual bond of trust, and have included failure to inform of pension rights.\nThe employer has no duty to act what would normally be called in good faith, but must not act in bad faith or insufficiently in good faith such that it breaks the mutual bond of trust. The obligation is usually not to do anything bad as opposed to doing something good.\n\nThe employee could allege extra breaches of contract and losses including:\n\n\nSuccessful defences have been:\n\nA wrongful dismissal can be a fair or unfair dismissal, just as an unfair dismissal may or may not be a wrongful dismissal in terms of whether the correct notice was given.\n\nIf the employee had two year's service he could claim unfair dismissal if there was something wrong with the decision to dismiss as opposed to the length of notice. If the wrongfulness was the lack of grounds then is it pretty certain to also be an unfair dismissal.\n\nThe unfair dismissal claim would, if he is well advised, be in respect of the post-termination period and sue in court for wrongful dismissal in respect of the notice period, thus stretching out the statutory limits by making the unfair dismissal limit only start running from a later date to allow perhaps more loss of earnings and ignoring the breach of contract limit by using the court instead of tribunal to deal with wrongful dismissal. The burden of proving double recovery is on the employer and tribunal awards for unfair dismissal can be vague as to what and when they are for.\n\nA wrongful dismissal can be actual or constructive, but a constructive dismissal is almost certain to be a wrongful one, since the correct notice will not have been given if the dismissal was caused by a resignation, itself caused by the employer's serious breach of contract. An employee who was constructively dismissed, as well as possibly having a claim for breach of the duty not to destroy the bond of mutual trust, will usually have a claim for wrongful dismissal. As only economic loss can be claimed for breach of contract, the main loss will be earnings due to the lost notice period, as opposed to any disgruntlement about the manner or reason for dismissal, so the constructive nature of the dismissal tends to disappear into the claim for lost notice period.\n\n"}
{"id": "15059893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15059893", "title": "Youth justice in England and Wales", "text": "Youth justice in England and Wales\n\nYouth justice system in England and Wales comprises the organs and processes that are used to prosecute, convict and punish persons under 18 years of age who commit criminal offences. The principal aim of the youth justice system is to prevent offending by children and young persons.\n\nKids is irrefutably presumed to be incapable of committing an offence. Prior to 1998, a child aged between 10 and 13 was presumed under doli incapax to be incapable of committing an offence unless the prosecution were able to prove that the child knew the difference between right and wrong, although a range of mitigating factors particular to childhood are normally taken into account in England and Wales Now, children aged between 10 and 17 are capable of committing offences and it is not possible for a child to avoid liability by showing that they do not know the difference between right and wrong. However, a child should not be found guilty if they are unfit to plead.\n\nIn exceptional circumstances, most notably the case of the murder of James Bulger in Liverpool in 1993, children can be tried as an adult in an adult court.\n\nFrom the age of 18 onwards, individuals are then considered an adult in the eyes of the law. Therefore, all punishment given by the courts or other law enforcement agencies will rest solely upon them.\n\nAfter a person aged ten to 17 has been arrested and taken to a police station, Code C to the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 requires that the custody officer ascertain the identity of a parent, guardian, Local Authority carer or any other person who has assumed responsibility for the juvenile's welfare and must inform them of the arrest. The custody officer should inform the appropriate adult (who may or may not be the same person) of the grounds for the detainee's detention and ask the adult to come to the police station to see the detainee. The juvenile should be told of the duties of the appropriate adult and that the juvenile can consult privately with the appropriate adult at any time, but warned that such conversations are not privileged.\n\nThe juvenile may not ordinarily be interviewed, be asked to provide or sign a written statement under caution, be asked to sign a record of interview without an appropriate adult being present. A superintendent may authorise an interview without an appropriate adult if:\n\nDuring an interview where an appropriate adult is present, an appropriate adult should:\n\nThe Crown Prosecution service has produced detailed guidance on prosecuting juveniles.\n\nA police officer may proceed by way of reprimand or (final) warning, where the following conditions are satisfied:\n\nA police officer can either give the offender a \"reprimand\" or a \"final warning\". A final warning is more serious. Once a person has received one reprimand he cannot receive a second. A person may be given a final warning without a reprimand if the seriousness of the offence warrants this course. A person may exceptionally be given a second (but not a third) final warning if \"the offence was committed more than two years after the date of the previous warning and the constable considers the offence to be not so serious as to require a charge to be brought\".\n\nIn the case of a juvenile under the age of 17, the reprimand or final warning should be given in the presence of an appropriate adult. Where a police officer gives a final warning, he should refer the offender to the local youth offending team who should arrange for him to participate in a rehabilitation programme unless they consider it inappropriate to do so.\n\nThe system of reprimand and final warning was replaced in 2013 by youth cautions and youth conditional cautions by the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012.\n\nHaving been formally accused of committing an offence, a juvenile will make his first appearance in the Youth Court unless:\n\nA juvenile has a general right to bail.\n\nAs for adults, the main reasons for refusing bail are that the defendant is accused of an imprisonable offence and there are substantial grounds for believing that the defendant:\n\nThe court may also refuse bail for the juvenile's own protection or welfare or for a limited number of other reasons.\n\nA juvenile's parent may be asked to act as a surety for up to £50 for the juvenile's attendance at court and compliance with any conditions attached to bail.\n\nWhere a juvenile is refused bail, he is normally remanded in local authority accommodation. He may be remanded in secure accommodation only if:\n\nA juvenile will ordinarily be tried in the Youth Court. A juvenile may be tried in an adult Magistrates' Court only if he is charged alongside an adult.\n\nA juvenile will be tried in the Crown Court where:\n\nA Youth Court is a magistrates' court but the Youth Court has jurisdiction to try juveniles where a Magistrates Court does not have a similar power to try adults. The Magistrates and District Judges who sit in the Youth Court will receive specialist training on dealing with young people. A youth court is presided over by either a district judge or a bench of two or three lay magistrates, which must (unless there are unforeseen circumstances) include both a man and a woman.\n\nA youth court is not open to the public. The victim(s) of the crime, however, has/have the opportunity to attend the hearings of the court if they want to, but they must make a request to the court if they wish to do so. The needs and wishes of victims will always be considered by the court and, through the youth offending team (YOT), they often have the opportunity to have an input into the sentencing process.\nThe only other persons who may be present are:\n\nThe following reporting restrictions apply automatically:\n\nThe restrictions may be lifted by the court:\n\nWhere a child is under 16, the court must (unless it would be unreasonable) require a parent or guardian to attend court and where the child is aged 16 to 18, the court may do so.\n\nGenerally, the same procedures apply in the Crown Court for juveniles as for adults.\n\nThere is no automatic restriction on reporting proceedings, unlike in the Youth Court, but the court may direct that:\n\nWhere a child is under 14, the court must (unless it would be unreasonable) require a parent or guardian to attend court and where the child is aged 14 to 18, the court may do so.\n\nParagraph II.30 of the Consolidated Criminal Practice Direction makes provision for the adapting the procedures in the Crown Court where a juvenile is tried, to assist in their taking part in the trial.\n\nA defendant under the age of 18 may give evidence by live link if:\n\nThe courts have the powers to pass the following sentences:\n\nThe local authority, if notified of proceedings and unless they consider it unnecessary to do so, should make such investigations and should provide the court with information relating to the home surroundings, school, record, health and character of the defendant and any other matters required by the court. The Criminal Procedure Rules state:\n\n\nExcept in homicide cases, the Crown Court shall unless satisfied that it would be undesirable to do so, remit the case to the youth court.\n\nNo custodial sentence may be passed on an offender aged under 21 who is not legally represented at least at some point after he is found guilty and before sentence (unless he was granted a right to representation funded by legal aid but the right was withdrawn because of his conduct; or having been informed of his right to apply for such representation and having had the opportunity to do so, he refused or failed to apply).\n\nOffenders aged under 21 cannot be sentenced to prison for any reason, but may be remanded in custody in prison for trial or sentence.\n\nThe relevant date for determining the court's powers to sentence is the date of the conviction but the court should take as the starting point the sentence that the defendant would have been likely to receive if he had been sentenced at the date of the commission of the offence.\n\nPlease Note That This Section is Obsolete\n\nIf a court considers the offences serious enough to warrant a community sentence, and that a community sentence or combination thereof would be most suitable to the offender and commensurate with the seriousness of the offence, it may pass a community sentence in accordance with the following table:\n\nWhere a court should normally obtain a pre-sentence report, it may dispense with this requirement if it considers it unnecessary to do so. In respect of offenders under 18, it may only dispense with the report if a current offence is triable on indictment or the court has had reference to the most recent previous pre-sentence report for the offender.\n\nUnder certain circumstances, a Youth Court (or other Magistrates Court) must or may make a referral to a local youth offender panel. The panel should seek to agree a \"contract\", a programme of behaviour, with the young offender. If a contract cannot be agreed, the young offender panel refers the offender back to the court. The length of the programme is determined by the court when making the reference and must be between three months and one year. of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 makes the following provision about the contents of the contract:\n\n(2) The terms of the programme may, in particular, include provision for any of the following—\n\n(3) The programme may not, however, provide—\n(a) for the electronic monitoring of the offender's whereabouts; or\n(b) for the offender to have imposed on him any physical restriction on his movements.\nReferral orders will be considered only if:\n\nIf the above conditions are satisfied and the offender has pleaded guilty to all of the offences before the court and one of them is punishable by imprisonment, the court must make a referral order. If otherwise the above conditions are satisfied and the offender has pleaded guilty to at least one offence before the court and not-guilty to another (regardless of whether they are imprisonable), the court may make a referral order.\n\nIf a court has made a referral order, it may not at the same time:\n\nOther than in respect of a conviction for murder, and having received a report indicating the type of work suitable and the attitude of the victim(s), the offender may be ordered by the court to make reparation by making reparation to certain persons or to the community at large, so long as this does not involve more than 24 hours work. A reparation order may not be made where a community sentence or custodial sentence is passed.\n"}
{"id": "24757529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24757529", "title": "Zhou Yongjun incident", "text": "Zhou Yongjun incident\n\nThe Zhou Yongjun incident was a political controversy which involved the rendition of Zhou Yongjun (周勇军), a former student activist during the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, by the Hong Kong authorities to the People's Republic of China. Zhou attempted to enter Hong Kong from the United States \"via\" Macau using a forged Malaysian passport. Zhou's supporters alleged the renditioning to be illegal, and his lawyer, Democratic Party chairman Albert Ho, described Zhou's case as \"posing the biggest challenge to the one country, two systems principle laid down in the Basic Law.\" The Government of Hong Kong refused to comment on individual cases, and the People's Republic of China said Zhou was detained on several charges, including one of financial fraud.\n\nZhou was a student at the China University of Political Science and Law at the time of the student protests and ensuing military crackdown on 4 June 1989. He was among a group of students who were photographed kneeling in front of the Great Hall of the People on 22 April that year to present a list of demands to China’s leaders after the death of Hu Yaobang.\n\nZhou was arrested and held for two years in prison for his role in the protests. He subsequently lost his enrolment status as a student as well as his family registration as a Beijing resident. In 1992, Zhou fled to Hong Kong and then travelled to the United States, where he was granted resident's status. His first attempt to re-enter China was in 1998, but he was caught and sentenced to three years of administrative detention in a re-education-through-labour camp. After his release, he again left in 2002 for the United States,\n\nZhou made a second attempt to reenter mainland China on 28 September 2008, but he was intercepted by immigration department officials at the Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal, on suspicion of entering Hong Kong using a counterfeited travel document. He had travelled from the United States to Macao, using a Malaysian passport purchased from a travel agent in Los Angeles. The passport was in the name of Wang Xingxiang, a known alias of Zhong Gong leader Zhang Hongbao. He had repeatedly been denied requests for an official permit to return to China by the Chinese authorities. Zhou was on his way to Sichuan to visit his ailing father. Zhou was documented in Sichuan saying he was detained on arrival in Hong Kong and then secretly handed over to Shenzhen authorities two days later. Lawyer Li Jinjin said Zhou was initially held at the No.1 Detention Center in the southern city of Shenzhen, and later transferred to the Shenzhen Yantian Detention Center. In May 2009, seven months after his arrest, Zhou's family was notified that he had been detained by Sichuan authorities on fraud charges. The indictment by prosecutors in Shehong county stated Zhou used the alias of Wang Xingxiang, and attempted to transfer money from an account at Hang Seng Bank in Hong Kong to two banks, in the city and in Australia.\n\nHis lawyer, pan-democrat legislator Albert Ho, held a press conference on 12 October 2009 during which he said his client was picked up by immigration officers, put into a van and driven across the border to mainland China against his will. Ho said that normal protocol would be to send him back to his place of origin, which in this case would be Macau or the United States. Furthermore, Ho noted that there was no agreement with the mainland on extradition, and demanded that the Hong Kong government explain why Zhou was handed over to Shenzhen authorities; he appealed to Chief Executive Donald Tsang to make available police records of the incident and to press for Zhou's release. The Hong Kong Government, speaking only in general terms, said in an official statement that \"a passenger whose travel document does not meet the entry requirements will be repatriated to his or her place of embarkation or origin.\"\n\nZhou was tried in Shehong, and was sentenced to nine years in jail for a fraud attempted in Hong Kong. \"The Times\" remarked that \"details of the charges against Zhou are vague, as is common in China’s opaque legal system.\" Wang Xingxiang, the name in Zhou's bogus passport, was placed on a money laundering watch list following a complaint by the Hang Seng Bank received a suspicious request to transfer HK$6 million out of an account registered in that name. The transfer was not completed as the signature on the transfer form did not match that of the account signatory.\n\nAfter Zhou was sentenced, Secretary for Security, Ambrose Lee, rejected accusations the government knowingly turned Zhou over to the mainland authorities. On the other hand, he also denied there had been any serious errors in the Hong Kong Government's handling of the incident. The SCMP article on this goes on to state that \"However, a person with direct knowledge of the case said immigration officers did not know Zhou's real identity when they repatriated him and that Zhou did not state that he had residency in another country when officers told him that he would be sent to the mainland.\"\n\nAn editorial in the \"South China Morning Post\" on 6 February 2010 said the Chinese government action appeared to be extra-territorial. it criticised the Hong Kong government for hiding behind bland statements, and urged it to defend the principle of 'One country, two systems'\n\n"}
