{"id": "2927640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2927640", "title": "Acute medicine", "text": "Acute medicine\n\nAcute medicine is that part of internal medicine concerned with the immediate and early specialist management of adult patients with a wide range of medical conditions who present in hospital as emergencies. It developed in the United Kingdom in the early 2000s as a dedicated field of medicine, together with the establishment of acute medical units in numerous hospitals. Acute medicine is distinct from the broader field of emergency medicine, which is concerned with the management of all people attending the emergency department, not just those with internal medicine diagnoses. The emergence of acute medicine has both similarities with and differences from hospital medicine in North America, reflecting health system differences.\n\nThe field developed in the United Kingdom after the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh and the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow published a joint report in 1998 emphasising the importance of appropriate care for people with acute medical problems. Further reports led to the development of acute medicine as a dedicated specialty, and in 2003 it was recognised by the Specialist Training Authority as a subspecialty of General Internal Medicine.\n\nAround the same time, it was recognised that care for acutely admitted patients should ideally be concentrated in \"medical assessment units\" (MAUs), later named \"acute medical units\" (AMUs). A physician experienced in the management of acute medical problems could assess and treat these patients in the most appropriate fashion for the first 48 hours of their admission, aiming either for an early discharge with appropriate outpatient follow-up or transfer to a specialist ward. Severely ill patients who need close observation but do not require intensive care may be treated in a dedicated area such as a physician-run high dependency unit.\n\nIn 2007, some questioned whether the specialty would have a long-term future, if at some point UK government ED targets ceased to exist. This fear seems unwarranted in retrospect, as a clear clinical need for the specialty exists.\n\nA further development has been the increase of \"ambulatory care\". Where patients were previously admitted to hospital, it may now be possible for them to attend a clinic or an assessment area a number of times while their progress is monitored. This is now a very common approach to suspected deep vein thrombosis, but the NHS Institute for Innovation and Improvement has identified a number of other conditions that can be managed in an ambulatory emergency care setting.\n\nAcute Medicine became a specialty in a similar way to cardiology and respiratory medicine, with its own Certificate of Completion of Training (CCT) in 2009.\n\nThe establishment of acute medical units has been shown to decrease the risk of dying in hospital, length of stay in hospital, and the rate of patients for admission blocking the emergency department, all while not increasing the rate of readmissions after discharge and improving patient and staff satisfaction.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Society for Acute Medicine (SAM) is the national representative body for staff caring for medical patients in the acute hospital setting. Formed in 2000, SAM was established at a time when the concepts of acute medicine and the Acute Medical Unit (AMU) were in their infancy. Large numbers of specialist acute physicians have been appointed to drive forward changes in the management of patients on the AMU, and several hundred specialist registrars are now training on the newly approved Curriculum in Acute Internal Medicine. SAM has played a pivotal role in many of these developments and is represented on many national committees enabling a strong voice for acute physicians within the Royal Colleges and other key organisations. It organises two annual conferences (Spring and Autumn) and publishes the quarterly journal \"Acute Medicine\".\n\nIn the Netherlands, the Dutch Acute Medicine (DAM) society was formed in 2012 and held its first Congress on 28 September 2012 in the VU University Medical Center in Amsterdam. The newly developed curriculum will ensure 12 training posts throughout the Netherlands leading to a workforce of at least 100 \"acute & internal medicine specialists\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33557487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33557487", "title": "Africa/Harvard School of Public Health Partnership for Cohort Research and Training", "text": "Africa/Harvard School of Public Health Partnership for Cohort Research and Training\n\nThe Africa/Harvard School of Public Health Partnership for Cohort Research and Training (Africa/HSPH PaCT) launched in 2008, is a collaborative research project led by Principal Investigators, Dr. Hans-Olov Adami and Dr. Michelle D. Holmes. Together with research scientists, Dr. Shona Dalal and Dr. Todd G. Reid, this team represents the Harvard Coordinating Site of the Partnership with colleagues from five institutions in Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania, and Uganda. The Africa/HSPH PaCT project plans on investigating the association of lifestyle factors and chronic disease risk in sub- Saharan Africa, through a large epidemiological cohort study that will include approximately 500,000 participants. Africa/HSPH PaCT is the first and largest cohort study conducted in sub-saharan Africa to employ mobile phone technology to follow participants and collect data. Africa/HSPH PaCT will also provide the infrastructure for capacity-building and for training a new generation of health professionals.\n\nIn New York City of the 1980s, patients began presenting to doctors with mysterious symptoms. Dr. Michelle D. Holmes, Co-Principal Investigator of Africa/HSPH PaCT, was among those witnessing the explosion of the AIDS pandemic. Today, a new pandemic of heart disease, mental illness, cancer, and diabetes threatens Africa \n. We can learn from the '80's and prevent this looming disease tsunami. Cohort studies ask thousands about their diet, exercise, smoking, and other habits, to guide prevention policies. Africa is the last place on earth to have such studies; Africa/HSPH PaCT stands ready to fill the gap.\n\nThe Principal Investigators and host institutions for the African sites are: Dr. Jimmy Volmink who is the Dean of the Faculty of Health Sciences at Stellenbosch University in South Africa; Dr. Clement Adebamowo at the Institute of Human Virology in Nigeria; Dr. David Guwattude at Makerere University in Kampala and Dr. Francis Bajunirwe at Mbarara University in Mbarara, Uganda; and Dr. Marina Njelekela at Muhimbili University, in Tanzania. Cohorts in South Africa and Tanzania will consist of school teachers, and health professionals will be recruited in Nigeria. Complimenting these groups will be participants from peri-urban and rural locations in Uganda, in order to capture a wide variety of lifestyles and populations.\n\nAfrica/HSPH PaCT will investigate chronic non-communicable diseases (NCDs), namely cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus (DM), mental illness, breast and cervical cancers, which are on the rise in African countries. This research will provide a sound scientific basis for prevention of NCDs in Africa\n\nAfrica/HSPH PaCT will seek to:<br>\n- Better quantify the magnitude of NCDs\n- Discover risk factors for NCDs in Africa and how they interact with the African genome\n- Train a new generation of public health researchers and practitioners\n- Pave the way for innovative methods of data collection employing the latest technology and techniques in computational social science\n- Spur a wave of social entrepreneurism geared toward chronic disease management and public health prevention\n\nPilot studies, that capture the demographics, lifestyle factors, and chronic disease incidence have been started in all five African sites. This preliminary information collected from the pilot phase will guide and inform the next and larger phase of the initiative. A total of approximately 1500 participants have been enrolled in all five sites and followed for 6 months. In the Tanzania and South Africa sites, data was collected through a questionnaire. Face-to-face interviews were conducted in Kampala, Mbarara, and Nigeria. Blood samples were also collected in Mbarara and South Africa. A food-frequency questionnaire and follow-up questionnaires to measure incident NCDs were used to collect information in all five sites. Data from the pilot is currently being analyzed for publication\n\nAt enrollment time, a uniform food frequency questionnaire that accommodates the wide range of dietary patterns across sub-Saharan Africa will be administered. Prof. Walter Willett, Chair of the Nutrition Department at HSPH and Principal Investigator of the Nurses' Health Study, played a crucial role in developing this questionnaire. The baseline measurement covers a large range of lifestyle factors including, but not limited to, measures of stress, socioeconomic circumstances, education, reproductive factors (among women), physical activity, smoking and alcohol use, healthcare utilization, and anthropometric measures. Approximately 500,000 study participants from the five African sites will be enrolled over a five-year period and the timeline as follows:\n\nYear 1 : Hiring and training of personnel, development of questionnaire (including translation to and back-translation from the relevant languages), establishment of IT infrastructure, preparation of the biobank with blood samples, and definition of source populationYears 2 & 3 : Enrollment of 20,000 cohort participants per site, for a total of 100,000Year 4 & 5 : Follow-up, ascertainment and validation of outcomes, optimization of procedures for retention and compliance, and analyses of cross-sectional data. Cleaning databases, analyzing data, and preparing manuscripts based on the follow-up data\n\nA major part of Africa/HSPH PaCT’s innovation is research on cell phone use in scientific studies in Africa. Mobile phones offer entirely new opportunities for cost-effective, large-scale longitudinal studies. Africa/HSPH PaCT is the first study to rely strongly on mobile phones for enrollment, retention, and follow-up and will work in close collaboration with the Human Dynamics Group of the Pentland Lab (MediaLab, Massachusetts Institute of Technology) who are leaders in the field of mobile phone data analytics and computational social science.\n\nThe Africa/HSPH PaCT group is currently exploring collaborations with other research groups that are also in the beginning stages of creating large-scale cohort studies. In October 2010, the first-ever World Cohort Integration Workshop, hosted by Dr. Hans-Olov Adami was held in Hydra, Greece. This gathering brought together researchers from Mexico (EsMaestra, Mexican Teachers’ Cohort), India (Barshi Cohort), Sweden (LifeGene Sweden), Iceland (University of Iceland), and the United States and four countries in Africa (Africa/HSPH PaCT). The main purpose of this workshop was to share best practices as well as lessons learned and also to pave the way for sharing data, resources, and ideas in the long-term among cohort studies. Combined data from these groups will represent over two million study participants. Africa/HSPH PaCT is also exploring how best to pair up this large and unique cohort study with partners to create a cadre of social entrepreneurs to help spawn public health innovations in sub- Saharan Africa. Africa/HSPH PaCT currently supports one such social entrepreneurial venture, the ImpacTree project, that is an innovative public social platform for individuals to make their own impact on important issues in the developing world\n\n"}
{"id": "18700197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18700197", "title": "Aleh Negev", "text": "Aleh Negev\n\nAleh Negev () is a rehabilitation village for disabled children and adults in southern Israel. Located near Ofakim and covering , it falls under the jurisdiction of Merhavim Regional Council.\n\nThe 25-acre village is a multifaceted facility designed specifically for people over the age of 21 who are physically or mentally impaired, and for children seeking care in Southern Israel.\n\nAleh Negev is home to 220 residents and provides services to 12,000 out-patients. The village provides residential, educational, medical and employment services, and opportunities for social interaction. It was founded by the Aleh organization. The village is also called Nahalat Eran after Eran Almog, the severely autistic son of Major General Doron Almog. Eran Almog lived in the village until his death from Castleman's disease.\n\nThe village was built by the \"Aleh\" organization, which was founded by Doron Almog. Ground was broken by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon on 12 June 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "4900825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4900825", "title": "Askjelldalsvatnet", "text": "Askjelldalsvatnet\n\nAskjelldalsvatnet is a lake in the municipality of Vaksdal in Hordaland county, Norway. The lake lies at an elevation of in the Vikafjell mountains between the valleys of Modalen and Eksingedalen. The lake has a dam at the southern end of the lake. The dam is used to regulate the water level so that the water can be used for hydro-electric power at a nearby power plant. The lake Skjerjavatnet lies about to the west.\n\n"}
{"id": "11874234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11874234", "title": "Billy's Bootcamp", "text": "Billy's Bootcamp\n\nBilly's Bootcamp is an exercise program developed by Billy Blanks. It created a pop culture phenomenon in Japan in 2007, much like Tae Bo did in the U.S. earlier, selling more than 200,000 copies in May of the same year alone.\n\nBilly Blanks visited Japan on June 21, 2007 to promote Bootcamp. Upon arrival Blanks was greeted by 200 Japanese fans who affectionately call him \"Taicho\" (, chief) at Narita International Airport. Blanks appeared on many Japanese TV shows during his ten-day stay in Japan such as SMAP×SMAP where Shingo Katori, a member of popular Japanese boy band SMAP, impersonated Blanks.\n"}
{"id": "44221773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44221773", "title": "Board for Licensing Matters and Foreign Medical Practitioners", "text": "Board for Licensing Matters and Foreign Medical Practitioners\n\nThe Board for Licensing Matters and Foreign Medical Practitioners () was a public body in Norway, formed in the 1960s and tasked with matters relating to recognition of medical education from outside Norway and licensing of foreign medical practitioners. As a result of the EEA Agreement, its scope was narrowed to matters relating to medical practitioners from outside the European Economic Area in the 1990s, thus excluding most of western Europe and the new EU members from 2004. The body was dissolved in December 2007 and its responsibilities transferred to the Norwegian Board of Health Supervision. The board was appointed by the University of Oslo, which had been delegated the responsibility for foreign medical practitioners.\n"}
{"id": "33643178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33643178", "title": "Bohuslav Svoboda", "text": "Bohuslav Svoboda\n\nBohuslav Svoboda (born February 8, 1944) is a Czech politician and physician who served as the mayor of Prague from 30 November 2010 to 23 May 2013.\n\nSvoboda is a member of the Civic Democratic Party.\n\nBohuslav Svoboda was born on February 8, 1944 in Prague, Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia (today the Czech Republic). He also attended the Charles University in Prague.\n\n"}
{"id": "57398281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57398281", "title": "Busch fracture", "text": "Busch fracture\n\nIn medicine a Busch fracture is a type of fracture of the base of the distal phalanx of the fingers, produced by the removal of the bone insertion (avulsion) of the extensor tendon. Without the apropiate treatment, the finger becomes a hammer finger. It would correspond to the group B of the Albertoni classification. It is very common in motorcycle riders and soccer joggers, caused by a hyperflection when the tendon is exercising the maximum tension (the closed hand tightening the clutch lever or the brake lever ).\n\nThe Busch fracture is named after Friedrich Busch (1844-1916), who described this type of fracture in the 1860s. Busch's work was drawn on by Albert Hoffa in 1904, resulting in it sometimes being called a \"Busch-Hoffa fracture\".\n\nThe mechanism of this injury can be described as an avulsion of the tendon fixed to the distal falange.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3223425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3223425", "title": "Catchwater", "text": "Catchwater\n\nA catchwater device is a large-scale man-made device for catching surface runoff from hills and the sky from precipitation by channeling it to reservoirs for commercial and domestic use later. Freshwater is a scarce natural resource due to pollution, droughts, and overpopulation. Catchwater is a sustainable mechanism to increase freshwater in areas facing droughts or polluted waterways.\n\nCatchwater drains may take the form of concrete canals, such as in Hong Kong, where there are many. Alternatively, they may take the form of a large concrete sheet, smothering a hill, and preventing rainfall from entering the rock strata, with a smaller channeling system for transport of the water to the storage tank - this latter system is in operation in Gibraltar. In Hong Kong there are approximately 120 km of concrete channels, used as gutters built along hillsides in order to direct freshwater runoff into reservoirs for local water consumption. These catchwaters can overflow, causing dangerous hazards, erosive streams and blockages.\n\nAn earthship drain is water that is collected from impervious surfaces that are channeled into cisterns. A cistern is a well located underground. The water within these underground wells is heated by the sun. The water that is stored is used in domestic ways for washing dishes and bathing. Once water is used it is cycled and filtered in a module to be reused again\n\nRainwater tanks, also known as rain barrels in North America, are used to collect runoff coming from precipitation to prevent contamination from entering waterways. The only use of water from rain barrels is used for commercial use such as gardening and agriculture. Rain barrels are large containers that are connected to buildings through a gutter system which catches runoff from roofs. Many households use rain barrels as a substitute for a to reduce the amount of water they waste for recreational activities.\n\nA Rain garden is a depression in the ground covered by vegetation that helps filter and restore freshwater back into the water cycle. Rain gardens are used to decrease the speed of water by capturing the water, so it does not become surface runoff through infiltrating the soil.\n\nSome drains are able to self-maintain through geomorphological equilibrium. Catchwater drains are predominately used for agriculture. Agriculture uses the water to in catchwater drains for irrigation and the use for controlling flooding or other functions to direct large amounts of water away from crops during wet seasons. Catchwater drains also allow communities to wore down the water tables when they need to an allow the retentive of the water table to be restore after times of heavy use.\n\nCatchwater drains need a lot of landscaping and management.\nRain gardens are not suitable for steep slopes unlike other types of catchwater drain \nGardens can get congested and become impervious if land around the garden is not managed\nDue to the expense of these systems, they are generally only to be found where there is an extreme shortage of freshwater, because of geographical or political issues.\n"}
{"id": "5022890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5022890", "title": "Clifford E. Brubaker", "text": "Clifford E. Brubaker\n\nClifford E. Brubaker is Dean of the School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences at the University of Pittsburgh. Brubaker is also a Professor at that institution and an Adjunct Professor at both Xian Jiaotong University and Carnegie Mellon University.\n\nClifford E. Brubaker was born on December 23, 1938 in Muncie, Indiana. Brubaker received his Ph.D. degree in Exercise Physiology from the University of Oregon in 1968. Subsequently, in 1971, he became a Professor at the University of Virginia, eventually directing its Rehabilitation Engineering Research Center on Wheelchair Mobility. In July 1991, he became Dean of the University of Pittsburgh's School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences, where he founded the Department of Rehabilitation Science and Technology. In 1997, he led the school to develop the first multidisciplinary doctoral program in rehabilitation sciences in the United States. In 2002, Brubaker received a Lifetime Achievement \"Health Care Hero Award\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2343035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2343035", "title": "Combe Incorporated", "text": "Combe Incorporated\n\nCombe Incorporated, based in White Plains, New York, is an American privately owned personal-care company founded in 1949 by Ivan Combe. Combe products are sold in 64 countries on six continents. Ivan Combe primarily promotes the brand names instead of the company name. Combe owns the brands Just for Men, Sea-Bond, Vagisil, and Grecian Formula.\n\nCombe was the originator of the Clearasil brand but sold the rights to it in 1961 to Richardson-Vicks.\n\nIn October 2002, Combe acquired J.B. Williams, thereby adding such longtime names as Brylcreem, Aqua Velva and Cepacol to its brand stable.\n\nIn January 2011, Combe sold its cough remedy and skin care business to Reckitt Benckiser, and its foot care business (including Odor-Eaters) to Blistex.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26173797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26173797", "title": "Core Cities Health Improvement Collaborative", "text": "Core Cities Health Improvement Collaborative\n\nThe Core Cities Health Improvement Collaborative is a network established to improve public health in England’s eight biggest regional cities: Birmingham, Bristol, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle upon Tyne, Nottingham and Sheffield.\nBuilt upon the existing English Core Cities Group of local authorities, which was established in 1995 to boost the regional economic performance of England’s eight biggest cities outside London, the Health Improvement Collaborative has been established to apply the same spirit of collaboration to tackle health inequalities in those areas.\nEstablished in 2008 by the chief executives of the 10 NHS primary care trust in those eight cities (Birmingham is represented by three trusts), the aim of the collaborative is to engage all parties involved in tackling health inequalities and improving public health. \nPart-funded by the Department of Health, the group will spend its first two years focusing on tackling six major health inequalities: \n• Alcohol harm\n• All age, all cause early mortality \n• Obesity \n• Mental health and well-being\n• Smoking\n• Teenage pregnancy\nIn each case, the primary aim of the Core Cities Health Improvement Collaborative is to promote closer collaboration between the cities and their other stakeholders – such as local authorities, other public sector agencies, voluntary sector organisations and user groups. \nSix learning events are being organised to act as a catalyst for further collaborative working on each topic, while a powerful online knowledge management system ensures all stakeholders can quickly and easily identify and share their experience and materials with each other.\nTo assist with this process, a consortium of private sector partners has been appointed to facilitate the programme. Managed by Finnamore, the consortium also includes partners from Dr Foster Intelligence, VISTA and SOLACE Enterprises.\n\n"}
{"id": "12435689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12435689", "title": "Deccan School of Hospital Management", "text": "Deccan School of Hospital Management\n\nThe Department of Hospital Management,Deccan school of management or Deccan School of Hospital Management (DSHM), established in the year 1998, is an affiliated college of Osmania University, and is approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). DSHM is in Hyderabad in the state of Telangana, India. Among other management degrees, it offers a master's degree in \"Hospital Management\" (MHM). Masters in Hospital management is a programme which is designed to bring out managers in hospitals and healthcare organisations.mrs Manisha saxena is the principal of the college.syed murtuza bakshi sir is the vice principal of the college.\n\n"}
{"id": "2601147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2601147", "title": "Echogenic intracardiac focus", "text": "Echogenic intracardiac focus\n\nEchogenic intracardiac focus (EIF) is a small bright spot seen in the baby’s heart on an ultrasound exam. This is thought to represent mineralization, or small deposits of calcium, in the muscle of the heart. EIFs are found in about 3–5% of normal pregnancies and cause no health problems.\n\nEIFs themselves have no impact on health or heart function. Often the EIF is gone by the third trimester. If there are no problems or chromosome abnormalities, EIFs are considered normal changes, or variants.\n\nResearchers have noted an association between an EIF and a chromosome problem in the baby. Types of chromosome problems that are occasionally seen include trisomy 13 (Patau syndrome) or trisomy 21 (Down syndrome). In the case of an isolated EIF, and no other ultrasound findings, some studies show that the risk for a chromosome abnormality is approximately two times a woman’s background risk. Other studies report up to a 1% risk for Down syndrome when an EIF is seen on a second trimester fetal ultrasound exam.\n\nAn EIF is one clue which can contribute to the chances of a chromosome problem existing. Generally the risks are low if there are no other risk factors. Many babies with chromosome problems do not show any signs on ultrasound. Other factors are discussed in counseling include:\n\nThe best available evidence suggests that an isolated echogenic intracardiac focus in the fetus of an otherwise low risk woman does not confer an increased risk of fetal aneuploidy. Although some studies have reported that the number or location of echogenic foci affects the risk of fetal aneuploidy (higher risk with biventricular or right ventricular involvement), the general consensus is that these factors have not been proven to matter. When an echogenic intracardiac focus is identified in an otherwise normal second trimester fetus, a normal cell-free DNA test can be very reassuring and obviate the need for invasive testing.\n\nAmniocentesis is a test to check a baby's chromosomes. A small amount of amniotic fluid, which contains some fetal cells, is removed and tested. Amniocentesis is very accurate; however, there is a risk of miscarriage which occur in 0.5-1% of women who have amniocentesis. Results take about two weeks. A normal amniocentesis result means the EIF is not significant and there would be no other concerns about it. That is usually done between 15 and 20 weeks of pregnancy (during the second trimester).\n\nAn EIF in the fetal heart may indicate an increased chance of the baby having a chromosome problem. It does not affect the development of the baby or the function of the heart. If the baby has normal chromosomes, there would be no associated problems to be concerned about. No special treatment or tests are needed at delivery.\n\nIt is important to remember that with an isolated EIF, chances are strongly in favor of a normal pregnancy outcome, but the patient is entitled to further counseling and testing options.\n"}
{"id": "8101831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8101831", "title": "Ericsson method", "text": "Ericsson method\n\nThe Ericsson Method is a child conception idea that is reputed to help determine a baby's sex, developed and patented by Dr. Ronald Ericsson. The method has been in use since the mid-1970s. Dr. Ericsson maintains that the method is up to 85 percent effective, but some experts question the effectiveness of the method.\n\nExperiments with the Ericsson method have determined that the method does not create X- or Y-enriched sperm samples. Nevertheless, one study suggested that, with parents seeking girls, a 71% success rate can be obtained.\n\nThe Ericsson method is based on the belief that X-sperm swim slower than Y-sperm. Sperm are placed atop a \"column\" of increasingly thicker layers of albumin, and allowed to swim down into the solution. After a certain time period has elapsed, the sperm can be separated into the faster and slower swimmers. If the couple desires a male baby the faster swimmers are artificially inseminated, and if the couple desires a female baby the same procedure is enacted with the slower swimmers.\n\nThis method differs from the Shettles method, which does not utilize artificial insemination.\n"}
{"id": "2401051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2401051", "title": "Food and drink prohibitions", "text": "Food and drink prohibitions\n\nSome people abstain from consuming various foods and beverages in conformity with various religious, cultural, legal or other societal prohibitions. Many of these prohibitions constitute taboos. Many food taboos and other prohibitions forbid the meat of a particular animal, including mammals, rodents, reptiles, amphibians, fish, molluscs, crustaceans and insects, which may relate to a disgust response being more often associated with meats than plant-based foods. Some prohibitions are specific to a particular part or excretion of an animal, while others forgo the consumption of plants or fungi.\n\nFood prohibitions can be defined as rules, codified by religion or otherwise, about which foods, or combinations of foods, may not be eaten and how animals are to be slaughtered or prepared. The origins of these prohibitions are varied. In some cases, they are thought to be a result of health considerations or other practical reasons; in others, they relate to human symbolic systems.\n\nSome foods may be prohibited during certain religious periods (\"e.g.\", Lent), at certain stages of life (\"e.g.\", pregnancy), or to certain classes of people (\"e.g.\", priests), even though the food is otherwise permitted. On a comparative basis food taboos seem to make no sense at all as what may be declared unfit for one group may be perfectly acceptable to another. Whether scientifically correct or not, often food taboos are meant to protect the human individual, but there are numerous other reasons for their existence. An ecological or medical background is apparent in many, including some that are seen as religious or spiritual in origin. Food taboos can help utilizing a resource more efficiently, but when applied to only a subsection of the community, a food taboo can also lead to the monopolization of a food item by those exempted. A food taboo acknowledged by a particular group or tribe as part of their ways, aids in the cohesion of the group, helps that particular group to stand out and maintain its identity in the face of others and therefore creates a feeling of \"belonging\".\n\nVarious religions forbid the consumption of certain types of food. For example, Judaism prescribes a strict set of rules, called \"Kashrut\", regarding what may and may not be eaten, and notably forbidding the mixing of meat with dairy products. Islam has similar laws, dividing foods into \"haram\" (forbidden) and \"halal\" (permitted). Jains often follow religious directives to observe vegetarianism. Hindus do not eat beef, and some Hindus apply the concept of \"ahimsa\" (non-violence) to their diet and consider vegetarianism as ideal, and practice forms of vegetarianism. In some cases, the process of preparation rather than the food itself comes under scrutiny. For instance, in early medieval Christianity, certain uncooked foods were of dubious status: a penitential ascribed to Bede outlined a (mild) penance for those who ate uncooked foods, and Saint Boniface wrote to Pope Zachary (in a letter preserved in the Boniface correspondence, no. 87) asking him how long bacon would have to be cured to be proper for consumption. The Kapu system was used in Hawaii until 1819.\n\nAside from formal rules, there are cultural taboos against the consumption of some animals. Within a given society, some meats will be considered to be not for consumption that are outside the range of the generally accepted definition of a foodstuff. Novel meats, \"i.e.\" animal-derived food products not familiar to an individual or to a culture, generally provoke a disgust reaction, which may be expressed as a cultural taboo. For example, although dog meat is eaten, in certain circumstances, in Korea, Vietnam, and China, it is considered inappropriate as a food in Western countries. Likewise, horse meat is rarely eaten in the English-speaking world, although it is part of the national cuisine of countries as widespread as Kazakhstan, Japan, Italy, and France.\n\nSometimes food prohibitions enter national or local law, as with the ban on cattle abattoirs in most of India, and horse slaughter in the United States. Even after reversion to Chinese rule, Hong Kong has not lifted its ban on supplying meat from dogs and cats, imposed during British colonial rule.\n\nEnvironmentalism, ethical consumerism and other activist movements are giving rise to new prohibitions and eating guidelines. A fairly recent addition to cultural food prohibitions is the meat and eggs of endangered species or animals that are otherwise protected by law or international treaty. Examples of such protected species include some species of whales, sea turtles, and migratory birds. Similarly, sustainable seafood advisory lists and certification discourage the consumption of certain seafoods due to unsustainable fishing. Organic certification prohibits certain synthetic chemical inputs during food production, or genetically modified organisms, irradiation, and the use of sewage sludge. The Fair Trade movement and certification discourage the consumption of food and other goods produced in exploitative working conditions. Other social movements generating taboos include Local Food and \"The 100-Mile Diet\", both of which encourage abstinence from non-locally produced food, and veganism, in which adherents endeavour not to use or consume animal products of any kind.\n\nJudaism strictly forbids the consumption of amphibians such as frogs. The restriction is described in Leviticus 11:29-30 and 42-43. Derivative chemical products from amphibians, as well as with other proscribed animals, must be avoided.\n\nIn other cultures, foods such as frog legs are treasured as delicacies, and the animals may be raised commercially in some circumstances. However, environmental concerns over the endangerment of frogs, even possibly pushing them into extinction, due to overconsumption has prompted legal action in nations such as France to limit their use in food. The French Ministry of Agriculture began taking measures to protect native frog species in 1976, and efforts have continued since. Mass commercial harvesting of the animals was banned in 1980, though international imports as well as private, individual hunting and cooking remains legal in many areas.\n\nIn Judaism, the Deuteronomic Code and Priestly Code explicitly prohibit the bat. Bat meat is haraam (prohibited) in Islam.\n\nBears are not considered kosher animals in Judaism. Observant Jews therefore abstain from eating bear meat. All predatory terrestrial animals are forbidden in Islam.\n\nThe Torah (Leviticus 11:13) explicitly states that the eagle, vulture, and osprey are not to be eaten. A bird now commonly raised for meat in some areas, the ostrich, is explicitly banned as food in some interpretations of Leviticus 11:16. Rabbis have frequently inferred that the singling out of birds of prey as well as natural scavengers in tradition for prohibition creates a distinction with other avian species; thus, eating chickens, ducks, geese, and turkeys is allowed.\n\nIn contrast Islamic dietary rules cite the ostrich is permissible to consume, while birds of prey (defined specifically as those who hunt with claws and talons) are forbidden.\n\nScavengers and carrion-eaters such as vultures and crows are avoided as food in many cultures because they are perceived as carriers of disease and unclean, and associated with death. An exception is the rook, which was a recognised country dish, and which has in more recent times been served in a Scottish restaurant in London. In Western cultures today, most people regard songbirds as backyard wildlife rather than as food.\n\nA balut is a developing bird embryo (usually a duck or chicken) that is boiled and eaten from the shell. Part of the Quran includes understanding and respecting the law that any animal products should not be eaten if the animal has not been slaughtered properly, making the animal or animal-product \"maytah\". Because balut is an egg containing a partly-developed embryo, Muslims believe this makes it \"haram\", or \"forbidden\".\n\nThe eating of camels is strictly prohibited by the Torah in and . The Torah considers the camel unclean because even though it chews the cud, or regurgitates—the way bovines, sheep, goats, deer, antelope, and giraffes (all of which are kosher) do—it does not meet the cloven hoof criterion. Like these animals, camels (and llamas) are ruminants with a multi-chambered stomach. Camels are even-toed ungulates, with feet split in two. However, a camel's feet form soft pads rather than hard hooves.\n\nIn Islam, the eating of camel is allowed, and is indeed traditional in the Islamic heartland in Saudi Arabia and the Arabian Peninsula more generally.\n\nThere is a strong taboo against eating cats in many Western parts of the world, including most of the Americas and Europe. Cat meat is forbidden by Jewish and Islamic law as both religions forbid the eating of carnivores. Cat meat is eaten as part of uncommon cuisines of China, Vietnam and Switzerland. Cats are commonly regarded as pets in Western countries, or as working animals, kept to control vermin, not as a food animal, and consumption of cats is thus seen as a barbaric act by a large part of the population in those countries. Cat meat was eaten, for example, during the famine in the Siege of Leningrad. In 1996, a place that served cat meat was supposedly discovered by the Argentine press in a shanty town in Rosario, but in fact the meal had been set up by media from Buenos Aires.\n\nIn 2008, it was reported that cats were a staple part of the local diet in Guangdong, China, with many cats being shipped down from the north and one Guangzhou-based business receiving up to 10,000 cats per day from different parts of China. Protesters in other parts of China have urged the Guangdong provincial government to crack down on cat traders and restaurants that serve cat meat, although no law says it is illegal to eat cats.\n\nThe term \"roof-hare\" (roof-rabbit, German \"Dachhase\") applies to cat meat presented as that of a hare, another small mammal used as a source of meat. Subtracting the skin, feet, head and tail, hare and cat carcasses appear similar. The only way to distinguish them is by looking at the \"processus hamatus\" of the feline scapula, which should have a \"processus suprahamatus\". \"Dar gato por liebre\" (\"to pass off a cat as a hare\") is an expression common to many Spanish-speaking countries, equivalent to \"to pull the wool over someone's eyes\" derived from this basic scam. There is an equivalent Portuguese expression \"Comprar gato por lebre\", meaning \"to buy a cat as a hare\". The expression \"churrasco de gato\" (\"cat barbecue\") is largely used in Brazil with a humorous note, especially for roadside stands that offer grilled meat on a stick (often coated with farofa), due to their poor hygiene and that the source of the meat is mostly unknown. Also, in the Philippines, there is an urban legend and a joke that some vendors use cat meat to make \"siopao\" (steamed bun), leading some Filipinos to name their pet cats \"Siopao\". Meanwhile, \"kitten cakes\" and \"buy three shawarma - assemble a kitten\" are common Russian urban jokes about the suspect origin of food from street vendors' stalls. In English, the common expression refers to what the victim of the trick thinks is happening: \"Buy a pig in a poke.\"\n\nThe inhabitants of Vicenza in northern Italy are reputed to eat cats, although the practice has been out of use for decades. In February 2010, a popular Italian gastronome was criticized and suspended from a show for talking about the former practice of eating cat stew in Tuscany.\n\nDuring the so-called \"Bad Times\" of hunger in Europe during and after World War I and World War II \"roof-rabbit\" was a common food. Those who thought that they were eating Australian rabbits were really eating European cats.\n\nSome restaurants in the Hai Phong and Hạ Long Bay area in north Vietnam advertise cat meat hot pot as \"little tiger\", and cats in cages can be seen inside.\n\nCattle hold a traditional place as objects of reverence in countries such as India. Many Hindus, particularly Brahmins, are vegetarian and strictly abstaining from eating meat. Many of those who do eat meat abstain from the consumption of beef, especially in the north and west India, as the cow holds a sacred place in Hinduism. For example, tradition states that the goddess Kamdhenu manifests herself as a wish-granting divine cow, with such stories repeated over generations. Beef is widely eaten in south India, especially Kerala, and some parts of northeast India.\n\nIn contrast to cow slaughter, consumption of dairy products such as milk, yogurt, and particularly ghee (a form of butter) is highly common in India. Cow-derived products play a significant role in Hinduism with milk particularly being highly revered, often being used in holy ceremonies.\n\nBullocks were the primary source of agricultural power and transportation in the early days, and as India adopted an agricultural lifestyle, the cow proved to be a very useful animal: this respect stemming out of necessity led to abstaining from killing cows for food; for example, if a famine-stricken village kills and eats its bullocks, they will not be available to pull the plough and the cart when next planting season comes. However, this hypothesis has found little data to support it. Areas suffering from famine may resort to consuming cattle in efforts to survive till the next season.\n\nBy Indian law, the slaughter of female cattle (i.e. cows) is banned in almost all Indian states except Kerala, West Bengal and the seven north eastern states. A person involved in either cow slaughter or its illegal transportation could be jailed in many states. Slaughter of cows is an extremely provocative issue for many Hindus.\n\nMany Zoroastrians do not eat beef, because of the cow that saved Zoroaster's life from murderers when Zoroaster was a baby. Actual Pahlavi texts state that Zoroastrians should be fully vegetarian.\n\nSome ethnic Chinese may also refrain from eating cow meat, because many of them feel that it is wrong to eat an animal that was so useful in agriculture. Some Chinese Buddhists discourage the consumption of beef, although it is not considered taboo. A similar taboo can be seen among Sinhalese Buddhists, who consider it to be ungrateful to kill the animal whose milk and labour provides livelihoods to many Sinhalese people.\n\nWhile both beef and dairy consumption is permitted in Judaism, the mixing of dairy products with any sort of meat is completely forbidden.\n\nChewing gum is a soft, cohesive substance intended for chewing but not swallowing. Humans have used chewing gum for at least 3,000 years. In Singapore importing chewing gum is a criminal offence. The exception is made for dental or nicotine gum, which is available from dentists and pharmacies.\n\nAlmost all types of non-piscine seafood, such as shellfish, lobster, shrimp or crayfish, are forbidden by Judaism because such animals live in water but do not have both fins and scales.\n\nAs a general rule, all seafood is permissible in the 3 \"madh'hab\" of Sunni Islam except Hanafi school of thought. The Ja'fari school of Islamic jurisprudence, which is followed by most Shia Muslims, prohibits non-piscine (lacking scales) seafood (with the exception of shrimp).\n\nMilk, cheese, yogurt, and other dairy products are not consumed by vegans due to their animal origin. The consumption of dairy products together with meat is also prohibited as non-kosher in the Jewish faith, based on Deuteronomy 14:21: \"You shall not boil a young goat in its mother's milk.\"\n\nGenerally in all Western countries eating dog meat is considered taboo, though that taboo has been broken under threat of starvation in the past. Dog meat has been eaten in every major German crisis at least since the time of Frederick the Great, and is commonly referred to as \"blockade mutton.\" In the early 20th century, consumption of dog meat in Germany was common. Suspicions about the provenance of Frankfurter meat sold by German immigrants in the United States led to the coinage of the term 'hot dog'. In 1937, a meat inspection law targeted against trichinella was introduced for pigs, dogs, boars, foxes, badgers, and other carnivores. Dog meat has been prohibited in Germany since 1986. In 2009 a scandal erupted when a farm near Częstochowa was discovered rearing dogs to be rendered down into \"smalec\" - lard.\n\nAccording to the ancient Hindu scriptures (cf. Manusmṛti and medicinal texts like Sushruta Samhita), \"dog's meat\" was regarded as the most unclean (and rather poisonous) food possible. Dog's meat is also regarded as unclean under Jewish and Islamic dietary laws; therefore, both of those religious traditions also discourage its consumption.\n\nIn Irish mythology, legend recounts how Cú Chulainn, the great hero of Ulster, was presented with a Morton's fork, forcing him to either break his \"geis\" (taboo) about eating dog meat (his name means Culann's Hound) or break his taboo about declining hospitality; Cú Chulainn chose to eat the meat, leading ultimately to his death.\n\nIn Mexico during the pre-Columbian era a hairless dog named xoloitzcuintle was commonly eaten. After colonization, this custom stopped. Lewis & Clark plus the men in his expedition were recorded in Lewis's journals of having eaten and enjoyed dog meat which was common practice in Indians of the American Plains.\n\nIn East Asia, most countries excluding Vietnam, North and South Korea rarely consume dog meat either because of Islamic or Buddhist values or animal rights as in the Philippines. Manchus have a prohibition against the eating of dog meat, which is sometimes consumed by the Manchus' neighboring Northeastern Asian peoples. The Manchus also avoid the wearing of hats made of dog's fur. In addition to Manchus, Chinese Mongol, Miao, Muslims, Tibetan, Yao and Yi have a taboo against dog meat. In Indonesia, due to its majority Islamic population, consuming dog meat is prohibited, with exception of Christian Batak and Minahasan ethnic groups that traditionally consumed dog meat.\n\nThe Urapmin people of the New Guinea Highlands do not kill or eat dogs, unlike some neighboring tribes, nor do they let dogs breathe on their food.\n\nJains abstain from eating eggs. Vegans also abstain from eggs, due to their animal origin. Many Hindu vegetarians also refrain from eating eggs.\n\nAn egg that naturally contains a spot of blood may not be eaten under Jewish and Islamic tradition, but eggs without any blood are commonly consumed (and are not considered to be meat, so may be eaten with dairy).\n\nBuddhist monks are forbidden from eating elephant meat.\n\nElephant meat is also not considered Kosher by Jewish dietary laws because elephants do not have cloven hooves and they are not ruminants.\n\nAmong the Somali people, most clans have a taboo against the consumption of fish, and do not intermarry with the few occupational clans that do eat it.\n\nThere are taboos on eating fish among many upland pastoralists and agriculturalists (and even some coastal peoples) inhabiting parts of southeastern Egypt, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Somalia, Kenya, and northern Tanzania. This is sometimes referred to as the \"Cushitic fish-taboo\", as Cushitic speakers are believed to have been responsible for the introduction of fish avoidance to East Africa, though not all Cushitic groups avoid fish. The zone of the fish taboo roughly coincides with the area where Cushitic languages are spoken, and as a general rule, speakers of Nilo-Saharan and Semitic languages do not have this taboo, and indeed many are watermen. The few Bantu and Nilotic groups in East Africa that do practice fish avoidance also reside in areas where Cushites appear to have lived in earlier times. Within East Africa, the fish taboo is found no further than Tanzania. This is attributed to the local presence of the tsetse fly and in areas beyond, which likely acted as a barrier to further southern migrations by wandering pastoralists, the principal fish-avoiders. Zambia and Mozambique's Bantus were therefore spared subjugation by pastoral groups, and they consequently nearly all consume fish.\n\nThere is also another center of fish avoidance in Southern Africa, among mainly Bantu speakers. It is not clear whether this disinclination developed independently or whether it was introduced. It is certain, however, that no avoidance of fish occurs among southern Africa's earliest inhabitants, the Khoisan. Nevertheless, since the Bantu of southern Africa also share various cultural traits with the pastoralists further north in East Africa, it is believed that, at an unknown date, the taboo against the consumption of fish was similarly introduced from East Africa by cattle-herding peoples who somehow managed to get their livestock past the aforementioned tsetse fly endemic regions.\n\nCertain species of fish are also forbidden in Judaism such as the freshwater eel (Anguillidae) and all species of catfish. Although they live in water, they appear to have no scales (except under a microscope) (see Leviticus 11:10-13). Sunni Muslim laws are more flexible in this. Catfish and shark are generally seen as halal as they are special types of fish. Eel is generally considered permissible in the four Sunni \"madh'hab.\" The Ja'fari jurisprudence followed by most Shia Muslims forbid all species of fish that does not have scales, it also forbid all shell fish species except prawns.\n\nMany tribes of the Southwestern United States, including the Navaho, Apache, and Zuñi, have a taboo against fish and other water-related animals, including waterfowl.\n\nNorse settlers in Greenland (10th–15th centuries AD) developed a taboo against fish consumption, as recounted in Jared Diamond's \"\". This is unusual, as Norsemen did not generally have a taboo against fish, Diamond noting that \"Fish bones account for much less than 0.1% of animal bones recovered at Greenland Norse archeological sites, compared to between 50 and 95% at most contemporary Iceland, northern Norway, and Shetland sites.\"\n\nMany countries observe this as a delicacy but it is a taboo in most countries. Considered as corpses, fetuses of goats and sheep are a delicacy in parts of India, China and Vietnam. Known as \"kutti pi\" (fetus bag), this is prepared to become a soup or a spicy curry. With only the intestines removed, the fetus is slow cooked for a few minutes.\n\nVedic Brahmins, Gaudiya Vaishnavas, tantriks and some Buddhist priests abstain from fungi and all vegetables of the onion family (Alliaceae). They believe that these excite damaging passions. In North Indian traditions, plants of the onion family, and effectively all overwintering plants are considered taboo. This is possibly due to the influence of Jain traditions. In Jain traditions, bad karma is generated with all forms of killing, including that of plants. Hierarchy of living creatures is based on the number of senses they possess. In this hierarchy, overwintering plants such as onions are ranked higher than other food crops such as wheat and rice. The ability of onions to observe the changing of the seasons and bloom in spring is believed to be an additional 'sense' absent in lower plants. The amount of bad karma generated depends on the number of senses the creature possesses. Therefore, it is thought best to avoid eating onions. Fungi are eschewed as they grow at night.\n\nIn Iceland, rural parts of Sweden and Western Finland, although not taboo, mushrooms were not widely eaten before the Second World War. They were viewed as a food for cows and were also associated with the stigma of being a wartime and poverty food. This is a marked contrast to the ancient Romans, who considered the mushroom a delicacy of the highest order and held it in high regard as food fit for emperors.\n\nGuinea pigs, or \"cuy\", are commonly eaten in Peru, in the southwestern cities and villages of Colombia, and among some populations in the highlands of Ecuador, mostly in the Andes highlands. Cuyes can be found on the menu of restaurants in Lima and other cities in Peru, as well as in Pasto, Colombia. Guinea pig meat is exported to the United States and European nations.\n\nIn 2004, the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation took legal action to stop vendors serving \"cuy\" at an Ecuadorian festival in Flushing Meadows Park. New York State allows for the consumption of guinea pigs, but New York City prohibits it. Accusations of cultural persecution have since been leveled.\n\nThe guinea pig's close rodent cousins, capybara and paca, are consumed as food in South America. The Catholic Church's restriction on eating meat during Lent does not apply to the capybara, as it is specifically exempted from this rule.\n\nHorse meat is part of the cuisine of countries as widespread as Italy, with an average of 900 grams consumed per person annually; Belgium, France, Spain and Switzerland, where horse meat is common in supermarkets; Germany with only 50 grams consumed per person on average annually. It is still sold in some specialized butcher shops in eastern Austria, and also eaten in Polynesia , Serbia, Slovenia, Kazakhstan , but is taboo in some religions and many countries. It is forbidden by Jewish law, because the horse is not a ruminant, nor does it have cloven hooves. Similarly to dogs, eating horses was a taboo for the Castro culture in Northwestern Portugal, and it is still a counter-cultural practice in the region.\n\nHorse meat is forbidden by some sects of Christianity. In 732, Pope Gregory III instructed Saint Boniface to suppress the pagan practice of eating horses, calling it a \"filthy and abominable custom\". The Christianisation of Iceland in 1000 AD was achieved only when the Church promised that Icelanders could continue to eat horsemeat; once the Church had consolidated its power, the allowance was discontinued. Horsemeat is still popular in Iceland and is sold and consumed in the same way as beef, lamb and pork.\n\nIn Islam, opinions vary as to the permissibility of horse meat. Some cite a hadith forbidding it to Muslims, but others doubt its validity and authority. Wild horses are generally seen as halal while domesticated horses and asses are viewed as forbidden. Various Muslim cultures have differed in the attitude in eating the meat. Historically, Turks and Persians have eaten the meat, while in North Africa this is rare.\n\nHorse meat consumption is modestly counter-cultural in the English-speaking world. In Canada, horse meat is legal. Most Canadian horse meat is exported to Continental Europe or Japan. The consumer protection show \"Kassensturz\" of Swiss television SRF discovered the bad treatment and brutal animal husbandry in Canadian horse meat farms, consequently the import from such farms has been boycotted. In the United States, sale and consumption of horse meat is illegal in California and Illinois. However, it was sold in the US during WW II, since beef was expensive, rationed and destined for the troops. The last horse meat slaughterhouse in USA was closed in 2007. Nevertheless, discarded leisure, sport and work horses are collected and sold at auctions. They are shipped across the country by transporters to the borders of Canada in the north and Mexico in the south to be sold to horse meat butchers. The handling of the animals at the collection points and during the hours of transport is brutal. Some animals do not survive the hours long transports. The issue of horse consumption in the UK and Ireland was raised in 2013 with regards to the 2013 horse meat contamination scandal.\n\nAlthough generally horse meat is also avoided in the Balkans, though not Slovenia, as horse is considered to be a noble animal, or because eating horse meat is associated with war-time famine, it has a small niche market in Serbia.\n\nOf all the taboo meat, human flesh ranks as the most heavily proscribed. In recent times humans have consumed the flesh of fellow humans in rituals and out of insanity, hatred, or overriding hunger – never as a common part of their diet, but it is thought that the practice was once widespread among all humans. The consumption of human flesh is forbidden by Hinduism.\n\nCatholics, Lutherans, and Orthodox Christians do not view themselves as engaging in cannibalism when taking communion, although the bread and wine are believed to become \"of the same substance\" as the body and blood of Christ before being consumed, they remain bread and wine in all ways to the senses. Catholics refer to this as transubstantiation; the Orthodox believe the change occurs, but hesitate to attempt a description of the mechanism, believing it to be a sacred mystery. Most Protestants and other Christian denominations do not believe that transubstantiation (or any actual physical presence of Jesus in any form) occurs at all.\n\nCannibalism used to be required in certain tribes; the Fore people of Papua New Guinea were particularly well-studied in their eating of the dead, because it led to kuru, a disease believed to be transmitted by prions. In the book \"Daily life in China, on the eve of the Mongol invasion, 1250-1276\" Jacques Gernet refers to restaurants that specialized in human flesh. From the context, it does not appear that this was a freak event associated with famine.\n\nIn Judaism and within other groups following the Hebrew Torah certain locusts are allowed as food (Leviticus 11:22 and Matthew 3:4). Except for certain locusts and related species, insects are not considered Kosher foods; dietary laws also require that practitioners check food carefully for insects. In Islam locusts are considered lawful food along with fish that do not require ritual slaughtering.\n\nHoney is concentrated nectar and honeydew which has been regurgitated by bees. It is considered kosher even though honey bees are not, an apparent exception to the normal rule that products of an unclean animal are also unclean. This topic is covered in the Talmud and is explained to be permissible on the grounds that the bee does not originally make the honey, the flower does, while the bees store and dehydrate the liquid into honey. This is different to royal jelly, which is produced by bees directly and is considered non-Kosher.\n\nSome vegans also avoid honey as they would any other animal product.\n\nKangaroo meat is banned in the U.S. state of California. The ban was first imposed in 1971; a moratorium was put in place in 2007, allowing the importation of the meat, but the ban was re-enacted in 2015.\n\nLettuce is taboo to the Yazidis religion.\n\nIslamic, Judaic law (including Noahide Law), and some laws of some Christians forbid any portion that is cut from a live animal (Genesis 9:4, as interpreted in the Talmud, Sanhedrin 59a). Judaism restricts this prohibition to land animals and birds; fish do not require kosher slaughter, but must first be killed before being eaten. \n\nExamples of the eating of animals that are still alive include eating live seafood, such as \"raw oyster on the half shell\" and ikizukuri (live fish). Sashimi using live animals has been banned in some countries. Practices such as \"Ikizukuri\" are prohibited in Judaism under the law forbidding unnecessary pain to animals.\n\nAnother example occurs in Shanghai, China, and surrounding areas, where live shrimp is a common dish served both in homes and restaurants. The shrimp are usually served in a bowl of alcohol, which makes the shrimp sluggish and complacent.\n\nRelated may be the revulsion in Western cultures around eating fertilized partly developed eggs (balut) consumed in parts of Southeast Asia.\n\nMonkey brains is a dish consisting of, at least partially, the brain of some species of monkey or ape. In Western popular culture, its consumption is repeatedly portrayed and debated, often in the context of portraying exotic cultures as exceptionally cruel, callous, and/or strange.\n\nMonkeys are revered animals in India, largely because of the monkey god Hanuman. Most vegetarian Hindus do not eat any kind of meat, including monkeys. Meat eating Indians also do not kill or eat monkeys. Killing and eating monkeys (or other animals which are considered wild) is a taboo and illegal in India.\n\nOffal is the internal organs of butchered animals, and may refer to parts of the carcass such as the head and feet (\"trotters\") in addition to organ meats such as sweetbreads and kidney. Offal is a traditional part of many European and Asian cuisines, including such dishes as the steak and kidney pie in the United Kingdom or \"callos a la madrileña\" in Spain. Haggis has been Scotland's national dish since the time of Robert Burns. In northeast Brazil, there is a similar dish to haggis called \"buchada\", made with goats' stomach.\n\nExcept for heart, tongue (beef), liver (chicken, beef, or pork), and intestines used as natural sausage casings, organ meats consumed in the U.S. tend to be regional or ethnic specialities; for example, tripe as \"menudo\" or \"mondongo\" among Latinos and Hispanos, chitterlings in the Southern United States, scrapple on the Eastern Seaboard, fried-brain sandwiches in the Midwest, and beef testicles called Rocky Mountain oysters or \"prairie oysters\" in the west. In Argentina and other Spanish language countries bull's testicles are served as \"huevos de toro\" or 'bull's eggs'.\n\nIn some regions, such as the European Union, brains and other organs which can transmit bovine spongiform encephalopathy (\"mad cow disease\") and similar diseases have now been banned from the food chain as specified risk materials.\n\nAlthough eating the stomach of a goat, cow, sheep, or buffalo might be taboo, ancient cheesemaking techniques utilize stomachs (which contain rennet) for turning milk into cheese, a potentially taboo process. Newer techniques for making cheese include a chemical process with artificial rennet. This means that the \"process\" by which cheese is made (and not the cheese itself) is a factor in determining whether it is forbidden or allowed by strict vegetarians.\n\nUnited States Department of Agriculture (USDA) data reports pork as the most widely eaten meat in the world. Consumption of pigs is forbidden in Islam, Judaism and certain Christian denominations, such as Seventh-day Adventists. This prohibition is set out in the holy texts of the religions concerned, e.g. Qur'an 16:115, Leviticus 11:7-8 and Deuteronomy 14:8. Pigs were also taboo in at least three other cultures of the ancient Middle East: the Phoenicians, Egyptians and Babylonians. In some instances, the taboo extended beyond eating pork, and it was also taboo to touch or even look at pigs.\n\nThe original reason for this taboo is debated. Maimonides seems to have thought the uncleanness of pigs was self-evident, but mentions with particular aversion their propensity to eat feces. In the 19th century some people attributed the pig taboo in the Middle East to the danger of the parasite trichina, but this explanation is now out of favour. James George Frazer suggested that in ancient Israel, Egypt and Syria, the pig was originally a sacred animal, which for that reason could not be eaten or touched; the taboo survived to a time when the pig was no longer regarded as sacred, and was therefore explained by reference to its being unclean.\n\nMore recently, Marvin Harris posited that pigs are not suited for being kept in the Middle East on an ecological and socio-economical level; for example, pigs are not suited to living in arid climates and thus require more water than other animals to keep them cool, and instead of grazing they compete with humans for foods such as grains. As such, raising pigs was seen as a wasteful and decadent practice. Another explanation offered for the taboo is that pigs are omnivorous, not discerning between meat or vegetation in their natural dietary habits. The willingness to consume meat sets them apart from most other domesticated animals which are commonly eaten (cattle, sheep, goats, etc.) who would naturally eat only plants. Mary Douglas has suggested that the reason for the taboo against the pig in Judaism is three-fold: (i) it trangresses the category of ungulates, because it has a split hoof but does not chew the cud, (ii) it eats carrion and (iii) it was eaten by non-Israelites.\n\nPoppy seeds are used as condiments in many cultures. In Singapore, poppy seeds are classified as \"prohibited goods\" by the Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB).\n\nThe book of Leviticus in the Bible classifies the rabbit as unclean because it does not have a split hoof, even though it does chew and reingest partially digested material (equivalent to \"chewing the cud\" among ruminants). The consumption of rabbit is allowed in Sunni Islam, and is popular in several majority-Sunni countries (e.g. Egypt, where it is a traditional ingredient in \"molokheyya\"), but it is forbidden in the Ja'fari jurisprudence of Twelver Shia Islam.\n\nIn most Western cultures, rats and mice are considered either unclean vermin or pets and thus unfit for human consumption, traditionally being seen as carriers of plague. However, rats are commonly eaten in rural Thailand and Vietnam and other parts of Indochina. Cane rats (\"Thryonomys swinderianus\" and \"Thryonomys gregorianus\") and some species of field mice are a rich source of protein in Africa. Bamboo rats are also commonly eaten in the poorer parts of Southeast Asia.\n\nIn Ghana, \"Thryonomys swinderianus\" locally referred to as \"Akrantie\", \"Grasscutter\" and (incorrectly) as \"Bush rat\" is a common food item. The proper common name for this rodent is \"Greater Cane Rat\", though actually it is not a rat at all and is a close relative of porcupines and guinea pigs that inhabit Africa, south of the Saharan Desert. In 2003, the U.S. barred the import of this and other rodents from Africa because of an outbreak of at least nine human cases of monkeypox, an illness never before been seen in the Western Hemisphere.\n\nHistorically, rats and mice have also been eaten in the West during times of shortage or emergency, such as during the Siege of Vicksburg and the Siege of Paris. Dormice were also domesticated and raised for food in Ancient Rome and by Etruscans; to this day the edible dormouse (\"Glis glis\") is considered a rare delicacy in Slovenia and Croatia. In some Asian countries, mice are eaten, and go by the name of vole. In France, rats bred in the wine stores of Gironde were cooked with the fire of broken wine barrels and eaten, dubbed as \"cooper's entrecôte\". In some communities the muskrat (which is not a rat at all) is hunted for its meat (and fur) in e.g. some parts of Flanders where it is served as \"waterkonijn\" (water rabbit). See also under \"Fish\" for consumption of beaver tails. Nutria, another large rodent, has been hunted or raised for food in the United States.\n\nRats were also traditionally consumed by certain communities in the Indian state of Bihar.\n\nConsumption of any sort of rodent, or material originating from rodents, is forbidden in Judaism.\n\nIslam strictly forbids the consumption of reptiles, such as crocodiles and snakes. Eating reptiles is also forbidden in Judaism. In other cultures, foods such as alligator are treasured as delicacies, and the animals are raised commercially.\n\nAs they are molluscs, snails are not kosher. Snails are not allowed to be eaten in Islam because it is not Halal.\n\nIn certain versions of Jainism, Buddhism and Hinduism, vegetables of the onion genus are restricted according to Shastras. Many Hindus discourage eating onion and garlic along with non-vegetarian food during festivals or Hindu holy months of Shrawan, puratassi and Kartik. However, shunning onion and garlic is not very popular among Hindus as compared to avoiding non-vegetarian foods, so many people do not follow this custom.\n\nJains not only abstain from consumption of meat, but also do not eat root vegetables (such as carrots, potatoes, radish, turnips, etc) as doing so kills the plant and they believe in ahimsa.\n\nChinese Buddhist cuisine traditionally prohibits garlic, \"Allium chinense\", asafoetida, shallot, and \"Allium victorialis\" (victory onion or mountain leek), while Kashmiri Brahmins forbid \"strong flavored\" foods. This encompasses garlic, onion, and spices such as black pepper and chili pepper, believing that pungent flavors on the tongue inflame the baser emotions.\n\nIn Yazidism, the eating of lettuce and butter beans is taboo. The Muslim religious teacher and scholar, Falah Hassan Juma, links the sect's belief of evil found in lettuce to its long history of persecution by Muslims and Christians. Historical theory claims one ruthless potentate who controlled the city of Mosul in the 13th century ordered an early Yazidi saint executed. The enthusiastic crowd then pelted the corpse with heads of lettuce.\n\nThe followers of Pythagoras were vegetarians, and \"Pythagorean\" at one time came to mean \"vegetarian\". However, their creed prohibited the eating of beans. The reason is unclear: perhaps the flatulence they cause, perhaps as protection from potential favism, but most likely for magico-religious reasons.\n\nVegetables like broccoli and cauliflower, while not taboo, may be avoided by observant Jews and other religions due to the possibility of insects or worms hiding within the numerous crevices. Likewise, fruits such as blackberries and raspberries are recommended by kashrut agencies to be avoided as they cannot be cleaned thoroughly enough without destroying the fruit.\n\nThe common Egyptian dish mulukhiyah, a soup whose primary ingredient is jute leaves (which leaves did not have any other culinary purpose), was banned by the Fatimid Caliph Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah sometime during his reign (996-1021 CE). The ban applied specifically to mulukhiyah, and also to other foodstuffs said to be eaten by Sunnis. While the ban was eventually lifted after the end of his reign, the Druze, who hold Al-Hakim in high regard and give him quasi-divine authority, continue to respect the ban, and do not eat \"mulukhiyah\" of any kind to this day.\n\nSunni Islam permits Muslims to consume the flesh of whales that have died of natural causes as there is a famous Sunni hadith which cites Muhammad's approval of such. Whale meat is forbidden (haram) in Shia Islam as whales do not have scales. In much of the world whale meat is not eaten due to the endangerment of whales but it is not traditionally forbidden.\n\nSome religions – including Buddhism, Islam, Jainism, Rastafari movement, Bahá'í Faith, and various branches of Christianity such as the Baptists, the Church of God In Christ, Methodists, the Latter-day Saints, Seventh-day Adventists and the Iglesia ni Cristo – forbid or discourage the consumption of alcoholic beverages.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible describes a Nazirite vow (Numbers 6:1-21) that includes abstinence from alcohol, specifically wine and probably barley beer (according to the Septuagint translation and the Bauer lexicon: \"σικερα\", from the Akkadian shikaru, for \"barley beer)\". The New JPS translation is: \"wine and any other intoxicant\". Other versions such as the NIV prohibit both alcohol and all alcohol derived products such as wine vinegar. There is no general taboo against alcohol in Judaism.\n\nThere are also cultural taboos against the consumption of alcohol, reflected for example in the Teetotalism or Temperance movement. There is also something of a cultural taboo in several countries, against the consumption of alcohol by women during pregnancy for health reasons, as seen, for example, which in the Maternity Protection Convention, 2000 by ILO.\n\nSome religions prohibit drinking or eating blood or food made from blood. In Islam the consumption of blood is prohibited (\"Haraam\"). \"Halal\" animals should be properly slaughtered to drain out the blood. Unlike in other traditions, this is not because blood is revered or holy, but simply because blood is considered ritually unclean or \"Najis\", with certain narratives prescribing ablutions (in the case of no availability of water) if contact is made with it. In Judaism all mammal and bird meat (not fish) is salted to remove the blood. Jews follow the teaching in Leviticus, that since \"the life of the animal is in the blood\", no person may eat (or drink) the blood. Iglesia ni Cristo and Jehovah's Witnesses prohibit eating or drinking any blood.\n\nAccording to the Bible, blood is only to be used for special or sacred purposes in connection with worship (Exodus chapters 12, 24, 29, Matthew 26:29 and Hebrews). In the first century, Christians, both former Jews (the Jewish Christians), and new Gentile converts, were in dispute as to which particular features of Mosaic law were to be retained and upheld by them. The Apostolic Decree suggested that, among other things, it was necessary to abstain from consuming blood:\n\n\"Hot drinks\" are taboo for members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The term is misleading as the ban is applied exclusively to coffee and tea (i.e. not hot cocoa or herbal teas). The Word of Wisdom, a code of health used by church members, outlines prohibited and allowed substances. While not banned, some Mormons avoid caffeine in general, including cola drinks. Members of the Seventh-day Adventist Church also generally avoid caffeinated drinks.\n\nThere is a widely reported story, possibly apocryphal, that some Catholics urged Pope Clement VII (1478 – 1534) to ban coffee, calling it \"devil's beverage\". After tasting the beverage, the Pope is said to have remarked that the drink was \"... so delicious that it would be a sin to let only misbelievers drink it.\" (See the History of coffee.)\n\nWhile human breast milk is universally accepted for infant nutrition, some cultures see the consumption of breast milk after weaning as taboo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38147204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38147204", "title": "Froin's syndrome", "text": "Froin's syndrome\n\nFroin's syndrome – coexistence of xanthochromia, high protein level and marked coagulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). It is caused by meningeal irritation (e.g. during spinal meningitis) and CSF flow blockage by tumour mass or abscess. Stagnation of the CSF within the thecal sac facilitates exudation from the tumour itself and activation of coagulation factors. A clinical test formerly used for evaluation of spinal stenosis is Queckenstedt's maneuver. Nowadays, a magnetic resonance imaging is used for identification of CSF flow obstruction. It often shows the prolongation of T1 and T2 signal in CSF caudal to a level of block. This phenomenon is named after Georges Froin (1874–1932), a French physician who first described it.\n"}
{"id": "44878590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44878590", "title": "Great Hagi Jaffar Dam", "text": "Great Hagi Jaffar Dam\n\nGreat Hagi Jaffar Dam (from , in ), is a dam in Kukherd city, southwestern Kukherd District, Hormozgan Province, Iran.\n\nAwe Sherino Valley basin is located in the southern part of Zeer Mountain and southern Bust Gez Mountain is a beg Mount from Kukherd District () in the city of Bastak (Bastak County شهرستان بستک) Hormozgan Province.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59097", "title": "Health maintenance organization", "text": "Health maintenance organization\n\nIn the United States, a health maintenance organization (HMO) is a medical insurance group that provides health services for a fixed annual fee. It is an organization that provides or arranges managed care for health insurance, self-funded health care benefit plans, individuals, and other entities, acting as a liaison with health care providers (hospitals, doctors, etc.) on a prepaid basis. The Health Maintenance Organization Act of 1973 required employers with 25 or more employees to offer federally certified HMO options if the employer offers traditional healthcare options. Unlike traditional indemnity insurance, an HMO covers care rendered by those doctors and other professionals who have agreed by contract to treat patients in accordance with the HMO's guidelines and restrictions in exchange for a steady stream of customers. HMOs cover emergency care regardless of the health care provider's contracted status.\n\nHMOs often require members to select a primary care physician (PCP), a doctor who acts as a \"gatekeeper\" to direct access to medical services but this is not always the case. PCPs are usually internists, pediatricians, family doctors, geriatricians, or general practitioners (GPs). Except in medical emergency situations, patients need a referral from the PCP in order to see a specialist or other doctor, and the gatekeeper cannot authorize that referral unless the HMO guidelines deem it necessary. Some HMOs pay gatekeeper PCPs set fees for each defined medical procedure they provide to insured patients (fee-for-service) and then capitate specialists (that is, pay a set fee for each insured person's care, irrespective of which medical procedures the specialists performs to achieve that care), while others use the reverse arrangement. \n\n\"Open access\" and \"POS\" (point of service) products are a combination of an HMO and traditional indemnity plan. The member(s) are not required to use a gatekeeper or obtain a referral before seeing a specialist. In that case, the traditional benefits are applicable. If the member uses a gatekeeper, the HMO benefits are applied. However, the beneficiary cost sharing (e.g., co-payment or coinsurance) may be higher for specialist care.\nHMOs also manage care through utilization review. That means they monitor doctors to see if they are performing more services for their patients than other doctors, or fewer. HMOs often provide preventive care for a lower copayment or for free, in order to keep members from developing a preventable condition that would require a great deal of medical services. When HMOs were coming into existence, indemnity plans often did not cover preventive services, such as immunizations, well-baby checkups, mammograms, or physicals. It is this inclusion of services intended to maintain a member's health that gave the HMO its name. Some services, such as outpatient mental health care, are limited, and more costly forms of care, diagnosis, or treatment may not be covered. Experimental treatments and elective services that are not medically necessary (such as elective plastic surgery) are almost never covered.\n\nOther choices for managing care are case management, in which patients with catastrophic cases are identified, or disease management, in which patients with certain chronic diseases like diabetes, asthma, or some forms of cancer are identified. In either case, the HMO takes a greater level of involvement in the patient's care, assigning a case manager to the patient or a group of patients to ensure that no two providers provide overlapping care, and to ensure that the patient is receiving appropriate treatment, so that the condition does not worsen beyond what can be helped.\n\nAlthough businesses pursued the HMO model for its alleged cost containment benefits, some research indicates that private HMO plans don't achieve any significant cost savings over non-HMO plans. Although out-of-pocket costs are reduced for consumers, controlling for other factors, the plans don't affect total expenditures and payments by insurers. A possible reason for this failure is that consumers might increase utilization in response to less cost sharing under HMOs. Some have asserted that HMOs (especially those run for profit) actually increase administrative costs and tend to cherry-pick healthier patients.\n\nThough some forms of group \"managed care\" did exist prior to the 1970s, in the USA they came about chiefly through the influence of U.S. President Richard Nixon and his friend Edgar Kaiser. In discussion in the White House on February 17, 1971, Nixon expressed his support for the essential philosophy of the HMO, which John Ehrlichman explained thus: \"All the incentives are toward less medical care, because the less care they give them, the more money they make.\" Kaiser Permanente disputes Ehrlichman's \"secondhand, inarticulate paraphrase\", and presents a record of the briefs received by Ehrlichman and the White House.\n\nThe earliest form of HMOs can be seen in a number of \"prepaid health plans\". In 1910, the Western Clinic in Tacoma, Washington offered lumber mill owners and their employees certain medical services from its providers for a premium of $0.50 per member per month. This is considered by some to be the first example of an HMO. However, Ross-Loos Medical Group, established in 1929, is considered to be the first HMO in the United States; it was headquartered in Los Angeles and initially provided services for Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (DWP) and Los Angeles County employees.200 DWP employees enrolled at a cost of $1.50 each per month. Within a year, the Los Angeles Fire Department signed up, then the Los Angeles Police Department, then the Southern California Telephone Company (now AT&T Inc.), and more. By 1951, enrollment stood at 35,000 and included teachers, county and city employees. In 1982 through the merger of the Insurance Company of North America (INA) founded in 1792 and Connecticut General (CG) founded in 1865 came together to become CIGNA. Also in 1929 Dr. Michael Shadid created a health plan in Elk City, Oklahoma in which farmers bought shares for $50 to raise the money to build a hospital. The medical community did not like this arrangement and threatened to suspend Shadid's licence. The Farmer's Union took control of the hospital and the health plan in 1934. Also in 1929, Baylor Hospital provided approximately 1,500 teachers with prepaid care. This was the origin of Blue Cross. Around 1939, state medical societies created Blue Shield plans to cover physician services, as Blue Cross covered only hospital services. \nThese prepaid plans burgeoned during the Great Depression as a method for providers to ensure constant and steady revenue.\n\nIn 1970, the number of HMOs declined to fewer than 40. Paul M. Ellwood, Jr., often called the \"father\" of the HMO, began having discussions with what is today the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that led to the enactment of the Health Maintenance Organization Act of 1973. This act had three main provisions:\n\nThis last provision, called the dual choice provision, was the most important, as it gave HMOs access to the critical employer-based market that had often been blocked in the past. The federal government was slow to issue regulations and certify plans until 1977, when HMOs began to grow rapidly. The dual choice provision expired in 1995.\n\nIn 1971, Gordon K. MacLeod MD developed and became the director of the United States' first federal Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) program. He was recruited by Elliot Richardson, the secretary of the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare.\n\nHMOs operate in a variety of forms. Most HMOs today do not fit neatly into one form; they can have multiple divisions, each operating under a different model, or blend two or more models together.\nIn the staff model, physicians are salaried and have offices in HMO buildings. In this case, physicians are direct employees of the HMOs. This model is an example of a closed-panel HMO, meaning that contracted physicians may only see HMO patients. \nPreviously this type of HMO was common, although currently it is nearly inactive.\nIn the group model, the HMO does not employ the physicians directly, but contracts with a multi-specialty physician group practice. Individual physicians are employed by the group practice, rather than by the HMO. The group practice may be established by the HMO and only serve HMO members (\"captive group model\"). Kaiser Permanente is an example of a captive group model HMO rather than a staff model HMO, as is commonly believed. An HMO may also contract with an existing, independent group practice (\"independent group model\"), which will generally continue to treat non-HMO patients. Group model HMOs are also considered closed-panel, because doctors must be part of the group practice to participate in the HMO - the HMO panel is closed to other physicians in the community.\n\nIf not already part of a group medical practice, physicians may contract with an independent practice association (IPA), which in turn contracts with the HMO. This model is an example of an open-panel HMO, where a physician may maintain their own office and may see non-HMO members.\n\nIn the network model, an HMO will contract with any combination of groups, IPAs (Independent Practice Associations), and individual physicians. Since 1990, most HMOs run by managed care organizations with other lines of business (such as PPO, POS and indemnity) use the network model.\n\nHMOs in the USA are regulated at both the state and federal levels. They are licensed by the states, under a license that is known as a certificate of authority (COA) rather than under an insurance license. State and federal regulators also issue \"mandates\", requirements for health maintenance organizations to provide particular products. In 1972 the National Association of Insurance Commissioners adopted the HMO Model Act, which was intended to provide a model regulatory structure for states to use in authorizing the establishment of HMOs and in monitoring their operation.\n\nHMOs often have a negative public image due to their restrictive appearance. HMOs have been the target of lawsuits claiming that the restrictions of the HMO prevented necessary care. Whether an HMO can be held responsible for a physician's negligence partially depends on the HMO's screening process. If an HMO only contracts with providers meeting certain quality criteria and advertises this to its members, a court may be more likely to find that the HMO is responsible, just as hospitals can be liable for negligence in selecting physicians. However, an HMO is often insulated from malpractice lawsuits. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) can be held to preempt negligence claims as well. In this case, the deciding factor is whether the harm results from the plan's administration or the provider's actions. ERISA does not preempt or insulate HMOs from breach of contract or state law claims asserted by an independent, third-party provider of medical services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1695286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1695286", "title": "Intermetamorphosis", "text": "Intermetamorphosis\n\nIntermetamorphosis is a delusional misidentification syndrome, related to agnosia. The main symptoms consist of patients believing that they can see others change into someone else in both external appearance and internal personality. The disorder is usually comorbid with neurological disorders or mental disorders.\n\nAn example from medical literature is a man who was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. After some time he mistook his wife for his deceased mother and later for his sister. As an explanation, he stated that he had never been married or that his wife had left him. Later he mistook his son for his brother and his daughter for another sister. Visual agnosia or prosopagnosia were not diagnosed, as the misidentification also took place during phone calls. On several occasions he mistook the hospital for the church he used to go to.\n\nThe disorder was first described in 1932 by P. Courbon and J. Tusques (\"Illusions d'intermétamorphose et de la charme\"), in the Journal: Annales Medico-Psychologiques issue 14, page 401-406.\n"}
{"id": "32508535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32508535", "title": "John M. Broughton", "text": "John M. Broughton\n\nJohn M. Broughton is an American psychologist and professor who specialises in cultural studies, media and visual culture, youth culture, popular culture, gender, and violence. Broughton graduated from Cambridge University with both a BA and Masters of Arts, later earning his PhD at Harvard University. He became an Associate Professor of Psychology and Education at the Teachers College at Columbia University in 1976, and continues to hold the position.\n\nBroughton was raised in a small village 15 miles south of London. His parents were organizers of their community's film society, and he \"grew up as a Cinema Paradiso projector boy\". He later spent six influential years in the UK's Reserve Officers' Training Corps, where he became an expert on explosives and hand grenades. He claimed the experience increased his interest in the military aspects of culture and graphic imagery used to justify war.\n\nAfter a short period pursuing a career in journalism, Broughton began studying psychology at Cambridge University. While there he earned both his BA and Master of Arts degrees. After graduating from Cambridge he moved from England to the United States, where he earned his PhD at Harvard University. While at Harvard he partly focused his studies on the world-views and moral development of adolescents. His unpublished doctoral dissertation was titled \"The Development of Natural Epistemology in Adolescence and Early Adulthood.\"\n\nBroughton became an Associate Professor of Psychology and Education at the Teachers College at Columbia University in 1976 and continues to hold the position. When Teachers College underwent departmental reorganisation in the mid 1990s, Broughton retained his title but moved to the Department of Arts and Humanities, where he expanded classroom techniques to include the use of music, advertising, magazines, video games, television, and the internet. His classes often cover cultural studies, media and visual culture, youth culture, popular culture, gender, and violence. In October 1999 Broughton co-ordinated a conference at Teachers College titled \"Children, Culture and Violence\". The conference brought together experts on school violence, and was sponsored by Teacher's College, Adelphi University, Long Island University, and the Glass Institute for Basic Psychoanalytic Research. Most presentations addressed the roots of violence and finding ways to break the cycle. Some of his students organised the first national conference on Cultural Studies and Education, which was held at Teachers College. In June 2003 Broughton contributed severals works to Columbia doctoral student and curator Frank Shifreen's art exhibit \"Art Against War\". The exhibition featured posters analysing war from over 14 countries. Broughton co-founded the \"Film and Education Research Center\" with doctoral advisee Kelvin Shawn Sealey. FERA is now a part of the Center for Educational Outreach and Innovation at Teachers College, and its stated mission is to explore the interplay between cinema, teaching, and learning. It is a research, publishing, and teaching project. On 26 March 2004, FERA hosted actor and scholar Cornel West of \"The Matrix Reloaded\" and \"The Matrix Revolutions\" at Teachers College to give a program entitled \"Film & Education: The Matrix of the Possible\". In April 2005, Sealey again worked with Broughton to organise \"Project Citizen\", a series of academic film discussions in talk show format.\n\nBroughton has been quoted as an expert on psychology and media culture in several national publications, including \"The Observer\" in 2001, \"New York Daily News\" in 2003, the \"Star-Telegram\" in 2004, the \"Baltimore Sun\" in 2006, and \"ABC News\" in 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36694616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36694616", "title": "Journey (NGO)", "text": "Journey (NGO)\n\nJourney () is a Maldives-based non-governmental organization (NGO) that focuses on the use of drugs and HIV (human immunodeficiency virus). The organization was officially registered on November 29, 2005 with the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Republic of Maldives and functions within the premises of the Maldivian legal and regulatory system. Journey is a unique organisation to make the people aware about the fact that,in the case of drug users\"Recovery is Possible\"and to change the social belief or social stigma 'Once an Addict always an Addict'.\n\nThe primary mission of Journey consists of the following:\n\n\nThe main goals of Journey are:\n\n\nJourney was established by recovering addicts who had gone through all the suffering and misery of ceasing drug use. In addition, the NGO is managed and run by recovering drug users. Journey believes its staff members are extremely helpful as they can feel and understand the experiences of their addicted brothers and sisters. This is the main reason why Journey took the initiative to help and assist others through their recoveries from drug dependency.\n\nJourney has started three HIV and drug prevention campaigns to prevent youth from experimenting with drugs and engaging in risky activities which can lead to HIV. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "488613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=488613", "title": "Kapu", "text": "Kapu\n\nKapu is the ancient Hawaiian code of conduct of laws and regulations. The \"kapu\" system was universal in lifestyle, gender roles, politics and religion. An offense that was \"kapu\" was often a capital offense, but also often denoted a threat to spiritual power, or theft of \"mana\". \"Kapus\" were strictly enforced. Breaking one, even unintentionally, often meant immediate death, \"Koo kapu\". The concept is related to taboo and the \"tapu\" or \"tabu\" found in other Polynesian cultures. The Hawaiian word \"kapu\" is usually translated to English as \"forbidden\", though it also carries the meanings of \"keep out\", \"no trespassing\", \"sacred\", \"consecrated\", or \"holy\".\n\nThe opposite of kapu is \"noa\", meaning \"common\" or \"free\".\n\nThe \"Kapuhili\" were restrictions placed upon contact with chiefs (kings), but these also apply to all people of known spiritual power. \"Kapu Kū mamao\" means prohibited from a place of the chief, while \"Kapu noho\" was to assemble before the chief. It was \"kapu\" when entering a chief's personal area to come in contact with his hair or fingernail clippings, to look directly at him, and to be in sight of him with a head higher than his. Wearing red and yellow feathers (a sign of royalty) was \"kapu\", unless an individual was of the highest rank. Places that are \"kapu\" are often symbolized by \"Pahu Kapu\", two crossed staffs, each with a white ball atop.\n\nThe \"Ai kapu\" was the \"kapu\" system governing contact between men and women. Many \"alii\" obtained their power through this system, and then would give thanks to the god of politics Kū. \"Ai\" means \"to eat\" and \"Kapu\" means sacred. Therefore, it is translated to \"sacred eating\". It first came about because Wākea wanted to marry his daughter, \"Hoohōkūlani\". To do this, his \"kupuna\" advised him to establish the \"Ai kapu\" which allowed him time away from his wife to be alone with his daughter. In this particular practice, men and women could not eat meals together. Furthermore, certain foods such as pork (the body form of the god Lono), most types (67 of the 70 varieties) of bananas (body form of the god Kanaloa), and coconuts (body form of the god Kū) were considered \"kapu\" to women. In fact, women could not even make coconut rope. Taro (body form of the god Kāne) was kapu for women to cook and prepare. Some large fish were also kapu for women to eat. Isabella Abbott, a leading ethnobotanist of Hawaii theorizes that because of the limited \"noa\" (free) diet for Hawaiian women, seaweeds were relied upon more heavily for Hawaiians than other Pacific islands.\n\nThe \"kapu\" system was used in Hawaii until 1819, when King Kamehameha II, acting with his mother Queen Keōpūolani and his father's other queen Kaʻahumanu, abolished it by the symbolic act of sharing a meal of forbidden foods with the women of his court. Abolishing the \"ai kapu\" assured political power to the line of Kamehameha rulers as monarchs because it limited the power of the rulers below them. Originally, it was from this political system that the rulers throughout the island would gain rank, power, and prestige.\n\nThe ambiguities in the Polynesian concept (from the English point of view) are reflected in the different senses of the word in different national Englishes: in modern usage in Hawaii, \"KAPU\" is often substituted for the phrase \"No Trespassing\" on private property signage. Although kapu can be taken to mean \"keep out\", kapu has a larger meaning to most residents of Hawaii. By contrast, in New Zealand, the comparable word \"tapu\" is almost always applied in English as meaning \"sacred\".\n\nSome terms using Kapu:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20519274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20519274", "title": "Koronis Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Koronis Pharmaceuticals\n\nKoronis Pharmaceuticals is a Seattle area biotechnology company founded in 1998. Koronis is dedicated to the development of antiviral therapeutics based on a novel mechanism, Viral Decay Acceleration (VDA). The Company’s lead product candidate is KP-1461 for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. The company also has products in development for the treatment of hepatitis C and RSV infection.\n\n"}
{"id": "8766919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8766919", "title": "Kuakini Medical Center", "text": "Kuakini Medical Center\n\nKuakini Medical Center is a private hospital in Honolulu, Hawaii. The center is run by the Kuakini Health System which also runs geriatric care facilities and a foundation.\n\nThe organization started as the Japanese Benevolent Society in 1892 and was incorporated in 1899. The first Japanese Charity Hospital opened in 1900 and expanded in 1902. A larger facility was built in 1917 at the present site with donations from Emperor Taishō of Japan. In 1934 Emperor Hirohito of Japan donated funds for more expansion. After the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, the US military occupied the hospital during World War II and renamed it Kuakini Medical Center, after the street.\nThe street was in turn named for John Adams Kuakini (1791–1844) who was acting Governor of Oahu in the 1830s.\n\n"}
{"id": "52962240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52962240", "title": "League of the Physically Handicapped", "text": "League of the Physically Handicapped\n\nThe League of the Physically Handicapped in New York City was formed in May 1935 to protest discrimination by the Works Progress Administration (WPA). The Home Relief Bureau of New York City stamped applications by handicapped applicants with \"PH\" which stood for \"physically handicapped\". Marked as \"unemployable\" disabled people were denied access to WPA-created jobs.\nMembers of the League held a sit-in at the Home Relief Bureau for nine days and a weekend sit-in at the WPA headquarters in June 1935. These actions eventually led to the creation of 1,500 jobs for disabled workers in New York City in 1936. The league had dissolved by 1938.\n"}
{"id": "21223401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21223401", "title": "List of Ministers for Public Health (Uruguay)", "text": "List of Ministers for Public Health (Uruguay)\n\nList of Ministers for Public health of Uruguay since 1933:\n\n"}
{"id": "7625847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7625847", "title": "List of hospitals in Brazil", "text": "List of hospitals in Brazil\n\nThere are 105 hospitals in Brazil, accounting for a total of 480,332 hospital beds.\n66% of hospitals are private and the remaining 34% are public, being either Federal, State or Municipal hospitals.\n\nThis is a list of hospitals in Brazil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55942874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55942874", "title": "Maragaret Kennix", "text": "Maragaret Kennix\n\nMargaret Kennix (?-1585) was a Dutch empiric that practiced medicine in London.\n\nMargaret Kennix was an unlicensed medical practitioner during the Elizabethan Era in London. She had her own medical practice from the years 1571-1585. Margaret was not native to London, and she was known as a Dutch empiric that practiced medicine. It is believed that she lived on the street Old Seacole Lane in London.\n\nMargaret Kennix dealt with issues regarding her authority to practice medicine in London. She particularly dealt with the Royal College of Physicians that had a strong presence in the city of London. The Royal College of Physicians was one of the main governing bodies of medicine. King Henry VII established it as a Royal Charter in 1918. The college attempted to put a complete stop to Margaret's medical practice.\n\nMargaret Kennix turned to the royal family for help after the College had consistently attempted to shut down her practice entirely. Margaret knew that having someone in the royal family vouching for her was very beneficial. Queen Elizabeth I informed the College in 1581 of her support for Margaret Kennix. Sir Francis Walsingham informed the College of Queen Elizabeth's support for Margaret, and he listed two separate reasons as to why she should be allowed to practice medicine. The first reason was, \"God has given her a special knowledge to the benefit of the poorer sort\". He also informed the college that her family, \"wholly depend on the exercise of her skill\". This was due to Margaret's husband not being able to work. The College responded to this act of support with a resounding and stout answer. The writer for the College said that Margaret Kennix was an, \"outlandish, ignorant, sorry woman\". The College also suggested that allowing Margaret Kennix to practice medicine would set a harmful standard and would be breaking the \"Holsome Lawes\" that prevent medical practices foreign to the College. The College believed her \"weakness and insufficiency\" were enough to warrant such a response. The final decision of the College is unknown.\n"}
{"id": "3261719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3261719", "title": "Megavitamin therapy", "text": "Megavitamin therapy\n\nMegavitamin therapy is the use of large doses of vitamins, often many times greater than the recommended dietary allowance (RDA) in the attempt to prevent or treat diseases. Megavitamin therapy is typically used in alternative medicine by practitioners who call their approach orthomolecular medicine. Vitamins are useful in preventing and treating illnesses specifically associated with dietary vitamin shortfalls, but the conclusions of medical research are that the broad claims of disease treatment by advocates of megavitamin therapy are unsubstantiated by the available evidence. It is generally accepted that doses of any vitamin greatly in excess of nutritional requirements will result either in toxicity (vitamins A and D) or in the excess simply being metabolised; thus evidence in favour of vitamin supplementation supports only doses in the normal range. Critics have described some aspects of orthomolecular medicine as food faddism or even quackery. Research on nutrient supplementation in general suggests that some nutritional supplements might be beneficial, and that others might be harmful; several specific nutritional therapies are associated with an increased likelihood of the condition they are meant to prevent.\n\nMegavitamin therapy must be distinguished from the usual 'vitamin supplementation' approach of traditional multivitamin pills. Megavitamin doses are far higher than the levels of vitamins ordinarily available through western diets. A study of 161,000 individuals (post-menopausal women) provided, in the words of the authors, \"convincing evidence that multivitamin use has little or no influence on the risk of common cancers, cardiovascular disease, or total mortality in postmenopausal women\".\n\nIn the 1930s and 1940s, some scientific and clinical evidence suggested that there might be beneficial uses of vitamins C, E, and niacin in large doses. Beginning in the 1930s, the Shutes in Canada developed a megadose vitamin E therapy for cardiovascular and circulatory complaints, naming it the \"Shute protocol\". Tentative experiments in the 1930s with larger doses of vitamin C led to Frederick Klenner's development of megadose intravenous vitamin C treatments for polio and other viruses in the 1940s. William Kaufman published articles in the 1940s that detailed his treatment of arthritis with frequent, high doses of niacinamide. Rudolf Altschul and Abram Hoffer applied large doses of the immediate release form of niacin (Vitamin B) to treat hypercholesterolemia. In a 1956 publication entitled \"Biochemical Individuality\", Roger J. Williams introduced concepts for individualized megavitamins and nutrients. Megavitamin therapies were also publicly advocated by Linus Pauling in the late 1960s.\n\nAlthough megavitamin therapies still largely remain outside of the structure of evidence-based medicine, they are increasingly used by patients, with or without the approval of their treating physicians, often after recommendations by practitioners of orthomolecular and naturopathic medicine. The proposed efficacy of various megavitamin therapies to reduce cancer risk has been contradicted by results of one clinical trial. \n\nThe US Recommended Dietary Allowance for vitamin C for adult women is 76 mg/day and for adult men 90 mg/day. Although Linus Pauling was known for highly respectable research in chemistry and biochemistry, he was also known for promoting the consumption of vitamin C in large doses. Although he claimed and stood firm in his claim that consuming over 1,000 mg is helpful for one’s immune system when fighting a head cold, the results of empirical research do not align with this view. A meta-analysis concluded that supplementary vitamin C significantly lowered serum uric acid, considered a risk factor for gout. One population study reported an inverse correlation between dietary vitamin C and risk of gout. A review of clinical trials in the treatment of colds with small and large doses of Vitamin C has established that there is no evidence that it decreases the incidence of common colds. After 33 years of research, it is still not established whether vitamin C can be used as a treatment for cancer.\n\nThe US Recommended Dietary Allowance for vitamin E for adult women and men is 15 mg/day. The US Food and Nutrition Board set a Tolerable upper intake level (UL) at 1,000 mg (1,500 IU) per day derived from animal models that demonstrated bleeding at high doses. In the US, the popularity for vitamin E as a dietary supplement–popular doses 400, 800 and 1000 IU/day–peaked around 2000. Declines in usage were attributed to publications of studies that showed either no benefits or negative consequences from vitamin E supplements. One meta-analysis showed no association between vitamin E supplementation and cardiovascular events (nonfatal stroke or myocardial infarction) or cardiovascular mortality. Another meta-analysis concluded that high-dosage vitamin E increased all-cause mortality.\n\nThe US Recommended Dietary Allowance for niacin for adult women is 14 mg/day and for adult men 16 mg/day. Niacin is available as a prescription product, either immediate release (500 mg tablets; prescribed up to 3,000 mg/day) or extended release (500 and 1,000 mg tablets; prescribed up to 2,000 mg/day). In the US, niacin is also available as a dietary supplement at 500 to 1,000 mg/tablet. Niacin has sometimes been used in combination with other lipid-lowering medications. Systematic reviews found no effect of niacin on cardiovascular disease or death, in spite of raising high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Reported side effects include an increased risk of diabetes.\n\nRelated topics\n\nVitamin topics\n\n"}
{"id": "13652095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13652095", "title": "Michael Arroyo", "text": "Michael Arroyo\n\nMichael Antonio Arroyo Mina (; born 23 April 1987) was an Ecuadorian footballer who plays for Barcelona SC of the Ecuadorian Serie A, and the Ecuadorian national team as an attacking midfielder.\n\nMichael Arroyo started his career in the youth ranks of Emelec. He was seen as a very talented player for his age, and played 73 times for Emelec. However, in September 2007, he tested positive for marijuana shortly after a league match with Deportivo Cuenca, and was banned for two years from football.\n\nHe moved to the nation's capital in January 2009 to play for Deportivo Quito. He made his debut three months later in a game against Liga de Portoviejo, scoring a brace in a 2–0 home win. Arroyo scored his next goal with Deportivo on 20 May in a 2–0 home win over Deportivo Cuenca. Next he scored against Manta. His fourth goal of the season came against Tecnico Universitario. A week later he scored in a 2–0 away win against Olmedo. On 26 July, Arroyo scored the winning goal against his old club, Emelec. He scored against Macara on 18 October, in a 1–0 win. He won the 2009 Ecuadorian Serie A league against Deportivo Cuenca in a 3–2 comeback, scoring two goals, one which was the winning goal at the 87th minute, thus winning his first career title. Arroyo scored 10 goals in 17 league games played.\n\nArroyo began his 2010 season in a 1–1 away draw against Emelec. He scored his first goal on 28 March in a 1–1 away win against Universidad Catolica. On 5 April, he scored his second, in a 2–0 home win over Macara. His third goal came against Olmedo, in a 2–0 away win on 17 April. On 25 May, Michael scored his fourth and final goal of the season with Deportivo Quito, winning 2–1 away against Macara. After impressive displays in the Serie A, he signed for San Luis in Mexico.\n\nOn 28 May, Arroyo was transferred to San Luis of the Primera División de México after impressing them with his ability on the ball and powerful long-shot goals. His debut came on 24 July, in a 1–1 draw against Monterrey. He scored goals against Tecos UAG, Querétaro, Necaxa, and Toluca in the Apertura tournament. In the next season he would go on to score goals against Guadalajara, Monarcas Morelia, Atlas and Pachuca. In his Copa Libertadores participation with the Mexican club in 2011, he scored two goals against a Peruvian club, the first one a volley goal from 25 yards; he also assisted the first goal in a 3–1 home victory for San Luis.\n\nOn 30 November 2011, Arroyo was transferred to Atlante. He scored a free-kick goal against his old club San Luis, which he chose not to celebrate. He also scored three more goals that season against Guadalajara, UAG and Jaguares de Chiapas. His last game with Atlante was a 0–3 loss against Monterrey. In the summer of 2012, he was loaned out to Barcelona SC in Ecuador, even though he had played for city rivals Emelec for many years.\n\nHis debut came in a 2–1 win over his youth career club, Emelec, winning Ecuador's Clasico. Arroyo's first goal for Barcelona came on 19 September, in a 4–3 win over Chilean side Cobreloa, scoring two long range goals. His first two league goals for Barcelona came on 30 September, against Jose Teran, in a 2–2 draw. On 4 November, Arroyo scored a goal from the penalty spot in a 5–0 home win against Emelec. On 28 November, Arroyo became 2012 Serie A champion with Barcelona SC, after nearly fourteen years since Barcelona last won the league title.\n\nFor the 2013 Ecuadorian Serie A season, Arroyo was handed the jersey number 7. His first match of the season came on 26 January, in a 1–1 away draw against Deportivo Quevedo. On 16 February, Arroyo was given a red card for punching an opponent in the face. On 27 February, he scored his first goal the season, from the penalty spot, already losing to Boca Juniors 2–0, to make it 2–1. Nearly a month later he scored his first league goal of the season in a 4–0 home win over Deportivo Cuenca. On 21 April, Arroyo was given two immediate yellow cards by the referee. He was later also given a three-match ban and missed the matches against Emelec, LDU Quito, and Deportivo Cuenca. On his return, Arroyo scored a free-kick goal with Barcelona defeating Universidad Catolica 6–2.\n\nOn 13 July, he scored the lone goal in a 3–1 loss to Universidad Catolica. A week later he scored in the 3–3 draw against Deportivo Cuenca. On 21 July, Arroyo scored a double to tie against LDU Quito. On 15 September, Arroyo scored against Deportivo Quito, winning 2–1. Four days later Arroyo scored against Independiente del Valle, drawing 1–1. On 22 September, Michael scored the second in the 2–1 home win over Deportivo Quito.\n\nIn 2014, Arroyo returned to Atlante. On 10 March, Arroyo scored four goals against Querétaro, winning the match 4–2. He finished the Clausura tournament scoring eight goals in sixteen matches played.\n\nOn 15 July 2014, it was announced that Arroyo would be joining league giants América on loan. Arroyo scored his first Liga MX goal of the season on October 2, defeating Veracruz 2–0. On December 14, for the final championship title against Tigres UANL, Arroyo scored the first goal of the second–leg final match, defeating Tigres 3–0, and won the Apertura 2014 championship title, Arroyo's first title in Mexico. He was also voted as the Final Match MVP by Liga MX officials. Arroyo has had a roller coaster of sorts with Club America.\n\nHe's been a fan favorite due to his flashy skills and clutch free kicks, however due to his tactical indiscipline he has been unable to make himself an undisputed starter throughout the Turco era, Matosas era, Nacho era or the Lavolpe era. Arroyo was not on the transfer list following the 2016 FIFA Club World Cup however he's been having to fight for a match day spot due to the 10 foreigner/8 national rule Liga MX has implemented.\n\nA surprise move to the Brazilian club Grêmio signing a 3-year contract that's expires in 2019.\n\nArroyo played for the Ecuador U-20 side in the South American Youth Championship 2007. He scored a goal in Ecuador's 3–1 win against Venezuela. On May 8, 2010 Arroyo received his first call up to the national team and started and played 90 minutes against Mexico, being named man of the match before being subbed out.\nHe scored his first goal for the major Ecuador national football team on May 28, 2011 against Mexico. The match finished 1–1. Arroyo scored an impressive long-range shot against England coming in as a 2nd half substitute for Jefferson Montero. In the 2014 FIFA World Cup against Switzerland at 3:12 of added time he had an open shot on goal to seal a win for Ecuador and chose to stop and control the ball giving defenders time to close and block his shot. On the immediate counterattack Switzerland scored a goal sealing a win and 3 points. He did not play the next World Cup game for Ecuador.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38966691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38966691", "title": "Mikel Ruffinelli", "text": "Mikel Ruffinelli\n\nMikel Ruffinelli (born 1972) is an American woman who currently holds the record of widest hip in the world, according to the World Record Academy. Her weight is more than and her hips measures an unusual in circumference, although her waist is only . She is 5 feet 4 inches tall.\n\nMikel was a normal-sized young woman and in her early 20s weighed an above average .\nBut at 22, she put on after having first child Andrew. After daughters Destynee, Autumn, and Justyce followed, her weight and hips ballooned further.\n\nShe eats an average 5,000 calories a day.\n\nPossibly this extraordinary fat tissue accumulation turns out to be an advanced stage of a medical condition called lipedema.\n\n"}
{"id": "50645873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50645873", "title": "Millan Committee", "text": "Millan Committee\n\nThe Millan Committee was established in 1999 by the Scottish Parliament to review the law on mental health in Scotland. Bruce Millan was the chair of the committee. It reported in 2001.\n\nIts report was the basis of the Mental Health (Care and Treatment) (Scotland) Act 2003.\n"}
{"id": "22028425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22028425", "title": "Mosquito laser", "text": "Mosquito laser\n\nThe mosquito laser is a device invented by astrophysicist Lowell Wood to kill large numbers of mosquitoes to reduce malaria infection rates. Although originally introduced in the early 1980s, the idea was not substantially researched until decades later. In 2007, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation requested Intellectual Ventures LLC to find a way to fight and eventually end malaria. Intellectual Ventures resurrected the idea of using lasers to kill mosquitoes and now has a working prototype. The idea has been criticized because most areas where malaria is prevalent do not have reliable electrical power.\n\nAt a brainstorming session in 2007, to think of solutions for malaria, Wood, one of the architects of the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), also known as “Star Wars,” suggested designing a system to kill mosquitoes with lasers. Soon after, the idea was followed up by many scientists at Intellectual Ventures and mosquitoes were being shot down within a year.\n\nThe original idea incorporates laser technology that stems from the SDI, scaled down to insects. Although the malaria-carrying parasite is gone from most developed nations, it is getting worse in undeveloped countries, and it is also becoming more resistant to drugs. Rather than continue with drugs or other pesticides, the mosquito laser takes a more direct approach by instantly killing mosquitoes or burning off their wings and rendering them harmless. One of the design goals was to minimize collateral damage to other species and the environment.\n\nThe laser, humorously referred to by some as a WMD (Weapon of Mosquito Destruction), works effectively at a range of 100 feet (approx. 30 meters). Although the team at Intellectual Ventures is confident in the effectiveness of the laser, they do not expect it to eliminate malaria altogether. They believe several technologies must be combined for maximum eradication and minimal cost.\n\nThe team includes several scientists that previously worked at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. Wood worked with Edward Teller, the father of the hydrogen bomb, and architect of the SDI anti-missile laser program. Currently there are several scientists involved with the project, including scientist Jordin Kare, PhD, and principal investigator Eric Johanson. These scientists’ knowledge spans several fields; the scientists include engineers, an insect physiologist, an optical specialist, a computational modeling scientist, and an epidemiologist.\n\nSeveral concepts were explored, considering cost and efficiency. Devised implementations included a hand-held model, flying drones, and the current prototype, the Photonic Fence. As of early 2008, Intellectual Venture's prototype consisted of a hand-held laser, capable of shooting down mosquitoes in limited numbers. The Intellectual Ventures scientists once suggested attaching a mosquito laser system to a small flying drone so that it could patrol the air. The current prototype idea being pursued is a perimeter based implementation known as the Photonic Fence.\n\nOn March 3, 2015, Lighting Science Group and Global Good announced a research agreement to collaborate. The joint development effort will focus on field-ready prototypes.\n\nThe device works by using infra-red light-emitting diode (LED) lamps on a fence post to create a field of light. This field of light reflects from retroreflective material on another fence post, much like that used on roads and highway signs, and bounces back to its source. This field of light is monitored by charge-coupled devices (CCDs) similar to the ones used in consumer digital cameras. These cameras are situated on both fence posts and detect shadows in the light between the posts. Once an insect is detected, a non-lethal laser is fired at it. This non-lethal laser is used to determine the size of the insect, and the frequency at which its wings are beating.\n\nThe information gathered by the non-lethal laser can be used to determine the type of insect, and even its gender because wing beat patterns are unique to each species and gender. This is important in preventing malaria because only female mosquitoes bite humans. Also, only mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles carry the malaria-causing parasite of the genus plasmodium. All of these determining calculations are done using a custom image processing board using software written specifically for this application. Once the software confirms that the insect is of the targeted species and gender, a safety check makes sure that nothing is in the way of the laser and the mosquito. Once this safety check is completed, the lethal laser is given permission to shoot.\n\nThe lethal laser could be one of several low-power consumer lasers, but blue lasers, similar to the ones found in Blu-ray players, are thought to have great potential. Blue lasers are preferable as higher powered ones, they are more available than red, and cheaper - due to them being used in the Blu-ray industry. The lethal laser is fired at the mosquito and is able to kill it mid-flight, either by overheating it or, possibly, by damaging its DNA. In a video published by Intellectual Ventures, the mosquito's wings appear to wither, shrivel up and the body drops to the floor, often motionless. Jordin Kare has published instructions on how to build a DIY photonic fence. Eric Johanson published information about the history of the device and how the system works in Make Magazine Issue 23.\n\nThe Photonic Fence is thought to be best deployed surrounding buildings, such as hospitals and schools, or even whole villages, in an effort to reduce the spread of malaria. According to Nathan Myhrvold, co-founder of Intellectual Ventures, the Photonic Fence can kill up to 50 to 100 mosquitoes a second, at a maximum range of approx. 30 m (100 ft).\n\nThe Photonic Fence can be manufactured from parts used in current generation consumer technology and is projected to be relatively low cost. Myhrvold believes it can be made for around $50 per unit; however, Intellectual Ventures does not intend to manufacture the units, but rather to come up with a final design. The prototype of the fence was built with parts bought on eBay. All three stages of the photonic fence can be made from this consumer technology. When the device is looking for mosquitoes that pass its field of vision, it uses basic infra-red LEDs, and light sensors from modern digital cameras. To target and kill the mosquitoes it uses similar laser technology found in optical devices such as DVD, or Blu-ray disc drives.\n\nThe collateral damage to the non-malaria-carrying insect population from the Photonic Fence is thought to be low. Since the system can rapidly determine its target by wing beat frequency, it can be set to target only the female mosquitoes, who are the carriers of malaria in certain species of mosquitoes. Furthermore, this distinction allows it to avoid species of insects which don't spread disease, such as bees. The risk for collateral damage is minimized because the prototype checks the target and the kill-laser is barely strong enough to destroy mosquito tissue. The laser, as a replacement for pesticides, does not cause widespread environmental damage that pesticides do.\n\nAlthough there has been positive public reaction, experts have expressed doubts as to the effectiveness of the Photonic Fence in the field. According to Bart Knols, a mosquito and malaria expert, the system would not work because of high cost and troubles with electrical power in Africa (though there are reported plans to bundle it with a solar energy collector and battery). The Photonic Fence has only been used in a lab setting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31047767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31047767", "title": "Pagpag", "text": "Pagpag\n\nPagpag is a Tagalog term for leftover food from restaurants (usually from fast-food restaurants) scavenged from garbage sites and dumps. Pagpag food can also be expired frozen meat, fish, or vegetables discarded by supermarkets and scavenged in garbage trucks where those expired foods are collected. The word in the Tagalog language literally means \"to shake off the dust or dirt\", and refers to the act of shaking the dirt off of the edible portion of the leftovers. Pagpag can be either eaten immediately after it was found in the trash or cooked in variety of ways after collecting it.\n\nThe act of eating pagpag arose from the practical challenges of hunger that resulted from extreme poverty in the Philippines. Selling pagpag has been a profitable business in areas where poor people live. Pagpag is also called batchoy, which is derived from the Filipino dish with the same name. Technically, batchoy is soup-based though the term batchoy that is used to refer to leftover food from trash may be a meal cooked differently like fried pagpag batchoy. Persons who scavenge leftover food from garbage are called \"mambabatchoy\".\n\nAfter dirt and inedible substances are removed, pagpag can be eaten on site where it is found. It can also be processed further, most commonly by frying it in hot oil depending on the condition of the food. Filipino politician and former actor Isko Moreno used to scavenge leftover food and calling it pagpag batsoy after frying it. Small cottage industries have arisen around pagpag with impoverished people making a living scavenging, collecting, processing, and selling the processed pagpag to other financially challenged people. A cook in a restaurant in Tondo, Manila prepares pagpag in traditional Filipino cooking, such as pagpag à la kaldereta or adobo, with the mixture of the leftover chicken from Jollibee and KFC as the main ingredient.\n\nHealth risks include ingestion of poisons, toxins, and food-borne illnesses. The National Anti-Poverty Commission warns against eating pagpag because of the threat of malnutrition and diseases such as Hepatitis A, typhoid, diarrhea, and cholera. Despite these, a vendor of pagpag claims that no one has died eating the pagpag he sells. Likewise, there are persons who do not get sick out of eating pagpag due to overproduction of antibodies in their immune system, although there have been children who became ill from consuming pagpag.\n\nHunger has been linked to the spread of pagpag food and the food crisis in 2008 was said to be the cause in the rise of poverty in the Philippines. The National Statistical Coordination Board recommended the administration of Philippine President Benigno Aquino III to reduce poverty. Department of Social Welfare and Development Secretary Dinky Soliman said that the government has been addressing the issue and helping the poor through feeding programs and conditional cash transfers. In 2015, a survey conducted by the Social Weather Stations revealed that incidence of hunger in the Philippines was reduced but the Trade Union Congress of the Philippines-Nagkaisa attributed the decrease of hunger to the rapid spreading of pagpag.\n\nZero waste management is seen as a viable solution in stopping the proliferation of pagpag food.\n\nExtreme hunger in the Philippines that features pagpag has been covered in various television documentaries. In 2003, the episode entitled \"Basurero\" (garbage collector) of the documentary show \"I-Witness\" of GMA Network tells a story of poor people collecting leftovers from the trash of fast food restaurants. In the said episode, those people who scavenged for food in trash are called \"magbabatchoy\", which was derived from the word batchoy, a popular Filipino dish. As shown in ABS-CBN in 2006, \"Probe\", another documentary show, features pagpag and mentions health risks of eating pagpag.\n\nAfter CNN reported about pagpag in 2012, the reality about problems of hunger in the Philippines was brought to the world's attention. The \"Daily Mail\" also featured an article about residents of Payatas preparing pagpag in celebration of Pope Francis's visit to the Philippines. In February 2018, BBC News published a 3-minute long mini-documentary showing how pagpag is made, whereby the team followed a bag of meat from the rubbish dump to the dinner table.\n\nIn common use, pagpag means the act of shaking off dust or dirt. Pagpag is also a Filipino term for a superstition saying one can never go directly to one's home after attending a funeral unless they have done the pagpag. This practice is observed to avoid the following of the dead's soul to the home of the visitor of the wake.\n"}
{"id": "2241862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2241862", "title": "Pharmaceutical glaze", "text": "Pharmaceutical glaze\n\nPharmaceutical glaze is an alcohol-based solution of various types of food-grade shellac. The shellac is derived from the raw material sticklac, which is a resin scraped from the branches of trees left from when the small insect, \"Kerria lacca\" (also known as \"Laccifer lacca\"), creates a hard, waterproof cocoon. When used in food and confections, it is also known as confectioner's glaze, resinous glaze, pure food glaze, natural glaze, or confectioner's resin.\n\nPharmaceutical glaze may contain 20–51% shellac in solution in ethyl alcohol (grain alcohol) that has not been denatured (denatured alcohol is poisonous), waxes, and titanium dioxide as an opacifying agent. Confectioner’s glaze used for candy contains roughly 35% shellac, while the remaining components are volatile organic compounds that evaporate after the glaze is applied.\n\nPharmaceutical glaze is used by the drug and nutritional supplement industry as a coating material for tablets and capsules. It serves to improve the product's appearance, extend shelf life and protect it from moisture, as well as provide a solid finishing film for pre-print coatings. It also serves to mask unpleasant odors and aid in the swallowing of the tablet.\n\nThe shellac coating is insoluble in stomach acid and may make the tablet difficult for the body to break down or assimilate. For this reason, it can also be used as an ingredient in time-released, sustained or delayed-action pills. The product is listed on the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) inactive ingredient list.\n\nShellac is labeled as GRAS (generally recognized as safe) by the US FDA and is used as glaze for several types of foods, including some fruit, coffee beans, chewing gum, and candy. Examples of candies containing shellac include candy corn, Hershey's Whoppers and Milk Duds, Nestlé's Raisinets and Goobers, Tootsie Roll Industries's Junior Mints and Sugar Babies, Jelly Belly's jelly beans and Mint Cremes, Russell Stover's jelly beans, and several candies by Godiva Chocolatier and Gertrude Hawk. M&M's do not contain shellac.\n\nA competing non-animal-based product is zein, a corn protein. It is preferred by some vegans because shellac production can kill many insects.\n"}
{"id": "2328179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328179", "title": "Robert Christison", "text": "Robert Christison\n\nSir Robert Christison, 1st Baronet, (18 July 1797 – 27 January 1882), was a Scottish toxicologist and physician who served as president of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh (1838–40 and 1846-8) and as president of the British Medical Association (1875). He was the first person to describe renal anaemia.\n\nChristison was born in Edinburgh, the son of Prof Alexander Christison FRSE (1753–1820). He was a twin, his elder brother (by a few minutes) being later Rev. Alexander Christison (1797–1874). He attended the Royal High School before studying Medicine at University of Edinburgh, graduating in 1819.\n\nHe then spent a short time in London, studying under John Abernethy and Sir William Lawrence, and in Paris, where he learnt analytical chemistry from Pierre Robiquet and toxicology from Mathieu Orfila. In 1822 he returned to Edinburgh as professor of medical jurisprudence, and set to work to organise the study of his subject on a sound basis. On poisons in particular he speedily became a high authority; his well-known treatise on them was published in 1829, and in the course of his inquiries he did not hesitate to try such daring experiments on himself as taking large doses of Calabar bean (Physostigmine). In 1827, he was appointed physician-in-ordinary to the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, a position he held until 1832. His attainments in medical jurisprudence and toxicology procured him the appointment, in 1829, of medical officer to the crown in Scotland, and from that time until 1866 he was called as a witness in many celebrated criminal cases.\n\nIn 1832, Christison gave up the chair of medical jurisprudence and accepted that of medicine and therapeutics, which he held until 1877; at the same time he became professor of clinical medicine, and continued in that capacity until 1855. At this time his address is listed as 3 Great Stuart Street on the Moray Estate, a very large Georgian townhouse in the west end of Edinburgh, a highly desirable area.\n\nAs Chairman of a Committee of the General Medical Council he was responsible for the compilation of the first \"Pharmacopoeia of Great Britain and Ireland\". In 1842 he published his \"Dispensatory\", a commentary on the Pharmacopoeia. By his laboratory research, by his writings, by his collections of botanical specimens, Professor Christison became recognised as a world authority on therapeutics, on the manufacture of drugs, and on their presentation to patients.\n\nHis fame as a toxicologist and medical jurist, together with his work on the pathology of the kidneys and on fevers, secured him a large private practice, and he succeeded to a fair share of the honors that commonly attend the successful physician, being appointed physician to Queen Victoria in 1848 and receiving a baronetcy in 1871. Among the books which he published were a treatise on \"Granular Degeneration of the Kidneys\" (1839), and a \"Commentary on the Pharmacopoeias of Great Britain\" (1842).\n\nChristison was a strong opposer of women in the field of medicine, a view in Edinburgh eventually undermined by his colleague, Patrick Heron Watson's admission of women students to his extra mural surgery classes. A further (still controversial) proposal was his creation of a system of Lethal injection (through the discovery of Physostigmine in 1846) for human execution, in place of hanging. For various reasons, although this seems to pre-date its introduction into American use by 40 years, the method never appealed to British sensibilities.\n\nChristison served as Vice President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh 1845–1868 and was its President from 1868 to 1873.\n\nSir Robert Christison, who retained remarkable physical vigour and activity until extreme old age, died at Edinburgh on 27 January 1882. He is buried in New Calton Cemetery in a family plot created by his father, Alexander Christison (who is buried in Greyfriars Kirkyard and only memorialised here), on one of the south-facing terraces.\n\nSir Robert Christison was unequivocally opposed to the notion of women studying medicine and qualifying as doctors and led the campaign against Sophia Jex-Blake and the Edinburgh Seven. He was an influential figure both within the University and in the wider civic life of Edinburgh; his opinion was held in high regard.\n\nWhen the Senatus met on 9 April 1870 to discuss the issue of Edith Pechey's right to a Hope Scholarship having come top of the class in the Chemistry exam, he made his opinions very clear.\n\nHe shared the view of many of his contemporaries that Nature intended women to be mothers and housekeepers, and lacked the intellectual ability and stamina of men. Consequently, if women were to enter any learned profession in significant numbers they would lower its standards.\n\nHis influence was largely responsible for the eventual decision taken by the University not to allow the women to graduate.\n\nJames Stansfeld, who had been very closely associated with the London campaign (following the failure of the Edinburgh campaign) wrote, in his brief history of the events, in 1877:\n\n″Dr Sophia Jex-Blake has made the greatest of all contributions to the end attained. I do not say that she has been the ultimate cause of success. The ultimate cause has been simply this, that the time was at hand. It is one of the lessons of the history of progress that when the time for reform has come you cannot resist it, though if you make the attempt, what you may do is to widen its character or precipitate its advent. Opponents, when the time has come, are not merely dragged at the chariot wheels of progress - they help to turn them. The strongest forces, whichever way it seems to work, does most to aid. The forces of greatest concentration here have been, in my view, on the one hand the Edinburgh University led by Sir Robert Christison, on the other the women claimants led by Dr Sophia Jex-Blake.″\n\nChristison's wife was Henrietta Sophia Brown (1799–1843).\n\nTheir children included Sir Alexander Christison, baronet and Dr David Christison MD LLD (1830-1912).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21929114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21929114", "title": "SENSOR-Pesticides", "text": "SENSOR-Pesticides\n\nSentinel Event Notification System for Occupational Risks (SENSOR)-Pesticides is a U.S. state-based surveillance program that monitors pesticide-related illness and injury. It is administered by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), twelve state health agencies participate. NIOSH provides technical support to all participating states. It also provides funding to some states, in conjunction with the US Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA).\n\nPesticide-related illness is a significant occupational health issue, but it is believed to be underreported. Because of this, NIOSH proposed the SENSOR program to track pesticide poisonings. Because workers in many industries are at risk for pesticide exposure, and public concern exists regarding the use of and exposure to pesticides, government and regulatory authorities experience pressure to monitor health effects associated with them. SENSOR-Pesticides state partners collect case data from several different sources using a standard case definition and set of variables. This information is then forwarded to the program headquarters at NIOSH where it is compiled and put into a national database.\n\nResearchers and government officials from the SENSOR-Pesticides program have published research articles that highlight findings from the data and their implications for environmental and occupational pesticide issues. These issues include eradication of invasive species, pesticide poisoning in schools, birth defects, and residential use of total release foggers, or \"bug bombs,\" which are devices that release an insecticide mist.\n\nAlthough it is a significant occupational health issue, work-related pesticide poisoning is believed to be underreported. Before the SENSOR program began, state programs that collected reports of occupational diseases did not usually conduct interventions. While over 25 states required reporting of pesticide-related illness, most of them could not compile useful information on incidence or prevalence. In response to these challenges, NIOSH proposed the SENSOR program as a model to track certain occupational conditions, including pesticides.\nPesticide poisoning is an important occupational health issue because pesticides are used in a large number of industries, which puts many different categories of workers at risk. From 1995 to 2001, use in agriculture accounted for at least 70% of conventional pesticide use in the U.S., and the US EPA estimates that the agricultural sector has had a similar market share of pesticides since 1979. Pesticides are particularly useful in agriculture because they increase crop yields and reduce the need for manual labor. However, this extensive use puts agricultural workers at increased risk for pesticide illnesses. \n\nWorkers in other industries are at risk for exposure as well. For example, commercial availability of pesticides in stores puts retail workers at risk for exposure and illness when they handle pesticide products. The ubiquity of pesticides puts emergency responders such as fire-fighters and police officers at risk, because they are often the first responders to emergency events and may be unaware of the presence of a poisoning hazard. The process of aircraft disinsection, in which pesticides are used on inbound international flights for insect and disease control, can also make flight attendants sick.\n\nThe widespread use of pesticides, their release into the environment, and the potential for adverse public health effects due to exposure may raise public concern. Some feel that regulatory authorities have an ethical obligation to track the health effects of such chemicals. In the \"Handbook of Pesticide Toxicology\", Calvert \"et al.\" write \"[b]ecause society allows pesticides to be disseminated into the environment, society also incurs the obligation to track the health effects of pesticides.\" Jay Vroom, president of CropLife America, said in a press release that \"...our industry has a moral and ethical obligation...to know how these products impact humans.\" Surveillance of pesticide-related injuries and illnesses is recommended by the American Medical Association, the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE), the Pew Environmental Health Commission, and the Government Accountability Office.\n\nBeginning in 1987, NIOSH supported the implementation of the Sentinel Event Notification System for Occupational Risks (SENSOR) program in ten state health departments. The objectives of the program were to help state health departments develop and refine reporting systems for certain occupational disorders so that they could conduct and evaluate interventions and prevention efforts. The disorders covered by SENSOR included silicosis, occupational asthma, carpal tunnel syndrome, lead poisoning, and pesticide poisoning. While each participating state health department had previously done surveillance or interventions for some of these occupational illnesses, SENSOR helped the states to develop and refine their reporting systems and programs.\n\nThe original SENSOR-Pesticides model was based on physician reporting. Each state contacted a select group of sentinel health care professionals on a regular basis to collect information. However, this system was labor-intensive and did not yield many cases. Because different states used different methods for collecting information, their data could not be compiled or compared to analyze for trends. In response, NIOSH, along with other federal agencies (US EPA, National Center for Environmental Health), non-federal agencies (CSTE, Association of Occupational and Environmental Clinics), and state health departments, developed a standard case definition and a set of standardized variables. As of 2013, SENSOR-Pesticides had 12 participating states contributing occupational pesticide-related injury and illness data: California, Florida, Iowa, Louisiana, Michigan, New York, North Carolina, and Washington received federal funding to support surveillance activities, while Nebraska, New Mexico, Oregon, and Texas were unfunded SENSOR-Pesticides program partners.\n\nA case of pesticide-related illness or injury is characterized by an acute onset of symptoms that are temporally related to a pesticide exposure. Cases are classified as occupational if exposure occurs at work, unless the case was a suicide or an attempted suicide.\n\nCases are reportable when:\nState public health officials rate each case as definite, probable, possible or suspicious. Illness severity is assigned as low, moderate, severe, or fatal.\n\nAll states in the program require physicians to report pesticide-related injuries and illnesses; however, most states collect the majority of their data from workers’ compensation claims, poison control centers, and state agencies with jurisdiction over pesticide use, such as state departments of agriculture. When they receive a report, health department officials review the information to determine whether it was pesticide related. If it was, they request medical records and try to interview the patient (or a proxy) and anyone else involved in the incident (e.g. supervisors, applicators, and witnesses). The data is compiled each year and put into a national database.\n\nIn addition to identifying, classifying, and tabulating pesticide poisoning cases, the states periodically investigate pesticide-related events and develop interventions aimed at particular industries or pesticide hazards.\n\nFederal and state-level scientists and researchers with SENSOR-Pesticides have published articles on pesticide exposure events and trends using program data. These articles include MMWR publications and articles in peer-reviewed journals on exposures such as acute pesticide-related illness in youth, agricultural workers, retail workers, migrant farm workers, and flight attendants. Several articles have attracted media attention and motivated legislative or other governmental action.\n\nIn response to a Mediterranean fruit fly (also known as “Medfly”) outbreak, officials from the Florida Department of Agriculture sprayed pesticides (primarily malathion) and bait over five counties during the spring and summer of 1998. Scientists from the University of Florida’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences stated that malathion was being sprayed in a manner that did not pose a significant risk to public health. During the eradication effort, the Florida Department of Health investigated 230 cases of illness that were attributed to the pesticide. Officials from the Florida Department of Health and the SENSOR-Pesticides program published an article in Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) that described these case reports and recommended alternative methods for Medfly control, including exclusion activities at ports of entry to prevent importation, more rapid detection through increased sentinel trapping densities, and the release of sterile male flies to interrupt the reproductive cycle. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) incorporated these suggestions into their 2001 Environmental Impact Statement on the Fruit Fly Cooperative Control Program. These impact statements guide the USDA's development of insect control strategies and decisions.\n\nResearchers from the SENSOR-Pesticides program published an article in 2005 in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) on pesticide poisoning in schools. The article, which included data collected by SENSOR, described illnesses in students and school employees associated with pesticide exposures. The study found that rates of pesticide-related illnesses in children rose significantly from 1998 to 2002 and called for a reduction in pesticide use to prevent pesticide-related illness on or near school grounds. The article generated media coverage and drew attention to pesticide safety in schools and to safer alternatives to pesticides through integrated pest management (IPM). \"[T]he study does provide evidence that using pesticides at schools is not innocuous and that there are better ways to use pesticides,\" said study co-author Dr. Geoffrey Calvert. Officials in organizations supporting the pesticide industry, such as CropLife America and RISE (Responsible Industry for a Sound Environment, a trade association representing pesticide manufacturers and suppliers), reacted strongly to the report, calling it “alarmist” and “incomplete” in its health reporting. CropLife America president Jay Vroom claimed that the report was “written without context about the proper use of pesticides in schools and [did] not mention the positive public health protections they provide\" and stated that pesticide use in schools is \"well regulated\" and can be managed so that the risk is low. RISE president Allen James faulted the article for relying on unverified reports and said that evidence suggested that such incidents were extremely rare. The increased awareness of pesticide use in schools influenced parents and other stakeholders in numerous states to call for the adoption of integrated pest management programs. According to the National Pest Management Association, three more states passed IPM rules or laws between October 2005 and October 2008.\n\nIn February 2005, three infants were born with birth defects to migrant farmworkers within eight weeks of each other in Collier County, Florida. Because one of the mothers had worked in North Carolina and the other two worked in Florida, neither state's health department attributed the cluster to pesticide exposure at first. However, when they presented their findings at the annual SENSOR-Pesticides workshop in 2006, they realized that all three mothers worked for the same tomato grower during the period of organogenesis while pregnant, and that they may have been exposed to pesticides. The state health departments reported the cluster to their respective state agricultural departments. The Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services inspected the grower's farms in Florida and fined the company $111,200 for violations they discovered; the North Carolina Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services conducted a similar inspection of farms in North Carolina and fined the company $184,500. After the investigation, North Carolina Governor Mike Easley assembled the “Governor’s Task Force on Preventing Agricultural Pesticide Exposure.” It presented its findings in April 2008, which caused the state legislature to pass anti-retaliation and recordkeeping laws, training mandates to protect the health of agricultural workers, and funding for improved surveillance. In Florida, the state legislature added ten new pesticide inspectors to the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services.\n\nTotal release foggers (TRFs), or \"bug bombs,\" release a fog of insecticide to kill bugs in a room and coat surfaces with a chemical so the insects do not return. It is estimated that 50 million TRFs are used in the US annually. SENSOR-Pesticides federal and state staff, along with officials from the California Department of Pesticide Regulation (CDPR), published an article in the CDC MMWR that called attention to injuries and illnesses resulting from use of total release foggers. The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) published a press release in response, stating that the state would restrict their use. DEC Commissioner Pete Granis announced that the department would move to classify foggers as a restricted-use product in New York State, meaning that only certified pesticide applicators would be able to obtain them. In March 2010, US EPA announced required label changes on indoor TRF products that reflect the label change recommendations made in the MMWR article.\n\n"}
{"id": "3030329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3030329", "title": "SLITRK1 (gene)", "text": "SLITRK1 (gene)\n\nSLITRK1 (\"SLIT and NTRK-like family, member 1\") is a human gene that codes for a transmembrane and signalling protein that is part of the SLITRK gene family, which is responsible for synapse regulation and presynaptic differentiation in the brain. Expression of the gene has been linked to early formation of excitatory synapses through binding with receptor tyrosine phosphatase PTP (LAR-RPTP). Various studies over the years have linked mutations in the gene to conditions on the OCD spectrum, Tourette syndrome and trichotillomania, however the mutations in the genome itself vary greatly between individuals, with most mutations observed being hard to find in repeat studies.\n\nThe gene for SLITRK1 is located on chromosome 13q31.1. The gene is expressed only in the brain of humans. The mRNA can differ from alternative splicing, and contains domains for the extracellular matrix as well as for the LRRs. Mice contain an ortholog of the gene called Slitrk1.\n\nSLITRK1 contains 2 horseshoe shaped leucine rich repeat domains (LRRs) in its extracellular domain which are vital to its function. The LRRs have 6 modules each and are connected by a 70-90 amino acid loops. LRR1 is a more conserved sequence and is present as a dimer while LRR2 is a monomer and has a more variable sequence. The conserved sequence of LRR1 contains critical binding pockets and specific charged residues that are important for it to carry out its function of binding to LAR-RPTPs on the N-terminus. Both LRR sequences are randomly positioned on the protein and contain variable linker regions. The protein also contains a short intracellular domain, but lacks a tyrosine phosphorylation motif which is present in other SLITRK genes.\n\nSLITKR1 is highly expressed in the central nervous system. It plays a critical part in regulating synapse formation between hippocampal neurons and in differentiation of synapses, helping in neuronal outgrowth. It is expressed during embryonic stages and postnatally but expression decreases over time and is localized to the postsynaptic membrane.\n\nOverexpression of SLITKR1 promotes postsynaptic differentiation for excitatory and inhibitory synapses, but because of the localization only excitatory synapses are affected. Inhibition of SLITKR1 only reduces differentiation of excitatory synapses because of this.\n\nSince they lack tyrosine phosphorylation motifs, SLITKR1 binds to LAR-RPTP through its LRR1 region in order to differentiate synapses. The LRR2 domain's function is not clearly understood yet but it is hypothesised that it is for dimerization to the cell surface.\n\nLAR-RPTP binds to the LRR1 region through its PTPδ Ig region, with 3 separate binding sites in a 1:1 binding ratio. Ig1 binds through electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions, Ig2 binds through ionic and hydrogen bonds, and Ig2 binds through hydrogen bonding. The unique properties on the concave surface are what determine which LAR-RPTP binds to it. If the proper LAR-RPTP is not bound to the LRR1 then synapse formation cannot occur, but bonding can still occur. Once they are bound properly, the complex is sufficient for synapse differentiation. Point mutations in the LRR1 region impaired differentiation as well but not binding.\n\nThe SLITRK1 gene \"is not a major risk gene for the majority of individuals\" with Tourette syndrome (TS), according to a 2009 review, although its study can help contribute to our understanding of TS. Rare variants in SLITRK1 may lead to TS, and mutations in non-coding regions of SLITRK1 may also play a part, but further research needs to be done before any conclusions can be drawn.\n\nIn 2005, medical researchers observed a \"de novo\" translocation on 13q in a patient with TS which broke the patient's chromosome near the SLITRK1 genome. In screening of additional patients, the authors observed a frameshift mutation in SLITRK1 in a patient with TS and the same rare non-coding variant (called var321 and varCDfs) in two patients with TS. These variants were not found in several thousand controls supporting an association of the variants with TS.\n\nA subsequent examination of the region of the SLITRK1 gene found the mutation in none of 82 patients with Tourette syndrome. The authors concluded that tests to detect variant(s) in the gene probably would have little diagnostic utility. An experiment in the effects of a microdeletion in chromosome 13q31.1 was done in a fetus, the mother had passed the microdeletion to the child and both did not have tourettes or any other OCD symptoms, showing that it may not be a direct cause of tourettes. Further attempts to replicate the study were done in multiple studies. In a Japanese study, next-gen sequencing was used to screen 92 TS patients and 361 healthy controls, none of TS patients were found to have mutations at either variant or any new mutations in the gene. In a European study it was found that the 2 original variations were not found in any of the 222 trios that were studied. However, tests were also done on SNPs in the groups and 3 were found to have variations. Two of the three variations were found to be associated with the formation of Tourette syndrome. In a different study of 381 Caucasians with some form of OCD with 356 non-OCD control patients, 3 genetic changes were found after genetic screening. Of the 3, 2 were identified only once each and the third was found in 4 OCD patients but also in a non-OCD patient. The non-OCD patient did have compulsive nail biting, but these studies show that a genetic link between SLITRK1 and patients with TS may exist they are more complex in nature than previously understood.\n\nThe SLITRK1 gene has also been implicated in a small percentage of cases of trichotillomania, an impulse disorder in which individuals compulsively pull their own hair. In one of the previously mentioned studies the mother of the child who had a \"de novo\" translocation on 13q had trichotillomania; this would suggest that there could be a genetic link between SLITRK1 and trichotillomania as well.\n\nA study was done in which 44 families with individuals who had trichotillomania had their SLITRK1 gene sequenced. Two new non-synonymous mutations were discovered about 9 base pairs apart from each other, in an area separate from the one where the Tourette mutations were found. These results were compared to a control and none had the mutation, suggesting that these mutations, while rare, were associated with trichotillomania.\n\n"}
{"id": "44471109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44471109", "title": "Safety of electronic cigarettes", "text": "Safety of electronic cigarettes\n\nThe safety of electronic cigarettes is uncertain. There is little data about their safety, and considerable variability among e-cigarettes and in their liquid ingredients and thus the contents of the aerosol delivered to the user. Reviews on the safety of e-cigarettes have reached significantly different conclusions. A 2014 World Health Organization (WHO) report cautioned about potential risks of using e-cigarettes. Regulated US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) products such as nicotine inhalers are likely safer than e-cigarettes. A systematic review suggests that e-cigarettes are less harmful than smoking but they still contain nicotine. Since they do not involve combustion, users may avoid several harmful constituents usually found in tobacco smoke. However, e-cigarettes cannot be considered harmless.\n\nReviews on the safety of e-cigarettes, evaluating roughly the same studies, have reached significantly different conclusions. Due to various methodological issues, severe conflicts of interest, and inconsistent research, no definite conclusions can be determined regarding the safety of e-cigarettes. However, e-cigarettes cannot be regarded as harmless. There is little data about their safety, and considerable variability among vaporizers and in their liquid ingredients and thus the contents of the aerosol delivered to the user. The health community, pharmaceutical industry, and other groups have raised concerns about the emerging phenomenon of e-cigarettes, including the unknown health risks from long-term use of e-cigarettes. Concern exists that the majority of smokers attempting to quit by vaping may stop smoking but maintain nicotine intake because their long-term effects are not clear. A policy statement by the American Association for Cancer Research and the American Society of Clinical Oncology has reported that \"The benefits and harms must be evaluated with respect to the population as a whole, taking into account the effect on youth, adults, nonsmokers, and smokers.\" A July 2014 World Health Organization (WHO) report cautioned about the potential risks to children and adolescents, pregnant women, and women of reproductive age regarding e-cigarette use. E-cigarettes have also been found to reduce lung and myocardial function, increase inflammation, and have toxic content including carcinogens, but to a much lower extent than combustible cigarettes in virtually all cases.\n\nThe cytotoxicity of e-liquids varies, and contamination with various chemicals have been detected in the liquid. Metal parts of e-cigarettes in contact with the e-liquid can contaminate it with metals. Many chemicals including carbonyl compounds such as formaldehyde can inadvertently be produced when the nichrome wire (heating element) that touches the e-liquid is heated and chemically reacted with the liquid. Normal usage of e-cigarettes, and reduced voltage (3.0 V) devices generate very low levels of formaldehyde. A 2015 review found that these levels were the result of overheating under test conditions that bear little resemblance to common usage. A 2015 Public Health England (PHE) report found that high levels of formaldehyde only occurred in overheated \"dry-puffing\". Users detect the \"dry puff\" or \"dry hit\" and avoid it, and they concluded that \"There is no indication that EC users are exposed to dangerous levels of aldehydes.\" However, e-cigarette users may \"learn\" to overcome the unpleasant taste due to elevated aldehyde formation, when the nicotine craving is high enough. E-cigarette users who use devices that contain nicotine are exposed to its potentially harmful effects. Nicotine is associated with cardiovascular disease, potential birth defects, and poisoning. \"In vitro\" studies of nicotine have associated it with cancer, but carcinogenicity has not been demonstrated \"in vivo\". There is inadequate research to demonstrate that nicotine is associated with cancer in humans. The risk is probably low from the inhalation of propylene glycol and glycerin. No information is available on the long-term effects of the inhalation of flavors.\n\nE-cigarettes create an aerosol that consists of fine and ultrafine particles of particulate matter, with the majority of particles in the ultrafine range. The vapor have been found to contain flavors, propylene glycol, glycerin, nicotine, tiny amounts of toxicants, carcinogens, heavy metals, and metal nanoparticles, and other substances. Exactly what the vapor comprises varies in composition and concentration across and within manufacturers. E-cigarette vapor potentially contains harmful substances not found in tobacco smoke. The majority of toxic chemicals found in tobacco smoke are absent in e-cigarette vapor. E-cigarette vapor contains lower concentrations of potentially toxic chemicals than with cigarette smoke. Those which are present, are mostly below 1% the corresponding levels permissible by workplace safety standards. But workplace safety standards do not recognize exposure to certain vulnerable groups such as people with medical ailments, children, and infants who may be exposed to second-hand vapor. Concern exists that some of the mainstream vapor exhaled by e-cigarette users may be inhaled by bystanders, particularly indoors. E-cigarette use by a parent might lead to inadvertent health risks to offspring. A 2014 review recommended that e-cigarettes should be regulated for consumer safety. There is limited information available on the environmental issues around production, use, and disposal of e-cigarettes that use cartridges.\n\nIt is recommended the precautionary principle be used for e-cigarettes because of the long history of the tobacco crisis, in order to assess their benefits and long-term effects and to avoid another nicotine crisis. A 2014 review recommended that e-cigarettes could be adequately regulated for consumer safety with existing regulations on the design of electronic products. Regulation of the production and promotion of e-cigarettes may help lower some adverse effects associated with tobacco use. The entrance of large US tobacco manufacturers, which are Altria Group, Reynolds American, and Lorillard, into the e-cigarette sector raises many potential public health issues. Instead of encouraging quitting, the tobacco industry could market e-cigarettes as a way to get around clean indoor air laws, which promotes dual use. The industry could also lead vapers to tobacco products, which would increase instead of decrease overall addiction.\n\nThe health effects on intensive e-cigarette users are unknown. The effect on population health from e-cigarettes is unknown. Smokefree.gov, a website run by the Tobacco Control Research Branch of the National Cancer Institute to provide information to help quit smoking, stated that \"Since e-cigs aren’t regulated yet, there’s no way of knowing how much nicotine is in them or what other chemicals they contain. These two things make the safety of e-cigs unclear.\" The English National Health Service has stated, \"While e-cigarettes may be safer than conventional cigarettes, we don’t yet know the long-term effects of vaping on the body.\" The American Diabetes Association states \"There is no evidence that e-cigarettes are a healthier alternative to smoking.\" In August 2014, the Forum of International Respiratory Societies stated that e-cigarettes have not been demonstrated to be safe. Health Canada has stated that, \"their safety, quality, and efficacy remain unknown.\" The National Institute on Drug Abuse stated that \"There are currently no accepted measures to confirm their purity or safety, and the long-term health consequence of e-cigarette use remain unknown.\"\n\nA 2015 Public Health England (PHE) report stated that e-cigarettes are estimated to be 95% less harmful than smoking, although this estimate has been disputed. In June 2014, the Royal College of Physicians stated that, \"On the basis of available evidence, the RCP believes that e-cigarettes could lead to significant falls in the prevalence of smoking in the UK, prevent many deaths and episodes of serious illness, and help to reduce the social inequalities in health that tobacco smoking currently exacerbates.\" A 2014 systematic review suggests that e-cigarettes are less harmful than smoking because there is no tobacco, no combustion, and users may avoid several harmful constituents usually found in tobacco smoke. A 2014 review found that e-cigarette aerosol contains far fewer carcinogens than tobacco smoke, and concluded that e-cigarettes \"impart a lower potential disease burden\" than traditional cigarettes. A 2015 study found serious adverse events related to e-cigarettes were hypotension, seizure, chest pain, rapid heartbeat, disorientation, and congestive heart failure but it was unclear to the degree they were the result of e-cigarettes. Less serious adverse effects may include abdominal pain, headache, blurry vision, throat and mouth irritation, vomiting, nausea, and coughing. A 2014 WHO report said \"ENDS [electronic nicotine delivery system] use poses serious threats to adolescents and fetuses.\" Scientific studies advocate caution before designating e-cigarettes as beneficial but vapers continue to believe they are beneficial.\n\nThe American Cancer Society has stated, \"The makers of e-cigarettes say that the ingredients are \"safe,\" but this only means the ingredients have been found to be safe to eat. Inhaling a substance is not the same as swallowing it. There are questions about how safe it is to inhale some substances in the e-cigarette vapor into the lungs.\" The Canadian Cancer Society has stated that, \"A few studies have shown that there may be low levels of harmful substances in some e-cigarettes, even if they don’t have nicotine.\" Since 2009, the FDA has pointed out that e-cigarettes contain “detectable levels of known carcinogens and toxic chemicals to which users could be exposed.” In the UK a National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guideline did not recommend e-cigarettes as there are questions regarding the safety, efficacy, and quality of these products. The US National Association of County and City Health Officials has stated, \"Public health experts have expressed concern that e-cigarettes may increase nicotine addiction and tobacco use in young people.\" No long-term studies have evaluated future tobacco use as a result of e-cigarette use. E-cigarette vapor potentially contains harmful substances not found in tobacco smoke.\n\n, the short-term and long-term effects from using e-cigarettes remain unclear. Adverse effects are mostly associated with short-term use and the reported adverse effects decreased over time. Long-term studies regarding the effects of constant use of e-cigarettes are unavailable. The adverse effects of e-cigarettes on people with cancer is unknown. A 2014 Cochrane review found no serious adverse effects reported in trials, but serious events have been reported in case studies.\n\nThe evidence suggests they produce less harmful effects than combusted tobacco. The most frequently reported less harmful effects of vaping compared to smoking were reduced shortness of breath, reduced cough, reduced spitting, and reduced sore throat. Many health benefits are associated with switching from tobacco to e-cigarettes including decreased weight gain after smoking cessation and improved exercise tolerance. Vaping is possibly harmful by virtue of putting off quitting smoking, serving as a gateway to tobacco use in never-smokers or causing a return to smoking in former smokers. </ref> Quitting smoking entirely would probably have much greater beneficial effects to overall health than vaping to decrease the number of cigarettes smoked.\n\nMore serious adverse effects frequently related with smoking cessation including depression, insomnia, and anxiety are uncommon with e-cigarette use. A 2015 study found serious adverse events related to e-cigarettes were hypotension, seizure, chest pain, rapid heartbeat, disorientation, and congestive heart failure but it was unclear to the degree they were the result of e-cigarettes. Less serious adverse effects include abdominal pain, headache, blurry vision, throat and mouth irritation, vomiting, nausea, and coughing. Short-term adverse effects reported most often were mouth and throat irritation, dry cough, and nausea. The majority of adverse effects reported were nausea, vomiting, dizziness and oral irritation. Some case reports found harms to health brought about by e-cigarettes in many countries, such as the US and in Europe; the most common effect was dryness of the mouth and throat. Some e-cigarettes users experience adverse effects like throat irritation which could be the result of exposure to nicotine, nicotine solvents, or toxicants in the aerosol.\n\nThe US Food and Drug Administration Center for Tobacco Products reported between 2008 and the beginning of 2012, 47 cases of adverse effects associated with e-cigarettes, of which eight were considered serious. Two peer-reviewed reports of lipoid pneumonia were related to e-cigarette use, as well as two reports in the media in Spain and the UK. The man from the UK reportedly died from severe lipoid pneumonia in 2011. Reports to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for minor adverse effects identified with using e-cigarettes include headache, chest pain, nausea, and cough. Major adverse effects reported to the FDA included hospitalizations for pneumonia, congestive heart failure, seizure, rapid heart rate, and burns. However no direct relationship has been proven between these effects and e-cigarette use, and some of them may be due to existing health problems. Many of the observed negative effects from e-cigarette use concerning the nervous system and the sensory system are probably related to nicotine overdose or withdrawal. Since e-cigarettes are intended to be used repeatedly, they can conveniently be used for an extended period of time, which may contribute to increased adverse effects. E-cigarettes were associated with fewer adverse effects than nicotine patches.\n\nNicotine poisoning related to e-cigarettes include ingestion, inhalation, or absorption via the skin or eyes. Accidental poisoning can result from using undiluted concentrated nicotine when mistakenly used as prepared e-liquids. E-cigarettes involve accidental nicotine exposure in children. Accidental exposures in pediatric patients include ingesting of e-liquids and inhaling of e-cigarette vapors. Choking on e-cigarette components is a potential risk. It is recommended that youth access to e-cigarettes be prohibited.\n\nFour adults died in the US and Europe, after intentionally ingesting liquid. Two children, one in the US in 2014 and another in Israel in 2013, died after ingesting liquid nicotine. Death from accidental nicotine poisoning is very uncommon.\n\nCalls to US poison control centers related to e-cigarette exposures involved inhalations, eye exposures, skin exposures, and ingestion, in both adults and young children. Minor, moderate, and serious adverse effects involved adults and young children. Minor effects correlated with e-cigarette liquid poisoning were tachycardia, tremor, chest pain and hypertension. More serious effects were bradycardia, hypotension, nausea, respiratory paralysis, atrial fibrillation and dyspnea. The exact correlation is not fully known between these effects and e-cigarettes. 58% of e-cigarette calls to US poison control centers were related to children 5 years old or less. E-cigarette calls had a greater chance to report an adverse effect and a greater chance to report a moderate or major adverse effect than traditional cigarette calls. Most of the e-cigarette and traditional cigarette calls were a minor effect. Severe outcomes were more than 2.5 times more frequent in children exposed to e-cigarettes and nicotine e-liquid than with traditional cigarettes. E-cigarette sales were roughly equivalent to just 3.5% of traditional cigarette sales, but of the total number of e-cigarette and traditional cigarette calls to US poison control centers in December 2014, the reported e-cigarettes calls were 44%.\nFrom September 1, 2010 to December 31, 2014, the most frequent adverse effects to e-cigarettes and e-liquid reported to US poison control centers were: Ingestion exposure resulted in vomiting, nausea, drowsy, tachycardia, or agitation; inhalation/nasal exposure resulted in nausea, vomiting, dizziness, agitated, or headache; ocular exposure resulted in eye irritation or pain, red eye or conjunctivitis, blurred vision, headache, or corneal abrasion; multiple routes of exposure resulted in eye irritation or pain, vomiting, red eye or conjunctivitis, nausea, or cough; and dermal exposure that resulted in nausea, dizziness, vomiting, headache, or tachycardia. The ten most frequent adverse effects to e-cigarettes and e-liquid reported to US poison control centers were vomiting (40.4%), eye irritation or pain (20.3%), nausea (16.8%), red eye or conjunctivitis (10.5%), dizziness (7.5%), tachycardia (7.1%), drowsiness (7.1%), agitation (6.3%), headache (4.8%), and cough (4.5%). In nine reported calls, exposed individuals stated the device leaked. In five reported calls, individuals used e-liquid for their eyes rather than use eye drops. In one reported call, an infant was given the e-liquid by an adult who thought it was the infant's medication. There were also reports of choking on e-cigarette components.\n\nFrom January 1, 2016 and April 30, 2016, the American Association of Poison Control Centers (AAPCC) reported 623 exposures related to e-cigarettes. The AAPCC reported 3,067 exposures relating to e-cigarettes and liquid nicotine in 2015, and 3,783 in 2014. From September 1, 2010 to December 31, 2014, there were at least 5,970 e-cigarette calls to US poison control centers. Calls to US poison control centers related to e-cigarettes increased between September 2010 to February 2014, and of the total number of cigarettes and e-cigarettes calls, e-cigarette calls increased from 0.3% to 41.7%. Calls to US poison controls centers related to e-cigarette liquid poisoning increased from 1 in September 2010 to 215 for the month of February 2014. E-cigarette calls was 401 for the month of April 2014. The California Poison Control System reported 35 cases of e-cigarette contact from 2010 to 2012, 14 were in children and 25 were from accidental contact.\n\nThere is a possibility that inhalation, ingestion, or skin contact can expose people to high levels of nicotine. Concerns with exposure to the e-liquids include leaks or spills and contact with contaminants in the e-liquid. This may be especially risky to children, pregnant women, and nursing mothers. The liquid quickly absorbs into the skin. The nicotine in e-liquid can be hazardous to infants. Even a portion of e-liquid may be lethal to a little child. An excessive amount of nicotine for a child that is capable of being fatal is 0.1–0.2 mg/kg of body weight. Less than a 1 tablespoon of contact or ingestion of e-liquid can cause nausea, vomiting, cardiac arrest, seizures, or coma. An accidental ingestion of only 6 mg may be lethal to children.\n\nChildren are susceptible to ingestion due to their curiosity and desire for oral exploration. E-cigarettes are packed in colorful containers and children may be attracted to the flavored liquids. More youth-oriented flavors include \"My Birthday Cake\" or \"Tutti Frutti Gumballs\". Many nicotine cartridges and bottles of liquid are not child-resistant to stop contact or accidental ingestion of nicotine by children. \"Open\" e-cigarette devices, with a refillable tank for e-liquids, are believed to be the biggest risk to young children. It is recommended that e-cigarettes be kept in a safe place, where children and pets do not have access to them.\n\nNicotine toxicity is of concern when e-cigarette solutions are swallowed intentionally by adults as a suicidal overdose. Six people attempted suicide by injecting e-liquid. One adolescent attempted suicide by swallowing the e-liquid. Three deaths were reported to have resulted from swallowing or injecting e-liquid containing nicotine. An excessive amount of nicotine for an adult that is capable of being fatal is 0.5–1 mg/kg of body weight. An oral lethal dose for adults is about 30–60 mg. However the widely used human LD estimate of around 0.8 mg/kg was questioned in a 2013 review, in light of several documented cases of humans surviving much higher doses; the 2013 review suggests that the lower limit resulting in fatal events is 500–1000 mg of ingested nicotine, which is equivalent to 6.5–13 mg/kg orally. Reports of serious adverse effects associated with acute nicotine toxicity that resulting in hospitalization were very uncommon. Death from intentional nicotine poisoning is very uncommon. Clear labeling of devices and e-liquid could reduce unintentional exposures. Child-proof packaging and directions for safe handling of e-liquids could minimize some of the risks. In January 2016, the Child Nicotine Poisoning Prevention Act of 2015 was passed into law in the US, which requires child-proof packaging.\n\nThere was inconsistent labeling of the actual nicotine content on e-liquid cartridges from some brands, and some nicotine has been found in ‘no nicotine' liquids. A 2015 PHE report noted overall the labelling accuracy has improved. Most inaccurately-labelled examples contained less nicotine than stated. Due to nicotine content inconstancy, it is recommended that e-cigarette companies develop quality standards with respect to nicotine content.\n\nBecause of the lack of production standards and controls, the pureness of e-liquid are generally not dependable, and testing of some products has shown the existence of harmful substances. The German Cancer Research Center in Germany released a report stating that e-cigarettes cannot be considered safe, in part due to technical flaws that have been found. This includes leaking cartridges, accidental contact with nicotine when changing cartridges, and potential of unintended overdose. The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) of Australia has stated that, \"Some overseas studies suggest that electronic cigarettes containing nicotine may be dangerous, delivering unreliable doses of nicotine (above or below the stated quantity), or containing toxic chemicals or carcinogens, or leaking nicotine. Leaked nicotine is a poisoning hazard for the user of electronic cigarettes, as well as others around them, particularly children.\"\n\nCannabinoid-containing e-liquids need lengthy, complex processing, some being available online without any toxicological and clinical evaluation. It is thought that cannabinoids vaped at reduced temperatures is safer because it creates smaller amounts of toxicants than the burning of a hot cannabis cigarette. The health effects of vaping cannabis formulations is mostly unknown.\n\nMost e-cigarettes use lithium batteries, the improper use of which may result in accidents. It has been recommended that manufacturing quality standards be imposed in order to prevent such accidents. Better product design and standards could probably reduce some of the risks. Concern exists from risks associated with e-cigarette explosions for children and adults.\n\nSome batteries are not well designed, are made with poor quality components, or have defects. Major injuries have occurred from battery explosions and fires. A man endured a unilateral corneoscleral laceration with prolapsed iris tissue and hyphemato to the eye area when an e-cigarette exploded in his mouth. A young man endured bilateral corneal burns to the eye area when an e-cigarette exploded near his chest. E-cigarette explosions have resulted in burns, lost teeth, neck fractures, and battery acid contact to the face, mouth, and eyes. A man died when a charging an e-cigarette blew up and caught on fire next to oxygen equipment. House and car fires and skin burns have resulted from some of the explosions. The explosions were the result of extended charging, use of unsuitable chargers, or design flaws. There is a possible risk to bystanders from e-cigarette explosions. There is also a risk of property damage as a result of flammable materials catching on fire from an e-cigarette explosion. The United States Fire Administration said that 25 fires and explosions were caused by e-cigarettes between 2009 and August 2014. In the UK fire service call-outs had risen, from 43 in 2013 to 62 in 2014. A 2015 PHE report concluded that the risks of fire from e-cigarettes \"appear to be comparable to similar electrical goods\". Battery explosions are caused by an increase in internal battery temperature and some have resulted in severe skin burns. There is a small risk of battery explosion in devices modified to increase battery power. Since e-cigarettes are not subjected to product safety testing, they may not have safety designs to avoid overheating, thermal runaway, and battery failure including fire and explosions. There is inadequate product labeling to inform users of the possible serious harms. The risk from serious adverse effects is low, but the aftermath may be disastrous in respect to an e-cigarette blast. Victims have filed lawsuits to make restitution from the e-cigarette blasts. Adverse effects may be under-reported because reports to the FDA is voluntary.\n\nIn January 2015 the US Federal Aviation Administration issued a safety alert to air carriers that e-cigarettes should not be allowed in checked baggage after a review of fire safety issues, including two fires caused by e-cigarettes in checked baggage. The International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations agency, also recommends prohibiting e-cigarettes in checked luggage. A spokesman for the Tobacco Vapor Electronic Cigarette Association said that e-cigarettes do not pose a problem if they are packed correctly in static-free packaging, but that irresponsible people may sometimes pack them carelessly or tamper with them. In-flight use of e-cigarettes is prohibited in the US.\n\nUsers may alter many of the devices, such as using them to administer other drugs like cannabis. E-liquid mixing is another way users tamper with e-cigarettes. Mixing liquid in an unclean area runs the risk of contamination. Users may add various flavorings and diluents. Vodka or other forms of alcohol may also be added. The addition of alcohol or nicotine could expose the user to more toxicants, especially when added in combinations. Some ingredients in e-liquids could be flammable; this risk is more of concern for users who are inexperienced or do not use protective gear. Users can adjust the voltage of some e-cigarettes. The amount of vapor produced is controlled by the power of the battery, which has led some users to adjust their e-cigarettes to increase battery power to obtain a stronger nicotine \"hit\", but there is a small risk of battery explosion. Some users add more or larger batteries to nonadjustable e-cigarettes, which may lead to battery leakage or explosion. The extent to which teens are altering e-cigarettes, such as dripping the liquids onto the atomizer to get more nicotine intake, is not known.\n\nThe long-term health impacts of e-cigarette use are unknown. The long-term health impacts of the main chemicals nicotine and propylene glycol in the aerosol are not fully understood. There is limited peer-reviewed data about the toxicity of e-cigarettes for a complete toxicological evaluation, and their cytotoxicity is unknown. The chemicals and toxicants included in e-cigarettes have not been completely disclosed and their safety is not guaranteed. They are similar in toxicity to other nicotine replacement products, but e-cigarettes manufacturing standards are variable standards, and many as a result are probably more toxic than nicotine replacement products. The UK National Health Service noted that the toxic chemicals found by the FDA were at levels one-thousandth that of cigarette smoke, and that while there is no certainty that these small traces are harmless, initial test results are reassuring. While there is variability in the ingredients and concentrations of ingredients in e-cigarette liquids, tobacco smoke contains thousands of chemicals, most of which are not understood and many of which are known to be harmful.\n\nConcerns about the carcinogenicity of e-cigarettes arise from both nicotine and from other chemicals that may be in the vapor. As regards nicotine, there is evidence from \"in vitro\" and animal research that nicotine may have a role as a tumor promoter, but carcinogenicity has not been demonstrated \"in vivo\". A 2014 Surgeon General of the United States report stated that the single relevant randomized trial \"does not indicate a strong role for nicotine in promoting carcinogenesis in humans\". They concluded that \"There is insufficient data to conclude that nicotine causes or contributes to cancer in humans, but there is evidence showing possible oral, esophageal, or pancreatic cancer risks\". Nicotine in the form of nicotine replacement products is less of a risk than compared to smoking, and they have not been shown to be associated with cancer in the real world.\n\nThere is no long-term research concerning the cancer risk related to the potentially small level of exposure to the identified carcinogens in the vapor. In May 2014, Cancer Research UK stated that there are \"very preliminary unpublished results that suggest that e-cigarettes promote tumour growth in human cells.\" The e-cigarette vapors triggered DNA strand breaks and lowered cell survival \"in vitro\". A 2013 study found some samples of e-cigarette vapors had cytotoxic effects on cardiac muscle cells, though the effects were less than with cigarette smoke. In October 2012, the World Medical Association stated, \"Manufacturers and marketers of e-cigarettes often claim that use of their products is a safe alternative to smoking, particularly since they do not produce carcinogenic smoke. However, no studies have been conducted to determine that the vapor is not carcinogenic, and there are other potential risks associated with these devices.\"\nSince nicotine-containing e-liquids are made from tobacco they may contain impurities like cotinine, anabasine, anatabine, myosmine and beta-nicotyrine. The majority of e-cigarettes evaluated included carcinogenic tobacco-specific nitrosamines (TSNAs); heavy metals such as cadmium, nickel, and lead; and the carcinogen toluene. However, in comparison to traditional cigarette smoke, the toxic substance levels identified in e-cigarette vapor were 9- to 450-fold less. E-liquid with tin was cytotoxic. E-cigarettes cannot be considered absolutely safe because there is no safe level for carcinogens.\n\nA 2014 review found higher levels of carcinogens and toxicants than in an FDA-approved nicotine inhaler, suggesting that FDA-approved devices may deliver nicotine more safely. In 2014, The World Lung Foundation stated that \"Researchers find that many e-cigarettes contain toxins, contaminants and carcinogens that conflict with the industry’s portrayal of its products as purer, healthier alternatives. They also find considerable variations in the amount of nicotine delivered by different brands. None of this information is made available to consumers so they really don’t know what they are ingesting, or how much.\"\n\nA 2014 review found \"Various chemical substances and ultrafine particles known to be toxic, carcinogenic and/or to cause respiratory and heart distress have been identified in e-cigarette aerosols, cartridges, refill liquids and environmental emissions.\" Few of the methods used to analyze the chemistry of e-cigarettes in the studies the review evaluated were validated.\n\nThe primary base ingredients of the liquid solution is propylene glycol and glycerin, of which about 20% to 27% of propylene glycol and glycerin-based liquid particles are inhaled. The long-term effects of inhaled propylene glycol has not been studied, and is unknown, as well as the effects of inhaled glycerin. Acute exposure to propylene glycol may cause irritation to the eyes and respiratory tract, however there is speculation that the risk from the inhalation of propylene glycol and glycerin is probably low, despite lack of evidence that either ingredient is safe. Some research states that long-term inhalation of propylene glycol emissions may cause respiratory irritation and raise the likelihood to develop asthma, especially in children. To lessen the risks, most e-cigarettes companies began to use water and glycerin as replacement for propylene glycol, although inhaled glycerin could cause lipoid pneumonia.\n\nSome e-cigarette products had acrolein identified in the aerosol. It may be generated when glycerin is heated to higher temperatures. Acrolein may induce irritation to the upper respiratory tract. Acrolein levels were reduced by 60% in dual users and 80% for those that completely switched to e-cigarettes when compared to traditional cigarettes. E-cigarettes vapor have been found to create oxidants and reactive oxygen species (OX/ROS). OX/ROS could react with other substances in the vapor because they are highly reactive. Although e-cigarettes have been found to contain OX/ROS at about 100 times less than in cigarette smoke, they probably induce meaningful biological effects.\n\nThe toxicity of e-cigarettes and e-liquid can vary greatly, as there are differences in construction and materials in the delivery device, kind and origin of ingredients in the e-liquid, and the use or non-use of good manufacturing practices and quality control approaches. If exposure of aerosols to propylene glycol and glycerin rises to levels that one would consider the exposure in association with a workplace setting, it would be sensible to investigate the health of exposed persons. The short-term toxicity of e-cigarette use appears to be low, with the exception for some people with reactive airways.\n\nThe essential propylene glycol and/or glycerin mixture may consist of natural or artificial substances to provide it flavor. The cytotoxicity of e-liquids varies, and contamination with various chemicals have been detected in the liquid. Some liquids were very toxic and others had little or no cytotoxicity. The cytotoxicity is mostly due to the amount and number of flavors added. Since nicotine has a bitter taste, nicotine e-liquids contain chemicals to cover up the nicotine taste. The liquids contain aromatic substances like tobacco, fruit, vanilla, caramel and coffee. Generally, these additives are imprecisely described, using terms such as \"vegetable flavoring\". Although they are approved for human consumption there are no studies on the short-term or long-term effects of inhaling them. The safety of inhaling flavors is mostly unknown, and their safety has not been determined by the Flavor and Extract Manufacturers Association. In some cases e-liquids contain very large amounts of flavorings, which may cause irritation and inflammation on respiratory and cardiovascular systems. Some flavors are regarded as toxic and a number of them resemble known carcinogens. Some artificial flavors are known to be cytotoxic. Unflavored vapor is less cytotoxic than flavored vapor. A 2012 study demonstrated that in embryonic and adult cellular models, some substances of the vapor such as flavoring not found in tobacco smoke were cytotoxic.\n\nCinnamaldehyde has been described as a highly cytotoxic material \"in vitro\" in cinnamon-flavored refill liquids. Cinnamaldehyde have been identified as cytotoxic at the amount of about 400 times less than those allowed for use by the US Environmental Protection Agency. A 2018 \"in vitro\" study found that exposing lung cells to liquid or vapor containing cinnamaldehyde causes significant and rapid damage to their cilia and mitochondria. This led the authors of the study to conclude that \"inhalational exposures of cinnamaldehyde may increase the risk of respiratory infections in e-cigarette users.\" Some e-liquids containing cinnamaldehyde stimulate TRPA1, which might induce effects on the lung. E-liquids contain possibly toxic aldehydes and reactive oxygen species (ROS). Many flavors are known aldehydes, such as anisaldehyde, cinnamaldehyde, and isovaleraldehyde. A 2012 study found butterscotch flavor was highly toxic with one liquid and two others had a low toxicity. A 2014 \"in vitro\" study demonstrated that e-cigarette use of a \"balsamic\" flavor with no nicotine can activate the release of proinflammatory cytokine in lung epithelial cells and keratinocytes. Some additives may be added to reduce the irritation on the pharynx. The long-term toxicity is subject to the additives and contaminants in the e-liquid.\n\nCertain flavorings contain diacetyl and acetyl propionyl which give a buttery taste. Diacetyl and acetyl propionyl are associated with bronchiolitis obliterans. A 2015 review recommended for specific regulation of diacetyl and acetyl propionyl in e-liquid, which are safe when ingested but have been associated with respiratory harm when inhaled. Both diacetyl and acetyl-propionyl have been found in concentrations above those recommended by the US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Diacetyl is normally found at lower levels in e-cigarettes than in traditional cigarettes. Concerns exist that the flavors and additives in e-cigarettes might lead to diseases, including the popcorn lung. The cardiovascular effects, including a vast range of flavorings and fragrances, is unknown. The irritants butyl acetate, diethyl carbonate, benzoic acid, quinoline, bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate, and 2,6-dimethyl phenol were present as undeclared ingredients in the e-liquid. The precise ingredients of e-cigarettes are not known.\n\nThe IARC has categorized formaldehyde as a human carcinogen, and acetaldehyde is categorized as a potential carcinogenic to humans. Aldehydes may cause harmful health effects; though, in the majority of cases, the amounts inhaled are less than with traditional cigarettes. Many chemical compounds can inadvertently be produced from e-cigarettes, especially carbonyl compounds like formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, and glyoxal by the chemical reaction of the e-liquid when the nichrome wire (heating element) is heated, to high temperatures. These compounds are frequently identified in e-cigarette aerosols. The propylene glycol-containing liquids produced the most amounts of carbonyls in e-cigarette aerosols. The levels of toxic chemicals in the vapor were found to be 1 to 2 orders of magnitude smaller than with cigarette smoke but greater than from a nicotine inhaler. Nearly all e-cigarettes evaluated, toxic and irritation-causing carbonyls were identified. Reports regarding the levels of toxic chemicals were inconsistent. This includes a study showing that the levels of toxicants in e-cigarettes may be higher than with cigarette smoke.\n\nBattery output voltage influences the level of the carbonyl substances in the vapor. A few new e-cigarettes let users boost the amount of vapor and nicotine provided by modifying the battery output voltage. E-cigarettes with higher voltages (5.0 V) can emit carcinogens including formaldehyde at levels comparable to cigarette smoke, while reduced voltages (3.0 V) generate aerosol with levels of formaldehyde and acetaldehyde roughly 13 and 807-fold less than in cigarette smoke. \"Dripping\", where the liquid is dripped directly onto the atomizer, can create carbonyls including formaldehyde.\n\nA 2015 PHE report found that normal e-cigarette use generates very low levels of aldehydes. Normal usage of e-cigarettes generates very low levels of formaldehyde, and at normal settings they generate very low levels of formaldehyde. Later-generation e-cigarettes used with higher power may generate equal or higher levels of formaldehyde than compared to smoking. A 2015 review found that these levels were the result of overheating under test conditions that bear little resemblance to common usage. A 2015 PHE report found that by applying maximum power and increasing the time the device is used on a puffing machine, e-liquids can thermally degrade and produce high levels of formaldehyde. Users detect the \"dry puff\" and avoid it, and they concluded that \"There is no indication that EC users are exposed to dangerous levels of aldehydes.\" However, e-cigarette users may \"learn\" to overcome the unpleasant taste due to elevated aldehyde formation, when the nicotine craving is high enough.\n\nPregnant women, breastfeeding mothers, and the elderly are more sensitive to nicotine than other individuals. There are safety issues with the nicotine exposure from e-cigarettes, which may cause addiction and other adverse effects. Nicotine is regarded as a potentially lethal poison. Concerns exist that vaping can be harmful by exposing users to toxic levels of nicotine. At low amounts, it has a mild analgesic effect. At high enough doses, nicotine may result in nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, salivation, bradyarrhythmia, and possibly seizures and hypoventilation. However, at the low amount of nicotine provided by e-cigarettes fatal overdose from use is unlikely; in contrast, the potent amount of nicotine in e-cigarettes liquids may be toxic if it is accidentally ingested or absorbed via the skin. The health effects of nicotine in infants and children are unclear.\n\nE-cigarettes provide nicotine to the blood quicker than nicotine inhalers. The levels were above that of nicotine replacement product users. E-cigarettes seem to have a pharmacokinetic nicotine profile closer to nicotine replacement products than with traditional cigarettes. How efficiently different e-cigarettes give nicotine is unclear. Serum cotinine levels are comparable to that of traditional cigarettes, but are inharmonious and rely upon the user and the device. Blood nicotine levels raised more gradually and took more time to get to peak concentration with e-cigarettes than with traditional cigarettes.\n\nWhen compared to traditional cigarettes older devices usually delivered low amounts of nicotine. E-cigarette use can be associated with a substantial dispersion of nicotine, thus generating a plasma nicotine concentration which can be comparable to that of traditional cigarettes. This is due to the minute nicotine particles in the vapor, which permit quick delivery into the bloodstream. The nicotine delivered from e-cigarettes enters the body slower than traditional cigarettes. Studies suggest that inexperienced users obtain moderate amounts of nicotine from e-cigarettes. Concerns were raised over inconsistent amounts of nicotine delivered when drawing on the device.\n\nLater-generation e-cigarettes give nicotine more effectively than first-generation e-cigarettes. Later-generation models with concentrated nicotine liquids may deliver nicotine at levels similar to traditional cigarettes. E-cigarettes with stronger batteries, including many later-generation models, heat solutions to higher temperatures, which may raise blood nicotine levels to those of traditional cigarettes. Research suggests that experienced e-cigarettes users are able to get as much nicotine from e-cigarettes as traditional cigarettes. Later-generation e-cigarettes containing sufficient nicotine elevate heart rate comparable to traditional cigarettes.\n\nThe health effects of long-term nicotine use is unknown. It may be decades before the long-term health effects of nicotine vapor inhalation is known. It is not recommended for non-smokers. Nicotine affects practically every cell in the body. Nicotine can cause high blood pressure and abnormal heart rhythms. Vapers with a higher amount of blood nicotine are probably correlated with increased heart rates. Nicotine may have adverse effects on lipids and cause insulin resistance. It may also lower coronary blood flow. Nicotine lowers estrogen levels and has been associated with early menopause in women. Nicotine could have cancer-promoting properties, therefore long-term use may not be harmless. Nicotine may result in neuroplasticity variations in the brain. Nicotine could make cancer therapies less effective.\n\nChildren are more sensitive to nicotine than adults. In youth, nicotine may affect capabilities connected with higher cognitive function processes, later achievement, as well as the chance of nicotine addiction for life. The adolescent's developing brain is especially sensitive to the harmful effects of nicotine. A short period of regular or occasional nicotine exposure in adolescence exerts long-term neurobehavioral damage. In August 2014, the American Heart Association noted that \"e-cigarettes could fuel and promote nicotine addiction, especially in children.\" A policy statement by the UK's Faculty of Public Health has stated, \"A key concern for everyone in public health is that children and young people are being targeted by mass advertising of e-cigarettes. There is a danger that e-cigarettes will lead to young people and non-smokers becoming addicted to nicotine and smoking. Evidence from the US backs up this concern.\"\n\nThere is limited evidence on the long-term exposure of metals. Exposure to the levels and kinds of metals found in the aerosol relies upon the material and other manufacturing designs of the heating element. E-cigarettes contain some contamination with small amounts of metals in the emissions but it is not likely that these amounts would cause a serious risk to the health of the user. The device itself could contribute to the toxicity from the tiny amounts of silicate and heavy metals found in the liquid and vapor, because they have metal parts that come in contact with the e-liquid. Low levels of possibly harmful chromium, lead, and nickel metals have been found in the emissions. Chromium and nickel nanoparticles have also been found.\nMetals may adversely affect the nervous system. A 2013 review found metallic and nanoparticles are associated with respiratory distress and disease. A 2014 review found considerable amounts of tin, metals, and silicate particles that came from various components of the e-cigarette were released into the aerosol, which result in exposure that could be higher than with cigarette smoke. A 2013 study found metal particles in the aerosol were at levels 10-50 times less than permitted in inhalation medicines. A 2014 review suggested that there is no evidence of contamination of the aerosol with metals that justifies a health concern.\n\nAbbreviations: \"μg\", microgram; \"ng\", nanogram; ND, not detected.\n<br>\n∗Fifteen puffs were chosen to estimate the nicotine delivery of one traditional cigarette.\n\nThe risks to the lungs are not fully understood, and concern exists regarding the negative effects on lung function. There is limited evidence on the long-term health effects to the lungs. Many ingredients used in e-liquids have not been examined in the lung. The effects of e-cigarette use in respect to asthma and other respiratory diseases are unknown. A 2015 review found e-cigarettes may induce acute lung disease. A 2015 study found that e-cigarette vapors can induce oxidative stress in lung endothelial cells. Constant lung inflammation as a result of the vapor could result in lung pathogenesis and induce serious diseases, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and fibrosis. The limited evidence suggests that e-cigarettes produce less short-term effects on lung function than traditional cigarettes. A 2014 case report observed the correlation between sub-acute bronchiolitis and vaping. After quitting vaping the symptoms improved.\n\nThe long-term effects regarding respiratory flow resistance are unknown. E-cigarettes could harm the respiratory system. The immediate effects of e-cigarettes after 5 minutes of use on pulmonary function resulted in considerable increases in resistance to lung airflow. A 2013 review found an instant increase in airway resistance after using a single e-cigarette. Any reported harmful effects to cardiovascular and respiratory functions after short-term use of e-cigarettes were appreciably milder in comparison to cigarette smoke. When used in the short-term, an e-cigarette resulted in a rise of respiratory resistance comparatively to traditional cigarettes. E-cigarette use could result in respiratory diseases among youth.\n\nThere is no data available on the long-term cardiovascular effects. There is no published research available on vaping and thrombosis, platelet reactivity, atherosclerosis, or blood vessel function. The minute nicotine particles in the vapor could increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmias and hypertension which may put some users, particularly those with atherosclerosis or other cardiovascular risk factors, at significant risk of acute coronary syndrome. Some case reports documented the possible cardiovascular adverse effects from using e-cigarettes, the majority associated was with improper use. Even though e-cigarettes are anticipated to produce fewer harmful substances than traditional cigarettes, limited evidence supports they comparatively have a lessened raised cardiovascular risk. E-cigarette use leads to sympathomimetic effects because of nicotine intake. It is argued that there could be a risk for harmful effects, including tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy. E-cigarettes containing nicotine may have a lower cardiovascular effect than traditional cigarettes containing nicotine. Short-term physiological effects include increases in blood pressure and heart rate. A 2012 case report found a correlation between paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and vaping.\n\nComparable to a traditional cigarette, e-cigarette particles are tiny enough to enter the alveoli, enabling nicotine absorption. These particles are also tiny enough to go deep in the lungs and enter into the systemic circulation. Local pulmonary toxicity may occur because metal nanoparticles can deposit in the lung's alveolar sacs. E-cigarettes companies assert that the particulates produced by an e-cigarette are too tiny to be deposited in the alveoli. Different devices generate different particle sizes and cause different depositions in the respiratory tract, even from the same nicotine liquid. The aerosol production of e-cigarettes during vaping decreases, which requires a more forceful suction to create a similar volume of aerosol. A more forceful suction could affect the deposition of substances into the lungs. Reports in the literature have shown respiratory and cardiovascular effects by these smaller size particles, suggesting a possible health concern.\n\nConcern exists regarding the immunological effects of e-liquid, and analysis on animals demonstrate that e-liquid vapor, appear to have adverse effects on the immune system. There were reports of e-cigarettes causing an immune system reaction involving inflammation of the gastrointestinal system. Long-term use could increase the risk of tuberculosis. It is possible that e-cigarettes could harm the periodontium because of the effects of nicotine on gum tissues and the immune system. Some health effects associated with e-cigarette use can include recurring ulcerative colitis, lipoid pneumonia, acute eosinophilic pneumonitis, sub-acute bronchial toxicity, reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome, and reversal of chronic idiopathic neutrophilia.\n\nThe aerosol of e-cigarettes is generated when the e-liquid reaches a temperature of roughly 100-250 °C within a chamber. The user inhales the aerosol, commonly called vapor, rather than cigarette smoke. In physics, a vapor is a substance in the gas phase whereas an aerosol is a suspension of tiny particles of liquid, solid or both within a gas. The aerosol is made-up of liquid sub-micron particles of condensed vapor, which mostly consist of propylene glycol, glycerol, water, flavorings, nicotine, and other chemicals. After a puff, inhalation of the aerosol travels from the device into the mouth and lungs. The particle size distribution and sum of particles emitted by e-cigarettes are like traditional cigarettes, with the majority of particles in the ultrafine range.\nAfter the aerosol is inhaled, it is exhaled. Emissions from electronic cigarettes are not comparable to environmental pollution or cigarette smoke as their nature and chemical composition are completely different The particles are larger, with the mean size being 600 nm in inhaled aerosol and 300 nm in exhaled vapor. Bystanders are exposed to these particles from exhaled e-cigarette vapor. There is a concern that some of the mainstream vapor exhaled by e-cigarette users can be inhaled by bystanders, particularly indoors, and have significant adverse effects. Since e-cigarettes involve an aerosolization process, it is suggested that no meaningful amounts of carbon monoxide are emitted. Thus, cardiocirculatory effects caused by carbon monoxide are not likely. E-cigarette use by a parent might lead to inadvertent health risks to offspring. E-cigarettes pose many safety concerns to children. For example, indoor surfaces can accumulate nicotine where e-cigarettes were used, which may be inhaled by children, particularly youngsters, long after they were used.\n\nE-liquid is the mixture used in vapor products such as electronic cigarettes. The main ingredients in the e-liquid usually are propylene glycol, glycerin, nicotine, and flavorings. However, there are e-liquids sold without propylene glycol, nicotine, or flavors. The liquid typically contains 95% propylene glycol and glycerin. The flavorings may be natural or artificial. About 8,000 flavors exist as of 2014. There are many e-liquids manufacturers in the USA and worldwide. While there are currently no US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) manufacturing standards for e-liquid, the FDA has proposed regulations that are expected to be finalized in late 2015. Industry standards have been created and published by the American E-liquid Manufacturing Standards Association (AEMSA).\n\nConcerns exists regarding pregnant women exposure to e-cigarette vapor through direct use or via exhaled vapor. No evidence have shown that e-cigarettes are safe to use for pregnant women. No amount of nicotine is safe for pregnant women. , there are no conclusions on the possible hazards of pregnant women using e-cigarettes, and there is a developing research on the negative effects of nicotine on prenatal brain development. E-cigarette are assumed to be dangerous to the fetus during pregnancy if e-cigarettes are used by the mother. Nicotine is harmful to the growing fetus. Nicotine accumulates in the fetus because it goes through the placenta.\n\n, the long-term issues of e-cigarettes on both mother and unborn baby are unknown. Prenatal nicotine exposure is associated with adverse effects on the growing fetus, including effects to normal growth of the endocrine, reproductive, respiratory, cardiovascular, and neurologic systems. Prenatal nicotine exposure is associated with lower birth weights than other babies, stillbirth, sudden infant death syndrome, and alterations to normal brain development. Prenatal nicotine exposure is associated with asthma and wheezing which may continue into adulthood. Gestational age nicotine exposure is associated with many neurological deficits. Prenatal exposure has been associated with obesity, diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure in minors. Prenatal nicotine exposure in females may lead toward early menarche. An infant was born with necrotizing enterocolitis due to e-cigarette use during pregnancy.\n\nIn what way the e-liquid ingredients could affect a fetus is unknown. The toxicity of e-liquid flavorings was higher in embryonic stem cells compared to differentiated adult pulmonary fibroblasts, leading to concerns about pregnant women being exposed to the second-hand vapor. There are concerns about the health impacts of pediatric exposure to second-hand and third-hand e-cigarette vapor. The Surgeon General's 2014 report found \"that nicotine adversely affects maternal and fetal health during pregnancy, and that exposure to nicotine during fetal development has lasting adverse consequences for brain development.\" The belief that e-cigarettes are safer than traditional cigarettes could increase their use in pregnant women. The toxic effects identified with e-cigarette refill liquids on stem cells may be interpreted as embryonic death or birth defects. Since e-cigarettes are not validated as cessation tools, may contain nicotine at inconsistent levels and added ingredients that are possibly harmful, allowing e-cigarettes to be used among pregnant women to decrease smoking puts this group at considerable risk. There is concern for breastfeeding women using e-cigarettes, due to the lack of data on propylene glycol transferring to breastmilk.\n\nThere is limited information available on any environmental issues connected to the production, usage, and disposal of e-cigarette models that use cartridges. , no formal studies have been done to evaluate the environmental effects of making or disposing of any part of e-cigarettes including the batteries or nicotine production. , it is uncertain if the nicotine in e-liquid is United States Pharmacopeia-grade nicotine, a tobacco extract, or synthetic nicotine when questioning the environmental impact of how it is made. It is not clear which manufacturing methods are used to make the nicotine used in e-cigarettes. The emissions from making nicotine could be considerable from manufacturing if not appropriately controlled. Some e-cigarette brands that use cartridges state their products are ‘eco-friendly’ or ‘green’, despite the absence of any supporting studies. Some writers contend that such marketing may raise sales and increase e-cigarette interest, particularly among minors.\n\nIt is unclear how many traditional cigarettes are comparable to using one e-cigarette that uses a cartridge for the average user. Information is limited on energy and materials used for production of e-cigarettes versus traditional cigarettes, for comparable use. E-cigarettes can be made manually put together in small factories, or they can be made in automated lines on a much bigger scale. Larger plants will produce greater emissions to the surrounding environment, and thus will have a greater environmental impact. Although some brands have begun recycling services for their e-cigarette cartridges and batteries, the prevalence of recycling is unknown, as is the prevalence of information provided by manufacturers on how to recycle disposable parts. A 2014 review found \"disposable e-cigarettes might cause an electrical waste problem.\" Since the majority of e-cigarettes are reusable they are possibly more environmentally friendly than using single-use devices. Compared to traditional cigarettes, e-cigarettes do not create litter in the form of discarded cigarette butts. Traditional cigarette tend to end up in the ocean where they cause pollution.\n\nMarketing and advertisement affects the public’s perception of e-cigarettes. Some tobacco users think vaping is safer than tobacco or other smoking cessation aids. It is generally considered by users that e-cigarettes are safer than tobacco. Many users think that e-cigarettes are healthier than traditional cigarettes for personal use or for other people. Usually, only a small proportion of users are concerned about the possible adverse health effects or toxicity of e-cigarettes. A 2014 worldwide survey found that 88% of respondents stated that vaping were less harmful than cigarette smoke and 11% believed that vaping were absolutely harmless. A 2013 four-country survey found higher than 75% of current and former smokers think e-cigarettes are safer than traditional cigarettes. The UK Action on Smoking and Health (ASH) found that in 2015, compared to the year before, \"there has been a growing false belief that electronic cigarettes could be as harmful as smoking\". Among smokers who had heard of e-cigarettes but never tried them, this \"perception of harm has nearly doubled from 12% in 2014 to 22% in 2015.\" The UK ASH expressed concern that \"The growth of this false perception risks discouraging many smokers from using electronic cigarettes to quit and keep them smoking instead which would be bad for their health and the health of those around them.\"\n\nA 2015 PHE report noted that in the US belief among respondents to a survey that vaping was safer than smoking cigarettes fell from 82% in 2010 to 51% in 2014. The report blamed \"misinterpreted research findings\", attracting negative media coverage, for the growth in the \"inaccurate\" belief that e-cigarettes were as harmful as smoking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "601836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=601836", "title": "Sociosexual orientation", "text": "Sociosexual orientation\n\nSociosexual orientation, or sociosexuality, is the individual difference in the willingness to engage in sexual activity outside of a committed relationship. Individuals with a more \"restricted\" sociosexual orientation are less willing to engage in casual sex; they prefer greater love, commitment and emotional closeness before having sex with romantic partners. Individuals who have a more \"unrestricted\" sociosexual orientation are more willing to have casual sex and are more comfortable engaging in sex without love, commitment or closeness.\n\nThe revised Sociosexual Orientation Inventory (SOI-R) was designed to measure sociosexuality, with high SOI scores corresponding to an unrestricted orientation and low SOI scores denoting a more restricted orientation. The SOI-R also allows for the separate assessment of three facets of sociosexuality: behavior, attitude and desire.\n\nMen tend to have higher SOI scores and be more unrestricted than women across a variety of cultures. However, there is more variability in scores within each gender than between men and women, indicating that although the average man is less restricted than the average woman, individuals may vary in sociosexual orientation regardless of gender.\n\nBisexual women are significantly less restricted in their sociosexual attitudes than both lesbian and heterosexual women. Bisexual women are also the most unrestricted in sociosexual behavior, followed by lesbians and then, heterosexual women. Gay and bisexual men are similar to heterosexual men in sociosexual attitudes, in that they express relatively unrestricted attitudes relative to women. However, gay men are the most unrestricted in sociosexual behavior, followed by bisexual men and then, heterosexual men. This may be because gay men have more potential mating partners who prefer short-term, casual sexual encounters.\n\nUnrestricted sociosexuality is associated with early life experiences with sex, more frequent sexual activity and a greater number of lifetime sex partners. Unrestricted men tend to have greater rape myth acceptance, past sexual aggression and more conservative attitudes about women than restricted men. Unrestricted women tend to have more sexual fantasies involving having power or control over another person and lower levels of sexual conservatism than restricted women.\n\nIndividuals who are sociosexually unrestricted tend to score higher on openness to experience, and be more extraverted, less agreeable, lower on honesty-humility, more erotophilic, more impulsive, more likely to take risks, more likely to have an avoidant attachment style, less likely to have a secure attachment style, and score higher on the Dark Triad traits (i.e. narcissism, Machiavellianism, psychopathy). Higher masculinity and eveningness in women is related to unrestricted sociosexuality. High self-monitoring is also associated with unrestricted sociosexuality, regardless of gender or sexual orientation.\n\nIndividuals with an intrinsic religious orientation (i.e., religion as an end) tend to be sociosexually restricted, while those with an extrinsic religious orientation (i.e., religion as a mean to achieve non-religious goals) tend to be unrestricted.\n\nUnrestricted women are more motivated to engage in casual sex than restricted women as they perceive more benefits associated with short-term mating. These include sexual benefits (e.g., experiencing the novelty of a new partner), resource benefits (e.g., receiving expensive gifts) and the improvement of their seduction skills. Sociosexuality is not associated with short-term benefits for men.\n\nWhen viewing attractive female models, unrestricted men are more interested in the models’ physical attractiveness, while restricted men show more interest in the social traits presumably possessed by attractive females. Unrestricted women report more interest in attractive male models’ popularity and are less interested in their willingness to commit, compared to restricted women.\n\nMen and women with an unrestricted sociosexual orientation view short-term mates with greater sexual experience as more desirable, whereas restricted women perceive partners’ sexual inexperience as desirable. Unrestricted individuals place more importance on partners’ physical attractiveness and sex appeal, while restricted individuals place more weight on characteristics indicative of good personal and parenting qualities (e.g., kind, responsible, faithful). Judgement of sexual attractiveness is more variable in unrestricted men than in restricted males.\n\nIndividuals are able to accurately assess the sociosexual orientation of computer-generated and real faces, with unrestricted sociosexuality being associated with greater attractiveness in female faces and greater masculinity in male faces. Women tend to prefer male faces associated with restricted sociosexuality, while men prefer unrestricted female faces, both for short-term and long-term partners.\n\nUnrestricted women report engaging in more social interactions with men on a daily basis than restricted women. However, unrestricted individuals rate their interactions with their best friends (non-romantic) as lower in quality (i.e., as less pleasant and satisfying) than restricted individuals. Unrestricted individuals are also more likely to view cheating or infidelity as acceptable under certain conditions (e.g., when involved in a bad relationship), and report engaging in more cheating than restricted individuals. The relationship between sociosexual orientation and infidelity is mediated by commitment, meaning unrestricted individuals may cheat because they are less committed to their partner than restricted individuals.\n\nIndividuals who are partnered typically have lower testosterone levels than individuals who are single. However, this was found to apply solely to individuals possessing a restricted sociosexual orientation. Partnered, unrestricted men and women’s testosterone levels are more similar to the levels of single men and women.\n\nIn regions that suffer from a high prevalence of infectious diseases, both men and women report lower levels of sociosexuality, as the costs of an incautious lifestyle (i.e., being unrestricted) may outweigh the benefits.\n\nPossessing an unrestricted sociosexual orientation seems to increase the likelihood of having a son by 12-19% in American samples. This may be explained by the generalized Trivers-Willard hypothesis, which states that parents who possess any heritable trait that increases males’ reproductive success above females’ will have more sons, and will have more daughters if they possess traits that increase females’ reproductive success above males’. Since unrestricted sociosexuality increases the reproductive fitness of sons more than daughters (as males have the potential to have more offspring through casual sex), unrestricted parents have a higher-than-expected offspring sex ratio (more sons).\n\nAccording to the parental investment theory, the gender that invests more in offspring tends to be more discriminating and more sociosexually restricted (usually women, due to pregnancy, childbirth and lactation). In a year, a woman can give birth once (except in the case of a multiple pregnancy), regardless of the number of partners she has had, whereas a man can potentially have more children than the number of women with whom he has slept due to multiple births. Thus, women should be more selective and restricted in order to have children with partners possessing good genes and resources, who can provide for potential offspring. Men, however, may increase their reproductive fitness by being unrestricted and having many children with many women. Thus, since men do not need to invest as much physically (no pregnancy), they tend to have a more unrestricted sociosexual orientation.\n\nOperational sex ratio is the number of sexually competing males versus the number of sexually competing females in the local mating pool. High sex ratios indicate that there are more men than women available, while low sex ratios imply more women than men are sexually available. High sex ratios (more men) are associated with lower SOI scores (more restricted sociosexual orientation), as men must satisfy women’s preference for long-term monogamous relationships if they are to effectively compete for the limited number of women. Low sex ratios (more women) are correlated with more unrestricted sociosexuality, as men can afford to demand more casual sex if they are relatively scarce and in demand.\n\nStrategic pluralism suggests that women evolved to evaluate men on two dimensions: their potential to be a good provider for offspring and their degree of genetic quality. The local environment should have influenced which mate characteristics were preferred by women. In demanding environments where biparental care was critical to infant survival, women should have valued good parenting qualities more, leading men to adopt a more restricted sociosexual orientation and invest more in their offspring to help ensure their children survive. In disease-prevalent environments, good genes that would help offspring resist pathogens should have been prioritized by women, leading healthy men to be more sociosexually unrestricted in order to pass on their genes to many offspring.\n\nAccording to social structural theory, the division of labor and social expectations lead to gender differences in sociosexuality. In cultures with more traditional gender roles (where women have less freedom than men), gender differences in sociosexual orientation are larger. In these societies, where women have less access to power and money than men, it is expected that women should be more sexually restricted and only have sexual relations with men in the context of a committed relationship, whereas men may be sexually unrestricted if they wish. In more egalitarian societies, where men and women have equal access to power and money, the gender difference in sociosexuality is less pronounced, as individuals may take on the social role of the other gender.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1776069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1776069", "title": "Stuttgart-Degerloch water tower", "text": "Stuttgart-Degerloch water tower\n\nThe Water Tower Stuttgart Degerloch is a bricked water tower in Stuttgart-Degerloch, Germany. It was built in 1911/1912 and is 28 metres high. The water tower in Stuttgart Degerloch has a diameter of 10.9 metres, a height of 28 metres and a container volume of 400 m³. During World War II the water tower provided a marking point by the allied planes for the bombing of the heavy anti aircraft flak battery in Degerloch. This scenario prompted the authorities to blast three metres from the top of the water tower to bring its height even with the height level of the trees nearby thus blending the towers appearance in with the forest.\n"}
{"id": "9143229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9143229", "title": "Tacpac", "text": "Tacpac\n\nTacpac (Touch and Communication Pac) is a sensory communication resource using touch and music to align the senses and develop communication skills. It helps those who have any kind of sensory impairment or communication difficulties. It can also help those who have tactile defensiveness, profound and multiple learning difficulties, autism, Down syndrome, and dementia.\n\nTacpac uses specially composed music that matches the texture of the object for each activity so that those who are receiving Tacpac have an aligned experience. Over time, users can employ this to help them communicate. \n\nTacpac comes in the form of a subscription which is accessed both on the website and also on the app for phones and tablets. The resources include the full music tracks, instruction videos for each activity, and downloadable/printable records that keep sheets and instruction sheets. The app enables users to play full music tracks without an internet connection.\n\nThrough repetition of activities in the Tacpac repertoire, a receiver learns to show responses that can be understood: e.g., those manifesting like/dislike; want/rejection; and know/nescient. Users can begin to move in response to stimuli, anticipate activities, and relate to the helper. These primal responses that comprise pre-intentional and affective communication can be crucial steps toward more clearly defined intentional communication and even language acquisition.\n\nAs one researcher writes: \"One of the most effective ways of establishing contact with deafblind children and so encouraging a communicative response is to share activities with a high levels of physical contact and pleasant sensations. These include [...] Tacpac, a package where taped music is linked to a range of tactile sensations.\"\n\nThe number of research projects around Tacpac is growing. It has found support from the Royal National Institute of Blind People in the UK, and has growing followers amongst multi-sensory impairment networks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "713376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=713376", "title": "Tanner scale", "text": "Tanner scale\n\nThe Tanner scale (also known as the Tanner stages) is a scale of physical development in children, adolescents and adults. The scale defines physical measurements of development based on external primary and secondary sex characteristics, such as the size of the breasts, genitals, testicular volume and development of pubic hair. This scale was first identified by James Tanner, a British pediatrician, and thus bears his name.\n\nDue to natural variation, individuals pass through the Tanner stages at different rates, depending in particular on the timing of puberty. In HIV treatment, the Tanner scale is used to determine which treatment regimen to follow (adult, adolescent or pediatric).\nAdapted from text by Lawrence Neinstein, M.D.\n\n\n\n\nThe scale has been criticized by the pornography industry for its potential to lead to false child pornography convictions, such as in the case when United States federal authorities used it to assert that pornographic actress Lupe Fuentes was underage. Fuentes personally appeared at the trial and provided documentation that showed that the DVDs in question were legally produced. Tanner, the author of the classification system, has argued that age classification using the stages of the scale represents invalid use. Tanner stages do not match with chronological age, but rather maturity stages and thus are not diagnostic for age estimation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8192220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8192220", "title": "Theca of follicle", "text": "Theca of follicle\n\nThe theca folliculi comprise a layer of the ovarian follicles. They appear as the follicles become secondary follicles.\n\nThe theca are divided into two layers, the theca interna and the theca externa.\n\nTheca cells are a group of endocrine cells in the ovary made up of connective tissue surrounding the follicle that has many diverse functions during folliculogenesis. These roles include synthesizing androgens, providing signal transduction between granulosa cells and oocytes during development by the establishment of a vascular system, providing nutrients, and providing structure and support to the follicle as it matures. The theca cells are responsible for the production of androstenedione, and indirectly the production of 17β estradiol, also called E2, by supplying the neighboring granulosa cells with androstenedione that with the help of the enzyme aromatase can be used as a substrate for this type of estradiol. FSH induces the granulosa cells to make aromatase that converts the androgens made by the theca interna into estradiol.\n\nTheca cells with granulosa cells help form the corpus luteum. Theca cells are only correlated with developing ovarian follicles. They are the leading cause of endocrine-based infertility, as either hyperactivity or hypoactivity of the theca cells can lead to fertility problems; hyperactivity of theca cells causes hyperandrogenism, and hypoactivity leads to a lack of estrogen. Granulosa cell tumors, while rare (less than 5% of ovarian cancers), involve both the granulosa cells and the theca cells. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8952773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8952773", "title": "Traveling screen", "text": "Traveling screen\n\nA traveling screen is a type of water filtration device that has a continuously moving mesh screen that is used to catch and remove debris. This type of device is usually found in water intake systems for water and wastewater treatment plants. Screening is considered the first step in conventional sewage treatment processes. Screening is also used in water intakes in power plants. Traveling screens can be used to catch leaves, sticks, grass, jellyfish, trash, green mussels, shells, hydroids, seaweed, and plastics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1040760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1040760", "title": "WebMD", "text": "WebMD\n\nWebMD is an American corporation known primarily as an online publisher of news and information pertaining to human health and well-being. The site includes information pertaining to drugs. It is one of the top healthcare websites by unique visitors.\n\nIt was founded in 1996 by internet entrepreneur Jeff Arnold. In early 1999 it was part of a three way merger with Sapient Health Network (SHN) and Direct Medical Knowledge (DMK). SHN began in Portland, OR in 1996 by Jim Kean, Bill Kelly, and Kris Nybakken, who worked together at a CD-ROM publishing firm, Creative Multimedia. Later in 1999, WebMD merged with Healtheon, founded by Netscape Communications founder Jim Clark.\n\nDuring 2015, WebMD’s network of websites reached more unique visitors each month than any other leading private or government healthcare website, making it the leading health publisher in the United States. In the fourth quarter of 2016, WebMD recorded an average of 179.5 million unique users per month, and 3.63 billion page views per quarter.\n\nWebMD is best known as a health information services website, which publishes content regarding health and health care topics, including a symptom checklist, pharmacy information, drugs information, and blogs of physicians with specific topics, and provides a place to store personal medical information. URAC, the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission, has accredited WebMD’s operations continuously since 2001 regarding everything from proper disclosures and health content to security and privacy.\n\nThe company reported $705 million in revenue for the year 2016. In 2017, private equity company Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (K.K.R.) agreed to purchase WebMD Health Corporation for approximately $2.8 billion.\n\nWebMD is financed by advertising, third-party contributions, and sponsors.\n\nIn 2013, the \"Chicago Tribune\" reported that WebMD, \"has struggled with a fall in advertising revenue with pharmaceutical companies slashing marketing budgets as several blockbuster drugs go off patent.\" In response, WebMD began investing in changes to its site which the company hopes will entice users who use its site seeking specific information, to linger on the site reviewing other material.\n\nWebMD offers services to physicians and private clients. For example, they publish \"WebMD the Magazine\", a patient-directed publication distributed bimonthly to 85 percent of physician waiting rooms. Medscape is a professional portal for physicians featuring the most recent news and peer-review articles as well as training materials, a drug database, and clinical information on 30 medical specialty areas and more than 30 physician discussion boards. WebMD Health Services provides private health management programs and benefit decision-support portals to employers and health plans.\n\nThe WebMD Health Network operates WebMD Health and other health-related sites including: Medscape, MedicineNet, eMedicine, eMedicineHealth, RxList, theheart.org, Medscape Education, and other-owned WebMD sites. These sites provide similar services to those of WebMD; MedicineNet is an online media publishing company. Medscape offers up-to-date information for physicians and other healthcare professionals. RxList offers detailed information about pharmaceutical information on generic and name-brand drugs. eMedicineHealth is a consumer site offering similar information to that of WebMD. It was first based on the site created for physicians and healthcare professionals called eMedicine.com.\n\nWebMD China is operated by an unaffiliated online publishing group, and is not part of the WebMD Health Network.\n\n\"The New York Times\" writer Virginia Hefferman criticized WebMD, saying that it biases readers toward using unnecessary drugs sold by their pharmaceutical sponsors, specifically, in cases for which the drug has been determined to be unnecessary.\n\n"}
{"id": "7533456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7533456", "title": "Zichron Menachem", "text": "Zichron Menachem\n\nZichron Menachem is the Israeli association for the support of children with cancer and their families. It offers immediate, practical and long-term solutions to the wide range of problems that must be overcome from the moment that a child has been diagnosed with cancer. It also provides support to children who have a parent living with cancer. The organization is headquartered in Jerusalem and operates in all major Israeli hospitals with pediatric oncology/hematology wards.\n\nZichron Menachem was established in 1990 in memory of Menachem Ehrental, an Israeli boy who battled cancer for over 14 years - from age 18 months until his young death. Drawing on their vast experience as parents of a cancer-stricken child, Menachem's parents, together with family and friends, founded Zichron Menachem as a nonprofit organization aimed at easing the suffering of young cancer patients and their families. \n\nBy 2006 Zichron Menachem has helped thousands of children and families. It has an extensive network of hundreds of professionally trained volunteers in every part of Israel.\n\nAll Zichron Menachem programs, activities and facilities are offered free-of-charge to children stricken with cancer, and their families, regardless of their religion, ethnic origin or socio-economic status. \n\nIts programs include:\n\nThe Zichron Menachem Day Center in Jerusalem is an educational, recreational and rehabilitation center dedicated for the exclusive use of children with cancer and their families. Many of these children have suppressed immune systems due to chemotherapy, and in order to protect their already fragile health, they cannot always attend school and social events. The center offers these children a clean environment where they continue their studies, undergo specific therapies and enjoy a wide range of fun and entertaining activities. Music, computers, art, rocketry, sports, photography and journalism are but a few of the many extracurricular activities offered to the children. The Day Center offers these same activities to the sick child’s brothers and sisters during the afternoon and early evening hours.\n\nIn recognition of its humanitarian activities, Zichron Menachem has been awarded with awards, including:\n\nZichron Menachem is a registered non-profit, charitable organization in Israel, the USA and the United Kingdom. \"Friends of Zichron Menachem\" organizations and committees in the USA ('The Children's Bridge of Zichron Menachem'), UK and Europe help support Zichron Menachem's programs, activities and facilities.\n\n"}
