{"id": "24305505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24305505", "title": "1984 anti-Sikh riots", "text": "1984 anti-Sikh riots\n\nThe 1984 anti-Sikh riots, also known as the 1984 Sikh Massacre, was a series of organised pogroms against Sikhs in India by anti-Sikh mobs in response to the assassination of Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards. Official Indian government reports numbered about 2,800 killed across India, including 2,100 in Delhi. Independent sources estimate the number of deaths at about 8,000, including at least 3,000 in Delhi. \n\nViolence continued in the early 1980s due to the armed Sikh separatist Khalistan movement which sought independence from India. In July 1983, the Sikh political party Akali Dal's President Harchand Singh Longowal had invited Bhindranwale to take up residence in Golden Temple Complex to evade arrest. Bhindranwale later on made the sacred temple complex an armoury and headquarters. In the violent events leading up to the Operation Blue Star since the inception of Akali Dharm Yudh Morcha, the militants had killed 165 Hindus and Nirankaris, even 39 Sikhs opposed to Bhindranwale were killed. The total number of deaths was 410 in violent incidents and riots while 1,180 people were injured. \n\nOperation Blue Star was an Indian military operation carried out between 1 and 8 June 1984, ordered by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to remove militant religious leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and his armed militants from the buildings of the Harmandir Sahib complex in Amritsar, Punjab. Bhindranwale died and militants were removed from the temple complex. The military action in the temple complex was criticized by Sikhs worldwide who had interpreted it as an assault on Sikh religion. Four months after the operation, on 31 October 1984, Indira Gandhi was assassinated in vengeance by her two Sikh bodyguards, Satwant Singh and Beant Singh. \n\nPublic outcry over Gandhi's death led to the killings of Sikhs in the ensuing riots. In the aftermath of the riots, the government reported that 20,000 had fled the city; the People's Union for Civil Liberties reported \"at least\" 1,000 displaced persons. The most-affected regions were the Sikh neighbourhoods of Delhi. Human rights organisations and newspapers across India believed that the massacre was organised. The collusion of political officials in the violence and judicial failure to penalise the perpetrators alienated Sikhs and increased support for the Khalistan movement.<ref name=\"Watch/Asia(US)1994\"></ref> The Akal Takht, Sikhism's governing body, considers the killings genocide.\n\nIn 2011, Human Rights Watch reported that the Government of India had \"yet to prosecute those responsible for the mass killings\". According to the 2011 WikiLeaks cable leaks, the United States was convinced of Indian National Congress complicity in the riots and called it \"opportunism\" and \"hatred\" by the Congress government of Sikhs. Although the U.S. has not identified the riots as genocide, it acknowledged that \"grave human rights violations\" occurred. In 2011, a new group of mass graves was discovered in Haryana and Human Rights Watch reported that \"widespread anti-Sikh attacks in Haryana were part of broader revenge attacks\" in India. The Central Bureau of Investigation, the main Indian investigative agency, believes that the violence was organised with support from the Delhi police and some central-government officials.\n\nIn 1972 Punjab state elections, Congress won and Akali Dal was defeated. In 1973 Akali Dal put forward the Anandpur Sahib Resolution resolution to demand more autonomy to Punjab. It demanded that power be generally devoluted from the Central to state governments. The Congress government considered the resolution a secessionist document and rejected it. Bhindranwale then joined the Akali Dal to launch the Dharam Yudh Morcha in 1982, to implement Anandpur Sahib resolution. Bhindranwale had risen to prominence in the Sikh political circle with his policy of getting the Anandpur Resolution passed, failing which he wanted to declare a separate country of Khalistan as a homeland for Sikhs. Others demanded an autonomous state in India, based on the Anandpur Sahib Resolution. Many Sikhs condemned the militants' actions.\n\nBhindranwale symbolized the revivalist, extremist and terrorist movement in the 1980s in Punjab. He is credited with launching the Sikh militancy in Punjab. Under Bhindranwale, the number of people initiating into the Khalsa increased. He also increased the level of rhetoric on the perceived \"assault\" on Sikh values from the Hindu community. Bhindranwale and his followers started carrying firearms at all times. In 1983, to escape arrest, he along with his militant cadre occupied and fortified the sikh shrine Akal Takht.\n\nBy 1983, the situation in Punjab was volatile. In October, Sikh militants stopped a bus and shot six passengers. On the same day, another group killed two officials on a train. The Congress-led central government dismissed the Punjab state government (led by their party), invoking the president's rule. During the five months before Operation Blue Star, from 1 January to 3 June 1984, 298 people were killed in violent incidents across Punjab. In the five days preceding the operation, 48 people were killed by violence. In the violent events leading up to the Operation Blue Star since the inception of Akali Dharm Yudh Morcha, the militants had killed 165 Hindus and Nirankaris, even 39 Sikhs opposed to Bhindranwale were killed. The total number of deaths was 410 in violent incidents and riots while 1,180 people were injured.\n\nOn 1 June Operation Blue Star was launched to remove him and the armed militants from the Golden Temple complex. On 6 June Bhindranwale died in the operation. Casualty figures for the Army were 83 dead and 249 injured. According to the official estimate presented by the Indian government, 1592 were apprehended and there were 493 combined militant and civilian casualties. High civilian casualties were attributed to militants using pilgrims trapped inside the temple as human shields. Later operations by Indian paramilitary forces were conducted to clear the separatists from the state of Punjab.\n\nThe operation carried out in the temple caused outrage among the Sikhs and increased the support for Khalistan Movement. Four months after the operation, on 31 October 1984, Indira Gandhi was assassinated in vengeance by her two Sikh bodyguards, Satwant Singh and Beant Singh. One of the assassins was fatally shot by Gandhi's other bodyguards while the other was convicted of Gandhi's murder and then executed. Public outcry over Gandhi's death led to the killings of Sikhs in the ensuing 1984 anti-Sikh riots.\n\nAfter the assassination of Indira Gandhi on 31 October 1984 by two of her Sikh bodyguards, anti-Sikh riots erupted the following day. They continued in some areas for several days, killing more than 3,000 Sikhs in New Delhi and an estimated 8,000 or more in 40 cities across India by the anti-Sikh mobs. Sultanpuri, Mangolpuri, Trilokpuri, and other Trans-Yamuna areas of Delhi were the worst affected. Perpetrators carried iron rods, knives, clubs, and combustible material (including kerosene and petrol). They entered Sikh neighbourhoods, killing Sikhs indiscriminately and destroying shops and houses. Armed mobs stopped buses and trains in and near Delhi, pulling off Sikh passengers for lynching; some were burnt alive. Others were dragged from their homes and hacked to death, and Sikh women were reportedly gang-raped and Sikhs also had acid thrown on them.\n\nThe riots are identified as pogroms, massacres or genocide.\n\nOn 31 October, a crowd around the All India Institute of Medical Sciences began shouting vengeance slogans such as \"Blood for blood!\" and became an unruly mob. At 17:20, President Zail Singh arrived at the hospital and the mob stoned his car. It began assaulting Sikhs, stopping cars and buses to pull Sikhs out and burn them. The violence on 31 October, restricted to the area around the AIIMS, resulted in many Sikh deaths. Residents of other parts of Delhi reported that their neighbourhoods were peaceful.\n\nDuring the night of 31 October and the morning of 1 November, Congress Party leaders met with local supporters to distribute money and weapons. Congress MP Sajjan Kumar and trade-union leader Lalit Maken handed out notes and bottles of liquor to the assailants. On the morning of 1 November, Sajjan Kumar was observed holding rallies in the Delhi neighbourhoods of Palam Colony (from 06:30 to 07:00), Kiran Gardens (08:00 to 08:30), and Sultanpuri (about 08:30 to 09:00). In Kiran Gardens at 8:00 am, Kumar was observed distributing iron rods from a parked truck to a group of 120 people and ordering them to \"attack Sikhs, kill them, and loot and burn their properties\". During the morning he led a mob along the Palam railway road to Mangolpuri, where the crowd chanted: \"Kill the Sardars\" and \"Indira Gandhi is our mother and these people have killed her\". In Sultanpuri, Moti Singh (a Sikh Congress Party member for 20 years) heard Kumar make the following speech:\n\nThe Central Bureau of Investigation told the court that during the riot, Kumar said that \"not a single Sikh should survive\". The bureau accused Delhi police of keeping its \"eyes closed\" during the riot, which was planned.\n\nIn the Shakarpur neighbourhood, Congress Party leader Shyam Tyagi's home was used as a meeting place for an undetermined number of people. Minister of Information and Broadcasting H. K. L. Bhagat gave money to Boop Tyagi (Tyagi's brother), saying: \"Keep these two thousand rupees for liquor and do as I have told you ... You need not worry at all. I will look after everything.\"\n\nDuring the night of 31 October, Balwan Khokhar (a local Congress Party leader who was implicated in the massacre) held a meeting at Pandit Harkesh's ration shop in Palam. Congress Party supporter Shankar Lal Sharma held a meeting, where he assembled a mob which swore to kill Sikhs, in his shop at 08:30 on 1 November.\n\nKerosene, the primary mob weapon, was supplied by a group of Congress Party leaders who owned filling stations. In Sultanpuri, Congress Party A-4 block president Brahmanand Gupta distributed oil while Sajjan Kumar \"instructed the crowd to kill Sikhs, and to loot and burn their properties\" (as he had done at other meetings throughout New Delhi). Similar meetings were held at locations such as Cooperative Colony in Bokaro, where local Congress president and gas-station owner P. K. Tripathi distributed kerosene to mobs. Aseem Shrivastava, a graduate student at the Delhi School of Economics, described the mobs' organised nature in an affidavit submitted to the Misra Commission:\nA senior official at the Ministry of Home Affairs told journalist Ivan Fera that an arson investigation of several businesses burned in the riots had found an unnamed combustible chemical \"whose provision required large-scale coordination\". Eyewitness reports confirmed the use of a combustible chemical in addition to kerosene. The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee later cited 70 affidavits noting the use of a highly-flammable chemical in its written reports to the Misra Commission.\n\nOn 31 October, Congress Party officials provided assailants with voter lists, school registration forms, and ration lists. The lists were used to find Sikh homes and business, an otherwise-impossible task because they were in unmarked, diverse neighbourhoods. During the night of 31 October, before the massacres began, assailants used the lists to mark Sikh houses with an \"S\". Because most mob members were illiterate, Congress Party officials provided help reading the lists and leading the mobs to Sikh homes and businesses in other neighbourhoods. With the lists, the mobs could pinpoint the location of Sikhs they otherwise would have missed.\n\nSikh men not at home were easily identified by their turbans and beards, and Sikh women were identified by their dress. In some cases, the mobs returned to locations where they knew Sikhs were hiding because of the lists. Amar Singh escaped the initial attack on his house by having a Hindu neighbour drag him into the neighbour's house and announce that he was dead. A group of 18 assailants later came looking for his body; when his neighbour said that his body had been taken away, an assailant showed him a list and said: \"Look, Amar Singh's name has not been struck off from the list, so his body has not been taken away.\"\n\n\n\n\nA curfew is announced in Delhi, but is not enforced. Although the army is deployed throughout the city, the police did not co-operate with soldiers (who are forbidden to fire without the consent of senior police officers and executive magistrates).\n\nBy late evening, army and local police units work together to subdue the violence. After law-enforcement intervention, violence is comparatively mild and sporadic. In Delhi, the bodies of riot victims are brought to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and the Civil Hospital mortuary in Delhi.\n\nThe Delhi High Court, delivering its verdict on a riot-related case in 2009, said:\nThe government allegedly destroyed evidence and shielded the guilty. \"Asian Age\", an Indian daily newspaper, ran a front-page story calling the government actions \"the mother of all cover-ups\".\n\nFrom 31 October 1984 to 10 November 1984 the People's Union for Democratic Rights and the People's Union for Civil Liberties conducted an inquiry into the riots, interviewing victims, police officers, neighbours of the victims, army personnel and political leaders. In their joint report, \"Who Are The Guilty\", the groups concluded:\n\nAccording to eyewitness accounts obtained by \"Time\" magazine, Delhi police looked on as \"rioters murdered and raped, having gotten access to voter records that allowed them to mark Sikh homes with large Xs, and large mobs being bused in to large Sikh settlements\". \"Time\" reported that the riots led to only minor arrests, with no major politicians or police officers convicted. The magazine quoted Ensaaf, an Indian human-rights organisation, as saying that the government attempted to destroy evidence of its involvement by refusing to record First Information Reports.\n\nA 1991 Human Rights Watch report on violence between Sikh separatists and the Government of India traced part of the problem to government response to the violence:\n\nDespite numerous credible eye-witness accounts that identified many of those involved in the violence, including police and politicians, in the months following the killings, the government sought no prosecutions or indictments of any persons, including officials, accused in any case of murder, rape or arson.\n\nThe violence was allegedly led (and often perpetrated) by Indian National Congress activists and sympathizers. The Congress-led government was widely criticised for doing little at the time and possibly conspiring in the riots, since voter lists were used to identify Sikh families.\n\nA few days after the massacre, many surviving Sikh youths in Delhi had joined or created Sikh militant groups. This led to more violence in the Punjab, including the assassination of several senior Congress Party members. The Khalistan Commando Force and Khalistan Liberation Force claimed responsibility for the retaliation, and an underground network was established.\n\nOn 31 July 1985, Harjinder Singh Jinda, Sukhdev Singh Sukha and Ranjit Singh Gill of the Khalistan Commando Force assassinated Congress Party leader and MP Lalit Maken in retaliation for the riots. The 31-page report, \"Who Are The Guilty?\", listed 227 people who led the mobs; Maken was third on the list.\n\nHarjinder Singh Jinda and Sukhdev Singh Sukha assassinated Congress Party leader Arjan Dass because of his involvement in the riots. Dass' name appeared in affidavits submitted by Sikh victims to the Nanavati Commission, headed by retired Supreme Court of India judge G. T. Nanavati.\n\nIn Delhi, 442 rioters were convicted. Forty-nine were sentenced to the life imprisonment, and another three to more than 10 years' imprisonment. Six Delhi police officers were sanctioned for negligence during the riots. In April 2013, the Supreme Court of India dismissed the appeal of three people who had challenged their life sentences. That month, the Karkardooma district court in Delhi convicted five people – Balwan Khokkar (former councillor), Mahender Yadav (former MLA), Kishan Khokkar, Girdhari Lal and Captain Bhagmal – for inciting a mob against Sikhs in Delhi Cantonment. The court acquitted Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, which led to protests.\n\nIn the first ever case of capital punishment in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots case death sentence was awarded to Yashpal Singh convicted for murdering two persons, 24-year old Hardev Singh and 26-year old Avtar Singh, in Mahipal Pur area of Delhi on November 1, 1984. Additional Sessions Judge Ajay Pandey pronounced the Judgement on November 20, 34 years after the crime was committed. The second convict in the case, Naresh Sehrawat was awarded life imprisonment. The Court considered the failing health of 68-year old Sehrawat while giving him a lighter sentence. The conviction followed a complaint by the deceased Hardev Singh's elder brother Santokh Singh. Though an FIR was filed on the same day of the crime nothing came of the case as a Congress leader, JP Singh, who led the mob was acquitted in the case. A fresh FIR was filed on April 29, 1993, following recommendations of the Ranganath Commission of inquiry. The police closed the matter as untraced despite witness testimonies of the deceased's four brothers who were witness to the crime. The case was reopened by the Special Investigation Team constituted by the BJP-led NDA government on February 12, 2015. The SIT completed the investigation in record time.\n\nTen commissions or committees have been formed to investigate the riots. The most recent, headed by Justice G. T. Nanavati, submitted its 185-page report to Home Minister Shivraj Patil on 9 February 2005; the report was tabled in Parliament on 8 August of that year. The commissions below are listed in chronological order. Many of the accused were acquitted or never formally charged.\n\nThe Marwah Commission was appointed in November 1984. Ved Marwah, Additional Commissioner of Police, was tasked with enquiring into the role of the police during the riots. Many of the accused Delhi Police officers were tried in the Delhi High Court. As Marwah was completing his inquiry in mid-1985, he was abruptly directed by the Home Ministry not to proceed further. The Marwah Commission records were appropriated by the government, and most (except for Marwah's handwritten notes) were later given to the Misra Commission.\n\nThe Misra Commission was appointed in May 1985; Justice Rangnath Misra was a judge on the Supreme Court of India. Misra submitted his report in August 1986, and the report was made public in February 1987. In his report, he said that it was not part of his terms of reference to identify any individual and recommended the formation of three committees.\n\nThe commission and its report was criticised as biased by the People's Union for Civil Liberties and Human Rights Watch. According to a Human Rights Watch report on the commission:\n\nIt recommended no criminal prosecution of any individual, and it cleared all high-level officials of directing the pogroms. In its findings, the commission did acknowledge that many of the victims testifying before it had received threats from local police. While the commission noted that there had been \"widespread lapses\" on the part of the police, it concluded that \"the allegations before the commission about the conduct of the police are more of indifference and negligence during the riots than of any wrongful overt act.\"\n\nThe People's Union for Civil Liberties criticised the Misra Commission for concealing information on the accused while disclosing the names and addresses of victims.\n\nThe Kapur Mittal Committee was appointed in February 1987 at the recommendation of the Misra Commission to enquire into the role of the police; the Marwah Commission had almost completed a police inquiry in 1985 when the government asked that committee not to continue. This committee consisted of Justice Dalip Kapur and Kusum Mittal, retired Secretary of Uttar Pradesh. It submitted its report in 1990, and 72 police officers were cited for conspiracy or gross negligence. Although the committee recommended the dismissal of 30 of the 72 officers, none have been punished.\n\nThe Jain Banerjee Committee was recommended by the Misra Commission for the registration of cases. The committee consisted of former Delhi High Court judge M. L. Jain and retired Inspector General of Police A. K. Banerjee.\n\nIn its report, the Misra Commission stated that many cases (particularly those involving political leaders or police officers) had not been registered. Although the Jain Banerjee Committee recommended the registration of cases against Sajjan Kumar in August 1987, no case was registered.\n\nIn November 1987, press reports criticised the government for not registering cases despite the committee's recommendation. The following month, Brahmanand Gupta (accused with Sajjan Kumar) filed a writ petition in the Delhi High Court and obtained a stay of proceedings against the committee which was not opposed by the government. The Citizen's Justice Committee filed an application to vacate the stay. The writ petition was decided in August 1989 and the high court abolished the committee. An appeal was filed by the Citizen's Justice Committee in the Supreme Court of India.\n\nThe Potti Rosha Committee was appointed in March 1990 by the V. P. Singh government as a successor to the Jain Banerjee Committee. In August 1990, the committee issued recommendations for filing cases based on affidavits submitted by victims of the violence; there was one against Sajjan Kumar. When a CBI team went to Kumar's home to file the charges, his supporters held and threatened them if they persisted in pursuing Kumar. When the committee's term expired in September 1990, Potti and Rosha decided to end their inquiry.\n\nThe Jain Aggarwal Committee was appointed in December 1990 as a successor to the Potti Rosha Committee. It consisted of Justice J. D. Jain and retired Uttar Pradesh director general of police D. K. Aggarwal. The committee recommended the registration of cases against H. K. L. Bhagat, Sajjan Kumar, Dharamdas Shastri and Jagdish Tytler.\n\nIt suggested establishing two or three special investigating teams in the Delhi Police under a deputy commissioner of police, supervised by an additional commissioner of police answerable to the CID, and a review of the work-load of the three special courts set up to deal with the riot cases. The appointment of special prosecutors to deal the cases was also discussed. The committee was wound up in August 1993, but the cases it recommended were not registered by the police.\n\nThe Ahuja Committee was the third committee recommended by the Misra Commission to determine the total number of deaths in Delhi. According to the committee, which submitted its report in August 1987, 2,733 Sikhs were killed in the city.\n\nThe Dhillon Committee, headed by Gurdial Singh Dhillon, was appointed in 1985 to recommend measures for the rehabilitation of victims. The committee submitted its report by the end of the year. One major recommendation was that businesses with insurance coverage whose claims were denied should receive compensation as directed by the government. Although the committee recommended ordering the (nationalised) insurance companies to pay the claims, the government did not accept its recommendation and the claims were not paid.\n\nThe Narula Committee was appointed in December 1993 by the Madan Lal Khurana-led BJP government in Delhi. One recommendation of the committee was to convince the central government to impose sanctions.\n\nKhurana took up the matter with the central government, which in the middle of 1994, the Central Government decided that the matter did not fall within its purview and sent the case to the lieutenant governor of Delhi. It took two years for the P. V. Narasimha Rao government to decide that it did not fall within its purview.\n\nThe Narasimha Rao Government further delayed the case. The committee submitted its report in January 1994, recommending the registration of cases against H. K. L. Bhagat and Sajjan Kumar. Despite the central-government delay, the CBI filed the charge sheet in December 1994.\n\nThe Nanavati Commission was established in 2000 after some dissatisfaction was expressed with previous reports. The Nanavati Commission was appointed by a unanimous resolution passed in the Rajya Sabha. This commission was headed by Justice G.T. Nanavati, retired Judge of the Supreme Court of India. The commission submitted its report in February 2004. The commission reported that recorded accounts from victims and witnesses \"indicate that local Congress leaders and workers had either incited or helped the mobs in attacking the Sikhs\". Its report also found evidence against Jagdish Tytler \"to the effect that very probably he had a hand in organising attacks on Sikhs\". It also recommended that Sajjan Kumar's involvement in the rioting required a closer look. The commission's report also cleared Rajiv Gandhi and other high ranking Congress (I) party members of any involvement in organising riots against Sikhs. It did find, however, that the Delhi Police fired about 392 rounds of bullets, arrested approximately 372 persons, and \"remained passive and did not provide protection to the people\" throughout the rioting.\n\nThe Central Bureau of Investigation closed all cases against Jagdish Tytler in November 2007 for his alleged criminal conspiracy to engineer riots against Sikhs in the aftermath of Indira Gandhi's assassination. The bureau submitted a report to the Delhi court that no evidence or witness was found to corroborate allegations that Tytler led murderous mobs during 1984. It was alleged in court that Tytler – then an MP – complained to his supporters about the relatively-\"small\" number of Sikhs killed in his constituency (Delhi Sadar), which he thought had undermined his position in the Congress Party.\n\nIn December 2007 a witness, Dushyant Singh (then living in California), appeared on several private television news channels in India saying that he was never contacted by the CBI. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanded an explanation in Parliament from Minister of State for Personnel Suresh Pachouri, who was in charge of the CBI. Pachouri, who was present, refused to make a statement. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate of the Delhi Court Sanjeev Jain, who had dismissed the case against Tytler after the CBI submitted a misleading report, ordered the CBI to reopen cases against Tytler related to the riots on 18 December 2007.\n\nIn December 2008 a two-member CBI team went to New York to record statements from Jasbir Singh and Surinder Singh, two eyewitnesses. The witnesses said that they saw Tytler lead a mob during the riot, but did not want to return to India because they feared for their safety. They blamed the CBI for not conducting a fair trial, accusing the bureau of protecting Tytler.\n\nIn March 2009, the CBI cleared Tytler amidst protests from Sikhs and the opposition parties. On 7 April, Sikh \"Dainik Jagran\" reporter Jarnail Singh threw his shoe at Home Minister P. Chidambaram to protest the clearing of Tytler and Sajjan Kumar. Because of the upcoming Lok Sabha elections, Chidambaram did not press charges.\n\nTwo days later, over 500 protesters from Sikh organisations throughout India gathered outside the court which was scheduled to hear the CBI's plea to close the case against Tytler. Later in the day, Tytler announced that he was withdrawing from the Lok Sabha elections to avoid embarrassing his party. This forced the Congress Party to cut the Tytler and Sajjan Kumar Lok Sabha tickets.\n\nOn 10 April 2013, the Delhi court ordered the CBI to reopen the 1984 case against Tytler. The court ordered the bureau to investigate the killing of three people in the riot case, of which Tytler had been cleared.\n\nSikhs for Justice, a U.S.-based NGO, filed a civil suit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on 14 March 2011 accusing the Indian government of complicity in the riots. The court issued a summons to the Congress Party and Kamal Nath, who was accused by the Nanavati commission of encouraging rioters. The complaint against Nath was dismissed in March 2012 by Judge Robert W. Sweet, who ruled that the court lacked jurisdiction in the case. The 22-page order granted Nath's motion to dismiss the claim, with Sweet noting that Sikhs for Justice failed to \"serve the summons and its complaints to Nath in an appropriate and desired manner\". On 3 September 2013, a federal court in New York issued a summons to Sonia Gandhi for her alleged role in protecting participants in the riots. A U.S. court dismissed the lawsuit against Gandhi on 11 July 2014.\n\nAccording to an April 2014 \"Cobrapost\" sting operation, the government muzzled the Delhi Police during the riots. Messages were broadcast directing the police not to act against rioters, and the fire brigade would not go to areas where cases of arson were reported.\n\nIn January 2018, the Supreme Court of India decided to form a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) of its own to probe 186 cases related to 1984 anti-Sikh riots that were not further investigated by Union Government formed SIT. This SIT would consists of a former High court judge, a former IPS officer whose rank is not less than or equivalent to Inspector General and a serving IPS Officer.\n\nOn 12 August 2005, Manmohan Singh apologised in the Lok Sabha for the riots. The riots are cited as a reason to support the creation of a Sikh homeland in India, often called Khalistan.\n\nMany Indians of different religions made significant efforts to hide and help Sikh families during the rioting. The Sikh Jathedar declared the events following the death of Indira Gandhi a Sikh \"genocide\", replacing \"anti-Sikh riots\" widely used by the Indian government, the media and writers, on 15 July 2010. The decision came soon after a similar motion was raised in the Canadian Parliament by a Sikh MP. Although several political parties and governments have promised compensation for the families of riot victims, compensation has not yet been paid.\n\nOn 16 April 2015, Assembly Concurrent Resolution 34 (ACR 34) was passed by the California State Assembly. Co-authored by Sacramento-area assembly members Jim Cooper, Kevin McCarty, Jim Gallagher and Ken Cooley, the resolution criticized the Government of participating in and failure to prevent the killings. The assembly called the killings a \"genocide\", as it led to the destruction of many Sikh lives and businesses.\" In April 2017, the Ontario Legislature passed a motion condemning the anti-Sikh riots as \"genocide\". The Indian government lobbied against the motion and condemned it upon its adoption. In February 2018, American state of Connecticut, passed a bill stating, November 30th of each year to be \"Sikh Genocide\" Remembrance Day to remember the lives lost on November 30, 1984, during the Sikh Genocide.\n\nThe Delhi riots have been the subject of several films and novels:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10348349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10348349", "title": "Adultcentrism", "text": "Adultcentrism\n\nAdultcentrism is the exaggerated egocentrism of adults, including the belief that an adult perspective is inherently better (when compared to children). It is used to describe the conditions facing children and youth in schools, homes, and community settings; however, adultcentrism is not always based on a notion of being good or bad, in contrast to adultism.\n\nIn social work, adultcentrism has been recognized as the potential bias adults have in understanding and responding to children. This bias is said to extend from the difference in age between the child and the adult. The differences—including language, communication styles and world view—can create a hurdle to overcome. Rather than allowing the adult to simply share their view, adultcentrism acknowledges the powerlessness and inability of young people to actually affect the systems of authority adults have created. This creates barriers to effective practice with children; adultcentrism is said to be akin to egocentrism, where one puts their personal perspectives, needs and beliefs ahead of all others, as well as ethnocentrism, which places a person's cultural and social beliefs ahead of all others. Explaining adultcentrism, one author reports,\n\nIn the field of occupational therapy adultcentrism has been said to \"lead researchers to underestimate children's abilities.\" According to one researcher, \"This stance can be seen when researchers assume they know everything they need to know about children because they have been children.\" Research has also shown this leads adults to stay within their own perspective, thus discriminating against children through adultism. In respect to occupational therapy, \"Adultcentrism has emerged in the family therapy literature to describe the tendency by adults to view the world from an adult perspective and in so doing not understand or appreciate how children and young people are viewing things.\"\n\nAdultcentrism is also growing in importance in the fields of education, mental health, community sociology, and children's empowerment One international affairs specialist reflects that,\n\nFrom this notion \"education leaders, teachers, school board members and reform advocates... call for the same improvements, the same tasks, and the same accountabilities that have been always called for; increased standardization, decreased student motivation, and increased teacher attrition.\"\n\nA growing number of youth empowerment organizations and identify adultcentrism as central to their analysis, as well. One such organization, the National Youth Rights Association, identifies that adultcentrism causes society to,\n"}
{"id": "39352815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39352815", "title": "Afrapix", "text": "Afrapix\n\nAfrapix was a collective agency of amateur and professional photographers who opposed Apartheid in South Africa and documented South Africa in the 1980s. The group was established in 1982 and dissolved itself in 1991.\n\nAfrapix was independently funded by its members, who were both black and white. The group received both national and international feedback, as their photographs were used across the world. Oxfam used photographs by a number of Afrapix members to illustrate their 1990 publication 'We Cry for our Land: Farmworkers in South Africa', and some Afrapix pictures were also used in Oxfam's 'Front Line Africa: The Right to a Future' (1990). Afrapix members photographed their own projects and also conducted workshops in black communities that focused on photography and literacy through artwork. Afrapix members shared their technical knowledge while mentoring individuals in these areas.\n\nAs the period was known as the “struggle years,” the photographs and projects produced through Afrapix were labeled as “struggle photography.” Many of the photographers considered themselves political activists or had a political agenda, and worked to raise awareness about the evils of apartheid. The various artists of Afrapix agreed that they were a team working against apartheid, but that their inspirations came from different places.\n\nMany of the images were of rallies or protests, instances of authority brutality, and impoverished areas. Kylie Thomas suggests that the history of social documentary photography in the Afrapix period is probably more complex and heterogenous than often suggested, especially when analysing the work of women photographers such as Gille De Vlieg and Gisèle Wulfsohn.\n\nA detailed timeline of Afrapix is accessible at the SA History Online website.\n\nPaul Weinberg, one of the co-founders of Afrapix, said that Afrapix aimed to be \"an agency and a picture library and to stimulate documentary photography\" (see 'Art and the End of Apartheid', Peffer, 2009, p.254) and also set this in the context of the day:\nphotography can't be divorced from the political, social issues that surround us daily. As photographers we are inextricably caught up in those processes-we are not objective instruments but play a part in the way we choose to make our statements.\n\nJoseph Alfers,\nPeter Auf de Hyder,\nOmar Badsha,\nSteve Hilton Barber,\nGille de Vlieg,\nGraham Goddard,\nDave Hartman,\nLesley Lawson,\nChris Ledochowski,\nJohn Liebenberg,\nHerbert Mabuza,\nHumphrey Phakade \"Pax\" Magwaza,\nKentridge Matabatha,\nRafique Mayet,\nMxolise Mayo,\nVuyi Lesley Mbalo,\nPeter McKenzie,\nRoger Meintjies,\nEric Miller,\nSantu Mofokeng,\nDeseni Moodliar,\nCedric Nunn,\nBilly Paddock,\nBiddy Partridge,\nMyron Peters,\nJeeva Rajgopaul,\nWendy Schwegmann,\nCecil Sols,\nGuy Tillim,\nZubeida Vallie,\nPaul Weinberg,\nGisèle Wulfsohn,\nAnna Zieminski\n\nThe photographers put themselves at risk each time they worked, given that authority figures might beat or even shoot them. \n\nWhile working in townships, their works were confiscated at times. The facilities of some Afrapix members were pillaged. Surveillance by Security Police made situations difficult. Photographers could also be detained extralegally.\n\nSince there was no single person or persons in charge of Afrapix, there were contrasts of perspectives and ideas amongst the members. Due to this, disagreements occurred and the eventual split between the more political side and the individual documentary side, which would later be called Southlight.\n\nThere were also many criticisms of the Afrapix movement. It was viewed negatively by some who thought the group only showed black Africans as powerless. Various Afrapix photographers themselves said they felt pressured to fulfill stereotypes through their images.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36965579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36965579", "title": "Agricultural and Rural Convention 2020", "text": "Agricultural and Rural Convention 2020\n\nAgricultural and Rural Convention 2020 (ARC2020) describes itself as \"a multi-stakeholder platform of over 150 civil society networks and organisations within 22 EU Member States all pushing for a reform of the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy (CAP)\". It has carried out several campaigns to raise awareness among citizens and the political world on the current situation of European agriculture, such as the Good Food March.\n\nFounded in 2010, ARC2020 is the result of the work of Groupe de Bruges, a European think tank specializing in agriculture and rural development, a European network of local projects in sustainable rural development called Forum Synergies, and the European School for Journalists called Institut des hautes études des communications sociales (IHECS). It is funded by various European foundations.\n\nARC2020 states that its main goals are:\n\nIt claims to represent diverse issues and interests from nature protection, human health and animal welfare, to development cooperation, global justice and climate change, as well as those of conventional and organic farmers and rural development networks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11854437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11854437", "title": "Antigonish Movement", "text": "Antigonish Movement\n\nThe Antigonish Movement blended adult education, co-operatives, microfinance and rural community development to help small, resource-based communities around Canada’s Maritimes improve their economic and social circumstances. A group of priests and educators, including Father Jimmy Tompkins, Father Moses Coady, Rev. Hugh MacPherson and A.B. MacDonald led this movement from a base at the \"Extension Department\" at St. Francis Xavier University (St. F.X.) in Antigonish, Nova Scotia.\n\nThe credit union systems of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and PEI owe their origins to the Antigonish Movement, which also had an important influence on other provincial systems across Canada. The Coady International Institute at St. F.X. has been instrumental in developing credit unions and in asset-based community development initiatives in developing countries ever since.\n\nAs educators and priests, the leaders of the Antigonish Movement were primarily concerned with human and spiritual development. The title of Moses Coady’s only book – \"Masters of Their Own Destiny\" – encapsulates this desire to see ordinary Nova Scotians achieve economic and social freedom.\n\nHowever Coady argued that for practical reasons \"we consider it good pedagogy and good psychology to begin with the economic phase ... that we may more readily attain the spiritual and cultural towards which all our efforts are directed.\"\n\nOrdinary Nova Scotians he argued, had only themselves to blame for their poverty and vulnerability. They had permitted money and business to become mysterious forces outside of their control. Fishers and farmers for example, were exploited by marketing middlemen. Everyone was exploited by moneylenders. If they took the time to understand their circumstances and took the risks of co-operative action, they could achieve economic security and on that foundation greater freedom and self-realization. In a vision that has been renewed today in digital forms of mass collaboration, Coady argued that \"the only hope of democracy is that enough noble, independent, energetic souls may be found who are prepared to work overtime, without pay\" in order to shape a free and prosperous society.\n\nThe origins of co-operatives in Nova Scotia go back to a cooperative store in Stellarton, founded in 1861. Co-operative creameries and fruit-growers co-ops were established by farmers to free them from exploitative middleman in the 1890s. Many early co-ops failed due to \"poor management, domination by a few individuals and a lack of ongoing education.\"\n\nHowever, the \"British Canadian Co-operative Society\", a co-op store in Sydney Mines, Nova Scotia, set an example of sound co-operation. By 1917 it has 1,220 members and over $500,000 in sales. That year, it organized a conference on co-ops. The conference, which featured Ontario co-operative pioneer George Keen as keynote speaker, renewed local energy and enthusiasm for the idea.\n\nAdult education was the spirit of the movement, and Coady credits Dr. Hugh MacPherson and Rev. Jimmy Tompkins at St. F.X. with their early roles as \"pioneer extension workers at the University interested in both adult education and economic cooperation.\"\n\nFather Jimmy Tompkins played a key role in concocting the \"intellectual dynamite\" that was later set off in almost every village in the Maritimes.\n\nTompkins began teaching at St. F.X. in 1902. As vice-president of the university he attended the \"Conference of British Empire Universities\" in London, England in 1912, and returned filled with ideas for ways that the university could become more involved in solving rural economic problems through adult education. British Workers Educational Associations, the Danish Folk High Schools, and Swedish Study Circles particularly interested him. And in Canada, the University of Saskatchewan's agricultural program, and Quebec's agricultural colleges and credit unions, caught his attention.\n\nTompkins had trouble making his case with the university’s administration, and in 1922, St. F.X. sent Tompkins into \"exile\" as village priest in Canso, Nova Scotia. This did not slow the determined priest down, however. His approach to adult education in Canso triggered local action and a series of articles in \"The Halifax Chronicle\" which helped trigger a federal commission into the problems of the Maritime fisheries.\n\nBeginning in 1924 Tompkins organized the first of a series of annual conferences bringing together farmers, educators, students, priests and rural development experts. In 1928, seeking a more permanent organization, some of the leaders in this group launched a campaign that raised $100,000. This initiative, combined with the report of federal commission on the fisheries in 1928, prompted St. F.X. to support the formation of an Extension Department in 1928.\n\nMoses Coady is generally credited with transforming the vision of his cousin Tompkins into an effective program capable of spreading across the Maritimes.\n\nThe defining moment in Coady's career came when he testified before a Canadian government commission in 1927. Drawing on his own experience and that of other movement leaders he maintained that the local economy could be revitalized if the right type of learning was cultivated in ordinary people: especially critical thinking, scientific methods of planning and production, and co-operative entrepreneurship.\n\nThe report of the MacLean Commission was catalytic: in late 1928 St. F.X. organized an Extension Department to carry adult education to the people of the province, appointing Coady as its first director. The Canadian Department of Fisheries asked Coady to help the government \"organize the fishermen\".\n\nCoady also invested considerable energy in catalyzing and strengthening wholesale co-operatives around the Maritimes: including the \"United Maritime Fishermen\", the \"United Fruit Companies\" and the \"Canadian Livestock Co-operatives\" (Maritimes).\n\nThe Antigonish program of adult education employed three main components:\n\nThe field staff of the Extension Department worked with local people to organize meetings in schools, churches, and community centres.\n\nPeople who heard Coady speak at these meetings described his speeches as \"fiery\" and \"energizing\". Coady challenged his audience not to accept their poverty but to take action to understand their situation, and then to think and to plan to change it. As he said many times, \"You can get the good life. You’re poor enough to want it and smart enough to get it.\" He would propose that they set up study clubs, and that those who could read help those who could not.\n\nStudy clubs typically met in members' homes, with the goal of understanding the factors keeping the members poor, to identify solutions, make plans, and take action. The Extension Department provided pamphlets and technical material on matters like agricultural methods, business organization, economics, and co-operative principles. The clubs studied local newspaper articles and any other materials that could help them understand their situation better.\n\nThe leaders and ideas emerging from this process often carried it into the next stage – organizing co-operatives and taking other initiatives to solve local problems.\n\nThe Extension Department linked the study clubs together through a network called the \"Associated Study Clubs\", which facilitated information sharing and capitalized on the building momentum.\n\nOnce the first co-operatives began, the Extension Department organized a six-week program at the university with courses in co-operative business, book-keeping, mathematics, economics, public speaking, and citizenship.\n\nThe program was taught by successful co-operative leaders from around the province. The goal was to reduce the risks of business failure, and to invigorate the momentum in each community with fresh ideas.\n\nThe program was taken to the villages by Coady and A.B. MacDonald. Roy Bergengren, director of Credit Union National of America, dedicated his book, \"Credit Union North America\" to A.B. MacDonald, who he describes as \"an extraordinary organizer and an inspired leader who is known in every city, town and fishing hamlet throughout the length and breadth of the province\". MacDonald went on to direct the Nova Scotia Credit Union League and then the Co-operative Union of Canada.\n\nCoady's biographer Jim Lotz gives an example of how the link between the Antigonish approach, community development and co-operatives worked in the village of Judique, Nova Scotia.\n\nBy 1932 the Extension Department had sparked the formation of 179 study clubs with 1,500 members in Nova Scotia. Over the next six years, during the height of Coady and MacDonald's work in the villages, the number of study clubs rose to 1,110 with 10,000 participants.\n\nBy 1938 these study clubs had formed 142 credit unions, 39 co-operative stores, 17 co-operative lobster factories, 11 co-operative fish plants, and 11 other co-ops.\n\n\"Perhaps the most important reason why the Antigonish movement was able to have a significant, lasting impact was its promotion of credit unions.\" The farmers, fishers, and miners who formed the backbone of the movement had little access to credit before the Great Depression, and lost what little they had as the downturn started to bite. With the help of Roy Bergengren and the American credit union movement, Nova Scotia passed the first sound credit union legislation in English Canada in 1932.\n\nFrom its start in 1928, the Extension Department at St. Francis Xavier University was concerned with spreading its message well beyond Nova Scotia. It was particularly concerned about the other provinces in the Maritimes.\n\nFor example, by 1936 there were 200 study clubs operating in New Brunswick, and the legislature passed a credit union law that year. Wilfred Keohan, the New Brunswick Registrar of Credit Unions, wrote in 1939 that \"There can be no doubt but that the experience in Nova Scotia had a marked influence as credit union enthusiasm knows no frontiers. The crystallized demand came from such bodies as the \"New Brunswick Council of Labour\", the \"Trades & Labour Council\", the \"Farmer's and Dairyman's Association\", fishermen's organizations and members of the clergy who saw in credit unions an economic regeneration of their flocks.\" By 1939 ten thousand members were participating in 95 credit unions (including caisses populaires) in the province.\n\nBy 1936 Coady and MacDonald were increasingly traveling beyond the Maritimes to Ontario, Saskatchewan and British Columbia, where their speeches and ideas helped ignite local credit union movements. After Nova Scotia passed a credit union law in 1932, New Brunswick and PEI were the next to pass legislation (1936). By 1939 every province in Canada had a credit union movement and a legal framework to guide it.\n\nBergengren wrote in 1940 that \"out of the Nova Scotia experience has come a new and most valuable study club technique that will have a far reaching effect on the whole future of the credit union movement.\" He credited the rapid expansion of credit unions to other provinces across Canada to the Antigonish movement.\n\nThe Board of Governors of St. Francis Xavier University established The Coady International Institute to honour Moses Coady less than six months after his death. The institute has played a role in the emergence of credit unions throughout the world, especially in Africa. Since then, over 7,000 community development practitioners from over 120 countries have studied at the campus in Antigonish.\n\nBy the end of World War II the credit unions and co-operatives of the Maritimes were an acknowledged success, gaining international recognition. The study clubs for which the movement was noted declined however, and attention had shifted from human emancipation towards building stronger, more professional institutions. \"Most of the educational attainment in the war and its aftermath focused on training elite managers for the co-operative institutions. Evidence from the co-operative reports of the 1940s indicates clearly that the common people were not participating very much in the life of their institutions.\"\n\nLike many of the integrated rural development programs in the developing world today, the Antigonish Movement encountered a grass-roots challenge to its vision in the implementation stage. In the end, the grand vision of fishers and miners appreciating Shakespeare and grand opera seemed to usually lead to one community project: co-operative microfinance through credit unions.\n\nDr. Ian MacPherson, a co-operative historian and theorist, argues that most co-operative movements are dependent for their early impetus on the support of networks of external players like church groups, government departments or wealthy patrons. As the movement begins to transform into a credit union system, \"... necessary managerial and technical changes may be inhibited by the \"founders\": revered individuals who have made great contributions but who, as they age and the institution they helped found develops, may hold back necessary change and new generations of leadership.\" \n\nNova Scotia's credit union system, springing from the centre of the Antigonish Movement, today has a far lower penetration of members (18%) than the systems in neighbouring New Brunswick (41%) and Prince Edward Island (45%).\n\nCoady acknowledged that the credit unions were promoting thrift and household budgeting, and showing members by example how much money they could bring to bear on their communities’ problems through co-operative action. But to him, the main purpose of credit unions was moral. The credit union \"makes people honest\". \"There have been a few instances of dishonest managers and some slow borrowers, but the credit union organization takes care of these cases.\"\n\nIn other parts of Canada, most notably Quebec, Saskatchewan and Manitoba where some of the strongest credit union systems emerged, the movement's early leaders recognized the need to address the practical problems that emerged from the demand for credit unions. Innovations like the Saskatchewan Mutual Aid Board – the first private sector deposit insurance scheme in Canada – focused on protecting the savings of members. These practical innovations, grounded in addressing the practical needs of members, led to stronger and more sustained institutional growth.\n\nThe study club successfully addressed one of the enduring challenges of co-operative development. Co-operative enterprises address the principal–agent problem by making all users of an enterprise into owners. When users accept the duties of owners, this structure results in strong governance and control systems. However, the assets in co-operative enterprises are vulnerable when the users aren’t prepared to accept the duties of ownership. In a paper for the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in 1962, Alexander Laidlaw, a co-operative leader who served as a director at the Extension Department, wrote that:\n\nAntigonish-style study clubs, unlike traditional seminars or workshops, require all members to collectively manage a group process even before they launch a co-operative. Members can take a hard look at each other’s capabilities and weigh their collective prospects with a clear head while they learn the skills they need to launch community ventures.\n\nBy the end of World War II a series of leaders from Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen to Edward Filene to Alphonse Desjardins to Moses Coady had shown that cooperative movements could reach and empower poor populations in a way that deepened the economic gains of capitalism while alleviating some of its undesirable social effects. This prepared the way for a wave of ‘anti-communist’ co-operative development led by the US government in the developing world in the 1940-60s. For precisely the reasons just noted, however, the results of this 'state-led' credit union development were mixed at best.\n\nThe philosophy and techniques of Antigonish anticipated some of the key ideas of rural development, including the emancipatory pedagogy of Paulo Freire, and the philosophy of Robert Chambers/participatory rural assessment. However, the Antigonish approach runs into significant problems in oral communities and those with anti-democratic traditions. This has limited the replicability of the movement, and led to significant offshoots, such as the self-help group movement in India, village banking and the ASCA movement in parts of Africa.\n\nIn our current times, Coady International Institute has continued to promote and support people owned institutions around the world through its leadership programs. The idea of 'collectives' managing their finances or enterprises have taken many new shapes in modern times. Self-Help Groups (SHGs) - small group of 10-20 members, mostly women, have become very popular and wide spread particularly in India but also elsewhere with an estimated 110 million members; while another similar small group managed system called Village Savings and Loan Association (VSLAs) have become popular particularly across the continent of Africa with over 10 million members. These small groups managed and governed financial services are similar in idea to the Study Clubs of Antigonish movement, and avoid the possible negative outcomes of Credit Unions becoming more corporate and moving away from members' active participation and control. These small group models are particularly popular among women, perhaps as they face barriers in joining even the local cooperatives with men as dominant members. These informal groups have become immensely popular, often coming together to form 'federations' for greater collective bargaining power and reaching economies of scale, essentially becoming and behaving like formal cooperative.\n\nNon-financial cooperatives - such as fishermen coop or farmers coops of the Antigonish movement, continue to provide an alternative economic model the world over despite rise of private sector led economic growth, especially for small producers and farmers in accessing markets and negotiating prices collectively. Within Maritimes though, such cooperatives seem to have given way to more individual enterprises that operate more as 'association' rather than collective business, but continuing to have a very close sense of 'community' and collective identity - be it lobster fishers or dairy farmers. Newer form of economic enterprises of recent times are also generally termed as 'social enterprises' - with dual objective of profit and socially responsible and positive outcomes. Such enterprises don't always have collective ownership, but almost always have a sense of 'community' well-being. Investment Cooperatives are yet another form of collective enterprise, often getting formed to finance a community based enterprise such as alternative energy coop or local-food marketing coop. Shared-economy is yet another form of new wave idea that borrows from same coop principle of community sharing an economy more inclusively; though the potential conflict between the private and corporate profit v/s community benefiting collectively continues to be an ongoing debate; a debate that Antigonish Movement challenged in 1920 and 1930s, and seem to go through in cyclical fashion ever-since. Societies are once again at cross-roads for balancing between individual and corporate wealth, group / cooperative enterprises, and more shared-economies where everyone can share benefits. Legacy and lessons from the Antigonish Movement continue to be relevant in our modern times.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9700447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9700447", "title": "Association for Politics and the Life Sciences", "text": "Association for Politics and the Life Sciences\n\nThe Association for Politics and the Life Sciences (APLS) was formed in 1981 and exists to study the field of biopolitics as a subfield of political science. APLS owns and publishes an academic peer-reviewed journal, called \"Politics and the Life Sciences\" (PLS), semi-annually in March and September. The journal is edited at Indiana University at Bloomington.\n\n"}
{"id": "922877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=922877", "title": "Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now", "text": "Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now\n\nThe Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN) was a collection of community-based organizations in the United States and internationally that advocated for low- and moderate-income families by working on neighborhood safety, voter registration, health care, affordable housing, and other social issues. At its peak ACORN had over 500,000 members and more than 1,200 neighborhood chapters in over 100 cities across the U.S., as well as in Argentina, Canada, Mexico, and Peru. ACORN was founded in 1970 by Wade Rathke and Gary Delgado.\n\nACORN conducted voter registration drives, and worked to remove systemic barriers to registration of low and working-class voters. The Republican Party regularly alleged that it committed voter fraud, but few cases have been found or prosecuted. The organization conducted its own audits and cooperated with investigations of employees, referring some cases to law enforcement.\n\nACORN suffered an extremely damaging nationwide controversy beginning in the fall of 2009 after two conservative activists, James O'Keefe and Hannah Giles, secretly made and released videos of interactions with low-level ACORN personnel in several of their offices, portraying the personnel as encouraging criminal behavior. Multiple investigations on the federal, state, and county level found that the released tapes were selectively edited to portray ACORN as negatively as possible, and that nothing in the videos warranted criminal charges against ACORN or its employees, though the confidential recording of the tapes violated privacy laws in Maryland and California. In the meantime, however, the organization suffered an immediate loss of funding from government agencies with which it had contracts, and from private donors.\n\nThe loss of funds had been too damaging, and by March 2010, 15 of ACORN's 30 state chapters had already closed. ACORN announced it was closing its remaining state chapters and disbanding. On November 2, 2010 its U.S. offices filed for Chapter 7 liquidation effectively closing the organization.\n\nACORN members and organizers formed new organizations in at least three states.\n\nACORN was composed of a number of legally distinct nonprofit entities and affiliates including a nationwide umbrella organization established as a 501(c)(4) that performed lobbying; local chapters established as 501(c)(3) nonpartisan charities; and the national nonprofit and nonstock organization, ACORN Housing Corporation.\nACORN's priorities included: better housing and wages for the poor, more community development investment from banks and governments, better public schools, labor-oriented causes and social justice issues. ACORN pursued these goals through demonstration, negotiation, lobbying for legislation, and voter participation.\n\nACORN investigated complaints against companies accused of predatory lending practices. ACORN also worked to support strict state laws against predatory practices, organized against foreclosure rescue scams, and steered borrowers toward loan counseling; Following a three-year campaign, Household International (now owned by HSBC Holdings and renamed HSBC Finance Corporation), one of the largest subprime lenders in the country, and ACORN announced on November 25, 2003 a proposed settlement of a 2002 national class-action lawsuit brought by ACORN. The settlement created a $72 million foreclosure avoidance program to provide relief to household borrowers who were at risk of losing their homes. The settlement came on the heels of an earlier $484 million settlement between Household, Attorneys General, and bank regulators from all 50 U.S. states.\n\nACORN and its affiliates advocated for affordable housing by urging the development, rehabilitation and establishment of housing trust funds at the local, state, and federal levels. The group also pushed for enforcement of affordable-housing requirements for developers and promoted programs to help homeowners repair their homes and organize tenant demands. An ACORN official voiced support for a proposal Hillary Clinton made during the 2008 presidential primary election to create a federal fund for distressed homeowners.\n\nLiving wage ordinances require private businesses that do business with the government to pay their workers a wage that enables them to afford basic necessities. ACORN has helped pass local living wage laws in 15 cities including Chicago, New Westminster, British Columbia, Oakland, Denver, and New York City. ACORN maintained a website that provides strategic and logistical assistance on this issue to organizations nationwide.\n\nACORN members across the country, particularly in the Gulf region, organized fund-raising and organizing drives to ensure that victims of Hurricane Katrina received assistance and will be able to return to affected areas. ACORN's home clean-out demonstration program has gutted and rebuilt over 1,850 homes with the help of volunteers. The ACORN Katrina Survivors Association formed in the aftermath of the storm is the first nationwide organization for Katrina survivors and has been working for equitable treatment for victims. Displaced citizens were bused into the city for the New Orleans primary and general elections. By October 2007, ACORN said its Housing Services had helped more than 2,000 homeowners affected by the storm. The non-profit was officially working with the city on reconstruction.\n\nACORN supported education reform, usually in the form of organizing neighborhood groups and \"community\" or \"ACORN schools\". In Chicago, ACORN has advocated for a certified teacher to be in every classroom. In California, ACORN has documented the need for textbooks and school repairs. ACORN works with teachers unions to gain funding for school construction and more funding for schools. ACORN also supports school reform and the \"creation of alternative public schools\" such as charter schools. ACORN opposed the privatization of some NYC schools, favoring its own Charter School plan. The ACORN model for schools emphasizes small classes, parent involvement, qualified teachers and \"community-oriented curricula\".\n\nSince the 1980s, ACORN has conducted large-scale voter registration drives, focusing primarily on registering poor and minority citizens. During the 2008 election season, ACORN gathered over 1.3 million voter registration forms in 21 states. Some of these registration forms were flagged by ACORN's internal auditors for review by election officials. Project Vote estimated that 400,000 registrations collected by ACORN were ultimately rejected, the vast majority for being duplicate registrations submitted by citizens. (This is also a common problem at government voter registration services, according to reports on the National Voter Registration Act by the U.S. Election Assistance Commission). An unknown number of registrations were fraudulent, but Project Vote estimated that only a few percent were, based on past years and samples from some drives in 2008. No official in states where voter registration drives were conducted has documented substantial numbers of fraudulent registrations. Project Vote estimated that 450,000 of the registrations collected by ACORN represented first-time voters, while the remainder were address changes submitted by citizens updating their addresses.\n\nAs required by law in most states, ACORN must submit all registration forms collected by its workers, including those flagged by ACORN as incomplete or suspicious. Fraudulent voter registrations are investigated at local, state, and federal levels, and have sometimes resulted in criminal convictions for ACORN employees. ACORN has fired employees for fraudulent registration practices and turned them over to authorities. As of 2006, ACORN was improving its fraud detection and reporting procedures, and cooperating with authorities in efforts to prosecute violators. Jeff Ordower, ACORN's Midwest Director, observed, \"There is no scenario where those people on problematic cards would show up at the polls.\" Of 26,513 registrations submitted by ACORN over a nine-month period in San Diego County, California, 4,655 were initially flagged, but 2,806 of those were later validated. County officials said this resulted in a 7% error rate by ACORN, compared to usually less than 5% for voter drives by other organizations.\n\nIn a 2007 case in Washington state, in which seven temporary employees of ACORN were charged with submitting fraudulent voter registrations, ACORN agreed to pay King County $25,000 for its investigative costs and acknowledged that the national organization could be subject to criminal prosecution if fraud occurs again. According to the prosecutor, the misconduct was done \"as an easy way to get paid [by ACORN], not as an attempt to influence the outcome of elections.\" \nIn August 2008, ACORN caught, fired and reported employees Maria Miles and Kevin Clancy of Milwaukee, who later pleaded guilty to repeatedly registering the names of the same registered voters. In May 2009, six ACORN employees in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, pleaded guilty to charges of a combined total of 51 counts of forgery and other violations while registering voters during the 2008 election cycle.\n\nIn plea deals in a 2009 Las Vegas case, former ACORN field director Amy Busefink and ACORN official Christopher Edwards pleaded guilty to \"conspiracy to commit the crime of compensation for registration of voters,\" in connection with a quota system for paid registration staff. Edwards was sentenced to a year's probation and agreed to testify for prosecutors in charges against ACORN and against Busefink. Busefink appealed her case to the Nevada Supreme Court, challenging the constitutionality of the statute. In April 2011, ACORN entered a guilty plea to one count of felony compensation for registration of voters, for which they were fined $5000, but did not concede that the law was constitutional.\n\nIn addition to conducting voter registration drives, ACORN has worked to remove systemic obstacles to voter registration. In 2006, it brought a lawsuit in federal court in Ohio against the Ohio Secretary of State, at that time Ken Blackwell, and the Director of the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services. ACORN alleged that, during the period that included the 2004 United States election voting controversies, the defendants had committed multiple violations of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993. The district court dismissed the case, but that decision was reversed in 2008 by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. After extensive fact discovery in 2009, the parties agreed to a settlement, under which the defendants agreed to implement several measures to facilitate registration of low-income voters to bring the state into compliance with the National Voting Rights Act. The \"Dayton Daily News\" characterized the settlement as \"accepting the thrust of [ACORN's] complaint.\"\n\nIn 2006, ACORN intervened on behalf of Jersey City, New Jersey, in a lawsuit brought against the city challenging a local ordinance that limited individuals' handgun purchases to one gun a month. The Hudson County Superior Court struck down the ordinance on the grounds that it violated the New Jersey Constitution's Equal Protection clause, and a state statute prohibiting towns and municipalities from enacting firearms legislation. On September 29, 2008, the New Jersey Superior Court Appellate Division denied ACORN's appeal of the Hudson County Superior Court's decision striking down Jersey City's ordinance.\n\nIn 2009, ACORN advocated allowing homeowners delinquent in their mortgage payments to remain in their homes pending a government solution to the housing foreclosure crisis. ACORN introduced a program called the Home Defender Program, intended to mobilize people to congregate at homes faced with foreclosure to \"defend a family's right to stay in their homes.\" One ACORN Web page advocated civil disobedience against foreclosure evictions stating that people in foreclosed homes should refuse to leave, and in some cases, move back in.\n\nWade Rathke founded ACORN in 1970, after the National Welfare Rights Organization (NWRO) sent him to Little Rock, Arkansas, as an organizer. Rathke had previously dropped out of Williams College to promote draft resistance for Students for a Democratic Society. Gary Delgado and George Wiley were also instrumental in its founding. ACORN's first campaign was to help welfare recipients attain their basic needs, such as clothing and furniture. This drive, inspired by a clause in the Arkansas welfare laws, began their effort to create and sustain a movement to assist welfare and lower-income working individuals; they developed the Arkansas Community Organizations for Reform Now, the beginnings of ACORN.\n\nACORN's goal was to \"unite welfare recipients with needy working people around issues such as school lunches, unemployment, Vietnam veterans' rights, and emergency room care.\"\n\nIn 1975, ACORN created branches in Texas and South Dakota. On December 13, 1975, sixty leaders from the three ACORN states elected the first associate Executive Board and the first ACORN president, Steve McDonald, to deal with matters beyond the scope of the individual city and state boards. Each year thereafter ACORN chapters were established in three or more states, building to a total of 20 states represented by 1980. This expansion led to multi-state campaigns, beginning with a mass meeting of 1,000 members in Memphis in 1978. At the end of the conference, ACORN convention delegates marched on the Democratic Party conference with the outline of a nine-point \"People's Platform.\" When ratified in 1979, this became the foundation of ACORN's platform.\n\nACORN was active in the 1980 Election with the \"People's Platform\" serving as its standard. It led demonstrations aimed at both major party candidates; demanded to meet with President Jimmy Carter; marched on the president's campaign finance committee chair's home; and presented its platform to the Republican Party platform committee.\n\nBy 1980, ACORN's staff was stretched thin by the demands of meeting its expansion goals. Much of its resources and energy had been dedicated to the presidential primaries and national party conventions. ACORN launched squatting campaigns in an attempt to obtain affordable housing, and encouraged squatters to refit the premises for comfortable living.\n\nIn June 1982, ACORN sponsored \"Reagan Ranches\" in Washington, DC and more than 35 other cities, in reaction to its belief that the president was focused on military as opposed to social spending. These tent cities were erected for two days on national park grounds; they were resisted by the National Park Service, which tried repeatedly to evict the tenters. The protesters remained; they marched on the White House and members testified before a Congressional committee about what they described as the housing crisis in America. The last Reagan Ranch was held at the Republican Convention in Dallas in 1984. \n\nIn addition to protesting, ACORN also developed and strengthened its political action committees and encouraged its members to run for office. For the 1984 election ACORN wanted to endorse a candidate, setting a 75% support in polls among members as its requirement. No candidate reached that level, though there was strong support for Jesse Jackson. ACORN also established a legislative office that year in Washington, DC. During this period ACORN also focused on local election reform in a number of cities, including Pittsburgh, Columbia, South Carolina, and Sioux Falls, South Dakota. They encouraged cities to change legislative bodies whose members were elected at-large to electing members by single-member district, which resulted in more participation by minorities, including women. At-large voting tends to favor candidates who can appeal to the majority and who can command more campaign funding, reducing participation by a wider variety of citizens.\n\nBy the end of Reagan's first term, ACORN operated in 27 states, adding chapters in New York City, Washington, DC, and Chicago. During the 1988 Election, ACORN held its National Convention in the same city as the Democratic Convention — Atlanta.\n\nACORN's membership grew to more than 70,000 in 28 states during this time. It increased its legislative lobbying efforts in Washington, DC, and strengthened its Political Action Committees (PACs). It also developed what it called the Affiliated Media Foundation Movement (AM/FM). Starting with station KNON in Dallas, AM/FM established radio stations, UHF television and cable television programming. It also sought and received appointments to the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC), which was formed to dissolve the assets of failed Savings and Loans resulting from the Savings and Loan crisis.\n\nWhile some of ACORN's most notable efforts were in the area of housing, it has counted health, public safety, education, representation, work and workers' rights and communications concerns among its victories. The 1990 ACORN convention in Chicago focused on the fast-breaking housing campaign. It featured a squatting demonstration at an RTC house. ACORN members demanded that banks provide loan data on low- and moderate-income communities and comply with the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). ACORN fought weakening of the CRA in 1991, staging a two-day takeover of the House Banking Committee hearing room. It established ACORN Housing Corporation to assist people in moving into homes under the housing campaign, and to rehabilitate hundreds of houses addressed by the CRA. The ACORN convention in New York in 1992, called the \"ACORN-Bank Summit\", was organized to make deals with giant banks. When Citibank, the nation's largest bank, did not participate, conventioneers protested at its downtown Manhattan headquarters, and won a meeting to negotiate for similar programs. \n\nACORN supported and lobbied for the \"Motor Voter\" Act, which provided for voter registration at motor vehicle bureaus. After its passage, ACORN members attended President Clinton's signing ceremony. ACORN worked for new voter registration laws in Arkansas and Massachusetts and filed suit in Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan, Missouri, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania against certain state practices as a result of the act.\n\nIn 1993, ACORN also began a national campaign to fight insurance redlining, a practice that put the gains made in other housing campaigns at risk. The campaign targeted Allstate, hitting sales offices in 14 cities and a stockholders meeting. Allstate agreed to negotiate and signed an agreement in 1994 for a $10 million partnership with ACORN and NationsBank for below-market mortgages to low-income home-buyers. Travelers Insurance agreed to a Neighborhood and Home Safety Program, linking access to insurance and lower rates to public safety programs. \n\nACORN has worked on supporting a \"Living Wage\" programs, voter registration, and grassroots political organization.\n\nIn 1998, ACORN helped form the Working Families Party in New York, which had made increasing the minimum wage as its centerpiece issue.\n\nA March 27, 2003 decision of the National Labor Relations Board found that ACORN tried to thwart union organizing efforts within its own organization by laying off two workers who were trying to organize. The two workers, both field organizers with ACORN, began discussions with the Service Employees International Union and later sought to organize under Industrial Workers of the World, seeking to improve their $20,200 annual salary for a 54-hour work week. The NLRB ordered the two employees be reinstated in their former jobs and that ACORN cease from interrogating employees about organizing activity.\n\nIn 2004, Florida ACORN helped to raise Florida's minimum wage by $1.00 per hour, by lobbying for a minimum wage amendment to be placed on the ballot. Over 1 million Florida employees were affected by the raise, which is adjusted annually for inflation. That year, ACORN became an international organization, opening offices in Canada, Peru, and beginning work in Dominican Republic. Offices have subsequently been opened in Mexico and Argentina.\n\nACORN International was created in 2004 by members and staff of the organizations.\n\nUntil the controversies of 2008 and 2009, ACORN had an annual budget of approximately US$25 million, with approximately 10% of those funds coming from federal sources, a smaller figure from state sources, and the rest coming from supporters and membership. HUD estimated that ACORN received $42 million in federal funds since the 2000 budget year; the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee estimated that ACORN received $53 million since 1994.\n\nACORN was a nonpartisan organization, but its legally separate political action arm frequently endorsed causes and candidates, including the 2008 Democratic presidential nominee Barack Obama. ACORN lobbied every Democratic National Convention since 1980 and had members elected as delegates to those conventions; ACORN also lobbied at Republican conventions. ACORN was criticized by Republicans for its support of Democratic candidates and for its general support of political positions that are more often favored by Democrats.\n\nIn a report released in October 2008, the U.S. Department of Justice Inspector General concluded that U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales fired U.S. Attorney David Iglesias (one of nine US attorneys removed in 2006) for political reasons after Iglesias failed to prosecute a New Mexico ACORN chapter. The report said claims that Iglesias was fired for poor performance were not credible, and the \"real reason for Iglesias's removal was the complaints from New Mexico Republican politicians and party activists about how Iglesias handled voter fraud [cases].\" Iglesias did not believe there was sufficient evidence to support prosecution by the government.\n\nDuring the debate on the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, some commentators claimed that a draft provision (omitted in the adopted bill) to give money to funds run by the U.S. Department of the Treasury could potentially lead to money flowing to groups like ACORN. When asked how much money ACORN or other community groups would get, a spokesman for Financial Services Committee chairman Barney Frank, said, \"Absolutely none. All funds would go to state and local governments.\" Critics also claimed that ACORN's complex organizational structure allowed it to escape public scrutiny.\n\nACORN was among groups conducting voter registration drives prior to the 2008 presidential election; Republicans alleged they were responsible for voter registration fraud and had a conflict of interest. During the 2008 Democratic Presidential Primary, ACORN's national political action committee, ACORN Votes, endorsed Barack Obama. Obama, with several other attorneys, had served as local counsel for ACORN more than a decade earlier in a 1995 voting rights lawsuit joined by the Justice Department and the League of Women Voters. Obama's campaign hired an ACORN affiliate for $800,000 to conduct a get-out-the-vote effort during that primary, but did not retain ACORN for the general presidential election.\n\nThroughout the election season, supporters of Republican candidates alleged that ACORN was responsible for widespread vote fraud. In October 2008, the campaign for Republican presidential candidate John McCain released a Web-based advertisement claiming ACORN was responsible for \"massive voter fraud,\" a point that Sen. McCain repeated in the final presidential debate. FactCheck.org called this claim \"breathtakingly inaccurate,\" but acknowledged that ACORN had problems with phony registrations. The ads also claimed that home loan programs ACORN promoted were partly responsible for the sub-prime mortgage crisis. \"Newsweek\" and Factcheck.org also found these claims to be exaggerated and inaccurate.\n\nA poll released in November 2009 by the Public Policy Polling organization found that 52% of Republican Party members it surveyed, and 26% of respondents overall, believed in a conspiracy theory that ACORN \"stole\" the election for Barack Obama. The Democratic polling organization commented that this was somewhat higher than belief in the birther conspiracy theories. (In a follow-poll in 2012, PPP found that 49% of Republicans, nearly the same percentage as in 2009, believed that ACORN had stolen the 2012 election for Obama. But by then ACORN was no longer operating.)\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported on July 9, 2008, that Dale Rathke, the brother of ACORN's founder Wade Rathke, was found to have embezzled $948,607.50 from the group and affiliated charitable organizations in 1999 and 2000. ACORN executives decided to handle it as an internal matter, and did not inform most of the board members or law enforcement, and instead signed an enforceable restitution agreement with the Rathke family to repay the amount of the embezzlement. $210,000 has already been repaid, and a donor, Drummond Pike, has offered to pay the remaining debt. \"The Times\" reported that, according to Wade Rathke, \"the decision to keep the matter secret was not made to protect his brother but because word of the embezzlement would have put a 'weapon' into the hands of enemies of ACORN, a liberal group that is a frequent target of conservatives who object to ACORN's often strident advocacy on behalf of low- and moderate-income families and workers.\" A whistleblower revealed the embezzlement in 2008. On June 2, 2008, Dale Rathke was dismissed, and Wade stepped down as ACORN's chief organizer, but he remains chief organizer for Acorn International L.L.C.\n\nIn September 2008, following revelations of Dale Rathke's embezzlement, two members of ACORN's national board of directors filed a lawsuit seeking to obtain financial documents and to force the organization to sever ties with Wade Rathke. ACORN's executive committee voted unanimously to remove the two, \"because their actions—such as releasing a confidential legal memo to the press—were damaging the organization.\"\n\nIn October 2009, Louisiana Attorney General Buddy Caldwell claimed in a subpoena that ACORN's board of directors found that a larger amount—$5 million—had been embezzled from the organization. Bertha Lewis, ACORN's CEO, said the allegation is false. On November 6, following up on the subpoena, Caldwell served a search warrant at the ACORN headquarters in New Orleans. Caldwell stated, \"This is an investigation of everything—Acorn, the national organization, the local organization and all of its affiliated entities.\"\n\nIn September 2009, conservative activists Hannah Giles and James O'Keefe publicized selectively edited hidden camera recordings through Fox News and Andrew Breitbart's website BigGovernment.com. In the videos, Giles posed as a prostitute and O'Keefe posed as her boyfriend in order to elicit damaging responses from employees of ACORN. The videos were recorded over the summer of 2009 while visiting ACORN offices in eight cities, and purported to show low-level ACORN employees in several cities providing advice to Giles and O'Keefe on how to avoid taxes and detection by the authorities with regard to their plans to engage in tax evasion, human smuggling, and child prostitution. After the videos were made public, the U.S. Congress voted to eliminate federal funding to ACORN. Although the resolutions were later nullified in a federal court ruling that the measure was an unconstitutional bill of attainder, on August 13, 2010, a federal appeals court upheld the congressional act that cut off federal funding for ACORN. In March 2010, ACORN announced it would be closing its offices and disbanding due to loss of funding from government and private donors.\n\nOn December 7, 2009, the former Massachusetts Attorney General, after an independent internal investigation of ACORN, found the videos that had been released appeared to have been edited, \"in some cases substantially\". He found no evidence of criminal conduct by ACORN employees, but concluded that ACORN had poor management practices that contributed to unprofessional actions by a number of its low-level employees. On March 1, 2010, the District Attorney's office for Brooklyn determined that the videos were \"heavily edited\" and \"many of the seemingly crime-encouraging answers were taken out of context so as to appear more sinister\", and concluded that there was no criminal wrongdoing by the ACORN staff in the videos from the Brooklyn ACORN office. On April 1, 2010, an investigation by the California Attorney General found the videos from Los Angeles, San Diego and San Bernardino to be \"heavily edited,\" and the investigation did not find evidence of criminal conduct on the part of ACORN employees. On June 14, 2010, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) released its findings which showed that ACORN evidenced no sign that it, or any of its related organizations, mishandled any federal money they had received.\n\nIn late 2009, after various allegations of criminal activity due to the videos, a number of Democrats who once advertised their connections to ACORN began to distance themselves, as Republicans began to use the ACORN allegations to portray Democrats as corrupt. In immediate response to the 2009 video controversy, the United States House and Senate, by wide margins, attached amendments to pending spending legislation that would temporarily prohibit the federal government from funding ACORN, or any agency that had been involved in similar scandals — including money authorized by previous legislation. President Obama signed the bill into law on October 1.\n\nACORN sued the United States Government in the United States District Court in Brooklyn over the measure, known as the \"Defund ACORN Act,\" claiming it was a bill of attainder, and therefore unconstitutional. Experts varied on the merit of the case, which was styled \"ACORN v. United States\". One argument was that while government funding choices do not generally qualify as bills of attainder, the lack of a non-punitive regulatory purpose for the legislation may give a court \"sufficient basis to overcome the presumption of constitutionality.\" The court issued a preliminary injunction that nullified the act.\n\nIn response to an inquiry from a Housing and Urban Development Department lawyer, David Barron, the acting assistant attorney general for the Office of Legal Counsel, wrote a five-page memorandum concluding that the law does not prohibit the government from paying ACORN for services already performed. On December 11, U.S. District Judge Nina Gershon issued a preliminary injunction blocking the government from enforcing its temporary spending ban, a week before it was set to expire. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) opened an investigation of ACORN in December 2009. In June 2010, the GAO released a preliminary report stating the investigation has found no sign the group or related organizations mishandled the $40 million in federal money they received from nine federal agencies.\n\nOn August 13, 2010 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed Judge Gershon's decision. The appeals court cited a study finding that only 10% of ACORN's funding came from federal sources, and stated, \"We doubt that the direct consequences of the appropriations laws temporarily precluding ACORN from federal funds were so disproportionately severe or so inappropriate as to constitute punishment.\" The Center for Constitutional Rights, which had argued the case on ACORN's behalf, was considering a request for a rehearing by more judges of the 2nd Circuit.\n\nOn March 19, 2010, \"The New York Times\" reported that ACORN was on the verge of filing for bankruptcy; 15 of the group's 30 state chapters had disbanded over the previous six months, and other chapters (including the largest, in New York and California) renamed themselves and severed all ties to the national organization. Two unnamed ACORN officials told the \"Times\" that the following weekend, a teleconference was planned to discuss a bankruptcy filing; \"private donations from foundations to Acorn [had] all but evaporated,\" and the federal government had distanced itself from the group. \"[L]ong before the activist videos delivered what may become the final blow, the organization was dogged for years by financial problems and accusations of fraud.\" \"That 20-minute video ruined 40 years of good work,\" said Sonja Merchant-Jones, former co-chairwoman of ACORN's recently closed Maryland chapter. \"But if the organization had confronted its own internal problems, it might not have been taken down so easily.\"\n\nOn March 22, 2010, National ACORN spokesman Kevin Whelan says the organization's board decided to close remaining state affiliates and field offices by April 1 because of falling revenues. Other national operations continued operating for another several weeks before shutting for good. On April 20, ACORN CEO Bertha Lewis reported that ACORN was \"still alive. We're limping along. We're on life support.\" Lewis said that ACORN's annual budget had been reduced from $25 million to $4 million, and that its staff of 350 to 600 people had been reduced to four. Lewis explained the controversies had left a stain on ACORN, \"sort of like a scarlet letter,\" forcing the group to spend money defending itself against \"one investigation after another.\"\n\nSome chapters continued operations by severing ties with the national organization:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55575476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55575476", "title": "Bertha Mkhize", "text": "Bertha Mkhize\n\nBertha Mkhize (6 June 1889 – 3 October 1981) was a South African teacher, who gained legal emancipation as a \"feme sole\" operating a business in her own right. As the government began implementing Apartheid in the late 1940s and early 1950s, she joined labor unions and women's organizations, leading demonstrations against the policies of the government. She was arrested twice for these activities and charged in the second incident with treason, but found not guilty of the allegations. When she was forced to give up her business, she became a pioneer in the Bahá'í Faith, embracing its doctrine of equality for all people. She worked to establish twenty-eight Bahá'í communities in KwaZulu-Natal.\n\nNhlumba Bertha Mkhize was born on 6 June 1889 in Embo, near Umkomaas in the southern province of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa to Mashobane Mkhize, an oxcart driver. Around the age of four, Mkhize's father died and the family relocated to Inanda, where she enrolled in the Inanda Seminary School. She was one of the first students of the all-girls school. After completion of her studies at the seminary, she went on to graduate from Ohlange High School.\n\nIn 1907, Mkhize began teaching at Inanda Seminary and remained there for the next four years. While she was teaching, she took tailoring classes to learn the skill. In 1909, she was legally emancipated. The process required her to appear before a magistrate with a signed document from her guardians granting her the right to conduct her affairs without her male family members' approval. This was an unusual procedure for Zulu women at the time and gave her the right to homestead or open her own business. In 1911, she left the teaching profession and moved to Durban where she went into tailoring with her brother. She continued with her interest in literacy, working in a children's center for twenty-five years. She also spoke out against oppressive measures used to undermine people's rights, like culling their cattle or forcing them and their owners to be plunged in pesticide under the guise of controlling typhus.\n\nAt its organization, Mkhize joined the African National Congress Women's League (ANCWL) and became involved in women's rights issues, participating in marches in 1931 and 1936 against requirements for women to have travel passes. She also joined the Industrial and Commercial Workers' Union, campaigning against curfews, low wages, and other working restrictions. In the early 1950s a series of restrictive laws were passed by the Apartheid legislature which required women to vacate urban areas within 72 hours or live with a man who had a permanent permit of residence. As early as 1950, protests of the new laws which curtailed free movement were held in urban areas throughout the country. Mkhize led the demonstrations in Durban in March 1950. In 1952, she joined around 500 other women to march on the Durban City Council. Known as the Defiance Campaign, at issue was a law that required women to obtain permission to travel. Mkhize spoke in favor of retracting the restriction, and for her defiance spent several months in prison.\n\nBecause the women were successful in exerting pressure on the government, Mkhize and others recognized that further organization would further their cause. To that end, they created the Federation of South African Women (FEDSAW). She was one of the women who attended the founding conference in 1954 and was selected as one of the national vice presidents along with Florence Matomela, Lillian Ngoyi, and Gladys Smith. They drafted Women's Charter, which called for universal enfranchisement regardless of race, and equal opportunity in the areas of civil liberties, domestic rights, employment and pay. Two years later, Mkhize had become President of ANCWL, which held a mass demonstration in August 1956 to show the strength of women's opposition to a new implementation of women's pass laws. Along with other leaders of the women's movement, Mkhize was arrested for treason in the middle of the night in December 1956. The women, which included other activists like Frances Baard, Helen Joseph, Lillian Ngoyi, and Annie Silinga were accused of plotting to overthrow the government. The trial lasted for four and a half years, resulting in not guilty verdicts for all 156 women arrested on that night raid. \n\nIn 1958, Mkhize was introduced to the Bahá'í Faith and joined the organization on 1 January 1959. The message of unity for all people was in line with her own convictions and she became active in the church. She had continued running her business in Durban, but in 1965 the Durban City Council forced the closure of all African businesses and removed their owners of the area. She worked actively in Natal and Zululand for five years on behalf of the Bahá'í Faith and then settled in Gezinsila in Eshowe as a pioneer. Along with other Bahá'í teachers, Mkhize was responsible for founding twenty-eight congregations in the area. In 1968, she was elected to serve as a delegate to the National Spiritual Assembly of South and West Africa and served for one year. She translated many texts of the faith into Zulu. After nine years, her health began to fail in 1975, but she remained in her post until 1978, when she bequeathed her home to the faith and returned to Inanda.\n\nMkhize died on 3 October 1981 in Inanda and is remembered for her pioneering role in women's rights. A street in Durban was renamed in her honor in 2010. A life-sized sculpture of Mkhize created by Cristina Salvoldi was installed at the National Heritage Monument in Tshwane near Johannesburg in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "988181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=988181", "title": "British Democratic Party", "text": "British Democratic Party\n\nThe British Democratic Party (BDP) was a short-lived far-right political party in the United Kingdom. A breakaway group from the National Front the BDP was severely damaged after it became involved in a gun-running sting and was absorbed by the British National Party.\n\nThe BDP emerged following the 1979 general election in which the National Front (NF) had put up the greatest number of candidates in its history. However, despite this results fell way below the party's expectations. The recriminations that followed this financially costly defeat saw Andrew Brons replace John Tyndall as chairman whilst a number of groups broke away from the NF, notably the New National Front and the Constitutional Movement.\n\nWithin the NF, the Leicester branch had become one of the most active in the country and, since 1972, this group had been led by Anthony Reed Herbert, a local solicitor whose talent for organisation had made Leicester a model branch. Reed Herbert took the opportunity provided by the 1979 collapse of the NF to launch his own group, initially selecting the name British Peoples Party. However, the name was quickly changed in order to avoid association with the earlier British People's Party, a splinter group from the National Socialist League, organised either side of the Second World War. The name was thus changed to British Democratic Party even though a British Democratic Party, a minor right wing anti-communist group, had also previously existed in the 1930s.\n\nThe BDP shared with the Constitutional Movement a desire to move away from open neo-Nazism in general and Tyndall and Martin Webster in particular, with Reed Herbert reasoning that a stream of press exposures of the more extreme views of both men had hit the NF's election chances hard. Effectively therefore the BDP sought to present a more \"respectable\" public image in contrast to that of the NF.\n\nThe BDP quickly gained a following within Leicester, capturing 11% of the vote in the first local elections it contested, a highly respectable score for a new and virtually unknown party. However the British Movement's Ray Hill also became involved and, after giving a copy of the party's membership list to \"Searchlight\" magazine, soon began secretly working for the anti-fascist publication full-time. Although never formally a member of the BDP Hill, on instructions from \"Searchlight\", took a leading role in helping Reed Herbert to organise the new party. Hill also took over production of the party's newspaper \"British News\". Hill's association with both the BDP and BM was not unusual as BDP members Dave Gagin, Chris Newman, Jack Munton and Chris Harrison all held simultaneous membership of the BM.\n\nThe association of Hill with the BDP meant that many of its activities were exposed in the press. Thus a celebration for Adolf Hitler's birthday held in 1980 in an illegal bar in the basement of the party's headquarters was reported in the \"Daily Mirror\". Hill also fomented a plan to take over the British Movement, suggesting to Reed Herbert that the two groups could unite once it was successful, although this idea too was driven by a \"Searchlight\" plan to bring about divisions within the BM. Hill further informed the magazine on BDP plans to obtain weapons and to set up an illegal television transmitter, although information about both schemes was initially vague.\n\nThe BDP became embroiled in a 1981 scheme developed by the \"World in Action\" documentary series in which an American claiming to be a neo-Nazi gunrunner (but who was actually working for the programme) was put in touch with the BDP. Before long, Hill became involved in order to facilitate the sting. 'Bob Matthews', as the American claimed to be called, told Reed Herbert that he needed a gun in order to raid a US Army armoury, and Reed Herbert agreed to supply a single weapon for £200. BDP member John Grand Scrutton was chosen to ferry the weapon, a luger pistol, to a secret location arranged in advance with 'Matthews' before phoning the American to let him know more details. The resulting phone call, in which Scrutton suggested that the BDP could get hold of six more guns and told 'Matthews' to send payments to Reed Herbert's address, was recorded by \"World in Action\" and broadcast on the show.\n\nReed Herbert learned of the ruse from a journalist immediately prior to the broadcast of the episode as did Scrutton, whose finger prints were on the luger which by that point was in police custody. Reed Herbert sent Scrutton, under Hill's care, to a hideout in the Republic of Ireland but before long Scrutton returned to Britain and had to be brought back to Ireland by Hill. Reed Herbert eventually told Scrutton to go to South Africa and Scrutton, along with Hill, was put on a plane that stopped over at Paris-Orly Airport. However Hill had informed \"Searchlight\" about the plan and they in turn had tipped off the French authorities who arrested Scrutton and Hill before sending them back to Ireland. Under Hill's prompting, Scrutton contacted the show's producer Geoffrey Seed and, after three days of interviews, they convinced him to return to Leicester and give himself up to police. Scrutton eventually returned and made a full statement, but despite this statement, no charges were ever brought against Scrutton or any member of the BDP in regards to the weapons offences.\n\nDespite the incident Hill, who had moved on to a new plan to work with and undermine John Tyndall, remained close to the BDP and sought to continue working to damage the party. At this time the party also enjoyed the support of influential publisher Anthony Hancock, although he too was close to the BM and was less sure about Tyndall. Nonetheless, the gun-running incident forced the BDP to cease almost all operations, and it came as little surprise when it was brought to a conclusion in 1982 by re-joining Tyndall and Hill as founder members of the British National Party.\n"}
{"id": "25266509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25266509", "title": "Carlotism", "text": "Carlotism\n\nCarlotism was a political movement that took place in the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata between 1808 and 1812; it intended to make Carlota Joaquina, Infanta of Spain and Queen Consort of Portugal, its monarch.\n\nAfter Napoleon's invasion of Spain, Fernando VII, Carlota's younger brother, was forced to abdicate and give the throne to Joseph Bonaparte. Most Spanish did not consider him a legitimate king and Carlota, an ambitious woman, seemed like a possible option to keep the royal line safe. \n\nCarlota was living in Brazil by then, after the nobility of Portugal moved from Portugal to the Americas because of Napoleón's invasion of Portugal. \n\nCarlotism found strong resistance from many parties involved: the viceroys, other Spanish authorities in the Americas, part of the Criollos, and the British. The plans were never applied, and supporters of it would later turn to independence.\n\n"}
{"id": "36909621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36909621", "title": "Convention on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons", "text": "Convention on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons\n\nThe Convention on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons is an international treaty regulating the extradition and social rehabilitation of imprisoned persons. The convention was concluded in Strasbourg on 21 March 1983 and entered into force on 1 July 1985. It has been ratified by 66 countries, including every country of the Council of Europe except Monaco. It has also been ratified by 19 states outside the Council of Europe, including Australia, Canada, Israel, Japan, South Korea, Mexico,the United States and India. The latest accession to the convention was India in January 2018. The convention, in particular, gives foreigners convicted of a criminal offence the possibility of serving their sentences in their home countries.\n\nAccording to convention, the extradition (transfer) may be requested by either the state in which the sentence was imposed (the \"sentencing State\") or the state of which the sentenced person is a national (the \"administering State\").\n\nArticle 12 lets each party of the convention grant pardon or commutation of the sentence in accordance with its constitution or other laws.\n"}
{"id": "13666130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13666130", "title": "Cookie pusher", "text": "Cookie pusher\n\nThe term Cookie Pusher has been applied as a reference to diplomats in general and members of the United States Foreign Service specifically.\n\nThe Listserv of the American Dialect Society documents \"cookie pusher\" as being coined by US diplomat Hugh S. Gibson in 1924.\n\nThe term has been used a number of times throughout the 20th and 21st centuries, sometimes in derogatory form but at other times in the spirit of a pseudonym for American Foreign Service Officers. A series of articles in the Christian Science Monitor that ran in February 1950 were subtitled \"Alias Cookie Pushers.\" The articles were very laudatory towards the US Foreign Service, talking about the conditions encountered at the time, versus stereotypes of diplomats being \"striped pants Cookie Pushers from Harvard.\"\n\nIvor Evans in \"Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable\" uses the term denoting a junior diplomat who functions as a roving waiter at an official reception, presumably \"pushing\" appetizers on people who don't really want them.\n\n"}
{"id": "47003032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47003032", "title": "Declaration of the Four Nations", "text": "Declaration of the Four Nations\n\nThe Declaration of the Four Nations or the Four Power Declaration was signed on October 30, 1943 at the Moscow Conference by the Big Four: the United States, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, and the Republic of China. The declaration formally established the four power framework that would later influence the international order of the postwar world. It was one of four declarations signed at the conference; the other three were the Declaration on Italy, the Declaration on Austria, and the Declarations on Atrocities.\n\nThe Four Power Declaration was drafted by State Department advisers such as Cordell Hull and Sumner Welles, who presented it to President Franklin D. Roosevelt on August 10. Their proposal eschewed the regional councils preferred by Churchill in favor of establishing an international postwar organization. It omitted any discussion of the potentially controversial establishment of a permanent peacekeeping force after the war. Instead, its stated aim was simply the creation \"at the earliest possible date of a general international organization.\" \n\nRoosevelt revealed the proposal to Churchill and Anthony Eden when they met at Quebec. The President stressed that the declaration would \"in no way prejudice final decisions as to world order\" and that the declaration was only an interim agreement. Churchill and Roosevelt reached a consensus that the Four Power Declaration should be given high priority at the Moscow Conference, whereas Stalin wanted the conference to focus on the ongoing war against Germany. The Russians also objected to the inclusion of the Republic of China as the fourth Great Power of the declaration; officially on the grounds that the Moscow Conference was planned as a meeting between three Great Powers (the US, UK, and the Soviet Union). Roosevelt suspected that Stalin's true motivations were to avoid antagonizing the Japanese, with whom they had signed a non-aggression pact in 1941. Churchill's view was that Stalin had a similar reluctance to recognize China as a Great Power.\n\n"}
{"id": "1283807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1283807", "title": "Decree 900", "text": "Decree 900\n\nDecree 900 (), also called the Agrarian Reform Law, was a Guatemalan land reform law passed on June 17, 1952, during the Guatemalan Revolution. The law was introduced by President Jacobo Árbenz Guzmán and passed by the Guatemalan Congress. It redistributed unused lands of sizes greater than 224 acres (0.902 km²) to local peasants, compensating landowners with government bonds. Land from at most 1,700 estates was redistributed to about 500,000 families—one sixth of the country's population. The goal of the legislation was to move Guatemala's economy from pseudo-feudalism into capitalism. Although in force for only eighteen months, the law had a major effect on the Guatemalan land reform movement.\n\nIndigenous groups, deprived of land since the Spanish conquest, were major beneficiaries of the decree. In addition to raising agricultural output by increasing the cultivation of land, the reform is credited with helping many Guatemalans find dignity and autonomy. Decree 900 did create some conflicts in practice, but these were not major, and the law is described as one of the most potentially successful land reforms in history. However, redistribution angered major landowners—including the United Fruit Company—and the United States, which construed Guatemala's land reform as a communist threat. Decree 900 was thus a direct impetus for the 1954 coup d'état which deposed Árbenz and instigated decades of Civil War.\n\nWhen Árbenz was elected in 1951, Guatemala had a high GDP but extremely unequal distribution of land: 2% of the population controlled 72% of the arable land. Only 12% of this land was under cultivation. Much of the population without land was poor, and had associated health problems. Indigenous people had been treated as subordinate for hundreds of years, and had become increasingly impoverished and dependent on wages from plantation work. Indigenous people were also required to serve as migrant laborers through legal coercion, as Guatemala's coffee industry expanded rapidly from the 1870s through the 1930s.\n\nAfter Juan Jose Arévalo won the 1944 election, Guatemala created a reformist constitution in 1945. This constitution explicitly stated that the government should protect communal land and create policies that would lead to equitable distribution of wealth. Article 88 of the 1945 Guatemalan Constitution, which served as the legal basis for Decree 900, stipulates: \"It is a primary function of the State to develop agricultural activities and industry in general, toward the end that the fruits of labor shall preferentially benefit those who produce them and that the wealth shall reach the greatest number of inhabitants of the Republic.\" Article 90 recognizes the existence of private property, but suggests that rights to property could be waived in the social interest. This constitution marked the beginning of the Ten Years of Spring, also known as the Guatemalan Revolution: a period of democratization and liberal reforms.\n\nÁrbenz sought to transform Guatemala from a feudalist to a capitalist economy by distributing capital and creating infrastructure to increase production. The wish to transform Guatemala into a competitive capitalist nation led Árbenz to push for the construction of a national highway, a new port, a hydroelectric power plant—and for increased cultivation of unused lands.\n\nÁrbenz began promoting agrarian reform soon after becoming President. He was aided politically by a renewed Communist Party of Guatemala (PGT), which believed that some amount of capitalist development necessarily preceded a communist revolution. Árbenz accepted help from the PGT and its leaders were among his personal friends; however, he rejected some of their proposals, including a mandate for the organization of producer cooperatives.\n\nThe proposed law gained widespread support among peoples' organizations and in the national press, but was opposed by the Asociación General de Agricultores (AGA), which represented the existing landowners.\n\nPresented with a draft by the President, the Guatemalan Congress met on Saturdays and Sundays for five weeks. Congress introduced some changes to Árbenz's version, most notably restoring the idea of cooperatives (although not to the degree proposed by the PGT). Decree 900—\"Decreto Número 900 El Congreso De La República De Guatemala\"—was passed on 17 June 1952 at 1:45 AM and signed into law by Árbenz on the same day. It called for 603,704 hectares of farmland to be redistributed to 100,000 families. Specifically, it authorized the redistribution of all uncultivated land on estates larger than 672 acres, and of land on estates sized from 224–672 acres, on which less than two-thirds of the land was cultivated. It also specified total redistribution of the government owned \"fincas nacionales\", which contributed a quarter of the nation's coffee production.\n\nArticle 1 of the law reads:\n\nThe Agrarian Reform of the October Revolution intends to eliminate the feudal property structure in the countryside and develop relations of production that originate to develop the land to the form of operational and capitalist methods of production in agriculture and to prepare the way for the industrialization of Guatemala.\n\nProponents of the law stated that it was intended to “eliminate all feudal type property...especially work-servitude and the remnant of slavery.” Decree 900 specifically abolished slavery, unpaid labor, work as payment of rent, and relocation of indigenous workers.\n\nThe law did not redistribute land automatically. It created a National Agrarian Department (DAN), and required people without land to file requests with Local Agrarian Committees (CALs). CALs would then make decisions about how to reappropriate the land of major owners. Landowners could dispute these decisions, with an appeals process going all the way up to the President. The committees were formed from local groups, and intended to foster the spirit of community control and local political power. As suggested by the PGT, the law also gave new landowners the option of choosing lifetime tenure instead of private ownership, with the goal of preventing large landowners from simply buying back the land. The \"Fincas Nationales\" were available only through the lifetime tenure option. According to José Manuel Fortuny, a PGT leader who helped draft the legislation:\n\nWe [the PGT] proposed the creation of peasant committees [CALs] in order to lay the groundwork for the eventual radicalization of the peasantry. We talked to Arbenz about this, and he agreed with us. What we wanted was to foster the control of the reform from below. This would give the peasants a strong sense of their common needs. And if, from the system of lifetime tenure, cooperatives developed, the seeds of a more collective society would have been sown.\n\nFinally, the law established a system for using bonds to compensate people who lost acres to peasants. The property owners were paid in bonds which matured in 25 years; value of the land was based on claims made on the previous year's tax returns.\n\nCredit for those receiving land was mandated by additional legislation in 1953, which also established a National Agrarian Bank (BNA). The government dispensed $3,371,185 in loans during 1953; $3,049,092 had been paid back by July 1954—a historically unusual success in lending.\n\nBeginning in 1954, land and credit were supplemented by literacy programs—the third major plank of the reform program.\n\nBy 1954, 1.4 million acres had been reappropriated. 100,000 families (about 500,000 people, one sixth of the population) had received land as well as bank credit and technical aid. The law affected about 1,700 estates of the country's richest and most conservative people and groups\n\nProduction of corn, coffee, and bananas increased while the law was in effect in 1953 and 1954. High coffee prices bolstered the national economy and offset the flight of foreign capital. According to a report by the U.S. Embassy in 1954, \"A preliminary analysis of the President's report left little doubt, as long as coffee prices are at their present high level, that the Guatemalan economy was basically prosperous.\"\n\nDecree 900 led to the expropriation of 1700 acres of Árbenz's own land and 1,200 acres belonging to foreign minister Guillermo Toriello. Minister of Agriculture Nicolás Brol also had some of his land redistributed.\n\nVarious sources (including Árbenz and the government) reported conflicts over implementing the law. Decree 900 triggered domestic opposition from landowners and some elements within the military. The reforms were also opposed by the Catholic Church and the business class.\n\nLandowners complained of unfair practices, but so did others who felt excluded or as though they were getting a bad deal. Some peasants seized land without going through the legal channels, believing that the law provided them with a mandate. Sometimes the expropriators fought each other over who would get a certain piece of land. Other violent incidents among peasants were self-defense or retaliation against landowners who sought to disobey the law or intimidate them. In some places, peasants organized groups for self-defense and requested (usually without success) arms permits from the government. According to Neale Pearson, there were instances where \"peasants illegally occupied lands and a few in which they burned pastures or crops in order to have land declared uncultivated and subject to expropriation. But these cases were isolated and limited to number\".\n\nSometimes legal councils had difficulty measuring land, or determining how much land on an estate was really unused.\n\nUnion representatives began to travel through the countryside, informing people of the new law. Landowners closed private roads going through their property in order to prevent peasants from becoming informed of the changes. The government announced that all road would become public. Some local police forces (and other government officials) initially sanctioned some landowner retaliation. These groups, too, responded to government pressure to implement the reforms.\n\nBy 1954, more than 3000 CALs had been formed. These organizations, which controlled the distribution of land at a local level, represented a substantial increase in political power for ordinary people and people's organizations such as unions. However, the law also increased the power of the President and of the new national council, the DAN.\n\nIn 1953, the Supreme Court ruled that the lack of judicial oversight for the reform was unconstitutional, and it blocked any further implementation. Congress, with Árbenz's urging, voted to impeach four judges. This decision provoked anti-government demonstrations, in the course of which one person was killed.\n\nHistorian Douglas Trefzger has reported that the land reform disproportionately benefited Ladinos, relative to Indians. It seems that although the short-lived policies of Decree 900 had a positive effect on indigenous Guatemalans—particularly on their political consciousness—poverty and associated problems persisted.\n\nThe CNCG peasant league, founded in 1950 by activists and members of the teachers' union, grew rapidly during this time and by 1945 was the largest peoples' organization in the country. The second largest was the CGTG, a rural labor union.\n\nEfforts were made to win military support for Decree 900. These included the provision of incentives for peasants to join the army, as well as attempts to foster ties between the armed forces and the DAN. Some conflicts did emerge around the country as military leaders and peasant organizers competed for local power. These were ameliorated by new appointments to military positions. But these changes in military structure further upset some officers and contributed to the desertions and defections that allowed the coup to succeed.\n\nIn 1953 Árbenz announced that under the Agrarian Reform Law—specifically, because of an order made by the DAN—Guatemala was expropriating approximately 234,000 acres (947 km²) of uncultivated land from the United Fruit Company. United Fruit owned in Guatemala, 42% of the nation’s (arable) land. The company was compensated with $627,572 in bonds for the expropriation of their holdings, the amount United Fruit had claimed the land was worth for tax purposes. However, United Fruit proceeded to claim that its land was worth more. It had close ties to U.S. officials and lobbied the U.S. for intervention. The US State Department, on behalf of the United Fruit Company, claimed to Guatemala that the land was worth $15,854,849.\n\nA report written by the U.S. State Department's Office of Intelligence Research suggested that the reform itself would only affect 1,710 landowners, but expressed fear that the law would strengthen the position of communists in Guatemala. U.S. opposition to the Árbenz government certainly resulted from his reformist policies, but historians differ on the relative importance of expropriating United Fruit versus the apparent communist threat implied by land reform.\n\nBecause of the Agrarian Reform Law, the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company in August 1952 announced that it would no longer purchase Guatemalan chicle. Since Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company had been the sole buyer of the product, the Árbenz government suddenly had to provide a massive aid program for chicle harvesters.\n\nAfter aborting a coup attempt called Operation PBFORTUNE, the United States—through its Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)—renewed efforts to unseat Árbenz with Operation PBSUCCESS (1953–1954). It sought to develop relationships with members of Guatemalan military, and instituted an arms blockade that caused the military to fear a security crisis or even US invasion. The key agent for a possible coup was the exiled colonel Castillo Armas. The CIA also intensified propaganda campaigns to isolate Guatemala among Central American nations, and to convince the Guatemalan people that the Árbenz regime was on the brink of collapse.\n\nIn June 1954, Árbenz Guzmán was overthrown by a multi-faceted coup operation involving a small army led by Castillo Armas, scattered right-wing violence in the countryside, a U.S. Navy blockade (called Operation Hardrock Baker), bombardment by CIA planes, and a sophisticated CIA strategy of psychological warfare intended to demoralize Árbenz and provoke military defections. Thus, although Armas's ground invasion was quickly defeated, Árbenz resigned his post and Armas won control from the vacuum of power.\n\nArmas became President on 8 July. He quickly repealed Decree 900 and reversed 95% of the redistribution that had occurred. (All of the land formerly owned by United Fruit was restored.) Government documents pertaining to Decree 900 were also destroyed. Armas created a new Agrarian Commission and passed two new laws, which restored control over land policy to government officials. Some land changed hands as a result of these laws, but the scope of reform was substantially reduced. Armas also abolished government support for labor unions and denounced their members as communists.\n\nA long period of civil war followed, with indigenous and poor Guatemalans pitted against landowners and the military. Peace accords reached in 1996 repudiate Armas's policy, and those that followed, calling for a return to the idea of land as a social good.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36840574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36840574", "title": "Defense Distributed", "text": "Defense Distributed\n\nDefense Distributed is an online open-source hardware organization that develops digital schematics of firearms in CAD files, or \"wiki weapons\", that may be downloaded from the Internet and used in 3D printing or CNC milling applications. Among the organization's goals is to develop and freely publish firearms-related design schematics that can be downloaded and reproduced by anyone with a 3D printer or milling machine, facilitating the popular production of ghost guns.\n\nThe company is best known for developing and releasing the files for the Liberator, the world's first completely 3D printed gun. On May 5, 2013, Defense Distributed made these printable STL files public, and within days the United States Department of State demanded they be removed from the Internet, citing a violation of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. \n\nOn May 6, 2015, Defense Distributed, joined by the Second Amendment Foundation (SAF), brought suit against the Department of State in the Western District of Texas, which denied its preliminary injunction request. It subsequently appealed to the Fifth Circuit, which affirmed the denial, and then the Supreme Court, which declined to hear the case.\n\nOn July 10, 2018 it was announced that Defense Distributed and Second Amendment Foundation had accepted a settlement offer from the Department of State, effectively winning the case and restarting their work. Western Washington District Court Judge Robert S. Lasnik subsequently issued an order suspending the settlement and the public release of Defense Distributed's files. Multiple lawsuits are currently filed by state governments and Defense Distributed seeking to challenge or uphold this settlement.\n\nAfter raising via a suspended crowd-funding appeal, suffering the confiscation of its first 3D printer, and partnering with private manufacturing firms, the organization began live fire testing of the first generation of printable firearms in December 2012.\n\nIn its first year of operation the organization produced a durable printed receiver for the AR-15, the first printed standard capacity AR-15 magazine, and the first printed magazine for the AK-47. These 3D printable files were available for download at the organization's publishing site DEFCAD, but are now largely hosted on file sharing websites.\n\nThe organization has been predominantly represented in public since July 2012 by Cody Wilson, who is described as a founder and spokesperson.\n\nAccording to the Defense Distributed website, the nonprofit is organized and operated for charitable and literary purposes, specifically \"to defend the civil liberty of popular access to arms as guaranteed by the United States Constitution and affirmed by the Supreme Court, through facilitating global access to, and the collaborative production of, information and knowledge related to the 3D printing of arms; and to publish and distribute... such information and knowledge in promotion of the public interest.\" The website's “Manifesto” link directs users to an online version of John Milton's essay \"Areopagitica\".\n\nThe organization’s motivations have been described as \"less about [a] gun... than about democratizing manufacturing technology,\"\nIn an interview with \"Slashdot\", Cody Wilson described the Wiki Weapon project as a chance to \"experiment with Enlightenment ideas… to literally materialize freedom.”\n\nAt Bitcoin 2012 in London, Wilson explained the organization as interested in inspiring libertarian forms of social organization and technologically driven inversions of authority.\n\nIn December 2012, as a response to Makerbot Industries' decision to remove firearms-related 3D printable files at the popular repository Thingiverse, Defense Distributed launched a companion site at defcad.org to publicly host the removed 3D printable files and its own.\nPublic and community submissions to DEFCAD rose quickly, and in March 2013, at the SXSW Interactive festival, Wilson announced a repurposed and expanded DEFCAD as a separate entity that would serve as a 3D search engine and development hub, while maintaining the spirit of access endemic to Defense Distributed. The new DEFCAD was deemed \"The Pirate Bay of 3D Printing\" and \"the anti-Makerbot\" even before its launch, provided an index of over 100,000 files.\n\nIn October 2014, Defense Distributed began selling to the public a miniature CNC mill for completing receivers for the AR-15 semi-automatic rifle. For a review of the machine in Wired, Andy Greenberg manufactured a series of lowers and called the machine \"absurdly easy to use.\"\n\nDefense Distributed was seeking 501(c)(3) federal tax exemption but they abandoned their application after being denied by the IRS. \n\nThe organization operates to publish intellectual property and information developed by licensed firearms manufacturers and the public.\n\nCody Wilson has a Type 7 Federal Firearms License (FFL).\n\nOn May 9, 2013, The United States Department of State Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) directed Defense Distributed to remove the download links to its publicly accessible CAD files. The State Department's letter, likely prompted by the Liberator Pistol, referenced § 127.1 of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), interpreting the regulations to impose a prior approval requirement on publication of Defense Distributed's files into the public domain, a legal position noted at the time to suffer from First and Second Amendment infirmities.\n\nOn May 6, 2015, Defense Distributed filed a Constitutional challenge against the State Department in the Western District of Texas, suing government agents within the DDTC and accusing the government of knowingly violating the company's First, Second, and Fifth amendment liberties. Defense Distributed was joined in its suit by the Second Amendment Foundation.\n\nIn August 2015, the District Court for Western Texas in Austin denied Defense Distributed's preliminary injunction request. In September 2016, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit similarly ruled against Defense Distributed and subsequently denied an en banc hearing request. A petition was filed with the Supreme Court in August 2017 which was denied on January 8, 2018.\n\nPeer-to-peer torrent sites and other repositories continue to host Defense Distributed and other firearms CAD files.\n\nOn July 10, 2018, \"Wired\" magazine published the news that Defense Distributed and SAF had accepted a settlement offer from the Department of State. Cody Wilson explained his intention was to immediately relaunch DEFCAD and begin the work of digitizing popular firearms for public consumption. A temporary restraining order was issued by U.S. District Judge Robert Lasnik on July 31, 2018. Additional lawsuits have been filed by both sides.\n\nLearning of Defense Distributed's plans in 2012, manufacturer Stratasys, Ltd threatened legal action and demanded the return of the 3D printer it had leased to Wilson. On September 26, before the printer was assembled for use, Wilson received an email from Stratasys suggesting that he might use the printer \"for illegal purposes\".\nStratasys immediately canceled its lease with Wilson and sent a team to confiscate the printer the next day.\nWilson was subsequently questioned by the ATF when visiting an ATF field office in Austin, Texas to inquire about legalities and regulations relating to the Wiki Weapons project.\n\nDefense Distributed's efforts have prompted renewed discussion and examination of the Undetectable Firearms Act. The Liberator pistol was cited in White House and Congressional calls to renew the Act in 2013.\n\nDefense Distributed has been obliquely endorsed by the Gun Owners of America (GOA). However, the National Rifle Association (NRA) has offered - to date - no public comment on the organization or its activities.\n\nOpen source software advocate Eric S. Raymond has endorsed the organization and its efforts, calling Defense Distributed \"friends of freedom\" and writing \"I approve of any development that makes it more difficult for governments and criminals to monopolize the use of force. As 3D printers become less expensive and more ubiquitous, this could be a major step in the right direction.\"\n\nAaron Timms of Blouin News has written Defense Distributed has performed “the greatest piece of political performance art of [the 21st] century.”,\n\nFor its activities, Defense Distributed has been accused of endangering public safety and attempting to frustrate and alter the US system of government. However, critics have also noted that Defense Distributed has merely offered the means of production back to the masses in a way not too dissimilar from the effect the printing press had on the spread of information and the decentralization of power in societies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4939906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4939906", "title": "Deputy governor", "text": "Deputy governor\n\nA deputy governor is a gubernatorial official who is subordinated to a governor, rather like a lieutenant governor.\n\nIn the British Empire, there were such colonial offices in:\n\nThis variation was used once, in British Kaffraria (a separate Crown colony since 1860, first under a lieutenant governor; native inhabitants Xhosa), for its last own gubernatorial official before its final (re)incorporation into the Cape Colony: 24 December 1864 – 17 April 1866 (Robert Graham)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48362512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48362512", "title": "Dionisia Amaya", "text": "Dionisia Amaya\n\nDionisia Amaya-Bonilla, also known as Mama Nicha, (February 8, 1933 – February 3, 2014) was a teacher and Honduran Garifuna community activist who was the co-founder of Garifuna non-profit organization, MUGAMA, Inc., a support, education, and outreach organization that ran the Mugama Advocacy Center in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nAmaya-Bonilla was born in La Ceiba, Honduras, in 1933. Amaya-Bonilla went to the United States in May 1964 from Honduras originally going to Fort Worth, Texas, where she worked as a housekeeper until moving to New York City. She first lived on Longfellow in the Bronx until moving to East New York. She received her American citizenship in 1977. \n\nAfter getting her General Equivalency Diploma, in 1979, Amaya-Bonilla received a B.A. with high honors in Education from Medgar Evers College in New York City. She also has a M.A. and Advanced Certificate in Guidance and Counseling from Brooklyn College.\n\nAfter moving to New York City, Amaya-Bonilla worked in many different jobs, one of which was with Franciscan monks, who gave her a recommendation that led to a job at World Book Encyclopedia, where she worked for five years.\n\nAmaya-Bonilla worked at the NYC Board of Education in various positions as a teacher until eventually working as a guidance counselor. She worked in these positions for over 22 years.\n\nOutside of her education and counseling work, Amaya-Bonilla worked with her church, St. Mathews Catholic Church, to provide fundraising and support to her community. Notable relief efforts included the 1974 Hurricane Fifi that hit Honduras and the 1990 Happy Land Fire. In 1991, the Mugama organization created a scholarship fund in honor of a Garifuna who died in the fire. From 1989 until her death, Amaya-Bonilla was a Eucharistic Minister at Lady of Mercy Church in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nAmaya-Bonilla helped to organize Committee for Development in Honduras (COPRODH) in the mid-1970s in direct response of helping Hondurans affected by Hurricane Fifi, and Hondurans in the United States. Amaya-Bonilla was a strong supporter of the value of education in helping her community, so she worked to support recent Garifuna immigrants in their effort to learn English and get an education to advance themselves.\n\nIn January 1989, Amaya-Bonilla, Mirtha Sabio, and Lydia Sacasa-Hill, and others founded an organization called MUGAMA, to recognize the contributions of Garifunan women's accomplishments. The organization was inspired by International Women's Day, in an effort to honor women in the Garifuna community. MUGAMA held conferences and provided recognition within the community, gained non-profit status, and worked to help people get their General Equivalency Diploma and English as a second or foreign language, and U.S. citizenship. The name MUGAMA came from Garifuna Women Marching in Action aka Women on the Move Pro-Education=Mujeres Garifunas en Marcha Pro-Educación, with Garinagu the plural word for Garifuna people. MUGAMA was based out of the Riverdale Osborne Towers in East New York.\n\nIn 1991, MUGAMA was a sponsor of the First Intercontinental Garifuna Summit Meeting conference that was held at Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn, New York. The event was the first of its kind to bring Garifuna people from the United States together to have a political and cultural exchange of resources and establish a large community gathering.\n\nAmaya-Bonilla was a founding member of the Federation of Honduran Organizations of New York (FEDOHNY).\n\n\nAmaya-Bonilla was married to Alejandro Bonilla.\n\nAmaya-Bonilla died in 2014 in La Ceiba, Honduras, from a stroke.\n\n"}
{"id": "37262017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37262017", "title": "Frédéric van Roekeghem", "text": "Frédéric van Roekeghem\n\nFrédéric Van Roekeghem (born 1961) is a senior French health official.\n\nHe was appointed on September 22, 2004, General Director of the National Workers Health Insurance Fund (CNAMTS), replacement Daniel Lenoir, then appointed in November 2004 to be director of the overall supervising body of the three National health insurance funds. which had been created in August 2004. He served in this position until 2014, when he was succeeded by .\n\nhttp://www.france5.fr/c-dans-l-air/invites/frederic-van-roekeghem-34551\n\n"}
{"id": "40312196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40312196", "title": "Hebrew Communists", "text": "Hebrew Communists\n\nThe Hebrew Communists (, \"Komunistim Ivrim\") were a short-lived political party in Mandate Palestine and Israel. The Hebrew Communists were founded in 1945 by some former members of the Palestine Communist Party (PCP), which had split in 1943. The party operated until after Israeli independence in 1948, at which point it merged with the National Liberation League and MAKEI to form Maki.\n\nThe party was resurrected during the first Knesset when several of Maki's leaders, including Knesset member Eliezer Preminger, were purged soon after the elections in 1949. Rather than vacate his seat for another Maki member, Preminger remained in the Knesset and reformed the Hebrew Communists on 8 June 1949. The party ceased to exist for a second time on 15 August 1949 when Preminger joined Mapam.\n\n"}
{"id": "23931663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23931663", "title": "Higher Institute of National Defence", "text": "Higher Institute of National Defence\n\nThe Higher Institute of National Defence was an organ of the Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea, then of the Khmer Rouge remnants in 1990s, with an advisory role on military issues. It was established in 1985.\n\nWhen Pol Pot left the leadership of the Party of Democratic Kampuchea and of the National Army of Democratic Kampuchea in 1985 for age limits, he was appointed Director of the newly established Higher Institute of National Defence, apparently a \"facade\" position, but actually a very powerful one, since the Institute's role was to sum up the experiences of the guerrilla resistance and to advise the Government and the Army on the new course of actions. Moreover, since Pol Pot was the recognised communist leader of Cambodia his influence did not vanish, and for instance, he was able to order the arrest and execution of former NADK Supreme Commander Son Sen in 1997.\n\nThe Higher Institute ceased to exist with the dissolution of the Khmer Rouge in 1998, but probably its functions were over since Pol Pot's arrest and show trial in 1997.\n"}
{"id": "33520752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33520752", "title": "History of surveillance", "text": "History of surveillance\n\nAlthough current modes and technologies of surveillance seem to suggest that surveillance is a product of the 21st century, there are countless examples of surveillance activities occurring throughout history. \n\nAs Keith Laidler proposes in his book Surveillance Unlimited: How We’ve Become the Most Watched People on Earth, “spying and surveillance are at least as old as civilization itself. The rise of city states and empires […] meant that each needed to know not only the disposition and morale of their enemy, but also the loyalty and general sentiment of their own population.”\n\nIn history, surveillance is often referred to as spying or espionage. Most often, surveillance historically occurred as a means to gather and collect information, supervise the actions of other people (usually enemies), and to use this information to increase ones understanding of the party being spncient times, surveillance occurred most often through the use of an individual spy, or a small group of spies. As technology such as spyglasses, telescopes and radios developed, surveillance technologies continually effected the way in which surveillance occurred. Modern surveillance technologies such CCTV, RFID and GPS help to highlight the extent to which surveillance practices have evolved throughout history.\n\nThere are many possible examples of surveillance found in the Bible. One example found in 2 Samuel, is that of David and Bathsheba found in the second book of Samuel. David, while walking on the roof of his palace, noticed Bathsheba bathing and as he continued to watch her his desire grew, even though she was already the wife of Uriah. In this example, surveillance was used for David’s own personal gains and pleasure rather than for a greater good.\n\nAnother example, as noted by Kieith Laidler, can be found in the Book of Numbers. Here, “details of the information that the spies were required to collect” mostly regarding the land, how many people live on the land, the layout of the towns, the quality of the soil and the presence of trees (Numbers 13: 17-20). Unlike the story of David and Bathsheba, here surveillance is being used for very different means. By collecting information regarding the people and the land, the spies would have been able to determine the strengths and weaknesses of their enemies. This use of surveillance satisfies one of the most basic characteristics of surveillance historically as well as modernly.\n\nAccording to Terry Crowdy in his book \"The Enemy Within: A History of Espionage\":\n\nCrowdy makes an important point by recognizing the fact that the precedent for altering general surveillance practices occurred very early on in History. Although most often spies are \"known as collectors of information, they are often used to disseminate false information in order to deliberately mislead opponents.”\n"}
{"id": "16409281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16409281", "title": "Home of Truth, Utah", "text": "Home of Truth, Utah\n\nHome of Truth is a ghost town located in San Juan County in southeastern Utah, United States. The settlement was a short-lived utopian religious intentional community in the 1930s, led by a spiritualist named Marie Ogden. The Home of Truth started in 1933 with an initial population of 22 people, but grew to around 100 at its peak.\n\nDuring its brief history the town was isolated from the surrounding community socially as well as physically, its residents keeping to themselves in a strict, simple lifestyle. Ogden took over the local newspaper and used it to introduce outsiders to her beliefs. The crisis that led to the downfall of the Home of Truth resulted from her writings about efforts to raise a woman from the dead. The investigations by local authorities and the intense media attention that followed drove most of the members to abandon the group by the end of 1937. A handful of residents continued to occupy Home of Truth until 1977.\n\nToday the empty buildings at Home of Truth, lying on fenced private land, are little-noticed curiosities along Utah State Route 211, seen mainly by visitors to the Needles district of Canyonlands National Park.\n\nThe site of Home of Truth lies about north of Monticello, Utah, and some west of Church Rock. The settlement was spread out along Dry Valley, bounded on the north and south by irregular mountain ridges that come close together at the western end, in a place called Photograph Gap. Utah State Route 211, the road to Newspaper Rock and the entrance to the Needles district of Canyonlands National Park, passes through the site.\n\nMarie Ogden (May 31, 1883 – March 4, 1975) was a wealthy, well-educated widow from Newark, New Jersey. She was prominent and active in community affairs, working for the welfare of the poor and rising to the presidency of the New Jersey State Federation of Women's Clubs. After the death of her husband, Harry Ogden, in 1929, she sought comfort in spiritualism, soon forming an occult group called the School of Truth. Ogden was attracted to the idea that spiritualism could allow her to communicate with her dead husband and learn why he died, as well as to find the answers to life for herself. She briefly joined the early \"League of the Liberators\" organization of spiritualist William Dudley Pelley, whose esoteric spiritual experiences and millennialist teachings resonated with her. In 1932 she became the largest single financial contributor to Pelley's movement, but she parted ways with him over his developing political extremism. Claiming to receive divine revelations through automatic writing on her typewriter, Ogden toured the country lecturing and gathering followers.\n\nWhile on her lecture tour in Boise, Idaho, Ogden announced a revelation directing her to establish a religious colony dedicated to \"the truth\". She returned to New Jersey with no idea of a location for the project, but was convinced it must be in a wilderness area far from city life. Ogden explained that she had received ‘a description and a mental picture of the place and knew it was on virgin soil, far removed from city life,’ as well as in the ‘intermountain country.’ Through friends she learned of available land in San Juan County, Utah, and after visiting the area she made up her mind. She claimed that the location of their commune matched her vision. A group of 21 disciples, mostly from the Boise area, followed her to Dry Valley in southeastern Utah in September 1933. Intending to start a collective farm, the group first tried to buy some irrigated ranch land on Indian Creek, but they could not pay the asking price. Ogden offered the owner membership in the colony and a guarantee of eternal life, but to no avail. They settled on a tract of barren desert near Church Rock—the site, according to Ogden, of Christ's Second Coming—and began to build the \"Home of Truth\".\n\nThe Home of Truth was constructed in three sections spread a few miles apart from east to west. The Outer Portal was made up of several buildings, including a communal house and dormitory. The Middle Portal, largest of the three, was planned to include a chapel made of cobblestones, although the foundation was never even finished. The Inner Portal contained barracks and six houses. Marie Ogden taught that the Inner Portal, where she lived with her daughter Roberta, was located on the exact center of the Earth's axis, and that only those who lived here would be spared the coming calamities of the last days. There were at least 23 buildings scattered throughout Home of Truth, most with simple exteriors of unpainted board and batten or tar paper shingles.\n\nResidents agreed to a strict code of conduct. They surrendered all personal possessions to the group, which provided food, clothing, and shelter. The rules also forbade consumption of alcohol and tobacco. Although the colony raised chickens in the beginning, eating any meat except fish was later prohibited. Ogden even said they must stop planting gardens, but they were still permitted to hire out as laborers to local farmers. Ogden received instructions for the settlement through her typewriter as well as in revelatory trips to the top of nearby Shay Mountain. She taught from the Aquarian Gospel and other theosophical works. Her doctrines included reincarnation, communication with the dead, and asceticism. It is said that she claimed to be the reincarnated Virgin Mary, identifying other group members as reincarnations of Brigham Young and the prophet Nathan. However, this was only reported by newspapers and never verified by credible sources from within the commune. Ogden also handled the colony's financial matters. In 1934, she purchased the local newspaper, the \"San Juan Record\", made herself editor, and added a column in which she promoted her metaphysical ideas. In her first column of “Metaphysical Truths”, printed May 24, 1934, she describes metaphysics as \"that division of philosophy which relates to the science of being and to the hidden, or unseen things, which pertain to our spiritual rather than our material, or physical being which we KNOW because we are more conscious of the physical senses we have allowed to predominate. It also embraces that which tells you how the Universe came to being, what composes the Universe, and how life started to manifest on it. As one writer states: 'It's the science of exploring the Universe outside of the Finite.'\" Additionally, a column called the “Dry Valley News” gave a summary of the goings-on at Home of Truth. She used the press to print pamphlets about her beliefs to distribute out as well.\n\nAll group members were expected to work in common for the settlement. The women did domestic chores, while the men worked the farm and did some prospecting for gold, on a small scale and without much success. Water was scarce, but they installed a windmill-driven water pump and concrete cisterns for irrigating their fields. Members constructed the buildings themselves. There was no electricity or indoor plumbing, consistent with their belief in material simplicity. They also made their own furniture and household goods by hand, supplemented by Ogden's occasional shopping trips to Monticello. Despite this spartan existence, the colony continually added new members, the population growing to around 100 at its height in 1934–5.\n\nIn the beginning, the sect's mostly Mormon neighbors took little notice of the newcomers, generally tolerant of their unorthodox beliefs. Then on February 11, 1935 a member of the group named Edith Peshak died of cancer. She and her husband had joined in search of a promised spiritual cure for her disease. Marie Ogden claimed that Peshak was in a state of purification and could soon be brought back to life. On April 4, 1935, her newspaper column included a section entitled \"The Rebirth of a Soul\", which detailed Ogden's conversations with the dead woman and her beliefs about raising her from the dead. Ogden still had the corpse, which was being washed three times a day in a salt solution and \"fed\" milk and eggs by injection. Rumors spread through the Monticello area, and at last the county sheriff came to Home of Truth in June 1935 to investigate the stories. The authorities found Peshak's body well preserved. They decided to allow the colony to keep it, as they determined it was no health threat, and since a number of people in the area had old Indian mummies found in dry caves.\n\nOver the next two years, as the press continued to publish sensationalized accounts of the events depicting the Home of Truth as a dangerous cult, more than half of the colonists left, disillusioned. In February 1937, Marie Ogden made another announcement that Edith Peshak was about to be restored to life. The investigators returned, insisting that a death certificate must be signed. Ogden continued to claim the woman was not actually dead. After being arrested, Ogden consented to sign the certificate on May 4, 1937, but the authorities still could not find the body. Finally, a former member came forward and confessed to having helped her cremate the corpse shortly after the original investigation, in August 1935. All but seven of Ogden's remaining followers abandoned Home of Truth.\n\nLeft nearly alone, Marie Ogden continued to support herself by publishing the newspaper and by teaching piano lessons to the children of Monticello. In 1949, Ogden sold The San Juan Record. She eventually moved into the San Juan Nursing Home in Blanding, where she died in 1975. The Home of Truth property was privately sold in the 1970s to prevent the government from seizing it to pay for Ogden's care. Her personal papers and guest register were destroyed just before the sale. A few of her followers continued to live at Home of Truth until September 30, 1977, when the new owners sold the remaining contents of the Inner Portal at auction. All three Portals still held locked, dusty buildings, maintained by a caretaker and surrounded by \"No Trespassing\" signs.\n\nAs of 2008 there is nothing left of the Outer Portal, but buildings still stand at the other two. The property owner has worked to preserve the Inner Portal, and has announced plans to allow public tours once the site is restored. Both remaining Portals are fenced off from the road, and a sign reading \"Marie's Place\" hangs over the gate to the Inner Portal, on a ridge just north of State Route 211. A small cemetery holds five graves.\n"}
{"id": "17320308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17320308", "title": "Housing segregation in the United States", "text": "Housing segregation in the United States\n\nHousing segregation is the practice of denying African American or other minority groups equal access to housing through the process of misinformation, denial of realty and financing services, and racial steering. Housing policy in the United States has influenced housing segregation trends throughout history. Key legislation include the National Housing Act of 1934, the GI Bill, and the Fair Housing Act. Factors such as socioeconomic status, spatial assimilation, and immigration contribute to perpetuating housing segregation. The effects of housing segregation include relocation, unequal living standards, and poverty. However, there have been initiatives to combat housing segregation, such as the Section 8 housing program.\n\nIn 1934 the practice of redlining neighborhoods came into existence through the National Housing Act of 1934. This practice, also known as mortgage discrimination, began when the federal government and the newly formed Federal Housing Administration allowed the Home Owners' Loan Corporation to create \"residential security maps\", outlining the level of security for real-estate investments in 239 cities around the United States. On these maps, high-risk areas were outlined in red. Many minority neighborhoods were redlined in these maps, meaning that banks would deny all mortgage capital to people living within them. This contributed to the decay of many of these neighborhoods because the lack of loans for buying or making repairs on the homes made it difficult for these neighborhoods to attract and keep families. Many urban historians point to redlining as one of the main factors for urban disinvestment and the decline of central cities in the middle decades of the 20th century.\n\nThis piece of legislation occurred during the New Deal era and provided the basis for future public housing programs. This act allowed for the creation of around 160,000 units of public housing. Most of these units were made to alleviate the housing difficulties of the poor and working class suffering from the Great Depression. Additionally, this public housing program allowed for the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) to provide various monetary funds to local housing authorities to aid with the building and development of these units. Despite providing low budget housing options, this act created greater racial segregation in housing because the majority of the poor population at the time consisted of minorities.\n\nAt the end of World War II, the GI Bill furthered segregation practices by keeping African Americans out of European American neighborhoods, showing another side to African American housing discrimination. When millions of GIs returned home from overseas, they took advantage of the \"Servicemen's Readjustment Act,\" or the GI Bill. This important document was signed in 1944 by Franklin D. Roosevelt, and gave veterans education and training opportunities, guaranteed loans for home, farm, or business, job finding assistance, and unemployment pay of $20 a week for up to 52 weeks if a veteran could not find a job. This law allowed millions of U.S. soldiers to purchase their first homes with inexpensive mortgages, which meant the huge growth of suburbs and the birth of the ideal of a suburban lifestyle.\n\nAfrican Americans were met with discrimination when trying to purchase a home in the overwhelmingly European American neighborhoods. The realtors would not show these houses to African Americans, and when they did, they would try and talk them out of buying the home. This discrimination was based on the fact that realtors believed they would be losing future business by dealing or listing with African Americans, and that it would be unethical to sell a house in a European American neighborhood to African Americans because it would drive the property values of the surrounding houses down.\n\nBoth redlining and discrimination through the GI Bill relegated most African Americans to a concentrated area within the city, so the declining property values and the higher crime rates could be kept in a contained area. The relegation of African Americans to the neighborhoods that were receiving no support due to redlining practices was a self-fulfilling prophecy that created the high crime slums that the city was afraid of.\n\nThe overt discriminatory practices of refusal of sale and loans continued unabated until at least 1968, when the Fair Housing Act was passed. After this act was passed, outright refusal to sell property to African Americans became rare, given that that behavior could lead to prosecution under the Fair Housing Law. The Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity is charged with administering and enforcing fair housing laws. Any person who believes that they have faced housing discrimination based on their race can file a fair housing complaint.\n\nThe most comprehensive federal fair housing act of its time, this piece of legislation mandated fair housing as a national policy and restricted discriminatory practices. Specifically, discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin was prohibited in the rental, sale, financing, and brokerage of housing or housing services. However, this act did not give the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) a lot of enforcing power. HUD was only allowed to mediate housing discrimination disputes between parties. It did not have the power to file lawsuits or take definitive legal action.\n\nDuring his presidential term, Nixon's federal housing policy undermined the Fair Housing Act. His policy acknowledged that federal law requires nondiscriminatory practices in federal housing matters but did not provide presidential support. Nixon declared that government could not force suburban desegregation or economic/racial integration. In doing so, he secured many suburban votes but further exacerbated the issue of housing inequality by not supporting subsidized housing programs to help desegregation.\n\nThe Equal Credit Opportunity Act provided protection against discrimination from creditors. It stated that creditors could not discriminate against applicants based on race, sex, marital status, religion, ethnicity or age. Designed to supplement the Fair Housing Act in specific forms of housing discrimination, this piece of legislation offered more protection against discrimination in lending practices.\n\nLike the Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974, this piece of legislation was also designed to supplement the Fair Housing Act in specific areas of housing discrimination. This act protected applicants from discrimination through lending institutions by requiring that any financial institution providing federally related mortgage loan disclose data annually. This included reports of the amount and location of loans related to federal housing (by census tract or ZIP code). The purpose of this was to prevent lending discrimination in certain localities.\n\nThe Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 required banks to apply the same anti-discriminatory guidelines to their lending criteria in all circumstances. These acts did not completely stop discriminatory practices, however. The discrimination moved into more subtle techniques, including racial steering and misinformation given to African American prospective buyers. Although these laws exist in theory, they have not accomplished their goal of eradicating discrimination based on race in the housing market. Audits of the housing market in Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, and many other major metropolitan areas have shown discrimination toward African Americans continuing into the 80s, long after the anti-discrimination laws were passed.\nResidential segregation is typically measured by evenness and exposure. Evenness is defined as the relative dispersion of a certain racial group in a metropolitan area whereas exposure is defined as how much a member of a certain racial group is exposed to a member of another racial group. In general, the number of integrated neighborhoods have continued to increase since the passing of the Fair Housing Act in 1968. In addition, the number of exclusively white neighborhoods have been decreasing. Although there has been an increase of a minority population presence in suburbs, residential segregation continues to persist. On average, it is more likely for minority groups to be exposed to mixed neighborhoods than white populations. Residential segregation is not limited to the private housing market. Discriminatory practices also take place within the federal public housing system.\n\nOverall, in the period from 1980–2000, residential segregation between the black and white population has decreased at a greater rate than other minority groups. However, the African American population, currently the second largest minority group in the United States, still experiences the greatest residential segregation compared to other minority groups. The older industrial cities of the Midwest and Northeast, experience the highest levels of black-white residential segregation, while the newer metropolitan areas of the South are experiences lesser levels of black-white residential segregation. The presence of a black population in the suburbs continues to increase with 40% of African Americans currently living in the suburbs.\n\nDue to Immigration to the United States over the past decades, the Latino population has grown exponentially, making Latinos the largest minority group in the United States. After African Americans, Latinos experience the second highest level of residential segregation. From 1980–2000, the level of neighborhood dissimilarity and isolation increased between the Latino population and the white population. Although around 50% of Latinos live in the suburban area, it is projected that with increasing immigration, the divide between Latino and white populations will continue to persist in residential areas.\n\nAsians in the United States are a diverse group with a complex historical background. Chinese Americans first came to the United States in the mid-1800s during the California Gold Rush, and Japanese Americans emigrated to the United States in the late 1800s as indentured servants. These populations faced systemic discrimination forcing them to live close together, particularly segregating in national origin-specific groups in major cities. Asian immigration to the US then increased in the 1960s after reform and passage of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965. Due to immigration to the United States over the past decades, the Asian population has grown considerably, making Asians the third largest minority group in the United States. Similar to the Latino and Black minority groups, the Asian minority group experiences high levels of isolation and dissimilarity to their white counterparts. From 1980–2000, these levels have only increased. Currently 55% of Asians live in the suburban area, but their levels of isolation from their White counterparts have increased over time despite residential mobility. Several factors can contribute to residential isolation including recent immigration status, level of English language proficiency, and level of acculturation to American society. Socioeconomic status can also contribute to residential segregation, and Chinatowns in the United States continue to represent a large concentration of Asian poverty.\n\nThe Fair Housing Act of 1968 and the Housing for Older Persons Act of 1995 allow residential communities to restrict residency to the senior. These communities are set up to accommodate older individuals who dislike having young residents as neighbors.\n\nThe relegation of African Americans to certain contained neighborhoods continues today. The cycle of neighborhood disinvestment followed by gentrification and dislocation of the minority has made it difficult for African Americans to establish themselves, build equity, and try to break out into suburban neighborhoods. If they have the means to relocate, the neighborhoods they relocate to are most likely populated by European American people who support open housing laws in theory, but become uncomfortable and relocate if they are faced with a rising Black population in their own neighborhood. This white flight creates an overwhelmingly African American neighborhood, and then disinvestment begins anew. All of these subtle discriminatory practices leave the metropolitan African American population with few options, forcing them to remain in disinvested neighborhoods with rising crime, gang activity, and dilapidated housing.\n\nNeighborhood disinvestment is a systematic withdrawal of capital and neglect of public services by the city. Public services may include schools; building, street, and park maintenance; garbage collection and transportation. Absentee landlordism and mortgage redlining also characterize disinvestment. As redlining prevents households from owning, they have no choice but to rent from landlords that neglect property and charge high rent. These factors allow the devalorization cycle to occur in a neighborhood, eventually leading to the reclamation and transformation of the neighborhood, uprooting the poor residents who have no equity to use for relocation.\n\nA deeper look into disinvestment in the community can be termed devalorization. This is when neighborhood decline is analyzed by emphasizing the profit taking of realtors, bankers, and speculators which systematically reduces the worth or value of housing. The devalorization of a neighborhood begins to occur when the city decides to begin disinvesting in it, and the disproportionate influx of minorities shift the neighborhood from mostly live-in owners to absentee landlords. These landlords buy up the houses during white flight from the neighborhood and rent them to the minorities moving in for a high price. In Albina, this process was shown through intensive white flight from the neighborhood, and large redevelopment projects that destroyed the heart of the African American community for the remodeling of a veteran's hospital. This project relocated many African Americans into an even smaller area, creating an overcrowded, volatile environment. Most of the community that survived did not own their homes, and the absentee landlords neglected to make repairs on their properties. The relocation of so many African Americans from southern Albina because of the hospital project caused more white flight on the northern side of Albina, creating more opportunities for landlords use the tactic of blockbusting, or using the fear of racial turnover and property value decline to convince homeowners to sell at below-market prices, allowing the landlords to then inflate the cost of the property and extort the new African American home buyers.\n\nThere is an existence of a dual housing market that results in unequal housing opportunities for different populations of people. The basis of the dual housing market model is that similar housing opportunities are available to different racial groups at different prices. There are many explanations for the existence of a dual housing market. One theory explains the dual housing market through racial steering. This occurs when real estate brokers steer their clients to specific geographic locations of available housing based on race. Although racial discrimination in housing market processes is outlawed by several court decisions and legislation, there is evidence that it still occurs. For example, an HUD Housing Market Practice survey found that African Americans felt discriminated against in the renting and/or buying process of housing. Institutional factors, such as realtor agencies withholding housing information or financial institutions denying mortgages, further perpetuate the effects of the dual housing market model.\n\nAnother explanation of the existence of a dual housing market is the availability of housing units, either for sale or for rent, for minority groups. Oftentimes, price discriminations results from price fluctuations of property based on the existing demographic of residence in a neighborhood. Racial preference affects the available geographic spaces open to certain minority groups. For example, African Americans are disproportionately found in a small distribution of suburban communities.\n\nOne theory of the cause of residential segregation is the difference in income between minority groups and their white counterparts. The basis of this theory stems from purchasing power: the higher the income, the more likely minority groups are to move to better neighborhoods which in turn results in more integrated neighborhoods. In other words, there seems to be an inverse relationship between a minority group's socioeconomic status and the minority group's level of residential segregation. Many argue that residential segregation occurs because minority groups, particularly immigrants, do not have the wealth or income to purchase homes in more affluent and predominantly white neighborhoods. Although there is a definite relationship between socioeconomic status and residential segregation, the effect of this relationship is different among minority groups.\n\nIn terms of location, poverty-stricken communities tend to reside in the inner cities while affluent communities tend to reside in the suburbs. In addition, better neighborhoods contain better educational services and easier access to various occupations. This spatial and economic segregation further perpetuates residential segregation. Across all minority groups, there is a residential gap based on income. Residential segregation between the rich and the poor, occurring at different rates, takes place across the board.\n\nAfrican Americans and Latinos, compared to their white counterpart, experience a greater difference in income, education, and occupation levels. On the other hand, Asians experience a lesser difference in terms of income, education, and occupation levels when compared to their white counterpart. These factors, education and occupation, influence income and purchasing power of an individual. For African Americans, Asians, and Latinos, higher income resulted in less segregation from their white counterpart whereas lower income resulted in greater segregation from their white counterpart. However, that an increase in socioeconomic status resulted in a greater decrease in segregation for Latinos and Asians and a lesser decrease in segregation for African Americans suggests that socioeconomic status alone cannot explain residential segregation.\n\nRecent reforms and policies on Immigration to the United States have caused an influx of immigrants from Latin America and Asia. The spatial assimilation theory states that immigrants are more likely to experience residential segregation because of a variety of factors such as social networks, family, income, and cultural preference. Upon moving to a new country, immigrants are more likely to relocate to an area where they have feel comfortable and accepted. In addition, their income may only allow them to occupy spaces that are more ethnically diverse. The three generation model is a theory that attempts to explain assimilation across generations. It states that over time, as the children of immigrants become more acculturated, they begin to disperse geographically and assimilate themselves in suburban neighborhoods. Therefore, there is a correlation between residential segregation and the intergenerational process of assimilation.\n\nThe acculturation of immigrant children also relates to the socioeconomic status of the parent or parents. As the children become more acculturated to the customs of the host country, they become more comfortable with the cultural norms and improve their speaking abilities. A higher socioeconomic status allows them to disperse from the ethnically concentrated community and move into neighborhoods with better services and quality housing. This process across generations eventually results in the continued desegregation of more affluent, predominantly white, suburban neighborhoods.\n\nAmong all minority groups, foreign-born immigrants experience greater segregation from whites than native-born groups. However, assimilation varies among minority groups. Overall, Latino-white segregation is higher than Asian-white segregation. Black-white segregation is the highest when comparing all minority groups. New immigrants tend to experience higher levels of segregation than immigrants that have lived in the host country for a while.\n\nOnce their old neighborhood has been gentrified, many of the residents are forced to relocate, if they have not already done so. When hunting for a new residence, African Americans will more than likely encounter discrimination on some level. Audits performed by the US Department of Housing and Urban Development and a later Housing Development Study suggest that if realtors have a chance to discriminate, they usually do. These studies analyzed the amount of cases where whites were given more information about available units or financing options or shown extra units in proportion to African Americans. The results showed that whites were systematically favored for both rental and sales units throughout metropolitan areas in the United States. Racial steering was also taken into account during these audits, and it was shown through the results that African Americans were shown homes in areas that had more minorities, lower home values, or lower median incomes that the homes that were shown to European Americans, even if their economic position was the same. It was shown that about one in every three encounters, African Americans were systematically steered to these non-European American neighborhoods.\n\nThis segregation is not self-imposed. That is, African Americans do not prefer to live in neighborhoods that are overwhelmingly Black. Survey evidence from a Detroit Area Survey from 1976 shows that African Americans strongly favor the desegregation of the United States, with the overall ideal neighborhood being 50% black and 50% white. Whites, on the other hand, favor neighborhood composition that is dominated by whites. In the same survey, about one-quarter of the whites surveyed said they would feel uncomfortable if their neighborhood exceeded 8% Black. Once the neighborhood reached 21% Black, almost half of the whites surveyed said they would feel uncomfortable.\n\nOne of the important social effects on the individual that results from residential segregation is the influence on behavior. Segregated communities tend to slow the rate of assimilation, especially in the ability to speak English, which is considered a primary aspect of assimilating in the United States. The ability to speak English has been shown to result in the increased rate of desegregation in communities. Another behavioral influence of residential segregation is the effect on social networks created. Friendships and marriages tend to occur at a higher probability among people living in close proximities. In other words, people who are spatially separate are less likely to form lasting relationships. A negative behavioral influence of residential segregation is the perpetuation of violence. Specifically with gang activity, the higher the level of segregation, the greater the density of altercations between rival gangs.\n\nMany studies have shown that racial or ethnic minority neighborhoods are disproportionally affected by health issues related to the environment, such as a lack of healthy food options, a lack of available pharmacies, and an increased number of advertisements for alcohol and tobacco. In addition, there has been a trend over the past few years of a concentration of ethnic minorities in low-income urban neighborhoods. One of the factors associated with this rise in urban, low-income neighborhoods is residential segregation. Many of these urban, low-income neighborhoods experience unequal accessibility to services compared to their sub-urban counterparts, which often results in an unhealthy food environment.\n\nOne of the main reasons for the increasing presence of unhealthy food environments in these neighborhoods is the emergence of food deserts. Several theories regarding the rise of food deserts in low-income neighborhoods are circulating in the literature. One of the prevailing theories states that food deserts resulted from the development of larger supermarkets in affluent areas and the closure of small, independent groceries stores that could not compete economically. Another theory states that supermarket development shifted spatially with the rise of income segregation. As more the more affluent middle-class moved to the suburbs, many inner city grocery stores closed from lack of business. Another prevailing theory is the idea of supermarket redlining, the unwillingness of supermarkets to open stores in the inner city due to various economic reasons.\n\nThis overall development of unhealthy food environments in low-income urban neighborhoods affects the development of health in the community members. The lack of healthy food options forces these residents to purchase and consume energy dense food options such as meals from fast-food restaurants. These residents are also forced to purchase highly processed foods because of the lack of fresh food options. In addition, food at independently owned grocery stores are often 10-60% more expensive than food offered at large chain supermarkets.\n\nHousing segregation has an effect on the quality of education received by community members. Specifically, the spatial separation of specific populations due to housing segregation leads to geographic concentrations of quality education. For example, public schools in suburban areas are usually more equipped with resources, have a higher percentage quality teachers, and produce a larger amount of successful students. The negative effects of housing segregation on quality of education is demonstrated by the lack of integration and diversity in schools. The Equality of Educational Opportunity study in 1966 found that racial composition of schools impacted student success more than the resources available to schools. This cycle of unequal educational opportunities is perpetuated by the real estate market. Areas with quality school systems usually contain higher housing prices and higher property taxes. In addition, these areas are typically racially and economically homogenous.\n\nOne of the primary reasons of unequal educational opportunities is the low accessibility to the suburbs by minority groups due to lack of income. The suburban areas, containing higher quality education, are less accessible to low-income minority groups. Another reason of unequal education opportunities is the rise in options of schooling for parents. In addition to public schools, parents with enough purchasing power can opt to send their children to private schools, magnet schools and even home school. Other options include charter schools. These various educational options contribute to the relationship between school quality and school enrollment demographics. Quality of education also affects the outcomes of community members. In other words, the kind of education children receive plays a major role in economic opportunities in their future. Students surrounded by other educated members of the community often experience more success with school. Furthermore, community environment and housing quality affect the drop-out rate of students.\n\nHousing segregation affects the development of concentrated areas of poverty, especially among racial minorities groups. Housing segregation interacts with existing poverty rates among minority groups, especially African Americans and Latinos, to perpetuate the cycle of poor people moving into concentrated areas of poverty. These concentrated areas of poverty often experience a lack of public services and infrastructure. Studies have shown that these residential areas often have less employment opportunities, unequal schooling environments, and increased health risks. These factors combine to perpetuate poverty and prevent social and spatial mobility. The lack of employment opportunities come in many different forms such as decreased accessibility to jobs because of transportation or unavailability of jobs due to location. The result of unequal economic opportunities is the increase in income segregation. This further perpetuates poverty because low-income residents experience higher rent burden which forces them to accept low quality housing. This cycle of poverty also extends between generations. This means that children living in low-income neighborhoods are more likely to experience poverty and the same living standards as their parents' generation.\n\nIn addition to income segregation, the effects of housing segregation on the development of concentrated areas of poverty are also associated with class and racial segregation. Class segregation plays a role in the concentration of poverty areas in that affluent classes of society have a desire to spatially separate themselves from the less fortune, poverty-stricken class. As a result, they move towards more affluent neighborhoods leaving the poor concentrated in a certain area. Racial segregation also plays a role in the concentration of poverty areas. In fact, the degree of housing segregation due to racial differences is greater than the degree of housing segregation due to class differences. The three factors of income, class, and racial segregation can explain the increasing concentration of poverty in certain areas. All three of these factors can be associated with the causes and effects of housing segregation.\n\nThe relationship of community members is often affected by their physical surroundings. Diverse neighborhoods containing various racial and ethnic groups experience many barriers to community collectivism, such as culture, economic background, and fundamental values. However, having a strong community building strategy can help break down barriers of segregation. Leaders of community strong pro-diversity organizations stress the need for a sense of community among members. Creating a diverse and stable neighborhood requires focusing on economic development, community safety, and education.\n\nFocusing on economic development means creating a market in the existing neighborhood. This not only creates jobs for community members but also inhibits disinvestment, a common cause of housing segregation, in neighborhoods. Community safety strongly influences the perception of the stability of a neighborhood. Active participation of community members in the safety of their neighborhood increases community efficacy because there is a perception of controlled crime which, in turn, gives people a sense of control over their quality of life. Education is also related to the positive, or negative, perception of a neighborhood. Schools not only foster safe environments for cross-cultural cooperation but also influence community attitudes towards race, ethnicity, and diversity.\n\nTraditionally, public housing programs perpetuate housing segregation by forcing minority populations in low-income neighborhoods containing lower quality housing options. However, the Section 8 housing program combats this problem by providing households with housing certificates/vouchers that can be used to rent units anywhere in the private market at a moderate price. In other words, low-income families have the chance to move into affordable and higher quality housing. This option of choice and mobility offers a solution to the social and economic isolation of minority populations. In addition, families using these housing vouchers are more likely than public housing residents to live in racially and economically integrated neighborhoods.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development federal housing assistance program is the nations largest housing assistance program. Recipients of the voucher/certificate contribute 30% of their income to paying the rent and the government subsidizes the difference. The program is not only less costly because it relies on the existing housing market, but also more likely to offer affordable and quality housing to participants. This program contrasts previous housing programs which often clumped federally funded families into low-income urban neighborhoods. This program is extremely effective, with the majority of participants living in areas that are less than 20% poor.\n\nDespite this effectiveness, there is still a racial disparity among participant success. Overall, participants across all races are more likely to live in low-poverty, racially heterogenous neighborhoods compared to their counterparts in public housing. However, African American and Latino recipients are much more likely to live in high poverty areas compared to white recipients.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16652449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16652449", "title": "Human rights in Iran", "text": "Human rights in Iran\n\nThe state of human rights in Iran has been criticized both by Iranians and international human rights activists, writers, and NGOs since long before the formation of the current state of Iran. The United Nations General Assembly and the Human Rights Commission have condemned prior and ongoing abuses in Iran in published critiques and several resolutions. The government of Iran is criticized both for restrictions and punishments that follow the Islamic Republic's constitution and law, and for actions that do not, such as the torture, rape, and killing of political prisoners, and the beatings and killings of dissidents and other civilians.\n\nWhile the monarchy under the rule of the shahs had a generally abysmal human rights record according to most Western watchdog organizations, the current Islamic Republic does not have a positive reputation either, with its human rights record under the administration of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad considered to have \"deteriorated markedly,\" according to Human Rights Watch. Following the 2009 election protests there were reports of killing of demonstrators, the torture, rape and killing of detained protesters, and the arrest and publicized mass trials of dozens of prominent opposition figures in which defendants \"read confessions that bore every sign of being coerced.\" In October 2012 the United Nations human rights office stated Iranian authorities had engaged in a “severe clampdown” on journalists and human rights advocates.\n\nRestrictions and punishments in the Islamic Republic of Iran which violate international human rights norms include harsh penalties for crimes, punishment of \"victimless crimes\" such as fornication and homosexuality, execution of offenders under 18 years of age, restrictions on freedom of speech and the press (including the imprisonment of journalists and political cartoonists), and restrictions on freedom of religion and gender equality in the Islamic Republic's Constitution (especially attacks on members of the Bahá'í religion). Reported abuses falling outside of the laws of the Islamic Republic that have been condemned include the execution of thousands of political prisoners in 1988, and the widespread use of torture to extract repudiations by prisoners of their cause and comrades on video for propaganda purposes. Also condemned has been firebombings of newspaper offices and attacks on political protesters by \"quasi-official organs of repression,\" particularly \"Hezbollah,\" and the murder of dozens of government opponents in the 1990s, allegedly by \"rogue elements\" of the government.\n\nOfficials of the Islamic Republic have responded to criticism by stating that Iran has \"the best human rights record\" in the Muslim world; that it is not obliged to follow \"the West's interpretation\" of human rights; and that the Islamic Republic is a victim of \"biased propaganda of enemies\" which is \"part of a greater plan against the world of Islam\". According to Iranian officials, those who human rights activists say are peaceful political activists being denied due process rights are actually guilty of offenses against the national security of the country, and those protesters claiming Ahmadinejad stole the 2009 election are actually part of a foreign-backed plot to topple Iran's leaders.\n\nIn 2018, the US and European Union imposed sanctions on several Iranian groups and officials it accused of human rights abuses.\n\nThe Imperial State of Iran, the government of Iran during the Pahlavi dynasty, lasted from 1925 to 1979. During that time two monarchs Reza Shah Pahlavi and his son Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi employed secret police, torture, and executions to stifle political dissent.\n\nThe Pahlavi dynasty has sometimes been described as a \"royal dictatorship\". or \"one man rule\". \nAccording to one history of the use of torture by the state in Iran, abuse of prisoners varied at times during the Pahlavi reign.\n\nThe reign of Reza Shah was authoritarian and dictatorial at a time when authoritarian governments and dictatorships were common in the region and the world and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was some years away. Freedom of the press, workers' rights, and political freedoms were restricted under Reza Shah. Independent newspapers were closed down, political partieseven the loyal Revival party were banned. The government banned all trade unions in 1927, and arrested 150 labor organizers between 1927 and 1932.\n\nPhysical force was used against some kinds of prisoners common criminals, suspected spies, and those accused of plotting regicide. Burglars in particular were subjected to the bastinado (beating the soles of the feet), and the strappado (suspended in the air by means of a rope tied around the victims arms) to \"reveal their hidden loot\". Suspected spies and assassins were \"beaten, deprived of sleep, and subjected to the qapani\" (the binding of arms tightly behind the back) which sometimes caused a joint to crack. But for political prisoners who were primarily Communists there was a \"conspicuous absence of torture\" under Reza Shah's rule. The main form of pressure was solitary confinement and the withholding of \"books, newspapers, visitors, food packages, and proper medical care\". While often threatened with the qapani, political prisoners \"were rarely subjected to it.\"\n\nMohammad Reza became monarch after his father was deposed by Soviets and Americans in 1941. Political prisoners (mostly Communists) were released by the occupying powers, and the shah (crown prince at the time) no longer had control of the parliament. But after an attempted assassination of the Shah in 1949, he was able to declare martial law, imprison communists and other opponents, and restrict criticism of the royal family in the press.\n\nFollowing the pro-Shah coup d'état that overthrew the Prime Minister Mohammad Mosaddegh in 1953, the Shah again cracked down on his opponents, and political freedom waned. He outlawed Mosaddegh's political group the National Front, and arrested most of its leaders. Over 4000 political activists of the Tudeh party were arrested, (including 477 in the armed forces), forty were executed, another 14 died under torture and over 200 were sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nIn 1971, a guerrilla attack on a gendarmerie post (where three police were killed and two guerrillas freed, known as the \"Siahkal incident\") sparked \"an intense guerrilla struggle\" against the government, and harsh government countermeasures. Guerrillas embracing \"armed struggle\" to overthrow the Shah, and inspired by international Third World anti-imperialist revolutionaries (Mao Zedong, Ho Chi Minh, and Che Guevara), were quite active in the first half of the 1970s when hundreds of them died in clashes with government forces and dozens of Iranians were executed. According to Amnesty International, the Shah carried out at least 300 political executions.\n\nTorture was used to locate arms caches, safe houses and accomplices of the guerrillas, in addition to its possible ability to persuade enemies of the state to become supporters, instead.\n\nIn 1975, the human rights group Amnesty International whose membership and international influence grew greatly during the 1970s issued a report on treatment of political prisoners in Iran that was \"extensively covered in the European and American Press\". By 1976, this repression was softened considerably thanks to publicity and scrutiny by \"numerous international organizations and foreign newspapers\" as well as the newly elected President of the United States, Jimmy Carter.\n\nDuring the 1978–79 overthrow of the Pahlavi government, protestors were fired upon by troops and prisoners were executed. The real and imaginary human rights violations contributed directly to the Shah's demise, (although some have argued so did his scruples in not violating human rights more as urged by his generals).\n\nThe 1977 deaths of the popular and influential modernist Islamist leader Ali Shariati and the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's son Mostafa were believed to be assassinations perpetrated by SAVAK by many Iranians. On 8 September 1978, (Black Friday) troops fired on religious demonstrators in Zhaleh (or Jaleh) Square. The clerical leadership announced that \"thousands have been massacred by Zionist troops\" (i.e. rumored Israel troops aiding the Shah), Michel Foucault reported 4000 had been killed, and another European journalist reported that the military left behind a `carnage`.\n\nThe Islamic revolution is thought to have a significantly worse human rights record than the Pahlavi Dynasty it overthrew. According to political historian Ervand Abrahamian, “whereas less than 100 political prisoners had been executed between 1971 and 1979, more than 7900 were executed between 1981 and 1985. ... the prison system was centralized and drastically expanded ... Prison life was drastically worse under the Islamic Republic than under the Pahlavis. One who survived both writes that four months under [warden] Ladjevardi took the toll of four years under SAVAK. In the prison literature of the Pahlavi era, the recurring words had been ‘boredom’ and ‘monotony’. In that of the Islamic Republic, they were ‘fear’, ‘death’, ‘terror’, ‘horror’, and most frequent of all ‘nightmare’ (‘kabos’).”\nHowever, the vast majority of killings of political prisoners occurred in the first decade of the Islamic Republic, after which violent repression lessened. With the rise of the Iranian reform movement and the election of moderate Iranian president Mohammad Khatami in 1997 numerous moves were made to modify the Iranian civil and penal codes in order to improve the human rights situation. The predominantly reformist parliament drafted several bills allowing increased freedom of speech, gender equality, and the banning of torture. These were all dismissed or significantly watered down by the Guardian Council and leading conservative figures in the Iranian government at the time.\n\nAccording to \"The Economist\" magazine:\n\nThe Tehran spring of ten years ago has now given way to a bleak political winter. The new government continues to close down newspapers, silence dissenting voices and ban or censor books and websites. The peaceful demonstrations and protests of the Khatami era are no longer tolerated: in January 2007 security forces attacked striking bus drivers in Tehran and arrested hundreds of them. In March police beat hundreds of men and women who had assembled to commemorate International Women's Day.\n\nSince the founding of the Islamic Republic, human rights violations of religious minorities have been the subject of resolutions and decisions by the United Nations and its human rights bodies, the Council of Europe, European Parliament and United States Congress.\nAccording to The Minority Rights Group, in 1985 Iran became \"the fourth country ever in the history of the United Nations\" to be placed on the agenda of the General Assembly because of \"the severity and the extent of this human rights record\".\nFrom 1984 to 2001, United Nations Commission on Human Rights (UNCHR) passed resolutions about human rights violations against Iran's religious minorities especially the Bahá'ís. The UNCHR did not pass such a resolution in 2002, when the government of Iran extended an invitation to the UN \"Working Group on Arbitrary Detention and the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression\" to visit the country and investigate complaints. However, according to the organization Human Rights Watch, when these officials did visit the country, found human rights conditions wanting and issued reports critical of the Islamic government, not only did the government not implement their recommendations\", it retaliated \"against witnesses who testified to the experts.\"\n\nIn 2003 the resolutions began again with Canada sponsoring a resolution criticizing Iran's \"confirmed instances of torture, stoning as a method of execution and punishment such as flogging and amputations,\" following the death of an Iranian-born Canadian citizen, Zahra Kazemi, in an Iranian prison. The resolution has passed in the UN General Assembly every year since.\n\nThe European Union has also criticized the Islamic Republic's human rights record, expressing concern in 2005, 2007 and on 6 October 2008 presenting a message to Iran's ambassador in Paris expressing concern over the worsening human rights situation in Iran. On 13 October 2005, the European Parliament voted to adopt a resolution condemning the Islamic government's disregard of the human rights of its citizens. Later that year, Iran's government announced it would suspend dialogue with the European Union concerning human rights in Iran. On 9 February 2010, the European Union and United States issued a joint statement condemning \"continuing human rights violations\" in Iran.\n\nLate November 2018, a group of UN human rights experts including Javid Rehman U.N. Special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Iran and four others experts concern about Farhad Meysami’s situation who has been on hunger strike since August.\n\nOne observation made by non-governmental sources of the state of human rights in the Islamic Republic is that it is not so severe that the Iranian public is afraid to criticize its government publicly to strangers. In Syria \"taxi driver[s] rarely talk politics; the Iranian[s] will talk of nothing else.\"\n\nA theory of why human rights abuses in the Islamic Republic are not as severe as Syria, Afghanistan (under the Taliban), or Iraq (under Saddam Hussein) comes from the American journalist Elaine Sciolino who speculated that Shiite Islam thrives on debate and discussion ... So freedom of thought and expression is essential to the system, at least within the top circles of religious leadership. And if the mullahs can behave that way among themselves in places like the holy city of Qom, how can the rest of a modern-day society be told it cannot think and explore the world of experience for itself?\n\nIranian officials have not always agreed on the state of human rights in Iran. In April 2004, reformist president Mohammad Khatami stated \"we certainly have political prisoners [in Iran] and ... people who are in prison for their ideas.\" Two days later, however, he was contradicted by Judiciary chief Ayatollah Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi, saying \"we have no political prisoners in Iran\" because Iranian law does not mention such offenses, ... \"The world may consider certain cases, by their nature, political crimes, but because we do not have a law in this regard, these are considered ordinary offenses.\"\n\nIran's president President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and other government officials have compared Iran's human rights record favorably to other countries, particularly countries that have criticized Iran's record. In a 2008 speech, he replied to a question about human rights by stating that Iran has fewer prisoners than America and that \"the human rights situation in Iran is relatively a good one, when compared ... with some European countries and the United States.\"\n\nIn a 2007 speech to the United Nations, he commented on human rights only to say \"certain powers\" (unnamed) were guilty of violating it, \"setting up secret prisons, abducting persons, trials and secret punishments without any regard to due process, ... \" Islamic Republic officials have also attacked Israeli violations of Palestinian human rights.\n\nAmong the explanations for violations of human rights in the Islamic Republic are:\n\nThe legal and governing principles upon which the Islamic Republic of Iran is based differ in some respects from the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\n\nThe Iranian fundamental law or constitution calls for equal rights among races, ethnic groups (article 19). It calls for gender equality (article 20), and protection of the rights of women (article 21); freedom of expression (article 23); freedom of press and communication (article 24) and freedom of association (article 27). Three recognized religious minorities \"are free to perform their religious rites and ceremonies.\"\n\nHowever, along with these guarantees the constitution includes what one scholar calls \"ominous Catch-22s\", such as “All laws and regulations must conform to the principles of Islam.” The rights of women, of expression, of communication and association, of the press are followed by modifiers such as \"within the limits of the law\", \"within the precepts of Islam\", \"unless they attack the principles of Islam\", \"unless the Law states otherwise\", \"as long as it does not interfere with the precepts of Islam.\"\n\nThe Iranian penal code is derived from the Shari'a and is not always in compliance with international norms of human rights.\n\nThe Iranian penal code distinguishes two types of punishments: \"Hudud\" (fixed punishment) and the \"Qisas\" (retribution) or \"Diyya\" (Blood money or Talion Law). Punishments falling within the category of Hududs are applied to people committing offenses against the State, such as adultery, alcohol consumption, burglary or petty theft, rebellions against Islamic authority, apostasy and homosexual intercourse (considered contrary to the spirit of Islam). Punishments include death by hanging, stoning or decapitation, amputation or flagellation. Victims of private crimes, such as murder or rape, can exercise a right to retribution (Qisas) or decide to accept \"blood money\" (Diyyah or Talion Law).\n\nFollowing traditional shariah punishment for thieves, courts in Iran have sometimes sentenced offenders to amputation of both \"the right hand and left foot cut off, making it difficult, if not impossible, for the condemned to walk, even with a cane or crutches.\" This was the fate, for example, of five convicted robbers in the Sistan-Baluchistan Province in January 2008 according to the news agency ISNA.\n\nShariah also includes stoning and explicitly states that stones used must be small enough to not kill instantly. As of July 2010, the Iranian penal code authorizes stoning as a punishment. However, Iran says a new draft of the penal code that has removed stoning is currently under review by the Iranian parliament and has yet to be ratified.\n\nThe use of stoning as a punishment may be declining or banned altogether. In December 2002, Ayatollah Shahroudi, head of the judicial system, reportedly sent judges a memorandum requesting the suspension of stoning and asking them to choose other forms of sanctions. In 2005, Amnesty International reported that Iran was about to execute a woman by stoning for adultery. Amnesty urged Tehran to give reprieve to the woman. Her sentence is currently on hold pending \"consideration by the pardons commission.\" According to the Iranian officials \"Stoning has been dropped from the penal code for a long time, and in the Islamic Republic, we do not see such punishments being carried out\", said judiciary spokesman Jamal Karimirad. He added that if stoning sentences were passed by lower courts, they were overruled by higher courts and \"no such verdicts have been carried out.\" According to Amnesty International, in July 2010, the Iranian parliament began considering a revision to its penal code that would ban stoning as a punishment.\n\nThe Iranian legislation does not accord the same rights to women as to men in all areas of the law.\n\n\nIn the inheritance law of the Islamic Republic there are several instances where the woman is entitled to half the inheritance of the man. For example:\n\nAccording to Zahra Eshraghi, granddaughter of Ayatollah Khomeini, \n\"Discrimination here [in Iran] is not just in the constitution. As a woman, if I want to get a passport to leave the country, have surgery, even to breathe almost, I must have permission from my husband.\"\n\nThe 1985 press law prohibits \"discourse harmful to the principles of Islam\" and \"public interest\", as referred to in Article 24 of the constitution, which according to Human Rights Watch provides \"officials with ample opportunity to censor, restrict, and find offense.\"\n\nHuman Rights Watch released a report about Iran's violation of human rights. The Iranian authorities have arrested and detained Shahnaz Karimbeigi whose son, Mostafa, was shot and killed during protests on December 27, 2009, linked to the disputed 2009 presidential election. Accordingly, Karimbeigi participated in many gatherings with the mothers of other victims of the 2009 crackdown to demand justice for their loved ones; she organized public support for the families of imprisoned activists; and she was one of several advocates using social media campaigns to support Arash Sadeghi, a human rights defender sentenced to a 15-year jail term. On the morning of January 25, she was arrested at her workplace and then denied access to a lawyer. The authorities searched her apartment and seized all her electronic devices, including her laptop as well as threatened Karimbeigi’s daughter and husband over the phone and summoned them for several hours of interrogation at the ministry's\" Follow-Up Office\".\n\nThe constitution recognizes the freedom of Zoroastrian, Jewish, and Christian Iranians to perform their religious rites and ceremonies, and accords non-Shia Muslims \"full respect\" (article 12). However the Bahá'í Faith is banned. The Islamic Republic has stated Baha'is or their leadership are \"an organized establishment linked to foreigners, the Zionists in particular,\" that threaten Iran. The International Federation for Human Rights and others believe the government's policy of persecution of Bahá'ís stems from some Bahá'í teachings challenging traditional Islamic religious doctrines particularly the finality of Muhammad's prophethood and place Bahá'ís outside the Islamic faith. Irreligious people are also not recognized and do not have basic rights such as education, becoming member of parliament etc.\n\n\"Hudud\" statutes grant different punishments to Muslims and non-Muslims for the same crime. In the case of adultery, for example, a Muslim man who is convicted of committing adultery with a Muslim woman receives 100 lashes; the sentence for a non-Muslim man convicted of adultery with a Muslim woman is death. In 2004, inequality of \"blood money\" (diyeh) was eliminated, and the amount paid by a perpetrator for the death or wounding a Christian, Jew, or Zoroastrian man, was made the same as that for a Muslim. However, the International Religious Freedom Report reports that Baha'is were not included in the provision and their blood is considered \"Mobah\", (i.e. it can be spilled with impunity).\n\nFreedom to convert from Islam to another religion (apostasy) is prohibited, and may be punishable by death. Article 23 of the constitution states, \"the investigation of individuals' beliefs is forbidden, and no one may be molested or taken to task simply for holding a certain belief.\" But another article, 167, gives judges the discretion \"to deliver his judgment on the basis of authoritative Islamic sources and authentic fatwa (rulings issued by qualified clerical jurists).\" The founder of the Islamic Republic, Islamic cleric Ruhollah Khomeini, who was a grand Ayatollah, ruled \"that the penalty for conversion from Islam, or apostasy, is death.\"\n\nAt least two Iranians Hashem Aghajari and Hasan Yousefi Eshkevari have been arrested and charged with apostasy (though not executed), not for converting to another faith but for statements and/or activities deemed by courts of the Islamic Republic to be in violation of Islam, but which appear to outsiders to be simply expressions of political/religious reformism. Hashem Aghajari, was found guilty of apostasy for a speech urging Iranians to \"not blindly follow\" Islamic clerics; Hassan Youssefi Eshkevari was charged with apostasy for attending the reformist-oriented 'Iran After the Elections' Conference in Berlin Germany which was disrupted by anti-government demonstrators.\n\nThe small Protestant Christian minority in Iran have been subject to Islamic \"government suspicion and hostility\" according to Human Rights Watch at least in part because of their \"readiness to accept and even seek out Muslim converts\" as well as their Western origins. In the 1990s, two Muslim converts to Christianity who had become ministers were sentenced to death for apostasy and other charges.\n\nLate November, 2018 prison warden Qarchak women prison in Varamin, near the capital Tehran attacked and bit three Dervish religious minority prisoners when they demanded their confiscated belongings back.\n\nIn a 2008 report, the organization Human Rights Watch complained that \"broadly worded `security laws`\" in Iran are used to ”to arbitrarily suppress and punish individuals for peaceful political expression, association, and assembly, in breach of international human rights treaties to which Iran is party.\" For example, \"connections to foreign institutions, persons, or sources of funding\" are enough to bring criminal charges such as \"undermining national security\" against individuals.\n\nAhmad Batebi, a demonstrator in the July 1999 Student demonstrations in Iran, was given a death sentence for \"propaganda against the Islamic Republic System.\" (His sentence was later reduced to 15, and then ten years imprisonment.) A photograph of Batebi holding a bloody shirt aloft was printed on the cover of \"The Economist\" magazine.\n\nDespite signing the Convention on the Rights of the Child, Iran, according to human rights groups, is the world's largest executioner of juvenile offenders.\nAs of May 2009, there were at least 137 known juvenile offenders awaiting execution in Iran, but the total number could be much higher as many death penalty cases in Iran are believed to go unreported. Of the 43 child offenders recorded as having been executed since 1990, 11 were still under the age of 18 at the time of their execution while the others were either kept on death row until they had reached 18 or were convicted and sentenced after reaching that age. Including at least one 13-year-old and 14-year-old.\n\nA bill to set the minimum age for the death penalty at 18 years was examined by the parliament in December 2003, but it was not ratified by the Guardian Council of the Constitution, the unelected body that has veto power over parliamentary bills. In a September 2008 interview President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was asked about the execution of minors and replied that \"the legal age in Iran is different from yours. It’s not eighteen ... it’s different in different countries.\"\n\nOn 10 February 2012, Iran's parliament changed the controversial law of executing juveniles. In the new law, the age of 18 (solar year) would be for both genders considered and juvenile offenders will be sentenced on a separate law than of adults.”\n\nA 2005 Human Rights Watch document, criticizes \"Parallel Institutions\" (\"nahad-e movazi\") in the Islamic Republic, \"the quasi-official organs of repression that have become increasingly open in crushing student protests, detaining activists, writers, and journalists in secret prisons, and threatening pro-democracy speakers and audiences at public events.\" Under the control of the Office of the Supreme Leader, these groups set up arbitrary checkpoints around Tehran, uniformed police often refraining from directly confronting these plainclothes agents. \"Illegal prisons, which are outside of the oversight of the National Prisons Office, are sites where political prisoners are abused, intimidated, and tortured with impunity.\"\n\nAccording to dissident Akbar Ganji, what might appear to be \"extra-legal\" killings in Iran are actually not outside the penal code of the Islamic Republic since the code \"authorises a citizen to assassinate another if he is judged to be ‘impious’,\" Some widely condemned punishments issued by the Islamic Republic the torture of prisoners and the execution of thousands of political prisoners in 1988 have been reported to follow at least some form of Islamic law and legal procedures, though they have also not been publicly acknowledged by the government.\n\nExtra-legal acts may work in tandem with official actions, such as in the case of the newsweekly \"Tamadone Hormozgan\" in Bandar Abbas, where authorities arrested seven journalists in 2007 for “insulting Ayatollah Khomeini,” while government organizations and Quranic schools organized vigilantes to \"ransacked and set fire\" to the paper's offices.\n\nArticle 38 of the constitution of the Islamic Republic forbids \"all forms of torture for the purpose of extracting confession or acquiring information\" and the \"compulsion of individuals to testify, confess, or take an oath.\" It also states that \"any testimony, confession, or oath obtained under duress is devoid of value and credence.\"\n\nNonetheless human rights groups and observers have complained that torture is frequently used on political prisoners in Iran. In a study of torture in Iran published in 1999, Iranian-born political historian Ervand Abrahamian included Iran along with \"Stalinist Russia, Maoist China, and early modern Europe\" of the Inquisition and witch hunts, as societies that \"can be considered to be in a league of their own\" in the systematic use of torture.\n\nTorture techniques used in the Islamic Republic include:\n\nwhipping, sometimes of the back but most often of the feet with the body tied on an iron bed; the qapani; deprivation of sleep; suspension from ceiling and high walls; twisting of forearms until they broke; crushing of hands and fingers between metal presses; insertion of sharp instruments under the fingernails; cigarette burns; submersion under water; standing in one place for hours on end; mock executions; and physical threats against family members. Of these, the most prevalent was the whipping of soles, obviously because it was explicitly sanctioned by the sharia.\n\nTwo \"innovations\" in torture not borrowed from the Shah's regime were:\n\nthe ‘coffin’, and compulsory watching of and even participation in executions. Some were placed in small cubicles, [50cm x 80cm x 140cm (20 inches x 31.5 inches x 55 inches)] blindfolded and in absolute silence, for 17-hour stretches with two 15-minute breaks for eating and going to the toilet. These stints could last months until the prisoner agreed to the interview. Few avoided the interview and also remained sane. Others were forced to join firing squads and remove dead bodies. When they returned to their cells with blood dripping from their hands, Their roommates surmised what had transpired. ...\n\nAccording to Abrahamian, torture became commonly used in the Islamic Republic because of its effectiveness in inducing political prisoners to make public confessions. Recorded and edited on videotape, the standard statements by prisoners included not only confessions to subversion and treason, but praise of the Islamic Revolution and denunciation or recantation of their former beliefs, former organization, former co-members, i.e. their life. These recantations served as powerful propaganda for both the Iranian public at large who by the 1980s almost all had access to television and could watch prime time programs devoted to the taped confessions and the recanters' former colleagues, for whom the denunciations were demoralizing and confusing. From the moment they arrived in prison, through their interrogation prisoners were asked if they were willing to give an \"interview.\" (\"mosahebah\") \"Some remained incarcerated even after serving their sentences simply because they declined the honor of being interviewed.\"\n\nScholars disagree over whether at least some forms of torture have been made legal according to the \"Qanon-e Ta'zir\" (Discretionary Punishment Law) of the Islamic Republic. Abrahamian argues statutes forbidding ‘lying to the authorities’ and ability of clerics to be both interrogators and judges, applying an \"indefinite series of 74 lashings until they obtain `honest answers`\" without the delay of a trial, make this a legal form of torture. Another scholar, Christoph Werner, claims he could find no Ta'zir law mentioning lying to authorities but did find one specifically banning torture in order to obtain confessions.\n\nAbrahamian also argues that a strong incentive to produce a confession by a defendant (and thus to pressure the defendant to confess) is the Islamic Republic's allowing of a defendant’s confession plus judges \"reasoning\" to constitute sufficient proof of guilt. He also states this is an innovation from the traditional sharia standard for (some) capital crimes of `two honest and righteous male witnesses`.\n\nSeveral bills passed the Iranian Parliament that would have had Iran joining the international convention on banning torture in 2003 when reformists controlled Parliament, but were rejected by the Guardian Council.\n\nChronicle of Higher Education International, reports that the widespread practice of raping women imprisoned for engaging in political protest has been effective in keeping female college students \"less outspoken and less likely to take part\" in political demonstrations. The journal quotes an Iranian college student as saying, \"most of the girls arrested are raped in jail. Families can't cope with that.\"\n\nIn 2009, Human Rights charity Freedom from Torture produced a report outlining cases of torture in Iran, including incommunicado detention, blindfolding, and forcing prisoners to sign confessions.\n\nIn the 1990s there were a number of unsolved murders and disappearances of intellectuals and political activists who had been critical of the Islamic Republic system in some way. In 1998 these complaints came to a head with the killing of three dissident writers (Mohammad Jafar Pouyandeh, Mohammad Mokhtari, Majid Sharif), a political leader (Dariush Forouhar) and his wife in the span of two months, in what became known as the Chain murders or 1998 Serial Murders of Iran. of Iranians who had been critical of the Islamic Republic system in some way. Altogether more than 80 writers, translators, poets, political activists, and ordinary citizens are thought to have been killed over the course of several years. The deputy security official of the Ministry of Information, Saeed Emami was arrested for the killings and later committed suicide, many believe higher level officials were responsible for the killings. According to Iranterror.com, \"it was widely assumed that [Emami] was murdered in order to prevent the leak of sensitive information about Ministry of Intelligence and Security operations, which would have compromised the entire leadership of the Islamic Republic.\"\n\nThe attempted murder and serious crippling of Saeed Hajjarian, a Ministry of Intelligence operative-turned-journalist and reformer, is believed to be in retaliation for his help in uncovering the chain murders of Iran and his help to the Iranian reform movement in general. Hajjarian was shot in the head by Saeed Asgar, a member of the Basij in March 2000.\n\nAt the international level, a German court ordered the arrest of a standing minister of the Islamic Republic Minister of Intelligence Ali Fallahian in 1997 for directing the 1992 murder of three Iranian-Kurdish dissidents and their translator at a Berlin restaurant, known as the Mykonos restaurant assassinations.\n\nTwo minority religious figures killed during this era were Protestant Christians Reverend Mehdi Dibaj, and Bishop Haik Hovsepian Mehr. On 16 January 1994, Rev. Mehdi, a convert to Christianity was released from prison after more than ten years of confinement, \"apparently as a result of the international pressure.\" About six months later he disappeared after leaving a Christian conference in Karaj and his body was found 5 July 1994 in a forest West of Tehran. Six months earlier the man responsible for leading a campaign to free him, Bishop Haik Hovsepian Mehr, had met a similar end, disappearing on 19 January 1994. His body was found in the street in Shahr-e Rey, a Tehran suburb.\n\nIran retains the death penalty for a large number of offenses, among them cursing the Prophet, certain drug offenses, murder, and certain hadd crimes, including adultery, incest, rape, fornication, drinking alcohol, “sodomy”, same-sex sexual conduct between men without penetration, lesbianism, “being at enmity with God” (mohareb), and “corruption on earth” (\"Mofsed-e-filarz\"). Drug offenses accounted for 58% of confirmed executions in Iran in 2016, but only 40% in 2017, a decrease that may reflect legislative reforms.\n\nDespite being a signatory to the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), which states that \"[the] sentence of death shall not be imposed for crimes committed by persons below eighteen years of age,\" Iran continues to execute minors for various offenses: At least four individuals were executed in Iran in 2017 for offenses committed before the age of eighteen.\n\nJudicial executions in Iran are more common than in any other Middle Eastern state, surpassing Iran's nearest rival—Saudi Arabia—by nearly an order of magnitude according to Michael Rubin in 2017, although Iran's population is over twice as large as Saudi Arabia's. In 2017, Iran accounted for 60% of all executions in the Middle East/North Africa while Saudi Arabia accounted for 17% and Iraq accounted for 15%.\n\nthe United Nations Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran and the UN Secretary General to the General Assembly highlighting the 1988 executions of Iranian political prisoners of political prisoners in the Islamic Republic of Iran. In her report, Special Rapporteur Asma Jahangir stated that “families of the victims have the right to a remedy, which includes the right to an effective investigation of the facts and public disclosure of the truth; and the right to reparation. The Special Rapporteur therefore calls on the Government to ensure that a thorough and independent investigation into these events is carried out.” International civil society and NGOs urged the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to establish a fact—finding mission to investigate the months-long 1988 massacre during which Iran’s government executed an estimated 30,000 political prisoners, mostly activists of the People’s Mojahedin Organization of Iran (PMOI / MEK).\n\nThe Islamic government has not hesitated to crush peaceful political demonstrations. The Iran student riots, July 1999 were sparked by an attack by an estimated 400 paramilitary Hezbollah vigilantes on a student dormitory in retaliation for a small, peaceful student demonstration against the closure of the reformist newspaper, \"Salam\" earlier that day. \"At least 20 people were hospitalized and hundreds were arrested,\" in the attack.\n\nOn 8 March 2004, the \"parallel institution\" of the Basij issued a violent crackdown on the activists celebrating International Women's Day in Tehran.\n\nHomosexual acts and adultery are criminal and punishable by life imprisonment or death after multiple offenses, and the same sentences apply to convictions for treason and apostasy. Those accused by the state of homosexual acts are routinely flogged and threatened with execution.\nIran is one of seven countries in the world that apply the death penalty for homosexual acts; all of them justify this punishment with Islamic law. The Judiciary does not recognize the concept of sexual orientation, and thus from a legal standpoint there are no homosexuals or bisexuals, only persons committing homosexual acts.\n\nFor some years after the Iranian Revolution, transgender people were classified by the Judiciary as being homosexual and were thus subject to the same laws. However, in the mid-1980s, the Judiciary began changing this policy and classifying transgender individuals as a distinct group, separate from homosexuals, granting them legal rights. Gender dysphoria is officially recognized in Iran today, and the Judiciary permits sexual reassignment surgery for those who can afford it. In the early 1960s, Ayatollah Khomeini had issued a ruling permitting gender reassignment, which has since been reconfirmed by Ayatollah Khamenei.\nCurrently, Iran has between 15,000 and 20,000 transsexuals, according to official statistics, although unofficial estimates put the figure at up to 150,000. Iran carries out more gender change operations than any country in the world besides Thailand. Sex changes have been legal since the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, spiritual leader of the 1979 Islamic revolution, passed a fatwa authorising them nearly 25 years ago. Whereas homosexuality is considered a sin, transsexuality is categorized as an illness subject to cure. While the government seeks to keep its approval quiet, state support has increased since Ahmadinejad took office in 2005. His government has begun providing grants of £2,250 for operations and further funding for hormone therapy. It is also proposing loans of up to £2,750 to allow those undergoing surgery to start their own businesses.\n\nUnequal value for women's testimony compared to that of a man, and traditional attitudes towards women's behavior and clothing as a way of explaining rape have made conviction for rape of women difficult if not impossible in Iran. One widely criticized case was that of Atefah Sahaaleh, who was executed by the state for 'inappropriate sexual relations', despite evidence she was most probably a rape victim.\n\nDifferences in blood money for men and women include victims and offenders. In 2003, the parents of Leila Fathi, an 11-year-old village girl from Sarghez who was raped and murdered, were asked to come up with the equivalent of thousands of US dollars to pay the blood money (diyya) for the execution of their daughter's killers because a woman's life is worth half that of a man's life.\n\nAmnesty International and others report that 202 Bahá’ís have been killed since the Islamic Revolution, with many more imprisoned, expelled from schools and workplaces, denied various benefits or denied registration for their marriages. Iranian Bahá'ís have also regularly had their homes ransacked or been banned from attending university or holding government jobs, and several hundred have received prison sentences for their religious beliefs, most recently for participating in study circles. Bahá'í cemeteries have been desecrated and property seized and occasionally demolished, including the House of Mírzá Buzurg, Bahá'u'lláh's father. The House of the Báb in Shiraz has been destroyed twice, and is one of three sites to which Bahá'ís perform pilgrimage.\n\nThe Islamic Republic has often stated that arrested Baha'is are being detained for \"security issues\" and are members of \"an organized establishment linked to foreigners, the Zionists in particular.\" Bani Dugal, the principal representative of the Baha'i International Community to the United Nations, replies that \"the best proof\" that Bahais are being persecuted for their faith, not for anti-Iranian activity \"is the fact that, time and again, Baha'is have been offered their freedom if they recant their Baha'i beliefs and convert to Islam ...\"\n\nJews have lived in Iran for nearly 3,000 years and Iran is host to the largest Jewish community in the Middle East outside of Israel. An estimated 25,000 Jews remain in the country, although approximately 75% of Iran's Jewish population has emigrated during and since the Islamic revolution of 1979 and Iran-Iraq war In the early days after the Islamic revolution in 1979, several Jews were executed on charges of Zionism and relations with Israel. Jews in Iran have constitutional rights equal to other Iranians, although they may not hold government jobs or become army officers. They have freedom to follow their religion, but are not granted the freedom to proselytize. Despite their small numbers, Jews are allotted one representative in parliament.\n\nIran's official government-controlled media published the Protocols of the Elders of Zion in 1994 and 1999. Jewish children still attend Jewish schools where Hebrew and religious studies are taught, but Jewish principals have been replaced by Muslim ones, the curricula are government-supervised, and the Jewish Sabbath is no longer recognized. According to Jewish journalist Roger Cohen:\n\nPerhaps I have a bias toward facts over words, but I say the reality of Iranian civility toward Jews tells us more about Iran its sophistication and culture than all the inflammatory rhetoric. That may be because I'm a Jew and have seldom been treated with such consistent warmth as in Iran.\n\nCohen's depiction of Jewish life in Iran sparked criticism from columnists and activists such as Jeffrey Goldberg of \"The Atlantic Monthly\" and Rafael Medoff, director of the David S. Wyman Institute for Holocaust Studies. In his \"Jerusalem Post\" op-ed, Medoff criticized Cohen for being \"misled by the existence of synagogues\" and further argued that Iranian Jews \"are captives of the regime, and whatever they say is carefully calibrated not to get themselves into trouble.\" The American Jewish Committee also criticized Cohen's articles. Dr. Eran Lerman, director of the group's Middle East directory, argued that \"Cohen’s need to argue away an unpleasant reality thus gives rise to systematic denial\". Cohen responded on 2 March, defending his observations and further elaborating that \"Iran’s Islamic Republic is no Third Reich redux. Nor is it a totalitarian state.\" He also stated that \"life is more difficult for them [the Jews] than for Muslims, but to suggest they [Jews] inhabit a totalitarian hell is self-serving nonsense.\"\n\nPrivately, many Jews complain to foreign reporters of \"discrimination, much of it of a social or bureaucratic nature.\" The Islamic government appoints the officials who run Jewish schools, most of these being Muslims and requires that those schools must open on Saturdays, the Jewish Sabbath. (This has apparently been changed as of February 4, 2015.) Criticism of this policy was the downfall of the last remaining newspaper of the Iranian Jewish community which was closed in 1991 after it criticized government control of Jewish schools. Instead of expelling Jews en masse like in Libya, Iraq, Egypt, and Yemen, the Iranians have adopted a policy of keeping Jews in Iran.\n\nMuslim clerical opponents of the Islamic Republic's political system have not been spared imprisonment. According to an analyst quoted by Iran Press Service, \"hundreds of clerics have been arrested, some defrocked, other left the ranks of the religion on their own, but most of them, including some popular political or intellectual figures such as Hojjatoleslam Abdollah Noori, a former Interior Minister or Hojjatoleslam Yousefi Eshkevari, an intellectual, or Hojjatoleslam Mohsen Kadivar\", are \"middle rank clerics.\"\n\nIran's \"Darvish\" are a persecuted minority. As late as the early 1900s, wandering darvish were a common sight in Iran. They are now much fewer in number and suffer from official opposition to the Sufi religion.\n\nAccording to the official Iranian census of 2006, there are 205,317 irreligious people in Iran, including atheists, agnostics, and sceptics. According to the Iranian constitution, an irreligious person can't become president of Iran.\n\nIran is a signatory to the convention to the elimination of racism. UNHCR found several positive aspects in the conduct of the Islamic republic with regards to ethnic minorities, positively citing its agreement to absorb Afghan refugees and participation from mixed ethnicities. However, the committee while acknowledging that teaching of minority languages and literature in schools is permitted, requested that Iran include more information in its next periodic report concerning the measures it has adopted to enable persons belonging to minorities to have adequate opportunities to learn their mother tongue and to have it used as a medium of instruction.\n\nUnder the administration of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, beginning in 2005, Iran's human rights record \"has deteriorated markedly\" according to the group Human Rights Watch. The number of offenders executed increased from 86 in 2005 to 317 in 2007. Months-long arbitrary detentions of \"peaceful activists, journalists, students, and human rights defenders\" and often charged with “acting against national security,” has intensified under President Ahmadineja In December 2008, the United Nations General Assembly voted to expressed \"deep concern\" for Iran's human rights record particularly \"cases of torture; the high incidence of executions and juvenile executions ... ; the persecution of women seeking their human rights; discrimination against minorities and attacks on minority groups like the Baha'is in state media ...\" Following the protests over the June 2009 presidential elections, dozens were killed, hundreds arrested including dozens of opposition leaders several journalists arrested or beaten, foreign media barred from leaving their offices to report on demonstrations, and Web sites and bloggers threatened. Basij or Revolutionary Guard were reportedly responsible for at least some of the slain protesters.\n\nIn Freedom House's 2013 press freedom survey, Iran was ranked \"Not Free\", and among \"The world’s eight worst-rated countries\" (coming in 5th out of 196). According to the Reporters Without Borders Press Freedom Index for 2013, Iran ranked 174th out of 179 nations.\nAccording to the International Press Institute and Reporters Without Borders, the government of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the Supreme National Security Council had imprisoned 50 journalists in 2007 and had all but eliminated press freedom. RWB has dubbed Iran the \"Middle East's biggest prison for journalists.\"\n85 newspapers, including 41 dailies, were shut down from 2000 to the end of 2002 following the passing of the \"April 2000 press law.\" In 2003, that number was nearly 100. There are currently 45 journalists in prison a number surpassed only by Turkey with 49. The \"red lines\" of press censorship in Iran are said to be questioning rule by clerics (\"velayat-e faqih\") and direct attacks on the Supreme Leader. Red lines have also drawn against writing that \"insults Islam, is sexually explicit, \"politically subversive,\" or is allegedly \"confusing public opinion.\"\n\nJournalists are frequently warned or summoned if they are perceived as critical of the government, and topics such as U.S. relations and the country's nuclear program are forbidden subjects for reporting.\n\nIn February 2008, the journalist Yaghoob Mirnehad was sentenced to death on charges of \"membership in the terrorist Jundallah group as well as crimes against national security.\" Mirnehad was executed on 5 July 2008.\n\nIn November 2007, freelance journalist Adnan Hassanpour received a death sentence for \"undermining national security,\" \"spying,\" \"separatist propaganda\" and being a \"mohareb\" (fighter against God). He refused to sign a confessions, and it is theorized that he was arrested for his work with US-funded radio stations Radio Farda and Voice of America. Hassanpour's sentence was overturned on 4 September 2008, by the Tehran Supreme Court. Hassanpour still faces espionage charges.\n\nIn June 2008, the Iranian Ministry of Labor stated that the 4,000 member journalists' union, founded in 1997, was \"fit for dissolution.\"\n\nHuman rights blogger and U.S. National Press Club honoree Kouhyar Goudarzi has twice been arrested for his reporting, most recently on 31 July 2011. He is currently in detention, and his whereabouts are unknown. Following his second arrest, Amnesty International named him a prisoner of conscience.\n\nIn 2003, Iranian expatriate director Babak Payami's film \"Silence Between Two Thoughts\" was seized by Iranian authorities, and Payami smuggled a digital copy out of Iran which was subsequently screened\nin several film festivals.\n\nMehdi Rajabian, is an Iranian composer, musician and the founder of the website Barg Music . He was imprisoned for pursuing illegal musical activities in 2013 and 2015. He was arrested by Iranian security forces on 5 October 2013 outside his office in Sari, and was transferred to Ward 2-A of Evin Prison where he wa held in solitary confinement for more than two months and were threatened with televised confessions. In 2013, after his first arrestment, all the materials of his album, Barg Music, and his office were all seized. He was released on bail (around $66,000) in mid-December, pending trial. Two years later, his case was heard at Branch 28 of Tehran Revolutionary Court which was presided over by Judge Moghisseh (Summer 2015). He was sentenced to six years in prison and fines for pursuing illegal music activities, launching propaganda against the establishment, cooperating with banned musicians, and hurling insults at sanctities. On appeal, his sentence was changed to three years imprisonment and three years of suspended jail and Fines. He went on hunger strike to protest against unjust trial, and lack of medical facilities. During the first hunger strike period, which lasted 14 days, he could not continue his hunger strike because of the interference of the representative of the prosecutor who was sent as an intermediary. After some time, he sent an open letter to the judicial authorities of Iran, and international artists, and again (with his brother) went on strike. After 36 days of hunger strike, he convinced Iranian judicial authorities to allow him go on a temporary treatment as on bail. As a punishment, he was imprisoned in Evin Section 8, along with Somalian pirates, and Tanzanian and Japanese drug dealers. During his furlough, he published the hand written piece from the pirate's leader, who was his cell mate during his time in prison. He received the Global Investigative Journalism Network’s (GIJN) Choice Artist Award in 2017. In Iran he's on no-fly list, and he's banned from education and art related activities.\n\nOn 1 March 2010, Jafar Panahi was arrested. He was taken from his home along with his wife Tahereh Saidi, daughter Solmaz Panahi, and 15 of his friends by plain-clothes officers to Evin Prison. Most were released 48 hours later, Mohammad Rasoulof and Mehdi Pourmoussa on 17 March 2010, but Panahi remained in section 209 inside Evin Prison. Panahi's arrest was confirmed by the government, but the charges were not specified.On April 14, 2010, Iran's Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance said that Panahi was arrested because he \"tried to make a documentary about the unrest that followed the disputed 2009 re-election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.\"On 18 May, Panahi sent a message to Abbas Baktiari, director of the Pouya Cultural Center, an Iranian-French cultural organization in Paris, stating that he was being mistreated in prison and his family threatened and as a result had begun a hunger strike. On 25 May, he was released on $200,000 bail while awaiting trial.On 20 December 2010, Panahi, after being convicted for \"assembly and colluding with the intention to commit crimes against the country’s national security and propaganda against the Islamic Republic,\" the Islamic Revolutionary Court sentenced Panahi to six years imprisonment and a 20-year ban on making or directing any movies, writing screenplays, giving any form of interview with Iranian or foreign media as well as leaving the country except for Hajj holy pilgrimage to Mecca or medical treatment. Panahi's colleague, Mohammad Rasoulof also received six years imprisonment but was later reduced to one year on appeal.On October 15, 2011, a court in Tehran upheld Panahi's sentence and ban. Following the courts decision, Panahi was placed under house arrest. He has since been allowed to move more freely but he cannot travel outside Iran.\n\nHossein Rajabian, an Iranian independent filmmaker, After finishing his first feature film, was arrested by Iranian security forces on 5 October 2013 outside his office [in Sari] alongside two musicians, and was transferred to Ward 2-A of Evin Prison where all three of them were held in solitary confinement for more than two months and were threatened with televised confessions. He was released on bail (around $66,000) in mid-December, pending trial. Two years later, his case was heard at Branch 28 of Tehran Revolutionary Court which was presided over by Judge Moghisseh (Summer 2015). He was sentenced to six years in prison and fines for pursuing illegal cinematic activities, launching propaganda against the establishment and hurling insults at sanctities. On appeal, his sentence was changed to three years imprisonment and three years of suspended jail and Fines.Hossein Rajabian was sent to the ward 7 of Evin Prison in Tehran. After spending one third of his total period of imprisonment (that is 11 months), he went on hunger strike to protest against unjust trial, lack of medical facilities, and transfer of his brother to another ward called section 8 of the same prison. During the first hunger strike period, which lasted 14 days, he was transferred to hospital because of pulmonary infection and he could not continue his hunger strike because of the interference of the representative of the prosecutor who was sent as an intermediary. After some time, he sent an open letter to the judicial authorities of Iran and went again on strike which brought him the supports of international artists. After 36 days of hunger strike, he could convince the judicial authorities of Iran to review his case and grant him medical leave for the treatment of his left kidney suffered from infections and blood arising out of hunger strike. he, after a contentious struggle with the judicial officer of the prison was sent to the ward 8 for punishment.\n\nBlogger and political activist Samiye Tohidlou was sentenced to 50 lashes for her activities during protests at the 2009 presidential campaign. Activist Peyman Aref was sentenced to 74 lashes for writing an \"insulting\" open letter to President Ahmadinejad, in which he criticized the president's crackdown on politically active students. An unnamed Iranian journalist based in Tehran commented: \"Lashing Aref for insulting Ahmadinejad is shocking and unprecedented.\"\n\nOn 8 May 2007, Haleh Esfandiari an Iranian-American scholar in Iran visiting her 93-year-old mother, was detained in Evin Prison and kept in solitary confinement for more than 110 days. She was one of several visiting Iranian-Americans prohibited from leaving Iran in 2007. In December 2008, the presidents of the American National Academy of Sciences issued a warning to \"American scientists and academics\" against traveling to Iran without \"clear assurances\" that their personal safety \"will be guaranteed and that they will be treated with dignity and respect\", after Glenn Schweitzer, who had coordinated the academies’ programs in Iran for the past decade, was detained and interrogated.\n\nThe Internet has grown faster in Iran than any other Middle Eastern country (aside from Israel) since 2000 but the government has censored dozens of websites it considers \"non-Islamic\" and harassed and imprisoned online journalists. In 2006 and again in 2010, the activist group Reporters Without Borders labeled Iran one of the 12 or 13 countries it designated \"Enemies of the Internet\" for stepped up efforts to censor the Internet and jail dissidents.\nIt also ranked worst in \"Freedom on the Net 2013 Global Scores\".\nReporters Without the Borders sent a letter to UN high Commissioner for human rights Navi Pillay to share its deep concern and ask for her intervention in the case of two netizens/free speech defenders, Vahid Asghari and Hossein Derakhshan.\nReporters Without Borders also believes that it is the Iranian \"government’s desire to rid the Iranian Internet of all independent information concerning the political opposition, the women’s movement and human rights”. Where the government cannot legally stop sites it uses advanced blocking software to prevent access to them. Many major sites have been blocked entirely such as YouTube, IMDB.com, Voice of America, BBC.\n\nAccording to Amnesty annual report 2015/2016, Iranian authorities continued its policy in restricting freedoms of expression, association and assembly. The report claimed that authorities blocked many of social media websites, including Twitter and Facebook. In June 2015, the authorities have arrested five people for using social media in \"anti-revolutionary\" activities. In other case, five people were arrested for \"acts against decency in internet\". On July 8, 2018, Iran has arrested a number of users for posting videos on Instagram, including a young activist named Maedeh Hojabri. As a result, Iranian women posted videos of themselves dancing to protest her arrest.\n\nIn the past several years many people have died in custody in the Islamic Republic, raising fears that \"prisoners in the country are being denied medical treatment, possibly as an extra punishment.\" Two prisoners who died, allegedly after having \"committed suicide\" while in jail in northwestern Iran but whose families reported no signs of behavior consistent with suicidal tendencies are:\n\n\nPolitical prisoners who recently died in prison under \"suspicious circumstances\" include:\n\n\nAround 2005 the situation of Bahá'ís is reported to have worsened; the United Nations Commission on Human Rights revealed an October 2005 confidential letter from Command Headquarters of the Armed Forces of Iran to identify Bahá'ís and to monitor their activities and in November 2005 the state-run and influential Kayhan newspaper, whose managing editor is appointed by Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, ran nearly three dozen articles defaming the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nDue to these actions, the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights stated on 20 March 2006 that she \"also expresses concern that the information gained as a result of such monitoring will be used as a basis for the increased persecution of, and discrimination against, members of the Bahá'í faith, in violation of international standards. … The Special Rapporteur is concerned that this latest development indicates that the situation with regard to religious minorities in Iran is, in fact, deteriorating.\"\n\nIn March and in May 2008, \"senior members\" forming the leadership of the Bahá'í community in Iran were arrested by officers from the Ministry of Intelligence and taken to Evin prison.\nThey have not been charged, and they seem to be prisoners of conscience.\nThe Iran Human Rights Documentation Center has stated that they are concerned for the safety of the Bahá'ís, and that the recent events are similar to the disappearance of 25 Bahá'í leaders in the early 1980s.\n\nOne opponent of theocracy, Ayatollah Hossein Kazemeyni Boroujerdi and many of his followers were arrested in Tehran on 8 October 2006. According to mardaninews website, judicial authorities have reportedly released no information concerning Boroujerdi's prosecution and “associates” of Ayatollah Boroujerdi have told the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran “that his heart and kidney conditions are grave but he has had no access to specialist care.”\nHe only receives painkillers for his diseases inside prison. In addition to his physical health, his psychological well-being has also deteriorated due to ill-treatment and lengthy solitary confinement episodes. He has lost 30 kilograms in prison.\n\nBoroujerdi is not the only clergy facing violations in Iran. Ayatullah Shirazi and his followers are continuously arrested, tortured and even killed due to their disapproval of the Iran's policies. Although this family does not openly critique the government, they are the most powerful and internationally known for their freedom of religion for all minorities. \nSeyed Hussain Shirazi is the last clergy arrested on March 6th, 2018 after he advocated for the rights of minorities in his speech.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International's 2007 report, \"Ethnic and religious minorities\" in the Islamic Republic \"remained subject to discriminatory laws and practices which continued to be a source of social and political unrest\".\n\nIn 2003, Iran elected not to become a member of the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) since the convention contradicted the Islamic Sharia law in Clause A of its single article.\n\nIn a report released 20 October 2008, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called \"discriminatory provisions\" against women in criminal and civil laws in Iran \"in urgent need of reform,\" and said gender-based violence was \"widespread.\"\n\nIn Spring 2007, Iranian police launched a crackdown against women accused of not covering up enough, arresting hundreds of women, some for wearing too tight an overcoat or letting too much hair peek out from under their veil. The campaign in the streets of major cities is the toughest such crackdown since the Islamic revolution. More than one million Iranians (mostly women) were arrested in a 12-month period (May 2007 May 2008) for violating the state dress code, according to a May 2008 NBC Today Show report by Matt Lauer.\n\n\"Guidance Patrols\" (\"gasht-e ershâd\") often referred to as \"religious police\" in Western media enforce Islamic moral values and dress codes. Reformist politicians have criticized the unpopular patrols but the patrols ‘interminable’ according to Iranian judicial authorities who have pointed out that in the Islamic Republic the president does not have control over the enforcement of dress codes.\n\nIn May 2016, the Iranian government announced the arrest of eight women involved in online modeling without a mandatory head scarf. Mehdi Abutorabi, a blogger who managed a publishing tool called Persian Blog, was also detained.\n\nIn August 2012, following years in which Iranian women students have outperformed Iranian male students, 36 universities announced that 77 BA and BSc courses would be \"single gender\" and not co-ed. Under this policy, undergraduate women are excluded from a wide variety of studies in leading institutions, including English literature, English translation, hotel management, archaeology, nuclear physics, computer science, electrical engineering, industrial engineering, and business management. Shirin Ebadi, an Iranian Nobel laureate and human rights lawyer exiled in the United Kingdom, wrote to United Nations Secretary General Ban ki-Moon and High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay over the move, saying that Iran's true agenda was to lower the proportion of female students from 65% to below 50%, which would weaken Iran's feminist movement in its campaign against discriminatory Islamic laws. Some Iranian parliamentarians have also criticized the new policy.\n\nIran \"leads the world in executing juvenile offenders persons under 18 at the time of the crime\" according to Human Rights Watch. International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran states that of the 32 executions of juvenile offenders that have taken place in the world since January 2005, 26 occurred in Iran. In 2007, Iran executed eight juvenile offenders.\nIn July of that year, Amnesty International issued a comprehensive 46-page report titled \"Iran: The last executioner of children\" noting Iran had executed more children between 1990 and 2005 than any other state.\n\nIran is a party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC). Article 6.5 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) declares: “Sentence of death shall not be imposed for crimes committed by persons below eighteen years of age” and the article 37(a) of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) provides that: “Neither capital punishment nor life imprisonment without possibility of release shall be imposed for offenses committed by persons below eighteen years of age”.\n\nIn January 2005, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, which monitors states' compliance with the CRC, urged Iran to immediately stay all executions of child offenders and to abolish the use of the death penalty in such cases. In the summer of 2006, the Iranian Parliament reportedly passed a bill establishing special courts for children and adolescents. However, it has not yet been approved by the Council of Guardians, which supervises Iran's legislation to ensure conformity with Islamic principles. During the past four years, the Iranian authorities have reportedly been considering legislation to ban the death penalty for child offenders. Recent comments by a judiciary spokesperson indicates that the proposed law would only prohibit the death penalty for certain crimes, and not all crimes committed by children.\n\nIn spite of these efforts, the number of child offenders executed in Iran has risen during the past two years. As of July 2008, Stop Child Executions Campaign has recorded over 130 minors facing executions in Iran.\n\nIn late 2007, Iranian authorities hanged Makwan Mouludzadeh in Kermanshah prison for crimes he is alleged to have committed when he was 13 years of age. According to Human Rights Watch, this was despite the fact that his accusers had recanted their statements and Mouladzadeh had repudiated his confession as being coerced by the police, and despite the fact that the head of Iran’s judiciary, Ayatollah Shahrudi, had ordered a unit of the Judiciary to investigate the case and refer it back to the Penal Court of Kermanshah, before any final decision on an execution.\n\nA 2004 case, that gained international attention was the hanging of 16-year-old schoolgirl Atefah Sahaaleh.\n\n16 February 2018, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Mr. Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein asked Iran to halt all executions of people sentenced to death for crimes committed when they were under eighteen.\n\nThe following individuals represent a partial list of individuals who are currently, or have in the past, significantly attempted to improve the human rights situation in Iran.\n\n\nIran has an Islamic Human Rights Commission, but it is \"housed in a government building and headed by the chief of the judiciary,\" and is not considered to be particularly concerned with human rights abuses, according to Nobel peace prize laureate and founder of Defenders of Human Rights Center Shirin Ebadi.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37375537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37375537", "title": "Innovation leadership", "text": "Innovation leadership\n\nInnovation leadership is a philosophy and technique that combines different leadership styles to influence employees to produce creative ideas, products, and services. The key role in the practice of innovation leadership is the innovation leader. Dr. David Gliddon (2006) developed the competency model of innovation leaders and established the concept of innovation leadership at Penn State University.\n\nAs an approach to organization development, innovation leadership can support achievement of the mission or the vision of an organization or group. With new technologies and processes, it is necessary for organizations to think innovatively to ensure continued success and stay competitive. to adapt to new changes, “The need for innovation in organizations has resulted in a new focus on the role of leaders in shaping the nature and success of creative efforts.” Without innovation leadership, organizations are likely to struggle. This new call for innovation represents the shift from the 20th century, traditional view of organizational practices, which discouraged employee innovative behaviors, to the 21st-century view of valuing innovative thinking as a “potentially powerful influence on organizational performance.”\n\nTo have a clear understanding of what innovation leadership involves, one must first understand the concept of innovation. Although there is some controversy over how it can be defined, through general consensus in the literature, it can be described as novel ideas of viable products that are put into operation. It includes three different stages, which are all dynamic and iterative (constant):\n\n\nThe two types of innovation include exploratory innovation, which involves generating brand new ideas, and value-added innovation, which involves modifying and improving ideas that already exist. Ideas generated must be useful to be considered innovative. Innovation should also not be confused with creativity, which is merely the generation of a novel idea that may not necessarily be put into operation—though these words are sometimes used interchangeably in research literature when speaking about innovation leadership. Innovation leadership is a complex concept, as there is no single explanation or formula for a leader to follow to increase innovation. As a result, innovation leadership encompasses a variety of different activities, actions, and behaviors that interact to produce an innovative outcome.\n\nExploratory and value-added innovation require different leadership styles and behaviors to succeed. Value-added innovation (PwC, 2010) involves refining and revising an existing product or service and typically requires minimal risk taking (compared to exploratory innovation, which often involves taking a large risk); in this case, it is most appropriate for a leader for innovation to adopt a transactional form of leadership. This is because a transactional leadership style does not use open leadership behaviors such as encouraging employees to experiment and take risks, but rather uses closed leadership behaviors that do not condone or reward risk-taking. Companies whose innovation leaders use transactional leadership for value-added innovation purposes include Toyota Motor Co., General Motors Corp., and Ford Motor Co.; examples of these companies’ value-added innovations such as making improvements on existing cars by making them faster, more comfortable, and getting better gas mileage. \nOccasionally a value-added innovation may require a completely new way of thinking and possibly taking new risks. An example of this scenario can be illustrated through Aspirin; this was an existing product, traditionally used as an analgesic to alleviate aches and pains, but has been introduced into a new and different market by extending its uses to help prevent heart attack and reduce blot clot formation. In this example, the usage of an existing product was re-worked and introduced into a new market. While an existing product is being changed and/or improved upon, characterizing it as a value-added innovation, outside-the-box thinking, research, and risk-taking are now required since it is being introduced into a new market. In this case, a transformational leadership style is a more appropriate style to use.\nThe innovation leader must gauge if (and how much) risk and radical thinking are involved in the value-added innovation to determine which leadership style to use in a situation. The leader must be flexible—able to switch leadership behaviors when necessary.\n\nExploratory innovation refers to the generation of novel ideas, strategies, and solutions through the use of strictly open behaviors exhibited most often by transformational leaders. The foundation of exploratory innovation is characterized by search, discovery, experimentation, and risk taking. It is the organization's focus on generating new ideas, products and strategies; in contrast to exploitative innovation, which focuses on building and extending already existing ideas. Some studies have shown that explorative and exploitative innovation require different structures, strategies, processes, capabilities, and cultures. See Innovative Organizational Climate/Culture. Exploratory innovation requires flexibility, opportunism, adaptability, and for leaders to provide intellectual stimulation to their subordinates. In this approach to innovation, the leadership style that is primarily used is transformational. The behaviors exhibited are believed to achieve the desired creative outcome from employees through the application of individualized consideration, charisma, and inspirational motivation.\n\nFor example, in one study of the innovation practices at AXA Insurance in Ireland, the CEO John O’Neil engaged in transformational leadership behaviors and introduced the “MadHouse” program that combined workers from different departments and levels of the organization to work together in a creative way. The result of this experiment after six months was 150 new business ideas for products and services. Explorative and Value-added innovation are often referenced together, but surprisingly little research shows an interaction between the two. However, there is an understanding that in some circumstances a ‘balance’ must be attained to achieve superior employee performance. For example, not all novel ideas are implemented, and may be resurrected later. The organization may need to switch gears and adopt exploitative strategies to revise and refine the idea to match present needs.\n\nInnovation leadership has roots in path-goal theory and leader-member exchange theory. Certain elements within an organization are also needed for innovation leadership to succeeded. Wolfe (1994), as cited by Sarros, Cooper, & Santora, (2008) has pointed out that one antecedent factor for innovation is organizational culture. Likewise, Isaksen, Laver, Ekvail & Britz (2001) concur that innovative endeavors fail without a supportive climate. This antecedent of a supportive organizational culture/climate encompasses encouragement of creativity, autonomy, resources, and pressures. Additional foundational elements for innovation leadership include creative work, a creative workforce, and certain leader attributes.\n\nThe basis of path-goal theory uses a similar view of leadership, in that it advocates different types of leadership (e.g., participative, supportive) behaviors, much like innovation leadership does. However, it is contingent on employee and environmental factor to be effective. The idea of a single leader using different leadership behaviors originated in path-goal theory, and has been associated with the framework underlying innovation leadership, which also allows the creation of a work environment conducive to innovative thinking—which is the cognitive process of generating novel and useful ideas.\n\nCreating this type of work environment through innovation leadership involves open leadership behaviors that resemble some leader behaviors proposed by Path-goal theory—for example, upward influence and supportive/considerate behaviors. In innovation leadership, these behaviors encourage the creative team to generate as many novel ideas as possible and lead to evaluation and implementation of these ideas.\n\nLeader-member exchange theory (LMX theory) is another one of the building blocks of innovation leadership. It follows the same idea as Path-goal theory and innovation leadership, that multiple leadership styles are necessary in managing multiple subordinates but takes it a step further. LMX involves adopting a unique leadership style for each employee. Past studies indicate that LMX theory has been shown to have an effect on innovation. Studies have also shown that leader-member exchange relationships can predict significant organizational and attitudinal variables including higher job satisfaction and higher job performance.\n\nBasu and Green (1997) found that innovative behavior is related to the quality of the leader-member exchange where high quality exchanges include contributions from both the leader and the follower. However, in a study by Jean Lee (2008), only the loyalty aspect of LMX (LMXL) was shown to be related to innovativeness. Leadership styles, transformational (positively related) and transactional (negatively related), were found to have an effect on innovativeness.\n\nSome studies have shown evidence of organizational culture as the mediator of the relationship between transformational leadership and organizational innovation and performance. In other words, for transformational leadership to affect organizational innovation, an organization must have a strong innovative culture in addition to a leader with a transformational leadership style.\n\nOrganizational culture refers to an organization's deep structure, normative beliefs, and shared behavioral expectations. This culture is fairly constant and can influence interorganizational relations. Climate refers to the way that individuals perceive the extent to which the organizational culture impacts them. The two essentially are interrelated. One proposed model for assessing a creative environment in organizations includes the following dimensions:\n\nEncouragement of creativity is the most frequently mentioned dimension in the literature. It operates at three major levels, each level containing multiple aspects.\n\nThe first level is Organizational Encouragement. This involves encouragement of risk-taking and idea generation from all levels of management, fair and supportive evaluation of new ideas, recognition and reward of creativity, and collaborative idea flow across an organization. Each of these are equally important aspects of organizational encouragement but the third aspect, recognition and reward of creativity, may have adverse effects if the sole purpose for engaging in an activity is to gain reward.\n\nThe second level, Supervisory Encouragement, highlights the roles of supervisors and project managers in goal clarity, open interaction between supervisors and subordinates, and supervisory support of a team's work and ideas. This level of encouragement points to the concepts of transformational leadership and LMX that emphasise the importance of the interactions of supervisors and subordinates in innovative performance.\n\nThe third level of encouragement is Work Group Encouragement. Diversity in team members’ backgrounds and openness to ideas affects creativity because individuals are exposed to a variety of novel and unusual ideas and such exposure had been demonstrated to have a positive effect on creative thinking \n\nAutonomy is believed to foster creativity since studies have revealed that individuals produce more creative work and experience increased intrinsic motivation when they have a sense of control and ownership over their work and ideas and they perceive themselves as having a choice in how their goals are accomplished, whether those goals are given to them by their supervisor or chosen by themselves.\n\nResources have been suggested to be directly related to creativity in organizations. Individuals’ perceptions of the availability of resources may lead to increased beliefs of the likelihood that the ideas they generate have a possibility of reaching the implementation stage.\n\nThe little evidence that exists on the dimension of pressure suggests somewhat paradoxical influences. Some degree of pressure could have a positive effect if the pressure originates from the challenging and intellectual nature of the task itself, increasing intrinsic motivation. However, if the pressure experienced is perceived extreme it could counteract creativity. Amabile et al. (1996) identify two forms of pressure: excessive workload pressure and challenge. They suggest that the first should have a negative influence on creativity while the second should have a positive one.\n\nAlthough there has been little research on the work of environment factors that undermine creativity, some research suggests that these impediments include internal strife, conservatism, and rigid, formal management structures within organizations. This dimension is seen as working against autonomy and tends to have an inverse effect as individuals may perceive a more controlling environment.\n\nCreative work can occur at any job but more specifically it can occur in jobs where there are complicated, ill-defined problems requiring innovative solutions. The fact that the creative problems are ill-defined makes the creative work uncertain, and it may involve risky efforts. It is also resource intensive, demanding, and time consuming work requiring high levels of motivation and often requires collaboration. This type of work must also involve both novel idea generation and novel idea implementation and requires expertise on the part of the workforce.\n\nA creative workforce is needed for innovation leadership to be successful. Creative people have expertise on the subject requiring innovation and tend to use work as a source of identity. Because of this, they are powerfully intrinsically motivated by professional achievement opportunities and recognition. Creative workers are also commonly characterized as highly valuing their autonomy; additional dispositional attributes include openness, flexibility, cognitive complexity, self-confidence, dominance, and introversion. The patterns of characteristics creative workers exhibit typically allow them to confidently explore alternative ideas under ambiguous conditions.\n\nSuccessful innovation leadership requires a leader with certain characteristics. These include expertise in the domain, creativity, ability to carry out transformational leadership behaviors, planning and sense-making, and social skills. Innovative leaders can be recruited and hired through professional networks and referrals or alternatively found through succession planning, which involves identifying innovative leaders who are already working within the organization.\n\nIn addition to these foundations, various styles play an important role in innovation leadership, each of which are used at different stages of the innovation process or for different types of innovation (value-added vs. exploratory). Frequently associated leadership styles include transformational leadership, transactional leadership, and Ambidextrous leadership. The type of leadership most strongly associated with innovation is transformational leadership.\n\nAs mentioned above, different leadership styles and behaviors may be more appropriate at different stages of the innovation process. Current research supports the notion that in the idea generation process, innovation leadership requires a leader to use a more transformational style of leadership. During this stage, a leader needs to promote a safe environment for employees/team members to voice novel ideas and original thinking as well as provide workers with the resources to do so effectively. Research has also found that leaders who engage in unconventional behaviors, associated with transformational leadership, were seen as stronger role models and, as a result, increase creative performance in their subordinates. For example, the founders of Google have been known to wear capes and jump-shoes around the office, thus inspiring more outside-the-box thinking in their employees. These open leadership behaviors convey that unorthodox and unconventional ideas and behaviors are not only accepted but also encouraged.\n\nIn addition to providing a climate for idea generation, innovation leadership also requires leaders to ensure that the process of idea generation does not overshadow the evaluation and implementation processes. During these phases of leadership, leaders must support some ideas while discarding other ideas and put the supported ideas into production. The role of the leader must shift away from a transformational style to a more transactional style of leadership, which involves being more direct and critical toward the ideas generated. A leader now needs to ensure that constructive discussions of innovative ideas are taking place among their subordinates. This serves to evaluate the usefulness of each idea, eliminate those that do not appear viable to the organization or goal, and push the ones that do appear viable into the production phase. The leader must adopt what are known as closed leadership behaviors to achieve this. Instead of stimulating idea generation, the leader must shift focus from generating new ideas toward fine-tuning existing ideas to achieve progress toward the goal, and ultimately implement the idea. This challenge of balancing differing leadership styles when appropriate is called the \"generator evaluator paradox\". It is important to consider the role of ambidextrous leadership, since a leader must be able to switch between leadership roles and styles when necessary to successfully lead for innovation. Paradoxes of innovation leadership are discussed below.\n\nDepending on the type of leadership style that is adopted by the innovation leader, the leader may have either a direct or indirect influence on your employees.\n\nDirect forms of influence in leading innovation include:\n\nIndirect influences get the same results without providing explicit guidance to employees. These types of influences include:\n\nA proposed model for innovation leadership has been a multilevel process model of innovation, which uses the direct and indirect leadership on the processes of innovation mentioned in the above section to promote the innovation process. In the model, indirect leadership influences affect the individual creativity (generation phase) and team creativity (evaluation phase) process. Direct leadership influences affect the team creativity (evaluation phase) process and the organizational innovation process (implementation phase). The individual creativity (generation phase) box in the model represents the process of the individual generating the initial idea or ideas and proposing them to their team. The team creativity (evaluation phase) box represents the process of the team taking that idea, making alterations and fine-tuning it to the point of making prototypes, formalized sketches, or simulations. The organizational innovation (implementation) box represents taking those prototypes, sketches, or simulations and testing, evaluating, and possibly mass-producing them.\n\nTwo very important key features of this model should be mentioned:\n\nInnovation leadership is complex, as can be seen from the Hunter & Cushenbery (2011) model, and often paradoxes emerge that require leaders to strike a delicate balance between two conflicting roles (e.g. encouraging innovative ideas vs. limiting innovative ideas to include only those that are most viable and useful to the organization). A balance must be struck, not only within the leader and their behaviors, but between conflicting interests of involved parties as well. These include conflicting interests between the leader and the employees/teams, between leaders and situational/contextual factors, and between the employees/teams and the organization. Critical potential paradoxes that are often faced by leaders of innovation have been provided by Hunter, Thoroughgood, Meyer, & Ligon (2011).\n\nInternal/Localized paradoxes entail conflicting roles experienced within the leader.\n\nThe Dual Expertise Paradox postulates that a leader must have or acquire domain expertise while at the same time obtaining the necessary leadership skills to manage his/her employees and resources.\n\nThe Generation Evaluation Paradox stipulates that a leader must encourage a supportive climate for the generation of new ideas and thinking outside-the-box while evaluating these ideas and realizing that not all creative ideas are useful and many may even fail (while not being too critical and negative of those ideas).\n\nTeam-level paradoxes entail conflicting interests between the leader and the employees/teams\n\nCreative Personality Cohesion Paradox is based on the research finding that creative workers generally highly value autonomy and, as a result, often prefer to work alone. This paradox illustrates the difficulty leaders have in providing their employees with the autonomy they must be creative, while fostering team cohesion (or closeness) to facilitate idea sharing. A leader must also be careful not to encourage too much cohesion, as it may discourage group members from disagreeing (even constructively disagreeing) with fellow group members in an effort not to offend them or “rock the boat.”\n\nThe Vision Autonomy Paradox highlights the dilemma a leader faces between providing structure and guidance to a team with respect to the vision of the goal, while at the same time stepping back and providing the team with enough autonomy, especially considering the fact that creative workers highly value autonomy. When leading for innovation, providing an overabundance of structure may result in a backlash from employees who feel their autonomy is being taken away from them.\n\nThe Restriction Freedom Paradox underscores that innovation leaders need to allow employees enough time to develop creative endeavors and provide the resources to do so. At the same time the leader must take care to provide enough pressure that they are still motivated to complete the task and not provide too many resources that it has a “deadening effect” on creativity.\n\nSituational Paradoxes entail conflicting interests between leaders and the situations they face.\n\nThe Intrinsic Extrinsic Paradox holds that instead of providing more readily available extrinsic motivation tools such as bonuses and salary increases, leaders must provide intrinsic motivation, which generally comes from within the employee, to their employees. This paradox is based on findings that intrinsic motivation is a key factor in facilitating creativity and extrinsic motivators may either hinder creativity or have an unclear relationship with creativity.\n\nThe Local Long-Term Paradox posits that leaders of innovation must maintain their innovative edge by keeping an eye out for and capitalizing on potential opportunities, even at the risk of placing those ideas above or even eliminating ideas that he or she had previously inspired in their teams. The leader must also be capable of developing teams that are flexible enough to be passionate about ideas that may have replaced their own idea that was facilitated, inspired, and supported by their leader. This is where the paradox is most clearly visible.\n\nThe competition collaboration paradox involves a leader developing open external relationships with other organizations to discover potential innovation opportunities, while ensuring the organization's emerging ideas are protected in a competitive environment.\n\nThe feedback rigidity paradox involves leaders seeking out and using customer and client advice and feedback towards innovative endeavors to a certain extent, while maintaining control of the vision and not letting the feedback dictate to them—as clients and customers often criticize innovations early on.\n\nThe Failure Success Paradox is the idea that innovation leaders must ensure a safe organizational culture that is willing to embrace risk and failure, while at the same time making sure that the organization is also producing successful products and services despite embracing risk and errors.\n\nAdditional paradoxes identified by Hunter et al. (2011) that do not directly involve the leader but are worth mentioning are the paradoxes that occur between teams and the organization. These include the Insularity Cohesion paradox, the Champion Evaluator paradox, and the Creativity Cost paradox.\n\nOutcomes of innovation leadership include inspiring employees to the create and implement novel ideas for products, services, and technologies. In addition, these novel ideas can also be used to solve problems within an organization. What this illustrates is that innovation spurred by innovation leadership can be translated across various industries and can be used for a multitude of purposes. Ultimately, inspiring and initiating organizational innovation through innovation leadership can serve to advance the organization it to the next level.\n\nCompanies that use innovative leadership include 3M, which lets employees work on a project of their choosing for 15% of their time.\n\nSimilarly, Google allows employees one day a week to work on their own project.\n\nZappos employees are allowed to “radically” decorate their cubicle and are encouraged to laugh and have fun at work impromptu in-office parades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49966481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49966481", "title": "International Women's Health Coalition", "text": "International Women's Health Coalition\n\nThe International Women's Health Coalition (IWHC) is a non governmental organization (NGO) founded in 1984 based in New York City. The IWHC focuses on issues relating to women and girls' human rights, health and equality. IWHC represents part of the women's movement that recognizes that many challenges to gender equality lie in challenges in health issues and in raising families. The IWHC is one of the oldest currently active global feminist groups.\n\nJoan Dunlop was the first president of IWHC and served from 1984 to 1998. Dunlop took over the National Women's Health Coalition (NWHC) created by Merle Goldberg and changed its mission to become more international in scope. The original NWHC was small, with a staff of three, and funded abortion training and other health services projects in various countries. Adrienne Germain was also involved in co-founding IWHC with Dunlop. Germain became vice president of IWHC in 1985. Germain and Dunlop created a unique approach to women's health initiatives by investing in \"local women-led organisations that provide services and influence national policies, and, simultaneously, advocating for global policy and funding.\n\nIWHC attended the 1994 United Nations International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo where they asked for the inclusion for access to contraception, safe abortion, maternity care, better access to women's health services and comprehensive sex education. In preparation for the conference, Dunlop and 15 colleagues developed a set of guidelines called \"Women's Declaration on Population Policies,\" which focused on women's rights in family planning. The \"Women's Declaration\" was eventually reviewed and finalized with the help of 100 different women's organizations around the world. The \"Women's Declaration\" was adopted by the conference in Cairo. One of the main goals of the \"Women's Declaration\" was to \"shift the focus of population programs from goals and targets\" to considering the whole of a woman's life. Dunlop with the IWHC argued that working towards gender equality in addition to sex education would help reduce birth rates. Demographic goals and targets, conversely, led to programs that included forced or unwanted sterilizations and \"inappropriate methods of family planning\" for women. Dunlop also called demographic and target methods to population control \"basically racist\" because she felt there was a subtext that \"those black and brown people should not have more children.\"\n\nAt the U.N. Women's Conference in Beijing in 1995, IWHC lobbied to include the idea that women have a right to control their sexuality \"free of coercion, discrimination and violence.\" Dunlop, said, \"It moves beyond sexuality as a means of reproduction.\" This agreement at the women's conference marked the first time women's sexuality was acknowledged as a right for women to control. It gave women a legal tool in countries where husbands were still legally able to force their wives to have sex. IWHC also sponsored women's groups from poorer nations to be able to attend the Beijing conference.\n\nIWHC held a symposium in 1997 where they discussed women's health and international policy. Often, it was found that women's health issues had been undermined by economic policies by the United States.\n\nBy the time Dunlop retired in 1998, the IWHC had a $4 million annual budget. The IWHC was also \"playing a leading role in influencing government and UN agency policies to ensure women's human rights were at the core of population policies.\" Germain became the next president of IWHC after Dunlop in 1998.\n\nFrançoise Girard succeeded Germain as president of IWHC in 2012.\n\nIWHC remains staunch on the idea that giving women better access to health care and sex education is the right and ethical way to help stabilize the world's population growth. The IWHC also publishes books relating to research and reviews of various policies relating to women's health. IWHC supports \"50 health projects in eight countries.\" IWHC works cooperatively with the United Nations (UN) Population Fund and the World Bank.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55149794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55149794", "title": "Kabiru Tanimu Turaki", "text": "Kabiru Tanimu Turaki\n\nKabiru Tanimu Turaki, SAN, FCIArb, FABs, FCIDA, HCH.Hm, MPIS, MHCA (Dan Masanin Gwandu, Zarumman Kabbi) (born 3 April 1957) is a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, a former Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernment Affairs, former supervising Minister, Ministry of Labour, having served from 2013–2015 and 2014–2015 respectively and current Chairman of PDP former Ministers’ Forum of Nigeria.\n\nA practicing lawyer and a politician, he contested for Kebbi state Governor’s seat three times. He is presently a member of People’s Democratic Party’s Board of Trustees.\n\nKabiru was born at the Nasarawa area of Kebbi, Kebbi state to the family of Alhaji Tanimu. Like other children of his age and in accordance with the great custom of the wonderful people of Gwandu Emirate, Kabiru Tanimu was sent to the Qur'anic school, a step which was to later mould his character and prepare him for the numerous challenges of life. In order to equally acquire western education, he was further enrolled into the then Nasarawa Primary School, Birnin Kebbi. Kabiru Turaki exhibited clear signs of a gifted child right from his days in primary school. He distinctively excelled in his academic work. He was very hardworking, obedient, brilliant and more than all these, he was very respectful. As a testimony of the commendable and sterling qualities of the young Kabiru, he was appointed as the Deputy Head Boy and Time Keeper of the school.\n\nKabiru Tanimu Turaki proceeded to the famous Barewa College, Zaria. Even though the school was full of brilliant students, he proved an exceptional person because he stood out in whatever he did. At Barewa College, Zaria, he was the Deputy House Captain, Suleiman Barau House and President Young Farmers Club of the school.\n\nIn furtherance of his education, Kabiru went to the then College of Arts and Science, Sokoto for his I.J.M.B. Again, it was another success story for Tanimu Turaki as he passed all his papers brilliantly. This earned him admission into one of Nigeria’s most respected Universities, the University of Jos, to read Law. He graduated with honour and proceeded to the Nigerian Law School, Lagos where he was called to the Nigerian Bar in 1986.\n\nKabiru Tanimu Turaki married with children's. He is a Muslim, Hausa Fulani from Kebbi state.\n\nKabiru Tanimu Turaki is the first lawyer from Kebbi state and the entire former North western States of this country to be elevated to the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria in 2002. Dan Masanin Gwandu, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, is a success story, an inspiration to the youth, a true Nigerian Patriot and an uncompromising believer in the continuous corporate existence of Nigeria as an indivisible nation.\n\nIn Kebbi State, he has contributed immeasurable to the betterment of lives of others through the provision of scholarships, employment opportunities and other forms of moral and financial support and encouragement.\n\nHe was appointed the Dan Masanin Gwandu by the Emir of Gwandu in February, 2002, in celebration of his achievements, and support for the development of his community. He was also conferred with the Traditional title of Zarumman Kabi by Argungu Emirate in 2012.\n\nKabiru Tanimu Turaki is not only an astute Lawyer, he is also a politician of no mean repute, respected by many, adored by many and cherished yet many more. The politician in Kabiru was exposed since the politics of the second republic. He has been so active in the politics of Kebbi State and indeed Nigerian. Having greatly endeared himself to his people, it is little surprise that his fame and popularity cutting across all strata engenders the strong faith and confidence his people readily repose in him. Moreover, as a team player with exceptional ability to grasp, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki fits in Mr. President’s dynamic team with a vision towards the attainment of the transformation objectives.\n\nThe Distinguished Senior Advocate of Nigeria has been a member of the National Executive Committee of the Nigerian Bar Association, Chairman Nigerian Bar Association Committee on the Judiciary, as well as member of the Governing Board of the Nigerian Judicail Institute. He was also appointed as the Chairman of the Nigerian Copyright Commission by President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, GCFR in 2012, a position he held until his appointment in 2013 as a Minister in the government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, saddled with the responsibility of piloting the affairs of the newly recreated Federal Ministry of Special Duties and Inter – Governmental Affairs, side by side with this he was also appointed by President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, GCFR, to serve as the Honourable Supervising Minister of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Productivity between 2014 – 2015. As a result of his dedication and team work, he was made the Chairman, White Paper Committee on the Report of the Presidential Committee of Experts on Inter – Professional Relationships in the Public Health Sector. President Goodluck Jonathan, GCFR, also recognized Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, SAN effort and identified him worthy of bringing an end to deadly security challenge in the North – East by appointing him as Chairman of the Presidential Committee on Dialogue and Peaceful Resolution of Security Challenges in the North.\n\nIn recognition of his contribution to the development of Nigeria and humanity, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki has been honoured throughout Nigeria and outside the country. Among his honours and awards are:\n\nKabiru Tanimu Turaki loves reading, travelling and sports\n\nOn graduation from the Nigerian Law School, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki opted to be a private legal practitioner. Unlike other lawyers who would remain permanent at home. Barrister Kabiru Tanimu Turaki went to Kano where he became a senior counsul with Alhaji Tijjani Abdullahi and Company (Solicitors and Advocates) in 1987. Kabiru Tanimu Turaki needed only two years to established himself as a force to be reckoned with in the legal forestry of Kano and its environs. This solid resolution gave birth to K. T. Turaki and Co. In 1989.\n\nAs a lawyer, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki has practiced in virtually every court and tribunal in the country. From the Magistrate Court, High Court, the Court of Appeal, Armed Robbery Tribual, Miscellaneous Offences Tribunal, Election Petition Tribunals and even to the Apex Court, the Supreme Court of Nigeria. In all these, he has recorded successes that are certainly beyond the ordinary. He has held professional responsibilities that are too numerous to mentioned. However, it is worthy to note that Kabiru Tanimu Turaki is a retained external solicitor and legal adviser to many organizations throughout Nigeria.\n\nAs a lawyer, he has held briefs for clients free of charge. This is a testimony of his love for the down trodden and less privileged. It is a fact that the second Senior Advocate of Nigeria from Kebbi State and the first Advocate of Nigeria from Sokoto State have all passed through his tutelage.\n\nKabiru Tanimu Turaki is a patriotic Nigerian who is always conscious of the need to develop Nigeria and has not failed to offer his contributions. He was appointed a member of the Kano State Law Reporting Committee in 1999 and a member of the Committee for the review of current legislations in Kano State. The following year, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki served in the committee that reviewed the Northern States Penal Code Law in 1992.\n\nWhen the Nigeria Bar Association was going through one of its trying moments, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki was one of those called upon to resolve its crisis in 1993.\n\nThe Danmasanin Gwandu was a member of the National Political Reform Conference in 2004, as well as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Team Nigerian Trust Fund, a body that was set up to galvanize private sector participation in the sports development and financing in Nigeria.\n\nWhen the defunct Bank of the North was in murky waters, Barrister Turaki, San, was among the intervention Board that was set up by the Regulatory Agencies (CBN/ NDIC) to restore the Bank that was on the verge of collapse to profitability.\n\nHe was at various times a member of the Council of Legal Education, as well as member for the review of Investment Laws in Nigeria. He was also a member of the Ministerial Committee for the Implementation of Reforms in the Nigeria Police Force as well as the Committees set up by the Body of Benchers to review the Laws Regulating Legal Practice in Nigeria.\n\nHis contribution to the development of the Law and the Legal Practice in Nigeria led to his appointment as a Notary Public by the Chief Justice of Nigeria, and his elevation of the prestigious rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) in 2002.\n\nThe Senior Advocate of Nigeria and Danmasanin, Gwandu Kabiru Tanimu Turaki is a member of many Professional Bodies, such as:\nHis political career began during school time. As a student, Barrister Kabiru Tanimu Turaki was Chairman of Caretaker Committee of the Students’ Union of SCAS, Sokoto. While at University of Jos, he was a member of the Senate of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS). This was in addition to being a member of the Students’ Representative Assembly of the University and President of the Federated Organisation of Sokoto State Students and President of Birnin Kebbi Youth Association (BIKEDA).\n\nWhen he came out to the larger world, Kabiru did not relent but continued participating in politics. He was Secretary, Youth Wing, of National Party of Nigeria (NPN) in 1981. He joined United Nigeria Congress Party (UNCP) in 1996 where he stood as Kebbi State Gubernatorial aspirant for the party in 1998, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki joined All Peoples’ Party where he was member of its National Executive Committee and in year 2000 he was elevated to member of its Board of Trustees (BOT).\n\nHowever, as paradigm of the political arena in the country shifted, Kabiru decamped to United Nigerian Peoples’ Party and contested for the seat of Kebbi State Governor in 2003. After the 2003 elections, he later decamped to PDP the same year and was the Party’s Kebbi State Gubernatorial Aspirant in 2007. Following series of betrayals and numerous controversies, Kabiru decided to Join ACN in 2011. This, however, did not last as he later returned to PDP the same year. In 2014/15, looking at his tremendous achievements and wealth of experience, Kabiru was appointed Deputy Director General (North) of PDP Presidential Campaign Organization.\n\nAlhaji Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, SAN, FCIArb (Danmasanin Gwandu) is presently Member of PDP Board of Trustees (BOT). A position he was appointed in 2015.\n\nIn 2013, the Danmasanin Gwandu was chosen meritoriously by President Goodluck E. Jonathan, GCFR and saddled with the responsibility for rebirthing Ministry of Special Duties and Inter – Governmental Affairs, a position he served assiduously. Looking closely at his immense contribution to the Federal Executive Council, the President added the responsibility of Supervising Ministry of Labour and Productivity in 2014. Kabiru Tanimu Turaki managed the two Ministries till 2015.\n\nWhen the need arose to open up dialogue with the Boko Haram insurgents, Danmasanin Gwandu was the National choice of the Federal Government of Nigeria. He was thus appointed as the Chairman of the Presidential Committee for Dialogue and Peaceful Resolution of Security Challenges in the North. A Committee which for more than two years engaged the insurgents in fruitful discussion that saw many key leaders of Boko Haram accepting the Dialogue option as a means of resolving the insecurity situation in the North East geo-political zone of Nigeria.\n\nAs part of his remarkable leadership qualities, he was several times chosen, among his colleagues at the Federal Executive Council, to lead Federal Government Delegation to Niger, Senegal, as well as Republic of Belarus.\n\nHe was in 2014 chosen by President Goodluck E. Jonathan, to serve as the Deputy Director General of his Campaign, and subsequently appointed as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP).\n\nOn April 24, 2013, President Goodluck Jonathan, GCFR inaugurated the Presidential Committee on Dialogue and Peaceful Resolution of Security Challenges in the North to be chaired by Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, SAN, a Minister of Special Duties in the Office of the President then and established its modalities in a ceremony at the Presidential Vill. The committee is to open talks with the Islamic insurgency Boko Haram within three months, and work out modalities for an amnesty for the insurgents and compensation for its victims.\n\nThe committee immediately began work and was able to engage some Boko Haram larders and already repented members into dialogue.\n\nOn June 166th 2013, the committee made first public statement detailing how the federal Government planned to begin the process of disarmament and de-radicalization of Boko Haram members who surrendered their arms as well as ensuring that they are well rehabilitated.\n\nOn July 11, 2013, the committee announced ceasefire deal with Boko Haram, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, stated that the ceasefire deal with Boko Haram has the blessings of the sect’s leader, Sheikh Abubakar Shekau. He further gave assurance that all Nigerians would be privy to a ceasefire agreement that would be signed in due course. In his words:\n\n\"“We’re still working on the framework where we’ll sign an agreement and we’ll make that public. Wherever and whenever we agree on the time and place, the international and local media as well as all Nigerians will be privy to it”\"\n\nOn the terms of the ceasefire agreement, he said it was still being worked on and the broader framework being discussed, after which Nigerians would be duly informed.\n\nOn July 13, 2013, barely forty eight hours after Kabiru Tanimu Turaki made this statement, the leader of Boko Haram, Sheikh Abubakar Shekau, punctured the Federal Government’s claim that the Islamist extremists had agreed to a ceasefire deal in the spirit of Ramadan.\n\nOn July 22, 2013, nine days after Shekau released his Video, Human Rights Writes’ Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) called on President Goodluck Jonathan to immediately disband the Kabiru Tanimu Turaki – led Presidential Committee on Dialogue and Peaceful Resolution of Security Challenges in the North. The association claimed that it would amount to grave disservice to the public for the committee to continue to exist after Shekau had Debunked Turaki’s claim that his committee has secured a ceasefire deal with Boko Haram. They further described the exercise as a “huge scam and a scandalous contraption that ought not to have been set up in the first place”. On July 31, 2013, Another Pan-Yoruba socio-political organization, Afenifere called for the immediate disbandment of the committee, saying recent events had over taken the its usefulness. They also called for an urgent probe of Turaki, who is also the Minister of Special Duties, to ascertain where his hoax of a ceasefire came from. Afenifere expressed concerns over renewed violent campaigns by the radical Islamist sect which claimed scores of lives in separate attacks in Borno and Kano States within 48 – hours.\n\nHowever, these calls by the two separate organization felt deaf ears as on the same day Afenifere’s call, President Goodluck Jonathan extended the timeline of the committee by two months. Kabiru Tanimu Turaki said the discordant tunes coming from the sect represent the various dynamics within them. There are people who are engaged in it on the basis of ideology or dogma. Some people are doing it on the basis of economic benefits. He added that some people are fifth columnists, who will make sure you don’t succeed in whatever you do.\n\nAt the end, after six months, Tanimu Tanimu led Presidential Committee on Dialogue and Peaceful Resolution of Security Challenges in the North submitted its report to President Goodluck Jonathan, GCFR.\n\nIn August 2013, Nigerian Government under the Administration of President Goodluck Jonathan,GCFR, rejected gay marriage at the Federal Executive Council (FEC) despite pressure from the international community to legalize it. Being the minister who gave an insight into how the Federal Government took the decision, a form of individuals and organizations who support gay marriage channelled their grievance directly to him. In a statement directly made by him, he said:\n\n\"“When we were at the Federal Executive Council and we were discussing the issue of gay marriage, we all said that it is very unnatural. How can we explain this to Nigerians? That a man will go and marry a man and a woman will go and marry a fellow woman. Then we also discussed the aspect of the psychological and mental trauma that the children of such union, whether adopted or not, will have to go through. For example when they go to school and they are asked; who are your parents? And they have to answer that their mummy and daddy are both men or are both female. This does not fit into a highly religious society like ours. There is nowhere in the world where God is worshipped like in Nigeria. Even traditional worshippers also take their religion very seriously, we pray a lot and that is why God has not forsaken Nigeria. We have been through situations that saw many counties went into pieces but whatever happens in Nigeria, like an elephant, Nigeria will only shake its body and move on”.\"\n\nThese words did not go well with those individuals and groups who support gay marriage. They attributed his words as being too religious denial of human rights.\n"}
{"id": "42026498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42026498", "title": "LGBT history in the Dominican Republic", "text": "LGBT history in the Dominican Republic\n\nThe act of public displays of homosexuality is illegal in the Dominican Republic. Sexual encounters that occur in private between two adults is legal. If acts are made public, one could be subject to face up to two years in prison. Although homosexuality was decriminalized, LGBT Dominicans still endure discrimination and violence due to their sexual orientation and/or sexuality identity. Members of the LGBT Community in the Dominican Republic are victims of hate crimes, extortion by the police, and discrimination when it comes to resources and employment services. Health care systems also face discrimination when seeking treatment from health care systems. Since the year 2006, there have been over 30 reports of possible hate crimes against transgender people that have been reported. In a 2014 poll, almost three quarters, 73%, of people in the Dominican Republican alone have said that members of the LGBT community have experienced some sort of violence or discrimination.\n\nDue to employment discrimination against LGBT members, a lot of transgender women resort to sex work.\n\nIn 2001, the prevalence rate for HIV/AIDS was 2.5 percent among adults between the ages of 15–49 years old. This number is four times the rate of that in the United States.\n\nHomosexuality in the Dominican Republic was decriminalized in 1822. \n\n"}
{"id": "42211086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42211086", "title": "List of Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidates in the 2014 Indian general election", "text": "List of Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidates in the 2014 Indian general election\n\nIn the 9 March 2013 issue of \"People's Democracy\", the central organ of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), lists of candidates of the Left Fronts of West Bengal and Tripura for the 2014 Indian general election were announced. In Tripura both Left Front nominees were CPI(M) leaders. In West Bengal, 32 out of the 42 Left Front candidates came from CPI(M). The newspaper also issued a 'first list' of 25 candidates of the party in other states. The list was finalised at a meeting of the Central Committee of the party in Delhi. The meeting also tasked the Politburo of the party to finalise the election manifesto of the party, to be released at a later date.\n\nThe 15 candidates of the party in Kerala, where it forms part of the Left Democratic Front, were decided at a CPI(M) state committee meeting held on 12 March 2014.\n\nOn 19 March 2014 the party released its third list of candidates, with names of candidates in Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Rajasthan. On 3 April 2014 the party published its fourth list of candidates, with names of candidates in Bihar, Punjab and Maharashtra. On 12 April 2014 three candidates in Andhra Pradesh were named. By this point the party had declared 97 candidates nationwide.\n\nNo candidates from Andhra Pradesh were listed in the 'first list' of candidates released by the CPI(M) Central Committee. In the state CPI(M) and the Communist Party of India could not reach an agreement on seat-sharing. Whilst CPI supported the creation of a separate Telangana state, CPI(M) had opposed the demand. On 10 March 2014 the CPI(M) Telangana State Committee secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram stated at a press meet in Khammam that the party would contest the Khammam, Mahabubabad, Nalgonda and Bhongir Lok Sabha seats. However, he reiterated that the names of candidates in Telangana would be defined only after alliances with other non-BJP/non-Congress parties had been settled.\n\nOn 26 March 2014 CPI(M) made public three names of candidates contesting Lok Sabha seats in Telangana. A 6 April 2014 article in \"People's Democracy\" mentioned the three Telangana seats, as well as naming Midiam Baburao as the candidate in Araku. By this point no alliances with other parties had been reached. A 12 April 2014 article released by the Press Trust of India named two candidates in Telangana as well as Midiam Baburao in Araku. However, the party hinted that it would further increase its list of candidates in the state. The party withdrew its candidate in the Khammam seat, Sameena Afroz, after an understanding had been reached with the YSR Congress Party.\n\nCPI(M) announced three candidates in Assam, including the party state committee secretary and former MP Uddhab Barman. An alliance was formed with the Communist Party of India in the state, with CPI contesting the Jorhat seat.\n\nNo names from Bihar were mentioned in the 'first list' of candidates released by the CPI(M) Central Committee. As of January 2014 CPI(M) sought to establish an alliance with the Janata Dal (United). Politburo member S. Ramachandran Pillai stated to \"The Hindu\" that the break between BJP and JD(U) was a major development, and that the JD(U) was the sole alternative as a partner to counter the influence of BJP in the election. According to a March 2014 report of NDTV was contesting the elections in Bihar alone and was planning to put up four candidates. The fourth list of candidates, released on 3 April 2014, carried four names from Bihar.\n\nThe party announced that Singhjibhai Katara would stand as its candidate in Dahod, a constituency in the tribal belt of the state. Katara had stood as a candidate in the 2009 election, obtaining 29,522 votes (5.52%).\n\nIn March 2014 the Haryana units of CPI(M) and CPI announced that they would contest 5 Lok Sabha seats jointly. CPI(M) launched three candidates whilst CPI fielded two. The CPI(M) candidates announced were Phool Singh Sheokand (former president of the Hisar Agriculture University Students Union, trade union leader), Ram Kumar Bahbalpuria (agricultural workers union leader, who had mobilised farmers against the Gorakhpur Nuclear Power Plant) and Master Sher Singh (leader of Haryana teachers union and Kisan Sabha).\n\nIn November 2013 CPI(M) named two candidates to contest the elections; Jagat Ram, secretary of the Lal Jhanda Union and secretary of the Shimla unit of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, and Kushal Bhardwaj, vice president of the Himachal Kisan Sabha and former leader of the Students Federation of India. Ahead of the election, the Himachal Pradesh state unit of CPI(M) declared that the party would contest poll jointly with CPI in the state. The slogan of the state-level election charter was defined as \"Reject Congress, Defeat BJP\".\n\nNo names from Jammu & Kashmir were included in the 'first list' of candidates released by the CPI(M) Central Committee. In October 2013 CPI(M), CPI, Lok Janshakti Party, Samajwadi Party, People's Democratic Front, J&K National Democratic Front and International Democratic Party founded a new alliance, the J&K People's United Front with CPI(M) J&K State Committee secretary Mohammed Yousuf Tarigami as convenor. On 2 April 2014 the People's United Front decided not to contest the Lok Sabha polls.\n\nDuring a visit to Ranchi on 10 March 2014, Politburo member Brinda Karat declared that CPI(M) would contest as part of a Left Front consisting of CPI(M), CPI, the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation and the Marxist Coordination Committee. Within the framework of this seat sharing CPI(M) would put up candidates in Rajmahal and Ranchi, whilst CPI would contest Dumka, Hazaribagh and Chatra, CPI(ML) would contest Koderma and MCC would field a candidate in Dhanbad. Karat also stated that further seats could be contested as well by the front. However, the following day the CPI(ML) Liberation general secretary stated that whilst they would support CPI(M) in Rajmahal and MCC in Dhanbad, their party would field a candidate as well in Ranchi.\n\nBoth CPI(M) candidates in the state are former Members of Legislative Assembly.\n\nIn reaction to the failure of other non-Congress/non-BJP parties in the state, particularly the Janata Dal (Secular), to reach a seat-sharing agreement three left parties (CPI(M), CPI and the All India Forward Bloc) to launch five candidates of their own. As per the CPI(M), it announced two candidates in the state. G.V. Srirama Reddy is the secretary of the Karnataka State Committee of the party and a former Member of Legislative Assembly for the Bagepalli constituency. K. Yadav Shetty is a CPI(M) District Secretariat member and an agrarian leader. He is the general secretary of the district-level unit of the Karnataka Pranta Rajya Sangha and a secretary of its statewide leadership, leading resistance against the proposed HPCL pipeline project in the area.\n\nIn Kerala CPI(M) contests elections as a constituent of the Left Democratic Front. In the list of the 15 CPI(M) candidates in Kerala released in mid-March were four incumbent Lok Sabha members and five independents. The CPI(M)-backed independents included the actor Innocent, former All India Congress Committee member Peelipose Thomas, the church-backed High Range Protection Committee leader Joice George and former Gujarat cadre IAS officer Christy Fernandez and V. Abdurahman.\n\nThe Kollam seat was allocated to former state minister and senior CPI(M) leader M.A. Baby, after the Revolutionary Socialist Party deserted the LDF and joined the United Democratic Front.\n\nThe party announced two candidates from Madhya Pradesh. Early CPI(M), CPI and Samajwadi Party had an alliance in the state, but this alliance was broken during the 2013 Legislative Assembly elections. Ahead of the 2014 CPI(M), CPI and Rashtriya Samanta Dal formed an alliance. CPI(M) candidate Akhilesh Yadav is the secretary of the Gwalior District unit of the party.\n\nThe party announced four candidates from Maharashtra. Ladak Kharpade is a member of the CPI(M) Thane District Secretariat. Tanaji Jaybhave is a member of the Nasik Municipal Corporation. D.B. Naik is a Kisan Sabha leader.\n\nThe party did not launch any candidate of its own in Manipur. In the Inner Manipur seat the party supported Moirangthem Nara Singh of CPI, as the common candidate of the Left and Secular Alliance. In the Outer Manipur seat it decided to support the NCP nominee Chungkhokai Doungel.\n\nIn Odisha the Lok Sabha elections of 2014 coincides with the Legislative Assembly election. Talks on seat sharing between CPI(M) and CPI concerned both elections. As of mid-March 2014 no seat-sharing agreement had been reached between the left parties and the Biju Janata Dal in the state. CPI(M) had, however, expressed that they would support CPI candidates. There had been some disagreements on the Balasore Lok Sabha seat, which both parties wanted to contest. In the end CPI(M) decided not to field a candidate there, instead they got support from CPI for their candidature in the Remuna assembly seat (which is within the boundaries of the Balasore Lok Sabha constituency). In the Berhampur Lok Sabha constituency Odisha, the CPI(M) fielded veteran communist leader and state secretariat member Ali Kishor Patnaik. CPI(M) also reached an agreement with CPI(ML) Liberation that they would exchange mutual support in the seats where they did contest against each other.\n\nOn 17 January 2014 CPI(M) Punjab State Committee Secretary Charan Singh Virdi stated that the party would contest four Lok Sabha seats on its own, fielding Balbir Singh Jadla in Anandpur Sahib, Sukhwinder Singh Sekhon in Ludhiana, Joginder Singh Aulakh from Sangrur and a fourth candidate from Jalandhar. On 28 February 2014, in response to the failure of Sanjha Morcha to reach a seat-sharing agreement, Virdi stated that the party would contest the four Lok Sabha seats on its own. The Sanjha Morcha had been formed ahead of the 2012 Legislative Assembly election, as a non-Congress/non-BJP alliance consisting of the People's Party of Punjab, Shiromani Akali Dal (Longowal), CPI(M) and CPI. Seat-sharing talks broke down on 28 February 2014 as information emerged that the PPP had held negotiations with the Indian National Congress.\n\nBalbir Singh Jadla and Sukhwinder Singh Sekhon were included in the 'first list' released by the CPI(M) Central Committee. Sukhwinder Singh Sekhon is the general secretary of the Punjab Kisan Sabha. Balbir Singh Jadla is a member of the Punjab State Committee of the party. On 3 April 2014 the party announced a third candidate in Punjab, the teacher Joginder Singh Aulakh contesting the Sangrur seat.\n\nThe candidates of the party in Rajasthan includes veteran leader, Central Committee member and former Member of Legislative Assembly Amraram. The party fought the elections as a constituent of the Rajasthan Loktantrik Morcha, a front consisting of CPI(M), CPI, Samajwadi Party, Janata Dal (United) and Janata Dal (Secular).\nAfter six rounds of seat-sharing talks with AIADMK for the Lok Sabha seats in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry failed to bear fruit, CPI(M) and CPI opted to make an alliance of their own. On 14 March 2014 the two parties held a joint press conference in Chennai, declaring that each of the parties would contest nine Lok Sabha seats each. This was the first time a formalised poll pact had been reached between the two parties in Tamil Nadu. At the press conference it was stated that CPI(M) would put up candidates in the Coimbatore, Madurai, Kanyakumari, Chennai (North), Dindigul, Tiruchi, Virudhunagar, Villupuram (SC) and Thanjavur seats.\n\nOn 17 March 2014 the party released the names of its nine candidates in the state. The list includes incumbent MP P.R. Natarajan, former MP A.V. Bellarmin and K. Samuel Raj, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front. U. Vasuki was fielded for the Chennai North seat, where the party concentrated its campaign on issues like sea incursion affecting the lives of local fishermen.\n\nIn Tripura, where CPI(M) had won both Lok Sabha seats in the 2009 election, the party decided to field two new candidates. Sankar Prasad Dutta is the state general secretary of CITU and a member of the CPI(M) Tripura State Committee since 2012. He is a former youth leader and Member of the Legislative Assembly of Tripura. Dutta filed his nomination on 18 March 2014. Jitendra Choudhury is the state government Minister for Forest, Rural Development and Industries and Commerce. He is a member of the CPI(M) Tripura State Committee since 1988 and a member of the Central Kisan Committee (the national leadership of the All India Kisan Sabha).\n\nThe party fielded Hiralal Yadav in the hotly contested Varanasi seat. Yadav filed his nomination papers on 21 April 2014. His followers raised the slogan 'Na Modi, na Kejriwal, abki baar Hiralal' ('Not Modi, Not Kejriwal, this time is Hiralal'). Announcing his support for Yadav's campaign the All India People's Front convenor Akhilendra Pratap Singh argued that both Modi and Kejriwal would implement World Bank dictates.\n\n32 out of the 42 Left Front candidates in West Bengal came from the CPI(M). 20 of the CPI(M) candidates were newcomers in their parliamentary constituencies. Five of the CPI(M) candidates were women. 25-year old Sheikh Ibrahim Ali, candidate in Tamluk, is the youngest Lok Sabha candidate in the history of the party.\n\nThe party fielded K.G. Das as its candidate for the sole seat in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Das is the secretary of the State Organising Committee of the party in the islands and the convener of the Left Democratic Front, Andaman and Nicobar Islands. LDF unites the local branches of CPI(M), All India Forward Bloc, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Telugu Desam Party, CPI(ML) Liberation and Lok Janshakti Party.\n\nAhead of the election CPI(M) fielded Dr. Muneer, a social activist from Minicoy, as its candidate for the sole seat of the Union Territory of Lakshadweep.\n\nFollowing the break-down of seat-sharing talks with AIADMK, a seat-sharing agreement of CPI(M) and CPI was declared on 15 March (see the Tamil Nadu section). As part of this agreement CPI(M) would support a CPI candidate in the Puducherry seat.\n\n"}
{"id": "11791600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11791600", "title": "Lower Excise Fuel and Beer Party", "text": "Lower Excise Fuel and Beer Party\n\nThe Lower Excise Fuel and Beer Party is a minor Australian political party that fielded several candidates in the 2001 and 2004 Federal elections. Their main policies include repealing the Goods and Services Tax and lowering the excise on fuel and beer prices. Many of their policies are centre-left. It was founded by David O'Loughlin, a Coffs Harbour resident. \n\n"}
{"id": "45416115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45416115", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Indonesia)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Indonesia)\n\nThe Ministry of Defence (Indonesian: \"Kementerian Pertahanan\" abbreviated Kemhan) of the Republic of Indonesia, formerly the Department of Defence of the Republic of Indonesia is a government ministry responsible for the defence affairs of Indonesia. The minister is currently Ryamizard Ryacudu since 27 October 2014.\n\nThe Ministry of Defence is the one of three ministries (along with Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Home Affairs) explicitly mentioned in Constitution of Indonesia, which means the three ministries cannot be replaced or dissolved by the President.\n\nIf both the President and Vice President of Indonesia die, resign, or are unable to perform their duties, the Minister of Defence, along with Minister of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Home Affairs, jointly execute presidential duties until the succeeding President and Vice President are elected by the People's Consultative Assembly within thirty days.\n\nAfter the Proclamation of the Independence of Indonesia on August 17 1945, the Preparatory Committee for Indonesian Independence (PPKI) immediately set up the first Presidential Cabinet which in the first cabinet didn't have a Minister of Defense. The function of the State Defense at that time was at the Minister of Public Security. On October 6 1945, Supriyadi was declared Minister of Public Security. However, he never appeared, and on 20 October was replaced by interim minister Imam Muhammad Suliyoadikusumo.\n\nDuring the time of the First Sjahrir Cabinet, the function of the state defense was also under the authority of the Minister of Public Security, held by Mr. Amir Sjarifoeddin. However, in the Second Sjahrir Cabinet, the People's Security Minister was renamed as the Minister of Defense who still remained in office was Amir Sjarifuddin. At the time of Mr. Amir Sjarifuddin became Prime Minister, the Defense Minister is held also by the Prime Minister. In the period of the First Hatta Cabinet, when the Unitary State of the Republic of Indonesia was in an emergency state due to the pressure of the Dutch forces, the Vice President Mohammad Hatta served as interim minister of defense.\n\nIn the First Development Cabinet, the Minister of Defense and Security was held by the Indonesian President Gen. Soeharto. Only later on the Second Development Cabinet and subsequently, the function of state defense was always united with the security function and was under the Ministry of Defense and Security where the Minister of Defense and Security would if needed serve concurrently as Commander of the Armed Forces (\"Panglima ABRI\") (this was the case four times during Soeharto's presidency). In 1985, as part of a wide reorganization of the armed forces, military appointments to posts of ministers and below began to phased out, allowing retired officers and civilians to serve in the ministry.\n\nOn the 1st of July 2000, the Ministry of Defense reformed itself with the separation of the TNI and the Polri and also separated the positions in which the Minister of Defense can be of a civilian background, and can no longer concurrently serve as the TNI Commander (Panglima). Regulation through defense is regulated through Law no. 3 of 2002 on State Defense and Law no. 34 of 2004 on the Indonesian National Armed Forces.\n\nLaw no. 3 of 2002 on State Defense Article 16 further stipulates the responsibilities of the Minister of Defense, as follows:\n\nPursuant to Article 18 Paragraph 4, the Commander of the National Armed Forces shall be responsible to the President in the use of the state defense component and cooperate with the Minister in meeting the needs of the Indonesian National Armed Forces.\n\nThe Ministry of Defense has the task of organizing defense affairs in the government to assist the President in organizing state administrations. In carrying out its duties, the Ministry of Defense performs the functions of:\n\n\nThe organizational structure of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Indonesia is as follows: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21391201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21391201", "title": "Ministry of Education (Thailand)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Thailand)\n\nThe Ministry of Education (; ; Abrv: MOE) is a Thai governmental body responsible for the oversight of education in Thailand. It was established by King Rama V (Chulalongkorn) in 1892 as the Ministry of Public Instruction (; ; literally \"Ministry of Religious Affairs\") which controlled religion, education, healthcare, and museums. In 1941, the ministry changed its Thai name to the present one. \n\nIts headquarters have been in the Chan Kasem Palace since 1937.\n\n\"Quality student-centred education is provided for everyone with distribution of equitable education opportunities, in cities, rural and outreached areas. Education leads to people's vigour building. Vigorous and knowledgeable people are powerful capital to fight poverty.\"\n\nThe National Identity Office, which defines and promotes \"Thainess\" is somewhere within the MOE.\n\n\n\nPublic Organization in Public Organization Act. B.E. 2442\n\nPublic Organization in Specifically Act. \n"}
{"id": "46748881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46748881", "title": "Míriam Martinho", "text": "Míriam Martinho\n\nMíriam Martinho (born 1954) is one of the leading feminists in Brazil and part of the second generation of feminist journalists, who emerged in the 1980s. She was one of the first people to bring lesbianism openly into the fold of feminism and founded one of the first Lesbian-Feminist organizations in the country. She and Rosely Roth gained recognition for staging a protest, known at the \"Brazilian Stonewall\" at Ferro's Bar in 1983. She has written for numerous LGBT and feminist journals and has submitted expert testimony on the state of the LGBT community in Brazil.\n\nMíriam Martinho was born in 1954 in Rio de Janeiro and grew up in the city of São Paulo. She is one of the pioneering figures of Feminism in Brazil and the Brazilian Homosexual Movement.\n\nThe feminist movement in Brazil, became fairly active in 1975. After the II Congress of the Paulista Women there was a split between leftist leaders and feminists. At that time, feminists were supporting the concept of gender, rather than class, as a focus for political empowerment and equality. The schism resulted in the feminists moving forward on their own and a flurry of magazines and critical thought on feminism emerged. Many feminist organizations were founded each with specific themes: education, health, political empowerment, sexuality, violence, among others. Martinho was part of this movement, founding the first lesbian feminist group, \"Grupo Lésbico-Feminista\", in 1979. In 1981 the group disbanded and part of the members went on to form the \"Grupo Ação Lésbica-Feminista\" (GALF), the most active of whom were Martinho and Rosely Roth. In 1989, GALF reformed as an NGO called \"Um Outro Olhar\".\n\nIn 1981, Martinho began producing an activist newspaper called \"ChanacomChana\" as the voice of GALF. Sometimes it was produced triannually and sometimes quarterly, but it circulated through the 1980s. It was the first journal to expand the idea of including lesbians in the feminist movement, which was seen as very radical at the time. In 1989, when GALF was formed as an NGO, the journal changed its name to coincide with that of the NGO, \"Um Outro Olhar\" and it primary began to focus on LGBT issues with feminism as a secondary focus.\n\nThe publication \"ChanacomChana\" was directly responsible for the event that has been called the \"Brazilian Stonewall\". On 19 August 1983, a protest was held against Ferro's Bar, known for its lesbian clientele, in São Paulo, because they refused to allow \"ChanacomChana\" to be distributed. Martin and Roth staged a demonstration, calling together artists, intellectuals and lawyers, to protest. According to Martin, the difficulty started almost a month earlier when the owners ejected she and Roth for trying to distribute the paper in the bar. There was a physical altercation and they were banned from distributing the paper. They planned the demonstration to protest the ban and got a lot of press coverage because their approach was pro-active and non-violent, but also because they were open about fighting for their rights in a time when many lesbians were in hiding. After the protest, the bar developed an even larger lesbian following.\n\nSince the 1990s, Martinho has been involved in an endeavor to improve the health care provided to women, but especially lesbians. As many of them do not disclose their status to health practitioners, she feels they are extremely vulnerable. In 2003, she presented research for periodic review of the state of the LGBT population in Brazil. Her report was highlighted by the US State Department and the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada in their evaluation.\n\nMartinho works as a journalist and serves at the editor in chief of the websites Umoutroolhar and Contraocorodoscontentes two of the most important portals of Intelligentsia Lesbian in Brazil.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40336070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40336070", "title": "Naomi Scheman", "text": "Naomi Scheman\n\nNaomi Scheman is a Professor of Philosophy and Gender, Women's and Sexuality Studies at the University of Minnesota. She is also a guest professor at the Umeå Center for Gender Studies in Sweden. Scheman was one of the first scholars to bring Wittgenstein's thoughts in to feminist philosophy.\n\nScheman received her bachelor's in philosophy from Barnard College in 1968. She went on to receive a master's and doctorate in philosophy from Harvard University, in 1971 and 1978, respectively.\n\nScheman is currently a professor at University of Minnesota, and a guest professor at Umeå University. During her time at the University of Minnesota, she served as the chair of the Gender, Women's, and Sexuality Studies department from 1986-1989, and has served as the Director of Graduate Studies since 2007. Prior to her current positions, Scheman has held appointments at the University of Ottawa, Columbia University, the Center for Advanced Feminist Studies (including serving as director from 1991-1992 and associate dean of the graduate school from 2000-2003,) and the University of Gothenburg.\n\nScheman also serves as a member of the editorial boards of \"\" and \"NORA (the Nordic Women's Studies Journal)\". She also served as an associate editor of \"Signs\" between 1990 and 1993.\n\nScheman was one of the first academics to read Wittgenstein in a feminist light, and, likewise, was one of the first academics to bring Wittgenstein's ideas to feminism. Much of Scheman's work has centered around the implications of the interactions between ontology and epistemology. Scheman is especially interested in the ways in which transgressive practices shine light on the actions of normal people, and on how insights gleaned from these observations allow for the chance of acting differently. (Scheman is also a strong believer that mental phenomena such as race and class are socially constructed, and is a strong opponent of physicalism.)\n\nScheman has written three books: \"Engenderings: Constructions of Knowledge, Authority, and Privilege\" in 1993, \"Is Academic Feminism Dead?\" in 2000, \"Feminist Interpretations of Wittgenstein\" in 2002, and most recently \"Shifting Ground: Knowledge & Reality, Transgression & Trust\" in 2011. She has also written a significant number of peer-reviewed papers, as well as a number of articles, commentaries, and presentations including.\n\nIn \"Engenderings: Constructions of Knowledge, Authority, and Privilege\", Scheman critiques aspects of modern philosophy that serve or reinforce injustice. The book is structured as a collection of essays. She focuses especially on modern philosophy's apparent disdain for the body from which it, by necessity, sprung, and attempts to reground philosophy in the physical bodies and relationships it arose from. Much of \"Engenderings\" draws on Scheman's personal experience as a woman philosopher, attempting to figure out how to occupy the role of 'woman philosopher' while making as few concessions to the culture of intellectual privilege that led her to occupy that identity in the first place as possible.\n"}
{"id": "12243400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12243400", "title": "Nhân Văn–Giai Phẩm affair", "text": "Nhân Văn–Giai Phẩm affair\n\nThe Nhân Văn-Giai Phẩm affair () was a cultural-political movement in North Vietnam in the late 1950s. Two periodicals were established during that time, Nhân Văn (, \"Humanities\") and Giai Phẩm (, \"Masterpieces\"), many issues of which were published demanding freedom of speech, creativity and human rights. Following a loosening of political restrictions with some similarities to the Chinese Hundred Flowers Campaign, there was a hardening of attitudes. After those two major journals were closed down, their political associates were imprisoned or reeducated. Moreover, the agenda of \"Nhân Văn-Giai Phẩm\" was linked to \"reactionary\" political projects by North Vietnamese government.\n\nThe 1954 Geneva Accords marked the end of anti-French struggle and provided the \"Viet Minh\" with prestige and authority. After the close of the Geneva Conference, the VWP faced two fundamental tasks: to reconstruct the north and to unify the south. To rebuild the north, the VWP leadership continued to look to China for assistance and China immediately began to offer aid to help the DRV. But the reconstruction efforts in the DRV following the First Indochina War underwent many trials and tribulations. The 1954 Geneva Accords on \"Nhan Van-Giai Pham\" facilitated enormous emigration from the north to the south from July 1954 to May 1955. The mass migration added to the social disorder generated by the other contemporary political reforms in North Vietnam.\n\nThe key global preludes of \"Nhan Van-Giai Pham\" affair may be located in the ups and downs of reform and repression that dominated political life in the eastern bloc and China throughout the turbulent years of the 1950s. Most significant was the death of Joseph Stalin in 1953, the rise of currents of de-Stalinization promoted by political elites, and the growth of agitation throughout the Eastern bloc on the part of workers, intellectuals, and students. This course was the so-called Liberalization, which accelerated in the wake of Nikita Khrushchev`s Secret Speech denouncing the crimes of Stalin in Feb 1956. The uprisings in Eastern bloc later that year brought this era of high de-Stalinization which inspired and stimulated not only the Soviet bloc, but many intellectuals within Chinese and North Vietnamese state-party.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the Sino-Soviet relations greatly complicated North Vietnam`s reconstruction and the path toward reunification. By the 1950s, \"Ha Noi\" faced two different modes of revolution: peaceful reunification through socialist development of the North and violent reunification through liberation struggle in the South, due to the separate ideology between Moscow and Beijing. For the North Vietnam, the close connection, promoted by geographical, historical and cultural links with China was much deeper than those with the Soviet Union. In this context, Vietnamese developments in the era of de-Stalinization had more connections with China than with the USSR. However, the Soviet Union continued to be considered by the Vietnamese communists as the ideological center of the world communist movement.\n\nAfter the cancellation of 1956 nationwide election, both Beijing and Moscow encouraged \"Ho Nai\" to continue its political and economic reconstruction within the North. While Chinese influence in the North Vietnamese political reforms should be considered in a totally different light. Three in particular political movements were causing widespread discontent in North Vietnam which were all resulted from DRV`s imitation of the Chinese model, including the rectification campaign, the land reform and the correction of errors.\n\nIn 1950s, \"Ho Chi Minh\" made an official visit to China to sign a military aid agreement with the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) leadership in Beijing. With the introduction of Chinese military aid came the massive influx of Chinese-styled institutions, reforms and advisors. A massive organizational rectification campaign was launched to study the Chinese 1942 Yan`an campaign, and thousands of cadres were purged. Almost at the same time, a two-phase land reform campaign modeled on china`s was also put into action from 1953 to 1956. This alarmed many intellectuals because most had ties to the landlord classes more or less. Since many intellectuals were labeled \"class enemies\", a new label of \"progressive personalities\" was created for them if they voluntarily surrendered all their property to the state, in addition to serving the revolution. The twin notorious movements of the rectification campaign and the land reform cause serious damage not only on old structures in the village but on the party apparatus, which might have sowed chaos.\n\nIn August 1956, the party admitted serious problems with the land reform, and it launched a period of \"correction of errors\" in October the same year. Nevertheless, official acknowledgement of land reform errors could not prevent, or perhaps generated further discord in the countryside, such as a violent peasant rebellion in \"Nghe An\" province in November 1956. Although the chaos occurred in the countryside, the whole country was in disorder. Many urban intellectuals who had been mobilized by the party to participate in the campaigns stoked the atmosphere of dissent in North Vietnam. Moreover, the fact that those series of movements were inspired by Maoist that stimulated other unpopular policies of the new regime that contributed to a belief that the Vietnamese revolution was a misplaced enthusiasm for the Chinese model.\n\nBoth China and North Vietnam were influenced by the currents of de-Stalinization during that time, while the North Vietnamese case suggests a more direct influence from China. With the criticism of de-Stalinization by Mao Zedong, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) pursued a high key official campaign against independent intellectuals such as Hu Feng in 1955. But, in a stunning reversal, it launched the famous liberal Hundred Flowers movement the following year with the eulogizing of Mao Zedong himself. Following a year during which intellectuals were encouraged to air in public grievances about the party and its policies, the CCP abruptly reversed course again. In 1957, it shut down the Hundred Flowers movement and launched an \"anti-rightist campaign\" designed to root out and punish intellectuals who had exposed themselves during the previous year.\n\nSame way in North Vietnam, a Vietnamese intellectual \"Tran Dan\" was inspired and encouraged by Hu Feng and published \"Nhan Van\" magazine in 1955. Then the party was aware of the close connection between \"Tran Dan\" and Hu Feng, and it should not be a surprise that when \"Tran Dan\" was purged and arrested in February 1956, six months after Hu Feng was imprisoned, the rationale for some cadres involved in the arrest was \"China has Hu Feng, perhaps we also have a Hu Feng.\" \"Tran Dan\"`s arrest marked the start of \"Nhan Van Giai Pham\" affair.\n\nThe official address of the \"Nhân Văn\" (\"humanities\") paper was 27 Hang Khay, Hanoi. Its editor was Phan Khôi, and its secretary was Tran Duy. The \"Nhân Văn\" group consisted of the dissident North Vietnamese intellectuals from 1955–58. This group was led by Phan Khôi, a revolutionary from Quảng Nam. Most of these intellectuals had participated in the movement against French colonialism. After the first phase of land reform, they became disillusioned and started a political movement demanding political freedom and democracy.\n\nThe first edition of \"Giai Pham Mùa xuân\" (\"Works of Spring\"), also edited by Phan Khôi, was published in March, 1956. By December 1956, they had published two issues (Fall and Spring) of \"Giai Phẩm\" and five issues of \"Nhân Văn\".\n\nAmong intellectuals that joined the group around the two journals were the lawyer Nguyễn Mạnh Tường, Dr Đặng Văn Ngữ, scholar Đào Duy Anh, philosopher Trần Đức Thảo, poets Trần Dần, Hoàng Cầm, Phùng Quán, Quang Dũng, Văn Cao, Nguyễn Hữu Đang, Lê Đạt and painter Bùi Xuân Phái.\n\nPrior to the founding of \"Nhân Văn\" and \"Giai Phẩm\" journals, there was an insurgent campaign waged within the army to loosen censorship imposed on military writers and artists.\n\nIn February 1955, about thirty writers and artists in the army drafted a resolution to the party`s central committee \"demanding the abolition of the General Political Bureau`s leadership over arts and letters in the army.\", which included three demands: \"1) hand over the leadership of arts and letters to the artists and writers; 2) establish an arts and letters association within the structure of army organization; 3) abolish the existing military regime insofar as it affects the artists and writers serving in the armed forces.\" In the same month, they proposed a political petition based on the above three requests, but the petition was rejected.\n\nThe leading figure of this dissenting intellectual campaign was \"Tran Dan\", a soldier-poet who became disenchanted with Maoist cultural policy following a two-month study tour to China in late 1954. as we can see that, however, \"Tran Dan\" was in China at the height of the Hu Feng crisis.\n\nHu Feng, a literary critic and longtime member of the Chinese Communist Party, sent a letter to the central committee in July 1954 that criticized his grievances on the party`s literary authority figures. Although he had no intention of challenging party authority, Hu Feng`s action reflected a wide range of intellectuals and artists` grievances and was taken as evidence of the earliest cleavage between the party and intellectuals after the formation of the PRC. Hu Feng was arrested in July 1955, and the campaign against him broadened into a campaign to reeducate the masses and reinforce the official line. After Hu Feng`s personal letters were published, there is no doubt that \"Tran Dan\" was exposed to the materials related to Hu Feng`s letter, and later his friends acknowledged the connection between Hu Feng and \"Tran Dan\" in a cartoon published in \"Nhan Van\", the most influential Vietnamese dissident magazine. As a result, Tran Dan was also arrested in February 1956, six month later than Hu Feng`s imprisoned.\n\nThe failure of \"Tran Dan\"-led insurgent campaign significantly frustrated the intellectuals who naively believed that their contribution to the revolution had won the party`s trust, and thus prepared the ground for the intellectuals` more radical challenge to the party the following year.\n\nThe second stage of \"Nhan Van-Giai Pham\" was most liberal from the appearance of the first issue of \"Giai Pham\" in February 1956, although shortly after \"Tran Dan\" was arrested, and until late November 1956. In particular from August to November 1956, the movement experienced its golden age. The coincidence of the publication of the first issue of \"Giai Pham\" and Khrushchev`s Secret Speech raised the prospect that a period of liberalization was forthcoming. Indeed, the international circumstances had turned favorable to the intellectuals during this stage. Both the Twentieth Congress and the Chinese Double-Hundred policy had immediate impact upon the relationship between Vietnamese intellectuals and the party. and allowed Vietnamese intellectuals the space to vigorously voice their concerns. The Soviet first deputy premier went to Beijing and \"Hanoi\" in April 1956 in order to introduce the new Soviet line. In the same month \"Tran Dan\" was released from prison, mainly because of the change in international atmosphere.\n\nDomestically, a similarly liberal atmosphere dominated the Tenth Plenum of the VWP in September during which party leaders \"correction of errors\" of the land reform and called for a revival of \"democratic rights\" and the \"people`s freedom.\" after that, many issues of \"Nhan Van and Giai Pham\" appeared, along with other independent journals came out intermittently, including \"Tram hoa\" (Hundred flowers), \"Noi that\" (Speak truth), \"Tap san phe binh\" (Criticism newsletter), \"Sang tao\" (Creativity), and \"Dai moi\" (New land).\n\nAt the August 1956 Conference of the Vietnamese Literary Association, intellectuals openly demanded greater freedom, just as their counterparts in China and the Soviet Union were doing at that time. In September, five issues of the independent journal \"Nhan Van\" were permitted to publish, along with many other private publications that rallied dissenting intellectuals and flooded news-stands, symbolized a unique time of liberalization was represented. In an attempt to influence these publishing ventures and to stop the wave of criticism, the \"Van Hghe\", which was an official weekly newspaper for literature and the arts, published a \"self-criticism\" of \"Hoai Thanh\". Nevertheless, in that period, the DRV held a provisional tolerate official stance toward the directness of the writers and artists.\n\nAfter the Soviet suppression of the Hungarian revolt in early November 1956 and the outbreak of rural riot in \"Quynh Luu\", the liberal stage of \"Nhan Van-Giai Pham\" ended. Instead,the Viet Minh began to strike back against the intellectuals by publishing editorials and commentaries and even \"letters from audiences\" to condemn anti-socialist elements. In the meanwhile, government began to harass the editors of \"Nhan Van-Giai Pham\" by accusing them of breaking the law for failing to deposit three copies of the journal with the Central Press Office prior to publication.\n\nA more aggressive campaign against \"Nhan Van-Giai Pham\" was launched after the sixth issue of \"Nhan Van\" was seized. The campaign featured the contemporary publications to denunciate the movement. The entry from \"Cuu quoc\" reflected the high degree of belligerence of the campaign:\n\nNhan Van distorted the truth, exaggerated facts, made up stories, sowed doubts and pessimism in our regime, our party and our government, and created an atmosphere of mistrust and division within our ranks: between soldiers and the army, between the people and the authorities, between the members and non-members of the party, and even between leaders and the masses.\n\nAt the same time, the campaign also labeled the \"Nhan Van Giai Pham\" as \"reactionary\" political agenda. After more than a month of such campaign, on 18 December, the \"Hanoi\" Administrative Committee suspended the two journals of \"Nhan Van\" and \"Giai Pham\", closed other publishing houses and confiscated the copies of previous issues. But the storm of political condemnation toward \"Nhan Van-Giai Pham\" quickly passed away by the early 1957. For the reasons that remain vague (which possibly related to the ongoing Hundred Flowers campaign in China), the party-state stopped its anti-\"Nhan Van Giai Pham\" campaign, and no one arrested or fired among all those targeted in this campaign.\n\nSame as the second stage of the movement following the \"Tran Dan\"`s case, this new stage was characterized by a mixture of official moderate repression and tolerance toward the leaders of \"Nhan Van-Giai Pham\" and their ongoing activities within the public domain. In May, a new literary weekly, \"Van\" (\"literature\") appeared as the organ of the newly formed Writers` Association. Under the banner of \"Van\" the authors for \"Nhan Van and Giai Pham\" quickly rallied. Influenced by the end of the Hundred Flowers movement and the onset of the anti-rightist campaign in China during July 1957 in some way, \"Van\", was harshly criticized in an article in \"Hoc Tap\" (\"studies\"), but such criticism never led to an orchestrated press campaign or forced the writers to be silent. In short, the cultural atmosphere in North Vietnam for most of 1957 was mild and tolerant at least.\n\nThis above resumed liberalization lasted for almost one year and was finally ended in early 1958. On 6 January 1958 the politburo of the party issued the \"Politburo Resolution on Literary Affairs,\" demanding the expulsion of all \"subversive elements\" from literary organizations and requiring the education of intellectuals with Marxism–Leninism and physical labor. This resolution was followed by suspension of the publication of Van indefinitely and assigned artists and cultural cadres to a three-stage \"struggle class\" that involved re-education, ideological struggle, and hard labor. A re-education course was organized for nearly 500 writers and artists in January 1958, and from March to April 1958 the LDP Central Committee`s Subcommittee for Arts and Letters organized a \"study session\" for some 304 writers, poets, and other cultural cadres, each of whom was forced to make a \"self-criticism.\"\n\nIn the end, four dissenters were expelled from the Union of Arts and Literature and others, such as poets \"Tran Dan\" and \"Le Dat\", were suspended. And 300 of the 476 people reeducated in the same year were writers and artists.\n\nOn October 21–23, 1956, a delegation composed of 40 writers and artists discussed the questions of intellectual freedom with such prominent party cadres as Trường Chinh, Xuân Thủy, and Tố Hữu. Of the intellectuals present, the young poet Lê Đạt expressed particularly sharp criticism of the regime's intolerant cultural policies in general, and of To Huu and Hoai Thanh in particular. Among others, he condemned the imprisonment of the poet Trần Dần, and the harassment to which Văn Cao, a famous poet and composer, had been subjected. On the second day, it was the artists' turn to speak. On the third day, Truong Chinh declared that the intellectuals' complaints were justified, but he instructed the participants not to publish anything about the debate in the press. The Hungarian revolution of October 23 (and particularly the Soviet invasion of November 4) put an end to North Vietnam's short-lived intellectual \"thaw\". The editors of \"Nhan Van\" intended to publish a special issue about the Hungarian events, whereupon the authorities banned the paper, and adopted a tougher attitude toward intellectual dissidence.\n\nOn December 15, 1956, the Communist Party, having hesitated for two years, finally shut down the organization, closed the office, and arrested key participants. Some were imprisoned and others sent to re-education camp (Vietnamese: trại học tập cải tạo) and others made to undertake self-criticism. The event was publicised by \"Trăm Hoa Đua Nở Trên Đất Bắc\" (\"Hundreds of Flowers Blooming in the North\"), published in 1959 by the Congress of Cultural Freedom in Saigon, and in the West by Hoàng Văn Chí in \"The New Class in North Vietnam\" (Saigon, 1964).\n\nAfter the Doi Moi reforms in the late 1980s, many of the imprisoned intellectuals were rehabilitated. The government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam recognized many of the writers and poets in the late 1990s and 2000s (decade) with many state awards, often posthumously.\n\n\"Nhan Van-Giai Pham\" affair was seems like an interlude of North Vietnamese political history, which did not last so long, but its legacy still impact on current Vietnamese society. It was the first and most formative event in political dissidence under the VCP`s rule, and the issues raised by dissidents in the 1950s remain unchanged. First, \"Nhan Van Giai Pham\" is a reference point for those who want political reform, the restoration of intra-party democratization, and greater intellectual freedom. Secondly, although \"Nhan Van Giai Pham\" is still sensitive to present Hanoi, it could not be neglect because it continues as a rallying point for those who demand the party reopen the matter and rehabilitate the victims. Third, this affair also can be a bridge for the new generation of artists and intellectuals to link to their predecessors` past. Finally, how the regime responds to this event, even today, tells much about the state of political reform in Vietnam.\n\nFrom the orthodox point of view, Zachary Abuza (2001) considered that the intellectuals in \"Nhan Van Giai Pham\" were a group of dissidents who were joined the \"Viet Minh\" out of patriotism, not a love of communism. Indeed, a South Vietnamese scholar argued that the intellectuals were \"encouraged by the hope that they might use the resistance organization to assemble nationalist elements and to create a force which would actually tip the scales against the communists within the ranks of the resistance.\" Therefore, the dissent was originated from two disparate ideologies between the intellectuals and \"Viet Minh\".\n\nAnother feature of \"Nhan Van Giai Pham\" from the orthodox interpretation is its close connection with China. Abuza (2001) stated that both the rectification campaign and the land reform campaign modeled on China, and Chinese logistical support was very necessary to \"Viet Minh\" during 1950s. Yinghong Cheng (2004) insists that \"Nhan Van-Giai Pham\"`s connection with China was more obviously than with the Eastern Europe. It was looked upon China as its inspiration, and it went through a saddlelike course which at some points corresponded to the circumstances in China.\n\nDifferent from the orthodox viewpoint which characterizes \"Nhan Van Giai Pham\" as a \"dissident\" movement, the revisionist viewpoint suggests that the standard view of \"Nhan Van-Giai Pham\" fails to appreciate the \"reform Communist\" character of its agenda. Moreover, when examined within a broader transnational context—one marked by the emergence of loosely connected reformist movements throughout the Communist world in the 1950s inspired by de-Stalinization--\"Nhan Van Giai Pham\" comes off as a relatively restrained effort to \"save\" Vietnamese Communism by transforming it from within.\n\nPeter Zinoman (2001) insisted that the intellectuals were all from late colonial era, during 1950s, some disenchanted intellectuals abandoned \"Viet Minh\" and others for the sake of higher career positions in cultural bureaucracy of DRV chose to become \"true believers\" to Maoism. Between the rejectionists and the true believers was a much larger group of Viet Minh intellectuals who came to express their disappointment during \"Nhan Van Giai Pham\" period.\n\nOn the other hand, this affair has been highly related to global currents of reform communism after the death of Stalin from mid-1950 by the revisionist historians. Affinities between \"Nhan Van Giai Pham\" and Eastern bloc reform Communism may be found in shared patterns of language and argumentation as well as in a common repertoire of political positions and cultural references. In addition, \"Nhan Van Giai Pham\"`s kinship with a moderate version of reform Communism is evident in its leaders` insistent expression of fidelity to the VWP and Marxism–Leninism.\n\nLien-Hang T. Nguyen (2006) stated that neither totally imitated to Chinese models, nor had affinity with Eastern bloc, \"Viet Minh\" was actually intertwined with the deterioration of Sino-Soviet relations during 1950s. The North Vietnamese intended to maintain a neutral position under the influences from both China and Soviet Union because it could not afford to alienate either Moscow or Beijing. Nevertheless, since the Vietnamese communists were geographically, culturally and historically closer to the Chinese Communist Party, and since Moscow demonstrated further inclination to avoid a confrontation with the United States after 1954 Geneva Accords, the voices within the VWP calling for a Vietnamese move closer to Beijing in its ideological orientation.\n\nTherefore, according to this interpretation, although Nhan Van Giai Pham affair was shaped by the current of de-Stalinization and the Hundred Flowers Movement from eastern bloc and China during 1950s, it still tried to find an independent way to deal with such political struggles.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166346", "title": "OPEC", "text": "OPEC\n\nThe Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC, ) is an intergovernmental organization of nations, founded in 1960 in Baghdad by the first five members (Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela), and headquartered since 1965 in Vienna, Austria. the 15 countries accounted for an estimated 44 percent of global oil production and 81.5 percent of the world's \"proven\" oil reserves, giving OPEC a major influence on global oil prices that were previously determined by the so called \"Seven Sisters” grouping of multinational oil companies.\n\nThe stated mission of the organization is to \"coordinate and unify the petroleum policies of its member countries and ensure the stabilization of oil markets, in order to secure an efficient, economic and regular supply of petroleum to consumers, a steady income to producers, and a fair return on capital for those investing in the petroleum industry.\" The organization is also a significant provider of information about the international oil market. Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, the Republic of the Congo, Saudi Arabia (the de facto leader), United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela. Indonesia is a former member. By continent, two are South American, seven African, and six are Asian (Middle East). Two-thirds of OPEC's oil production and reserves are in its six Middle-Eastern countries that surround the oil-rich Persian Gulf.\n\nThe formation of OPEC marked a turning point toward national sovereignty over natural resources, and OPEC decisions have come to play a prominent role in the global oil market and international relations. The effect can be particularly strong when wars or civil disorders lead to extended interruptions in supply. In the 1970s, restrictions in oil production led to a dramatic rise in oil prices and in the revenue and wealth of OPEC, with long-lasting and far-reaching consequences for the global economy. In the 1980s, OPEC began setting production targets for its member nations; generally, when the targets are reduced, oil prices increase. This has occurred most recently from the organization's 2008 and 2016 decisions to trim oversupply.\n\nEconomists often cite OPEC as a textbook example of a cartel that cooperates to reduce market competition, but one whose consultations are protected by the doctrine of state immunity under international law. In December 2014, \"OPEC and the oil men\" ranked as #3 on Lloyd's list of \"the top 100 most influential people in the shipping industry\". However, the influence of OPEC on international trade is periodically challenged by the expansion of non-OPEC energy sources, and by the recurring temptation for individual OPEC countries to exceed production targets and pursue conflicting self-interests.\n\nAs of June 2018, OPEC has 15 member countries: six in the Middle East (Western Asia), seven in Africa, and two in South America. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), OPEC's combined rate of oil production (including gas condensate) represented 44 percent of the world's total in 2016, and OPEC accounted for 81.5 percent of the world's \"proven\" oil reserves, including 48 percent from just the six Middle Eastern members:.\n\nApproval of a new member country requires agreement by three-quarters of OPEC's existing members(includes founding members also), including all five of the founders. In October 2015, Sudan formally submitted an application to join, but it is not yet a member.\n\nQatar intends to leave on 1 January 2019.\n\nFor countries that export petroleum at relatively low volume, their limited negotiating power as OPEC members would not necessarily justify the burdens imposed by OPEC production quotas and membership costs. Ecuador withdrew from OPEC in December 1992, because it was unwilling to pay the annual US$2 million membership fee and felt that it needed to produce more oil than it was allowed under its OPEC quota at the time, although it rejoined in October 2007. Similar concerns prompted Gabon to suspend membership in January 1995; it rejoined in July 2016. In May 2008, Indonesia announced that it would leave OPEC when its membership expired at the end of that year, having become a net importer of oil and being unable to meet its production quota. It rejoined the organization in January 2016, but announced another \"temporary suspension\" of its membership at year-end when OPEC requested a 5 percent production cut.\n\nSome commentators consider that the United States was a de facto member of OPEC during its formal occupation of Iraq, due to its leadership of the Coalition Provisional Authority in 2003–2004. But this is not borne out by the minutes of OPEC meetings, as no US representative attended in an official capacity.\n\nSince the 1980s, representatives from Egypt, Mexico, Norway, Oman, Russia, and other oil-exporting nations have attended many OPEC meetings as observers. This arrangement serves as an informal mechanism for coordinating policies.\n\nThe OPEC Conference is the supreme authority of the organization, and consists of delegations normally headed by the oil ministers of member countries. The chief executive of the organization is the OPEC Secretary General. The Conference ordinarily meets at the Vienna headquarters, at least twice a year and in additional extraordinary sessions when necessary. It generally operates on the principles of unanimity and \"one member, one vote\", with each country paying an equal membership fee into the annual budget. However, since Saudi Arabia is by far the largest and most-profitable oil exporter in the world, with enough capacity to function as the traditional swing producer to balance the global market, it serves as \"OPEC's de facto leader\".\n\nAt various times, OPEC members have displayed apparent anti-competitive cartel behavior through the organization's agreements about oil production and price levels. In fact, economists often cite OPEC as a textbook example of a cartel that cooperates to reduce market competition, as in this definition from OECD's \"Glossary of Industrial Organisation Economics and Competition Law\":\n\nInternational commodity agreements covering products such as coffee, sugar, tin and more recently oil (OPEC: Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries) are examples of \"international cartels\" which have publicly entailed agreements between different national governments.\n\nOPEC members strongly prefer to describe their organization as a modest force for market stabilization, rather than a powerful anti-competitive cartel. In its defense, the organization was founded as a counterweight against the previous \"Seven Sisters\" cartel of multinational oil companies, and non-OPEC energy suppliers have maintained enough market share for a substantial degree of worldwide competition. Moreover, because of an economic \"prisoner's dilemma\" that encourages each member nation individually to discount its price and exceed its production quota, widespread cheating within OPEC often erodes its ability to influence global oil prices through collective action.\n\nOPEC has not been involved in any disputes related to the competition rules of the World Trade Organization, even though the objectives, actions, and principles of the two organizations diverge considerably. A key US District Court decision held that OPEC consultations are protected as \"governmental\" acts of state by the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, and are therefore beyond the legal reach of US competition law governing \"commercial\" acts. Despite popular sentiment against OPEC, legislative proposals to limit the organization's sovereign immunity, such as the NOPEC Act, have so far been unsuccessful.\n\nOPEC often has difficulty agreeing on policy decisions because its member countries differ widely in their oil export capacities, production costs, reserves, geological features, population, economic development, budgetary situations, and political circumstances. Indeed, over the course of market cycles, oil reserves can themselves become a source of serious conflict, instability and imbalances, in what economists call the \"natural resource curse\". A further complication is that religion-linked conflicts in the Middle East are recurring features of the geopolitical landscape for this oil-rich region. Internationally important conflicts in OPEC's history have included the Six-Day War (1967), Yom Kippur War (1973), a hostage siege directed by Palestinian militants (1975), the Iranian Revolution (1979), Iran–Iraq War (1980–1988), Iraqi occupation of Kuwait (1990–1991), September 11 attacks by mostly Saudi hijackers (2001), American occupation of Iraq (2003–2011), Conflict in the Niger Delta (2004–present), Arab Spring (2010–2012), Libyan Crisis (2011–present), and international Embargo against Iran (2012–2016). Although events such as these can temporarily disrupt oil supplies and elevate prices, the frequent disputes and instabilities tend to limit OPEC's long-term cohesion and effectiveness. Qatar announced it will withdraw from OPEC effective 1st of January 2019.\n\nAs one area in which OPEC members have been able to cooperate productively over the decades, the organization has significantly improved the quality and quantity of information available about the international oil market. This is especially helpful for a natural-resource industry whose smooth functioning requires months and years of careful planning.\n\nIn April 2001, OPEC collaborated with five other international organizations (APEC, Eurostat, IEA, , UNSD) to improve the availability and reliability of oil data. They launched the Joint Oil Data Exercise, which in 2005 was joined by IEF and renamed the Joint Organisations Data Initiative (JODI), covering more than 90 percent of the global oil market. GECF joined as an eighth partner in 2014, enabling JODI also to cover nearly 90 percent of the global market for natural gas.\n\nSince 2007, OPEC has published the \"World Oil Outlook\" (WOO) annually, in which it presents a comprehensive analysis of the global oil industry including medium- and long-term projections for supply and demand. OPEC also produces an \"Annual Statistical Bulletin\" (ASB), and publishes more-frequent updates in its \"Monthly Oil Market Report\" (MOMR) and \"OPEC Bulletin\".\n\nA \"crude oil benchmark\" is a standardized petroleum product that serves as a convenient reference price for buyers and sellers of crude oil, including standardized contracts in major futures markets since 1983. Benchmarks are used because oil prices differ (usually by a few dollars per barrel) based on variety, grade, delivery date and location, and other legal requirements.\n\nThe OPEC Reference Basket of Crudes has been an important benchmark for oil prices since 2000. It is calculated as a weighted average of prices for petroleum blends from the OPEC member countries: Saharan Blend (Algeria), Girassol (Angola), Oriente (Ecuador), Rabi Light (Gabon), Iran Heavy (Islamic Republic of Iran), Basra Light (Iraq), Kuwait Export (Kuwait), Es Sider (Libya), Bonny Light (Nigeria), Qatar Marine (Qatar), Arab Light (Saudi Arabia), Murban (UAE), and Merey (Venezuela).\n\nNorth Sea Brent Crude Oil is the leading benchmark for Atlantic basin crude oils, and is used to price approximately two-thirds of the world's traded crude oil. Other well-known benchmarks are West Texas Intermediate (WTI), Dubai Crude, Oman Crude, and Urals oil.\n\nThe US Energy Information Administration, the statistical arm of the US Department of Energy, defines spare capacity for crude oil market management \"as the volume of production that can be brought on within 30 days and sustained for at least 90 days... OPEC spare capacity provides an indicator of the world oil market's ability to respond to potential crises that reduce oil supplies.\"\n\nIn November 2014, the International Energy Agency (IEA) estimated that OPEC's \"effective\" spare capacity, adjusted for ongoing disruptions in countries like Libya and Nigeria, was and that this number would increase to a peak in 2017 of . By November 2015, the IEA changed its assessment \"with OPEC's spare production buffer stretched thin, as Saudi Arabia – which holds the lion's share of excess capacity – and its [Persian] Gulf neighbours pump at near-record rates.\"\n\nIn 1949, Venezuela and Iran took the earliest steps in the direction of OPEC, by inviting Iraq, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia to improve communication among petroleum-exporting nations as the world recovered from World War II. At the time, some of the world's largest oil fields were just entering production in the Middle East. The United States had established the Interstate Oil Compact Commission to join the Texas Railroad Commission in limiting overproduction. The US was simultaneously the world's largest producer and consumer of oil; and the world market was dominated by a group of multinational companies known as the \"Seven Sisters\", five of which were headquartered in the US following the breakup of John D. Rockefeller's original Standard Oil monopoly. Oil-exporting countries were eventually motivated to form OPEC as a counterweight to this concentration of political and economic power.\n\nIn February 1959, as new supplies were becoming available, the multinational oil companies (MOCs) unilaterally reduced their posted prices for Venezuelan and Middle Eastern crude oil by 10 percent. Weeks later, the Arab League's first Arab Petroleum Congress convened in Cairo, Egypt, where the influential journalist Wanda Jablonski introduced Saudi Arabia's Abdullah Tariki to Venezuela's observer Juan Pablo Pérez Alfonzo, representing the two then-largest oil-producing nations outside the United States and the Soviet Union. Both oil ministers were angered by the price cuts, and the two led their fellow delegates to establish the Maadi Pact or Gentlemen's Agreement, calling for an \"Oil Consultation Commission\" of exporting countries, to which MOCs should present price-change plans. Jablonski reported a marked hostility toward the West and a growing outcry against \"absentee landlordism\" of the MOCs, which at the time controlled all oil operations within the exporting countries and wielded enormous political influence. In August 1960, ignoring the warnings, and with the US favoring Canadian and Mexican oil for strategic reasons, the MOCs again unilaterally announced significant cuts in their posted prices for Middle Eastern crude oil.\n\nThe following month, during 10–14 September 1960, the Baghdad Conference was held at the initiative of Tariki, Pérez Alfonzo, and Iraqi prime minister Abd al-Karim Qasim, whose country had skipped the 1959 congress. Government representatives from Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela met in Baghdad to discuss ways to increase the price of crude oil produced by their countries, and ways to respond to unilateral actions by the MOCs. Despite strong US opposition: \"Together with Arab and non-Arab producers, Saudi Arabia formed the Organization of Petroleum Export Countries (OPEC) to secure the best price available from the major oil corporations.\" The Middle Eastern members originally called for OPEC headquarters to be in Baghdad or Beirut, but Venezuela argued for a neutral location, and so the organization chose Geneva, Switzerland. On 1 September 1965, OPEC moved to Vienna, Austria, after Switzerland declined to extend diplomatic privileges.\n\nDuring 1961–1975, the five founding nations were joined by Qatar (1961), Indonesia (1962–2008, rejoined 2014-2016), Libya (1962), United Arab Emirates (originally just the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, 1967), Algeria (1969), Nigeria (1971), Ecuador (1973–1992, rejoined 2007), and Gabon (1975–1994, rejoined 2016). By the early 1970s, OPEC's membership accounted for more than half of worldwide oil production. Indicating that OPEC is not averse to further expansion, Mohammed Barkindo, OPEC's Acting Secretary General in 2006, urged his African neighbors Angola and Sudan to join, and Angola did in 2007, followed by Equatorial Guinea in 2017. Since the 1980s, representatives from Egypt, Mexico, Norway, Oman, Russia, and other oil-exporting nations have attended many OPEC meetings as observers, as an informal mechanism for coordinating policies.\n\nIn October 1973, the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC, consisting of the Arab majority of OPEC plus Egypt and Syria) declared significant production cuts and an oil embargo against the United States and other industrialized nations that supported Israel in the Yom Kippur War. A previous embargo attempt was largely ineffective in response to the Six-Day War in 1967. However, in 1973, the result was a sharp rise in oil prices and OPEC revenues, from US$3/bbl to US$12/bbl, and an emergency period of energy rationing, intensified by panic reactions, a declining trend in US oil production, currency devaluations, and a lengthy UK coal-miners dispute. For a time, the UK imposed an emergency three-day workweek. Seven European nations banned non-essential Sunday driving. US gas stations limited the amount of gasoline that could be dispensed, closed on Sundays, and restricted the days when gasoline could be purchased, based on license plate numbers. Even after the embargo ended in March 1974 following intense diplomatic activity, prices continued to rise. The world experienced a global economic recession, with unemployment and inflation surging simultaneously, steep declines in stock and bond prices, major shifts in trade balances and petrodollar flows, and a dramatic end to the post-WWII economic boom.\n\nThe 1973–1974 oil embargo had lasting effects on the United States and other industrialized nations, which established the International Energy Agency in response, as well as national emergency stockpiles designed to withstand months of future supply disruptions. Oil conservation efforts included lower speed limits on highways, smaller and more energy-efficient cars and appliances, year-round daylight saving time, reduced usage of heating and air-conditioning, better insulation, increased support of mass transit, and greater emphasis on coal, natural gas, ethanol, nuclear and other alternative energy sources. These long-term efforts became effective enough that US oil consumption would rise only 11 percent during 1980–2014, while real GDP rose 150 percent. But in the 1970s, OPEC nations demonstrated convincingly that their oil could be used as both a political and economic weapon against other nations, at least in the short term.\n\nOPEC's international aid activities date from well before the 1973–1974 oil price surge. For example, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development has operated since 1961.\n\nIn the years after 1973, as an example of so-called \"checkbook diplomacy\", certain Arab nations have been among the world's largest providers of foreign aid, and OPEC added to its goals the selling of oil for the socio-economic growth of poorer nations. The OPEC Special Fund was conceived in Algiers, Algeria, in March 1975, and was formally established the following January. \"A Solemn Declaration 'reaffirmed the natural solidarity which unites OPEC countries with other developing countries in their struggle to overcome underdevelopment,' and called for measures to strengthen cooperation between these countries... [The OPEC Special Fund's] resources are additional to those already made available by OPEC states through a number of bilateral and multilateral channels.\" The Fund became an official international development agency in May 1980 and was renamed the OPEC Fund for International Development (OFID), with Permanent Observer status at the United Nations.\n\nOn 21 December 1975, Saudi Arabia's Ahmed Zaki Yamani, Iran's Jamshid Amuzegar, and the other OPEC oil ministers were taken hostage at their semi-annual conference in Vienna, Austria. The attack, which killed three non-ministers, was orchestrated by a six-person team led by Venezuelan militant \"Carlos the Jackal\", and which included Gabriele Kröcher-Tiedemann and Hans-Joachim Klein. The self-named \"Arm of the Arab Revolution\" group declared its goal to be the liberation of Palestine. Carlos planned to take over the conference by force and hold for ransom all eleven attending oil ministers, except for Yamani and Amuzegar who were to be executed.\n\nCarlos arranged bus and plane travel for his team and 42 of the original 63 hostages, with stops in Algiers and Tripoli, planning to fly eventually to Baghdad, where Yamani and Amuzegar were to be killed. All 30 non-Arab hostages were released in Algiers, excluding Amuzegar. Additional hostages were released at another stop in Tripoli before returning to Algiers. With only 10 hostages remaining, Carlos held a phone conversation with Algerian President Houari Boumédienne, who informed Carlos that the oil ministers' deaths would result in an attack on the plane. Boumédienne must also have offered Carlos asylum at this time and possibly financial compensation for failing to complete his assignment. Carlos expressed his regret at not being able to murder Yamani and Amuzegar, then he and his comrades left the plane. All the hostages and terrorists walked away from the situation, two days after it began.\n\nSome time after the attack, Carlos's accomplices revealed that the operation was commanded by Wadie Haddad, a founder of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. They also claimed that the idea and funding came from an Arab president, widely thought to be Muammar al-Gaddafi of Libya, itself an OPEC member. Fellow militants Bassam Abu Sharif and Klein claimed that Carlos received and kept a ransom between US$20 million and US$50 million from \"an Arab president\". Carlos claimed that Saudi Arabia paid ransom on behalf of Iran, but that the money was \"diverted en route and lost by the Revolution\". He was finally captured in 1994 and is serving life sentences for at least 16 other murders.\n\nIn response to a wave of oil nationalizations and the high prices of the 1970s, industrial nations took steps to reduce their dependence on OPEC oil, especially after prices reached new peaks approaching US$40/bbl in 1979–1980 when the Iranian Revolution and Iran–Iraq War disrupted regional stability and oil supplies. Electric utilities worldwide switched from oil to coal, natural gas, or nuclear power; national governments initiated multibillion-dollar research programs to develop alternatives to oil; and commercial exploration developed major non-OPEC oilfields in Siberia, Alaska, the North Sea, and the Gulf of Mexico. By 1986, daily worldwide demand for oil dropped by 5 million barrels, non-OPEC production rose by an even-larger amount, and OPEC's market share sank from approximately 50 percent in 1979 to less than 30 percent in 1985. Illustrating the volatile multi-year timeframes of typical market cycles for natural resources, the result was a six-year decline in the price of oil, which culminated by plunging more than half in 1986 alone. As one oil analyst summarized succinctly: \"When the price of something as essential as oil spikes, humanity does two things: finds more of it and finds ways to use less of it.\"\n\nTo combat falling revenue from oil sales, in 1982 Saudi Arabia pressed OPEC for audited national production quotas in an attempt to limit output and boost prices. When other OPEC nations failed to comply, Saudi Arabia first slashed its own production from 10 million barrels daily in 1979–1981 to just one-third of that level in 1985. When even this proved ineffective, Saudi Arabia reversed course and flooded the market with cheap oil, causing prices to fall below US$10/bbl and higher-cost producers to become unprofitable. Faced with increasing economic hardship (which ultimately contributed to the collapse of the Soviet bloc in 1989), the \"free-riding\" oil exporters that had previously failed to comply with OPEC agreements finally began to limit production to shore up prices, based on painstakingly negotiated national quotas that sought to balance oil-related and economic criteria since 1986. (Within their sovereign-controlled territories, the national governments of OPEC members are able to impose production limits on both government-owned and private oil companies.) Generally when OPEC production targets are reduced, oil prices increase.\n\nLeading up to his August 1990 Invasion of Kuwait, Iraqi President Saddam Hussein was pushing OPEC to end overproduction and to send oil prices higher, in order to help OPEC members financially and to accelerate rebuilding from the 1980–1988 Iran–Iraq War. But these two Iraqi wars against fellow OPEC founders marked a low point in the cohesion of the organization, and oil prices subsided quickly after the short-term supply disruptions. The September 2001 Al Qaeda attacks on the US and the March 2003 US invasion of Iraq had even milder short-term impacts on oil prices, as Saudi Arabia and other exporters again cooperated to keep the world adequately supplied.\n\nIn the 1990s, OPEC lost its two newest members, who had joined in the mid-1970s. Ecuador withdrew in December 1992, because it was unwilling to pay the annual US$2 million membership fee and felt that it needed to produce more oil than it was allowed under the OPEC quota, although it rejoined in October 2007. Similar concerns prompted Gabon to suspend membership in January 1995; it rejoined in July 2016. Iraq has remained a member of OPEC since the organization's founding, but Iraqi production was not a part of OPEC quota agreements from 1998 to 2016, due to the country's daunting political difficulties.\n\nLower demand triggered by the 1997–1998 Asian financial crisis saw the price of oil fall back to 1986 levels. After oil slumped to around US$10/bbl, joint diplomacy achieved a gradual slowing of oil production by OPEC, Mexico and Norway. After prices slumped again in Nov. 2001, OPEC, Norway, Mexico, Russia, Oman and Angola agreed to cut production on 1 Jan. 2002 for 6 months. OPEC contributed 1.5 million barrels a day (mbpd) to the approximately 2 mbpd of cuts announced.\n\nIn June 2003, the International Energy Agency (IEA) and OPEC held their first joint workshop on energy issues. They have continued to meet regularly since then, \"to collectively better understand trends, analysis and viewpoints and advance market transparency and predictability.\"\n\nWidespread insurgency and sabotage occurred during the 2003–2008 height of the American occupation of Iraq, coinciding with rapidly increasing oil demand from China and commodity-hungry investors, recurring violence against the Nigerian oil industry, and dwindling spare capacity as a cushion against potential shortages. This combination of forces prompted a sharp rise in oil prices to levels far higher than those previously targeted by OPEC. Price volatility reached an extreme in 2008, as WTI crude oil surged to a record US$147/bbl in July and then plunged back to US$32/bbl in December, during the worst global recession since World War II. OPEC's annual oil export revenue also set a new record in 2008, estimated around US$1 trillion, and reached similar annual rates in 2011–2014 (along with extensive petrodollar recycling activity) before plunging again. By the time of the 2011 Libyan Civil War and Arab Spring, OPEC started issuing explicit statements to counter \"excessive speculation\" in oil futures markets, blaming financial speculators for increasing volatility beyond market fundamentals.\n\nIn May 2008, Indonesia announced that it would leave OPEC when its membership expired at the end of that year, having become a net importer of oil and being unable to meet its production quota. A statement released by OPEC on 10 September 2008 confirmed Indonesia's withdrawal, noting that OPEC \"regretfully accepted the wish of Indonesia to suspend its full membership in the organization, and recorded its hope that the country would be in a position to rejoin the organization in the not-too-distant future.\"\n\nThe differing economic needs of OPEC member states often affect the internal debates behind OPEC production quotas. Poorer members have pushed for production cuts from fellow members, to increase the price of oil and thus their own revenues. These proposals conflict with Saudi Arabia's stated long-term strategy of being a partner with the world's economic powers to ensure a steady flow of oil that would support economic expansion. Part of the basis for this policy is the Saudi concern that overly expensive oil or unreliable supply will drive industrial nations to conserve energy and develop alternative fuels, curtailing the worldwide demand for oil and eventually leaving unneeded barrels in the ground. To this point, Saudi Oil Minister Yamani famously remarked in 1973: \"The Stone Age didn't end because we ran out of stones.\"\n\nOn 10 September 2008, with oil prices still near US$100/bbl, a production dispute occurred when the Saudis reportedly walked out of a negotiating session where rival members voted to reduce OPEC output. Although Saudi delegates officially endorsed the new quotas, they stated anonymously that they would not observe them. \"The New York Times\" quoted one such delegate as saying: \"Saudi Arabia will meet the market's demand. We will see what the market requires and we will not leave a customer without oil. The policy has not changed.\" Over the next few months, oil prices plummeted into the $30s, and did not return to $100 until the Libyan Civil War in 2011.\n\nDuring 2014–2015, OPEC members consistently exceeded their production ceiling, and China experienced a slowdown in economic growth. At the same time, US oil production nearly doubled from 2008 levels and approached the world-leading \"swing producer\" volumes of Saudi Arabia and Russia, due to the substantial long-term improvement and spread of shale \"fracking\" technology in response to the years of record oil prices. These developments led in turn to a plunge in US oil import requirements (moving closer to energy independence), a record volume of worldwide oil inventories, and a collapse in oil prices that continued into early 2016.\n\nIn spite of global oversupply, on 27 November 2014 in Vienna, Saudi Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi blocked appeals from poorer OPEC members for production cuts to support prices. Naimi argued that the oil market should be left to rebalance itself competitively at lower price levels, strategically rebuilding OPEC's long-term market share by ending the profitability of high-cost US shale oil production. As he explained in an interview:\n\nIs it reasonable for a highly efficient producer to reduce output, while the producer of poor efficiency continues to produce? That is crooked logic. If I reduce, what happens to my market share? The price will go up and the Russians, the Brazilians, US shale oil producers will take my share... We want to tell the world that high-efficiency producing countries are the ones that deserve market share. That is the operative principle in all capitalist countries... One thing is for sure: Current prices [roughly US$60/bbl] do not support all producers.\n\nA year later, when OPEC met in Vienna on 4 December 2015, the organization had exceeded its production ceiling for 18 consecutive months, US oil production had declined only slightly from its peak, world markets appeared to be oversupplied by at least 2 million barrels per day despite war-torn Libya pumping 1 million barrels below capacity, oil producers were making major adjustments to withstand prices as low as the $40s, Indonesia was rejoining the export organization, Iraqi production had surged after years of disorder, Iranian output was poised to rebound with the lifting of international sanctions, hundreds of world leaders at the Paris Climate Agreement were committing to limit carbon emissions from fossil fuels, and solar technologies were becoming steadily more competitive and prevalent. In light of all these market pressures, OPEC decided to set aside its ineffective production ceiling until the next ministerial conference in June 2016. By 20 January 2016, the OPEC Reference Basket was down to US$22.48/bbl – less than one-fourth of its high from June 2014 ($110.48), less than one-sixth of its record from July 2008 ($140.73), and back below the April 2003 starting point ($23.27) of its historic run-up.\n\nAs 2016 continued, the oil glut was partially trimmed with significant production offline in the US, Canada, Libya, Nigeria and China, and the basket price gradually rose back into the $40s. OPEC regained a modest percentage of market share, saw the cancellation of many competing drilling projects, maintained the status quo at its June conference, and endorsed \"prices at levels that are suitable for both producers and consumers\", although many producers were still experiencing serious economic difficulties.\n\nAs OPEC members grew weary of a multi-year supply contest with diminishing returns and shrinking financial reserves, the organization finally attempted its first production cut since 2008. Despite many political obstacles, a September 2016 decision to trim approximately 1 million barrels per day was codified by a new quota agreement at the November 2016 OPEC conference. The agreement (which exempted disruption-ridden members Libya and Nigeria) covered the first half of 2017 – alongside promised reductions from Russia and ten other non-members, offset by expected increases in the US shale sector, Libya, Nigeria, spare capacity, and surging late-2016 OPEC production before the cuts took effect. Indonesia announced another \"temporary suspension\" of its OPEC membership, rather than accepting the organization's requested 5 percent production cut. Prices fluctuated around US$50/bbl, and OPEC in May 2017 decided to extend the new quotas through March 2018, with the world waiting to see if and how the oil inventory glut might be fully siphoned-off by then. Longtime oil analyst Daniel Yergin \"described the relationship between OPEC and shale as 'mutual coexistence', with both sides learning to live with prices that are lower than they would like.\"\n\nIn December 2017, Russia and OPEC agreed to extend the production cut of 1.8million barrels/day until the end of 2018.\nOn the 3rd of December, Qatar announced their withdrawal from OPEC as of January 2019. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14242021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14242021", "title": "Offline private key protocol", "text": "Offline private key protocol\n\nThe offline private key protocol (OPKP) is a cryptographic protocol to prevent unauthorized access to back up or archive data. The protocol results in a public key that can be used to encrypt data and an offline private key that can later be used to decrypt that data.\n\nThe protocol is based on three rules regarding the key. An offline private key should:\n\nTo comply with these rules, the offline private key protocol uses a method of asymmetric key wrapping.\n\nAs the protocol does not provide rules on the strength of the encryption methods and keys to be used, the security of the protocol depends on the actual cryptographic implementation. When used in combination with strong encryption methods, the protocol can provide extreme security.\n\nInitially:\n\nWhen archiving or creating a backup, for each session or file:\n\nTo restore backed up or archived data:\n"}
{"id": "3936644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3936644", "title": "Organizational ombudsman", "text": "Organizational ombudsman\n\nAn organizational ombudsman is a designated neutral or impartial dispute resolution practitioner whose major function is to provide independent, impartial, confidential and informal assistance to managers and employees, clients and/or other stakeholders of a corporation, university, non-governmental organization, governmental agency or other entity. As an independent and neutral employee, the organizational ombudsman ideally should have no other role or duties. This is in order to maintain independence and neutrality, and to prevent real or perceived conflicts of interest.\n\nUsing an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) sensibility, an organizational ombudsman provides options for people with concerns, including whistleblowers, who seek to bring their concerns forward safely and effectively. Additionally, an organizational ombudsman offers coaching on ethics and other management issues, provides mediation to facilitate conflict resolution, helps enable safe upward feedback, assists those who feel harassed and discriminated against. Overall, the organizational ombudsman helps employees and managers navigate bureaucracy and deal with concerns and complaints.\n\nThe organizational ombudsman role has evolved from at least two sources: a) an evolution from the concept of the 'classical' ombudsman and b) a spontaneous creation and re-inventionof the idea of an internal, neutral conflict resolveroften by senior managers who had never heard of the classical model.\n\nEvolution from the classical model: the classical ombudsman appeared in Sweden in the early 19th century as an independent high-level public official responsible to the parliament or legislature and appointed by constitutional or legislative provisions to monitor the administrative activities of government. This model has been copied and also adapted in many ways in many countries and milieus.\n\nThe spontaneous creation model: the organizational ombudsman role has also been regularly \"re-invented\" by employers who did not know of the classical ombudsman but valued the importance of a senior manager who is a neutral, independent, confidential and informal problem-solver and systems change agent. Examples appeared in the 1920s in the US and probably appeared here and there in many cultures. In many organizations the organizational ombudsman is seen as part of a complaint system or link to a complaint system, but the office is intended to function, and to appear to function, independently from all regular line and staff managementand to report to the CEO or Board of Directors. \n\nThe concept has been widely implemented, and has been spread around the globe, with many corporations, universities, government and non-government entities establishing organizational ombudsman programs.\n\nCurrently, the role is considered by some as a hallmark of an ethical organization and a key component of an integrated dispute resolution system, or complaint system. Sometimes referred to as the ultimate 'inside-outsider', an organizational Ombudsman adheres to professional standards strictly governing their confidentiality and neutrality. By virtue of their protected and highly placed internal role (e.g., reporting to a board of directors rather than to line or staff management), they can be particularly effective at working long-term with management to help effect change in policies, procedures, systems or structures that are problematic for employees or inefficient for the organization.\n\nThe International Ombudsman Institute supports ombudsmen institutions to cooperate.\nThe umbrella professional association for organizational ombudsmen is the International Ombudsman Association, which provides training and establishes standards of practice. Other non-profit think tanks, such as the Institute for Collaborative Engagement, have strongly supported the work and growth of the profession, as has the American Bar Association, through its support of standards and guidelines to establish organizational ombudsman offices.\n\nUniversities appoint ombudsmen to handle student and staff complaints and grievances.\n\nCorporations and businesses contract or hire an ombudsman to enable businesses and organizations to realize their goals. Some practitioners are certified mediators from organizations such as The Center for Dispute Resolution. Other practitioners have received a masters or Ph.D. in programs such as Mediation and Conflict Studies. In this case study involving a home services organization, the organization used an Ombuds Office for monitoring, reporting, conflict resolution and engagement. Team coaching tools were deployed as well. In a case study involving a manufacturing business, the role of the ombudsperson included mediation, coaching individuals within the team, coaching with leadership to discover overall goals, team diagnostic assessments, ongoing team coaching centered on organizational culture, communications, team agreements, etc., and finally, training in conflict awareness.\n\n\nHoward, Charles, \"The Organizational Ombudsman: Origins, Roles and Operations - A Legal Guide\", (Chicago, IL, American Bar Association, Jan. 2010)\n\nRowe, Mary, An Organizational Ombuds Office In a System for Dealing with Conflict and Learning from Conflict, or Conflict Management System in the Harvard Negotiations Law Journal, 2009, at http://www.hnlr.org/?page_id=52.\n\nRowe, Mary, \"Options, Functions, and Skills: What the Organizational Ombudsperson Might Want to Know,\" Negotiation Journal, April 1995, Vol. 11, No. 2, pp. 103–114, also regularly reprinted by the International Ombudsman Association, 1995-\n\nRowe, Mary, \"What is it like to be an Organization Ombudsperson?\" Journal of the IRRA, Perspectives on Work, Vol. 1, no. 2, 1998.\n\nRowe, Mary and Bendersky, Corinne, \"Workplace Justice, Zero Tolerance and Zero Barriers: Getting People to Come Forward in Conflict Management Systems,\"in Negotiations and Change, From the Workplace to Society, Thomas Kochan and Richard Locke (editors), Cornell University Press, 2002\n\n"}
{"id": "12653283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12653283", "title": "Paul Collier", "text": "Paul Collier\n\nSir Paul Collier, (born 23 April 1949) is professor of economics and public policy in the Blavatnik School of Government at the University of Oxford. He is also a director of the International Growth Centre, the director of the Centre for the Study of African Economies, and a fellow of St Antony's College, Oxford.\n\nCollier was born on 23 April 1949. He was brought up in Sheffield where he attended King Edward VII School.\n\nFrom 1998 until 2003 he was the director of the Development Research Group of the World Bank. In 2010 and 2011, he was named by \"Foreign Policy\" magazine on its list of top global thinkers. Collier currently serves on the advisory board of Academics Stand Against Poverty (ASAP).\n\nCollier is a specialist in the political, economic and developmental predicaments of poor countries. He holds a Distinction Award from the University of Oxford, and in 1988 he was awarded the \"Edgar Graham Book Prize\" for the co-written \"Labour and poverty in rural Tanzania: Ujamaa and rural development in the United Republic of Tanzania\".\n\n\"The Bottom Billion: Why the Poorest Countries are Failing and What Can Be Done About It\" (), has been compared to Jeffrey Sachs's \"The End of Poverty\" and William Easterly's \"The White Man's Burden\", two influential books, which like Collier's book, discuss the pros and cons of development aid to developing countries.\n\nHis 2010 book \"The Plundered Planet\" is encapsulated in his formulas:\n\nThe book describes itself as an attempt at a middle way between the extremism of \"Ostriches\" (denialism, particularly climate change denial) and \"Environmental Romanticism\" (for example, anti-genetically modified organisms movements in Europe). The book is about sustainable management in relation with the geo-politics of global warming, with an attempt to avoid a global tragedy of the commons, with the prime example of overfishing. In it he builds upon a legacy of the economic psychology of greed and fear, from early Utilitarianism (Jeremy Bentham) to more recently the Stern Review.\n\nHe is a patron of the Media Legal Defence Initiative.\n\nCurrently he is working on a book called \"State of War\", in which he \"sets out why [he thinks] democracy has gone wrong in the bottom billion and what would be needed to put it on track.\"\n\n\nCollier was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2008 Birthday Honours and knighted in the 2014 New Year Honours for services to promoting research and policy change in Africa.\n\nIn November 2014, Collier was awarded the President's Medal by the British Academy, for \"his pioneering contribution in bringing ideas from research in to policy within the field of African economics.\" In July 2017, Collier was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40059511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40059511", "title": "Plebiscito.eu", "text": "Plebiscito.eu\n\nPlebiscito.eu, originally known as Plebiscite 2013 (, P2013), is a supposedly cross-party nonpartisan committee that campaigns for the independence of Veneto from Italy. Its main leaders have been Lodovico Pizzati, a former secretary of Venetian Independence (IV), one of the most active Venetist-separatist parties so far, and Gianluca Busato, who came to regional prominence in March 2014 as the main organiser of the \"plebiscito\", an online referendum on independence.\n\nThe committee is part of a long-time effort started in November 2012 with the endorsement by the Regional Council of Veneto of resolution 44/2012 on the self-determination of the Venetian people through a referendum. In April 2013 Stefano Valdegamberi, a regional councillor of the Union of the Centre and later of Popular Future, introduced a bill (342/2013) in order to call a referendum on independence by the end of the year. By 7 June the bill was endorsed by more than 15 regional councillors, sufficient to convene a special session of the Council on the issue. Also several municipal councils endorsed the bill.\n\nIn June 2013 Pizzati formed a joint separatist cartel with Valdegamberi of Popular Future (FP), Antonio Guadagnini of Veneto State (VS), Fabrizio Comencini of Liga Veneta Repubblica (LVR), other Venetist groups, associations and individuals. Subsequently, on 7 July, Pizzati launched P2013, which has since been endorsed by politicians from different parties, activists, intellectuals, professionals and entrepreneurs. They notably included Franco Rocchetta, founder and early leader of Liga Veneta (and former federal president of Lega Nord), who returned to active politics after virtually 20 years of absence from the political scene.\n\nThe birth of P2013 caused a rift within IV as some members, led by president Luca Azzano Cantarutti, rejected Pizzati's initiative and formed Let Veneto Decide, which was endorsed by Valdegamberi, VS, LVR, \"Raixe Venete\", Veneto First, Independentist Youth, other Venetist groups and individuals (see article).\n\nIn October P2013 launched Veneto Business, a platform for separatist entrepreneurs, in partnership with Business for Scotland.\n\nIn November P2013 launched \"Plebiscito.eu\", an online referendum to be held in each and every municipality of Veneto on 16 February 2014. The leadership of the initiative was taken by Gianluca Busato, a software entrepreneur and long-time Venetist activist, whose firm powered the digital consultation.\n\nThe vote, with no official recognition, was later postponed and took place from 16 to 21 March 2014.\n\nAccording to \"Plebiscito.eu\"'s staff, 2.36 million Venetians (63.2% of all eligible voters) participated in the online referendum and 89.1% of them (that is to say 56.6% of all eligible voters) voted yes. This was enough for P2013 to proclaim Veneto's independence from Italy in Treviso on the night of 21 March.\n\nIn the poll, ten \"delegates for independence\" were elected too: Gianluca Busato was the preferred candidate with 135,306 votes, followed by Stefano Vescovi (48,320), Selena Veronese (46,947), Silvia Gandin (43,025), Lodovico Pizzati (25,731), Gianfranco Favaro (16,670), Raffaele Serafini (16,627), Manuel Carraro (16,627), Gianluca Panto (16,321) and Paolo Bernardini (16,299). Finally, voters were asked to express their opinion on three \"foreign policy issues\", where Veneto to become independent: adoption of the Euro (supported by 51.4% of voters), accession to European Union membership (supported by 55.7% of voters) and accession to NATO membership (supported by 64.5% of voters); turnout was however much lower for these three questions (24.6%, 22.3% and 19.8%, respectively).\n\nThe reliability of these results was contested by a number of analysts, while some pollsters confirmed Venetians' support of independence (see here).\n\nThe day after the referendum, Busato announced that the separatist process generated by the referendum was to be led by Veneto Yes, which would be transformed \"from committee for yes to independence to a political organisation which will defend the results obtained with the declaration of independence\".\n\nP2013, whose goal was reached, was basically supplanted by \"Plebiscito.eu\", engaged in the \"structuring of the Venetian Republic\", and Veneto Yes.\n\nAccording to \"Plebiscito.eu\", the self-proclaimed \"Venetian Republic\" has two \"legitimate organs\": the \"Delegation of Ten\", comprising the aforementioned elects, and the \"Treasury\". The latter was established with the self-styled \"Decree 2/2014 of the Venetian Republic\", issued by the Delegation of Ten on 22 April, and was initially composed by Cristiano Zanin (treasurer), Stefano Venturato (counselor), Gianfranco Favaro (counselor) and Lodovico Pizzati (consultant).\n\nIn September 2014 \"Plebiscito.eu\" and the \"Venetian Republic\" experienced an internal reshuffle, which brought to the abandonment of leading roles by several founding members of the committee, notably including Pizzati, Zanin, Gianluca Panto, Manuel Carraro and Giovanni Dalla-Valle. The latter, along with Franco Rocchetta and Andrea Arman, distanced from the Venetist organisation over disagreements with the Delegation of Ten.\n\nIn March 2015 \"Plebiscito.eu\" organised an \"election of the Provisional Parliament of the Venetian Republic\". A large majority of the elects were VS members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6039398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6039398", "title": "Programmers Guild", "text": "Programmers Guild\n\nThe Programmers Guild is an American non-profit corporation that advocates against corporate outsourcing, the H1-B visa program and related topics. The Guild was founded in 1998 by John Miano, a New Jersey programmer. The current president is Mr. Kim Berry, a Sacramento tech worker with a degree in Computer Science from CSU Sacramento. , the Programmers Guild had 400 members. The Programmers Guild is incorporated as a 501(c)4 non-profit corporation in New Jersey.\n\nThe stated mission of the Programmers Guild is to advance the interests of technical and professional workers in information technology (IT) fields and to improve the work and the workplaces of technical professionals across the spectrum of IT fields and disciplines.\n\nThe organization stands in opposition to:\n\n\nThe Programmers Guild claims that the use of guest worker programmers depresses wages in the computer industry. The Programmers Guild circulated the notorious Cohen & Grigsby video in which representatives of the firm explained to employers how \"Not to find a qualified and interested U.S. worker.\" This video got picked up by CNN's Lou Dobbs and Glenn Beck among others. Founder, and now attorney, John Miano researches and writes on the usage of the H-1B visa program\n\nThe Guild is a member of the Coalition for the Future American Worker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2944587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2944587", "title": "R. H. Bruce Lockhart", "text": "R. H. Bruce Lockhart\n\nSir Robert Hamilton Bruce Lockhart, KCMG (2 September 1887 – 27 February 1970) was a British diplomat (Moscow, Prague), journalist, author, secret agent and footballer. His 1932 book, \"Memoirs of a British Agent\", became an international best-seller, and brought him to the world's attention. It tells of his failed effort to sabotage the Bolshevik revolution in Moscow in 1918; his co-conspirators were double agents working for the Bolsheviks. In the end the \"Lockhart Plot\", was a cunning `sting' deliberately manufactured and controlled by Soviet master spy Felix Dzerzhinsky with the goal of discrediting the British and French governments.\n\nHe was born in Anstruther, Fife, the son of Robert Bruce Lockhart, the first headmaster of Spier's School, Beith, Ayrshire, Scotland. His mother was Florence Stuart Macgregor, while his other ancestors include Bruces, Hamiltons, Cummings, Wallaces and Douglases. He claimed he could trace a connection back to Boswell of Auchinleck. In \"Memoirs of a British Agent\", he wrote, \"There is no drop of English blood in my veins.\" He attended Fettes College in Edinburgh.\n\nHis family were mostly schoolmasters, but his younger brother Rob McGregor MacDonald Lockhart became an Indian Army general. His brother John Harold Bruce Lockhart was the headmaster of Sedbergh School, while his nephews Rab Bruce Lockhart and Logie Bruce Lockhart went on to become headmasters of Loretto and Gresham's. His great-nephew, Simon Bruce-Lockhart, was headmaster of Glenlyon Norfolk School.\n\nAt age 21, he went out to Malaya to join two uncles who were rubber planters there. According to his own account, he was sent to open up a new rubber estate near Pantai in Negeri Sembilan, in a district where \"there were no other white men\". He then \"caused a minor sensation by carrying off Amai, the beautiful ward of the Dato' Klana, the local Malay prince… my first romance\". However, three years in Malaya, and one with Amai, came to an end when \"…doctors pronounced Malaria, but there were many people who said that I had been poisoned\". One of his uncles and one of his cousins \"bundled my emaciated body into a motor car and… packed me off home via Japan and America\". The Dato' Klana in question was the chief of Sungei Ujong, the most important of the Nine States of Negeri Sembilan, whose palace was at Ampangan.\n\nBruce Lockhart next joined the British Foreign Service and was posted to Moscow as Vice-Consul. At the time of his arrival in Russia, people had heard that a great footballer named Lockhart from Cambridge was arriving, and he was invited to turn out for Morozov a textile factory team that played their games 30 miles east of Moscow – the manager of the cotton mill was from Lancashire, England. Bruce Lockhart played for most of the 1912 season and his team won the Moscow league championship that year. The gold medal he won is in the collection of the National Library of Scotland. The great player however was Robert's brother, John, who had played rugby union for Scotland, and by his own admission Robert barely deserved his place in the team and played simply for the love of the sport.\n\nBruce Lockhart was British Consul-General in Moscow when the first Russian Revolution broke out in early 1917, but left shortly before the Bolshevik Revolution of October that year.\n\nHe soon returned to Russia at the behest of Prime Minister Lloyd George and Lord Milner as the United Kingdom's first envoy to the Bolsheviks (Russia) in January 1918 in an attempt to counteract German influence. Moura Budberg, the widow of a high-ranking Czarist diplomat Count Johann von Benckendorff, became his mistress.\n\nLockhart, on his return, was also working for the Secret Intelligence Service and had been given £648 worth of diamonds to fund the creation of an agent network in Russia.\n\nLater, Bruce Lockhart spoke out for Arthur Ransome, saying he had been a valuable intelligence asset amid the worst chaos of the revolution. As the chaos worsened in Russia and purges took hold among the Bolshevik leaders, Lockhart provided assistance to bring Trotsky's secretary, Evgenia Petrovna Shelepina, to England; she later married Ransome.\n\nIn 1918, Bruce Lockhart and fellow British agent, Sidney Reilly, were dramatically alleged to have plotted to assassinate Bolshevik leader Vladimir Lenin. Lockhart and British officials condemned this as Soviet propaganda. He was accused of plotting against the Bolshevik regime and, for a time during 1918, was confined in the Kremlin as a prisoner and feared being condemned to death. However, he escaped trial in an exchange of \"secret agents\" for the Russian diplomat Maksim Maksimovich Litvinov. He later wrote about his experiences in his 1932 autobiographical book, \"Memoirs of a British Agent\", which became an instant worldwide hit, and was made into the 1934 film, \"British Agent\", by Warner Brothers.\n\nLockhart was tried in absentia before the Supreme Revolutionary Tribunal in a proceeding which opened November 25, 1918. Some 20 defendants faced charges in the trial, most of whom had worked for the Americans or the British in Moscow, in the case levied by procurator Nikolai Krylenko. The case concluded on December 3, 1918, with two defendants sentenced to be shot and various others sentenced to terms of prison or forced labor for terms up to five years. Lockhart and Sidney Reilly were both sentenced to death in absentia, with the sentence to be executed if they were ever found in Soviet Russia again.\n\nLockhart was appointed the commercial secretary of the British legation in Prague in November 1919. Finding the work boring, in 1922 he left the post and moved into finance. He joined a central European Bank which was run by the Bank of England.\n\nIn 1928 Lockhart left the world of finance and moved into journalism, joining Lord Beaverbook's \"Evening Standard\". He served as the editor of the paper's 'Londoner's Diary' and helped organise Beaverbrook's Empire Crusade campaign. During the 1930s Lockhart also began to release a number of books. They were successful enough that writing became his full-time career in 1937.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Lockhart became director-general of the Political Warfare Executive, co-ordinating all British propaganda against the Axis powers. He was also for a time the British liaison officer to the Czechoslovak government-in-exile under President Edvard Beneš. After the war, he resumed his writing career as well as lecturing and broadcasting, and made a weekly BBC Radio broadcast to Czechoslovakia for over ten years. \n\nHe had a son from his first marriage to Jean Bruce Haslewood, whom R. H. Bruce Lockhart married in 1913.\n\nHis son was author Robin Bruce Lockhart, who wrote the 1967 book \"Ace of Spies\" – about his father's friend and fellow agent Sidney Reilly – from which the 1983 miniseries \"Reilly, Ace of Spies\" was produced.\n\nLockhart married Frances Mary Beck in 1948. His posthumous diaries reveal that he struggled most of his life with alcoholism.\n\nSir Robert Hamilton Bruce Lockhart, died on 27 February 1970 at the age of 82, leaving property valued at £2054. His address at death was Brookside, Ditchling, Sussex.\n\nThe 1983 British television series \"Reilly, Ace of Spies\" was based on a book by his son. Bruce Lockhart was portrayed by actor Ian Charleson in the series.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4067742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4067742", "title": "Reichsstatthalter", "text": "Reichsstatthalter\n\nThe Reichsstatthalter (, \"Reich lieutenant\") was a title used in the German Empire and later in Nazi Germany.\n\nThe office of \"Statthalter des Reiches\" (otherwise known as \"Reichsstatthalter\") was instituted in 1879 by the German Empire for the areas of Alsace (\"Elsaß\") and Lorraine (\"Lothringen\") that France had ceded to Germany following the Franco-Prussian War. It was a form of governorship intended to exist while Alsace-Lorraine became a federal state of the Empire. It was abolished when Alsace-Lorraine was, in turn, ceded back to France after Germany lost World War I.\n\nDuring the Third Reich, the Nazis created the office of \"Reichsstatthalter\" (Reich Governor or Reich Deputy) to gain direct control over all states other than Prussia) after winning the general elections of 1933. Their independent state governments and parliaments were successively abolished, and the Reich government took over direct control in a process called \"Gleichschaltung\" (\"coordination\"). Prussia's government had already been taken over by the Reich a year earlier in the \"Preußenschlag\" under Chancellor Franz von Papen.\n\nTwo weeks after the passage of the Enabling Act of 1933, which effectively made Adolf Hitler the dictator of Germany, the Nazi government issued the Second Law for Synchronization of the States with the Reich (\"Zweites Gesetz zur Gleichschaltung der Länder mit dem Reich\") on 7 April 1933. This law deployed one Reich Governor in each state. The Reich Governors were given the task of overseeing the fulfillment of Hitler's political guidelines in the states. Indeed, the law required them to carry out \"the general policy of the Chancellor.\" In practice, they acted as proconsuls with complete authority over the state governments. The deputies' main authorities lay in:\n\nIn Prussia, the largest of the German states, Hitler took direct control by appointing himself as \"Reichstatthalter.\" However, he passed his authority to Hermann Göring, who had been installed as Prussian prime minister without an election. The Prussian provinces were administered by an \"Oberpräsident\", usually the local \"Gauleiter\".\n\nThe Law for the Reconstruction of the Reich (\"\") passed on 30 January 1934; formally de-federalized the Reich for the first time in its history. However, Germany had effectively become a highly centralized state with the passage of the Enabling Act and the posting of the Reich Governors. The states' powers were transferred to the Reich, and their parliaments were abolished. The Reich Governors were made responsible to the Reich Minister of the Interior, Wilhelm Frick. For all intents and purposes, the states were reduced to provinces.\n\nThe Reich Governors Law (\"Reichsstatthaltergesetz\") of 30 January 1935 formally designated the Reich Governors as the representatives of the Reich government, appointed to watch over the execution of the political guidelines issued by the \"Führer und Reichskanzler\" (Hitler). They received the authority to \"inform\" the provincial authorities about the guidelines and the measures to fulfill them. The \"Reichsstatthalter\" were now also empowered to take over all functions of state government, and also appointed the mayors of all towns and cities with populations fewer than 100,000. This had the effect of giving the Reich Interior Ministry near-complete control over local government. The Interior Minister appointed the mayors of all cities with populations greater than 100,000 (though Hitler reserved the right to appoint the mayors of Berlin and Hamburg himself if he deemed it necessary), and as mentioned above the Reich Governors were responsible to him.\n\nAfter the \"Anschluss\" (\"union\") with Germany, Austria's last pre-war \"Kanzler\" became also its first \"Reichsstatthalter\": 15 March 1938 – 30 April 1939 Arthur Seyss-Inquart (b. 1892 – d. 1946; NSDAP; also \"Führer der Österreichischen Landesregierung\"), be it most of his term besides a \"Reichskommissar für die Wiedervereiningung Österreichs mit dem Deutschen Reich\" 'Reich Commissioner for Reunification of Austria with the German Reich' (23 April 1938 – 31 March 1940 Josef Bürckel, b. 1895 – d. 1944, NSDAP); next each constitutive Land (some differences in borders- thus Burgenland was partitioned away) got its own \"Reichsstatthalter\", generally the last Premier.\n\n"}
{"id": "3231871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3231871", "title": "Rooney Prize for Irish Literature", "text": "Rooney Prize for Irish Literature\n\nThe Rooney Prize for Irish Literature was created in 1976 by the Irish American businessman Dan Rooney, owner and chairman of the NFL Pittsburgh Steelers franchise and former US Ambassador to Ireland. The prize is awarded to Irish writers aged under 40 who are published in Irish or English. Although often associated with individual books, it is intended to reward a body of work. Originally worth £750, the current value of the prize is €10,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "3367638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3367638", "title": "Saint James Church massacre", "text": "Saint James Church massacre\n\nThe Saint James Church massacre was a massacre perpetrated on St James Anglican Church in Kenilworth, Cape Town, South Africa, on 25 July 1993 by four members of the Azanian People's Liberation Army (APLA). Eleven members of the congregation were killed and 58 wounded. In 1998 the attackers were granted amnesty for their acts by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission..\n\nThe attack occurred during the Sunday evening service. Sichumiso Nonxuba, Bassie Mkhumbuzi, Gcinikhaya Makoma and Tobela Mlambisa approached the church, a congregation of the Church of England in South Africa, in a vehicle stolen by Mlambisa and Makoma beforehand. Nonxuba, who commanded the unit, and Makoma entered the church armed with M26 hand grenades and R4 assault rifles. They threw the grenades and then opened fire on the congregation, killing 11 and wounding 58. \n\nOne member of the congregation, Charl van Wyk, who wrote a book about the event (\"Shooting Back: the right and duty of self defense\"), returned fire with a .38 special revolver, wounding one of the attackers. At this point they fled the church. Mkhumbuzi had been ordered to throw four petrol bombs into the church following the shooting, but abandoned this intention as all four fled in the vehicle.\n\nMembers of the congregation killed were Guy Cooper Javens, Richard Oliver O'Kill, Gerhard Dennis Harker, Wesley Alfonso Harker, Denise Gordon, Mirtle Joan Smith, Marita Ackermann, Andrey Katyl, Oleg Karamjin, Valentin Varaksa and Pavel Valuet. The last four on this list were Russian seamen attending the service as part of a church outreach programme. Another Russian seaman, Dmitri Makogon, lost both legs and an arm in the attack. The attack was seen as particularly shocking as relatively few terrorist attacks happened in the suburbs and the Cape Town area was regarded as relatively peaceful. The attack was seen as harming prospects for future constitutional negotiation.\n\nAPLA cadres were held responsible for several similar attacks. Among these were the attack on King William's Town Golf Club on 28 November 1992 in which four people were killed, and the attack on the Heidelberg Tavern in Observatory, Cape Town on 31 December 1993, in which four people were killed. Ballistic tests showed that the same rifles were used in the St James and Heidelberg Tavern attacks.\n\nMakoma was arrested ten days later and convicted for 11 murders. He was sentenced to 23 years in prison. Nonxuba, Mlambisa and Mkhumbuzi were subsequently arrested and charged in 1996. They had in the meantime joined the South African National Defence Force as part of the integration of APLA operatives into the new national defence force.\n\nIn 1997, while on trial, Nonxuba, Mlambisa and Mkhumbuzi appealed to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission for amnesty, together with Makoma. They were granted bail pending their appearance before the TRC. Nonxuba died in a car accident while on bail.\n\nMakoma, Mkhumbuzi and Mlambisa were all granted amnesty for the St James Church attack by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC). As a result, Makoma was freed after serving only 5½ years of his sentence, and the trial of Mkhumbuzi and Mlambisa was never completed. In this and other APLA amnesty hearings, APLA operatives claimed that they were following their orders and that they regarded all whites as legitimate targets as they were complicit in the government's policy of apartheid.\n\nIn statements made to the representatives of St James church they added they were unaware the selected target was a church until they arrived in Kenilworth. Dawie Ackerman, husband of one of the victims, noted that perhaps 35–40% of the congregation were people of colour, with the counsel for the APLA saying they had assumed all congregants would be white as the church was in a white area.\n\nLetlapa Mphahlele, national director of operations for APLA, took responsibility for ordering the attacks as part of his application for amnesty. He claimed that he had authorised attacks on white civilians following the killing of five school children by the Transkei Defence Force in Umtata.\n\nAmnesty in such cases was typically granted in terms of the TRC's mandate because the crimes were considered politically motivated, with the perpetrators following the orders of the APLA commanders, and full disclosure was made to the TRC. Although amnesty was granted to the individual perpetrators, the TRC found the act itself, and other APLA/PAC attacks specifically targeting civilians, were \"a gross violation of human rights\" and a \"violation of internal [sic] humanitarian law\".\n\nSeveral of the church members who were injured or who lost family members in the attacks, as well as Charl van Wyk, who had returned fire on the attackers, later met and publicly reconciled with the APLA attackers.\n\nOn 27 August 2002, Gcinikhaya Makoma was arrested along with six others following a cash-in-transit heist of a Standard Bank cash van in Constantia, Cape Town, in which R1.8 million was stolen. He and the others were later acquitted, with the magistrate finding that the prosecution case had been badly put together and that documents had been falsified by an investigating officer. Makoma was eventually convicted on 16 February 2012 of murder and robbery and sentenced to life and 46 years in prison for his role in a December 2007 cash van heist in Parow, Cape Town.\n\nIn October 2004, Charl Van Wyk became a founding member of Gun Owners of South Africa (GOSA), an online civilian gun rights ownership group, which is involved in public demonstrations against the Firearms Control Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12642693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12642693", "title": "Scott Bullock", "text": "Scott Bullock\n\nScott G. Bullock is an American lawyer who focuses on property rights issues such as eminent domain and civil forfeiture. He is President and General Counsel at the Institute for Justice, a nonprofit libertarian public interest law firm. He represented Susette Kelo in \"Kelo v. City of New London\", an eminent domain case decided by the Supreme Court in 2005.\n\nBullock was born in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and grew up outside of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He received his B.A. in economics and philosophy from Grove City College and his law degree from the University of Pittsburgh School of Law. Bullock joined the Institute for Justice at its founding in 1991.\n\nBullock was lead co-counsel in the 2005 Supreme Court case \"Kelo v. City of New London\". After the decision by the high court to allow the City of New London to seize the homes and businesses of current residences to make room for a \"90-acre office, hotel, and housing complex\", Bullock said that it was \"a sad day for the country and a sad day for the Constitution.\"\n\nBullock has advocated against government use of civil forfeiture. He has said that when the police pull drivers over for minor traffic infractions and seize their cash, they do not \"respect fundamental notions of due process.\" He represented Russ Caswell when the police tried to seize Caswell's motel in Tewksbury, Massachusetts after incidents of illegal drug activity on the premises. He called the practice of equitable sharing, in which state and federal law enforcement share the proceeds of seized assets, a violation of federalism. He has been involved in First Amendment and commercial speech cases. He is an advocate for parental rights. He has shared his views on constitutional issues in publications such as \"The New York Times\" and \"The Wall Street Journal\" as well as in broadcast media such as \"60 Minutes\", \"ABC Nightly News\", and National Public Radio.\n\n"}
{"id": "3998068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3998068", "title": "Sturla Þórðarson", "text": "Sturla Þórðarson\n\nSturla Þórðarson (1214–1284) was an Icelandic politician/chieftain and writer of sagas and contemporary history during the 13th century.\n\nSturla was the son of Þórður Sturluson and his mistress Þóra, and grandson of Sturla Þórðarson the elder. He was a nephew and pupil of the famous saga-writer Snorri Sturluson. He fought alongside Þórður kakali Sighvatsson during the Age of the Sturlungs.\n\nHe is best known for writing \"Íslendinga saga\", the longest saga within \"Sturlunga saga,\" and \"Hákonar saga Hákonarsonar,\" the story of Haakon IV of Norway. He also wrote a saga of Haakon's son, Magnus the lawmender (\"Magnúss saga lagabœtis\"), of which only fragments have survived. Some scholars also believe him to have written \"Kristni saga\" and \"Sturlubók\", a transcript of \"Landnáma\". He is moreover listed in \"Skáldatal\" as the court \"skald\" of the Swedish ruler Birgir Jarl.\n\nSturla was appointed law speaker over all of Iceland for a brief period after the dissolution of the Icelandic Commonwealth, and wrote the law book \"Járnsíða.\"\n\nHis brother was Ólafur Þórðarson hvítaskáld.\n\n"}
{"id": "5795798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5795798", "title": "Svantepolk of Viby", "text": "Svantepolk of Viby\n\nSvantepolk Knutsson (died 1310), Lord of Viby in Östergötland, was a Scandinavian magnate.\n\nSvantepolk's father was Canute, Duke of Revalia, a bastard son of king Valdemar II of Denmark with a high-born Swedish lady Helena, daughter of Earl Guttorm. His mother had been a Pomeranian lady whose first name and precise origin is not known to us, but who is indicated to have come from the ducal family of Pomerelia.\nSvantepolk's brother was Eric, Duke of Halland who died in 1304.\n\nSvantepolk settled in Sweden in the mid-13th century. His wife was Benedikte of Ymseborg, daughter of (Earl) Sune Folkesson, a grandson of earl Birger Brosa. Benedikte's mother was Helena Sverkersdotter, the daughter of king Sverker II of Sweden and his first wife Benedikte Ebbesdatter of the Galen family of Denmark. Benedikte's elder sister Catherine of Ymseborg was wife of king Eric XI of Sweden (1216–50), so Svantepolk was the late king's brother-in-law.\n\nSvantepolk became the justiciar of Östergötland and a wealthy and remarkable feudal lord in Sweden. His son Knut presumably died childless.\n\nSvantepolk and Benedikte's daughters married lords of Swedish high nobility and became ancestresses of several Swedish noble families, substantial dowries following. Lord Svantepolk, with royal ancestry and rights to ducal dignity of Halland and Revalia, was a valued ancestor, well-remembered in his noble Swedish descendants' pedigrees and family lore. The name Svante, a shortened version of Svantepolk, was given to many Swedish descendants.\n"}
{"id": "51497828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51497828", "title": "Taco trucks on every corner", "text": "Taco trucks on every corner\n\nThe phrase \"taco trucks on every corner\" was used by Marco Gutierrez, the co-founder of \"Latinos for Trump,\" on September 1, 2016, in comments that received widespread attention during the 2016 United States presidential elections.\n\nDuring an interview with MSNBC, Gutierrez referred to his Mexican heritage, stating that \"My culture is a very dominant culture, and it's imposing and it's causing problems. If you don't do something about it, you're going to have taco trucks on every corner.\" His remarks subsequently met with both sarcasm and criticism, many mocking the statement on social media and sending #TacosOnEveryCorner to the top of Twitter's list of trending topics. Others expressed concern over his remarks, stating that he was using \"coded language that politicians and pundits use to get away with explicitly racist messages — from crime to immigration and terrorism.\" Taco trucks were used as voter registration-information booths in Houston Texas, and a nationwide \"Guac the Vote\" campaign was launched. National Public Radio (NPR) news wrote that taco trucks \"now straddle the worlds of political symbol and internet meme\".\n\nThe phrase originated with Marco Gutierrez, a co-founder of the group \"Latinos for Trump\", during an interview with Joy Reid on MSNBC on September 1, 2016.\n\nThe phrase was used within the context of a warning about the \"dominance\" of Mexican culture, underscoring Gutierrez's stance that immigration should be more closely regulated.\n\nIn an interview with Deutsche Welle on September 8, 2016, Gutierrez explained, \"If you don't regulate the immigration, if you don't structure our communities, we are going to do whatever we want. We are going to take over. That is what I'm trying to say and I think what is happening with my culture is that its imposing [itself] on the American culture – and both cultures are reacting.\"\n\n\n\n\n\nIn a survey of 1,898 American adults conducted on September 3, 2016, market research firm YouGov reported that 58% would be happy \"if there was a taco truck on your corner\".\n\nIn an opinion poll of 744 likely voters conducted in Florida from September 4 to 6, 2016, polling firm Public Policy Polling reported that \"tacos and taco trucks are pretty popular among voters who have opinions on them.\" The firm reported tacos had a +36% net favorability, and taco trucks had a +30% net favorability, with a \"pretty significant party divide on the 'issue' of taco trucks\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58597254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58597254", "title": "Working Women United", "text": "Working Women United\n\nWorking Women United (also known as the Working Women United Institute) is a women's rights organisation based in the United States which was formed in New York City, in 1975, to combat sexual harassment of women in the workplace.\n\nAccording to some researchers, the organization was the first to use the term \"sexual harassment\" in the workplace context. In the beginning of the organization's activism, their definition for sexual harassment was \"the treatment of women workers as sexual objects,\" but the organization did not specify which behaviors constituted such harassment.\n\nThe founding of the group was inspired by the case of Carmita Wood, who quit her job at Cornell University due to sexual harassment and became one of the first women in the US to sue her employer on such grounds.\n\nIn 1975, Carmita Wood quit her position at Cornell University due to harassment from her supervisor, Boyce McDaniel, and the University refused to approve of a transfer. Subsequently, Wood filed for unemployment benefits from the university. Cornell refused to approve the benefits, stating Wood had quit for \"personal reasons.\" Working Women United was active in response to the incident and Wood's subsequent lawsuit. Cornell instructor Lin Farley, a key organiser in Working Women United, used the phrase \"sexual harassment\" at a hearing of the New York City Human Rights Commission, and \"The New York Times\" reported on the hearing and the phrase used, helping to introduce the concept and phrase \"sexual harassment\" into the national lexicon.\n"}
