{"id": "4107530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4107530", "title": "Adolph Coors", "text": "Adolph Coors\n\nAdolph Herman Joseph Coors Sr. (born Adolph Hermann Josef Kuhrs or some variant thereof) (February 4, 1847 – June 5, 1929) was a German American brewer who founded the Adolph Coors Company in Golden, Colorado, in 1873.\n\nAdolph Kohrs was born in Barmen in Rhenish Prussia on February 4, 1847, the son of Joseph Kohrs (c.1820–1862) and Helena Heim (c.1820–1862). He was apprenticed at age thirteen to the book and stationery store of Andrea & Company in nearby Ruhrort from November 1860 until June 1862. His mother died on April 2, 1862. The Kohrs family moved to Dortmund, Westphalia. In July 1862, Adolph was apprenticed for a three-year period at a brewery owned by Henry Wenker in Dortmund. He was charged a fee for his apprenticeship, so he worked as a bookkeeper to pay for it. His father died on November 24, 1862. Orphaned, Adolph completed his apprenticeship and continued to work as a paid employee at the Wenker Brewery until May 1867. He then worked at breweries in Kassel, Berlin, and Uelzen in Germany.\n\nEarly in 1868, he came to the United States as an undocumented stowaway. He sailed from Hamburg to New York City and then moved to Chicago arriving on May 30, 1868. His name was changed from \"Kohrs\" to \"Coors\". He worked in the spring as a laborer, and during the summer he worked as a brewer. In the fall and winter he worked as a fireman, loading coal into the firebox of a steam engine. In the spring and summer of 1869, he worked as an apprentice bricklayer and a stone cutter. He became foreman of John Stenger's brewery on August 11, 1869, in Naperville, Illinois, about 35 miles west of Chicago.\n\nHe resigned from Stenger's brewery on January 22, 1872, and moved to Denver, arriving in April. He worked in Denver as a gardener for a month, and on May 1, 1872, he purchased a partnership in the bottling firm of John Staderman. In the same year, he bought and assumed control of the entire business.\n\nOn November 14, 1873, Coors and the Denver confectioner Jacob Schueler purchased the abandoned Golden City Tannery and converted it to the Golden Brewery. By February 1874, they were producing beer for sale. In 1880, Coors purchased Schueler's interest, and the brewery was renamed Adolph Coors Golden Brewery. When Prohibition began in Colorado in 1916, he converted his brewery to make malted milk. The company also manufactured porcelain and ceramic products made from clay mined in Golden. The Coors Porcelain division has since split off, and is now known as CoorsTek.\n\nOn April 12, 1879, Adolph Coors married Louisa Webber, the daughter of the superintendent of the Denver & Rio Grande Railroad maintenance shops. They were married at the Coors home on the brewery grounds. Adolph and Louisa raised three sons and three daughters to adulthood, with two children dying in infancy. Louise was born on March 2, 1880, and was nicknamed Lulu among her many friends. Their second child was Augusta, born in 1881, and known by her nickname of Gussie. The fifth born and third surviving child was Adolph Coors Jr., on January 12, 1884. Bertha Coors was born on June 24, 1886, and Grover C. Coors was born in 1888. The last addition to the family, Herman Frederick Coors, was born on July 24, 1890, while the family was on vacation in Berlin.\n\nAll of the daughters attended the Wolcott School for Girls in Denver. Louise married Henry F. Kugeler at the Coors Mansion, and Augusta married Herbert E. Collbran there on October 5, 1905. At the time, \"Transcript\" editor George West wrote, \"Miss Coors is a native Golden girl and proud of it. She is pretty and talented, and by her universally pleasant and courteous demeanor has endeared herself to all the people of her native town.\" She and her husband moved to Korea, where his father was the nation's transportation adviser; Herbert Collbran held an important position with the governmental railways. It is possible that the advent of international shipping of Coors beer, which began in Korea in 1908, was directly related to the family's presence there.\n\nAdolph Jr., Grover and Herman all graduated from Cornell University, and returned to Denver to take positions in the family operations. Adolph Jr. was married to Alice May Kistler at the Kistler home, and the family lived in Denver. Grover married Gertrude at the Coors Mansion. Bertha, who became an accomplished equestrienne and safari hunter, married Harold S. Munroe on January 8, 1911, at the Coors Mansion. The couple moved to Mexico where Harold worked in gold mining operations. Herman Coors married Doreathea Clara Morse on May 25, 1916, in Tompkins, New York. {Two Hermans?} Herman Coors married Janet Ferrin and stayed in Golden, and worked in the family's porcelain manufacturing operations. In 1926, he moved to Inglewood, California, where he set up his own porcelain plant, the H.F. Coors China Company.\n\nAdolph Coors is known to have had at least two siblings, a sister and younger brother, William Kuhrs, who was born in Dortmund, Germany in 1849. William followed his brother to America in 1870 and took the same respelling of the family name. He made his way to Chicago where he made a good living as a cabinet maker, and arrived in Golden by the mid-1870s. He took a good position of employment at his brother's brewery, in which employ he remained for the rest of his life. Following further in his brother's footsteps, William married Louisa's sister Mary in 1881, and ten years later moved to Denver where he had charge of the Coors interests in that city. The couple had three daughters, two of whom were Mattie and Helena. William Coors died on December 30, 1923, and is buried at the Golden Cemetery. Upon his death the \"Colorado Transcript\" described him as \"a genial, accommodating man, and had many friends in Golden, Denver and elsewhere.\" His oldest daughter married William J. Gilbert and the second married Charles Nitschke.\n\nOn June 5, 1929, Adolph Coors committed suicide by leaping from a sixth-floor hotel window.\n\n"}
{"id": "93829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93829", "title": "Agricultural biotechnology", "text": "Agricultural biotechnology\n\nAgricultural biotechnology, also known as agritech, is an area of agricultural science involving the use of scientific tools and techniques, including genetic engineering, molecular markers, molecular diagnostics, vaccines, and tissue culture, to modify living organisms: plants, animals, and microorganisms.\nCrop biotechnology is one aspect of agricultural biotechnology which has been greatly developed upon in recent times. Desired trait are exported from a particular species of Crop to an entirely different species. These transgene crops possess desirable characteristics in terms of flavor, color of flowers, growth rate, size of harvested products and resistance to diseases and pests.\n\nFarmers have manipulated plants and animals through selective breeding for tens of thousands of years in order to create desired traits. In the 20th century, a surge in technology resulted in an increase in agricultural biotechnology through the selection of traits like increased yield, pest resistance, drought resistance, and herbicide resistance. The first food product produced through biotechnology was sold in 1990, and by 2003, 7 million farmers were utilizing biotech crops. More than 85% of these farmers were located in developing countries.\n\nTraditional crossbreeding has been used for centuries to improve crop quality and quantity. Crossbreeding mates two sexually compatible species to create a new variety with the desired traits of the parents. For example, the honeycrisp apple exhibits a specific texture and flavor due to the crossbreeding of its parents. In traditional practices, pollen from one plant is placed on the female part of another, which leads to a hybrid that contains genetic information from both parent plants. Plant breeders select the plants with the traits they're looking to pass on and continue to breed those plants. Note that crossbreeding can only be utilized within the same or closely related species.\n\nMutations can occur randomly in the DNA of any organism. In order to create variety within crops, scientists can randomly induce mutations within plants. Mutagenesis uses radioactivity to induce random mutations in the hopes of stumbling upon the desired trait. Scientists can use mutating chemicals such as ethyl methanesulfonate, or radioactivity to create random mutations within the DNA. Atomic gardens are used to mutate crops. A radioactive core is located in the center of a circular garden and raised out of the ground to radiate the surrounding crops, generating mutations within a certain radius. Mutagenesis through radiation was the process used to produce ruby red grapefruits.\n\nPolyploidy can be induced to modify the number of chromosomes in a crop in order to influence its fertility or size. Usually, organisms have two sets of chromosomes, otherwise known as a diploidy. However, either naturally or through the use of chemicals, that number of chromosomes can change, resulting in fertility changes or size modification within the crop. Seedless watermelons are created in this manner; a 4-set chromosome watermelon is crossed with a 2-set chromosome watermelon to create a sterile (seedless) watermelon with three sets of chromosomes.\n\nProtoplast fusion is the joining of cells or cell components to transfer traits between species. For example, the trait of male sterility is transferred from radishes to red cabbages by protoplast fusion. This male sterility helps plant breeders make hybrid crops.\n\nRNA interference (RNAIi) is the process in which a cell's RNA to protein mechanism is turned down or off in order to suppress genes. This method of genetic modification works by interfering with messenger RNA to stop the synthesis of proteins, effectively silencing a gene.\n\nTransgenics involves the insertion of one piece of DNA into another organism's DNA in order to introduce a new gene(s) into the original organism. This addition of genes into an organism's genetic material creates a new variety with desired traits. The DNA must be prepared and packaged in a test tube and then inserted into the new organism. New genetic information can be inserted with biolistics. An example of transgenics is the rainbow papaya, which is modified with a gene that gives it resistance to the papaya ringspot virus.\n\nGenome editing is the use of an enzyme system to modify the DNA directly within the cell. Genome editing was used to develop herbicide resistant canola to help farmers control weeds.\n\nAgricultural biotechnology has been used to improve the nutritional content of a variety of crops in an effort to meet the needs of an increasing population. Genetic engineering can produce crops with a higher concentration of vitamins. For example, golden rice contains three genes that allow plants to produce compounds that are converted to vitamin A in the human body. This nutritionally improved rice is designed to combat the world's leading cause of blindness—vitamin A deficiency. Similarly, the Banana 21 project has worked to improve the nutrition in bananas to combat micronutrient deficiencies in Uganda. By genetically modifying bananas to contain vitamin A and iron, Banana 21 has helped foster a solution to micronutrient deficiencies through the vessel of a staple food and major starch source in Africa. Additionally, crops can be engineered to reduce toxicity or to produce varieties with removed allergens.\n\nOne highly sought after trait is insect resistance. This trait increases a crop's resistance to bugs and allows for a higher yield. These genetically engineered crops can now produce their own Bt (\"Bacillus thuringiensis\"), which contains toxin-producing proteins that are non-harmful to humans. Bt corn and cotton are now commonplace, and cowpeas, sunflower, soybeans, tomatoes, tobacco, walnut, sugar cane, and rice are all being studied in relation to Bt.\n\nWeeds have proven to be an issue for farmers for thousands of years; they compete for soil nutrients, water, and sunlight and prove deadly to crops. Biotechnology has offered a solution in the form of herbicide tolerance. Chemical herbicides are sprayed directly on plants in order to kill weeds and therefore competition, and herbicide resistant crops have to the opportunity to flourish.\n\nOften, crops are afflicted by disease spread through insects (like aphids). Spreading disease among crop plants is incredibly difficult to control and was previously only managed by completely removing the affected crop. The field of agricultural biotechnology offers a solution through genetically engineering virus resistance. Developing GE disease-resistant crops now include cassava, maize, and sweet potato.\n\nAgricultural biotechnology can also provide a solution for plants in extreme temperature conditions. In order to maximize yield and prevent crop death, genes can be engineered that help to regulate cold and heat tolerance. For example, papaya trees have been genetically modified in order to be more tolerant of hot and cold conditions. Other traits include water use efficiency, nitrogen use efficiency and salt tolerance.\n\nQuality traits include increased nutritional or dietary value, improved food processing and storage, or the elimination of toxins and allergens in crop plants.\n\nCurrently, only a small number of genetically modified crops are available for purchase and consumption in the United States. The USDA has approved soybeans, corn, canola, sugar beets, papaya, squash, alfalfa, cotton, apples, and potatoes. GMO apples (arctic apples) are non-browning apples and eliminate the need for anti-browning treatments, reduce food waste, and bring out flavor. The production of Bt cotton has skyrocketed in India, with 10 million hectares planted for the first time in 2011, resulting in a 50% insecticide application reduction. In 2014, Indian and Chinese farmers planted more than 15 million hectares of Bt cotton.\n\nAgricultural biotechnology regulation in the US falls under three main government agencies: The Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The USDA must approve the release of any new GMOs, EPA controls the regulation of insecticide, and the FDA evaluates the safety of a particular crop sent to market. On average, it takes nearly 13 years and $130 million of research and development for a genetically modified organism to come to market. The regulation process takes up to 8 years in the United States. The safety of GMOs has become a topic of debate worldwide, but scientific articles are being conducted to test the safety of consuming GMOs in addition to the FDA's work. In one such article, it was concluded that Bt rice did not adversely affect digestion and did not induce horizontal gene transfer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2166103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2166103", "title": "Alex Seropian", "text": "Alex Seropian\n\nAlexander Seropian (born 1969) is an American video game developer, one of the initial founders and later president of Bungie, the developer of the \"Marathon\", \"Myth\", and \"Halo\" video game series. Seropian became interested in computer programming in college and teamed up with fellow student Jason Jones to publish Jones's game \"\". The two became partners, and Bungie grew to become the best-known Apple Macintosh game developer before being bought by Microsoft in 2001.\n\nIn 2004, Seropian left Bungie and created Wideload Games, with the goal of streamlining game development. Wideload's small core development team worked with outside contractors to produce \"Stubbs the Zombie\" and \"Hail to the Chimp\". Wideload was acquired by Disney in 2009. As part of the deal Seropian became vice president of game development for Disney Interactive Studios. In 2012 he left the position to start Industrial Toys, a company focusing on mobile games.\n\nAlex Seropian attended the University of Chicago, and joined the Phi Delta Theta fraternity, where he met one of his future colleagues Jason Jones. Interested in computer programming, Seropian was pursuing a mathematics degree with a concentration in computer science as the Department of Computer Science did not offer undergraduate degrees at the time. He graduated in 1991 with a Bachelor of Science degree in mathematics. Before graduating, Seropian was living with his father, sleeping on his couch, and debating whether to get a job or create his own video game company. Seropian's father advised him to take a job to get experience, but the next day Seropian decided to found his own company. \"My dad is a master of reverse psychology\", Seropian said.\n\nSeropian's first game was a self-published \"Pong\"-clone called \"Gnop!\" for Apple Macintosh. The game was free, although a few customers paid $15 for the game's source code. In 1991 he founded Bungie and published his first commercial game, \"Operation Desert Storm\". Seropian sold 2,500 copies of the game, assembling the game boxes and mailing them out from his bedroom. Seropian partnered with his Artificial Intelligence classmate Jason Jones to publish Jones's nearly complete \"\"; the game sold around 2,500 copies—it required a then-rare modem for network play—it developed a devoted following. After publishing \"Minotaur\", the two formed a partnership.\n\nFor the next Bungie title, 1993's \"Pathways Into Darkness\", Seropian hired a third team member for graphics work. The game was the first three-dimensional texture-mapped game on the Mac and the first true first-person shooter. By 1994 Bungie had grown to a staff of six and had moved into a rundown Chicago office—a converted former religious school located in front of a crack house. Their next title, \"Marathon\", began development as a sequel to \"Pathways\" but grew larger. On release it won several awards and established Bungie as the top Mac game developer.\n\nFor \"\", Seropian noted that the company had to incorporate new features such as surround sound and cinematics. \"Halo\" went on to sell more than 4 million units by 2004 and founded a media franchise encompassing sequels, books, and music. Seropian left Bungie in 2002 to spend time with his new family, but also due to frustrations with the game development process.\n\nSeropian founded his own studio in 2004 called Wideload Games, intended to be more streamlined than most video game studios. Calling the method of game development \"broken\", Wideload began with a staff of 10, with the plan to outsource the lion's share of development, to stay within budget. Seropian said that the idea came from figuring out that his decade-old assumptions about how to make games did not necessarily apply to the future. Seropian turned to the film industry for cues, saying that it helped to look at an older industry that had been solving the same types of problems for a longer period than video games. The external development model allowed Wideload to focus on the creative aspect of a project and added flexibility in what types of projects the team could take on. Wideload produced two games, 2005's \"Stubbs the Zombie in Rebel Without a Pulse\" and 2008's \"Hail to the Chimp\".\n\nOn September 8, 2009 Disney acquired Wideload. Seropian joined Disney to head its in-house game development team, Disney Interactive Studios. The sale of Wideload was not originally planned: Wideload and Disney began working on a title together, and as conversations turned to a \"broader scope and vision\", the two companies \"discovered [they] had a lot in common,\" Seropian said. Seropian left Disney in February 2012. Seropian also serves as DePaul University's second \"game designer in residence\"; DePaul is the first liberal arts university to offer a bachelor's degree for game design.\n\nIn 2012, Seropian founded a studio named Industrial Toys. The company plans to develop mobile games for core gamers. The first title by Industrial Toys, \"Midnight Star\", was announced to be a sci-fi shooter designed with touch-based mobile platforms in mind\n, and debuted in February 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "34516172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34516172", "title": "Anatol Stati", "text": "Anatol Stati\n\nAnatol Stati (born October 25, 1952) is a businessman from Chişinău. In 2010, he was widely considered to be Moldova’s richest man. Stati is the founder of Ascom Group, President and Chief Executive Officer and has served in this capacity since the founding in 1994. Between 1989 to 1994, Stati served as a Director at Decebal, a local Moldovan consumer goods trading company. \n\nHis son, Gabriel Stati (born September 30, 1976), served as the vicepresident of Ascom Group (1999–2007). On April 9, the Moldovan Prosecutor General's Office asked Ukraine to extradite Gabriel Stati, a Moldovan businessman whom the Moldovan government accused of being involved in the organization and financing of the civil unrest. Stati was in Ukrainian custody along with another suspect, Aurel Marinescu, for their alleged \"involvement in organizing an attempt to overthrow the Moldovan government.\" Aurel Marinescu (born 1970), was the chief bodyguard of Stati's company “Stati Holding”. On April 16, the General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine approved the extradition of Stati and Marinescu. Gabriel Stati was freed on June 18 by Chisinau Appellate Court, but he had to stay in house arrest during 30 days; his lawyer was Vlad Gribincea. But the court decided to keep in prison Aurel Marinescu. Stati and Marinescu were charged with usurping the state power and organizing mass disorders. \n\nHis daughter, Nicoleta Stati (born June 15, 1981), has served as director of High School of Fine Arts \"Igor Vieru\" in Chişinău, since 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5532652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5532652", "title": "BrandZ", "text": "BrandZ\n\nBrandZ is a brand equity database managed by the marketing firm Millward Brown. It holds data from over 650,000 consumers and professionals across 31 countries, comparing over 23,000 brands. The database is used to estimate brand valuations, and each year since 2006, has been used to generate a list of the top 100 global brands.\n\nThe credibility of the Interbrand and BrandZ league tables have been cast into doubt by an article written in Marketing Week by Mark Ritson. The lack of clear definitions and valuation dates in the both companies methodology raise questions about the subjectivity involved in brand valuations. Being part of multinational advertising groups, Interbrand and Kantar Millward Brown also suffer from the risk of objectivity. Transparency and objectivity are two of the requirements of the ISO 10668 standard of monetary brand valuations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33070180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33070180", "title": "Bundesverband Junger Unternehmer", "text": "Bundesverband Junger Unternehmer\n\nDie Jungen Unternehmer (BJU) is the German Federal Association of Young Entrepreneurs, created in 1950 for the protection and promotion of the interests for young family businesses and owner entrepreneurs up to 40 years of age.\n\nMembers of the BJU must be owners or partners of an officially registered enterprise in Germany employing at least 10 persons, or having an annual turnover of at least one million Euros.\n\nIt is currently lobbying against the German government policy relating to the Euro by what it calls a widespread protest against umbrella protection policies. The BJU was founded in 1950 and had 1500 members in 2014. The chairman of the association is Hubertus Porschen.\n\n"}
{"id": "31780198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31780198", "title": "Caddy Awards", "text": "Caddy Awards\n\nThe Caddy Awards were awards handed out between 1989 and 2006 by the now-defunct Detroit Creative Directors Council, for notable advertising created in the Detroit area. The D Awards replaced the Caddy Awards in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "2530484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2530484", "title": "Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy", "text": "Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy\n\nThe Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA) is a professional institute for accountants working in the public services, national audit agencies, in major accountancy firms, and in other bodies where public money needs to be managed. It has 14,000 members. It is the only UK professional accountancy body to specialise in public services. Its qualifications include a professional qualification for public sector accountants as well as a postgraduate diploma for people already working in management.\n\nCIPFA is a member of the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies, the umbrella organisation for the British accountancy profession. It also belongs to the International Federation of Accountants.\n\nCIPFA’s regional branches cover the Channel Islands, Europe, Midlands, North East, North West & North Wales, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, Scotland, South East, South West & South Wales and Yorkshire & the Humber.\n\nMembers of CIPFA are entitled to style themselves \"Chartered Public Finance Accountant\" and use the designatory letters \"CPFA\". Members who have been elected as Fellow Members can call themselves \"Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy\" and use the abbreviation \"FCPFA\".\n\nCIPFA began life as the Corporate Treasurers' and Accountants' Institute in 1885, which was later renamed the Institute of Municipal Treasurers and Accountants (IMTA) in 1901. This later became the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA) in 1973 when it obtained its Royal Charter.\n\nCIPFA offers a range of qualifications; the \"Professional Qualification\" is intended for those working in and with public services in the UK. For people outside of the UK there are some International Public Financial Management qualifications; a \"Certificate in Charity Finance & Accountancy\"; and a \"CIPFA Certificate Investigative Practice Qualification\" aimed primarily at investigators who have some experience but who lack any formal qualification.\n\nCIPFA students who have successfully completed the CIPFA Professional Accountancy Qualification and their Practical Experience Portfolio (PEP) are invited to apply for CIPFA Membership. Once membership is approved members can use the designatory letters ‘CPFA’ (Chartered Public Finance Accountant) for as long as they continue membership.\n\nFurther routes to membership are available, for example for those with some accountancy qualifications but who must top-up with CIPFA qualifications. There are also arrangements in place with various other professional accountancy organisations where membership, by examination, of these bodies and an appropriate number of years experience in public finance will be regarded as suitable to progress to membership of CIPFA.\n\nCIPFA and the Society of Management Accountants of Canada signed a mutual recognition agreement in February 2004.\n\nCIPFA and CMA Canada have a dual qualification which provides Canadian public sector employees with comprehensive financial management and leadership training.\n\nOn completing the programme, candidates can apply for dual public finance management and accounting designations as a Chartered Public Finance Accountant (CPFA) and Certified Management Accountant (CMA) from CIPFA and CMA Canada respectively.\n\nCIPFA and CPA Australia signed a mutual recognition agreement in June 2007.\n\nAlthough not strictly a form of mutual recognition, CIPFA members of 5 years standing may apply for direct entry to the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales subject to meeting certain criteria.\n\nThe CIPFA Group includes, in addition to the main accounting body; Public Finance - a monthly magazine for the public sector; the in-house CIPFA Education and Training Centre with almost 3,000 students at locations across the UK, and works with other places of learning to provide courses locally; and a commercial services arm which provided advice and services for the public sector. They include information and guidance, courses and conferences, property and asset management solutions, consultancy and interim people for a range of public sector clients.\n\n"}
{"id": "8317987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8317987", "title": "Chromatography in blood processing", "text": "Chromatography in blood processing\n\nChromatographic techniques have been used in blood processing and purification since the 1980s. It has emerged as an effective method of purifying blood components for therapeutic use.\n\nBlood plasma is the liquid component of blood, which contains dissolved proteins, nutrients, ions, and other soluble components. In whole blood, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets are suspended within the plasma. The goal of plasma purification and processing is to extract specific materials that are present in blood, and use them for restoration and repair. There are several components that make up blood plasma, one of which is the protein albumin. Albumin is a highly water-soluble protein with considerable structural stability. It serves as a transportation device for materials such as hormones, enzymes, fatty acids, metal ions, and medicinal products. It is also used for therapeutic purposes, being essential in restoration and maintenance of circulating blood volume in imperative situations such as severe trauma or surgery. With little room for error, extremely pure samples that are lacking impurities needs to be at hand in good amount. Human blood plasma is important for the body so the nutrients etc. can be stored.\n\nTraditionally, the Cohn process incorporating cold ethanol fratiocination has been used for albumin purification. However, chromatographic methods for separation started being adopted in the early 1980s. Developments were ongoing in the time period between when Cohn fractionation started being used, in 1946, and when chromatography started being used, in 1983. In 1962, the Kistler & Nistchmann process was created which was a spinoff of the Cohn process. Chromatographic processes began to take shape in 1983. In the 1990s, the Zenalb and the CSL Albumex processes were created which incorporated chromatography with a few variations.\n\nThe general approach to using chromatography for plasma fractionation for albumin is: recovery of supernatant I, delipidation, anion exchange chromatography, cation exchange chromatography, and gel filtration chromatography.\n\nThe recovered purified material is formulated with combinations of sodium octanoate and sodium N-acetyl tryptophanate and then subjected to viral inactivation procedures, including pasteurisation at 60 °C.\n\nThis is a more efficient alternative than the Cohn process for four main reasons: 1) smooth automation and a relatively inexpensive plant was needed, 2) easier to sterilize equipment and maintain a good manufacturing environment, 3) chromatographic processes are less damaging to the albumin protein, and 4) a more successful albumin end result can be achieved.\n\nCompared with the Cohn process, the albumin purity went up from about 95% to 98% using chromatography, and the yield increased from about 65% to 85%. Small percentage increases make a difference in regard to sensitive measurements like purity. There is one big drawback in using chromatography, which has to do with the economics of the process. Although the method was efficient from the processing aspect, acquiring the necessary equipment is a big task. Large machinery is necessary, and for a long time the lack of equipment availability was not conducive to its widespread use. The components are more readily available now but it is still a work in progress and will possibly be ready in the future to help the world.\n\nIntegrating traditional and modern methods is a useful way to process albumin.\n\nThere are three main steps that combine Cohn fractionation with chromatography: 1) factors I, II, and III are removed via cold ethanol fractionation, 2) Sepharose fast flow ion exchange and sepharose fast flow chromatography procedures are run, and 3) gel filtration is run. The result is albumin with 9% lower aluminum levels with a processing time that is almost twice as fast. \nAlthough it was hard to make chromatographic processing methods widely adopted, global expansion is a work in progress. Various blood components must be readily available at various medical treatment centers around the world. The Institute of Transfusion Medicine in Skopje, Macedonia is a plasma fractionation center in the Balkans. Their modernized albumin purification process consists of five steps:\n\nThe end result is a highly pure and safe batch of albumin that is 100% non-pyrogenic, sterile, and free of active HIV virus. The product purity is greater than 98% and the protein content is about 50 g/L.\n\nOther plasma processing methods exist, but generally do not provide the resolution or purity of chromatographic methods. \nTwo-phase liquid extraction may be performed using polyethylene glycol (PEG)-phosphate Aqueous two-phase systems, with a PEG-rich top layer and a phosphate-rich bottom layer. Although this method is somewhat useful for protein recovery, it does not work as well for the recovery of other blood components. \nMembrane fractionation has the advantage of minimal protein loss yet high removal of pathological plasma components. This method incorporates processes such as thermofiltration and applying pulsate flow. The latest two-stage membrane system utilizes a high flow recirculation circuit that is effective for removal of LDL cholesterol. It may prove useful for patients that have clogged arteries and other cardiovascular problems involving cholesterol. \nBatch adsorption, e.g. onto ion exchange media, is only useful when dealing with smaller samples of plasma, typically 200 mL or less. Batch adsorption recovers the product in a larger volume of elution buffer than does column chromatography or frontal chromatography, and the resulting more dilute product requires concentration, typically on a membrane system, which can lead to loss of product by irreversible adsorption to the membrane.\n\n"}
{"id": "5938019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5938019", "title": "Complexity theory and organizations", "text": "Complexity theory and organizations\n\nComplexity theory and organizations, also called complexity strategy or complex adaptive organizations, is the use of the study of complexity systems in the field of strategic management and organizational studies.\n\nComplexity theory is an interdisciplinary theory that grew out of systems theory in the 1960s. It draws from research in the natural sciences that examines uncertainty and non-linearity. Complexity theory emphasizes interactions and the accompanying feedback loops that constantly change systems. While it proposes that systems are unpredictable, they are also constrained by order-generating rules.\n\nComplexity theory has been used in the fields of strategic management and organizational studies. Application areas include understanding how organizations or firms adapt to their environments and how they cope with conditions of uncertainty. Organisations have complex structures in that they are dynamic networks of interactions, and their relationships are not aggregations of the individual static entities. They are adaptive; in that the individual and collective behavior mutate and self-organize corresponding to a change-initiating micro-event or collection of events.\n\nOrganizations can be treated as complex adaptive systems (CAS) as they exhibit fundamental CAS principles like self-organization, complexity, emergence, interdependence, space of possibilities, co-evolution, chaos, and self-similarity.\n\nCAS are contrasted with ordered and chaotic systems by the relationship that exists between the system and the agents which act within it. In an ordered system the level of constraint means that all agent behaviour is limited to the rules of the system. In a chaotic system the agents are unconstrained and susceptible to statistical and other analysis. In a CAS, the system and the agents co-evolve; the system lightly constrains agent behaviour, but the agents modify the system by their interaction with it. This self-organizing nature is an important characteristic of CAS; and its ability to learn to adapt, differentiate it from other self organizing systems.\n\nCAS approaches to strategy seek to understand the nature of system constraints and agent interaction and generally takes an evolutionary or naturalistic approach to strategy. Some research integrates computer simulation and organizational studies.\n\nComplexity theory also relates to knowledge management (KM) and organizational learning (OL). \"Complex systems are, by any other definition, learning organizations.\" Complexity Theory, KM, and OL are all complimentary and co-dependent. “KM and OL each lack a theory of how cognition happens in human social systems – complexity theory offers this missing piece”.\n\nComplexity theory is also being used to better understand new ways of doing project management, as traditional models have been found lacking to current challenges. This approaches advocates forming a \"culture of trust\" that \"welcomes outsiders, embraces new ideas, and promotes cooperation.\"\n\nComplexity Theory implies approaches that focus on flatter, more flexible organizations, rather than top-down, command-and-control styles of management.\n\nA typical example for an organization behaving as CAS, is Wikipedia – collaborated and managed by a loosely organized management structure, composed of a complex mix of human–computer interactions. By managing behavior, and not only mere content, Wikipedia uses simple rules to produce a complex, evolving knowledge base which has largely replaced older sources in popular use.\n\nOther examples include the complex global macroeconomic network within a country or group of countries; stock market and complex web of cross-border holding companies; manufacturing businesses; and any human social group-based endeavour in a particular ideology and social system such as political parties, communities, geopolitical organisations, and terrorist networks of both hierarchical and leaderless nature. This new macro level state may create difficulty for an observer in explaining and describing the collective behaviour in terms of its constituent parts; as a result of the complex dynamic networks of interactions, outlined earlier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4801279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4801279", "title": "Demoulas family", "text": "Demoulas family\n\nThe Demoulas family is a Greek-American family that controls DeMoulas Super Markets, Inc., the company that operates the Market Basket chain of supermarkets. Beginning in 1990, two sides of the Demoulas family fought for control of DeMoulas Super Markets. The dispute ended in 2014, when the family of George Demoulas sold their shares to Arthur T. Demoulas after protests by employees and customers.\n\nAthanasios \"Arthur\" Demoulas was born in 1883. He was orphaned during the Greco-Turkish War of 1897. On March 17, 1906, he arrived at Ellis Island. He settled in the Acre neighborhood of Lowell, Massachusetts. In 1914 he married Efrosene Soulis (born 1892), a girl he knew from his native village of Kalabaka. In 1917 they left their factory jobs and opened DeMoulas Market. By 1921, they had enough money to purchase a home in Dracut, Massachusetts with a slaughterhouse out back. They hoped their store would become known for its fresh lamb. During the Great Depression, Demoulas would give families who were struggling financially a free piece of bread with ham or allow them to purchase groceries on credit.\n\nThe Demoulases had six children; John (1915–2000), George (1919–1971), an unnamed baby girl (1919–1919), Telemachus \"Mike\" (1920–2003), Ann (1922–), and Evangelos (1925–1930). In 1954, Athanasios and Efrosine Demoulas sold the market to Mike and George for $15,000.\n\nArthur Demoulas died in 1958. Efrosene died in 1964.\n\nJohn Demoulas was born on March 22, 1915. During his youth, he worked in his family's market. As an adult he ran a chain of liquor stores, a bar in Lowell (the Golden Nugget), and Marion's Cafe, also in Lowell. John Demoulas died on March 8, 2000. Demoulas had four children (John, Arthur, Pamela, and Kathleen) with his wife Marion and five illegitimate children with his mistress Dorothy Bedard (Melveen, Mike, Dorothy, George, and Patricia). In 1999, one of his illegitimate sons had his name legally changed from George Bedard to George DeMoulas.\n\nGeorge A. Demoulas was born in 1919 in Dracut, Massachusetts. He graduated from the Hellenic American Academy and Dracut High School. He served in the United States Army during World War II and was stationed at Guadalcanal. After the war, Demoulas joined the family business. In 1953, he married Evanthea Koukias. After he and his brother Mike purchased their parents' market, Demoulas served as executive vice president and treasurer of DeMoulas Super Markets, Inc. Demoulas, who was described as affable and gregarious, dealt with outside parties, including vendors. He brought in many friends from the Greek community, including many people from the Acre, to do accounting, banking, and buying for the company. Within 15 years, the two brothers had transformed their parents' \"mom and pop\"-style store into a modern supermarket chain consisting of 15 stores.\n\nDemoulas was a member of the Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Church served as its president. He received the title of Archon Depoutatos from Patriarch Athenagoras I of Constantinople, the highest honor that can be bestowed upon a layman by the Ecumenical Patriarchate.\n\nOutside of DeMoulas Super Markets, Demoulas was a trustee of the Lowell Technological Institute, Hellenic College Holy Cross Greek Orthodox School of Theology, and St. John's Hospital in Lowell.\n\nDemoulas died of a heart attack on June 27, 1971, while vacationing with his family in Athens, Greece.\n\nGeorge and Evanthea Demoulas had five children; Fotene (1954–), Angelo \"Evan\" (1955–1993), Diana (1956–), and Arthur S. (1958–). Evanthea Demoulas died on February 8, 2008 in Westwood, Massachusetts.\n\nAngelo \"Evan\" George Demoulas was born on April 17, 1955. He graduated from Dracut High School and attended Bridgton Academy and Bentley College. At Dracut High, Demoulas was a standout running back on the school's football team.\n\nDemoulas attended meat cutting school and was given a job in DeMoulas' meat department. He was also appointed to the company's Board of Directors. He eventually left the supermarket business to become a racecar driver. In 1988 he raced for Pacific Racing in British Formula 3.\n\nOn June 13, 1993, Demoulas was in Quebec to watch the Canadian Grand Prix. After the race, he and his friend and former Pacific teammate JJ Lehto were driving from the Circuit Île Notre-Dame to downtown Montreal when Demoulas' car was hit by a driver who had run a red light. Lehto survived, but Demoulas died at the scene.\n\nHe was survived by his wife, Rafaele Evans Demoulas, who was pregnant with their daughter at the time.\n\nArthur Stephen Demoulas was born in 1958. During his youth, he worked for the family business. He attended the University of Maine, where he was a defenseman for the Maine Black Bears hockey team. He later transferred to Babson College, where he graduated in 1984. He continued to work for DeMoulas Super Markets while in college and eventually rose to the position of assistant produce director. He left the company in 1990, as litigation between him and company president Mike Demoulas led a judge to rule that it would be best for Arthur S. to be put on paid leave. Following his family's legal victory over Mike Demoulas, Arthur S. was given a seat on the Board of Directors, but never returned to the chain's daily operations.\n\nOutside of Market Basket, Demoulas is a member of the board of the Boston Police Foundation.\n\nTelemachus \"Mike\" Demoulas was born in 1920. During his youth he was the child most involved with his parent's business. In 1938, Demoulas either dropped out or was expelled from high school and went to work for DeMoulas Market full-time. In 1954, he and his brother George purchased the business from their parents. Demoulas ran the day-to-day operations of the business and found locations for new stores. Within 15 years, the two brothers had transformed their parents' \"mom and pop\"-style store into a modern supermarket chain consisting of 15 stores. After his brother George's death in 1971 he expanded the Demoulas chain. He also began opening stores under different names, including Market Basket. By 1998, there were 57 Demoulas and Market Basket stores. He remained President of DeMoulas Super Markets, Inc. until 1999, when he resigned as result of a court order.\n\nOutside of Market Basket, Demoulas was known for his philanthropy. He gave millions of dollars to many causes, including programs for the blind and college scholarships. He was credited with helping revitalize the Acre by building a new supermarket in providing money for new infrastructure.\n\nDemoulas died on May 24, 2003 at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.\n\nIn 1948, Demoulas married Irene Psoinos. Mike and Irene Demoulas had four children; Frances (1950–), Glorianne (1952–), Arthur T. (1955–), and Caren (1959–). Glorianne is the mother of National Hockey League forward Bobby Farnham.\n\nArthur Telemachus Demoulas was born in 1955. He spent his youth working in the family business. He lived in Lowell until his adolescence, when his family moved to Andover, Massachusetts. He attended Andover High School (where he played running back on the school's football team) and Bentley College. In 1974, one year after he graduated from high school, he joined DeMoulas Super Markets Board of Directors. He eventually worked his way up to the position of Vice President. In 1989, after the DeMoulas Super Markets Board of Directors rejected his proposal to start a pharmacy division, Demoulas founded Lee Drug. In 1990, he sold the chain of nine stores to Walgreens. In 1999 he resigned as Vice President as result of a court order, but remained on the Board of Directors.\n\nBy 2002, Rafaele Evans, the widow of Evan Demoulas, was voting with Arthur T. Demoulas due to her displeasure with her brother-in-law, Arthur S. Demoulas, after he attempted to gain control of the trust that controlled her daughter's shares. This gave Demoulas a majority vote on the Board of Directors.\n\nIn 2008, Demoulas was named President and CEO of DeMoulas Super Markets, Inc. During his tenure as CEO, sales grew from $3 billion a year to $4 billion, the number of employees grew from 14,000 to 25,000. During the same time, competitors Stop & Shop and Shaw's closed many of their stores due to financial troubles. Market Basket also faced new competition from discount-grocer Wegmans Arthur T. was known for his ability to remember his employees names, birthdays, and milestones, attending many of their weddings and funerals, checking in on ill workers, and asking about the spouses and children of his employees. He was seen as a father figure by a number of his employees and compared to \"It's a Wonderful Life\" protagonist George Bailey for his willingness to put people over profit. However, Demoulas' opponents criticized him for being \"openly defiant\" of the board of directors and having a \"dictatorial\" management style. He was fired by the Board of Directors in June 2014, but returned to the company in August after months of protests by Market Basket employees and customers led the family of George Demoulas to sell their shares to Arthur T.\n\nDemoulas resides in Lowell. He and his wife Maureen have three daughters; Madeline, Irene, Mary and; one son Telemachus Arthur \n\nIn October 1989, Evan Demoulas was notified that the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was seeking back taxes on $1 million worth of stock he had sold three years earlier. Demoulas was confused by the call, as he had never sold any stock. He investigated and found that his uncle, Mike Demoulas, had purchased much of his and his family's shares in Demoulas Super Markets without their knowledge.\n\nIn 1990, the widow and children of George Demoulas sued Mike Demoulas, alleging that they had been defrauded out of their shares in the company. They claimed they had trusted Mike to take care of the family after George's death and that he exploited this trust in order to have them sell all of George's real estate and 84% of his shares in DeMoulas Super Markets to members of his own family pennies on the dollar. Mike Demoulas contended that his brother's heirs had willingly sold their shares in the company because they wanted money and their stock in DeMoulas did not pay dividends. According to Mike Demoulas, Evanthea, asked him to sell her shares so she could have money to raise her children, Evan sold his shares so he could begin his auto racing career, and Diana and Fotene sold their shares after the saw how much money their brother received. However, once the company began paying dividends in 1988, the family saw how much money they could have made if they had kept their shares and sought to \"rewrite history\" in order to regain what they had sold. George's children acknowledged that they had signed many of the documents authorizing the sales and transfers, but stated they were not aware of what they were signing because they were too young to understand and trusted their uncle to take care of them. A jury found in favor of George's family.\n\nA few weeks after the decision, George's son Arthur S. Demoulas filed a second suit, this time alleging that Mike Demoulas had diverted assets from the jointly-owned family company, Demoulas Super Markets, to ones controlled by him and his children, including Market Basket. After an eighty-four-day bench trial, judge Maria Lopez found in favor of the plaintiffs. Lopez awarded George's family about $206 million for dividends on stock that had been improperly diverted and 50.5% of the company. She also ordered that all of the assets of Market Basket and the other companies controlled by Mike Demoulas and his family be transferred to Demoulas Super Markets and that Mike Demoulas be removed as president of the company.\n\nIn early September 1990, six bugs were found at the headquarters of DeMoulas Super Markets. It was alleged that Arthur S. Demoulas had planted the bugs in order to listen to the legal strategy of the other side of the Demoulas family. Michael Kettenbach, the son-in law of Mike Demoulas, sued Arthur S. Demoulas, claiming that Demoulas had \"invaded his privacy rights by having listening devices planted at DSM headquarters.\" In 1994, a jury found in favor of Arthur S. Demoulas. However, a new trial was granted after a woman came forward with new evidence – a recording of her boyfriend admitting to bugging the office for Arthur S. Demoulas. The case was damaged though when the woman admitted to being a crack cocaine addict who received about $500,000 in housing and other expenses from the family of Telemachus Demoulas and the man on the tape testified that he had been lying during the recorded conversation. On August 4, 1997, Arthur S. Demoulas was again cleared of wiretapping charges by a federal jury.\n\nIn 1991, George Demoulas' family sued Mike Demoulas, Arthur T. Demoulas, and DeMoulas Super Markets, Inc. chief financial officer D. Harold Sullivan, alleging that the three violated the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 by using their positions as the trustees of the company's employee profit-sharing plan to make fiscally irresponsible real estate loans to friends and business associates. The United States Department of Labor filed a similar complaint six months later. On May 31, 1994 the Department of Labor announced that they had reached a settlement in which the trustees agreed to sell $22 million of the loans by July 11 or purchase them themselves as well as pay the plan $750,000 to make up for the dropped interest rates on the loans (unless the loan recipients paid the money instead). The trustees also agreed not to make any similar investments. The trustees admitted no wrongdoing in the case. Despite the heavy investment in risky real estate loans, the plan never posted a loss. In the civil case, Judge Rya W. Zobel ruled that the trustees' actions were \"wrong but not corrupt\" and that the settlement with the Department of Labor was \"an adequate remedy\". Therefore, she denied the request to have them removed.\n\nIn 1997, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court upheld a lower court's ruling that Arthur T. Demoulas had presented the DeMoulas Super Markets Board of Directors with “misleading, inaccurate, and materially incomplete” information in order to receive a rejection and keep his cousins from receiving any of the profits from Lee Drug, a pharmacy chain he started after the board rejected his proposal to start a pharmacy division of Market Basket.\nIn a 2010 memo to the Board of Directors, Arthur S. Demoulas accused Arthur T. Demoulas of \"plundering\" millions by paying millions in excessive real estate prices for new Market Basket store locations. One example cited in the memo alleged that Arthur T. had recommended that the company pay $20.9 million to purchase a property in Bourne, Massachusetts owned by an entity in which he was a major investor. After the sale, Arthur S. had the property appraised by a Boston real estate executive, who valued the property at $9 million. He also accused Arthur T. of paying \"grossly excessive fees\" to Retail Development and Management Inc., a real estate firmed owned by his brothers-in-law Michael Kettenbach and Joseph Pasquale that oversaw Market Basket's real estate and helped it develop new stores. He and his attorneys argued that the 7.5% of the total development costs \"was far in excess\" of the prevailing market rate of 2% to 3%. Arthur T. denied his cousin's claim. He argued that Arthur S. trumped up the charges in order to take control of the company and pay himself and the other shareholders more money. Attorneys for Arthur T. noted that Cushman & Wakefield later appraised the Bourne property at $25.5 million. Arthur T. also defended his arrangement with Kettenbach and Pasquale, which he said allowed Market Basket to purchase properties without alerting its competitors, thus avoiding a bidding war and saving the company money. The Board of Directors hired Mel L. Greenberg, a retired judge, to investigate Arthur S.' claims. Greenberg found that there was no wrongdoing by Arthur T. in the purchase of real estate (including the Bourne property) that the fees paid to Retail Development and Management were not excessive. However, he did find that Arthur T. and the Board of Directors had neglected their fiduciary duties by not looking into whether or not the company would have been better off if it had exercised its option to purchase its store in Somersworth, New Hampshire instead of renting it from a company in which Arthur T. and his family owned a 55% stake.\n\nIn mid-2013, Rafaele Evans switched loyalties, which tipped the majority vote from Arthur T. to Arthur S.\n\nOn June 23, 2014, Arthur T. Demoulas was fired by the Board of Directors. In response to his firing, six high-level managers resigned, and 300 employees held a rally outside Market Basket's Chelsea, Massachusetts flagship store on June 24. Beginning on July 18, 300 warehouse workers and 68 drivers refused to make deliveries, which left store shelves severely depleted. On August 27, 2014, after months of protest by Market Basket employees and customers, the shareholders of DeMoulas Super Markets, Inc. reached an agreement to sell the remaining 50.5% shares of the company to Arthur T. Demoulas for $1.5 billion.\n\nIn July 2014, \"Forbes\" estimated the Demoulas family's net worth to be $2.2 billion. They also ranked the family as the 104th richest family in the United States. The following year, Forbes put their value at $3.3 Billion, which made them the 83rd richest family in the U.S. The Demoulas family dropped off the \"Forbes\" list in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "32331160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32331160", "title": "Dianna Booher", "text": "Dianna Booher\n\nDianna Booher is an American author, and communication expert. She is also the chief executive of \"Booher Research Institute\", a Colleyville, Texas-based company that offers communication consulting, executive coaching (public speaking, executive presence, enterprise-wide communication messaging), and publishing strategies for Fortune 500 organizations and nonprofit organizations.\n\nShe is also the founder of Booher Consultants, a communication training firm, that has worked for Fortune 500 organizations and governmental agencies since 1980. Booher Consultants was acquired by Communispond on August 1, 2017.\n\nDianna Daniels Booher was born in Hillsboro, Texas, as the daughter of a postal supervisor Alton B. and Opal Daniels. She graduated \"cum laude\" from North Texas State University in 1970 with a Bachelor of Arts and earned a Master of Arts degree in English literature from University of Houston in 1979. In 1967 she married Daniel T. Booher, a minister of music. They had two children: Jeffrey Thomas and Lisa Christine.\n\nBooher has written 47 books on business and personal development topics, all published by major U.S. publishers and their various imprints: Simon and Schuster, Penguin Random House, McGraw-Hill, and HarperCollins. Reviewing \"Your Signature Work\", \"Publishers Weekly\" criticized its use of a \"hackneyed analogy\" between life and basketball, but said it offers \"good advice\". Fort Worth Star-Telegram called \"E-Writing\" \"user-friendly\" in a favorable review.\n\nHer 2015 book, \"What More Can I Say? Why Communication Fails and What to Do About It\", is discussed in articles in Forbes, FastCompany.com, TLNT.com, and Huffington Post.\n\nHer 2017 book \"Communicate Like a Leader: Connecting Strategically to Coach, Inspire, and Get Things Done\" was mentioned favorably in INC, Entrepreneur.com, and Forbes.\n\n"}
{"id": "54450987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54450987", "title": "Disagree and commit", "text": "Disagree and commit\n\nDisagree and commit is a management principle which states that individuals are allowed to disagree while a decision is being made, but that once a decision has been made, everybody must commit to it. The principle can also be understood as a statement about \"when\" it is useful to have conflict and disagreement, with the principle saying disagreement is useful in early states of decision-making while harmful after a decision has been made. Disagree and commit is a method of avoiding the consensus trap, in which the lack of consensus leads to inaction.\n\nScott McNealy used the phrase as early as sometime between 1983 and 1991, as part of the line \"Agree and commit, disagree and commit, or get out of the way\".\n\nThe concept has also been attributed to Andrew Grove at Intel.\n\nAmazon added \"Have a Backbone; Disagree and Commit\" as one of its leadership principles sometime in 2010–2011. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos mentioned the term in his \"2016 Letter to Shareholders\".\n\n\nNoted difficulties of applying \"disagree and commit\" are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "314993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314993", "title": "Employment", "text": "Employment\n\nEmployment is a relationship between two parties, usually based on a contract where work is paid for, where one party, which may be a corporation, for profit, not-for-profit organization, co-operative or other entity is the employer and the other is the employee. Employees work in return for payment, which may be in the form of an hourly wage, by piecework or an annual salary, depending on the type of work an employee does or which sector she or he is working in. Employees in some fields or sectors may receive gratuities, bonus payment or stock options. In some types of employment, employees may receive benefits in addition to payment. Benefits can include health insurance, housing, disability insurance or use of a gym. Employment is typically governed by employment laws, regulations or legal contracts.\n\nAn employee contributes labor and expertise to an endeavor of an employer or of a person conducting a business or undertaking (PCBU) and is usually hired to perform specific duties which are packaged into a job. In a corporate context, an employee is a person who is hired to provide services to a company on a regular basis in exchange for compensation and who does not provide these services as part of an independent business.\n\nEmployer and managerial control within an organization rests at many levels and has important implications for staff and productivity alike, with control forming the fundamental link between desired outcomes and actual processes. Employers must balance interests such as decreasing wage constraints with a maximization of labor productivity in order to achieve a profitable and productive employment relationship.\n\nThe main ways for employers to find workers and for people to find employers are via jobs listings in newspapers (via classified advertising) and online, also called job boards. Employers and job seekers also often find each other via professional recruitment consultants which receive a commission from the employer to find, screen and select suitable candidates. However, a study has shown that such consultants may not be reliable when they fail to use established principles in selecting employees. A more traditional approach is with a \"Help Wanted\" sign in the establishment (usually hung on a window or door or placed on a store counter). Evaluating different employees can be quite laborious but setting up different techniques to analyze their skill to measure their talents within the field can be best through assessments. Employer and potential employee commonly take the additional step of getting to know each other through the process of job interview.\n\nTraining and development refers to the employer's effort to equip a newly hired employee with necessary skills to perform at the job, and to help the employee grow within the organization. An appropriate level of training and development helps to improve employee's job satisfaction.\n\nThere are many ways that employees are paid, including by hourly wages, by piecework, by yearly salary, or by gratuities (with the latter often being combined with another form of payment). In sales jobs and real estate positions, the employee may be paid a commission, a percentage of the value of the goods or services that they have sold. In some fields and professions (e.g., executive jobs), employees may be eligible for a bonus if they meet certain targets. Some executives and employees may be paid in stocks or stock options, a compensation approach that has the added benefit, from the company's point of view, of helping to align the interests of the compensated individual with the performance of the company.\n\nEmployee benefits are various non-wage compensation provided to employee in addition to their wages or salaries. The benefits can include: housing (employer-provided or employer-paid), group insurance (health, dental, life etc.), disability income protection, retirement benefits, daycare, tuition reimbursement, sick leave, vacation (paid and non-paid), social security, profit sharing, funding of education, and other specialized benefits. In some cases, such as with workers employed in remote or isolated regions, the benefits may include meals. Employee benefits can improve the relationship between employee and employer and lowers staff turnover.\n\nOrganizational justice is an employee's perception and judgement of employer's treatment in the context of fairness or justice. The resulting actions to influence the employee-employer relationship is also a part of organizational justice.\n\nEmployees can organize into trade or labor unions, which represent the work force to collectively bargain with the management of organizations about working, and contractual conditions and services.\n\nUsually, either an employee or employer may end the relationship at any time, often subject to a certain notice period. This is referred to as at-will employment. The contract between the two parties specifies the responsibilities of each when ending the relationship and may include requirements such as notice periods, severance pay, and security measures. In some professions, notably teaching, civil servants, university professors, and some orchestra jobs, some employees may have tenure, which means that they cannot be dismissed at will. Another type of termination is a layoff.\n\nWage labor is the socioeconomic relationship between a worker and an employer, where the worker sells their labor under a formal or informal employment contract. These transactions usually occur in a labor market where wages are market determined. In exchange for the wages paid, the work product generally becomes the undifferentiated property of the employer, except for special cases such as the vesting of intellectual property patents in the United States where patent rights are usually vested in the original personal inventor. A wage laborer is a person whose primary means of income is from the selling of his or her labor in this way.\n\nIn modern mixed economies such as that of the OECD countries, it is currently the dominant form of work arrangement. Although most work occurs following this structure, the wage work arrangements of CEOs, professional employees, and professional contract workers are sometimes conflated with class assignments, so that \"wage labor\" is considered to apply only to unskilled, semi-skilled or manual labor.\n\nWage labor, as institutionalized under today's market economic systems, has been criticized, especially by both mainstream socialists and anarcho-syndicalists, using the pejorative term wage slavery. Socialists draw parallels between the trade of labor as a commodity and slavery. Cicero is also known to have suggested such parallels.\n\nThe American philosopher John Dewey posited that until \"industrial feudalism\" is replaced by \"industrial democracy\", politics will be \"the shadow cast on society by big business\". Thomas Ferguson has postulated in his investment theory of party competition that the undemocratic nature of economic institutions under capitalism causes elections to become occasions when blocs of investors coalesce and compete to control the state.\n\nAustralian employment has been governed by the Fair Work Act since 2009.\n\nBangladesh Association of International Recruiting Agencies (BAIRA) is an association of national level with its international reputation of co-operation and welfare of the migrant workforce as well as its approximately 1200 members agencies in collaboration with and support from the Government of Bangladesh.\n\nIn the Canadian province of Ontario, formal complaints can be brought to the Ministry of Labour. In the province of Quebec, grievances can be filed with the Commission des normes du travail.\n\nPakistan has no contract Labor, Minimum Wage and Provident Funds Acts. Contract labor in Pakistan must be paid minimum wage and certain facilities are to be provided to labor. However, the Acts are not yet fully implemented.\n\nIndia has Contract Labor, Minimum Wage, Provident Funds Act and various other acts to comply with. Contract labor in India must be paid minimum wage and certain facilities are to be provided to labor. However, there is still a large amount of work that remains to be done to fully implement the Act.\n\nIn the Philippines, employment is regulated by the Department of Labor and Employment.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, employment contracts are categorised by the government into the following types:\n\nFor purposes of U.S. federal income tax withholding, 26 U.S.C. § 3401(c) provides a definition for the term \"employee\" specific to chapter 24 of the Internal Revenue Code:\n\n\"For purposes of this chapter, the term “employee” includes an officer, employee, or elected official of the United States, a State, or any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia, or any agency or instrumentality of any one or more of the foregoing. The term “employee” also includes an officer of a corporation.\" This definition does not exclude all those who are commonly known as 'employees'. “Similarly, Latham’s instruction which indicated that under 26 U.S.C. § 3401(c) the category of ‘employee’ does not include privately employed wage earners is a preposterous reading of the statute. It is obvious that within the context of both statutes the word ‘includes’ is a term of enlargement not of limitation, and the reference to certain entities or categories is not intended to exclude all others.”\n\nEmployees are often contrasted with independent contractors, especially when there is dispute as to the worker's entitlement to have matching taxes paid, workers compensation, and unemployment insurance benefits. However, in September 2009, the court case of \"Brown v. J. Kaz, Inc.\" ruled that independent contractors are regarded as employees for the purpose of discrimination laws if they work for the employer on a regular basis, and said employer directs the time, place, and manner of employment.\n\nIn non-union work environments, in the United States, unjust termination complaints can be brought to the United States Department of Labor.\n\nLabor unions are legally recognized as representatives of workers in many industries in the United States. Their activity today centers on collective bargaining over wages, benefits, and working conditions for their membership, and on representing their members in disputes with management over violations of contract provisions. Larger unions also typically engage in lobbying activities and electioneering at the state and federal level.\n\nMost unions in America are aligned with one of two larger umbrella organizations: the AFL-CIO created in 1955, and the Change to Win Federation which split from the AFL-CIO in 2005. Both advocate policies and legislation on behalf of workers in the United States and Canada, and take an active role in politics. The AFL-CIO is especially concerned with global trade issues.\n\nAccording to Swedish law, there are three types of employment.\nThere are no laws about minimum salary in Sweden. Instead there are agreements between employer organizations and trade unions about minimum salaries, and other employment conditions.\n\nThere is a type of employment contract which is common but not regulated in law, and that is Hour employment (\"swe: Timanställning\"), which can be Normal employment (unlimited), but the work time is unregulated and decided per immediate need basis. The employee is expected to be answering the phone and come to work when needed, e.g. when someone is ill and absent from work. They will receive salary only for actual work time and can in reality be fired for no reason by not being called anymore. This type of contract is common in the public sector.\n\nYoung workers are at higher risk for occupational injury and face certain occupational hazards at a higher rate; this is generally due to their employment in high-risk industries. For example, in the United States, young people are injured at work at twice the rate of their older counterparts. These workers are also at higher risk for motor vehicle accidents at work, due to less work experience, a lower use of seatbelts, and higher rates of distracted driving. To mitigate this risk, those under the age of 17 are restricted from certain types of driving, including transporting people and goods under certain circumstances.\n\nHigh-risk industries for young workers include agriculture, restaurants, waste management, and mining. In the United States, those under the age of 18 are restricted from certain jobs that are deemed dangerous under the Fair Labor Standards Act.\n\nYouth employment programs are most effective when they include both theoretical classroom training and hands-on training with work placements.\n\nIn the conversation of employment among younger aged workers, youth unemployment has also been monitored. Youth unemployment rates tend to be higher than the adult rates in every country in the world.\n\nThose older than the statutory defined retirement age may continue to work, either out of enjoyment or necessity. However, depending on the nature of the job, older workers may need to transition into less-physical forms of work to avoid injury. Working past retirement age also has positive effects, because it gives a sense of purpose and allows people to maintain social networks and activity levels. Older workers are often found to be discriminated against by employers.\n\nEmployment is no guarantee of escaping poverty, the International Labour Organization (ILO) estimates that as many as 40% of workers are poor, not earning enough to keep their families above the $2 a day poverty line. For instance, in India most of the chronically poor are wage earners in formal employment, because their jobs are insecure and low paid and offer no chance to accumulate wealth to avoid risks. According to the UNRISD, increasing labor productivity appears to have a negative impact on job creation: in the 1960s, a 1% increase in output per worker was associated with a reduction in employment growth of 0.07%, by the first decade of this century the same productivity increase implies reduced employment growth by 0.54%. Both increased employment opportunities and increased labor productivity (as long as it also translates into higher wages) are needed to tackle poverty. Increases in employment without increases in productivity leads to a rise in the number of \"working poor\", which is why some experts are now promoting the creation of \"quality\" and not \"quantity\" in labor market policies. This approach does highlight how higher productivity has helped reduce poverty in East Asia, but the negative impact is beginning to show. In Vietnam, for example, employment growth has slowed while productivity growth has continued. Furthermore, productivity increases do not always lead to increased wages, as can be seen in the United States, where the gap between productivity and wages has been rising since the 1980s.\n\nResearchers at the Overseas Development Institute argue that there are differences across economic sectors in creating employment that reduces poverty. 24 instances of growth were examined, in which 18 reduced poverty. This study showed that other sectors were just as important in reducing unemployment, such as manufacturing. The services sector is most effective at translating productivity growth into employment growth. Agriculture provides a safety net for jobs and economic buffer when other sectors are struggling.\n\nScholars conceptualize the employment relationship in various ways. A key assumption is the extent to which the employment relationship necessarily includes conflicts of interests between employers and employees, and the form of such conflicts. In economic theorizing, the labor market mediates all such conflicts such that employers and employees who enter into an employment relationship are assumed to find this arrangement in their own self-interest. In human resource management theorizing, employers and employees are assumed to have shared interests (or a unity of interests, hence the label “unitarism”). Any conflicts that exist are seen as a manifestation of poor human resource management policies or interpersonal clashes such as personality conflicts, both of which can and should be managed away. From the perspective of pluralist industrial relations, the employment relationship is characterized by a plurality of stakeholders with legitimate interests (hence the label “pluralism), and some conflicts of interests are seen as inherent in the employment relationship (e.g., wages v. profits). Lastly, the critical paradigm emphasizes antagonistic conflicts of interests between various groups (e.g., the competing capitalist and working classes in a Marxist framework) that are part of a deeper social conflict of unequal power relations. As a result, there are four common models of employment:\n\n\nThese models are important because they help reveal why individuals hold differing perspectives on human resource management policies, labor unions, and employment regulation. For example, human resource management policies are seen as dictated by the market in the first view, as essential mechanisms for aligning the interests of employees and employers and thereby creating profitable companies in the second view, as insufficient for looking out for workers’ interests in the third view, and as manipulative managerial tools for shaping the ideology and structure of the workplace in the fourth view.\n\nLiterature on the employment impact of economic growth and on how growth is associated with employment at a macro, sector and industry level was aggregated in 2013.\n\nResearchers found evidence to suggest growth in manufacturing and services have good impact on employment. They found GDP growth on employment in agriculture to be limited, but that value-added growth had a relatively larger impact. The impact on job creation by industries/economic activities as well as the extent of the body of evidence and the key studies. For extractives, they again found extensive evidence suggesting growth in the sector has limited impact on employment. In textiles however, although evidence was low, studies suggest growth there positively contributed to job creation. In agri-business and food processing, they found impact growth to be positive.\n\nThey found that most available literature focuses on OECD and middle-income countries somewhat, where economic growth impact has been shown to be positive on employment. The researchers didn't find sufficient evidence to conclude any impact of growth on employment in LDCs despite some pointing to the positive impact, others point to limitations. They recommended that complementary policies are necessary to ensure economic growth's positive impact on LDC employment. With trade, industry and investment, they only found limited evidence of positive impact on employment from industrial and investment policies and for others, while large bodies of evidence does exist, the exact impact remains contested.\n\nResearchers have also explored the relationship between employment and illicit activities. Using evidence from Africa, a research team found that a program for Liberian ex-fighters reduced work hours on illicit activities. The employment program also reduced interest in mercenary work in nearby wars. The study concludes that while the use of capital inputs or cash payments for peaceful work created a reduction in illicit activities, the impact of training alone is rather low.\n\nThe balance of economic efficiency and social equity is the ultimate debate in the field of employment relations. By meeting the needs of the employer; generating profits to establish and maintain economic efficiency; whilst maintaining a balance with the employee and creating social equity that benefits the worker so that he/she can fund and enjoy healthy living; proves to be a continuous revolving issue in westernized societies.\n\nGlobalization has effected these issues by creating certain economic factors that disallow or allow various employment issues. Economist Edward Lee (1996) studies the effects of globalization and summarizes the four major points of concern that affect employment relations:\n\nWhat also results from Lee’s (1996) findings is that in industrialized countries an average of almost 70 per cent of workers are employed in the service sector, most of which consists of non-tradable activities. As a result, workers are forced to become more skilled and develop sought after trades, or find other means of survival. Ultimately this is a result of changes and trends of employment, an evolving workforce, and globalization that is represented by a more skilled and increasing highly diverse labor force, that are growing in non standard forms of employment (Markey, R. et al. 2006).\n\nVarious youth subcultures have been associated with not working, such as the hippie subculture in the 1960s and 1970s (which endorsed the idea of \"dropping out\" of society) and the punk subculture, in which some members live in anarchist squats (illegal housing).\n\nOne of the alternatives to work is engaging in postsecondary education at a college, university or professional school. One of the major costs of obtaining a postsecondary education is the opportunity cost of forgone wages due to not working. At times when jobs are hard to find, such as during recessions, unemployed individuals may decide to get postsecondary education, because there is less of an opportunity cost.\n\nWorkplace democracy is the application of democracy in all its forms (including voting systems, debates, democratic structuring, due process, adversarial process, systems of appeal) to the workplace.\n\nWhen an individual entirely owns the business for which they labor, this is known as self-employment. Self-employment often leads to incorporation. Incorporation offers certain protections of one's personal assets. Individuals who are self-employed may own a small business. They may also be considered to be an entrepreneur.\n\nIn some countries, individuals who are not working can receive social assistance support (e.g., welfare or food stamps) to enable them to rent housing, buy food, repair or replace household goods, maintenance of children and observe social customs that require financial expenditure.\n\nWorkers who are not paid wages, such as volunteers who perform tasks for charities, hospitals or not-for-profit organizations, are generally not considered employed. One exception to this is an internship, an employment situation in which the worker receives training or experience (and possibly college credit) as the chief form of compensation.\n\nThose who work under obligation for the purpose of fulfilling a debt, such as indentured servants, or as property of the person or entity they work for, such as slaves, do not receive pay for their services and are not considered employed. Some historians suggest that slavery is older than employment, but both arrangements have existed for all recorded history. Indentured servitude and slavery are not considered compatible with human rights or with democracy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43288533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43288533", "title": "Enrique Omar Suárez", "text": "Enrique Omar Suárez\n\nEnrique Omar Suárez is an Argentine union leader, businessman, and politician. He is the previous Secretary General of SOMU (Sindicato de Obreros Marítimos Unidos), the Argentinian union for longshoremen and other maritime workers. He is also the president of Mercante SA and director of Maruba SCA, the largest shipping company in Argentina.\n\nA longtime friend and ally of the nation’s ruling Kirchner family, Suárez has been described as an “ultra-Menemista” who became a “hyper-Kirchnerista.” He has also been called a “Cristina-ista.” One source identifies him as “President Cristina Kirchner’s closest and most powerful ally.” He is accused by some sources as having been implicated in killings, shootings, narcotics trafficking, and various underworld activities. Nowadays he is in jail in Marcos Paz facility.\n\nHe is widely known by the nickname “Caballo” (horse).\n\nSuárez was born and raised in Monte Caseros, a town in the province of Corrientes, where he grew up in “a humble family.” His father was a carpenter, and his mother a hairdresser. He had two brothers and a sister. His brother Antonio, who was in turn president of the Social Work SOMU and head of the AFJP (Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones) San José, died under “strange” circumstances but was ruled a suicide.\n\nAccording to an official biographical account, Suárez began to work in SOMU in 1973 and after that worked in “various firms in the sector,” until 1987, when he was elected delegate and secretary of the Closed Section of SOMU. In 1989, he was elected Deputy Secretary General of SOMU, and in 1992 he was elected SOMU’s Secretary General, a position he holds to this day. Several accounts state that Suárez was the chauffeur for his predecessor as Secretary General of SOMU, Juan Arce, and that he became Secretary General as a result of a 1989 building takeover by “armed thugs” who were members of the union. “His arrival in the union was, as is the mark of his entire career, through the gang,” comments one source, which adds that some of the “thugs” that put Suárez in his job continued to work under him, “negotiating with companies and squeezing opponents.”\n\nSuárez was a candidate for Provincial Deputy for the New Party. Businessman Adolfo Navajas Artaza, who was governor of Corrientes in 1969-73 and was denounced for involvement in the disappearance of rural peasants who worked for his company, has been called Suárez’s “political godfather.”\n\nDuring the Menem years (1989–99), Suárez was “harshly questioned” when he and others signed an agreement on behalf of the Argentine Marines that accepted “poor working conditions” on ships flying under a Uruguayan flag of convenience.\n\nIn 2006, Suárez was elected president of the Mutual Association of SOMU. He is also a member of the Commission of Port, Maritime, and River Interests, and is heavily involved in the General Confederation of Labor of the Republic of Argentina (CGT). During his tenure at SOMU, he has also held various positions in the Argentina Confederation of Transport Workers (CATT), the Argentine Maritime Federation (FAMAR), the Caja de Asignaciones Familiares Portuarias y Maritímas (CAFPYMAR) and the Maritime Staff Social Work (OSPM). He is also the founder of la Escuela de Capacitación y Formación Marítima Omar Alberto Rupp, created in 1999 to upgrade the training of maritime workers.\n\nSuárez became director of Maruba in October 2010, after Mercante SA announced that it would acquire a 30% stake in the firm, pending government approval.\n\nSuárez has been criticized for signing agreements that resulted in lower wages and poorer working conditions and for spending $1.5 million on a recreational camp for union leaders, El Progreso, to which maritime workers are forbidden access.\n\nA 2011 investigative report accused Suárez of having “invented” much of his past, and maintained that it was “a challenge” to determine his actual work history.\n\nAfter Suárez became director of Maruba in October 2010, he used his position at SOMU to launch “a strong attack” on other companies in the sector, pressuring union shippers in the port of Buenos Aires to hire Maruba’s tugboats instead of those belonging to the Dutch firm Smith International. Smith complained to Ricardo Lujan of the Secretariat for Ports and Waterways, but he refused to act against Suárez. Smith backed off from operations in Buenos Aires and sought instead to increase its presence in the port of Bahía Blanca, but Suárez then put on the pressure there, engineering strikes that made it impossible for Smith to meet its contracts; ultimately, Smith withdrew entirely from the Argentinian market. Its disappearance from Bahía Blanca improved the fortunes of local competitors but the port lost half of its tugboats, which increased the likelihood of delays.\n\nIn late 2010, SOMU blockaded Paraguayan trade in the port of Buenos Aires, and consequently about 7000 containers in transit to Paraguay had to wait nearly a month to be shipped to their destinations. Suárez said that SOMU had “the full support of the Cristina Kirchner administration” in implementing the blockade. He said that it was “a Kirchner government strategy to have Argentine pre-eminence in the Paraná-Paraguay river system” and that President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner had in fact “explicitly called for a boycott for five days in a gesture of solidarity” with Paraguayan maritime workers.\n\nSuárez later denied having stated that the president supported the boycott. “I never said that. Clarín misrepresented my words,\" he maintained, and claimed that, on the contrary, he had told Clarín “that the president asked us to lift the blockade.” He said that the blockade had been undertaken in solidarity with Paraguayan maritime workers, because Paraguayan vessels “do not respect minimum and decent working conditions set out in international standards.” The Paraguayan counterpart to SOMU, however, announced that it was opposed to the blockade.\n\nIn the summer of 2011, Suárez threatened to blockade Paraguayan shipping to overcome “wage asymmetry” in Mercosur and “asymmetry in navigation” on the Paraná. The real goal of Suárez and the Argentinian government, it was claimed, was to compel shippers to switch several billion dollars’ worth of freight from Paraguayan firms to Maruba.\n\nIn September 2011, Ivana Maria Bianchi, a member of the Argentinian Chamber of Deputies, filed a document with the Chamber of Deputies requesting an investigation of Suárez, listing several charges against him. According to Bianchi, Suárez had “launched a powerful attack against shipping, oil and grain” to promote SOMU and Maruba; had unsettled “the waters and the rules of the local maritime sector” with the support of the government of Christina Fernández de Kirchner; had frequently boasted that “everything that moves over the water is mine”; had “carried out a prolonged assault on the fishing industry in Mar del Plata” in 2008 in an effort to force it to yield to union demands; had pressured Maruba’s competitors to cede business to it; had benefited from government favoritism in matters ranging from permits to contracts; and had “loot[ed] the coffers of the National Bank” to increase Argentinian shipbuilding and heighten the Argentinian maritime presence around the globe. Bianchi noted that Maruba, formerly “a company in deep economic problems,” had quickly turned successful as a result of government support, despite owning “virtually no Argentinian vessels” and having debts in ports around the world. Bianchi called Suárez “the most visible and militant face of the merchant marine.”\n\nSOMU called a strike on March 6, 2012, demanding higher staffing levels. “We don’t have anything to negotiate,” said Suárez. “They either assign the number of crew members that are necessary or the coast guard can do the work.” When the strike paralyzed maritime operations in Argentina, Suárez said: “Not one ship more will enter or leave.” As a result of the strike, soy futures soared on the Chicago Board of Trade.\n\nIn February 2012, Suárez announced that SOMU would “cease to provide services to U.K. vessels as well as those of other nations hired by U.K.-based shipping companies,” owing to escalating tensions between Argentina and the U.K. over the Falkland Islands. “As workers we are totally offended by...the militarization of the South Atlantic,” Suárez said.\n\nSuárez has been described as being responsible for “a lush handbook of deaths, drugs, and corruption.” When Eduardo Galantini was mayor of Monte Caseros, he was reportedly “threatened with death” because the municipality held land that was “coveted by Suárez.”\n\nSuárez reportedly played a key role in Kirchnerist businessman Cristóbal López’s development of a nationwide gambling empire.\n\nPolitician, businessman, and union leader Luis Barrionuevo reportedly financed Suárez’s “Proyecto Corrientes,” a Peronist political organization in Suárez’s home province.\n\nSuárez was one of ten or so members of the delegation that accompanied Cristina Fernández de Kirchner to Rome to meet with Pope Francis in 2013.\n\nSuárez and leaders of three other unions agreed in 2006 “to unify their efforts to support and deepen the national recovery policy promoted by the government of President Néstor Kirchner.” Suárez himself stated that the four unions were “in full accordance with the national direction of economic and social policy of President Néstor Kirchner and in full service to the reconstruction of the Argentine maritime sector.” Suárez said that “the unity of the major world trade unions” was “terrible news for the nostalgia of neoliberalism” and represented a success for the economic and social strategy of President Kirchner.\n\nMayor Javier Iud of San Antonio said in 2007 that it was important to work closely with Suárez on local issues because Suárez is “a ‘soldier’ of Cristina” and an “unconditional ally of CGT as he was under Néstor Kirchner.”\n\nOne source wrote in 2008 that Suárez was “now identified with Kirchner to the point that in the early months of the presidential campaign, he decorated the port area…with slogans reading ‘With him or with her, Kirchner president, SOMU driving. Omar Suárez.’”\n\nSuárez took part in a labor-union tribute to Néstor Kirchner on the first anniversary of his death.\n\nSuárez said in May 2011 that Argentina’s “historic” maritime presence around the world was a sign of \"the remarkable recovery of Argentina at the hands of our President, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner,” and was proof that “the Argentine people need four more years of Cristina.”\n\nSuárez stated in April 2012 that in the elections for head of the CGT, scheduled for 2013, he would vote for the Kirchner candidate, not for current CGT leader Hugo Moyano, from whom, it was reported, he had recently been maintaining a “certain distance.”\n\nSuárez stated in March 2014 that his goal as head of SOMU is “to recover a Néstor Kirchner Argentina that is a matrix of energy and development.”\n\nSuárez has been described as using his contacts with the Casa Rosada to obtain credit at the National Bank to purchase ships from China.\n\nNowadays he is in jail in Marcos Paz facility.\n"}
{"id": "162791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162791", "title": "Evolutionary economics", "text": "Evolutionary economics\n\nEvolutionary economics is part of mainstream economics as well as a heterodox school of economic thought that is inspired by evolutionary biology. Much like mainstream economics, it stresses complex interdependencies, competition, growth, structural change, and resource constraints but differs in the approaches which are used to analyze these phenomena.\n\nEvolutionary economics deals with the study of processes that transform economy for firms, institutions, industries, employment, production, trade and growth within, through the actions of diverse agents from experience and interactions, using evolutionary methodology. Evolutionary economics analyses the unleashing of a process of technological and institutional innovation by generating and testing a diversity of ideas which discover and accumulate more survival value for the costs incurred than competing alternatives. The evidence suggests that it could be adaptive efficiency that defines economic efficiency. Mainstream economic reasoning begins with the postulates of scarcity and rational agents (that is, agents modeled as maximizing their individual welfare), with the \"rational choice\" for any agent being a straightforward exercise in mathematical optimization. There has been renewed interest in treating economic systems as evolutionary systems in the developing field of Complexity economics.\n\nEvolutionary economics does not take the characteristics of either the objects of choice or of the decision-maker as fixed. Rather its focus is on the non-equilibrium \"processes\" that transform the economy \"from within\" and their implications. The processes in turn emerge from actions of diverse agents with bounded rationality who may learn from experience and interactions and whose differences contribute to the change. The subject draws more recently on evolutionary game theory and on the evolutionary methodology of Charles Darwin and the non-equilibrium economics principle of circular and cumulative causation. It is naturalistic in purging earlier notions of economic change as teleological or necessarily improving the human condition.\n\nA different approach is to apply evolutionary psychology principles to economics which is argued to explain problems such as inconsistencies and biases in rational choice theory. Basic economic concepts such as utility may be better viewed as due to preferences that maximized evolutionary fitness in the ancestral environment but not necessarily in the current one.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, Karl Marx presented a schema of stages of historical development, by introducing the notion that human nature was not constant and was not determinative of the nature of the social system; on the contrary, he made it a principle that human behavior was a function of the social and economic system in which it occurred.\n\nMarx based his theory of economic development on the premise of developing economic systems; specifically, over the course of history superior economic systems would replace inferior ones. Inferior systems were beset by internal contradictions and inefficiencies that make them incapable of surviving over the long term. In Marx's scheme, feudalism was replaced by capitalism, which would eventually be superseded by socialism.\n\nAt approximately the same time, Charles Darwin developed a general framework for comprehending any process whereby small, random variations could accumulate and predominate over time into large-scale changes that resulted in the emergence of wholly novel forms (\"speciation\").\n\nThis was followed shortly after by the work of the American pragmatic philosophers (Peirce, James, Dewey) and the founding of two new disciplines, psychology and anthropology, both of which were oriented toward cataloging and developing explanatory frameworks for the variety of behavior patterns (both individual and collective) that were becoming increasingly obvious to all systematic observers. The state of the world converged with the state of the evidence to make almost inevitable the development of a more \"modern\" framework for the analysis of substantive economic issues.\n\nThorstein Veblen (1898) coined the term \"evolutionary economics\" in English. He began his career in the midst of this period of intellectual ferment, and as a young scholar came into direct contact with some of the leading figures of the various movements that were to shape the style and substance of social sciences into the next century and beyond. Veblen saw the need for taking account of cultural variation in his approach; no universal \"human nature\" could possibly be invoked to explain the variety of norms and behaviors that the new science of anthropology showed to be the rule, rather than the exception. He emphasised the conflict between \"industrial\" and \"pecuniary\" or ceremonial values and this Veblenian dichotomy was interpreted in the hands of later writers as the \"ceremonial / instrumental dichotomy\" (Hodgson 2004);\n\nVeblen saw that every culture is materially based and dependent on tools and skills to support the \"life process\", while at the same time, every culture appeared to have a stratified structure of status (\"invidious distinctions\") that ran entirely contrary to the imperatives of the \"instrumental\" (read: \"technological\") aspects of group life. The \"ceremonial\" was related to the past, and conformed to and supported the tribal legends; \"instrumental\" was oriented toward the technological imperative to judge value by the ability to control future consequences. The \"Veblenian dichotomy\" was a specialized variant of the \"instrumental theory of value\" due to John Dewey, with whom Veblen was to make contact briefly at the University of Chicago.\n\nArguably the most important works by Veblen include, but are not restricted to, his most famous works (\"The Theory of the Leisure Class\"; \"The Theory of Business Enterprise\"), but his monograph \"Imperial Germany and the Industrial Revolution\" and the 1898 essay entitled \"Why is Economics not an Evolutionary Science\" have both been influential in shaping the research agenda for subsequent generations of social scientists. TOLC and TOBE together constitute an alternative construction to the neoclassical marginalist theories of consumption and production, respectively.\n\nBoth are founded on his dichotomy, which is at its core a valuational principle. The ceremonial patterns of activity are not bound to any past, but to one that generated a specific set of advantages and prejudices that underlie the current institutions. \"Instrumental\" judgments create benefits according to a new criterion, and therefore are inherently subversive. This line of analysis was more fully and explicitly developed by Clarence E. Ayres of the University of Texas at Austin from the 1920s.\n\nA seminal article by Armen Alchian (1950) argued for adaptive success of firms faced with uncertainty and incomplete information replacing profit maximization as an appropriate modeling assumption. Kenneth Boulding was one of the advocates of the evolutionary methods in social science, as is evident from Kenneth Boulding's Evolutionary Perspective. Kenneth Arrow, Ronald Coase and Douglass North are some of the Bank of Sweden Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel winners who are known for their sympathy to the field.\n\nMore narrowly the works Jack Downie and Edith Penrose offer many insights for those thinking about evolution at the level of the firm in an industry.\n\nJoseph Schumpeter, who lived in the first half of 20th century, was the author of the book \"The Theory of Economic Development\" (1911, transl. 1934). It is important to note that for the word \"development\" he used in his native language, the German word \"Entwicklung\", which can be translated as development or evolution. The translators of the day used the word \"development\" from the French \"développement\", as opposed to \"evolution\" as this was used by Darwin. (Schumpeter, in his later writings in English as a professor at Harvard, used the word \"evolution\".) The current term in common use is economic development.\n\nIn Schumpeter's book he proposed an idea radical for its time: the evolutionary perspective. He based his theory on the assumption of usual macroeconomic equilibrium, which is something like \"the normal mode of economic affairs\". This equilibrium is being perpetually destroyed by entrepreneurs who try to introduce innovations. A successful introduction of an innovation (i.e. a disruptive technology) disturbs the normal flow of economic life, because it forces some of the already existing technologies and means of production to lose their positions within the economy.\n\nOne of the major contributions to the emerging field of evolutionary economics has been the publication of \"An Evolutionary Theory of Economic Change\" by Richard Nelson and Sidney G. Winter. These authors have focused mostly on the issue of changes in technology and routines, suggesting a framework for their analysis. If the change occurs constantly in the economy, then some kind of evolutionary process must be in action, and there has been a proposal that this process is Darwinian in nature.\n\nThen, mechanisms that provide selection, generate variation and establish self-replication, must be identified. The authors introduced the term 'steady change' to highlight the evolutionary aspect of economic processes and contrast it with the concept of 'steady state' popular in classical economics. Their approach can be compared and contrasted with the population ecology or organizational ecology approach in sociology: see Douma & Schreuder (2013, chapter 11).\n\nMilton Friedman proposed that markets act as major selection vehicles. As firms compete, unsuccessful rivals fail to capture an appropriate market share, go bankrupt and have to exit. The variety of competing firms is both in their products and practices, that are matched against markets. Both products and practices are determined by routines that firms use: standardized patterns of actions implemented constantly. By imitating these routines, firms propagate them and thus establish inheritance of successful practices.\nA general theory of this process has been proposed by Kurt Dopfer, John Foster and Jason Potts as the micro meso macro framework.\n\nEconomic processes, as part of life processes, are intrinsically evolutionary. From the evolutionary equation that describe life processes, an analytical formula on the main factors of economic processes, such as fixed cost and variable cost, can be derived. The economic return, or competitiveness, of economic entities of different characteristics under different kinds of environment can be calculated. The change of environment causes the change of competitiveness of different economic entities and systems. This is the process of evolution of economic systems.\n\nIn recent years, evolutionary models have been used to assist decision making in applied settings and find solutions to problems such as optimal product design and service portfolio diversification.\n\nA different approach is to apply evolutionary psychology principles to economics which is argued to explain problems such as inconsistencies and biases in rational choice theory. A basic economic concept such as utility may be better viewed as due to preferences that maximized evolutionary fitness in the ancestral environment but not necessarily in the current one. Loss aversion may be explained as being rational when living at subsistence level where a reduction of resources may have meant death and it thus may have been rational to place a greater value on losses than on gains.\n\nPeople are sometimes more cooperative and altruistic than predicted by economic theory which may be explained by mechanisms such as reciprocal altruism and group selection for cooperative behavior. An evolutionary approach may also explain differences between groups such as males being less risk-averse than females since males have more variable reproductive success than females. While unsuccessful risk-seeking may limit reproductive success for both sexes, males may potentially increase their reproductive success much more than females from successful risk-seeking. Frequency-dependent selection may explain why people differ in characteristics such as cooperative behavior with cheating becoming an increasingly less successful strategy as the numbers of cheaters increase.\n\nAnother argument is that humans have a poor intuitive grasp of the economics of the current environment which is very different from the ancestral environment. The ancestral environment likely had relatively little trade, division of labor, and capital goods. Technological change was very slow, wealth differences were much smaller, and possession of many available resources were likely zero-sum games where large inequalities were caused by various forms of exploitation. Humans therefore may have poor intuitive understanding the benefits of free trade (causing calls for protectionism), the value of capital goods (making the labor theory of value appealing), and may intuitively undervalue the benefits of technological development.\n\nThere may be a tendency to see the number of available jobs as a zero-sum game with the total number of jobs being fixed which causes people to not realize that minimum wage laws reduce the number of jobs or to believe that an increased number of jobs in other nations necessarily decreases the number of jobs in their own nation. Large income inequality may easily be viewed as due to exploitation rather than as due to individual differences in productivity. This may easily cause poor economic policies, especially since individual voters have few incentives to make the effort of studying societal economics instead of relying on their intuitions since an individual's vote counts for so little and since politicians may be reluctant to take a stand against intuitive views that are incorrect but widely held.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17056476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17056476", "title": "Family Computer Network System", "text": "Family Computer Network System\n\nThe , also known as the Famicom Net System or Famicom Modem, is a video game peripheral for Nintendo's Family Computer, released in September 1988 only in Japan. It uses a card based format, reminiscent to the HuCard for Hudson Soft's and NEC's PC Engine or the Sega Card for the Master System. It allowed the user access to a server that provided live stock trades, game cheats, jokes, weather forecasts, horse betting, and a small amount of downloadable content.\n\nThe experience Nintendo gained with this endeavor led directly to the deployment of the satellite based Satellaview network for the Super Famicom in the early 1990s. Nintendo would eventually engage in Internet based networking, via the 64DD and its accompanying Randnet service, the GameCube, the Game Boy Advance Cable, the Nintendo DS's DS Download Play, the Wii's WiiConnect24 and its shop, the Nintendo DSi's DSi Shop, and the Nintendo Network for the Nintendo 3DS, Wii U, and Switch.\n\nBeginning in mid-1987, Nintendo president Hiroshi Yamauchi requested the exploration of a partnership with the Nomura Securities financial company, to create an information network service in Japan based on the Famicom. Led by Masayuki Uemura, Nintendo Research & Development 2 developed the modem hardware; and Nomura Securities developed the client and server software and the information database. Uemura cautioned that they \"weren't confident that they would be able to make network games entertaining\". Five unreleased prototypes of network-enabled games were developed for the system, including Yamauchi's favorite classic, Go.\n\nThe Famicom Modem began mass production in September 1988. The accompanying proprietary online service was soon launched the same year alongside Nippon Telegraph and Telephone's new DDX-TP telephone gateway for its existing packet switched network. NTT's launch initially suffered reliability problems that were painstakingly assessed by Nintendo at individual users' homes and traced back to the network.\n\nNintendo's sole final application of the Famicom Modem was the 1991 system called Super Mario Club. It was formed for toy shops, where the Famicom was deployed as a networked arcade kiosk, serving consumers with a member-store-created searchable online database of Famicom game reviews. Nintendo performed market research by analyzing users' search behaviors, and directly received user feedback messages.\n\nIn June 1989, Nintendo of America's vice president of marketing Peter Main, said that the Famicom was present in 37% of Japan's households and that its interactive game and stock network based upon the Famicom Modem had been running for some time.\n\nNintendo shipped a lifetime total of 130,000 Famicom Modems. Even after the resolution of stability problems with the NTT's network launch, the Famicom Modem market presence was considered \"weak\" for its whole lifetime for various reasons: product usability; competition from personal computers and other appliances; and the difficult nature of early adoption by the technologically unsavvy financial customer. Uemura stated that the system's most popular application was ultimately home-based horse race betting, with a peak of 100,000 units used and capturing 35% of the online horse betting market even amongst diverse competition from PCs and from dedicated horse betting network terminal appliances.\n\nWanting to replicate and expand upon the progress seen with the Famicom Modem in Japan, Nintendo of America began a series of open announcements in mid-1989 to describe its private talks with AT&T over the prospect of launching an information network service in America in 1990. The plans never materialized.\n\nA modem for NES was tested in the United States by the Minnesota State Lottery. It would have allowed players to buy scratchcards and play the lottery with their NES at home. It was not released in the United States because some parents and legislators voiced concern that minors might learn to play the lottery illegally and anonymously, regardless of assurances from Nintendo to the contrary. Internet-based gambling was banned in Minnesota.\n\nOnline content would later be delivered to Nintendo's customers via the Super Famicom's Satellaview peripheral. Masayuki Uemura, lead designer of the Famicom Modem at Nintendo Research & Development 2, said: \"Our experiences with the Famicom Modem triggered Nintendo’s entrance into the satellite data broadcasting market in April, 1995\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "41536639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41536639", "title": "Gavin Patterson", "text": "Gavin Patterson\n\nGavin Echlin Patterson (born 6 September 1967) is a British marketer who was appointed chief executive of BT Group plc in September 2013. Before joining BT, he worked for Telewest and Procter & Gamble. He is the president of the Advertising Association. Patterson will leave his role as CEO of BT at the end of 2018.\n\nHe was born in Altrincham in 1967, and attended schools in Warrington and Yeovil. He graduated from Emmanuel College, Cambridge with a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering.\n\nHe was European head of marketing at Procter & Gamble for their Pantene line of hair products. In 2000, he joined the cable company Telewest, managing their television services. In 2004, he moved to BT to be the managing director of their consumer division. He launched BT Vision which provided on-demand TV and subsequently was responsible for their broadband offerings such as the optical fibre service, BT Infinity. At BT, his management style was a mix of relaxed, stylish marketing with aggressive cost-cutting. He was known for his flamboyant appearance of romantic black hair and open shirt collars. The previous chief executive, Ian Livingston, said of him, \"...one button undone was fine, two was a bit racy, and three was Gavin.\" This marketing-executive style was novel and successful in the conservative corporate culture of BT and, as a high-flyer, he joined the board of BT in 2008.\n\nHe was appointed chief executive of the BT Group in 2013 to replace Ian Livingston who was ennobled to join the government as Baron Livingston of Parkhead and Minister of State for Trade and Investment.\n\nIn August 2013, he was ranked as number 26 in \"The Guardian\"'s Media 100 2013 – a listing of \"the most powerful people in television, radio, newspapers, magazines, digital media, media business, advertising, marketing and PR\"; it was his first appearance in this list. In December 2013, \"Computer Weekly\" ranked him as number 8 in its UKtech50 for 2013 — \"the most influential people in UK IT\".\n\nHe was BT's representative on the Confederation of British Industry (CBI)'s Climate Change Board, 2008-[2013], and joined the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)'s Executive Committee effective 1 January 2015, after the company joined WBCSD in April 2014.\n\nOn 25 October 2018, it was announced that Philip Jansen, the CEO of Worldpay, would succeedi him as CEO of BT, with effect from 1 January 2019, as \"a change of leadership was needed\".\n\nHe is a fellow of the Marketing Society and a member of the Thirty Club for advertising professionals. He was appointed president of the Advertising Association in 2011. He is a non-executive director of British Airways, a trustee of the British Museum, and is on the board of Cambridge Judge Business School.\n\nHis wife, Karen, is a fashion designer who worked for Donna Karan. The couple have four children and now live in Surrey.\n\nHe has supported Liverpool Football Club since his early years in nearby Warrington.\n"}
{"id": "6631035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6631035", "title": "General assignment", "text": "General assignment\n\nA general assignment or assignment is a concept in bankruptcy law that has a similar meaning, due to common law ancestry, in different jurisdictions, but wide dispersion in practical application. The \"assignment for the benefit of creditors\", also known as an ABC or AFBC is an alternative to bankruptcy, which is a \"general assignment\"/\"assignment\" concept.\n\nIn the United states, a general assignment or an assignment for the benefit of creditors is simply a contract whereby the insolvent entity (\"Assignor\") transfers legal and equitable title, as well as custody and control of its property, to a third party (\"Assignee\") in trust, to apply the proceeds of sale to the assignor's creditors in accord with priorities established by law.\n\nAn assignment for the benefit of creditors is a relatively well-established common law tool and is one alternative to a bankruptcy. An assignment for the benefit of creditors is designed to save time and expense by concluding the affairs of a bankrupt company. The assignment for the benefit of creditors is a state form of bankruptcy action versus a federal form of bankruptcy action. The assignment for the benefit of creditor’s process is similar in character to a Chapter 7 bankruptcy and parallels some of the same procedures, but is not an actual \"bankruptcy\" in the form the word is used in the United States.\n\nThe assignment for the benefit of creditors is a common law contract between the board of directors and the assignee in which the board \"assigns\" the assets and liabilities of the company to the assignee, a third party. The assignment for the benefit of creditors contract is usually recorded the public record at a town, a city, a county or a state level. Each state will differ on recording requirements for the assignment for the benefit of creditors contract. \n\nThe physical filing of the assignment usually occurs after: the board of directors has spoken with local insolvency counsel; a board of directors authorization of some nature has been enacted; an appropriate assignee chosen; and the contract has been written. The assignee's primary goal is to try to make the creditors whole. The assignee performs duties similar to a trustee under federal bankruptcy. The assignee has a similar, if not equivalent, fiduciary role as the bankruptcy trustee. The assignee has the primary responsibility to: liquidate the assets of the company; vette creditor claims; and issue a dividend to the creditors. The creditors are the assignee's top priority, not shareholders. Shareholders by definition have a residual claim on assets once all creditors are satisfied. \n\nThe assignee, once the assignment process is completed, issues a dividend. The dividend is derived from the sale of assets, collection of receivables, recovery of the bankrupt company’s assets and cash. Certain creditors may or may not receive a dividend. The assignee's hope is to provide a one-to-one redemption of the creditor’s claims; however, this depends on the amount of cash an assignee can marshal in the liquidation process. \n\nThe claims process is similar to a standard bankruptcy action in which creditors submit claims to the assignee for review and acceptance. The acceptance and vetting of claims is an important process to ensure that no one creditor has overstated their claim. There are rare occasions in which an assignee may issue a non-cash dividend as part of the overall dividend to creditors on their claims, but a dividend of this type is not common. If all the creditors are made whole, shareholders would then have a claim on the remainder of the dividend. This holds true only if there are no other classes of equity that have priority senior to the shareholders.\n\nThe order of creditor’s claims usually follows the normal bankruptcy order prescribed in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, generally secured, and unsecured in descending order. The assignee, depending on the specific state law may use Chapter 7, Title 11, United States Code as needed. Neither the federal bankruptcy court nor a state court usually oversee this process, however the assignee is subject in most cases to a look back provision within the state the assignment took place.\n\nA Federal Bankruptcy Court judge in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy must approve the sale of the bankrupt company's assets, thus adding time and expense on to the entire liquidation process. The assets sold in an assignment for the benefit of creditor process do not usually require a judge's intervention. It is this removal of the court from the liquidation process which increases the speed of the assets sold in an assignment process. This is one substantial difference from a regular bankruptcy.\n\nSecured and unsecured creditors constitute the creditor body. Both secured and unsecured creditors are ahead of shareholders as noted earlier. A secured creditor is a creditor, who has a priority claim on an asset or assets of a company. A lien on the specific asset or assets places the secured creditor's claim ahead of the unsecured creditor. Once a secured creditor is satisfied, the unsecured creditor is then the next priority. This is again the normal order of priority in a bankruptcy.\n\nIf there has been a determination by company management and interested parties such as a secured creditor that even after restructuring, a \"going concern\" may still not viable. A secured creditor or group of secured creditors frequently may encourage the company's senior management to pursue this liquidation mechanism. Secured creditor(s) may encourage this type of action to relieve themselves of the legal costs and risks associated with the foreclosure and sale of its collateral. One specific risk a secured creditor wants to avoid is preference or the perception of preference in the liquidation process (see fraudulent transfer). \n\nIn situations where the liquidation value of the assets exceeds a secured creditor's lien, the assignee is not normally required to obtain the consent of a secured creditor or any other creditor prior to the assignment process. Cooperation of the secured creditor may however affect the assignee's ability to liquidate an asset. An assignee in practice may obtain the consent of the secured creditors in advance of the assignment to ensure that the assignee can liquidate the asset or assets in a timely manner without a secured party stopping or holding up the assignment process. Secured party consent in this case is optional, not necessary.\n\nIn situations where the liquidation value of the assets is less than a secured creditor's lien, the assignment process can be done, however a vast number of legal questions need to be reconciled before the assignment process can possibly be initiated. There unfortunately is no concise answer in this particular situation. \n\nSecured creditors may in certain instances assume the senior management roles within the bankrupt company, however noted earlier this situation occurs when the secured creditor(s) have foreclosed on their lien. Large secured creditors again may influence the decision making process, but that secured creditor can not enter into that contract on behalf of the bankrupt company. Only the bankrupt company's senior management and/or board of directors have the power to do an assignment.\n\nThe dividend is hopefully the payout that the assignee issues, once all creditors' claims have been vetted and all the assets have been sold. The assignee hopes to generate enough cash to provide a one for one redemption of a creditor's claims. This is the hope the reality varies vastly, depending on the price the assets fetched when sold. Most dividends are in the form of cash back to the creditor, but not necessarily all. There may not even be a dividend in certain instance, thus no creditor receives any payment. There is no way to determine the cash value of an asset in the assignment process, regardless of past estimates. Tangible assets cash value can usually, but not always, be reasonably estimated. Intangible assets such as intellectual property or processes are much more difficult to evaluate.\n\nNoted earlier this is a state form of bankruptcy, not federal form. The assignment process or any bankruptcy process for that matter is a legal matter. The state attributes of an assignment process may be understood by any attorney however a local/regional bankruptcy attorney in the specific state usually is best equipped to handle the legal end of the process for the company making the assignment. This is not asserted to diminish an attorney’s capabilities, but to stress the legal niche that this legal instrument falls within, bankruptcy. Non legal staff familiar with bankruptcy and the assignment process can also affect the speed validity of the process.\n\nThe general rule is that any debtor may make an assignment. This would include any individual, partnership, corporation or limited liability company that owes anything to anyone. Any debtor owning property has the common law right to make an assignment.\n\nIn other common law countries, general assignments usually refer to any general assignment of existing or future book debts by a natural person (including, in some cases, partnerships). A general assignment made by a natural person who is subsequently adjudged bankrupt is void against the trustee in bankruptcy as regards any book debts which have not been paid prior to the presentation of the bankruptcy petition. \n\nThe definition of book debts includes \"debts which in the ordinary course of business would be entered in a well-kept trade book\", future debts and future rents under a hire purchase agreement. Bills of exchange also fall within the definition of book debts, but a bank balance does not.\n\nUnder (for example) English law, any general assignment, either absolute or by way of security, of book debts is void unless registered under the Bills of Sale Act 1878. A trustee would not be able to attack an assignment under this section which relates to debts due from specified debtors or debts becoming due under specified contracts or where the debts were assigned as part of a \"bona fide\" transfer of a business or the assignment is for the benefit of creditors generally.\n"}
{"id": "40945103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40945103", "title": "Georges Marquet", "text": "Georges Marquet\n\nGeorges Marquet (18 September 1886, Jemeppe-sur-Meuse - 27 March 1947, Nice) was a Belgian hotel manager and owner of many luxurious hotels in Europe. He created the \"Compagnie Internationale des Grands Hôtels Européens\", which later would be part of the Compagnie Internationale des wagons-lits group, created by his compatriote and inventor (among other things) of the Orient-Express, the Belgian Georges Nagelmackers.\n\nAfter he had bought the most luxurious hotels of Madrid, Spain, namely, the Ritz Madrid and the Palace Hotel (\"today called Westin Palace\"), his son lived in Madrid and was in charge of the Ritz Madrid direction.\nGeorges Marquet was a member of the Belgian Parliament for the Liberal Party, from 1929 until 1936.\n"}
{"id": "20358871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20358871", "title": "Gold Spike (property)", "text": "Gold Spike (property)\n\nGold Spike (formerly Gold Spike Hotel & Casino) is a bar, lounge, residential building, and former boutique 112-room, seven floor hotel. It is connected with the Oasis at the Gold Spike, a 50-room three floor hotel located in downtown Las Vegas. It was owned by entrepreneur Tony Hsieh and his Downtown Project, having bought it from The Siegel Group; and the casino was operated by Golden Gaming.\n\nHsieh closed the casino on April 14, 2013. After a three-week remodel, Gold Spike re-opened the casino as a restaurant and bar on May 6, 2013. The hotel portion of the building was recently converted into permanent and temporary workforce housing for Downtown Project, entrepreneurs, and Zappos; Oasis hotel is a separate building on the same property.\n\nIt originally opened in 1976 as the 112-room \"Rendezvous\". In 1983 Jackie Gaughan purchased the property after it had been closed for several months.\n\nThe Gold Spike for years has been known as an inexpensive hotel with few amenities.\n\nOn December 6, 2002, Gaughan agreed to sell the Gold Spike and three other casinos to Barrick Gaming. This sale, along with several other downtown Las Vegas hotel/casinos, was completed in 2004, for a combined total of about $82 million.\nBarrick Gaming Corp was in partnership with Tamares Group. After the purchase, management discontinued the table games and only offered slot machines. In a few years the property was offered for sale.\nOn July 23, 2007, Greg Covin bought the property for $15.6 million with the intention of turning it into a boutique hotel.\n\nHe sold it on February 4, 2008 for $21 million to The Siegel Group.\n\nThe Siegel Group set out to completely renovate the property and combine it with an old and forgotten 52-room motel located next to the property. As one author wrote, the Gold Spike now has \"Quartz walls, tile floors, wood accents, and new everything\", making it \"a very modern boutique hotel in the heart of downtown\". The first floor, containing the gaming floor, the bar, and the restaurant, was completely renovated by February 2009.\n\nBy April 2010, all guest floors and the exterior of the hotel has been completely remodeled and renovated. In May 2010, the Oasis Pool opened, giving Gold Spike a swimming pool.\n\nIn April 2013, it was reported that the property's debt had been acquired by Tony Hsieh's Downtown Project, a campaign to revitalize downtown Las Vegas.\n\nSiegel then announced that it had sold the Gold Spike to the Downtown Project, and that the casino would close on April 14. Siegel retained rights to the Gold Spike name, and said that the company needed to dispose of smaller properties on its way to owning larger casinos on the Strip. Hsieh was reported to be considering several ideas for the property, including a boutique hotel, specialty retail space, or a club, but ruled out a casino, saying that he was \"trying to help build a community\". In 2014, Gold Spike reopened the former casino area as a bar and lounge with social games. Gold Spike renovated its top floor into a penthouse suite for the thirty-first season of the MTV television series \"Real World\", \"\". This suite can now be rented by the public and it is in the Gold Spike property and not The Oasis.\n\nThe adjacent 3-story motel was originally built in 1962 as a 57-room Travel Inn Motel. The property was abandoned, becoming a blight between the Fremont Street Experience and Las Vegas City Hall. The Siegel Group purchased this property in August 2007 for $5 million and started making plans to renovate it and reopen the property. Plans were put on hold when they purchased the neighboring Gold Spike. Finally, by April 2010, the rooms had been completely renovated and renamed \"The Oasis at The Gold Spike\" and connected to the Gold Spike via an outdoor lounge and walkway. After a reconfiguration of the property, it was left with 50-rooms, which have been modernized and turned into bungalow suites.\n\nThe Oasis at the Gold Spike had the distinction of being the only downtown hotel with a Las Vegas Blvd. address. In May 2010, the City of Las Vegas changed the entire Gold Spike property to this address.\n"}
{"id": "12171481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12171481", "title": "Gonzalo Brockmann", "text": "Gonzalo Brockmann\n\nGonzalo Brockmann is a Mexican business executive. He has served as president of Best Western Hotels of Mexico, Central America and Ecuador since 1985. Prior to that he was president of Hostales de América.\n\nHe has held different positions in the \"\"Mexican Association of Hotels and Motels\" in Mexico City, the \"National Chamber of Commercial Chambers\"\", and the Young Presidents' Organization.\n\nBrockmann holds an MBA degree from the University of Texas and a B.A. in Administration from the Universidad Anáhuac in Mexico City.\n\n"}
{"id": "44960022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44960022", "title": "Herman Aguinis", "text": "Herman Aguinis\n\nHerman Aguinis (born 1966) is a researcher and professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management. He is the Avram Tucker Distinguished Scholar and Professor of Management at the George Washington University School of Business in Washington, D.C. He has been elected for the five-year presidency track of the Academy of Management (AOM) and is serving as AOM Program Chair Elect & Vice President Elect, Program Chair & Vice President, President Elect, President, and Past President during 2018-2023. Prior to moving to Washington D.C. in 2016, he was the John F. Mee Chair of Management and the Founding Director of the Institute for Global Organizational Effectiveness in the Kelley School of Business at Indiana University.\n\nHerman Aguinis was born in Rio Cuarto, Cordoba (Argentina). He is the son of the Argentine author Marcos Aguinis and University of Buenos Aires School of Law professor Ana Maria \"Marita\" Aguinis (deceased). He attended high school at the Colegio Nacional de Buenos Aires before receiving a Bachelors’ and master's degree in psychology from the University of Buenos Aires. He spent part of his high school years in New York City, but following his schooling in Argentina, he moved to the United States permanently to study Industrial and Organizational Psychology, earning a Master’s and a PhD degree from the University at Albany, State University of New York in 1993.\n\nHis research, teaching, and consulting are about the acquisition and deployment of talent in organizations and organizational research methods. He has written extensively on the topics of star performance, corporate social responsibility, domestic and international diversity, leadership, staffing, training and development, performance management, and innovative methodological approaches for developing and testing theories. His research has been featured by the media worldwide, including most recently the Wall Street Journal, and in U.S. Supreme Court cases. He served as Editor-in-Chief of Organizational Research Methods (2005-2007) and has served or serves on the editorial board of 26 journals including Journal of Applied Psychology, Personnel Psychology (journal), Journal of Management, and Journal of International Business Studies.\n\nHe has delivered more than 260 keynote addresses and presentations at professional conferences, delivered about 130 invited presentations in all seven continents except for Antarctica, and raised about $5MM for his research and teaching endeavors from private foundations and federal sources (e.g., National Science Foundation).\n\nHis research has placed him as one of the most influential and prolific contemporary management professors in the world. As of November 2018, he is among the world’s 96 most impactful researchers in economics and business as demonstrated by production of multiple highly cited papers that rank in the top 1% by citations for field and year in Web of Science (2006-2016). An article published in August 2018 ranked him among the top 1% of the top 1% (i.e., #34 out of about 500,000) most highly cited researchers in the fields of economics and business based on articles published between 2004 and 2015 according to the Web of Science Essential Science Indicators database. His work has received more than 23,000 Google Scholar citations, and he has more than 26,000 LinkedIn followers.\n\nHe is a fellow of the Academy of Management (and also served as Deputy Dean of the Academy of Management Fellows until August 2018), American Psychological Association, Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology, and Association for Psychological Science and has received many awards such as:\n\n\nHerman Aguinis is the author of several published books and more than 150 peer-reviewed journal articles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "896725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=896725", "title": "Illusory promise", "text": "Illusory promise\n\nIn contract law, an illusory promise is one that courts will not enforce. This is in contrast with a contract, which is a promise that courts will enforce. A promise may be illusory for a number of reasons. In common law countries this usually results from failure or lack of consideration (see also consideration under English law).\n\nIllusory promises are so named because they merely hold the illusion of contract. For example, a promise of the form, \"I will give you ten dollars if I feel like it,\" is purely illusory and will not be enforced as a contract.\n\nIt is a general principle of contract law that courts should err on the side of enforcing contracts. Parties entering into the arrangement presumably had the intention of forming an enforceable contract, and so courts generally attempt to follow this intention.\n\nA promise conditioned upon an event within the promisor's control is not illusory if the promisor also \"impliedly promises to make reasonable effort to bring the event about or to use good faith and honest judgment in determining whether or not it has in fact occurred.\"\n\nMethods of finding potentially illusory contracts enforceable include:\n\nMany contracts include \"satisfaction clauses\", in which a promisor can refuse to pay if he isn't subjectively satisfied with the promisee's performance. Strictly speaking, this is an illusory promise, since the promisor has no actual legal burden to pay if he chooses not to. However, courts will generally imply in law that the promisor must act in good faith and reject the deal only if he is genuinely dissatisfied. As another example, if a contract promises a promisee a certain percentage of the proceeds of a promisor's business activities, this is illusory, since the promisor doesn't have to do anything: any percentage of zero is zero. However, courts may find that the promisor made an implied promise to use reasonable efforts to try to make money, and cite him for breach of contract if he does absolutely nothing. The U.C.C. in contracts exclusive to both sides requires \"best efforts\" in such contracts. This may be read to be the same as a good faith effort, but is seen by some courts as a higher duty.\n\nJudges will often infer terms into the contract that the parties did not explicitly cite. For instance, in the \"satisfaction clause\" case, judges might infer that the parties intended a \"reasonableness test\" - that the clause could be satisfied if a reasonable person would be satisfied by the promisee's performance, regardless of whether the promisor himself asserts he is satisfied. (This interpretation is often used in cases in which a performance can be objectively evaluated, such as with the construction of a warehouse; the implied-in-law interpretation above is preferred where satisfaction is more subjective, as with the painting of a portrait.)\n\nMany judges would consider the \"bargaining for a percentage of the proceeds\" example above an enforceable contract, even without an implied-in-fact or implied-in-law good faith term. They would view the opportunity to enter into a business relationship to itself be acceptable consideration. Put differently, the mere possibility that the promisor would do business is a valuable product of the bargain even if he does not do anything. Of course, if the promisor entered into the relationship purely with the intent of fraudulently harming the promisee, he could be cited for fraud or bad faith principles that apply to all contracts.\n\nSome websites' \"terms and conditions\" may be deemed an illusory contract and unenforceable if the language can be changed at any time by the company without notifying users and giving them a chance to accept the new changes.\n"}
{"id": "42487364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42487364", "title": "Jack Bendat", "text": "Jack Bendat\n\nJack Bendat (born 6 May 1925) is an American-born Australian businessman and owner of the Perth Wildcats basketball team. He was previously involved in construction and media businesses with longtime partner Kerry Stokes, but is now involved in philanthropic and sporting interests.\n\nJack Bendat was born in the United States and migrated with his family from California to Perth in 1966.\n\nBendat, along with partners Kerry Stokes and Kevin Merifield, were involved in the development of shopping centres in Perth and regional Western Australia. Bendat appeared at #70 on BRW's 2014 Rich List.\n\nBendat's business accomplishments include building Bunbury Plaza, one of the first country shopping centres in Western Australia, and establishing country media service GWN (now GWN7). He went on to work on development of 11 shopping centres around Western Australia.\n\nBendat is married and has two children.\n\nOne of Bendat's major contributions has been the Bendat Family Comprehensive Cancer Centre at the St John of God Subiaco Hospital. Bendat's contribution to the community was recognised as WA Citizen of the Year in 2002. Bendat was also made a member of the Order of Australia in 2009.\n\nBendat bought the Perth Wildcats basketball club in 2007. In his time as owner, the club has won four NBL championships: 2009–10, 2013–14 and 2015–16, 2016–17 and expanded significantly, drawing larger crowds to their new home court at RAC Arena. In April 2015, Bendat purchased the licence for the Perth WNBL team in the West Coast Waves and renamed them the Perth Lynx, and the following month, on his 90th Birthday, the WA Basketball Centre was renamed the \"Bendat Basketball Centre\" in his honour.\n"}
{"id": "18797612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18797612", "title": "James Arthur Banks", "text": "James Arthur Banks\n\nJames Arthur Banks (1897 – 1 December 1967) was a Scottish civil engineer.\n\nBanks was born in Glasgow in 1897. He attended Woodside Higher Grade School in Glasgow. During World War I he served in the Royal Marine Engineers, from 1914 to 1918.\n\nHe initially trained as a structural engineer and then joined Babtie, Shaw and Morton in 1921 to train as a civil engineer. He worked in England and the USA and returned to Babtie, Shaw and Morton in 1929. His speciality was the design and construction of dams for water supply and power generation, commencing with Afton Reservoir. He became a partner of the firm in 1931 and was senior partner from 1940 to 1966.\n\nHe was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire in 1944. He was appointed an officer of the same order in the New Year Honours of 1947 and a Commander of the Royal Victorian Order on 31 May 1963. From 1961 Banks was chairman of the International Commission on Large Dams and was Consulting Engineer to Queen Elizabeth II for the Balmoral Estate and a member of the Court of the University of Strathclyde. He served as president of the Institution of Civil Engineers from November 1965 to November 1966 and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh on 6 March 1967.\n\nHe died on 1 December 1967.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "17716253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17716253", "title": "Janet Elizabeth Dyer", "text": "Janet Elizabeth Dyer\n\nJanet Elizabeth Dyer is an American author and business journalist. The greater part of her work appears in Strategy+Business magazine but she has also been a contributor to such publications as Harvard Business Review. Her work has also been published under the names Jan Dyer, Jan Dyer Torsilieri, and Janet Dyer Torsilieri.\n\nMs. Dyer received a Bachelor of Arts from the University of California, Davis in 1983, the degree of Master of Business Administration from Yale University in 1988, and in 2003 was listed as a candidate for the degree of Master of Divinity at Princeton Theological Seminary. She graduated from Princeton Theological Seminary with a Master of Divinity in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "42845893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42845893", "title": "José Ferré", "text": "José Ferré\n\nJosé Antonio Ferré Aguayo (September 12, 1902 – September 15, 1990) was a Puerto Rican businessman, industrialist and government official. He was a brother of Luis Ferré, who served as Governor of Puerto Rico, and Isolina Ferré, the \"Mother Teresa of Puerto Rico\". Ferré was also the father of Maurice Ferré, a former six-term mayor of Miami, Florida.\n\nFerré was born in Ponce and the son of Cuban born Antonio Ferré Bacallao. After attending Morristown-School (now Morristown-Beard School) in Morristown, New Jersey, he earned his bachelor's degree in business administration at Boston University in Boston, Massachusetts in 1924. Ferré later served on the Board of Trustees of the school alongside Edward Kennedy. He earned his master's degree in business administration from the University of Miami.\n\nDuring the years following World War II, Ferré grew his wealth by purchasing bankrupt glass, cement, and carton factories. At one point, his family empire owned 80 corporations in Puerto Rico, the United States, Venezuela, and Panama.\n\nIn 1965, Ferré's real estate company, the Ferré Florida Corporation, financed the construction of the 30-story New World Tower in the Central Business District in Miami. At the time, the building, which cost $6 million to construct, stood as the tallest in Florida. Its construction represented part of a broader effort to revitalize Miami.\n\nIn 1990, U.S. Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen from Florida's 27th congressional district honored the legacy and impact of Ferré during remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. The tribute recognized Ferré's vision and industrial pursuits.\n"}
{"id": "32997143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32997143", "title": "Lev Khasis", "text": "Lev Khasis\n\nLev Khasis (Лев Аронович Хасис; born 5 June 1966, in Kuybyshev, now Samara, RSFSR, USSR) was the first CEO of the X5 Retail Group (2006-2011).\nVice-Chairman of Jet.com, Inc until the company was acquired by Walmart in September 2016, Board member of Boxed.com, Board Member of LendingHome.com since February 2017. \nChairman of the board of Evotor.ru since February 2017.\nChairman of the board of DocDoc.ru\n\nCOO and First deputy CEO of Sberbank since 2013.\n\nIn 1989 he graduated from Kuybyshev Aviation Institute, the aircraft engineering faculty.\nIn 1995 he graduated from banking faculty of the Moscow Financial Academy. \nIn 2001 he earned a Master of Law at Saint Petersburg University of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia, Law School.\n\nIn July 2006 he received his Ph.D in Economics from the Institute for System Analysis at the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nHe served in various roles in business and the academy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "283083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283083", "title": "Limited liability company", "text": "Limited liability company\n\nA limited liability company (LLC) is the US-specific form of a private limited company. It is a business structure that can combine the pass-through taxation of a partnership or sole proprietorship with the limited liability of a corporation. An LLC is not a corporation in and of itself; it is a legal form of a company that provides limited liability to its owners in many jurisdictions. LLCs are well-known for the flexibility that they provide to business owners; depending on the situation, an LLC may elect to use corporate tax rules instead of being treated as a partnership, and, under certain circumstances, LLCs may be organized as not-for-profit. In certain U.S. states (for example, Texas), businesses that provide professional services requiring a state professional license, such as legal or medical services, may not be allowed to form an LLC but may be required to form a similar entity called a professional limited liability company (PLLC).\n\nA limited liability company (LLC) is a hybrid legal entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC is a type of unincorporated association distinct from a corporation. The primary characteristic an LLC shares with a corporation is limited liability, and the primary characteristic it shares with a partnership is the availability of pass-through income taxation. It is often more flexible than a corporation, and it is well-suited for companies with a single owner.\n\nAlthough LLCs and corporations both possess some analogous features, the basic terminology commonly associated with each type of legal entity, at least within the United States, is sometimes different. When an LLC is formed, it is said to be \"organized,” not \"incorporated\" or \"chartered,” and its founding document is likewise known as its \"articles of organization,\" instead of its \"articles of incorporation\" or its \"corporate charter.” Internal operations of an LLC are further governed by its \"operating agreement,\" rather than its \"bylaws.\" The owner of beneficial rights in an LLC is known as a \"member,\" rather than a \"shareholder.” Additionally, ownership in an LLC is represented by a \"membership interest\" or an \"LLC interest\" (sometimes measured in \"membership units\" or just \"units\" and at other times simply stated only as percentages), rather than represented by \"shares of stock\" or just \"shares\" (with ownership measured by the number of shares held by each shareholder). Similarly, when issued in physical rather than electronic form, a document evidencing ownership rights in an LLC is called a \"membership certificate\" rather than a \"stock certificate\".\n\nIn the absence of express statutory guidance, most American courts have held that LLC members are subject to the same common law alter ego piercing theories as corporate shareholders. However, it is more difficult to pierce the LLC veil because LLCs do not have many formalities to maintain. As long as the LLC and the members do not commingle funds, it is difficult to pierce the LLC veil. Membership interests in LLCs and partnership interests are also afforded a significant level of protection through the charging order mechanism. The charging order limits the creditor of a debtor-partner or a debtor-member to the debtor's share of distributions, without conferring on the creditor any voting or management rights.\n\nLimited liability company members may, in certain circumstances, also incur a personal liability in cases where distributions to members render the LLC insolvent.\n\nThe first state to enact a law authorizing limited liability companies was Wyoming in 1977. The form did not become immediately popular, in part because of uncertainties in tax treatment by the Internal Revenue Service. After an IRS ruling in 1988 that Wyoming LLCs could be taxed as partnerships, other states began enacting LLC statutes. By 1996, all 50 states had LLC statutes.\n\nLLCs are subject to fewer regulations than traditional corporations, and thus may allow members to create a more flexible management structure than is possible with other corporate forms. As long as it remains within the confines of state law, the operating agreement is responsible for the flexibility the members of the LLC have in deciding how their LLC will be governed. State statutes typically provide automatic or \"default\" rules for how an LLC will be governed unless the operating agreement provides otherwise.\n\nThe limited liability company (\"LLC\") has grown to become one of the most prevalent business forms in the United States. Even the use of a single member LLC affords greater protection for the assets of the member, as compared to operating as an unincorporated entity.\n\nEffective August 1, 2013, the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act provides that the managers and controlling members of a limited liability company owe fiduciary duties of care and loyalty to the limited liability company and its members. Under the amendment (prompted by the Delaware Supreme Court's decision in \"Gatz Properties, LLC v. Auriga Capital Corp\"), parties to an LLC remain free to expand, restrict, or eliminate fiduciary duties in their LLC agreements (subject to the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing).\n\nUnder 6 Del. C. Section 18-101(7), a Delaware LLC operating agreement can be written, oral or implied. It sets forth member capital contributions, ownership percentages, and management structure. Like a prenuptial agreement, an operating agreement can avoid future disputes between members by addressing buy-out rights, valuation formulas, and transfer restrictions. The written LLC operating agreement should be signed by all of its members.\n\nFor U.S. federal income tax purposes, an LLC is treated by default as a pass-through entity. If there is only one member in the company, the LLC is treated as a \"disregarded entity\" for tax purposes (unless another tax status is elected), and an individual owner would report the LLC's income or loss on Schedule C of his or her individual tax return. Thus, income from the LLC is taxed at the individual tax rates. The default tax status for LLCs with multiple members is as a partnership, which is required to report income and loss on IRS Form 1065. Under partnership tax treatment, each member of the LLC, as is the case for all partners of a partnership, annually receives a Form K-1 reporting the member's distributive share of the LLC's income or loss that is then reported on the member's individual income tax return. On the other hand, income from corporations is taxed twice: once at the corporate entity level and again when distributed to shareholders. Thus, more tax savings often result if a business formed as an LLC rather than a corporation.\n\nAn LLC with either single or multiple members may elect to be taxed as a corporation through the filing of IRS Form 8832. After electing corporate tax status, an LLC may further elect to be treated as a regular C corporation (taxation of the entity's income prior to any dividends or distributions to the members and then taxation of the dividends or distributions once received as income by the members) or as an S corporation (entity level income and loss passes through to the members). Some commentators have recommended an LLC taxed as a S-corporation as the best possible small business structure. It combines the simplicity and flexibility of an LLC with the tax benefits of an S-corporation (self-employment tax savings).\n\n\nAlthough there is no statutory requirement for an operating agreement in most jurisdictions, members of a multiple member LLC who operate without one may encounter problems. Unlike state laws regarding stock corporations, which are very well developed and provide for a variety of governance and protective provisions for the corporation and its shareholders, most states do not dictate detailed governance and protective provisions for the members of a limited liability company. Thus, in the absence of such statutory provisions, the members of an LLC must establish governance and protective provisions pursuant to an operating agreement or similar governing document.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52678195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52678195", "title": "List of economic advisors to Donald Trump", "text": "List of economic advisors to Donald Trump\n\nAs part of Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign, various economists and businesspeople have served both in a formal and an informal capacity, to advise Trump on macroeconomics and associated government policy decisions. During the transition to the presidency, Trump gained additional advisors, and after the inauguration some of his advisors will officially become part of the Trump administration (including the NEC, NTC, advisors, czars, counselors, OMB, CEA, Treasury, Commerce, USTR, SBA, SEC, and the Fed) while others will remain in the private sector as informal advisors with varying degrees of influence.\n\nTrump released initial details of his economic policies when his campaign officially began in June 2015, and more details during the first Republican debates which began in August 2015. Although critical of certain aspects of Trump's early economic plans, especially increasing tariffs as opposed to free trade policies, Larry Kudlow and Steve Moore would eventually agree to join the Trump campaign as advisors. Although most presidential candidates had announced a team of formal economic advisors by October 2015, at the time Trump still primarily relied upon his business background to inform his economic plan (Carly Fiorina was the other candidate who relied primarily upon her own background in business in the early phases of the campaign). In addition to his own business expertise, Trump had a network of contacts that sometimes served as informal economic advisors during his campaign, including Carl Icahn. Even as late as July 2016, however, Kudlow and Moore were still not official advisors, despite having already helped craft some of Trump's policy-positions related to taxation for instance. \nTrump released a list of his campaign's official economic advisers in August 2016, which was significantly anti-establishment and therefore included few people with any governmental experience, yet at the same time aimed to include some of the elites of business and finance, primarily people with well-known names. \n\nAlthough most of the names were new, existing Trump advisers David Malpass, Peter Navarro, Stephen Moore, and Dan DiMicco were also on the list, formally led by Stephen Miller, the national policy director, and directly led by deputy policy director Dan Kowalski. The Trump'16 finance director Steven Mnuchin was also listed, and played a role in helping coordinate the group. Many of the names on the original list, or on the subsequent expansions thereof, received media attention as potential appointees to the presidential Council of Economic Advisers, or in other Trump administration roles. As of August 2016, Trump's economic advisors included: \n\n\nSeveral of the advisors were major donors to Trump's presidential campaign. \n\nAt first, only one of Trump's initial list of a dozen official advisors, Peter Navarro, had a PhD in economics. Although he had been in contact with Trump since 2011, Navarro had never met nor spoken with Trump directly in August 2016, but began to meet with Trump in person late in the 2016 campaign. A few days after Navarro was announced, Trump added Judy Shelton, an economist with a Ph.D in business administration to his team.\n\nAs of December 2016, many of the advisors during the campaign listed above are under consideration for cabinet-level roles or other high-level roles in the Trump administration. (For instance, Navarro is a contender for the CEA chair, and Shelton is a contender for Fed Vice-Chair.) \n\nIn addition to his statutory advisory groups, Trump is also organizing efforts to directly communicate with business leaders. \n\nBillionaire venture capitalist Peter Thiel originally backed fellow Californian and tech industry candidate Carly Fiorina, but implicitly endorsed Trump in May 2016, then spoke at the Republican National Convention that July. Thiel donated over a million dollars in October 2016. A few days after the general election, Thiel joined the executive committee of the Trump transition team, although Thiel said he was not seeking a full-time Trump administration position. \n\nIn addition to bringing some of his tech industry contacts to the Trump team, Thiel, along with Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner and incoming White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, helped organize a technology-CEO meeting in December 2016 for Trump and Pence, as well as a handful of appointees and transition team members.\n\nAirbnb was also invited to attend the tech-CEO meeting, but their CEO was traveling internationally that week.\n\nThe details of the December 2016 meeting were not made public, but according to anonymous sources, reforming the H1B visa program was discussed.\n\nOf the above, Stephen Bannon resigned on 18 August 2017; Reince Prebus was fired on 11 March 2017.\n\nIn addition to the tech-industry group, there is also a more general business advisory group being formed. Billionaire Stephen Schwarzman of Blackstone organized the business advisory group, which also includes: \n\n\nIt is unclear whether Trump or his transition team have personally met with this advisory group, but media reports indicate that some of the members were considered for cabinet-level positions in his administration (including Dimon as a potential treasury secretary, Cosgrove as potential secretary of veterans affairs, Warsh for a potential Federal Reserve role).\n\nDuring his campaign, Trump had several dozen agricultural advisors.\n\n \n\n \n"}
{"id": "1743401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1743401", "title": "Lithium Technologies", "text": "Lithium Technologies\n\nLithium Technologies is a San Francisco-based provider of software that allows businesses to connect with their customers on social media and digital channels. Lithium was founded in 2001 as a spin-out from GX Media, which created technologies for professional rankings and tournaments and now hosts a number of popular gaming sites. The company's founders include Dennis Fong, Lyle Fong, Michel Thouati, Kirk Yokomizo, John Joh, Nader Alizadeh, Michael Yang, and Matt Ayres.\n\nThe Lithium platform comprises a set of products for digital marketing and social customer support, including Lithium Communities, which act as the hub for a brand's digital conversations; Lithium Response, a social customer care tool; and Lithium Reach a social media management tool. Klout data powers the Lithium platform with its proprietary algorithms and volume of data with over 750M scored profiles.\"\n\nLithium's SaaS platform combines online customer community applications such as forums, blogs, innovation management, product reviews, and tribal knowledge bases with the broader social web and traditional CRM business processes, resulting in a wide range of online customer interaction methods. Stemming from its gaming roots, the platform incorporates elaborate rating systems for contributors, with ranks, badges, and \"kudos counts\".\n\nLithium hosts an annual user conference, LiNC (Lithium Networking Conference) designed to give digital strategists a deeper understanding of trends in social customer engagement. Since its inception in 2008, the event has grown 1,100% to 900+ attendees in 2016. In 2017, the company held a series of localized LiNC events in cities like London, San Francisco, and Sydney.\n\nIn late 2008, Lithium completed a detailed, time-series analysis of up to a decade's worth of proprietary data that represents billions of interactions, millions of users, and scores of communities. This research, coupled with the company's expertise in planning, deploying, and managing customer communities, enabled Lithium to identify and calculate key factors that contributed to a new standard for measuring community health – the Community Health Index.\n\nAt the beginning of 2010, Lithium announced over 100 percent growth in annual recurring revenue, coupled with securing $18MM in Series C financing. On May 11, 2010, Lithium acquired social media monitoring (SMM) provider, Scout Labs, whose service allows brands to engage with their customers beyond the community and monitor, map, and measure customer conversations on the social web.\n\nIn August 2011, Lithium announced the appointment of Enterprise Software Veteran Rob Tarkoff as Chief Executive Officer to succeed Lyle Fong, co-founder of Lithium. Fong took up the role of Chief Strategist and continued serving on the board of directors.\n\nIn January 2012, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported that the company secured a $53.4 million Series D round of financing, led by New Enterprise Associates. The funding round also included Greenspring Associates, SAP Ventures, the venture capital firm associated with Germany's SAP AG. The WSJ reported that the Series D financing round brought the company's total funding to date to $101 million.\n\nSilicon Valley high-tech consultant and author Geoffrey Moore joined the company's board of directors in August 2012.\n\nIn October 2012, the company acquired Austin, Texas-based Social Dynamx, which provided cloud-based software that allows large call centers to manage their social customer service. Lithium renamed the former Social Dynamx product as \"Lithium Social Web\" and integrated it with its core Lithium Communities product.\n\nIn September 2013, Lithium announced a $50 million pre-IPO mezzanine funding round. The company said it secured the new financing from a syndicate of global institutional investors along with existing investor New Enterprise Associates (NEA).\n\nIn February 2014, Lithium bought Klout.\n\nIn June 2015, Microsoft and Lithium signed a strategic alliance agreement to integrate Lithium social interactions and community data into Microsoft Dynamics [null CRM].\n\nIn June 2016, Lithium announced Lithium Reach, a social marketing product that redefines how brands can maximize engagement across social channels, blogs and online communities. Lithium is a member of the Facebook Marketing Partner Program and Twitter Certified Partner Program.\n\nIn July 2017, Lithium announced that it was acquired by Vista Equity Partners, a leading private equity firm focused on investments in software, data and technology-enabled businesses. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.\n\nIn October 2017, Lithium announced its acquisition of the Jive-x external community business from Jive Software, an Aurea company.\n\nIn September 2018, Lithium announced its merger with Spredfast.\n\nHeadquartered in San Francisco, Lithium has additional offices in Austin, TX (US) New York, NY (US) Portland, OR (US) London (UK) Paris (FR) Singapore (SG) Sydney (AU) Zurich (CH) Bangalore (IND).\n\nThe company sells largely to enterprise customers, including HP, Best Buy, Sony, Comcast, Symantec, AT&T, Sephora, Spotify, Google, Sky, Samsung and Microsoft.\n\nThe Wall Street Journal ranked Lithium among the top 50 venture-capital-backed companies in September 2012 in the paper's \"Next Big Thing\" list.\n\nIn October 2012, analyst firm Gartner Inc. ranked Lithium in the Leader's Quadrant of the Social CRM Magic Quadrant. Lithium said the ranking by the industry analyst firm was \"based on Gartner's evaluation of the company's ability to execute on social strategy and overarching vision\".\n\nIn December 2013, Glassdoor recognized Lithium as one of the best places to work in 2014 with a Glassdoor Employees' Choice Award.\n\nIn May 2014, Gartner named Lithium a Visionary in the 2014 Gartner Magic Quadrant for the CRM Customer Engagement Center. In April 2015, Gartner named Lithium a Visionary in the 2015 Gartner Magic Quadrant for the CRM Customer Engagement Center.\n\nIn October 2015, Lithium won the WebAward for Best Computer: Software Website for lithium.com.\n\nIn February 2016, Lithium achieved Elite status on the 2016 CRM Watchlist, alongside Microsoft and Salesforce.\n\nIn May, 2016, Gartner named Lithium a Visionary in the 2016 Gartner Magic Quadrant report for the CRM Customer Engagement Center.\n\nIn September 2016, analyst firm IDC named Lithium a Leader in the IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Online Communities 2016 Vendor Assessment. Vanessa Thompson, Research Vice President, Communities and Collaboration of IDC noted, \"As an early entrant in the communities market Lithium has built a strong brand and reputation in community solutions, receiving the highest customer satisfaction response as a result.\"\n\nIn September 2016, Lithium was named to the Forbes Cloud 100, a list of leading up-and-comers in the field selected by Forbes and list partners Bessemer Venture Partners and Salesforce Ventures.\n"}
{"id": "6691155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6691155", "title": "Lloyd–La Follette Act", "text": "Lloyd–La Follette Act\n\nThe Lloyd–La Follette Act of 1912 began the process of protecting civil servants in the United States from unwarranted or abusive removal by codifying \"just cause\" standards previously embodied in presidential orders. It defines \"just causes\" as those that would promote the \"efficiency of the service.\" August 24, 1912, § 6, , \n\nThe Act further states that \"the right of employees... to furnish information to either House of Congress, or to a committee or Member thereof, may not be interfered with or denied.\" \n\nUnder the leadership of Republican Senator Robert M. La Follette, Sr., the United States Congress enacted the Act with the intention of conferring job protection rights on federal employees which they had not previously had. Prior to the enactment of this language, there was no such statutory inhibition on the authority of the government to discharge a federal employee, and an employee could be discharged with or without cause for conduct which was not protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe act was passed after the Theodore Roosevelt (in 1902) and Taft (in 1909) administrations prohibited federal employees from communicating with Congress without authorization from their superiors. This language was later placed in the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 and codified in . The purpose of this Act was to allow Congress to obtain uncensored, essential information from federal employees. Congress intended to allow the federal workers direct access to Congress in order to register complaints about conduct by their supervisors and to report corruption or incompetence.\n\nIn \"Arnett v. Kennedy\", 416 U.S. 134 (1974), the United States Supreme Court addressed questions about the Act. It held that the Act's standard of employment protection, which describes as explicitly as is feasible in view of the wide variety of factual situations where employees' statements might justify dismissal for \"cause\" the conduct that is ground for removal, is not impermissibly vague or overbroad in regulating federal employees' speech.\n\nOne of the primary purposes of the Act was to protect those who criticize of superiors from official retribution. Senator La Follette gave the following example of an abuse sought to be cured by the bill\n\nThe cause for [the employee's] dismissal was that he gave publicity to the insanitary conditions existing in some part of the post-office building in Chicago where the clerks were required to perform their services... [H]e furnished some facts to the press of Chicago, and the publication was made of the conditions. They were simply horrible... The public health officers of Chicago, as soon as their attention was called to the conditions, condemned the situation as they found it; and yet this young man, one of the brightest fellows I have met, was removed from the service because, he had given publicity to these outrageous conditions. (1912).\n\nThe Act was thus the first federal law enacted specifically to protect whistleblowers.\n\nThe history and scope of the Act was further described by the Supreme Court of the United States in \"Bush v. Lucas\", 462 U.S. 367, 103 S.Ct. 2404 (1983).\n\nCongressional attention to the problem of motivated removals was again prompted by the issuance of Executive Orders by Presidents Roosevelt and Taft that forbade federal employees to communicate directly with Congress without the permission of their supervisors... These \"gag orders,\" enforced by dismissal, were cited by several legislators as the reason for enacting the Lloyd–La Follette Act in 1912, , § 6.FN20 That statute... explicitly guaranteed that the right of civil servants \"to furnish information to either House of Congress, or to any committee or member thereof, shall not be denied or interfered with.\" FN22 As the House Report explained, this legislation was intended \"to protect employees against oppression and in the right of free speech and the right to consult their representatives.\" FN23 In enacting the Lloyd–La Follette Act, Congress weighed the competing policy considerations and concluded that efficient management of government operations did not preclude the extension of free speech rights to government employees.FN24\n\nFootnote 20. See 48 Cong.Rec. 4513 (1912) (remarks of Rep. Gregg) (\"[I]t is for the purpose of wiping out the existence of this despicable 'gag rule' that this provision is inserted. The rule is unjust, unfair, and against the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, which provides for the right of appeal and the right of free speech to all its citizens.\") A number of the bill's proponents asserted that the gag rule violated the First Amendment rights of civil servants. See, e.g., id., at 4653 (remarks of Rep. Calder) (1912); id., at 4738 (remarks of Rep. Blackmon); id., at 5201 (remarks of Rep. Prouty); id., at 5223 (remarks of Rep. O'Shaunessy); id., at 5634 (remarks of Rep. Lloyd); id., at 5637-5638 (remarks of Rep. Wilson); id., at 10671 (remarks of Sen. Ashurst); id., at 10673 (remarks of Sen. Reed); id., at 10793 (remarks of Sen. Smith); id., at 10799 (remarks of Sen. La Follette).\n\nIn 1997, the Justice Department argued that Congress does not have a constitutional right to obtain information from civil servants through unauthorized disclosures. Based on its analysis of disclosure laws and its stance on separation of powers, Justice argued that Congress cannot vest \"in executive branch employees a right to provide classified information to members of Congress without official authorization.\"\n\nIn 1997, Congress adopted an anti-gag rule. The government-wide prohibition on the use of appropriated funds to pay the salary of any federal official who prohibits or prevents or threatens to prohibit or prevent a federal employee from contacting Congress first appeared in the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 1998, , , (1997). In 1997, the Senate passed a prohibition that applied only to the Postal Service, while the House of Representatives passed a governmentwide prohibition. The conference report adopted the House version, and a government-wide prohibition has been included in every Treasury-Postal appropriations act since fiscal year 1998.\n\nThis provision has its antecedents in several older pieces of legislation, including the Treasury Department Appropriation Act of 1972, the Lloyd–La Follette Act of 1912, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978.\n\nIn 2006, Rep. John Conyers included the Lloyd–La Follette Act in a list of 26 laws that he contends President George W. Bush violated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37836594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37836594", "title": "Masatoshi Ōkōchi", "text": "Masatoshi Ōkōchi\n\nViscount (December 6, 1878 – August 29, 1952) was a physicist and business executive. He was the third director of the Riken Institute, a position which he assumed in 1921 and held for 25 years. During this period, he was notable for establishing the \"Riken Konzern\", a zaibatsu of companies which focused on utilizing Riken's research results to produce commercial products.\n\nHe was the eldest son of Ōkōchi Masatada, son of Manabe Akikatsu and adopted son of Matsudaira Masatomo. He married a daughter of his uncle Ōkōchi Nobuhisa, another son of Akikatsu but adopted by Matsudaira Nobuaki, with whom he had issue, including Nobuhiro Ōkōchi. His granddaughter through Nobuhiro was actress Momoko Kōchi.\n\nMasatoshi was born in Hamamatsuchō, Minato, Tokyo as a descendant of the Ōkōchi-Matsudaira clan who ruled over the Ōtaki Domain. After graduating from an elementary school affiliated with Gakushūin, he received an education at the First High School, and then enrolled in the Tokyo Imperial University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47021508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47021508", "title": "Mohammed Mulibah Sherif", "text": "Mohammed Mulibah Sherif\n\nMohammed Mulibah Sherif (born 16 April 1975) is the General Manager of regional transmission company TRANSCO CLSG (Cote d'Ivoire, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinee) based in Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire. He is an economist and project management specialist. He is recognized for his role in Liberia’s debt relief through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) process and also for helping to stabilize the Liberian economy from the effects of a prolonged civil conflict. He is married with five children.\n\nSherif is former Chief Economist of the Republic of Liberia and is credited for coordinating several project activities that yielded dividends for the implementation of Liberia’s foremost development agenda - Agenda for Transformation. He successfully coordinated activities of the Macro Fiscal Unit at the Ministry of Finance, Republic of Liberia. He is a graduate from the Usmanu Danfodiyo University from 1999 to 2002, where he earned a Bachelor of Arts Degree with concentration in Statistics.\n\nSherif also provided leadership on several high-level meetings for the Government of Liberia including the West African Monetary Zone (WAMZ), the spring and annual meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF). He traveled extensively on behalf of the Government of Liberia on several high-level conferences/meetings which brought in financial resources to boost development in the post-conflict country.\n\nOn April 16, 1975, Mohammed Mulbah Sherif was born in Voinjama, Lofa County, Liberia to the late Mr. and Mrs. Mulibah Sherif. He spent his early childhood years in Yekepa, Nimba County where he also started his formal education at the St. Francis Elementary school and the United Muslim Junior high school.\n\nFollowing the Civil War in 1990, Mohammed Sherif moved to Monrovia, the Liberian capital and attended the College of West Africa in 1994. He later fled to Nigeria as a result of the outbreak of war on April 6, 1996. While in Nigeria, he attended the Usmanu Danfodiyo University from 1999 to 2002, earning a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Statistics. He moved to Ghana and spent a year before returning to Liberia in 2004, and started work at the Ministry of Finance from 2004 - 2006 as an Administrative Assistant and then Economist.\n\nIn November 2006, Mohammed Sherif pursued his graduate studies in Economic Policy and Management at the UN Institute for Economic Development and Planning, Dakar, Senegal where he earned an MA Degree in Economic Policy and Management in 2008. After graduating, he was recruited as Senior Economist from November 2008 to August 2010 with the African Development Bank (AfDB) Institutional Support program to the Ministry of Finance of Liberia. He was subsequently promoted as Principal Economist in August 2010 to January 2012. Sherif received professional training from a host of Universities including Duke University, USA; Harvard School of professional Education, USA; IMF Institute, USA; World Bank Institute in Washington DC, USA; He taught Business Statistics for four years and Public Finance for one year at the University of Liberia graduate program in Public Financial Management.\n\nBefore ascending to his new position as General Manager of TRANSCO CLSG in September 2014, Mohammed Sherif worked as Chief Economist of Liberia at the Ministry of Finance from February 2012 – June 2014. In his professional career at the Ministry of Finance, Liberia, he played key role in the development of successful strategic programs in Liberia including the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2008–2011), Agenda for Transformation (2012–2017), Liberia Public Finance Law of 2009 and took a technical lead role in the development of five Budget Framework Papers that underpinned Liberia's medium term budgets beginning fiscal year 2010/2011 up to 2014/15. Mohammed Sherif also worked on the Medium Term Debt Management Strategy of 2013, and Risks Analysis Strategy for budget execution of 2013/14. He served as the Energy sector focal person at the Ministry of Finance from 2008–2014.\n\nMohammed Sherif also effectively coordinated the reporting requirements of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility/Extended Credit Facility Program in Liberia from 2008 that led to Liberia achieving debt waiver under the Heavily Indebted Poor countries process in 2010. He also coordinated negotiations of a new IMF ECF program covering 2013–2015. He was involved in the preparation of various country Assistance strategies from 2009 to 2013, with multilateral institutions including the World Bank and the African Development Bank (AfDB). He directly participated in the negotiations of many credit agreements for Liberia including International Development Association (IDA) credits.\n\nAs the General Manager of TRANSCO CLSG, Mohammed Sherif has earned himself a place among young African leaders who are making strives to transform their countries into fast growing economies. He remained a great asset to the government of Liberia until his ascendance to the top position at the TRANSCO CLSG (Côte d'Ivoire, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea) which is interconnecting these countries to allow mutually beneficial power exchanges and a reliable electricity supply necessary for economic growth and consolidating the fragile peace that has been achieved so far in these countries.\n\nMohammed M. Sherif arrived at TRANSCO CLSG with the desire to ensure affordable electricity is restored to millions of people in the Mano River Union. His vision for the future of TRANSCO CLSG is in line with the growing aspirations of the African continent. He plans to build on the successes of West African Power Pool (WAPP) and commit it to inclusive growth that boosts prosperity in the region, a support that will engender developing industries and increase employment as the route to poverty reduction. \"My vision for what TRANSCO CLSG can do for Africa, is creating a cheaper, more reliable, more expansive energy network. Additionally I envisage a starting point for efforts in future cooperation, pooling risks, sharing costs, and gaining for economies of scale,\" said Sherif.\n\nMohammed Sherif believes that beyond 2017, the region will see a commercially viable company that is effective and efficient in ensuring the uninterrupted supply of affordable electricity within the CLSG and in ECOWAS.\n\nIn January, 2006, Members of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) established articles of agreement establishing a new West African Power Pool (WAPP) organization. The objective of the WAPP is to establish a regional electricity market in West Africa through the development of key priority infrastructures that will permit accessibility to economic energy resources, to all member states of the ECOWAS. The Côte d'Ivoire – Liberia – Sierra Leone – Guinea Interconnection Project is one of the major sub-programs of the West Africa Power Pool (WAPP), with the aim to integrate the four post conflict countries into the same regional electricity market; by a high capacity transmission interconnection from Côte d'Ivoire to Guinea through Sierra Leone and Liberia. Supply of adequate and reliable electric power supply will improve security, good governance, the development of industry as well as improve the quality life of local communities.\n\nCote 'd'Ivoire, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea are part of what many consider a flagship electricity project that could pay off handsomely for Sub-Saharan Africa - and spark an economic transformation for countries struggling to stay afloat. Andrew M Herscowitz, the Coordinator for US President Barack Obama's Power Africa and Trade Africa initiatives has said that investment in energy infrastructure in Africa will help unlock potential in what is already the world's fastest-growing continent, with positive results for global growth.\n\nThe CLSG's line is a 1,303 kilometer stretch, coming from Man to Danane; from Danane to Yekepa; from Yekepa to Buchanan; from Buchanan to Mount Coffee; from Mount Coffee to Bo Waterside, which provides huge opportunities for Liberia. The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), through its West Africa Power Pool (WAPP) has made regional power grid access a priority for the next decade. Thus, the establishment of TRANSCO CLSG has created burgeoning opportunities across the region.\n\nThe WAPP intends to integrate the various national power systems into a unified regional electricity market - with the expectation that such mechanism would, over the medium to long-term, assure the citizens of ECOWAS member states a stable and reliable electricity supply at affordable costs, facilitating the balanced development of diverse energy resources for their collective economic benefit, through long-term energy sector cooperation, unimpeded energy transit and increasing cross-border electricity trade.\n\n"}
{"id": "5000516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5000516", "title": "Mommy track", "text": "Mommy track\n\nA mommy track is a path in a woman's life that puts priority to being a mother. It can also specifically refer to work arrangements for women in the workforce that facilitate motherhood, such as flexible hours, but at the same time usually provides fewer opportunities for career advancement. References to the mommy track often go along with being a housewife, \"opting out\" of the workforce, temporarily or even permanently. Women following the mommy track may be contrasted to career women who prioritize their careers more than having children.\n\nWriter Jennifer A. Kingson introduced the term \"mommy track\" in an August 8, 1988, article in The New York Times, in which she described the career hurdles faced by law firm associates who sacrificed advancement potential once they had children.\n\nFelice Schwartz’s 1989 article in the \"Harvard Business Journal\" is sometimes called the first discussion of the mommy track phenomenon. Schwartz claims in the article that while “the cost of employing women in management is greater than the cost of employing men,” this greater cost is due primarily to gendered expectations of the workplace and women’s duties in raising children. Schwartz wrote:\nSchwartz's assertions generated widespread publicity and a new conversation about women in the workplace. \"The New York Times,\" having coined the term in 1988, described \"mommy track\" in greater detail in a March 8, 1989 article, \"Mommy Career Track Sets Off Furor\" which discussed Schwartz's article and the response to it in the public sphere. The article described the mommy track as a phenomenon \"in which women with family responsibilities are shunted into dead-end, lower-paying jobs.\"\n\nAcross different pay levels and socioeconomic groups, women’s earnings tend to plateau after giving birth. Even when controlling for variables, on average mothers in all groups earn lower wages than non-mothers. Beyond this general drop in earnings, though, there are significant differences in mothers’ wage gaps between high-earning women and low-earning women.\n\nHigh-earning women appear to bear much higher costs of childbirth than low-earning women. In the US, choosing to have children will force a woman to give up 21 to 33 percent of her lifetime earnings, a loss that could cost up to hundreds of thousands of dollars. Ten years after having children, a highly skilled woman with children remains at a pay level 24% lower than non-mothers even when time out of the workforce is taken into account. This group of women also seems to face greater discrimination within the workplace; only 16% of all law firm partners are women, a discrepancy absent from lower-skilled professions. Higher-skilled women tend to have flatter wage-earning trajectories than their low-skilled counterparts after giving birth, primarily seen in a lack of wage growth.\n\nLow-earning women who have children are sacrificing about 10 to 14 percent of their total lifetime earnings. Even ten years after having children, a mother in the US in this income bracket earns wages that are about 12% lower than non-mother, low-skilled women. This group of mothers tends to experience a one-time fall in pay immediately after childbirth of about 6%, but after that initial fall the wage gap between women with children and those without does not continue to grow over time.\n\nA theory frequently cited for why mothers earning lower wages than other women that is the fact that mothers tend to spend fewer hours in the workplace than non-mothers. A report in 2014 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics stated that employed men worked 52 minutes more than employed women on the days they worked, and that this difference partly reflects women's greater likelihood of working part-time. Part-time work and flextime or more flexible arrangements are seen as hallmarks of the mommy track, since they point to women not being in the workplace full-time. However, this is changing as more people—men and women alike—choose more flexible work arrangements that allow for more free time.\n\nIn the years since the women’s liberation movement and second-wave feminism, gender roles have become more complicated and less dogmatic. Despite this, the modern ideal of “intensive parenting,” first described by Sharon Hays, ensures that mothers continue to take primary responsibility for raising children due to the engrained social norm that women are better nurturers. This is one of the reasons that while both men and women report having increased trouble with their work-life balance after having a baby, women are the only ones whose hours working decrease as a response to this conflict. Moreover, women who cannot afford to pay someone else to take care of domestic work are faced with the double burden of working outside of the home while continuing to complete the majority of domestic work in the home.\n\nAnother cultural influence on mothers' decreased presence in the workforce is gender discrimination within the U.S. tax code. Since domestic labor in one’s own home is unpaid and untaxed, and women continue to do a majority of domestic labor as a result of societal norms, in many households it may seem less expensive for a woman to take care of this labor than to go to work and pay someone else to cook, clean, and care for children. The tax code also sees men as the primary earners and women as secondary earners, so men benefit from joint filing while women’s earnings are frequently subject to higher taxation.\n\nMany feminists saw the idea of the mommy track as divisive to women and therefore one that could have a detrimental effect to the feminist cause. Since Schwartz’s initial article proposed sorting women into two categories based on their devotion to careers, some saw this as a division between women that both forced them into narrow categories and ignored any existing differences between men.\n\nThere is also an ongoing discussion of whether the wage gap that results from a mommy track is any sort of societal discrimination against women, or basically an effect of mothers choosing to spend more time away from work.\n\nIn a 2005 study, in the US, it has been estimated that 31% of working mothers left the workplace (for an average of 2.2 years), most often precipitated by the birth of the second child. As of 2015, the US was one of only three countries in the world (the other two being Papua New Guinea and Suriname) that does not have laws that require employers to provide paid maternity leave.\n\nJapan’s social norms, like those of the U.S., help to cause many women to move into part-time work upon having children. However, unlike the U.S., Japanese mothers rarely return to full-time work after having children. Even more so than other developed countries, Japan has an especially high proportion of women who work part-time, and a majority of those women are mothers. Common business practices in Japan further penalize mothers who may have taken leave from the workplace at some point, due to companies choosing to only recruit directly from universities and setting upper limits on age for full-time positions.\n\nIn the Netherlands women have entered the workforce relatively recently. Throughout much of the 20th century, women faced many legal and social obstacles preventing them from working. Although in the late 1950s, the Netherlands made important legal changes, such as removing the marriage bar and the marital power of the husband, it was only in 1984 that full legal equality between husband and wife was achieved - prior to 1984 the law stipulated that the husband's opinion prevailed over the wife's regarding issues such as decisions on children's education and the domicile of the family, reflecting the traditional structure of the society.\nAlso, according to \"The Economist\", \"[Dutch] politics was dominated by Christian values until the 1980s\", which meant that Dutch women were slower to enter into the workforce. In the early 1980s, the Commission of the European Communities report \"Women in the European Community\" found that \"it is in the Netherlands (17.6%) and in Ireland (13.6%) that we see the smallest numbers of married women working and the least acceptance of this phenomenon by the general public\". (pg 14). From the 1980s onwards, the numbers of women entering the workplace have increased, but most of the women work part time. In 2012, 76.9% of employed women worked part-time, well above the European Union average of 32.1%.\n\nThe UK has less working mothers than many other Western countries. Lack of sufficient childcare and social stigma against working mothers have been cited as reasons. In general, women in the UK have one of the highest rate of part-time work in Europe. A report by OECD which looked at the OECD members, as well as at other countries from inside and outside Europe, found that only the Netherlands and Switzerland had a higher percentage of women working part-time. Women in the UK face one of the worst motherhood penalties among Western countries: \"[mothers] find significant motherhood wage penalties in several Continental Northern European countries (Austria, the Netherlands and Germany) and Anglophone countries (Canada, the UK and the US)\". The European Council, in a recommendation to the UK (which is non-binding), has criticized the UK because \"The difference in the share of part-time work between women (42,6 % in 2013) and men (13,2 % in 2013) is one of the highest in the Union. The percentage of women who are inactive or work part-time due to personal and family responsibilities (12,5 %) was almost twice as high as the EU average (6,3 %) in 2013...[e]ven if supply in the childcare system has increased recently, the availability of affordable, high-quality, full-time childcare remains a key issue.\"\n\nIn the Nordic countries, marriage and having children have far greater effects on women than on men, partly due to the expectation that women will continue unpaid domestic labor. However, the Nordic countries have worked to make the dual-earner household the norm, with nationalized childcare, parental leave, and flexible working hours making it possible for women to continue to work. According to a 2007 UNICEF report, in Sweden, although parents are given 12 months of parental leave time that can be divided between the two as each couple sees best, gender norms continue to have an effect: mandated maternity leave combined with Sweden allowing women to reduce work hours after giving birth means that nearly half of mothers in dual-income families work less than full-time. Although women in Nordic countries have a high overall labour participation, there is a strong segregation by gender with women being often found in certain work sectors, which have a working culture adapted to family life, with flexible hours and offers of part-time jobs, and men working in other sectors. According to the Nordic Information on Gender \"The gender-segregated labour market is a main reason why women are more likely to work part time in the Nordic countries than elsewhere in Europe\". However, this part-time work culture does not extend to Finland, where for historical reasons there was a shortage of labour in the country, which increased the need for women to work full time - as such, the part-time culture of the other Nordic countries was never established in Finland. Finland has a longer tradition of mothers working, compared to the other Nordic countries: in 1978, 73% of Finnish mothers of 0 - 6 year olds were employed, compared to 69% of Swedish and only 48% of Norwegian.\nAs of 2014, Sweden's employment rate for women was the highest in the EU28, and was only slightly below that of men (73% female rate vs. 76.5% male rate). This compared with the EU28 rate of 58.8% female vs 69% male.\n\n\nPolicies:\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45458833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45458833", "title": "Márcio Santoro", "text": "Márcio Santoro\n\nMárcio Santoro (São Paulo, August 29, 1970) is co-president and co-founder of Agência África, one of the ten largest advertising agency in Brazil, and a partner of the ABC Group, the largest communications holding company in Latin America.\n\nSantoro began his career as an advertising agent at 17 years of age as an intern at advertising agency DPZ. In the following years, he worked for the Lowe and DM9DDB advertising agencies. Márcio graduated from the School of Advertising and Marketing ESPM, specialized in integrated communication at Kellogg School of Management, and has a graduate degree from the Owners and President Management (OPM) course from Harvard Business School.\n\nIn December 2002, Santoro founded Africa, an ABC Group advertising agency, the largest communications holding company in Latin America with partners Nizan Guanaes, Sergio Gordilho, Luiz Fernando Vieira and Olivia Machado. From 2008 to 2014, Africa was voted the most admired advertising agency in the market by Carta Capital magazine.\n\nIn 2010, he became co-director of Africa alongside Sergio Gordilho. (Folha) Under his leadership, Africa is responsible for the communication of brands Itaú, Brahma, Vivo, Procter & Gamble, among others. In December 2014, Márcio became a member of the ABC Group, the largest communications holding company in Latin America and 19th largest in the world.\n\nIn 2006, Márcio Santoro won the Caboré award for Best Service Professional. Santoro was awarded best Director/Entrepreneur of the Communication Industry with the Caboré, a Brazilian communications industry award and Director of the Year by the Association of Advertising Professionals in 2014.\n\nAlso in 2014, Márcio was voted one of the top 10 communications professional, according to Meio e Mensagem. In the same year, 2014, Africa was voted the International Agency of the Year by Advertising Age, a key American advertising magazine, for his work in digital media for Procter & Gamble and for designing Banco Itaú's commercials during the 2014 FIFA World Cup appointed by Adweek, advertising publication, as one of the most creative agencies in the world. Africa also received the DCI Award - Most Admired Companies under the 2014 Marketing and Advertising category.\n"}
{"id": "37493721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37493721", "title": "Nicandro Durante", "text": "Nicandro Durante\n\nNicandro Durante (born 13 September 1956) is a Brazilian businessman, the chief executive (CEO) of British American Tobacco plc (informally BAT), the world's largest tobacco company by sales.\n\nDurante was born in Goias, Brazil, and is of Italian ancestry. Durante has a bachelor's degree in Finance, Economics and Business Administration from the Pontifícia Universidade Católica de São Paulo. \n\nDurante joined BAT's Brazilian subsidiary Souza Cruz in 1981. In January 2008, he was appointed BAT's chief operating officer, and in March 2011 became chief executive. In late 2018 BAT announced that Durante would retire at the end of March 2019. Durante is BAT's first non-British CEO. During his tenure as CEO, BAT's share price has doubled. It collapsed in 2018 as it appeared he had misjudged the FDA's attitude towards menthol cigarettes and that BAT had hopelessly overpaid in the acquisition of the Reynolds minorities in July 2017 (at the time the largest ever foreign investment into a US firm). His retirement came at a highly controversial time in the firms history. \n\nIn 2015 he took home almost £8 million \n\nIn 2016 he asked for a raise to reach £10 million saying he deserves another £2 million \n\nDurante enjoys cigar-smoking, the opera, running and playing football. He is married with two children. \n"}
{"id": "38108305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38108305", "title": "Patent box", "text": "Patent box\n\nA patent box is a special tax regime used by several countries to incentivise research and development by taxing patent revenues differently from other commercial revenues. It is also known as intellectual property box regime, innovation box or IP box.\nIn the early 1970s Ireland introduced the first scheme in its Corporation Tax. Section 34 of the 1973 Finance Act allowed total tax relief in respect of royalties and other income from licenses patented in Ireland. \n\nThe concept was applied in 2001 by the French Tax Authorities as a reduced rate of tax on revenue from IP licensing or the transfer of qualified IP. Within Europe, Belgium, Hungary, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom have also introduced similar schemes.\n\nThe Irish Patent Box system is one of the key benefits for companies paying Irish corporation tax. The system was criticised by Lionel Jospin in the early 2000s and more recently by both the EU (Ecofin assessment 2014) and the OECD under its Base Erosion and Profit-Shifting (BEPS) project. The system has been key to attracting international IT companies to Ireland. The economic benefits of beneficial tax regimes for revenues from patents led to similar schemes being introduced in France in 2000 and amended in 2005 & 2010.\n\nIP box rules were changed in October 2016, valid since July 2016 - reduced the list of the qualified IP incomes, no patents nor trademarks anymore. 80% of income is exempted after deducting the real expenses, giving an effective tax rate of 2.5% or less.\n\nThe scheme which had existed since 1973 was withdrawn in 2010 under the National recovery Plan 2011-2015 of the Republic of Ireland. It exempted revenue from qualifying Patents from Irish corporation tax. The exemption is to be replaced by a “Knowledge Development Box” in 2015 offering a reduced tax rate of 6.25% on qualifying profits generated in periods commencing on or after 1 January 2016.\n\nThe key difference in the Irish KDB to those of other European countries is its compliance with the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) programme, Ireland’s is the first patent-box type system to offer compliance in this area. Companies availing of the current R&D tax credit should be aware of the KDB and the potential for them to take advantage of both systems.\n\nIntroduced in 1979 the Patents and royalties regime allows companies paying French corporation tax to pay a reduced rate of 15% (instead of 33%) on patent and royalties income as they are treated as a long term capital gain. If the licensee is a French corporation and actually uses the qualified IP licensed, the licensee may deduct the royalty payments from its income taxable at the standard 33.33% rate even if the licensor is taxed at the reduced 15% rate\n\nThe Netherlands introduced a patent box tax regime referred to as the ‘innovation box’ in January 2007. This initial regime applied only to patents and applied a 10% rate of corporate tax. On 1 January 2010 the regime was expanded to include a much wider range of IP and the headline rate was reduced to 5%. The reduced rate of corporate tax applies to the net positive income derived from the qualifying IP ( gross income minus all related expenses and depreciation).\n\nThe patent box scheme in Belgium was introduced in January 2007, and is known as a patent income deduction (PID). The last revision applies from July 2016. This PID allows a company, liable to pay Corporation Tax in Belgium, to deduct from its taxable income 85% of gross patent income. The remaining 15% of gross patent income is taxed at the standard corporation tax rate of 34% (including a 3% surtax). This results in an effective tax rate of 5.1% on the qualifying income.\n\nThe Luxembourg IP regime has been abolished. IP regimes claimed before July 2016 can still continue to benefit from the preferential rate for the next 5 years. It is expected that Luxembourg creates a new IP regime following the OECD criteria.\n\nIn Luxembourg IP regime became effective in January 2008 and amended in 2008 to also exclude qualifying IP assets from Luxembourg’s net wealth tax. The scheme applies to the net income derived from the use of qualifying intellectual property acquired or developed after December 2007. 80% of income is exempted, giving an effective tax rate of 5.76%.\n\nHungary introduced a scheme in 2003 including a provision according to which 50% of the pre-tax amount of the royalties received may be deducted from the tax base, this reducing the effective corporate tax rate on such royalties from 9% to 4.5%. The legislation is BEPS compliant.\n\nAs of January 1, 2008, 50% of the gross income of Spanish domiciled companies derived from qualified Intellectual Property is exempt from Spain’s Corporation tax resulting in an effective tax rate of 15%.\n\nThe United Kingdom introduced a Patent Box scheme in 2013 taxing qualifying IP at 10%.\nThe Patent Box in the UK is a tax incentive introduced in 2013 designed to encourage companies to make profits from their patents by reducing the UK tax paid on those profits.\n\nThe UK Patent Box went live in April 2013. The UK government wants to encourage high-value growth in UK plc through a competitive tax regime that supports UK R&D from conception to commercialisation. The Patent Box forms a key part of this strategy by encouraging companies to \"commercialise\" their patents and R&D in the UK. Other countries (eg.Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands) already operate schemes to provide incentives for companies to retain and commercialise existing patents\n\nThe scheme was first proposed in the 2009 Pre-Budget Report and went through various iterations and public consultations until final legislation was passed in the Finance Act 2012. The legislation is now formally a new Part 8A of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 entitled \"Profits Arising from the Exploitation of Patents etc\". The Finance (No.2 Bill) 2015/16 includes proposed amendments, which, if implemented, will amend the patent box rules.\n\nThe Patent Box initiative is complementary to the R&D tax incentives which encourage companies to \"undertake\" their R&D in the UKhb\n\nThe Patent Box allows a 10% tax rate on profits derived from any products that incorporate patents. The net benefit for claiming companies is likely to be several percentage points of their corporate earnings, given that the main rate of UK corporation tax is 20 per cent.\n\nThe steady state cost, after the initial phasing- in period, of the Patent Box is forecast to be approximately £1.1 billion in terms of corporation tax revenues foregone by HM Treasury.\n\nThe claim process is as follows:\n\nCompanies must calculate their qualifying Patent Box profit and then apply a specific formula in their tax computation to calculate the deduction in their tax liability. Then they can take the tax deduction as a benefit in their CT600 tax return.\nThe formula to calculate the amount of the tax deduction is\n\nwhere \n\nQualifying patents must have been granted by an approved patent-granting body, including the UK Intellectual Property Office, the European Patent Office, and designated European territories: Austria; Bulgaria; the Czech republic; Denmark; Estonia; Finland; Germany; Hungary; Poland; Portugal; Romania; Slovakia and Sweden.\n\nCurrently, the Patent Box excludes patents registered in territories such as the USA, France, and Spain because of differences in the search and approval process for patent applications.\n\nThe Patent Box excludes products that only have copyright or trademark protection.\n\nThere are five categories (“heads”) of qualifying income: \n\nIncome generated from exclusive licenses will be qualifying income on both sides of the agreement – i.e. for the licensor \"and\" the licensee – subject to specific conditions concerning the meaning of exclusivity.\n\n“IP-derived income”, where patented products or processes are used in the manufacture or delivery of non-patented products or services, will be qualifying income to the extent of a notional royalty which values the specific patented product or process as a proportion of the value of the non-patented product or service.\n\n\n\nThe following situations will be against the law:\nReasonable and commercially appropriate steps to restructure corporate arrangements to take advantage of the Patent Box will be considered legitimate.\n\n\nThe Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) and Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme (SEIS) give generous income and capital gains tax relief to individuals who invest in small early stage businesses.\n\nThe government established a working group to complement wider consultation on the Patent Box and to discuss options and proposals in more detail. Members of the Working Group include representatives from: HMRC and HM Treasury; industry (GlaxoSmithKline; Dyson; ARMSyngenta), the financial services community including large accounting firms (PWC; Deloitte; KPMG; Ernst and Young); independent consultants and representatives from the technology commercialisation sphere and professional bodies.\n\nThe UK government is in the process of gathering evidence to submit to the Forum for Harmful Tax Practices (FHTP), part of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), in the forum's work on international base erosion and profit shifting, specifically Action Point 5 of the OECD Action Plan published in July 2013. The forum provides member countries with the opportunity to review each other’s tax arrangements and to challenge harmful tax initiatives.\n\nAction 5 focuses on “substantial activity” that must occur in a jurisdiction for a company to benefit from a specific preferential tax regime.\n\nThe UK government publicly supports the current work around Action 5 to ensure a better understanding of what constitutes economic substance when businesses carry out R&D activities, so as to effectively address those instances where preferential tax regimes might present an opportunity to shift profits.\n\nOptions being discussed include a new method of calculating benefits for IP-incentive tax schemes. This is the so-called nexus approach (where underlying expenditure to create the IP is used to define the proportion of qualifying income generated from the IP), rather than the conventional transfer pricing approach (where transfer pricing principles define a substantial activity test and either the IP commercialisation activity passes the test or it does not, and all IP income thus either qualifies or it does not).\n\nThese discussions are also informed by work being carried out by the Economic and Financial Affairs Council (ECOFIN) and the EU Code of Conduct Group, which started in 2013 to look at the workings of the UK Patent Box scheme. The Code of Conduct Group operates on a similar basis to the FHTP. The Code of Conduct Group partnered with the FHTP in these discussions in early 2014.\n\nFollowing a sustained period of international tax scrutiny led by Germany in the FHTP and the EU Code of Conduct Group, a compromise agreement for the UK patent box scheme based on a modified nexus approach was announced by the UK and Germany on 11 November 2014. The acceptance of a nexus based approach will have significant implications for the UK patent box scheme; fundamentally, patent box relief will now be restricted to profits generated from IP initially developed in the UK.\nThe main points in the Anglo-German accord have been announced as follows:\nThe UK and Germany submitted their proposal to the OECD Forum on Harmful Tax Practices during its meeting on 17–19 November, and they have also committed to seek formal approval from the OECD and G20 at the January 2015 meeting of the OECD’s Committee on Fiscal Affairs.\n\nSwitzerland allows companies who predominantly trade internationally to benefit from the advantageous “mixed-company” status that allows them to be taxed at a rate of just 8,5%. In 2007 the European Commission alleged the tax schemes for holding, mixed and domiciliary companies violated the 1972 FTA between the EU and Switzerland as it was State Aid. Although the Swiss government refuted the allegation in May 2012 the Swiss cantons gave the federal government the go-ahead to commence a tax dialogue with the EU. In May 2014 the EU and Switzerland reached an agreement whereby the disputed tax regimes would be abolished.\n\nIn 2011 the canton of Nidwalden introduced the Licence Box rule which allows companies located in Nidwalden to benefit from a cantonal tax rate on net license income reduced by 80% the effective corporate income tax rate is 8.8%\n\n\nCriticism\n\nResources\n"}
{"id": "62304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62304", "title": "Pfizer", "text": "Pfizer\n\nPfizer Inc. () is an American pharmaceutical corporation headquartered in New York City, with its research headquarters in Groton, Connecticut. It is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies. It is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and its shares have been a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average since 2004. Pfizer ranked No. 57 on the 2018 Fortune 500 list of the largest United States corporations by total revenue.\n\nThe company develops and produces medicines and vaccines for a wide range of medical disciplines, including immunology, oncology, cardiology, endocrinology, and neurology. Its products include the blockbuster drug Lipitor (atorvastatin), used to lower LDL blood cholesterol; Lyrica (pregabalin) for neuropathic pain and fibromyalgia; Diflucan (fluconazole), an oral antifungal medication; Zithromax (azithromycin), an antibiotic; Viagra (sildenafil) for erectile dysfunction; and Celebrex (also Celebra, celecoxib), an anti-inflammatory drug.\n\nIn 2016, Pfizer Inc. was expected to merge with Allergan, Plc to create the Ireland-based \"Pfizer plc\" in a deal that would have been worth $160 billion. The merger was called off in April 2016, however, because of new rules from the United States Treasury against tax inversions, a method of avoiding taxes by merging with a foreign company. The company has made the second-largest pharmaceutical settlement with the United States Department of Justice.\n\nPfizer was founded in 1849 by German-American Charles Pfizer and his cousin Charles F. Erhart from Ludwigsburg, Germany. They launched the chemicals business Charles Pfizer and Company from a building at the intersection of Harrison Avenue and Bartlett Street in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, where they produced an antiparasitic called santonin. This was an immediate success, although it was the production of citric acid that really kick-started Pfizer's growth in the 1880s. Pfizer continued to buy property to expand its lab and factory on the block bounded by Bartlett Street, Harrison Avenue, Gerry Street, and Flushing Avenue. Pfizer's original administrative headquarters was at 81 Maiden Lane in Manhattan.\n\nBy 1906, sales totaled $3.4 million.\n\nWorld War I caused a shortage of calcium citrate which Pfizer imported from Italy for the manufacture of citric acid, and the company began a search for an alternative supply. Pfizer chemists learned of a fungus that ferments sugar to citric acid, and they were able to commercialize production of citric acid from this source in 1919, and the company developed expertise in fermentation technology as a result. These skills were applied to the mass production of the antibiotic penicillin during World War II in response to the need to treat injured Allied soldiers; most of the penicillin that went ashore with the troops on D-Day was made by Pfizer.\n\nPenicillin became very inexpensive in the 1940s, and Pfizer searched for new antibiotics with greater profit potential. They discovered Terramycin (oxytetracycline) in 1950, and this changed the company from a manufacturer of fine chemicals to a research-based pharmaceutical company. Pfizer developed a drug discovery program focusing on in vitro synthesis in order to augment its research in fermentation technology. The company also established an animal health division in 1959 with an farm and research facility in Terre Haute, Indiana.\n\nBy the 1950s, Pfizer had established offices in Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Cuba, Mexico, Panama, Puerto Rico, and the United Kingdom. In 1960, the company moved its medical research laboratory operations out of New York City to a new facility in Groton, Connecticut. In 1980, they launched Feldene (piroxicam), a prescription anti-inflammatory medication that became Pfizer's first product to reach one billion dollars in total sales. During the 1980s and 1990s, Pfizer Corporation growth was sustained by the discovery and marketing of Zoloft, Lipitor, Norvasc, Zithromax, Aricept, Diflucan, and Viagra.\n\nIn this decade, Pfizer grew by mergers, including those with Warner–Lambert (2000), Pharmacia (2003), and Wyeth (2009).\n\nIn 2003, the company acquired Esperion Therapeutics for $1.3 billion (later selling the unit in 2008), protecting Lipitor from ETC-216. In 2004, Pfizer announced it would acquire Meridica for $125 million. In 2005, the company made a number of acquisitions: Vicuron Pharmaceuticals for $1.9 billion, Idun for just less than $300 million and finally Angiosyn for $527 million.\n\nOn June 26, 2006, Pfizer announced it would sell its Consumer Healthcare unit (manufacturer of Listerine, Nicorette, Visine, Sudafed and Neosporin) to Johnson & Johnson for $16.6 billion.\n\nDevelopment of torcetrapib, a drug that increases production of HDL, or \"good cholesterol\", which reduces LDL thought to be correlated to heart disease, was cancelled in December 2006. During a Phase III clinical trial involving 15,000 patients, more deaths occurred in the group that took the medicine than expected, and a sixty percent increase in mortality was seen among patients taking the combination of torcetrapib and Lipitor versus Lipitor alone. Lipitor alone was not implicated in the results, but Pfizer lost nearly $1 billion developing the failed drug and the market value of the company plummeted afterwards. The company also announced it would acquire Powermed and Rivax.\n\nIn September 2009, Pfizer pleaded guilty to the illegal marketing of the arthritis drug Bextra for uses unapproved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and agreed to a $2.3 billion settlement, the largest health care fraud settlement at that time.\n\nA July 2010 article in \"BusinessWeek\" reported that Pfizer was seeing more success in its battle against makers of counterfeit prescription drugs by pursuing civil lawsuits rather than criminal prosecution. Pfizer has hired customs and narcotics experts from all over the globe to track down fakes and assemble evidence that can be used to pursue civil suits for trademark infringement. Since 2007, Pfizer has spent $3.3 million on investigations and legal fees and recovered about $5.1 million, with another $5 million tied up in ongoing cases.\n\nOn May 6, 2013, Pfizer told The Associated Press it would begin selling Viagra directly to patients via its website.\n\nPfizer acquired Warner–Lambert in 2000 for $111.8 billion, at the time, created the second largest pharmaceutical company in the world. Warner–Lambert was founded as a Philadelphia drug store in 1856 by William R. Warner. Inventing a tablet-coating process gained Warner a place in the Smithsonian Institution. Parke–Davis was founded in Detroit in 1866 by Hervey Parke and George Davis. Warner–Lambert took over Parke–Davis in 1976, and acquired Wilkinson Sword in 1993 and Agouron Pharmaceuticals in 1999. \n\nIn 2002, Pfizer merged with Pharmacia. The merger was again driven in part by the desire to acquire full rights to a product, this time Celebrex (celecoxib), the COX-2 selective inhibitor previously jointly marketed by Searle (acquired by Pharmacia) and Pfizer. In the ensuing years, Pfizer carried out a massive restructuring that resulted in numerous site closures and the loss of jobs including Terre Haute, Indiana; Holland, Michigan; Groton, Connecticut; Brooklyn, New York; Sandwich, UK; and Puerto Rico.\n\nPharmacia had been formed by a series of mergers and acquisitions from its predecessors, including Searle, Upjohn and SUGEN.\n\nSearle was founded in Omaha, Nebraska, in April 1888. The founder was Gideon Daniel Searle. In 1908, the company was incorporated in Chicago, Illinois. In 1941, the company established headquarters in Skokie, Illinois. It was acquired by the Monsanto Company, headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, in 1985.\n\nThe Upjohn Company was a pharmaceutical manufacturing firm founded in 1886 in Kalamazoo, Michigan, by Dr. William E. Upjohn, an 1875 graduate of the University of Michigan medical school. The company was originally formed to make friable pills, which were specifically designed to be easily digested. Greenstone was founded in 1993 by Upjohn as a generics division. In 1995, Upjohn merged with Pharmacia, to form Pharmacia & Upjohn. Pharmacia was created in April 2000 through the merger of Pharmacia & Upjohn with the Monsanto Company and its G.D. Searle unit. The merged company was based in Peapack, New Jersey. The agricultural division was spun off from Pharmacia, as Monsanto, in preparation for the close of the acquisition by Pfizer.\n\nSUGEN, a company focused on protein kinase inhibitors, was founded in 1991 in Redwood City, California, and acquired by Pharmacia in 1999. The company pioneered the use of ATP-mimetic small molecules to block signal transduction. After the Pfizer merger, the SUGEN site was shut down in 2003, with the loss of over 300 jobs, and several programs were transferred to Pfizer. These included sunitinib (Sutent), which was approved for human use by the FDA in January 2006, passed $1 billion in annual revenues for Pfizer in 2010. A related compound, SU11654 (Toceranib), was also approved for canine tumors, and the ALK inhibitor Crizotinib also grew out of a SUGEN program.\n\nIn 2003, the new Pfizer made Greenstone (originally established as a division of Upjohn) its generic division, and its focus turned to selling authorized generics of Pfizer's products.\n\nIn 2008, Pfizer announced 275 job cuts at the Kalamazoo manufacturing facility. Kalamazoo was previously the world headquarters for the Upjohn Company.\n\nOn January 26, 2009, after more than a year of talks between the two companies, Pfizer agreed to buy pharmaceuticals rival Wyeth for a combined US$68 billion in cash, shares and loans, including some US$22.5 billion lent by five major Wall Street banks. The deal cemented Pfizer's position as the largest pharmaceutical company in the world, with the merged company generating over US$20 billion in cash each year, and was the largest corporate merger since AT&T and BellSouth's US$70 billion deal in March 2006. The combined company was expected to save US$4 billion annually through streamlining; however, as part of the deal, both companies must repatriate billions of dollars in revenue from foreign sources to the United States, which will result in higher tax costs. The acquisition was completed on October 15, 2009, making Wyeth a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer.\n\nThe merger was broadly criticized. Harvard Business School's Gary Pisano told The Wall Street Journal, \"the record of big mergers and acquisitions in Big Pharma has just not been good. There's just been an enormous amount of shareholder wealth destroyed.\" Analysts said at the time, \"The Warner–Lambert and Pharmacia mergers do not appear to have achieved gains for shareholders, so it is unclear who benefits from the Wyeth–Pfizer merger to many critics.\"\n\nIn October 2010, Pfizer agreed to buy King Pharmaceuticals for $3.6 billion in cash or $14.25 per share: an approximately 40% premium over King's closing share price October 11, 2010.\n\nIn February 2011, it was announced that Pfizer was to close its UK research and development facility (formerly also a manufacturing plant) in Sandwich, Kent, which at the time employed 2,400 people. However, as of 2014, Pfizer has a reduced presence at the site; it also has a UK research unit in Cambridge.\n\nOn September 4, 2012, the FDA approved a Pfizer pill for a rare type of leukemia. The medicine, called Bosulif, treats chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), a blood and bone marrow disease that usually affects older adults.\n\nIn July 2014, the company announced it would acquire Innopharma for $225 million, plus up to $135 million in milestone payments, in a deal that expanded Pfizer's range of generic and injectable drugs.\n\nOn January 5, 2015, the company announced it would acquire a controlling interest in Redvax for an undisclosed sum. This deal expanded the company's vaccine portfolio targeting human cytomegalovirus. In March 2015, the company announced it would restart its collaboration with Eli Lilly surrounding the phase III trial of Tanezumab. Pfizer is expected to receive an upfront sum of $200 million. In June 2015, the company acquired two meningitis drugs from GlaxoSmithKline—Nimenrix and Mencevax—for around $130 million, expanding the company's meningococcal disease portfolio of drugs.\n\nIn May 2016, the company announced it would acquire Anacor Pharmaceuticals for $5.2 billion, expanding the companies portfolio in both inflammation and immunology drugs areas. On their final trading day, Anacor shares traded for $99.20 each, giving Anacor a market capitalisation of $4.5 billion. In August, the company made a $40 million bid for the assets of the now bankrupt BIND Therapeutics through the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. The same month, the company announced it would acquire Bamboo Therapeutics for $645 million, expanding the company's gene therapy offerings. Later, in August, the company announced the acquisition of cancer drug-maker - Medivation - for $14 billion. On Medivation's final day of trading, its shares were valued at $81.44 each, giving an effective market capitalisation of $13.52 billion. Two days later, Pfizer announced it would acquire AstraZenecas small-molecule antibiotics business for $1.575 billion merging it into its \"Essential Medicines\" business In the same month the company licensed the anti-CTLA4 monoclonal antibody, ONC-392, from OncoImmune.\n\nPlans to spin out Zoetis, the Agriculture Division of Pfizer and later Pfizer Animal Health, were announced in 2012. Pfizer filed for registration of a Class A stock with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13, 2012. Zoetis's IPO on February 1, 2013, sold 86.1 million shares for US$2.2 billion. Pfizer retained 414 million Class B shares, giving it an 83% controlling stake in the firm. The offering's lead underwriters were JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, and Morgan Stanley. Most of the money raised through the IPO was used to pay off existing Pfizer debt.\n\nIn April 2014, it was reported that Pfizer had reignited a $100 billion takeover bid for the UK-based AstraZeneca, sparking political controversy in the UK, as well as in the US. On May 19, 2014, a \"final offer\" of £55 a share was rejected by the AstraZeneca board, which said the bid was too low and imposed too many risks. If successful, the takeover—the biggest in British history—would have made Pfizer the world's largest drug company. Hopes for a renewed bid later in the year were dashed when Pfizer signed a major cancer drug deal with Merck KGaA, selling its sharing rights to develop an experimental immunotherapy drug for a fee of $850 million.\n\nIn February 2015, Pfizer and Hospira agreed that Pfizer would acquire Hospira for $15.2 billion, a deal in which Hospira shareholders would receive $90 in cash for each share they owned. News of the deal sent Hospira share prices up from $63.43 to $87.43 on a volume of 60.7 million shares. Including debt, the deal is valued at around $17 billion. Hospira is the largest producer of generic injectable pharmaceuticals in the world. On the final day of trading, Hospira shares traded for $89.96 each, giving a market capitalisation of $15.56 billion.\n\nOn November 23, 2015, Pfizer and Allergan, Plc announced their intention to merge for an approximate sum of $160 billion, making it the largest pharmaceutical deal ever, and the third largest corporate merger in history. As part of the deal, the Pfizer CEO, Ian Read, was to remain as CEO and chairman of the new company, to be called \"Pfizer plc\", with Allergan's CEO, Brent Saunders, becoming president and chief operating officer. As part of the deal, Allergan shareholders would receive 11.3 shares of the company, with Pfizer shareholders receiving one. The terms proposed that the merged company would maintain Allergan's Irish domicile, resulting in the new company being subject to corporation tax at the Irish rate of 12.5%--considerably lower than the 35% rate that Pfizer paid at the time. The deal was to constitute a reverse merger, whereby Allergan acquired Pfizer, with the new company then changing its name to \"Pfizer, plc\". The deal was expected to be completed in the second half of 2016, subject to certain conditions: US and EU approval, approval from both sets of shareholders, and the completion of Allergan's divestiture of its generics division to Teva Pharmaceuticals (expected in the first quarter of 2016). On April 6, 2016, Pfizer and Allergan announced they would be calling off the merger after the Obama administration introduced new laws intended to limit corporate tax inversions (the extent to which companies could move their headquarters overseas in order to reduce the amount of taxes they pay).\n\nIn October 2017, reports emerged that Pfizer were undertaking a strategic review of their Consumer Healthcare division, with possible results ranging from a partial or complete spin-off or a direct sale with the divestment expected to raise in the region of $15 billion for one of the largest Over-the-Counter businesses in the world. Reckitt Benckiser expressed interest in bidding for the division earlier in October with Sanofi, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble and GlaxoSmithKline also being linked with bids for the business. On March 22, Reckitt Benckiser pulled out of the deal, a day later GlaxoSmithKline also pulled out.\n\nA full list of Pfizers subsidiary holdings can be found here\n\nPfizer is organised into nine principal operating divisions: Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Emerging Markets, Established Products, Consumer Healthcare, Nutrition, Animal Health, and Capsugel.\n\nIn May 2015, Pfizer and a Bar-Ilan University laboratory announced a partnership based on the development of medical DNA nanotechnology.\n\nPfizer's research and development activities are organised into two principal groups: the PharmaTherapeutics Research & Development Group, which focuses on the discovery of small molecules and related modalities; and the BioTherapeutics Research & Development Group, which focuses on large-molecule research, including vaccines. In 2007, Pfizer invested $8.1 billion in research and development, the largest R&D investment in the pharmaceutical industry.\n\nPfizer has R&D facilities in the following locations:\n\nIn 2007, Pfizer announced plans to close or sell the Loughbeg API facility, located at Loughbeg, Ringaskiddy, Cork, Ireland by mid to end of 2008. In 2007, Pfizer announced plans to completely close the Ann Arbor, Nagoya and Amboise Research facilities by the end of 2008, eliminating 2,160 jobs and idling the $300 million Michigan facility, which in recent years had seen expansion worth millions of dollars.\n\nOn June 18, 2007, Pfizer announced it would move the Animal Health Research (VMRD) division based in Sandwich, England, to Kalamazoo, Michigan. On February 1, 2011, Pfizer announced the closure of the Research and Development centre in Sandwich, with the loss of 2,400 jobs. Pfizer subsequently announced it would be maintaining a significant presence at Sandwich, with around 650 staff continuing to be based at the site.\n\nOn September 1, 2011, Pfizer announced it had agreed to a 10-year lease of more than 180,000 square feet of research space from MIT in a building to be constructed just north of the MIT campus in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The space will house Pfizer's Cardiovascular, Metabolic and Endocrine Disease Research Unit and its Neuroscience Research Unit; Pfizer anticipated moving into the space once it was completed in late 2013.\n\nAs of 2013, products in Pfizer's development pipeline included dimebon and tanezumab.\n\nIn 2018, Pfizer announced that it would end its work on research into treatments for Alzheimer's disease and Parkinsonism (a symptom of Parkinson's disease and other conditions). The company stated that approximately 300 researchers would lose their jobs as a result.\n\nThe current Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chairman of the Board is Ian Read.\n\nKey current and historical Pfizer products include:\n\n\n\nIn addition to marketing branded pharmaceuticals, Pfizer is involved in the manufacture and sale of generics. In the US it does this through its Greenstone subsidiary, which it acquired as part of the acquisition of Pharmacia. Pfizer also has a licensing deal in place with Aurobindo, which grants the former access to a variety of oral solid generic products.\n\nAccess to Wyeth internal documents has revealed marketing strategies used to promote Neurontin for off-label use. In 1993, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved gabapentin (Neurontin, Pfizer) only for treatment of seizures. Warner–Lambert, which merged with Pfizer in 2000, used activities not usually associated with sales promotion, including continuing medical education and research, sponsored articles about the drug for the medical literature, and alleged suppression of unfavorable study results, to promote gabapentin. Within 5 years the drug was being widely used for the off-label treatment of pain and psychiatric conditions. Warner–Lambert admitted to charges that it violated FDA regulations by promoting the drug for pain, psychiatric conditions, migraine, and other unapproved uses, and paid $430 million to resolve criminal and civil health care liability charges. A recent Cochrane review concluded that gabapentin is ineffective in migraine prophylaxis. The American Academy of Neurology rates it as having unproven efficacy, while the Canadian Headache Society and the European Federation of Neurological Societies rate its use as being supported by moderate and low-quality evidence, respectively.\n\nIn September 2009, Pfizer agreed to pay $2.3 billion to settle civil and criminal allegations that it had illegally marketed four drugs—Bextra, Geodon, Zyvox, and Lyrica—for non-approved uses; it was Pfizer's fourth such settlement in a decade. The payment included $1.3 billion in criminal penalties for felony violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and $1 billion to settle allegations it had illegally promoted the drugs for uses that were not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and caused false claims to be submitted to Federal and State programs. The criminal fine was the largest ever assessed in the United States up to that time. Pfizer has entered an extensive corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General and will be required to make substantial structural reforms within the company, and maintain the Pfizer website (www.pfizer.com/pmc) to track the company's post marketing commitments. Pfizer had to also put a searchable database of all payments to physicians the company had made on the Pfizer website by March 31, 2010.\n\nPeter Rost was vice president in charge of the endocrinology division at Pharmacia before and during its acquisition by Pfizer. During that time he raised concerns internally about kickbacks and off-label marketing of Genotropin, Pharmacia's human growth hormone drug. Pfizer reported the Pharmacia marketing practices to the FDA and Department of Justice; Rost was unaware of this and filed an FCA lawsuit against Pfizer. Pfizer kept him on, but isolated him until the FCA suit was unsealed in 2005. The Justice Department declined to intervene, and Pfizer fired him, and he filed a wrongful termination suit against Pfizer. Pfizer won a summary dismissal of the case, with the court ruling that the evidence showed Pfizer had decided to fire Rost prior to learning of his whistleblower activities.\n\nA \"whistleblower suit\" was filed in 2005 against Wyeth, which was acquired by Pfizer in 2009, alleging that the company illegally marketed their drug Rapamune. Wyeth is targeted in the suit for off-label marketing, targeting specific doctors and medical facilities to increase sales of Rapamune, trying to get current transplant patients to change from their current transplant drugs to Rapamune and for specifically targeting African-Americans. According to the whistleblowers, Wyeth also provided doctors and hospitals with kickbacks to prescribe the drug in the form of grants, donations and other money. In 2013, the company pleaded guilty to criminal mis-branding violations under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. By August 2014 it had paid $491 million in civil and criminal penalties.\n\nAccording to \"Harper's Magazine\" publisher John MacArthur, Pfizer withdrew \"between $400,000 and a million dollars\" worth of ads from their magazine following an unflattering article on depression medication.\n\nPfizer is party to a number of lawsuits stemming from its pharmaceutical products as well as the practices of various companies it has merged with or acquired.\n\nPfizer acquired Quigley in 1968, and the division sold asbestos-containing insulation products until the early 1970s. Asbestos victims and Pfizer have been negotiating a settlement deal that calls for Pfizer to pay $430 million to 80 percent of existing plaintiffs. It will also place an additional $535 million into an asbestos settlement trust that will compensate future plaintiffs as well as the remaining 20 percent of current plaintiffs with claims against Pfizer and Quigley. The compensation deal is worth $965 million all up. Of that $535 million, $405 million is in a 40-year note from Pfizer, while $100 million will come from insurance policies.\n\nPfizer purchased Shiley in 1979 at the onset of its Convexo-Concave valve ordeal, involving the Bjork–Shiley heart valve. Approximately 500 people died when defective valves failed and, in 1994, the United States ruled against Pfizer for ~$200 million.\n\nIn 1996, an outbreak of measles, cholera, and bacterial meningitis occurred in Nigeria. Pfizer representatives traveled to Kano, Nigeria to administer an experimental antibiotic, trovafloxacin, to approximately 200 children. Local Kano officials report that more than 50 children died in the experiment, while many others developed mental and physical deformities. The nature and frequency of both fatalities and other adverse outcomes were similar to those historically found among pediatric patients treated for meningitis in sub-Saharan Africa. In 2001, families of the children, as well as the governments of Kano and Nigeria, filed lawsuits regarding the treatment. According to the news program \"Democracy Now!\", \"[r]esearchers did not obtain signed consent forms, and medical personnel said Pfizer did not tell parents their children were getting the experimental drug.\" The lawsuits also accuse Pfizer of using the outbreak to perform unapproved human testing, as well as allegedly under-dosing a control group being treated with traditional antibiotics in order to skew the results of the trial in favor of Trovan. While the specific facts of the case remain in dispute, both Nigerian medical personnel and at least one Pfizer physician have stated that the trial was conducted without regulatory approval.\n\nIn 2007, Pfizer published a Statement of Defense letter. The letter states that the drug's oral form was safer and easier to administer, that Trovan had been used safely in over 5000 Americans prior to the Nigerian trial, that mortality in the patients treated by Pfizer was lower than that observed historically in African meningitis epidemics, and that no unusual side effects, unrelated to meningitis, were observed after 4 weeks.\n\nIn June 2010, the US Supreme Court rejected Pfizer's appeal against a ruling allowing lawsuits by the Nigerian families to proceed.\n\nIn December 2010, WikiLeaks released US diplomatic cables, which indicate that Pfizer had hired investigators to find evidence of corruption against Nigerian attorney general Aondoakaa to persuade him to drop legal action. \"Washington Post\" reporter Joe Stephens, who helped break the story in 2000, called these actions \"dangerously close to blackmail.\" In response, the company has released a press statement describing the allegations as \"preposterous\" and stating that they acted in good faith. Aondoakka, who had allegedly demanded bribes from Pfizer in return for a settlement of the case, was declared unfit for office and had his U.S. visa revoked in association with corruption charges in 2010.\n\nA scientist claims she was infected by a genetically modified virus while working for Pfizer. In her federal lawsuit she says she has been intermittently paralyzed by the Pfizer-designed virus. \"McClain, of Deep River, suspects she was inadvertently exposed, through work by a former Pfizer colleague in 2002 or 2003, to an engineered form of the lentivirus, a virus similar to the one that can lead to acquired immune deficiency syndrome, also known as AIDS.\" The court found that McClain failed to demonstrate that her illness was caused by exposure to the lentivirus, but also that Pfizer violated whistleblower laws.\n\nHealth insurance company Blue Cross Blue Shield (BCBS) filed a lawsuit against Pfizer for reportedly illegally marketing their drugs Bextra, Geodon and Lyrica. BCBS is reporting that Pfizer used \"kickbacks\" and wrongly persuaded doctors to prescribe the drugs. FiercePharma reported that \"According to the suit, the drugmaker not only handed out those \"misleading\" materials on off-label uses, but sent doctors on Caribbean junkets and paid them $2,000 honoraria in return for their listening to lectures about Bextra. More than 5,000 healthcare professionals were entertained at meetings in Bahamas, Virgin Islands, and across the U.S., the suit alleges.\" The case was settled in 2014 for $325M.\n\nControversy arose over the drug \"Celebrex\". Brigham Young University (BYU) said that a professor of chemistry, Dr. Daniel L. Simmons, discovered an enzyme in the 1990s that would later lead towards the development of Celebrex. BYU was originally seeking 15% royalty on sales, which would equate to $9.7 billion. The court filings show that a research agreement was made with Monsanto, whose pharmaceutical business was later acquired by Pfizer, to develop a better aspirin. The enzyme that Dr. Simmons claims to have discovered would induce pain and inflammation while causing gastrointestinal problems, which Celebrex is used to reduce those issues. A battle ensued, lasting over six years, because BYU claimed that Pfizer did not give him credit or compensation while Pfizer claims it had met all obligations regarding the Monsanto agreement. This culminated in a $450 million amicable settlement without going to trial. Pfizer said it would take a $450 million charge against first quarter earnings to settle.\n\nPfizer was discussed as part of the Kelo v. New London case that was decided by U.S. Supreme Court in 2005. In February 1998 Pfzer announced it would build a research facility in New London, Connecticut, and local planners, hoping to promote economic development and build on the influx of jobs the planned facility would bring to the town, created a plan that included seizing property to redevelop it under eminent domain, and local residents sued to stop the seizure. The case went to the Supreme Court, and with regard to Pfizer, the court cited a prior decision that said: \"The record clearly demonstrates that the development plan was not intended to serve the interests of Pfizer, Inc., or any other private entity, but rather, to revitalize the local economy by creating temporary and permanent jobs, generating a significant increase in tax revenue, encouraging spin-off economic activities and maximizing public access to the waterfront”. The Supreme Court allowed the eminent domain to proceed. Pfizer opened the facility in 2001 but abandoned it in 2009, angering residents of the town.\n\nBetween 2002 and 2008, Pfizer reduced its greenhouse emissions by 20%, and committed to reducing emissions by an additional 20% by 2012. In 2012 the company was named to the Carbon Disclosure Project's Carbon Leadership Index in recognition of its efforts to reduced greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nPfizer has inherited Wyeth's liabilities in the American Cyanamid site in Bridgewater, New Jersey. This site is highly toxic and an EPA declared Superfund site. Pfizer has since attempted to remediate this land in order to clean and develop it for future profits and potential public uses. The Sierra Club and the Edison Wetlands Association have come out in opposition to the cleanup plan, arguing that the area is subject to flooding, which could cause pollutants to leach. The EPA considers the plan the most reasonable from considerations of safety and cost-effectiveness, arguing that an alternative plan involving trucking contaminated soil off site could expose cleanup workers. The EPA's position is backed by the environmental watchdog group CRISIS.\n\nIn June 2002, a chemical explosion at the Groton plant injured seven people and caused the evacuation of over 100 homes in the surrounding area.\n\nPfizer is a leading member of the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition, a Washington D.C.-based coalition of over 400 major companies and NGOs that advocates for a larger International Affairs Budget, which funds American diplomatic, humanitarian, and development efforts abroad.\n\nPfizer is one of the single largest lobbying interests in United States politics. For example, in the first 9 months of 2009 Pfizer spent over $16.3 million on lobbying US congressional lawmakers, making them the sixth largest lobbying interest in the US (following Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), which ranked fourth but also represents many of their interests). A spokeswoman for Pfizer said the company “wanted to make sure our voice is heard in this conversation” in regards to the company's expenditure of $25 million in 2010 to lobby health care reform.\n\nAccording to U.S. State Department cables released by the whistleblower site WikiLeaks, Pfizer \"lobbied against New Zealand getting a free trade agreement with the United States because it objected to New Zealand’s restrictive drug buying rules and tried to get rid of New Zealand’s former health minister, Helen Clark, in 1990.\n\nSince 2004, Pfizer has received a 100% rating every year on the Corporate Equality Index, released by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation.\n\nIn 2012, Pfizer's Canadian division, which then employed 2,890 people, was named one of Montreal's Top 15 Employers, the only research-based pharmaceutical company to receive this honor.\n\nPfizer makes the anti-fungal drug fluconazole available free of charge to governmental and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in developing countries with a greater than 1% prevalence of HIV/AIDS. The company has also pledged to provide up to 740 million doses of its anti-pneumococcal vaccine at discounted rates to infants and young children in 41 developing countries in association with the GAVI Alliance.\n\nIn 2012, Pfizer and the Gates Foundation announced a joint effort to provide affordable access to Pfizer's long-lasting injectable contraceptive, medroxyprogesterone acetate, to three million women in developing countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "54246764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54246764", "title": "Planet of the Apps", "text": "Planet of the Apps\n\nPlanet of the Apps is an American reality television show broadcast on Apple Music. It is the first original television show produced by Apple. On July 23, 2018, it was announced that Apple had canceled the series after one season.\n\nOn each of the episode, software makers have 60 seconds to pitch their idea in front of the judges (Jessica Alba, Gwyneth Paltrow, will.i.am and Gary Vaynerchuk) on a slow-moving escalator—for a visual idea of an \"elevator pitch\". New episodes were released on Tuesdays, with the first season being 10 episodes long. The series is hosted by Zane Lowe and produced by Ben Silverman. The series premiered on June 6, 2017.\n\nThe premiere episode aired exclusively on Apple TV and debuted the following apps: \n\n\nSource:\n"}
{"id": "1326228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1326228", "title": "Price system", "text": "Price system\n\nIn economics, a price system is a component of any economic system that uses prices expressed in any form of money for the valuation and distribution of goods and services and the factors of production. Except for possible remote and primitive communities, all modern societies use price systems to allocate resources, although price systems are not used exclusively for all resource allocation decisions.\n\nA price system may be either a fixed price system where prices are administered by a government body, or it may be a free price system where prices are left to float \"freely\" as determined by supply and demand uninhibited by regulations. A mixed price system involves a combination of both administered and unregulated prices.\n\nPrice systems have been around as long as there has been money. \n\nThe price system has evolved into the system of global capitalism that is present in the early 21st century. The Soviet Union and other Communist states with a centralized planned economy maintained controlled price systems. Whether the ruble or the dollar is used in the economic system, the criterion of a price system is the use of money as an arbiter and usual final arbiter of whether a thing is done or not. In other words, few things are done without consideration for the monetary costs and the potential making of a profit in a price system.\n\nThe American economist Thorstein Veblen wrote a seminal tract on the development of the term as discussed in this article: \"The Engineers and the Price System\". Its chapter VI, \"A Memorandum on a Practicable Soviet of Technicians\" discusses the possibility of socialist revolution in the United States comparable to that then occurring in Russia (the Soviets had not yet at that time become a state (USSR formed in 1922)).\n\nThe original conception of socialism involved the substitution of money as a unit of calculation and monetary prices as a whole with calculation in kind (or valuation based on natural units), with business and financial decisions replaced by engineering and technical criteria for managing the economy. Fundamentally, this meant that socialism would operate under different economic dynamics than those of capitalism and the price system. \n\nIn the 1930s, the economists Oskar Lange and Abba Lerner developed a comprehensive model of a socialist economy that utilized a price system and money for the allocation of capital goods. In contrast to a free-market price system, \"socialist\" prices would be set by a planning board to equal the marginal cost of production to achieve neoclassical Pareto efficiency. Because this model of socialism relied upon money and administered prices as opposed to non-monetary calculation in physical magnitudes, it was labelled \"market socialism\". In effect, Oskar Lange conceded that calculations in a socialist system would have to be performed in value terms with a functioning price system rather than using purely natural or engineering criteria as in the classic concept of socialism.\n\nAustrian School economist Friedrich Hayek argued that a free price system allowed economic coordination via the price signals that changing prices send, which is regarded as one of his most significant and influential contributions to economics.\n\nIn \"The Use of Knowledge in Society\" (1945), Hayek wrote, \"The price system is just one of those formations which man has learned to use (though he is still very far from having learned to make the best use of it) after he had stumbled upon it without understanding it. Through it not only a division of labor but also a coördinated utilization of resources based on an equally divided knowledge has become possible. The people who like to deride any suggestion that this may be so usually distort the argument by insinuating that it asserts that by some miracle just that sort of system has spontaneously grown up which is best suited to modern civilization. It is the other way round: man has been able to develop that division of labor on which our civilization is based because he happened to stumble upon a method which made it possible. Had he not done so, he might still have developed some other, altogether different, type of civilization, something like the \"state\" of the termite ants, or some other altogether unimaginable type.\"\n"}
{"id": "38252698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38252698", "title": "Rapid Results", "text": "Rapid Results\n\nRapid Results is a structured process that mobilizes teams to achieve tangible results over a rapid time frame and accelerate organizational learning. Schaffer Consulting, a management consulting firm headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, developed the Rapid Results approach based on their experience working with clients across industries to achieve breakthrough levels of performance. The approach and its practitioners have since been recognized in \"The New York Times\", \"Harvard Business Review\", and \"Foreign Policy\", among other publications. In 2007, Schaffer Consulting founded the Rapid Results Institute (RRI) to refine the methodology to support non-profit work and development projects across Sub-Saharan Africa, South America, the United States, and the Middle East.\n\nThe objective of Rapid Results initiatives is to achieve dramatic results, formed under the pressure of short time frames and ambitious targets. Rapid Results initiatives begin with a call to action for significant performance improvement delivered by a single leader or group of leaders to cross-functional teams of 8-10 people. Team members then set and commit to \"seemingly unreasonable\" short-term goals — often in 100 days or less — tied to the strategic imperatives outlined by their leaders. Teams then experiment with new ways of working, capturing learnings along the way, and persisting until they achieve desired outcomes. Rapid Results aims to stimulate innovation, collaboration, and more effective execution in and across organizations and stakeholder groups. Leaders leverage initial results to create longer-term and wider-scale impact in subsequent waves of Rapid Results projects.\n\nLeaders in many industries leverage Rapid Results to achieve performance goals, including accelerating growth, increasing productivity, and realizing cost savings.\n\nLynn Chambers, group head of Talent at the London Stock Exchange Group, says, “This approach can be taken to accelerate progress on almost any goal.” Dean Scarborough, president and chief executive officer of Avery Dennison describes Rapid Results “driving an incredible amount of creativity” among team members. Martha Marsh, former president and CEO of Stanford Hospital and Clinics, observes that Rapid Results “provide an intense focus on getting results, while helping build the capacity of our organization to drive transformational change.”\n\nFormed in 2007, the Rapid Results Institute works with a broad range of partners — including government agencies, not-for-profit organizations, and international development agencies — across a wide spectrum of development initiatives. Past and ongoing projects include H.I.V. prevention in Eritrea and Ethiopia, public sector reform in Kenya, waste management in Brazil, and housing homeless veterans in the United States.\n\nThe Rapid Results Institute is partnering with the 100,000 Homes Campaign and the US Department of Veterans Affairs to house homeless veterans across the United States.\n\nFollowing a project on HIV/AIDS awareness among youth, Eritrean Minister of Education Osman Saleh called the Rapid Results approach \"a new movement.\" In Kenya, an independent evaluation by the AIDS Research and Treatment journal reported that “significant improvement in PMTCT [prevention of mother-to-child-transmission] services can be achieved through introduction of an RRI [Rapid Results Initiative], which appears to lead to sustained benefits for pregnant HIV-infected women and their infants.”\n\nDue to its success in a variety of contexts, the Rapid Results approach has been adopted by the World Bank, as well as by many Kenyan government ministries.\n\n"}
{"id": "34161736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34161736", "title": "Richard Schaefer", "text": "Richard Schaefer\n\nRichard Schaefer is a Swiss professional boxing promoter. He was the former CEO of Golden Boy Promotions, which he left in 2014.\n\nSchaefer grew up in Switzerland. He is a Swiss national who began his career in 1983 at Swiss Volksbank (now Credit Suisse). Upon graduation from the Swiss Banking School, a division of the Swiss Finance Institute, he became manager of the Swiss Bank office in Los Angeles in 1994. Two years later, Swiss Bank took over UBS (the largest bank in Switzerland). The surviving entity was UBS. Schaefer was placed in charge of operations for the western United States. In 1997, he was named deputy CEO of all UBS private banking operations in the United States. At the time, UBS oversaw two trillion dollars in assets with private banking at the core.\n\nHe stunned his wife and three kids and gave up banking in 2000 to join Oscar De La Hoya's fledgling business organization, to help the young boxer \"build up a business empire.\" Schaefer first focused on the business of managing fighters, but soon switched tracks to the more lucrative event promotion business, lining up deals for the several major boxing matches for the past 15 years.\n\nMore recently, Schaefer has branched out into real estate. Schaefer has other links to Hispanic culture as well: His wife is from Mexico.\n\nIn 2016, Schaefer founded his own boxing promotional company called Ringstar Sports. Schaefer announced the World Boxing Super Series in March 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "46641532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46641532", "title": "Ronnie Cowan (politician)", "text": "Ronnie Cowan (politician)\n\nRonnie Cowan is a Scottish National Party (SNP) politician. He has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Inverclyde since the 2015 general election.\n\nHe is the son of Morton and Scotland football goalkeeper Jimmy Cowan. Cowan is from Greenock, and was educated at Greenock Academy. He is an owner of an IT service company.\n\n"}
{"id": "5374156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5374156", "title": "Sergio Zyman", "text": "Sergio Zyman\n\nSergio Zyman (born July 30, 1945) is a marketing executive from Mexico best known as the marketer behind the failed launch of New Coke, now regarded as one of the greatest marketing blunders of all time.\n\nA cover story in Fortune Magazine from May 1, 1995 referred to New Coke as the biggest marketing blunder since the launch of Ford's Edsel. New Coke was a reformulation of the original Coca-Cola flavor. After significant consumer opposition, the original flavor was reintroduced after 77 days. \n\n\"Fortune Magazine\" reported:\nZyman, then head of U.S. marketing, was coming off his enormously successful introduction of diet Coke when he was assigned day-to-day responsibility for top-secret Project Kansas in 1984. The zealous Mexican insisted that Coca-Cola (or Co-Coola, as he pronounces it) must act boldly to reverse its 20-year market-share decline vs. Pepsi. Zyman, a former Pepsi marketer, argued that the correct strategy was to replace 98-year-old Coke with a better-tasting cola, label it New Coke,\" and blare the news--which is exactly what the company did one decade ago this April. Zyman's greatest error, which some attribute to ego, was that he and his team failed to present the option of keeping old Coke on the market.\n\nZyman's work experience includes tenures with Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, and Procter & Gamble, and his own firm Zyman Group. He is also known for helping introduce Diet Coke in 1982 and conceiving Fruitopia in 1994. \n\nAfter leaving the Coca-Cola Company, Zyman launched a consulting firm called the Zyman Group, which he sold to MDC Partners Inc., a Canadian advertising firm holding company, for around $60 million in April 2005. He was replaced there as Chairman by Scott Miller, formerly with McCann Erickson. The Zyman Group is no longer in business. \n\nSergio Zyman was most recently a director of Upstream Worldwide, the parent company of uSell.com, but he has been replaced there and is no longer on the Executive Team. He worked with JC Penney as a Marketing Consultant, but was fired by Chief Operating Officer Mike Ullman.\n\nSergio Zyman is of Mexican Jewish heritage and is originally a native of Mexico City. He attended executive programs at Harvard University and graduate schools in London, Paris and Jerusalem though his professional resume does not list a graduate degree.\n\nZyman has written four books on marketing and advertising, including:\n"}
{"id": "10419770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10419770", "title": "Sir John Cargill, 1st Baronet", "text": "Sir John Cargill, 1st Baronet\n\nSir John Traill Cargill, 1st Baronet, DL, JP (10 January 1867 – 24 January 1954) was a Scottish oil magnate.\n\nCargill was born in Glasgow, the second son of David Sime Cargill, founder of the Burmah Oil Company, and his first wife Margaret (née Traill), who died when he was five. He was educated at Glasgow Academy from 1878 to 1883, and in 1890 went to Burma to work in the Rangoon office of his father's company, returning to Glasgow three years later. In 1904, he succeeded his father as chairman of the company, remaining in the post until 1943. He was also chairman of Scottish Oils Ltd from 1922 to 1943. He largely served as figurehead of these companies, leaving the real running of them to their managing directors. He was also a director of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company and the Assam Oil Company.\n\nCargill was created a baronet, of Glasgow, in the 1920 New Year Honours. He was a Deputy Lieutenant of Glasgow and a member of the court of the University of Glasgow, which awarded him an honorary Doctorate of Laws (LLD) in 1929.\n\nIn 1895, he married Mary Hope Walker Grierson, sister of Lieutenant-General Sir James Moncrieff Grierson. They had a daughter, Allison Hope Cargill (born 13 August 1896), but no sons, and the baronetcy became extinct upon Cargill's death. His wife died in 1929 and in 1943 he retired to a nursing home in Edinburgh, where he died. He was buried in Hillfoot Cemetery in Glasgow. He left large benefactions to the University of Glasgow and the University of Rangoon.\n\n"}
{"id": "22599356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22599356", "title": "SmartStax", "text": "SmartStax\n\nSmartStax is a brand of genetically modified seed made through a collaboration between Monsanto Company and Dow Chemical Company. It takes advantage of multiple modes of insect protection and herbicide tolerance. SmartStax takes advantage of Yieldgard VT Triple (Monsanto), Herculex Xtra (Dow), RoundUp Ready 2 (Monsanto), and Liberty Link (Dow). The traits included protect against above-ground insects, below-ground insects, and provide broad herbicide tolerance. It is currently available for corn, but cotton, soybean, and specialty crop variations are to be released. Previously, the most genes artificially added to a single plant was three, but Smartstax includes eight. Smartstax also incorporates Monsanto's Acceleron Seed Treatment System which protects against insects at the earliest stages of development. Smartstax is sold under the Genuity (Monsanto) and Mycogen (Dow) brands.\n\nSmartStax seeds control a broad spectrum of pests which includes larvae of above-ground insects such as European corn borer, black cutworm, southwestern corn borer, corn earworm, fall armyworm, western bean cutworm, and below-ground feeding larvae of western corn rootworm and northern corn rootworm.\n\nTo prevent or delay insect resistance, growers plant a refuge on their farm. This is an area of non-GM plants where insect can live. These insect will not evolve resistance to GM technology. These refuge acres ensure that rare resistant insects that feed on insect-protected varieties of corn will mate with susceptible insects and slow the development of resistance.\n\nSmartstax corn has been advertised and promoted on television, at farm trade shows, and online as Monsanto has geared up for widespread commercial release. Smartstax is sold under the Genuity Brand by Monsanto and the Mycogen brand by Dow, but both companies have the right to sell it under as many names with as many additional technologies as they wish.\n\nRecently, rapid emergence of weeds thought to be resistant to Roundup have been observed. Horseweed, giant ragweed and pigweed, among others have been found growing with crops across the United States. Insects including corn rootworm and bollworm have also begun showing signs of resistance. In response, Monsanto has continued to develop new products. The USDA approves use of Bt crops. Monsanto has denied there is a problem with their product.\n"}
{"id": "7461670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7461670", "title": "Tony Rezko", "text": "Tony Rezko\n\nAntoin \"Tony\" Rezko (born 1955) is an American businessman. He was a fundraiser for Illinois Democratic and Republican politicians. After becoming a major contributor to Rod Blagojevich's successful gubernatorial election, Rezko assisted Blagojevich in setting up the state's first Democratic administration in twenty years and as a result he was able to have business associates appointed onto several state boards. Rezko and several others were indicted on federal charges in October 2006 for using their connections on the state boards to demand kickbacks from businesses that wished to engage in dealings with the state. While the others pleaded guilty, Rezko pleaded not guilty and was tried. He was found guilty of 16 of the 24 charges filed against him and on November 23, 2011, he was sentenced to 10.5 years in prison.\n\nTony Rezko was born in 1955 in Aleppo, Syria, to a prominent Syriac Catholic family. After graduating from college there, Rezko moved to Chicago and earned an undergraduate and a master's degree in civil engineering from the Illinois Institute of Technology in the late 1970s. He joined an engineering company, designing nuclear power plants, then left to design roads for the state Transportation Department, making $21,590 in his first year there.\n\nWhile he was an engineer, Rezko started buying vacant lots and developing single family residences. He also began investing in fast-food restaurants, including the first Subway in Chicago. Many properties were in lower-income African American neighborhoods where he met Jabir Herbert (J.H.) Muhammad, former manager of heavyweight champion Muhammad Ali and son of the late Nation of Islam leader, Elijah Muhammad. Rezko was asked in 1983 to support the successful mayoral candidacy of African-American Harold Washington. J.H. Muhammad's company, Crucial Concessions, hired Rezko in 1984 and won a food contract on Lake Michigan beaches and in many South Side parks. Rezko put together endorsement deals for Ali, became the executive director of the Muhammad Ali Foundation, and traveled the world with Ali for five years.\n\nIn 1997, Crucial Concessions opened two Panda Express Restaurants at O'Hare, under the city's minority set-aside program. It lost those franchises in 2005, on the grounds that J.H. Muhammad was merely a front man for Rezko, who had been appointed trustee of Elijah Muhammad's affairs in the early 1990s. In March 2008 Muhammad sued Rezko, alleging that he had been swindled out of his home and business interests.\n\nIn January 1989, Rezko and attorney Daniel Mahru, CEO of a firm that leased ice makers to bars and hotels, founded a real-estate development and restaurant holding corporation called Rezmar Corporation. Between 1989 and 1998, Rezmar rehabilitated 30 buildings, a total of 1,025 apartments, spending more than $100 million from the city, state and federal governments and bank loans. Rezko and Mahru weren't responsible for any government or bank loans or the $50 million in federal tax credits they got to rehab the buildings. Rezmar put just $100 into each project and got a 1% stake as the general partner in charge of hiring the architect, contractor, and the company that would manage the buildings. They selected Chicago Property Management, also owned by Rezko and Mahru, to manage the buildings, including selecting the tenants and making repairs. Rezmar also got upfront development fees of at least $6.9 million in all. Under its deals with the Chicago Equity Fund, Rezmar promised to cover all operating losses in any building for seven years, but had no obligation after that, although the Federal Government could recover the tax credits that Rezmar sold from the holders if the projects did not survive for fifteen years or more. By 1998 the company had a net worth of US$34 million and it then turned to purchasing old factories and parcels of land in gentrifying areas of Chicago and turning them into upscale condominium complexes. Rezko was named \"Entrepreneur of the Decade\" by the Arab-American Business and Professional Association.\n\nRezko's investment in restaurant food chains had started with a chain of Panda Express Chinese restaurants. In 1998, Rezko opened his first chain of Papa John's Pizza restaurants in Chicago and by 2002, he had twenty-six stores in Chicago, at least fifteen in Wisconsin, and seven in Detroit, part of the financing for these stores was through GE Capital. By 2001, Rezko began to fall behind on his franchise payments and loans and he transferred the franchises to several business associates. In 2006, during a lawsuit with Papa John's over his franchise fees, Rezko renamed his Papa John's restaurants to Papa Tony's. Rezko also had a lien filed against his home after losing a civil lawsuit to GE Capital.\n\nAs his business ventures began failing, Rezko entered into several partnership with Iraqi-born business executive Nadhmi Auchi, including a massive 2005 real estate development project on Chicago's South Loop whose value was pegged by an observer familiar with the deal at $130.5 million. In 2008, Rezko was imprisoned for his failure to disclose a $3.5m loan from Auchi.\n\nRezko was later convicted on 16 charges of corruption and fraud and was sentenced to serve 10 1/2 years in prison.\n\nIn October 2006, Rezko was indicted along with businessman Stuart Levine on charges of wire fraud, bribery, money laundering, and attempted extortion as a result of a federal investigation known as \"Operation Board Games.\" Levine was once a top Republican fund-raiser who had switched loyalty in recent years. Rezko and Levine were charged with attempting to extort millions of dollars from businesses seeking to do business with the Illinois Teachers System Board and the Illinois Health Facilities Planning Board from 2002 to 2004. Levine pleaded guilty and agreed to testify against Rezko and others. While the charges carry a maximum sentence of life in prison, Levine expects to receive about a 5-1/2 year sentence in return for his testimony. The case was prosecuted by Patrick Fitzgerald.\n\nRezko pleaded not guilty, and the trial related to his charges from Operation Board Games began on March 6, 2008. He was jailed shortly before the trial began when he received a $3.5 million wire transfer from Lebanon. Rezko had told the court that he had no access to money from overseas. Ten weeks into the trial, on April 18, Judge Amy St. Eve released Rezko, after friends and relatives put up 30 properties valued at about $8.5 million to secure his bond. Prosecutors opposed the motion for release, saying that Rezko was a flight risk. On May 6, both the prosecution and the defense rested their cases. Government prosecutors spent 8 weeks presenting their case. Rezko’s lawyer, Joseph J. Duffy, chose not to present any witnesses, saying that he did not believe that the prosecution had proven the charges. Prosecutors contended that they had shown Rezko's \"corrupt use of his power and influence\" to gain benefits for himself and his friends. Duffy argued that the prosecution had exaggerated Rezko's influence in state government, and attacked Levine's credibility as a witness.\n\nThe case went to the jury on May 13 and after three weeks of deliberation, the jury found Rezko guilty of six counts of wire fraud, six counts of mail fraud, two counts of corrupt solicitation, and two counts of money laundering, but found him not guilty on three counts of wire and mail fraud, one count of attempted extortion, and four counts of corrupt solicitation. According to CBS News the \"high-profile federal trial provided an unusually detailed glimpse of the pay-to-play politics that has made Illinois infamous.\"\n\nWhile the jury was deliberating on the Board Games trial, an arrest warrant was issued in Las Vegas for passing bad checks in two casinos and failing to pay $450,000 in gambling debts that were accrued between March and July 2006. Another casino had also filed a civil complaint for a total of $331,000 in 2006 and was given a judgment of default in 2007.\n\nRezko was indicted, along with a business associate, for wire fraud related to the alleged sale of his pizza business to a straw buyer at an inflated price in order to obtain millions of dollars in loans from GE Capital. Rezko initially pleaded not guilty to these charges. In 2011, Rezko would change his plea to guilty. As part of a plea deal and his agreement to drop his appeal of his previous conviction, Rezko pleaded guilty to wire fraud and was given a 7 1/2 year sentence to run concurrently with the 10 1/2-year sentence he is presently serving for his previous conviction.\n\nIn July 2015 Tony Rezko was released from federal prison to a halfway house in Chicago.\n\nRezko's relationship with Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich and his family were at the root of the federal corruption case which led to Rezko's conviction. Rezko donated $117,652 to Blagojevich's campaigns, and is credited by the prosecutor in his trial with having delivered bundled contributions totalling almost $1.44 million. Since 1997, Blagojevich's wife, Patricia, has made at least $38,000 acting as Rezko's real-estate agent on several of his company's property acquisitions. When Blagojevich won the Illinois gubernatorial election in 2002, Rezko assisted Blagojevich in setting up the state's first Democratic administration in twenty years. Rezko recommended many of his business associates and their relatives for positions within state government, three of whom were appointed to the state board that oversees hospital projects. the state's development board was run by another former Rezko business associate. Rezko and Republican fundraiser Stuart Levine were charged in a 24-count federal indictment for allegedly using Rezko's influence with public officials to demand millions of dollars in kickbacks from companies that wanted to do business with the state. Levine pleaded guilty and served as the chief witness against Rezko at trial. Levine and several other witnesses implicated Blagojevich in the schemes.\n\nThe last indictment in Operation Board Games before Blagojevich himself was indicted was that of William F. Cellini who was indicted for conspiring with Rezko to shake down Chicago-based Capri Capital to get a substantial contribution to Blagojevich in exchange for allowing Capri to manage $220 million in the Teachers Retirement System. After Thomas Rosenberg of Capri threatened to tell authorities, the plan was abandoned. Capri has substantial investments in the Watergate complex and King Abdullah Economic City.\n\nIn 1990, after Barack Obama was elected president of the \"Harvard Law Review\", Rezmar Corp. offered him a job, which Obama turned down. Obama instead took a job with the firm of Davis, Miner, Barnhill & Galland, which primarily worked on civil rights cases. The firm also represented Rezmar and helped the company get more than $43 million in government funding. The firm's former senior partner, Allison S. Davis, later went into business with Rezko and, in 2003, was appointed to the Illinois State Board of Investment by Governor Blagojevich at Rezko's request. On July 31, 1995, the first ever political contributions to Obama were $300 from a lawyer, a $5,000 loan from a car dealer, and $2,000 from two food companies owned by Rezko. Starting in 2003, Rezko was one of the people on Obama's U.S. Senate campaign finance committee, which raised more than $14 million. Rezko organized an early fundraiser for Obama that Chicago Tribune reporter David Mendell claims was instrumental in providing Obama with seed money for his U.S. Senate race. Obama in 2007-2008 identified over $250,000 in campaign contributions to various Obama campaigns as coming from Rezko or close associates, and said that he donated almost two-thirds of that amount to nonprofit groups.\n\nIn 2005 Obama purchased a new home in the Kenwood District of Chicago for $1.65 million (which was $300,000 below the asking price but represented the highest offer on the property) on the same day that Rezko's wife, Rita Rezko, purchased the adjoining empty lot from the same sellers for the full asking price. Obama acknowledged bringing his interest in the property to Rezko's attention, but denied any coordination of offers. According to Obama, while the properties had originally been a single property, the previous owners decided to sell the land as two separate lots, but made it a condition of the sales that they be closed on the same date. Obama also stated that the properties had been on the market for months, that his offer was the better of two bids, and that Ms. Rezko's bid was matched by another offer, also of $625,000, so that she could not have purchased the property for less.\n\nAfter it had been reported in 2006 that Rezko was under federal investigation for influence-peddling, Obama purchased a 10-foot-wide strip of Ms. Rezko's property for $104,500, $60,000 above the assessed value. According to \"Chicago Sun-Times\" columnist, Mark Brown, \"Rezko definitely did Obama a favor by selling him the 10-foot strip of land, making his own parcel less attractive for development.\" Obama acknowledges that the exchange may have created the appearance of impropriety and stated \"I consider this a mistake on my part and I regret it.\"\n\nOn December 28, 2006, Mrs. Rezko sold the property to a company owned by her husband's former business attorney. That sale of $575,000, combined with the earlier $104,500 sale to the Obamas, amounted to a net profit of $54,500 over her original purchase, less $14,000 for a fence along the property line and other expenses. In October 2007, the new owners put the still vacant land up for sale again, this time for $1.5 million.\n\nIn June 2007, the \"Sun-Times\" published a story about letters Obama had written in 1997 to city and state officials in support of a low-income senior citizen development project headed by Rezko and Davis. The project received more than $14 million in taxpayer funds, including $885,000 in development fees for Rezko and Davis. Of Obama's letters in support of the Cottage View Terrace apartments development, Obama spokesman Bill Burton said, \"This wasn't done as a favor for anyone; it was done in the interests of the people in the community who have benefited from the project. I don't know that anyone specifically asked him to write this letter nine years ago. There was a consensus in the community about the positive impact the project would make and Obama supported it because it was going to help people in his district.\" Rezko's attorney responded that \"Mr. Rezko never spoke with, nor sought a letter from, Senator Obama in connection with that project.\n\nIn the South Carolina Democratic Party presidential debate on January 21, 2008, Senator Hillary Clinton said that Obama had been associated with Rezko, whom she referred to as a slum landlord. The \"Los Angeles Times\" indicated that its own review showed Rezko played a deeper role in Obama's political and financial biography than Obama has acknowledged. Within days of the debate, a photo of Rezko posing with Bill and Hillary Clinton surfaced. When asked about the photo, Hillary Clinton commented: \"I probably have taken hundreds of thousands of pictures. I wouldn't know him if he walked in the door.\"\n\nRezko's first significant political act was hosting a fundraiser for Harold Washington during Washington's successful campaign to become Chicago's mayor. He has since raised funds for many other politicians. In addition to Blagojevich and Obama, prominent Democrats that Rezko or his company, Rezmar, have contributed money to, or fund-raised for, are Congressman Luis Gutierrez, a friend for over two decades, Comptroller Dan Hynes, Attorney General Lisa Madigan, Lieutenant Governor Pat Quinn, former Chicago Mayors Daley and Washington, and former Cook County Board President John Stroger. Rezko has also raised money for Republicans, including former Illinois Governors Jim Edgar and George Ryan. The late Rosemont, Illinois, Mayor Donald Stephens and Rezko co-chaired a multimillion-dollar fund-raiser for President George W. Bush in 2003.\n\nRezko headed the 2002 campaign finance committee for Stroger. Stroger appointed Rezko's wife, Rita, to the Cook County Employee Appeals Board, which hears cases brought by fired or disciplined workers. The part-time post pays $37,000 a year. A Rezko company had a contract to maintain pay telephones at the Cook County Jail under Stroger. The \"Chicago Sun-Times\" puts Rezko's contributions to Stroger at $148,300.\n\n"}
{"id": "1463598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1463598", "title": "Vremya Novostei", "text": "Vremya Novostei\n\nVremya Novostei (, translated as \"News Time\") was a Russian business socio-political daily newspaper based in Moscow.\n\n\"Vremya Novostei\" was founded in 2000 by former \"Vremya MN\" newspaper journalists led by editor-in-chief Vladimir Gurevich retiring in consequence of the non-payment of wages. The first issue was published on March 16, 2000, and the last issue was published on December 17, 2010.\n\nIn February 2011, \"Vremya Novostei\" was relaunched as \"Moskovskiye Novosti\", but ceased publication in February 2014.\n"}
