{"id": "46881627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46881627", "title": "2nd Amendment Day", "text": "2nd Amendment Day\n\n2nd Amendment Day is a public awareness day observed in the United States. Its purpose is to raise awareness of and support for the fundamental right to keep and bear arms, which is codified in the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution. This amendment, along with the nine others ratified on December 15, 1791, comprise the Constitution's Bill of Rights.\n\nOklahoma observes 2nd Amendment Day on June 28. This is because the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in favor of the 2nd Amendment in the case of \"McDonald v. City of Chicago\" on June 28, 2010.\nPennsylvania observes 2nd Amendment Day on the fourth Tuesday of May.\n\nSouth Carolina legislators passed the Second Amendment Education Act, which is a two-fold move to protect gun rights in state schools. First, it would establish Second Amendment Awareness Day each year on Dec. 15. The day would be highlighted by a poster and essay contest in which students of all grades would be encouraged to submit entries on the theme of “The Right to Bear Arms; One American Right Protecting All Others.” From the submissions, the South Carolina Legislative Sportsmen’s Caucus would select statewide winners.\n\n"}
{"id": "149223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149223", "title": "Borderline personality disorder", "text": "Borderline personality disorder\n\nBorderline personality disorder (BPD), also known as emotionally unstable personality disorder (EUPD), is a long-term pattern of abnormal behavior characterized by unstable relationships with other people, unstable sense of self and unstable emotions. There is often dangerous behavior and self-harm. People may also struggle with a feeling of emptiness and a fear of abandonment. Symptoms may be brought on by seemingly normal events. The behavior typically begins by early adulthood and occurs across a variety of situations. Substance abuse, depression, and eating disorders are commonly associated with BPD. Up to 10% of people affected die by suicide.\nBPD's causes are unclear but seem to involve genetic, brain, environmental and social factors. It occurs about five times more often in a person who has an affected close relative. Adverse life events also appear to play a role. The underlying mechanism appears to involve the frontolimbic network of neurons. BPD is recognized by the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM) as a personality disorder, along with nine other such disorders. Diagnosis is based on the symptoms, while a medical examination may be done to rule out other problems. The condition must be differentiated from an identity problem or substance use disorders, among other possibilities.\nBorderline personality disorder is typically treated with therapy, such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). Another type, dialectical behavior therapy (DBT), may reduce the risk of suicide. Therapy may occur one-on-one, or in a group. While medications do not cure BPD, they may be used to help with the associated symptoms. Some people require care in hospital.\nAbout 1.6% of people have BPD in a given year. Females are diagnosed about three times as often as males. It appears to become less common among older people. Up to half of people improve over a ten-year period. People affected typically use a high amount of healthcare resources. There is an ongoing debate about the naming of the disorder, especially the suitability of the word \"borderline\". The disorder is often stigmatized in both the media and the psychiatric field.\nBorderline personality disorder may be characterized by the following signs and symptoms:\nThe most distinguishing symptoms of BPD are marked sensitivity to rejection or criticism, and intense fear of possible abandonment. Overall, the features of BPD include unusually intense sensitivity in relationships with others, difficulty regulating emotions, and impulsivity. Fear of abandonment may lead to overlapping dating relationships as a new relationship is developed to protect against abandonment in the existing relationship. Other symptoms may include feeling unsure of one's personal identity, morals, and values; having paranoid thoughts when feeling stressed; depersonalization; and, in moderate to severe cases, stress-induced breaks with reality or psychotic episodes.\n\nPeople with BPD may feel emotions with greater ease, depth and for a longer time than others do. A core characteristic of BPD is affective instability, which generally manifests as unusually intense emotional responses to environmental triggers, with a slower return to a baseline emotional state. People with BPD often engage in idealization and devaluation of others, alternating between high positive regard for people and great disappointment in them. In Marsha Linehan's view, the sensitivity, intensity, and duration with which people with BPD feel emotions have both positive and negative effects. People with BPD are often exceptionally enthusiastic, idealistic, joyful, and loving. However, they may feel overwhelmed by negative emotions (\"anxiety, depression, guilt/shame, worry, anger, etc.\"), experiencing intense grief instead of sadness, shame and humiliation instead of mild embarrassment, rage instead of annoyance, and panic instead of nervousness.\n\nPeople with BPD are also especially sensitive to feelings of rejection, criticism, isolation, and perceived failure. Before learning other coping mechanisms, their efforts to manage or escape from their very negative emotions may lead to emotional isolation, self-injury or suicidal behavior. They are often aware of the intensity of their negative emotional reactions and, since they cannot regulate them, they shut them down entirely. This can be harmful to people with BPD, since negative emotions alert people to the presence of a problematic situation and move them to address it which the person with BPD would normally be aware of only to cause further distress. People with BPD may feel emotional relief after cutting themselves.\n\nWhile people with BPD feel euphoria (ephemeral or occasional intense joy), they are especially prone to dysphoria (a profound state of unease or dissatisfaction), depression, and/or feelings of mental and emotional distress. Zanarini et al. recognized four categories of dysphoria that are typical of this condition: extreme emotions, destructiveness or self-destructiveness, feeling fragmented or lacking identity, and feelings of victimization. Within these categories, a BPD diagnosis is strongly associated with a combination of three specific states: feeling betrayed, feeling out of control, and \"feeling like hurting myself\". Since there is great variety in the types of dysphoria experienced by people with BPD, the amplitude of the distress is a helpful indicator of borderline personality disorder. In addition to intense emotions, people with BPD experience emotional \"lability\"; or in other words, changeability. Although the term emotional lability suggests rapid changes between depression and elation, the mood swings in people with this condition actually fluctuate more frequently between anger and anxiety and between depression and anxiety.\n\nImpulsive behavior is common, including substance or alcohol abuse, eating disorders, unprotected sex or indiscriminate sex with multiple partners, reckless spending, and reckless driving. Impulsive behavior may also include leaving jobs or relationships, running away, and self-injury. People with BPD act impulsively because it gives them the feeling of immediate relief from their emotional pain. However, in the long term, people with BPD suffer increased pain from the shame and guilt that follow such actions. A cycle often begins in which people with BPD feel emotional pain, engage in impulsive behavior to relieve that pain, feel shame and guilt over their actions, feel emotional pain from the shame and guilt, and then experience stronger urges to engage in impulsive behavior to relieve the new pain. As time goes on, impulsive behavior may become an automatic response to emotional pain.\n\nSelf-harming or suicidal behavior is one of the core diagnostic criteria in the DSM-5. Self-harm occurs in 50 to 80% of people with BPD. The most frequent method of self-harm is cutting. Bruising, burning, head banging or biting are not uncommon with BPD.\nThe lifetime risk of suicide among people with BPD is between 3% and 10%. There is evidence that men diagnosed with BPD are approximately twice as likely to die by suicide as women diagnosed with BPD. There is also evidence that a considerable percentage of men who die by suicide may have undiagnosed BPD.\nThe reported reasons for self-harm differ from the reasons for suicide attempts. Nearly 70% of people with BPD self-harm without trying to end their life. Reasons for self-harm include expressing anger, self-punishment, generating normal feelings (often in response to dissociation), and distracting oneself from emotional pain or difficult circumstances. In contrast, suicide attempts typically reflect a belief that others will be better off following the suicide. Both suicide and self-harm are a response to feeling negative emotions. Sexual abuse can be a particular trigger for suicidal behavior in adolescents with BPD tendencies.\n\nPeople with BPD can be very sensitive to the way others treat them, by feeling intense joy and gratitude at perceived expressions of kindness, and intense sadness or anger at perceived criticism or hurtfulness. Their feelings about others often shift from admiration or love to anger or dislike after a disappointment, a threat of losing someone, or a perceived loss of esteem in the eyes of someone they value. This phenomenon, sometimes called splitting, includes a shift from idealizing others to devaluing them. Combined with mood disturbances, idealization and devaluation can undermine relationships with family, friends, and co-workers. Self-image can also change rapidly from healthy to unhealthy.\n\nWhile strongly desiring intimacy, people with BPD tend toward insecure, avoidant or ambivalent, or fearfully preoccupied attachment patterns in relationships, and they often view the world as dangerous and malevolent. BPD, like other personality disorders, is linked to increased levels of chronic stress and conflict in romantic relationships, decreased satisfaction on the part of romantic partners, abuse, and unwanted pregnancy.\n\nPeople with BPD tend to have trouble seeing a clear picture of their identity. In particular, they tend to have difficulty knowing what they value, believe, prefer, and enjoy. They are often unsure about their long-term goals for relationships and jobs. This difficulty with knowing who they are and what they value can cause people with BPD to experience feeling \"empty\" and \"lost\".\n\nThe often intense emotions experienced by people with BPD can make it difficult for them to control the focus of their attention—to concentrate. In addition, people with BPD may tend to dissociate, which can be thought of as an intense form of \"zoning out\". Dissociation often occurs in response to experiencing a painful event (or experiencing something that triggers the memory of a painful event). It involves the mind automatically redirecting attention away from that event, presumably to protect against experiencing intense emotion and unwanted behavioral impulses that such emotion might otherwise trigger. Although the mind's habit of blocking out intense painful emotions may provide temporary relief, it can also have the unwanted side effect of blocking or blunting the experience of ordinary emotions, reducing the access of people with BPD to the information contained in those emotions, which helps guide effective decision-making in daily life. Sometimes, it is possible for another person to tell when someone with BPD is dissociating, because their facial or vocal expressions may become flat or expressionless, or they may appear to be distracted; at other times, dissociation may be barely noticeable.\n\nMany people with BPD are able to work if they find appropriate jobs and their condition is not too severe. People with BPD may be found to have a disability in the workplace, if the condition is severe enough that the behaviors of sabotaging relationships, engaging in risky behaviors, or intense anger prevent the person from functioning in their professional role.\n\nAs is the case with other mental disorders, the causes of BPD are complex and not fully agreed upon. Evidence suggests that BPD and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) may be related in some way. Most researchers agree that a history of childhood trauma can be a contributing factor, but less attention has historically been paid to investigating the causal roles played by congenital brain abnormalities, genetics, neurobiological factors, and environmental factors other than trauma.\n\nSocial factors include how people interact in their early development with their family, friends, and other children. Psychological factors include the individual's personality and temperament, shaped by their environment and learned coping skills that deal with stress. These different factors together suggest that there are multiple factors that may contribute to the disorder.\n\nThe heritability of BPD has been estimated at 40%. That is, 40 percent of the variability in liability underlying BPD in the population can be explained by genetic differences. Twin studies may overestimate the effect of genes on variability in personality disorders due to the complicating factor of a shared family environment. Nonetheless, the researchers of this study concluded that personality disorders \"seem to be more strongly influenced by genetic effects than almost any axis I disorder [e.g., bipolar disorder, depression, eating disorders], and more than most broad personality dimensions.\" Moreover, the study found that BPD was estimated to be the third most-heritable personality disorder out of the 10 personality disorders reviewed. Twin, sibling, and other family studies indicate partial heritability for impulsive aggression, but studies of serotonin-related genes have suggested only modest contributions to behavior.\n\nFamilies with twins in the Netherlands were participants of an ongoing study by Trull and colleagues, in which 711 pairs of siblings and 561 parents were examined to identify the location of genetic traits that influenced the development of BPD. Research collaborators found that genetic material on chromosome 9 was linked to BPD features. The researchers concluded that \"genetic factors play a major role in individual differences of borderline personality disorder features.\" These same researchers had earlier concluded in a previous study that 42 percent of variation in BPD features was attributable to genetic influences and 58 percent was attributable to environmental influences. Genes under investigation include the 7-repeat polymorphism of the dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4) on chromosome 11, which has been linked to disorganized attachment, whilst the combined effect of the 7-repeat polymorphism and the 10/10 dopamine transporter (DAT) genotype has been linked to abnormalities in inhibitory control, both noted features of BPD. There is a possible connection to chromosome 5.\n\nA number of neuroimaging studies in BPD have reported findings of reductions in regions of the brain involved in the regulation of stress responses and emotion, affecting the hippocampus, the orbitofrontal cortex, and the amygdala, amongst other areas. A smaller number of studies have used magnetic resonance spectroscopy to explore changes in the concentrations of neurometabolites in certain brain regions of BPD patients, looking specifically at neurometabolites such as N-acetylaspartate, creatine, glutamate-related compounds, and choline-containing compounds.\n\nThe hippocampus tends to be smaller in people with BPD, as it is in people with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). However, in BPD, unlike PTSD, the amygdala also tends to be smaller.\n\nThe amygdalae are smaller and more active in people with BPD. Decreased amygdala volume has also been found in people with obsessive-compulsive disorder. One study has found unusually strong activity in the left amygdalas of people with BPD when they experience and view displays of negative emotions. This unusually strong activity may explain the unusual strength and longevity of fear, sadness, anger, and shame experienced by people with BPD, as well as their heightened sensitivity to displays of these emotions in others.\n\nThe prefrontal cortex tends to be less active in people with BPD, especially when recalling memories of abandonment. This relative inactivity occurs in the right anterior cingulate (areas 24 and 32).\n\nGiven its role in regulating emotional arousal, the relative inactivity of the prefrontal cortex might explain the difficulties people with BPD experience in regulating their emotions and responses to stress.\n\nThe hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA axis) regulates cortisol production, which is released in response to stress. Cortisol production tends to be elevated in people with BPD, indicating a hyperactive HPA axis in these individuals. This causes them to experience a greater biological stress response, which might explain their greater vulnerability to irritability. Since traumatic events can increase cortisol production and HPA axis activity, one possibility is that the prevalence of higher than average activity in the HPA axis of people with BPD may simply be a reflection of the higher than average prevalence of traumatic childhood and maturational events among people with BPD. Another possibility is that, by heightening their sensitivity to stressful events, increased cortisol production may predispose those with BPD to experience stressful childhood and maturational events as traumatic.\n\nIncreased cortisol production is also associated with an increased risk of suicidal behavior.\n\nIndividual differences in women's estrogen cycles may be related to the expression of BPD symptoms in female patients. A 2003 study found that women's BPD symptoms were predicted by changes in estrogen levels throughout their menstrual cycles, an effect that remained significant when the results were controlled for a general increase in negative affect.\n\nThere is a strong correlation between child abuse, especially child sexual abuse, and development of BPD. Many individuals with BPD report a history of abuse and neglect as young children, but causation is still debated. Patients with BPD have been found to be significantly more likely to report having been verbally, emotionally, physically, or sexually abused by caregivers of either gender. They also report a high incidence of incest and loss of caregivers in early childhood. Individuals with BPD were also likely to report having caregivers of both sexes deny the validity of their thoughts and feelings. Caregivers were also reported to have failed to provide needed protection and to have neglected their child's physical care. Parents of both sexes were typically reported to have withdrawn from the child emotionally and to have treated the child inconsistently. Additionally, women with BPD who reported a previous history of neglect by a female caregiver and abuse by a male caregiver were significantly more likely to experience sexual abuse by a non-caregiver.\n\nIt has been suggested that children who experience chronic early maltreatment and attachment difficulties may go on to develop borderline personality disorder. Writing in the psychoanalytic tradition, Otto Kernberg argues that a child's failure to achieve the developmental task of and failure to overcome splitting might increase the risk of developing a borderline personality. A child's inability to tolerate delayed gratification at age four does not predict later development of BPD.\n\nThe intensity and reactivity of a person's negative affectivity, or tendency to feel negative emotions, predicts BPD symptoms more strongly than does childhood sexual abuse. This finding, differences in brain structure (see Brain abnormalities), and the fact that some patients with BPD do not report a traumatic history, suggest that BPD is distinct from the post-traumatic stress disorder which frequently accompanies it. Thus, researchers examine developmental causes in addition to childhood trauma.\n\nResearch published in January 2013 by Dr. Anthony Ruocco at the University of Toronto has highlighted two patterns of brain activity that may underlie the dysregulation of emotion indicated in this disorder: (1) increased activity in the brain circuits responsible for the experience of heightened emotional pain, coupled with (2) reduced activation of the brain circuits that normally regulate or suppress these generated painful emotions. These two neural networks are seen to be dysfunctionally operative in the frontolimbic regions, but the specific regions vary widely in individuals, which calls for the analysis of more neuroimaging studies.\n\nAlso (contrary to the results of earlier studies) sufferers of BPD showed less activation in the amygdala in situations of increased negative emotionality than the control group. Dr. John Krystal, editor of the journal \"Biological Psychiatry\", wrote that these results \"[added] to the impression that people with borderline personality disorder are 'set-up' by their brains to have stormy emotional lives, although not necessarily unhappy or unproductive lives\". Their emotional instability has been found to correlate with differences in several brain regions.\n\nWhile high rejection sensitivity is associated with stronger symptoms of borderline personality disorder, executive function appears to mediate the relationship between rejection sensitivity and BPD symptoms. That is, a group of cognitive processes that include planning, working memory, attention, and problem-solving might be the mechanism through which rejection sensitivity impacts BPD symptoms. A 2008 study found that the relationship between a person's rejection sensitivity and BPD symptoms was stronger when executive function was lower and that the relationship was weaker when executive function was higher. This suggests that high executive function might help protect people with high rejection sensitivity against symptoms of BPD. A 2012 study found that problems in working memory might contribute to greater impulsivity in people with BPD.\n\nFamily environment mediates the effect of child sexual abuse on the development of BPD. An unstable family environment predicts the development of the disorder, while a stable family environment predicts a lower risk. One possible explanation is that a stable environment buffers against its development.\n\nSelf-complexity, or considering one's self to have many different characteristics, appears to moderate the relationship between Actual-Ideal self-discrepancy issues and the development of BPD symptoms. That is, for individuals who believe that their actual characteristics do not match the characteristics that they hope to acquire, high self-complexity reduces the impact of their conflicted self-image on BPD symptoms. However, self-complexity does not moderate the relationship between Actual-Ought self-discrepancy and the development of BPD symptoms. That is, for individuals who believe that their actual characteristics do not match the characteristics that they should already have, high self-complexity does not reduce the impact of their conflicted self-image on BPD symptoms. The protective role of self-complexity in Actual-Ideal self-discrepancy, but not in Actual-Ought self-discrepancy, suggests that the impact of conflicted or unstable self-image in BPD depends on whether the individual views himself or herself in terms of characteristics that they hope to acquire, or in terms of characteristics that they \"should\" already have acquired.\n\nA 2005 study found that thought suppression, or conscious attempts to avoid thinking certain thoughts, mediates the relationship between emotional vulnerability and BPD symptoms. A later study found that the relationship between emotional vulnerability and BPD symptoms is not necessarily mediated by thought suppression. However, this study did find that thought suppression mediates the relationship between an invalidating environment and BPD symptoms.\n\nDiagnosis of borderline personality disorder is based on a clinical assessment by a mental health professional. The best method is to present the criteria of the disorder to a person and to ask them if they feel that these characteristics accurately describe them. Actively involving people with BPD in determining their diagnosis can help them become more willing to accept it. Although some clinicians prefer not to tell people with BPD what their diagnosis is, either from concern about the stigma attached to this condition or because BPD used to be considered untreatable, it is usually helpful for the person with BPD to know their diagnosis. This helps them know that others have had similar experiences and can point them toward effective treatments.\n\nIn general, the psychological evaluation includes asking the patient about the beginning and severity of symptoms, as well as other questions about how symptoms impact the patient's quality of life. Issues of particular note are suicidal ideations, experiences with self-harm, and thoughts about harming others. Diagnosis is based both on the person's report of their symptoms and on the clinician's own observations. Additional tests for BPD can include a physical exam and laboratory tests to rule out other possible triggers for symptoms, such as thyroid conditions or substance abuse. The ICD-10 manual refers to the disorder as \"emotionally unstable personality disorder\" and has similar diagnostic criteria. In the DSM-5, the name of the disorder remains the same as in the previous editions.\n\nThe \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" fifth edition (DSM-5) has removed the multiaxial system. Consequently, all disorders, including personality disorders, are listed in Section II of the manual. A person must meet 5 of 9 criteria to receive a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder. The DSM-5 defines the main features of BPD as a pervasive pattern of instability in interpersonal relationships, self image, and affect, as well as markedly impulsive behavior. In addition, the DSM-5 proposes alternative diagnostic criteria for borderline personality disorder in section III, \"Alternative DSM-5 Model for Personality Disorders\". These alternative criteria are based on trait research and include specifying at least four of seven maladaptive traits. According to Marsha Linehan, many mental health professionals find it challenging to diagnose BPD using the DSM criteria, since these criteria describe such a wide variety of behaviors. To address this issue, Linehan has grouped the symptoms of BPD under five main areas of dysregulation: emotions, behavior, interpersonal relationships, sense of self, and cognition.\n\nThe World Health Organization's ICD-10 defines a disorder that is conceptually similar to borderline personality disorder, called \"() Emotionally unstable personality disorder\". Its two subtypes are described below.\n\nAt least three of the following must be present, one of which must be (2):\n\nAt least three of the symptoms mentioned in \"F60.30 Impulsive type\" must be present [see above], with at least two of the following in addition:\nThe ICD-10 also describes some general criteria that define what is considered a personality disorder.\n\nTheodore Millon has proposed four subtypes of BPD. He suggests that an individual diagnosed with BPD may exhibit none, one, or more of the following:\nPeople with BPD may be misdiagnosed for a variety of reasons. One reason for misdiagnosis is BPD has symptoms that coexist (comorbidity) with other disorders such as depression, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and bipolar disorder.\n\nPeople with BPD are prone to feeling angry at members of their family and alienated from them. On their part, family members often feel angry and helpless at how their BPD family members relate to them. Parents of adults with BPD are often both over-involved and under-involved in family interactions. In romantic relationships, BPD is linked to increased levels of chronic stress and conflict, decreased satisfaction of romantic partners, abuse, and unwanted pregnancy. However, these links may apply to personality disorders in general.\n\nOnset of symptoms typically occurs during adolescence or young adulthood, although symptoms suggestive of this disorder can sometimes be observed in children. Symptoms among adolescents that predict the development of BPD in adulthood may include problems with body-image, extreme sensitivity to rejection, behavioral problems, non-suicidal self-injury, attempts to find exclusive relationships, and severe shame. Many adolescents experience these symptoms without going on to develop BPD, but those who experience them are 9 times as likely as their peers to develop BPD. They are also more likely to develop other forms of long-term social disabilities. Clinicians are discouraged from diagnosing anyone with BPD before the age of 18, due to the normal ups and downs of adolescence and a still-developing personality. However, BPD can sometimes be diagnosed before age 18, in which case the features must have been present and consistent for at least one year.\n\nA BPD diagnosis in adolescence might predict that the disorder will continue into adulthood. Among adolescents who warrant a BPD diagnosis, there appears to be one group in which the disorder remains stable over time and another group in which the individuals move in and out of the diagnosis. Earlier diagnoses may be helpful in creating a more effective treatment plan for the adolescent. Family therapy is considered a helpful component of treatment for adolescents with BPD.\n\nLifetime comorbid (co-occurring) conditions are common in BPD. Compared to those diagnosed with other personality disorders, people with BPD showed a higher rate of also meeting criteria for\n\nA diagnosis of a personality disorder should not be made during an untreated mood episode/disorder, unless the lifetime history supports the presence of a personality disorder.\n\nA 2008 study found that at some point in their lives, 75 percent of people with BPD meet criteria for mood disorders, especially major depression and Bipolar I, and nearly 75 percent meet criteria for an anxiety disorder. Nearly 73 percent meet criteria for substance abuse or dependency, and about 40 percent for PTSD. It is noteworthy that less than half of the participants with BPD in this study presented with PTSD, a prevalence similar to that reported in an earlier study. The finding that less than half of patients with BPD experience PTSD during their lives challenges the theory that BPD and PTSD are the same disorder.\n\nThere are marked gender differences in the types of comorbid conditions a person with BPD is likely to have— a higher percentage of males with BPD meet criteria for substance-use disorders, while a higher percentage of females with BPD meet criteria for PTSD and eating disorders. In one study, 38% of participants with BPD met the criteria for a diagnosis of ADHD. In another study, 6 of 41 participants (15%) met the criteria for an autism spectrum disorder (a subgroup that had significantly more frequent suicide attempts).\n\nRegardless that it is an infradiagnosed disorder, a few studies have shown that the \"lower expressions\" of it might lead to wrong diagnoses. The many and shifting Axis I disorders in people with BPD can sometimes cause clinicians to miss the presence of the underlying personality disorder. However, since a complex pattern of Axis I diagnoses has been found to strongly predict the presence of BPD, clinicians can use the feature of a complex pattern of comorbidity as a clue that BPD might be present.\n\nMany people with borderline personality disorder also have mood disorders, such as major depressive disorder or a bipolar disorder. Some characteristics of BPD are similar to those of mood disorders, which can complicate the diagnosis. It is especially common for people to be misdiagnosed with bipolar disorder when they have borderline personality disorder or vice versa. For someone with bipolar disorder, behavior suggestive of BPD might appear while the client is experiencing an episode of major depression or mania, only to disappear once the client's mood has stabilized. For this reason, it is ideal to wait until the client's mood has stabilized before attempting to make a diagnosis.\n\nAt face value, the affective lability of BPD and the rapid mood cycling of bipolar disorders can seem very similar. It can be difficult even for experienced clinicians, if they are unfamiliar with BPD, to differentiate between the mood swings of these two conditions. However, there are some clear differences.\n\nFirst, the mood swings of BPD and bipolar disorder tend to have different durations. In some people with bipolar disorder, episodes of depression or mania last for at least two weeks at a time, which is much longer than moods last in people with BPD. Even among those who experience bipolar disorder with more rapid mood shifts, their moods usually last for days, while the moods of people with BPD can change in minutes or hours. So while euphoria and impulsivity in someone with BPD might resemble a manic episode, the experience would be too brief to qualify as a manic episode.\n\nSecond, the moods of bipolar disorder do not respond to changes in the environment, while the moods of BPD do respond to changes in the environment. That is, a positive event would not lift the depressed mood caused by bipolar disorder, but a positive event would potentially lift the depressed mood of someone with BPD. Similarly, an undesirable event would not dampen the euphoria caused by bipolar disorder, but an undesirable event would dampen the euphoria of someone with borderline personality disorder.\n\nThird, when people with BPD experience euphoria, it is usually without the racing thoughts and decreased need for sleep that are typical of hypomania, though a later 2013 study of data collected in 2004 found that borderline personality disorder diagnosis and symptoms were associated with chronic sleep disturbances, including difficulty initiating sleep, difficulty maintaining sleep, and waking earlier than desired, as well as with the consequences of poor sleep, and noted that \"[f]ew studies have examined the experience of chronic sleep disturbances in those with borderline personality disorder\".\n\nBecause the two conditions have a number of similar symptoms, BPD was once considered to be a mild form of bipolar disorder or to exist on the bipolar spectrum. However, this would require that the underlying mechanism causing these symptoms be the same for both conditions. Differences in phenomenology, family history, longitudinal course, and responses to treatment indicate that this is not the case. Researchers have found \"only a modest association\" between bipolar disorder and borderline personality disorder, with \"a strong spectrum relationship with [BPD and] bipolar disorder extremely unlikely\". Benazzi et al. suggest that the DSM-IV BPD diagnosis combines two unrelated characteristics: an affective instability dimension related to Bipolar II and an impulsivity dimension not related to Bipolar II.\n\nPremenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) occurs in 3–8 percent of women. Symptoms begin 5–11 days before menstruation and cease a few days after it begins. Symptoms may include marked mood swings, irritability, depressed mood, feeling hopeless or suicidal, a subjective sense of being overwhelmed or out of control, anxiety, binge eating, difficulty concentrating, and substantial impairment of interpersonal relationships. People with PMDD typically begin to experience symptoms in their early twenties, although many do not seek treatment until their early thirties.\n\nAlthough some of the symptoms of PMDD and BPD are similar, they are different disorders. They are distinguishable by the timing and duration of symptoms, which are markedly different: the symptoms of PMDD occur only during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, whereas BPD symptoms occur persistently at all stages of the menstrual cycle. In addition, the symptoms of PMDD do not include impulsivity.\n\nMore than two-thirds of people diagnosed with BPD also meet the criteria for another Axis II personality disorder at some point in their lives. (In a 2008 study, the rate was 73.9 percent.) Cluster A disorders, which include paranoid, schizoid, and schizotypal, are the most common, with a prevalence of 50.4 percent in people with BPD.\n\nThe second most common is another Cluster B disorder, which includes antisocial, histrionic, and narcissistic. These have an overall prevalence of 49.2 percent in people with BPD, with narcissistic being the most common, at 38.9 percent; antisocial the second most common, at 13.7 percent; and histrionic the least common, at 10.3 percent. The least common are Cluster C disorders, which include avoidant, dependent, and obsessive-compulsive, and have a prevalence of 29.9 percent in people with BPD. The percentages for specific comorbid Axis II disorders can be found in the adjacent table.\n\nPsychotherapy is the primary treatment for borderline personality disorder. Treatments should be based on the needs of the individual, rather than upon the general diagnosis of BPD. Medications are useful for treating comorbid disorders, such as depression and anxiety. Short-term hospitalization has not been found to be more effective than community care for improving outcomes or long-term prevention of suicidal behavior in those with BPD.\n\nLong-term psychotherapy is currently the treatment of choice for BPD. While psychotherapy, in particular dialectical behavior therapy and psychodynamic approaches, is effective, the effects are small.\n\nMore rigorous treatments are not substantially better than less rigorous treatments. There are six such treatments available: dynamic deconstructive psychotherapy (DDP), mentalization-based treatment (MBT), transference-focused psychotherapy, dialectical behavior therapy (DBT), general psychiatric management, and schema-focused therapy. While DBT is the therapy that has been studied the most, all these treatments appear effective for treating BPD, except for schema-focused therapy. Long-term therapy of any kind, including schema-focused therapy, is better than no treatment, especially in reducing urges to self-injure.\n\nTransference focused therapy aims to break away from absolute thinking. In this, it gets the people to articulate their social interpretations and their emotions in order to turn their views into less rigid categories. The therapist addresses the individual's feelings and goes over situations, real or realistic, that could happen as well as how to approach them.\n\nDialectical behavior therapy has similar components to CBT, adding in practices such as meditation. In doing this, it helps the individual with BPD gain skills to manage symptoms. These skills include emotion regulation, mindfulness, and stress hardiness.\n\nCognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is also a type of psychotherapy used for treatment of BPD. This type of therapy relies on changing people's behaviors and beliefs by identifying problems from the disorder. CBT is known to reduce some anxiety and mood symptoms as well as reduce suicidal thoughts and self-harming behaviors.\n\nMentalization-based therapy and transference-focused psychotherapy are based on psychodynamic principles, and dialectical behavior therapy is based on cognitive-behavioral principles and mindfulness. General psychiatric management combines the core principles from each of these treatments, and it is considered easier to learn and less intensive. Randomized controlled trials have shown that DBT and MBT may be the most effective, and the two share many similarities. Researchers are interested in developing shorter versions of these therapies to increase accessibility, to relieve the financial burden on patients, and to relieve the resource burden on treatment providers.\n\nSome research indicates that mindfulness meditation may bring about favorable structural changes in the brain, including changes in brain structures that are associated with BPD. Mindfulness-based interventions also appear to bring about an improvement in symptoms characteristic of BPD, and some clients who underwent mindfulness-based treatment no longer met a minimum of five of the DSM-IV-TR diagnostic criteria for BPD.\n\nA 2010 review by the Cochrane collaboration found that no medications show promise for \"the core BPD symptoms of chronic feelings of emptiness, identity disturbance and abandonment\". However, the authors found that some medications may impact isolated symptoms associated with BPD or the symptoms of comorbid conditions. A 2017 review examined evidence published since the 2010 Cochrane review and found that \"evidence of effectiveness of medication for BPD remains very mixed and is still highly compromised by suboptimal study design\".\n\nOf the typical antipsychotics studied in relation to BPD, haloperidol may reduce anger and flupenthixol may reduce the likelihood of suicidal behavior. Among the atypical antipsychotics, one trial found that aripiprazole may reduce interpersonal problems and impulsivity. Olanzapine may decrease affective instability, anger, psychotic paranoid symptoms, and anxiety, but a placebo had a greater ameliorative impact on suicidal ideation than olanzapine did. The effect of ziprasidone was not significant.\n\nOf the mood stabilizers studied, valproate semisodium may ameliorate depression, interpersonal problems, and anger. Lamotrigine may reduce impulsivity and anger; topiramate may ameliorate interpersonal problems, impulsivity, anxiety, anger, and general psychiatric pathology. The effect of carbamazepine was not significant. Of the antidepressants, amitriptyline may reduce depression, but mianserin, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, and phenelzine sulfate showed no effect. Omega-3 fatty acid may ameliorate suicidality and improve depression. , trials with these medications had not been replicated and the effect of long-term use had not been assessed.\n\nBecause of weak evidence and the potential for serious side effects from some of these medications, the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) 2009 clinical guideline for the treatment and management of BPD recommends, \"Drug treatment should not be used specifically for borderline personality disorder or for the individual symptoms or behavior associated with the disorder.\" However, \"drug treatment may be considered in the overall treatment of comorbid conditions\". They suggest a \"review of the treatment of people with borderline personality disorder who do not have a diagnosed comorbid mental or physical illness and who are currently being prescribed drugs, with the aim of reducing and stopping unnecessary drug treatment\".\n\nThere is a significant difference between the number of those who would benefit from treatment and the number of those who are treated. The so-called \"treatment gap\" is a function of the disinclination of the afflicted to submit for treatment, an underdiagnosing of the disorder by healthcare providers, and the limited availability and access to state-of-the-art treatments. Nonetheless, individuals with BPD accounted for about 20 percent of psychiatric hospitalizations in one survey. The majority of individuals with BPD who are in treatment continue to use outpatient treatment in a sustained manner for several years, but the number using the more restrictive and costly forms of treatment, such as inpatient admission, declines with time.\n\nExperience of services varies. Assessing suicide risk can be a challenge for clinicians, and patients themselves tend to underestimate the lethality of self-injurious behaviors. People with BPD typically have a chronically elevated risk of suicide much above that of the general population and a history of multiple attempts when in crisis. Approximately half the individuals who commit suicide meet criteria for a personality disorder. Borderline personality disorder remains the most commonly associated personality disorder with suicide.\n\nAfter a patient suffering from BPD died, The National Health Service (NHS) in England was criticized by a coroner in 2014 for the lack of commissioned services to support those with BPD. Evidence was given that 45% of female patients had BPD and there was no provision or priority for therapeutic psychological services. At the time, there were 60 specialized inpatient beds in England, all of them located in London or the northeast region.\n\nWith treatment, the majority of people with BPD can find relief from distressing symptoms and achieve remission, defined as a consistent relief from symptoms for at least two years. This longitudinal study tracking the symptoms of people with BPD found that 34.5% achieved remission within two years from the beginning of the study. Within four years, 49.4% had achieved remission, and within six years, 68.6% had achieved remission. By the end of the study, 73.5% of participants were found to be in remission. Moreover, of those who achieved recovery from symptoms, only 5.9% experienced recurrences. A later study found that ten years from baseline (during a hospitalization), 86% of patients had sustained a stable recovery from symptoms.\n\nPatient personality can play an important role during the therapeutic process, leading to better clinical outcomes. Recent research has shown that BPD patients undergoing dialectical behavior therapy (DBT) exhibit better clinical outcomes correlated with higher levels of the trait of agreeableness in the patient, compared to patients either low in agreeableness or not being treated with DBT. This association was mediated through the strength of a working alliance between patient and therapist; that is, more agreeable patients developed stronger working alliances with their therapists, which in turn, led to better clinical outcomes.\n\nIn addition to recovering from distressing symptoms, people with BPD also achieve high levels of psychosocial functioning. A longitudinal study tracking the social and work abilities of participants with BPD found that six years after diagnosis, 56% of participants had good function in work and social environments, compared to 26% of participants when they were first diagnosed. Vocational achievement was generally more limited, even compared to those with other personality disorders. However, those whose symptoms had remitted were significantly more likely to have good relationships with a romantic partner and at least one parent, good performance at work and school, a sustained work and school history, and good psychosocial functioning overall.\n\nThe prevalence of BPD was initially estimated to be 1 to 2 percent of the general population and to occur three times more often in women than in men. However, the lifetime prevalence of BPD in a 2008 study was found to be 5.9% of the general population, occurring in 5.6% of men and 6.2% of women. The difference in rates between men and women in this study was not found to be statistically significant.\n\nBorderline personality disorder is estimated to contribute to 20 percent of psychiatric hospitalizations and to occur among 10 percent of outpatients.\n\n29.5 percent of new inmates in the U.S. state of Iowa fit a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder in 2007, and the overall prevalence of BPD in the U.S. prison population is thought to be 17 percent. These high numbers may be related to the high frequency of substance abuse and substance use disorders among people with BPD, which is estimated at 38 percent.\n\nThe coexistence of intense, divergent moods within an individual was recognized by Homer, Hippocrates, and Aretaeus, the latter describing the vacillating presence of impulsive anger, melancholia, and mania within a single person. The concept was revived by Swiss physician Théophile Bonet in 1684 who, using the term \"folie maniaco-mélancolique\", described the phenomenon of unstable moods that followed an unpredictable course. Other writers noted the same pattern, including the American psychiatrist Charles H. Hughes in 1884 and J.C. Rosse in 1890, who called the disorder \"borderline insanity\". In 1921, Kraepelin identified an \"excitable personality\" that closely parallels the borderline features outlined in the current concept of BPD.\n\nThe first significant psychoanalytic work to use the term \"borderline\" was written by Adolf Stern in 1938. It described a group of patients suffering from what he thought to be a mild form of schizophrenia, on the \"borderline\" between neurosis and psychosis.\n\nThe 1960s and 1970s saw a shift from thinking of the condition as borderline schizophrenia to thinking of it as a borderline affective disorder (mood disorder), on the fringes of bipolar disorder, cyclothymia, and dysthymia. In the DSM-II, stressing the intensity and variability of moods, it was called cyclothymic personality (affective personality). While the term \"borderline\" was evolving to refer to a distinct category of disorder, psychoanalysts such as Otto Kernberg were using it to refer to a broad spectrum of issues, describing an intermediate level of personality organization between neurosis and psychosis.\n\nAfter standardized criteria were developed to distinguish it from mood disorders and other Axis I disorders, BPD became a personality disorder diagnosis in 1980 with the publication of the DSM-III. The diagnosis was distinguished from sub-syndromal schizophrenia, which was termed \"Schizotypal personality disorder\". The DSM-IV Axis II Work Group of the American Psychiatric Association finally decided on the name \"borderline personality disorder\", which is still in use by the DSM-5 today. However, the term \"borderline\" has been described as uniquely inadequate for describing the symptoms characteristic of this disorder.\n\nEarlier versions of the DSM, prior to the multiaxial diagnosis system, classified most people with mental health problems into two categories, the psychotics and the neurotics. Clinicians noted a certain class of neurotics who, when in crisis, appeared to straddle the borderline into psychosis. The term stuck and evolved into the personality disorder diagnosis of today.\n\nThe credibility of individuals with personality disorders has been questioned at least since the 1960s. Two concerns are the incidence of dissociation episodes among people with BPD and the belief that lying is a key component of this condition.\n\nResearchers disagree about whether dissociation, or a sense of detachment from emotions and physical experiences, impacts the ability of people with BPD to recall the specifics of past events. A 1999 study reported that the specificity of autobiographical memory was decreased in BPD patients. The researchers found that decreased ability to recall specifics was correlated with patients' levels of dissociation.\n\nSome theorists argue that patients with BPD often lie. However, others write that they have rarely seen lying among patients with BPD in clinical practice.\n\nThe belief that lying is a distinguishing characteristic of BPD can impact the quality of care that people with this diagnosis receive in the legal and healthcare systems. For instance, Jean Goodwin relates an anecdote of a patient with multiple personality disorder, now called dissociative identity disorder, who suffered from pelvic pain due to traumatic events in her childhood. Due to their disbelief in her accounts of these events, physicians diagnosed her with borderline personality disorder, reflecting a belief that lying is a key feature of BPD. Based upon her BPD diagnosis, the physicians then disregarded the patient's assertion that she was allergic to adhesive tape. The patient was in fact allergic to adhesive tape, which later caused complications in the surgery to relieve her pelvic pain.\n\nSince BPD can be a stigmatizing diagnosis even within the mental health community, some survivors of childhood abuse who are diagnosed with BPD are re-traumatized by the negative responses they receive from healthcare providers. One camp argues that it would be better to diagnose these men or women with post-traumatic stress disorder, as this would acknowledge the impact of abuse on their behavior. Critics of the PTSD diagnosis argue that it medicalizes abuse rather than addressing the root causes in society. Regardless, a diagnosis of PTSD does not encompass all aspects of the disorder (see Brain abnormalities and Terminology).\n\nJoel Paris states that \"In the clinic ... Up to 80% of patients are women. That may not be true in the community.\" He offers the following explanations regarding these gender discrepancies:\n\nThe most probable explanation for gender differences in clinical samples is that women are more likely to develop the kind of symptoms that bring patients in for treatment. Twice as many women as men in the community suffer from depression (Weissman & Klerman, 1985). In contrast, there is a preponderance of men meeting criteria for substance abuse and psychopathy (Robins & Regier, 1991), and males with these disorders do not necessarily present in the mental health system. Men and women with similar psychological problems may express distress differently. Men tend to drink more and carry out more crimes. Women tend to turn their anger on themselves, leading to depression as well as the cutting and overdosing that characterize BPD. Thus, anti-social personality disorder (ASPD) and borderline personality disorders might derive from similar underlying pathology but present with symptoms strongly influenced by gender (Paris, 1997a; Looper & Paris, 2000).\n\nWe have even more specific evidence that men with BPD may not seek help. In a study of completed suicides among people aged 18 to 35 years (Lesage et al., 1994), 30% of the suicides involved individuals with BPD (as confirmed by psychological autopsy, in which symptoms were assessed by interviews with family members). Most of the suicide completers were men, and very few were in treatment. Similar findings emerged from a later study conducted by our own research group (McGirr, Paris, Lesage, Renaud, & Turecki, 2007).\n\nIn short, men are less likely to seek or accept appropriate treatment, more likely to be treated for symptoms of BPD such as substance abuse rather than BPD itself (the symptoms of BPD and ASPD possibly deriving from a similar underlying aetiology), possibly more likely to wind up in the correctional system due to criminal behavior, and possibly more likely to commit suicide prior to diagnosis.\n\nAmong men diagnosed with BPD there is also evidence of a higher suicide rate: \"men are more than twice as likely as women—18 percent versus 8 percent\"—to die by suicide.\n\nThere are also sex differences in borderline personality disorders. Men with BPD are more likely to abuse substances, have explosive temper, high levels of novelty seeking and have anti-social, narcissistic, passive-aggressive or sadistic personality traits. Women with BPD are more likely to have eating disorders, mood disorders, anxiety and post-traumatic stress.\n\nManipulative behavior to obtain nurturance is considered by the DSM-IV-TR and many mental health professionals to be a defining characteristic of borderline personality disorder. However, Marsha Linehan notes that doing so relies upon the assumption that people with BPD who communicate intense pain, or who engage in self-harm and suicidal behavior, do so with the intention of influencing the behavior of others. The impact of such behavior on others—often an intense emotional reaction in concerned friends, family members, and therapists—is thus assumed to have been the person's intention.\n\nHowever, since people with BPD lack the ability to successfully manage painful emotions and interpersonal challenges, their frequent expressions of intense pain, self-harming, or suicidal behavior may instead represent a method of mood regulation or an escape mechanism from situations that feel unbearable. Linehan notes that if, for example, one were to withhold pain medication from burn victims and cancer patients, leaving them unable to regulate their severe pain, they would also exhibit \"attention-seeking\" and self-destructive behavior in order to cope.\n\nThe features of BPD include emotional instability; intense, unstable interpersonal relationships; a need for intimacy; and a fear of rejection. As a result, people with BPD often evoke intense emotions in those around them. Pejorative terms to describe people with BPD, such as \"difficult\", \"treatment resistant\", \"manipulative\", \"demanding\", and \"attention seeking\", are often used and may become a self-fulfilling prophecy, as the negative treatment of these individuals triggers further self-destructive behavior.\n\nThe stigma surrounding borderline personality disorder includes the belief that people with BPD are prone to violence toward others. While movies and visual media often sensationalize people with BPD by portraying them as violent, the majority of researchers agree that people with BPD are unlikely to physically harm others. Although people with BPD often struggle with experiences of intense anger, a defining characteristic of BPD is that they direct it inward toward themselves. One of the key differences between BPD and antisocial personality disorder (ASPD) is that people with BPD tend to internalize anger by hurting themselves, while people with ASPD tend to externalize it by hurting others.\n\nIn addition, adults with BPD have often experienced abuse in childhood, so many people with BPD adopt a \"no-tolerance\" policy toward expressions of anger of any kind. Their extreme aversion to violence can cause many people with BPD to overcompensate and experience difficulties being assertive and expressing their needs. This is one way in which people with BPD choose to harm themselves over potentially causing harm to others. Another way in which people with BPD avoid expressing their anger through violence is by causing physical damage to themselves, such as engaging in non-suicidal self-injury.\n\nPeople with BPD are considered to be among the most challenging groups of patients to work with in therapy, requiring a high level of skill and training in the psychiatrists, therapists and nurses involved in their treatment. A majority of psychiatric staff report finding individuals with BPD moderately to extremely difficult to work with and more difficult than other client groups. Efforts are ongoing to improve public and staff attitudes toward people with BPD.\n\nIn psychoanalytic theory, the stigmatization among mental healthcare providers may be thought to reflect countertransference (when a therapist projects his or her own feelings on to a client). Thus, a diagnosis of BPD \"often says more about the clinician's negative reaction to the patient than it does about the patient\" and \"explains away the breakdown in empathy between the therapist and the patient and becomes an institutional epithet in the guise of pseudoscientific jargon\". This inadvertent countertransference can give rise to inappropriate clinical responses, including excessive use of medication, inappropriate mothering, and punitive use of limit setting and interpretation.\n\nSome clients feel the diagnosis is helpful, allowing them to understand that they are not alone and to connect with others with BPD who have developed helpful coping mechanisms. However, others experience the term \"borderline personality disorder\" as a pejorative label rather than an informative diagnosis. They report concerns that their self-destructive behavior is incorrectly perceived as manipulative and that the stigma surrounding this disorder limits their access to healthcare. Indeed, mental health professionals frequently refuse to provide services to those who have received a BPD diagnosis.\n\nBecause of the above concerns, and because of a move away from the original theoretical basis for the term (see history), there is ongoing debate about renaming borderline personality disorder. While some clinicians agree with the current name, others argue that it should be changed, since many who are labelled with borderline personality disorder find the name unhelpful, stigmatizing, or inaccurate. Valerie Porr, president of Treatment and Research Advancement Association for Personality Disorders states that \"the name BPD is confusing, imparts no relevant or descriptive information, and reinforces existing stigma.\"\n\nAlternative suggestions for names include \"emotional regulation disorder\" or \"emotional dysregulation disorder\". \"Impulse disorder\" and \"interpersonal regulatory disorder\" are other valid alternatives, according to John G. Gunderson of McLean Hospital in the United States. Another term suggested by psychiatrist Carolyn Quadrio is \"post traumatic personality disorganization\" (PTPD), reflecting the condition's status as (often) both a form of chronic post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as well as a personality disorder.<ref name=\"AxisOne/AxisTwo\"></ref> However, although many with BPD do have traumatic histories, some do not report any kind of traumatic event, which suggests that BPD is not necessarily a trauma spectrum disorder.\n\nThe Treatment and Research Advancements National Association for Personality Disorders (TARA-APD) campaigned unsuccessfully to change the name and designation of BPD in DSM-5, published in May 2013, in which the name \"borderline personality disorder\" remains unchanged and it is not considered a trauma- and stressor-related disorder.\n\nFilms and television shows have portrayed characters either explicitly diagnosed or with traits suggestive of BPD. These may be misleading if they are thought to depict this disorder accurately. The majority of researchers agree that in reality, people with BPD are very unlikely to harm others.\n\nThe films \"Play Misty for Me\" and \"Girl, Interrupted\" (based on the memoir of the same name) both suggest the emotional instability of the disorder. The 1992 film \"Single White Female,\" like the first example, also suggests characteristics, some of which are actually atypical of the disorder: the character Hedy had markedly disturbed sense of identity and reacts drastically to abandonment. In a review of the 2011 film \"Shame\" for the British journal \"The Art of Psychiatry\", another psychiatrist, Abby Seltzer, praises Carey Mulligan's portrayal of a character with the disorder even though it is never mentioned onscreen.\n\nFilms attempting to depict characters with the disorder include \"A Thin Line Between Love and Hate\", \"Filth\", \"Fatal Attraction\", \"The Crush\", \"Mad Love\", \"Malicious\", \"Interiors\", \"The Cable Guy\", \"Mr. Nobody\", \"Moksha\", \"Cracks\", and \"Welcome to Me\". Psychiatrists Eric Bui and Rachel Rodgers argue that the character of Anakin Skywalker/Darth Vader in the \"Star Wars\" films meets six of the nine diagnostic criteria; Bui also found Anakin a useful example to explain BPD to medical students. In particular, Bui points to the character's abandonment issues, uncertainty over his identity, and dissociative episodes.\n\nThe CW show \"Crazy Ex-Girlfriend\" portrays a main character with borderline personality disorder.\n\nIn early 2008, the United States House of Representatives declared the month of May as Borderline Personality Disorder Awareness Month.\n\n"}
{"id": "486366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=486366", "title": "Charting application", "text": "Charting application\n\nA charting application is a computer program that is used to create a graphical representation (a chart) based on some non-graphical data that is entered by a user, most often through a spreadsheet application, but also through a dedicated specific scientific application (such as through a symbolic mathematics computing system, or a proprietary data collection application), or using an online spreadsheet service.\n\nThere are several online charting services available, the most popular one being the U.S. Department of Education's Institute of Education Sciences NCES Chart.\n\nList of information graphics software\n"}
{"id": "6711708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6711708", "title": "Cognitive shifting", "text": "Cognitive shifting\n\nCognitive shifting is the mental process of \"consciously\" redirecting one's attention from one fixation to another. In contrast, if this process happened \"unconsciously\", then it is referred to as task switching. Both are forms of cognitive flexibility.\n\nIn the general framework of cognitive therapy and awareness management, cognitive shifting refers to the conscious choice to take charge of one's mental habits—and redirect one's focus of attention in helpful, more successful directions. In the term's specific usage in corporate awareness methodology, cognitive shifting is a performance-oriented technique for refocusing attention in more alert, innovative, charismatic and empathic directions.\n\nIn cognitive therapy, as developed by its founder Aaron T. Beck and others, a client is taught to shift his or her cognitive focus from one thought or mental fixation to a more positive, realistic focus—thus the descriptive origins of the term \"cognitive shifting\". In \"third wave\" ACT therapy as taught by Steven C. Hayes and his associates in the Acceptance and Commitment Therapy movement, cognitive shifting is employed not only to shift from negative to positive thoughts, but also to shift into a quiet state of mindfulness. Cognitive shifting is also employed quite dominantly in the meditative-health procedures of medical and stress-reduction researchers such as Jon Kabat-Zinn at the University of Massachusetts Medical School.\n\nCognitive shifting has become a common term among therapists especially on the West Coast, and more recently in discussions of mind management methodology. More recently the term, as noted above, has appeared regularly in medical and psychiatric journals etc.\n\n\"In research\": The term has become fairly common in psychiatric research, used in the following manner: \"Neuropsychological findings in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) have been explained in terms of reduced cognitive shifting ability as a result of low levels of frontal inhibitory activity.\"\n\n\"In therapy\": In therapy (as in the work of Steven Hayes and associates), a client is taught first to identify and accept a negative thought or attitude, and then to allow the cognitive shifting process to re-direct attention away from the negative fixation, toward a chosen aim or goal that is more positive—thus the \"accept and choose act\" from whence comes the ACT therapy name. Cognitive studies of the elderly refer to \"...Impaired cognitive shifting in Parkinsonian patients on anticholinergic therapy...\" etc.\n\n\"Everyday usage\": Books such as \"The Way Of The Tiger\" by Lance Secretan, and \"The Creative Manager\" by Peter Russell have shown how cognitive shifting principles apply to everyday life. Decades ago Rollo May taught the process of conscious choosing and cognitive shifting at Princeton in his psychology lectures. And in books such as \"The Emotional Brain\", Joseph LeDoux clarified the power of consciously shifting from a negative to a more positive emotional focus. In John Selby's writings, most notable in \"Quiet Your Mind\", the term appears frequently.\n\n\"In meditation\": Among the first references to the general mental process of focal shifting or cognitive shifting (the term cognitive is a relatively new term), the Hindu Upanishads are probably the first written documentation of the meditative process of redirecting one's focus of attention in particular disciplined directions. Cognitive shifting is the core process of all meditation, especially in Kundalini meditation but also in Zen meditation and even in Christian mysticism where the mind's attention is re-directed (or shifted) toward particular theologically-determined focal points. Recent books have spoken directly of cognitive shifting as a meditative procedure.\n\nIn a recent NPR interview with Michael Toms, and elsewhere in his writings, John Selby attributes his initial introduction to the process of cognitive shifting to Jiddu Krishnamurti, whom he considers his early spiritual teacher, and also to his training with Rollo May at Princeton. In the NPR interview, Selby says he is almost certain that he first heard the actual term from a lecture by the 1960s philosopher Alan Watts during his \"Expanding Christianity\" lectures at the San Francisco Theological Seminary in 1972.\n\nThe primary cognitive technology that is used for cognitive shifting is called \"focus phrase\" methodology. This term has emerged from the actual process in which cognitive shifting is encouraged or even provoked in a client or any other person. The person states clear intent through a specially-worded focus phrase—and then experiences the inner shift that the focus phrase elicits.\n\nAnother term sometimes used for focus phrases is \"elicitor statements\". In some methodologies focus phrases are said as a set of 4 to 7 statements, fairly quickly and to oneself. In other techniques a single focus phrase is held in the mind during a whole morning or day, and perhaps changed each new day during the week.\n\n"}
{"id": "2779187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2779187", "title": "Computer network diagram", "text": "Computer network diagram\n\nA computer network diagram is a schematic depicting the nodes and connections amongst nodes in a computer network or, more generally, any telecommunications network. Computer network diagrams form an important part of network documentation.\n\nReadily identifiable icons are used to depict common network appliances e.g. Router, and the style of lines between them indicate the type of connection. Clouds are used to represent networks external to the one pictured for the purposes of depicting connections between internal and external devices, without indicating the specifics of the outside network. For example, in the hypothetical local area network pictured to the right, three personal computers and a server are connected to a switch; the server is further connected to a printer and a gateway router, which is connected via a WAN link to the Internet.\n\nDepending on whether the diagram is intended for formal or informal use, certain details may be lacking and must be determined from context. For example, the sample diagram does not indicate the physical type of connection between the PCs and the switch, but since a modern LAN is depicted, Ethernet may be assumed. If the same style of line was used in a WAN (wide area network) diagram, however, it may indicate a different type of connection. \n\nAt different scales diagrams may represent various levels of network granularity. At the LAN level, individual nodes may represent individual physical devices, such as hubs or file servers, while at the WAN level, individual nodes may represent entire cities. In addition, when the scope of a diagram crosses the common LAN/MAN/WAN boundaries, representative hypothetical devices may be depicted instead of showing all actually existing nodes. For example, if a network appliance is intended to be connected through the Internet to many end-user mobile devices, only a single such device may be depicted for the purposes of showing the general relationship between the appliance and any such device.\n\nCisco uses its own brand of networking symbols. Since Cisco has a large Internet presence and designs a broad variety of network devices, its list of symbols (\"Network Topology Icons\") is exhaustive.\n\nThe \"physical\" network topology can be directly represented in a network diagram, as it is simply the physical graph represented by the diagrams, with network nodes as vertices and connections as undirected or direct edges (depending on the type of connection). The \"logical\" network topology can be inferred from the network diagram if details of the network protocols in use are also given.\n\n"}
{"id": "36793290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36793290", "title": "Container deposit legislation in Australia", "text": "Container deposit legislation in Australia\n\nContainer deposit legislation (CDL) also known as a Container Deposit Scheme (CDS) is a scheme that was first implemented in South Australia in 1977 and over the decades has spread to the Northern Territory in 2012, New South Wales in 2017 and the Australian Capital Territory in June 2018. Queensland has announced it will pursue a scheme in partnership with NSW for implementation by 1 November 2018. Western Australia has also announced plans for a scheme commencing in early 2020.\n\nAttempts to introduce similar legislation in Tasmania and Victoria have been unsuccessful to date. Victoria did have a similar scheme in place in the 1980's called 'Cash for Cans' but was later rescinded. A Newspoll survey found a majority of people in Australia support a deposit scheme, and a national scheme has also been proposed many times over the year. The recent NSW scheme was strongly opposed by the beverage industry and highlighted their influence.\n\nThe value of deposits and the scope of their application have been influenced by the Australian federal constitution's guarantee of free trade between the states. The defining case in this issue was the attempt to introduce a differential between reusable and recyclable bottle deposits. The issue was taken to the High Court of Australia in the \"Castlemaine Tooheys Ltd v South Australia\" court case., State based schemes need to be exempted from the Commonwealth Mutual Recognition Act which guarantees products can be sold in any jurisdiction without requiring any special labelling. This formed the basis of legal action against the Northern Territories' scheme until an exemption was granted. South Australia, Northern Territory, New South Wales and the ACT is offering 10c to anyone who donates an empty container.\n\nThe ACT government has always been supportive of container deposit legislation, but has never acted alone due to its relatively small size and being enclaved inside the much larger state of NSW. They have always said if NSW adopts a scheme they will follow suit.\nThe ACT Container Deposit Scheme legislation was passed into law on 9 November 2017 and a public consultation was conducted ahead of the scheme's implementation in 2018. The scheme began on 30 June 2018.\n\nThe New South Wales government has indicated it wishes to push ahead with a container deposit scheme as part of a raft of new policies aimed at protecting the environment and doing more to prevent litter and pollution entering the state's rivers, oceans, and parks. The scheme has strong backing from the public, various politicians, NSW councils, and various environmental groups such as Cleanup Australia, Boomerang Alliance, and Total Environment Centre.\n\nIn February 2015 it was revealed that the Baird government has been under a well planned, sustained attack from multiple beverage industry companies and their executives. They have organised the lobbying of various members of parliament in NSW and other jurisdictions (even at the federal level) in order to gain influence over Mike Baird and Minister for the Environment, Rob Stokes, in order to force them to abandon plans for a container deposit scheme in NSW. The beverage industry has even threatened to run scare campaign election advertising. The government said that all of this time and money spent on lobbying has ultimately failed to change their position and the scheme will go ahead and is currently being designed. They have also invited the beverage industry to get on board.\n\nThe NSW government initially announced the start date of a container deposit/refund system being July 2017, however, this was extended to December 2017 following requests from environment groups and industry bodies. \n\nOn 8 May 2016 it was officially announced the NSW will be implementing a full 10c Container Deposit Scheme after looking at many options, including public submissions and industry alternatives. As it stands, drink containers from 150ml in size up to 3L will be covered as long as it has the appropriate NSW labelling. There will be some exclusions - such as wine bottles - as it is mainly targeting drink containers consumed away from home. Draft legislation will be brought forward and an implementation advisory group will be established to meet the 1 December 2017 start date. This will affect the ACT and also QLD which are currently examining options for a state based scheme.\n\nOn 29 July 2017 the NSW EPA announced the scheme coordinator would be a joint venture called Exchange for Change, comprising 5 of Australian beverage companies: Asahi, Carlton & United Breweries, Coca-Cola Amatil, Coopers Brewery and Lion. However, there has been some criticism of this decision given some of these organisations have actively opposed CDL in the past.\n\nOn 1 December 2017, the Container Deposit Scheme, named Return and Earn, officially started, as it pushed to reduce the volume of litter in NSW by 40% by 2020. During the first couple of weeks in the scheme, many people were complaining about it, which including drink prices going up, boxes and bags dumped next to the machines, the allowance of only cans and bottles that were empty, uncrushed, unbroken and had the original label attached, and also, the limited number of collection points around the state. Although there was plenty of problems throughout Return And Earn, the number of containers that were returned increased, as did the amount of collection points. The Environment Minister announced that the scheme has been a success, and they were working hard to fix the minor teething problems. During Christmas and New Years celebrations, the amount grew to over 1 million containers returned a day, and then to over 3 million in towards April March. As of 17 April, there is a growing number of the 549 collection points available out of the planned 800+, and over 240 million containers have been returned throughout the state. A common label has been developed which will start appearing on bottles and cans: \"10c refund at collection depots/points in participating State/Territory of purchase.\"\n\nThe Northern Territory introduced a container deposit scheme similar to South Australia's from 3 January 2012. This was challenged in the Federal Court by Coca-Cola Amatil, Schweppes Australia and Lion Pty Ltd using the Commonwealth Mutual Recognition Act and the scheme ceased on 4 March 2013. Immediately after the Federal Court loss, the NT government personally stepped in to keep the scheme going until a permanent exemption to the Mutual Recognition Act could be secured. On 7 August 2013 the Federal Executive Council (ExCo) ratified the permanent exemption making the NT container deposit scheme completely legal and permanent.\n\nDue to this, all beverage containers sold in Australia now must bear the words \"10c refund at SA/NT collection depots in state/territory of purchase\". With other jurisdictions implementing their own schemes a common label has been developed which will start appearing on bottles and cans: \"10c refund at collection depots/points in participating State/Territory of purchase\"\n\nIn 2013, the Newman government has indicated it does not want to increase the cost of QLD residents' costs of living, seeing the refund scheme as more of a tax rather than a refundable deposit even though 85% of Queenslanders are in favor of a scheme according to a Newspoll.\n\nIn February 2015, the newly elected Palaszczuk government indicated a total overhaul of the state's environmental policies including supporting a national container deposit scheme and also a state based container deposit scheme. It is likely that QLD will follow suit with NSW.\n\nIn May 2015 the QLD government announced its support for a Cash for Containers scheme in Queensland, potentially in 2018 after NSW implements its own scheme. The QLD environment minister says he was inspired by trash that was sent to his office. He has ordered a review and wants to establish an advisory group to help his department with a consultation process with the public and stake holders commencing later this year. He also says he will work with NSW. Eventually the Queensland government on 22 July 2016 announced that State will have a Container Deposit Scheme \"to get drink cans and bottles off our beaches, and out of our parks and public areas\". \nThe Queensland Container Refund Scheme (CRS) was to start from 1 July 2018 but was delayed to 1 November 2018.\n\nIn the days when bottles were washed and re-used, drinks manufacturers paid shopkeepers and \"marine store collectors\" (\"bottle-ohs\") for the return of their (proprietary) containers, both bottles and crates. By arrangement between the manufacturers, the refund to the consumer was standardized (for many decades 2d, later 6d or 5c. for soft drink bottles and ½d for generic beer bottles) and the collectors received a premium for their part in the process. A substantial cost was incurred by the manufacturer in the transportation, sorting, storage, washing and sterilizing of the bottles and their inspection for contamination and damage. With the advent of cheaper single-use bottles great savings were achievable, and their subsequent disposal the responsibility of the consumer.\n\nCDL in South Australia was put in place under the Beverage Container Act 1975 (SA) and came into operation in 1977. Environment Protection Act 1993 (SA) now governs the levying and refund of deposits.\n\nThere is a refund of 10 cents per can or bottle (raised from 5 cents in late 2008). In the 1970s deposits ranged from 20c for a 30 oz bottle and 10c for a 10 oz and 6½ oz bottle. With the introduction of plastic and non re-usable bottles the deposit was reduced to 5c (including aluminium cans). This amount remained unchanged for around thirty years.\n\nAround 600 people are employed in the recovery of bottles in South Australia. Groups such as the Scouts operate container refund depots. While there are professional collectors who collect on an arranged basis from particular venues (e.g. pubs and restaurants), usually operating small trucks for the job, there are also many socially marginalised collectors who forage in spots such as refuse bins for discarded deposit bottles; these collectors often travel by bicycle, sometimes with relatively elaborate and inventive modifications to allow them to carry bulky loads of bottles.\n\nUntil 2008, every beverage container in Australia bore the words \"5c refund at SA collection depots in state of purchase\". This changed to \"10c refund at SA collection depots in state of purchase\" in late 2008. Since the Northern Territory started their own scheme in 2012, this message has changed again. With other jurisdictions implementing their own schemes a common label has been developed which will start appearing on bottles and cans: \"10c refund at collection depots/points in participating State/Territory of purchase\".\n\nIn December 2014 a state based deposit scheme was rejected by the government, citing costs and the need to ship containers to the Australian mainland for processing. Various environmental organisations, including The Greens and many Tasmanian local councils have been pushing for a scheme in Tasmania for many years. Most people are in favour of a scheme according to various studies that have been conducted over the years.\n\nIn 2018 the Tasmanian Government has made a commitment to consider establishing a Container Refund Scheme (CRS) and has engaged a consulting company to produce a report with recommendations. This report is now available and the Tasmanian Government is now reviewing.\n\nThe state of Victoria once had a container deposit scheme in the 1980's called \"Cash for Cans\" but was rescinded in 1989.\nIn 2009 the Victorian Greens introduced a bill for a 10c deposit scheme, which was passed in the upper house but the government quashed the bill in the lower house, allegedly on constitutional grounds, by refusing to allow it to be debated. Despite supporting the Greens' bill when in opposition, when it later became the government the Coalition decided it would not back a bottle refund scheme. Instead, it said it would support a national scheme if one were created.\n\nIn 2012/2013, the Napthine government indicated its strong support for a state based scheme possibly in partnership with NSW. Since there has now been a change of government, the legislation has not been introduced into parliament as of January 2015.\n\nIn February 2015, the then Environment Minister Lisa Neville has publicly said she is not in favour of a container deposit scheme for Victoria. She believes current recycling programs are good enough, even though Clean-up Australia claims beverage related rubbish in Victoria now outnumbers cigarette related rubbish.\nIn July 2017 her successor Lily D'Ambrosio confirmed the state's continuing opposition to a state scheme on the basis that the costs would outweigh the environmental benefits.\n\nIn July 2018, Victorian Environment Minister Lily D'Ambrosio announced a $37m package to tackle recycling in her State. Although she is no longer explicitly saying a CDS for Victoria is off the table, she has stated that she is carefully monitoring the situation in NSW in relation to the newly rolled out scheme.\nThere are private companies that accept used aluminum cans and pay cash for them - usually by weight or by per filled 'metal storage cage'.\n\nIn 2011, opposition Labor and Greens MPs called for the introduction of a container deposit scheme. The Minister for Environment, Bill Marmion, said that WA would wait for a national \"consultation regulatory impact statement\" to be completed at the end of 2011 before taking any action.\n\nIn August 2016, the WA Government announced a State container deposit scheme commencing in 2018. Minister for the Environment Albert Jacob said that efforts to pursue a national scheme had \"fallen by the wayside\" but that Western Australia's policy should be aligned with recent changes in Queensland and New South Wales. After a change of government at the March 2017 election, the new Environment Minister Stephen Dawson said he wanted to make a container deposit scheme a priority and in August 2017. The new WA Government held public consultation and will start a container deposit scheme in January 2020 in a bid to lift the State’s low recycling rates.\n\nThrough the early 20th century, when the cost of producing glass bottles was higher, a natural industry of glass bottle collectors and merchants performed a similar function to the modern CDL. Bottle accumulators, a licensed and unionized workforce commonly known as \"bottle-ohs\" from their street cries, travelled by cart around the streets buying empty bottles from households and businesses. They would then sell the bottles to a bottle yard, which would store and sort the bottles before selling them in bulk to brewers and other bottlers. It was an industry from which a bottle-oh could make a good living; in 1904, they could buy a dozen beer bottles for 6d., sell them to the bottle yard for 9d., who could sell them to brewers for 1s. The commercial reuse of glass bottles and the bottle collecting industry had all but disappeared by the 1950s.\nSoft drink and other beverage bottles were still collected in Queensland and returned for deposits up to the late 1960s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57262493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57262493", "title": "Debjani Ghosh", "text": "Debjani Ghosh\n\nDebjani Ghosh is a Bangladeshi born researcher of the University of Ulm. Currently she is researching on how to create a new hybrid system of Zero emission of electric airliners.She is also working on the power generation management of the next generation of HY4. aircraft.She is the Asst. Lecturer of Power Electronics in University of Ulm in Germany. As fundamental research is very rare in Bangladesh, her research work is highly appreciated in a Bangladeshi leading news portal Prothom Alo. .\"Sky is the limit\" is truly go with Debjani. \n\nShe was born to Dipok Kumar Ghosh and Indira Ghosh in October 30, 1988.She went to Aparnacharan school and Chittagong Cantonment Public College.She completed her B.Sc in Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE) from Chittagong University of Engineering & Technology and MSc in Electrical Power Engineering from RWTH Aachen University.\n\nShe started her career as a lecturer in Premier University, Chittagong. Then go to Germany and did intership in Infineon Technologies. From the very beginning, her intention was to work with environment-friendly technology and renewable energy. So after completing M.Sc. from RWTH she joined the research team of Hy-4 project.Josef Kallo . is the chief researcher of this project. On 29 September 2016, the HY4 aircraft took off its first official flight. from Stuttgart Airport. The HY4 is the world’s first four-seat passenger aircraft powered solely by a hydrogen fuel cell system. A successful flight of a four-plane passenger plane, at the Stuttgart Airport in Germany, was completed on that day. Being a member of this research team she became part of the history of civil aviation in the world.\n\nShe also runs a web portal \"German Probashe\". . She is the Vice-President (Culture), Editor of \"German Probashe\". . This portal win Deutsche Welle The BOBs Award , Peoples Choice Winner of User Award Bengali]]. in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "7750539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7750539", "title": "Deductive closure", "text": "Deductive closure\n\nDeductive closure is a property of a set of objects (usually the objects in question are statements). A set of objects, O, is said to exhibit \"closure\" or to be \"closed\" under a given operation, R, provided that for every object, x, if x is a member of O and x is R-related to any object, y, then y is a member of O. In the context of statements, a deductive closure is the set of all the statements that can be deduced from a given set of statements.\n\nIn propositional logic, the set of all true propositions exhibits deductive closure: if set O is the set of true propositions, and operation R is logical consequence (“formula_1”), then provided that proposition p is a member of O and p is R-related to q (i.e., p formula_1 q), q is also a member of O.\n\nIn epistemology, many philosophers have and continue to debate whether particular subsets of propositions—especially ones ascribing knowledge or justification of a belief to a subject—are closed under deduction.\n"}
{"id": "22389723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22389723", "title": "Deidentification (psychology)", "text": "Deidentification (psychology)\n\nDeidentification is defined as the process in which one sibling defines their identity by intentionally attempting to be different from the other. Adolescents begin to go through deidentification for a number of reasons. It commonly occurs as a result from issues within the sibling relationship. Adolescents go through deidentification as a defense mechanism for eliminating sibling rivalry. When siblings closely resemble each other, it can make finding an identity difficult. This can lead to strong competitive behaviors and increased aggression between siblings. One survey concluded that 62% of high school seniors had physically struck their sibling in the past year. The Process of deidentification decreases the chance of sibling rivalry. Deidentification allows them to branch off to form their own, different identity and to become familiarized with their individual personality. According to research, they may also begin the process of deidentification to protect themselves from social comparison. Not all siblings will go through deidentification. It is more common in siblings who share common characteristics, such as age and sex.\n"}
{"id": "8753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8753", "title": "Dharma", "text": "Dharma\n\nDharma (; , ; , translit. \"dhamma\") is a key concept with multiple meanings in Indian religions like Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism and others. There is no single-word translation for \"dharma\" in Western languages.\n\nIn Hinduism, \"dharma\" signifies behaviours that are considered to be in accord with \"Ṛta\", the order that makes life and universe possible, and includes duties, rights, laws, conduct, virtues and \"right way of living\". In Buddhism, \"dharma\" means \"cosmic law and order\", and is also applied to the teachings of the Buddha. In Buddhist philosophy, \"dhamma/dharma\" is also the term for \"phenomena\". Dharma in Jainism refers to the teachings of \"tirthankara\" (\"Jina\") and the body of doctrine pertaining to the purification and moral transformation of human beings. For Sikhs, the word \"dharm\" means the path of righteousness and proper religious practice.\n\nThe word \"dharma\" was already in use in the historical Vedic religion, and its meaning and conceptual scope has evolved over several millennia. The antonym of dharma is \"adharma\".\n\nThe Classical Sanskrit noun \"dharma\" (धर्म) or the Prakrit Dhaṃma (𑀥𑀁𑀫) are a derivation from the root \"dhṛ\", which means \"to hold, maintain, keep\", and takes a meaning of \"what is established or firm\", and hence \"law\". It is derived from an older Vedic Sanskrit \"n\"-stem \"dharman-\", with a literal meaning of \"bearer, supporter\", in a religious sense conceived as an aspect of Rta.\n\nIn the Rigveda, the word appears as an \"n\"-stem, ', with a range of meanings encompassing \"something established or firm\" (in the literal sense of prods or poles). Figuratively, it means \"sustainer\" and \"supporter\" (of deities). It is semantically similar to the Greek \"Themis\" (\"fixed decree, statute, law\"). In Classical Sanskrit, the noun becomes thematic: '.\n\nThe word \"dharma\" derives from Proto-Indo-European root \n\nIn Classical Sanskrit, and in the Vedic Sanskrit of the Atharvaveda, the stem is thematic: \"\" (Devanāgarī: धर्म). In Prakrit and Pāli, it is rendered \"dhamma\". In some contemporary Indian languages and dialects it alternatively occurs as \"dharm\".\n\nWhen the Mauryan Emperor Ashoka wanted in the 3rd century BCE to translate the word \"Dharma\" (he used Prakrit word \"Dhaṃma\") into Greek and Aramaic, he used the Greek word \"Eusebeia\" (εὐσέβεια, piety, spiritual maturity, or godliness) in the Kandahar Bilingual Rock Inscription and the Kandahar Greek Edicts, and the Aramaic word \"Qsyt\" (\"Truth\") in the Kandahar Bilingual Rock Inscription.\n\nDharma is a concept of central importance in Indian philosophy and religion. It has multiple meanings in Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism. It is difficult to provide a single concise definition for \"dharma\", as the word has a long and varied history and straddles a complex set of meanings and interpretations. There is no equivalent single-word synonym for \"dharma\" in western languages.\n\nThere have been numerous, conflicting attempts to translate ancient Sanskrit literature with the word \"dharma\" into German, English and French. The concept, claims Paul Horsch, has caused exceptional difficulties for modern commentators and translators. For example, while Grassmann's translation of Rig-veda identifies seven different meanings of dharma, Karl Friedrich Geldner in his translation of the Rig-veda employs 20 different translations for dharma, including meanings such as \"law\", \"order\", \"duty\", \"custom\", \"quality\", and \"model\", among others. However, the word \"dharma\" has become a widely accepted loanword in English, and is included in all modern unabridged English dictionaries.\n\nThe root of the word \"dharma\" is \"dhri\", which means \"to support, hold, or bear\". It is the thing that regulates the course of change by not participating in change, but that principle which remains constant. Monier-Williams, the widely cited resource for definitions and explanation of Sanskrit words and concepts of Hinduism, offers numerous definitions of the word \"dharma\": such as that which is established or firm, steadfast decree, statute, law, practice, custom, duty, right, justice, virtue, morality, ethics, religion, religious merit, good works, nature, character, quality, property. Yet, each of these definitions is incomplete, while combination of these translations do not convey the total sense of the word. In common parlance, \"dharma\" means \"right way of living\" and \"path of rightness\".\n\nThe meaning of the word \"dharma\" depends on the context, and its meaning has evolved as ideas of Hinduism have developed through history. In the earliest texts and ancient myths of Hinduism, \"dharma\" meant cosmic law, the rules that created the universe from chaos, as well as rituals; in later Vedas, Upanishads, Puranas and the Epics, the meaning became refined, richer, and more complex, and the word was applied to diverse contexts.\nIn certain contexts, \"dharma\" designates human behaviours considered necessary for order of things in the universe, principles that prevent chaos, behaviours and action necessary to all life in nature, society, family as well as at the individual level. \"Dharma\" encompasses ideas such as duty, rights, character, vocation, religion, customs and all behaviour considered appropriate, correct or morally upright.\n\nThe antonym of \"dharma\" is \"adharma\" (Sanskrit: अधर्म), meaning that which is \"not dharma\". As with \"dharma\", the word \"adharma\" includes and implies many ideas; in common parlance, adharma means that which is against nature, immoral, unethical, wrong or unlawful.\n\nIn Buddhism, \"dharma\" incorporates the teachings and doctrines of the founder of Buddhism, the Buddha.\n\nAccording to the authoritative book \"History of Dharmasastra\", in the hymns of the Rigveda the word dharma appears at least fifty-six times, as an adjective or noun. According to Paul Horsch, the word dharma has its origin in the myths of Vedic Hinduism. The Brahman (whom all the gods make up), claim the hymns of the Rig Veda, created the universe from chaos, they hold (dhar-) the earth and sun and stars apart, they support (dhar-) the sky away and distinct from earth, and they stabilise (dhar-) the quaking mountains and plains. The gods, mainly Indra, then deliver and hold order from disorder, harmony from chaos, stability from instability – actions recited in the Veda with the root of word dharma. In hymns composed after the mythological verses, the word dharma takes expanded meaning as a cosmic principle and appears in verses independent of gods. It evolves into a concept, claims Paul Horsch, that has a dynamic functional sense in Atharvaveda for example, where it becomes the cosmic law that links cause and effect through a subject. Dharma, in these ancient texts, also takes a ritual meaning. The ritual is connected to the cosmic, and \"dharmani\" is equated to ceremonial devotion to the principles that gods used to create order from disorder, the world from chaos. Past the ritual and cosmic sense of dharma that link the current world to mythical universe, the concept extends to ethical-social sense that links human beings to each other and to other life forms. It is here that dharma as a concept of law emerges in Hinduism.\n\nDharma and related words are found in the oldest Vedic literature of Hinduism, in later Vedas, Upanishads, Puranas, and the Epics; the word dharma also plays a central role in the literature of other Indian religions founded later, such as Buddhism and Jainism. According to Brereton, \"Dharman\" occurs 63 times in Rig-veda; in addition, words related to Dharman also appear in Rig-veda, for example once as dharmakrt, 6 times as \"satyadharman\", and once as \"dharmavant\", 4 times as \"dharman\" and twice as \"dhariman\". \n\nIndo-European parallels for \"Dharma\" are known, but the only Iranian equivalent is Old Persian \"darmān\" \"remedy\", the meaning of which is rather removed from Indo-Aryan \"dhárman\", suggesting that the word \"Dharma\" did not have a major role in the Indo-Iranian period, and was principally developed more recently under the Vedic tradition. However, it is thought that the \"Daena\" of Zoroastrianism, also meaning the \"eternal Law\" or \"religion\", is related to Sanskrit \"Dharma\". Ideas in parts overlapping to \"Dharma\" are found in other ancient cultures: such as Chinese Tao, Egyptian Maat, Sumerian Me.\n\nIn mid-20th century, an inscription of the Indian Emperor Asoka from the year 258 BC was discovered in Afghanistan, the Kandahar Bilingual Rock Inscription. This rock inscription contains Greek and Aramaic text. According to , on the rock appears a Greek rendering for the Sanskrit word dharma: the word eusebeia. Scholars of Hellenistic Greece explain eusebeia as a complex concept. Eusebia means not only to venerate gods, but also spiritual maturity, a reverential attitude toward life, and includes the right conduct toward one's parents, siblings and children, the right conduct between husband and wife, and the conduct between biologically unrelated people. This rock inscription, concludes Paul Hacker, suggests dharma in India, about 2300 years ago, was a central concept and meant not only religious ideas, but ideas of right, of good, of one's duty toward the human community.\n\nThe evolving literature of Hinduism linked \"dharma\" to two other important concepts: \"Ṛta\" and \"Māyā\". Ṛta in Vedas is the truth and cosmic principle which regulates and coordinates the operation of the universe and everything within it. Māyā in Rig-veda and later literature means illusion, fraud, deception, magic that misleads and creates disorder, thus is contrary to reality, laws and rules that establish order, predictability and harmony. Paul Horsch suggests Ṛta and dharma are parallel concepts, the former being a cosmic principle, the latter being of moral social sphere; while Māyā and dharma are also analogous concepts, the former being that which corrupts law and moral life, the later being that which strengthens law and moral life.\n\nDay proposes dharma is a manifestation of Ṛta, but suggests Ṛta may have been subsumed into a more complex concept of dharma, as the idea developed in ancient India over time in a nonlinear manner. The following verse from the Rigveda is an example where \"rta\" and dharma are linked:\n\nDharma is an organising principle in Hinduism that applies to human beings in solitude, in their interaction with human beings and nature, as well as between inanimate objects, to all of cosmos and its parts. It refers to the order and customs which make life and universe possible, and includes behaviours, rituals, rules that govern society, and ethics. Hindu dharma includes the religious duties, moral rights and duties of each individual, as well as behaviours that enable social order, right conduct, and those that are virtuous. Dharma, according to Van Buitenen, is that which all existing beings must accept and respect to sustain harmony and order in the world. It is neither the act nor the result, but the natural laws that guide the act and create the result to prevent chaos in the world. It is innate characteristic, that makes the being what it is. It is, claims Van Buitenen, the pursuit and execution of one's nature and true calling, thus playing one's role in cosmic concert. In Hinduism, it is the dharma of the bee to make honey, of cow to give milk, of sun to radiate sunshine, of river to flow. In terms of humanity, dharma is the need for, the effect of and essence of service and interconnectedness of all life.\n\nIn Hinduism, \"dharma\" includes two aspects – \"sanātana dharma\", which is the overall, unchanging and abiding principals of dharma and is not subject to change, and \"yuga dharma\", which is valid for a yuga, an epoch or age as established by Hindu tradition.\n\nThe history section of this article discusses the development of dharma concept in Vedas. This development continued in the Upanishads and later ancient scripts of Hinduism. In Upanishads, the concept of dharma continues as universal principle of law, order, harmony, and truth. It acts as the regulatory moral principle of the Universe. It is explained as law of righteousness and equated to \"satya\" (Sanskrit: सत्यं, truth), in hymn 1.4.14 of Brhadaranyaka Upanishad, as follows:\n\nThe Hindu religion and philosophy, claims Daniel Ingalls, places major emphasis on individual practical morality. In the Sanskrit epics, this concern is omnipresent.\n\nIn the Second Book of Ramayana, for example, a peasant asks the King to do what dharma morally requires of him, the King agrees and does so even though his compliance with the law of dharma costs him dearly. Similarly, dharma is at the centre of all major events in the life of Rama, Sita, and Lakshman in Ramayana, claims Daniel Ingalls. Each episode of Ramayana presents life situations and ethical questions in symbolic terms. The issue is debated by the characters, finally the right prevails over wrong, the good over evil. For this reason, in Hindu Epics, the good, morally upright, law-abiding king is referred to as \"dharmaraja\".\n\nIn Mahabharata, the other major Indian epic, similarly, dharma is central, and it is presented with symbolism and metaphors. Near the end of the epic, the god Yama, referred to as dharma in the text, is portrayed as taking the form of a dog to test the compassion of Yudishthira, who is told he may not enter paradise with such an animal, but refuses to abandon his companion, for which decision he is then praised by dharma. The value and appeal of the Mahabharata is not as much in its complex and rushed presentation of metaphysics in the 12th book, claims Ingalls, because Indian metaphysics is more eloquently presented in other Sanskrit scriptures; the appeal of Mahabharata, like Ramayana, is in its presentation of a series of moral problems and life situations, to which there are usually three answers given, according to Ingalls: one answer is of Bhima, which is the answer of brute force, an individual angle representing materialism, egoism, and self; the second answer is of Yudhishthira, which is always an appeal to piety and gods, of social virtue and of tradition; the third answer is of introspective Arjuna, which falls between the two extremes, and who, claims Ingalls, symbolically reveals the finest moral qualities of man. The Epics of Hinduism are a symbolic treatise about life, virtues, customs, morals, ethics, law, and other aspects of dharma. There is extensive discussion of dharma at the individual level in the Epics of Hinduism, observes Ingalls; for example, on free will versus destiny, when and why human beings believe in either, ultimately concluding that the strong and prosperous naturally uphold free will, while those facing grief or frustration naturally lean towards destiny. The Epics of Hinduism illustrate various aspects of dharma, they are a means of communicating dharma with metaphors.\n\nAccording to Klaus Klostermaier, 4th century Hindu scholar Vātsyāyana explained dharma by contrasting it with adharma. Vātsyāyana suggested that dharma is not merely in one's actions, but also in words one speaks or writes, and in thought. According to Vātsyāyana:\n\n\nIn the Yoga system the dharma is real; in the Vedanta it is unreal.\nDharma is part of yoga, suggests Patanjali; the elements of Hindu dharma are the attributes, qualities and aspects of yoga. Patanjali explained dharma in two categories: \"yama\" (restraints) and \"niyama\" (observances).\n\nThe five yama, according to Patanjali, are: abstain from injury to all living creatures (ahimsa), abstain from falsehood (satya), abstain from unauthorised appropriation of things-of-value from another (acastrapurvaka), abstain from coveting or sexually cheating on your partner, and abstain from expecting or accepting gifts from others. The five yama apply in action, speech and mind. In explaining yama, Patanjali clarifies that certain professions and situations may require qualification in conduct. For example, a fisherman must injure a fish, but he must attempt to do this with least trauma to fish and the fisherman must try to injure no other creature as he fishes.\n\nThe five niyama (observances) are cleanliness by eating pure food and removing impure thoughts (such as arrogance or jealousy or pride), contentment in one's means, meditation and silent reflection regardless of circumstances one faces, study and pursuit of historic knowledge, and devotion of all actions to the Supreme Teacher to achieve perfection of concentration.\n\nDharma is an empirical and experiential inquiry for every man and woman, according to some texts of Hinduism. For example, Apastamba Dharmasutra states:\n\nIn other texts, three sources and means to discover dharma in Hinduism are described. These, according to , are: First, learning historical knowledge such as Vedas, Upanishads, the Epics and other Sanskrit literature with the help of one's teacher. Second, observing the behavior and example of good people. The third source applies when neither one's education nor example exemplary conduct is known. In this case, \"atmatusti\" is the source of dharma in Hinduism, that is the good person reflects and follows what satisfies his heart, his own inner feeling, what he feels driven to.\n\nSome texts of Hinduism outline \"dharma\" for society and at the individual level. Of these, the most cited one is \"Manusmriti\", which describes the four \"Varnas\", their rights and duties. Most texts of Hinduism, however, discuss \"dharma\" with no mention of \"Varna\" (caste). Other dharma texts and Smritis differ from Manusmriti on the nature and structure of Varnas. Yet, other texts question the very existence of varna. Bhrigu, in the Epics, for example, presents the theory that dharma does not require any varnas. In practice, medieval India is widely believed to be a socially stratified society, with each social strata inheriting a profession and being endogamous. Varna was not absolute in Hindu dharma; individuals had the right to renounce and leave their Varna, as well as their asramas of life, in search of moksa. While neither Manusmriti nor succeeding Smritis of Hinduism ever use the word varnadharma (that is, the dharma of varnas), or varnasramadharma (that is, the dharma of varnas and asramas), the scholarly commentary on Manusmriti use these words, and thus associate dharma with varna system of India. In 6th century India, even Buddhist kings called themselves \"protectors of varnasramadharma\" – that is, dharma of varna and asramas of life.\n\nAt the individual level, some texts of Hinduism outline four āśramas, or stages of life as individual's dharma. These are: (1) brahmacārya, the life of preparation as a student, (2) gṛhastha, the life of the householder with family and other social roles, (3) vānprastha or aranyaka, the life of the forest-dweller, transitioning from worldly occupations to reflection and renunciation, and (4) sannyāsa, the life of giving away all property, becoming a recluse and devotion to moksa, spiritual matters.\n\nThe four stages of life complete the four human strivings in life, according to Hinduism. Dharma enables the individual to satisfy the striving for stability and order, a life that is lawful and harmonious, the striving to do the right thing, be good, be virtuous, earn religious merit, be helpful to others, interact successfully with society. The other three strivings are Artha – the striving for means of life such as food, shelter, power, security, material wealth, etc.; Kama – the striving for sex, desire, pleasure, love, emotional fulfillment, etc.; and Moksa – the striving for spiritual meaning, liberation from life-rebirth cycle, self-realisation in this life, etc. The four stages are neither independent nor exclusionary in Hindu dharma.\n\nDharma while being necessary for individual and society, is dependent on poverty and prosperity in a society, according to Hindu dharma scriptures. For example, according to Adam Bowles, Shatapatha Brahmana 11.1.6.24 links social prosperity and \"dharma\" through water. Waters come from rains, it claims; when rains are abundant there is prosperity on the earth, and this prosperity enables people to follow Dharma – moral and lawful life. In times of distress, of drought, of poverty, everything suffers including relations between human beings and the human ability to live according to dharma.\n\nIn Rajadharmaparvan 91.34-8, the relationship between poverty and dharma reaches a full circle. A land with less moral and lawful life suffers distress, and as distress rises it causes more immoral and unlawful life, which further increases distress. Those in power must follow the raja dharma (that is, dharma of rulers), because this enables the society and the individual to follow dharma and achieve prosperity.\n\nThe notion of \"dharma\" as duty or propriety is found in India's ancient legal and religious texts. In Hindu philosophy, justice, social harmony, and happiness requires that people live per dharma. The Dharmashastra is a record of these guidelines and rules. The available evidence suggest India once had a large collection of dharma related literature (sutras, shastras); four of the sutras survive and these are now referred to as Dharmasutras. Along with laws of Manu in Dharmasutras, exist parallel and different compendium of laws, such as the laws of Narada and other ancient scholars. These different and conflicting law books are neither exclusive, nor do they supersede other sources of dharma in Hinduism. These Dharmasutras include instructions on education of the young, their rites of passage, customs, religious rites and rituals, marital rights and obligations, death and ancestral rites, laws and administration of justice, crimes, punishments, rules and types of evidence, duties of a king, as well as morality.\n\nIn Buddhism \"dharma\" means cosmic law and order, but is also applied to the teachings of the Buddha. In Buddhist philosophy, \"dhamma/dharma\" is also the term for \"phenomena\". In East Asia, the translation for dharma is 法, pronounced \"fǎ\" in Mandarin, \"choe ཆོས་\" in Tibetan, \"beop\" in Korean, \"hō\" in Japanese, and \"pháp\" in Vietnamese. However, the term dharma can also be transliterated from its original form. \n\nFor practicing Buddhists, references to \"dharma\" (\"dhamma\" in Pali) particularly as \"the Dharma\", generally means the teachings of the Buddha, commonly known throughout the East as Buddha-Dharma. It includes especially the discourses on the fundamental principles (such as the Four Noble Truths and the Noble Eightfold Path), as opposed to the parables and to the poems.\n\nThe status of Dharma is regarded variably by different Buddhist traditions. Some regard it as an ultimate truth, or as the fount of all things which lie beyond the \"three realms\" (Sanskrit: \"tridhatu\") and the \"wheel of becoming\" (Sanskrit: \"bhavachakra\"), somewhat like the pagan Greek and Christian logos: this is known as \"Dharmakaya\" (Sanskrit). Others, who regard the Buddha as simply an enlightened human being, see the Dharma as the essence of the \"84,000 different aspects of the teaching\" (Tibetan: \"chos-sgo brgyad-khri bzhi strong\") that the Buddha gave to various types of people, based upon their individual propensities and capabilities.\n\nDharma refers not only to the sayings of the Buddha, but also to the later traditions of interpretation and addition that the various schools of Buddhism have developed to help explain and to expand upon the Buddha's teachings. For others still, they see the Dharma as referring to the \"truth\", or the ultimate reality of \"the way that things really are\" (Tib. Cho).\n\nThe Dharma is one of the Three Jewels of Buddhism in which practitioners of Buddhism seek refuge, or that upon which one relies for his or her lasting happiness. The Three Jewels of Buddhism are the Buddha, meaning the mind's perfection of enlightenment, the Dharma, meaning the teachings and the methods of the Buddha, and the Sangha, meaning the monastic community who provide guidance and support to followers of the Buddha.\n\nDharma is employed in Ch'an in a specific context in relation to transmission of authentic doctrine, understanding and bodhi; recognised in Dharma transmission.\n\nThe word Dharma in Jainism is found in all its key texts. It has a contextual meaning and refers to a number of ideas. In the broadest sense, it means the teachings of the Jinas, or teachings of any competing spiritual school, a supreme path, socio-religious duty, and that which is the highest \"mangala\" (holy).\n\nThe term \"dharma\" also has a specific ontological and soteriological meaning in Jainism, as a part of its theory of six dravya (substance or a reality). In the Jain tradition, existence consists of \"jiva\" (soul, atman) and \"ajiva\" (non-soul), the latter consisting of five categories: inert non-sentient atomic matter (pudgala), space (akasha), time (kala), principle of motion (dharma), and principle of rest (adharma). The use of the term \"dharma\" to mean motion and to refer to an ontological sub-category is peculiar to Jainism, and not found in the metaphysics of Buddhism and various schools of Hinduism.\n\nThe major Jain text, \"Tattvartha Sutra\" mentions \"Das-dharma\" with the meaning of \"ten righteous virtues\". These are forbearance, modesty, straightforwardness, purity, truthfulness, self-restraint, austerity, renunciation, non-attachment, and celibacy. Acārya Amṛtacandra, author of the Jain text, \"Puruṣārthasiddhyupāya\" writes:\nFor Sikhs, the word \"Dharm\" means the path of righteousness and proper religious practice. Guru Granth Sahib in hymn 1353 connotes dharma as duty. The 3HO movement in Western culture, which has incorporated certain Sikh beliefs, defines Sikh Dharma broadly as all that constitutes religion, moral duty and way of life.\n\nThe importance of \"dharma\" to Indian sentiments is illustrated by India's decision in 1947 to include the Ashoka Chakra, a depiction of the \"dharmachakra\" ( the \"wheel of dharma\"), as the central motif on its flag.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32329916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32329916", "title": "Dual-flashlight plot", "text": "Dual-flashlight plot\n\nIn statistics, a dual-flashlight plot is a type of scatter-plot in which the standardized mean (SMCV) is plotted against the mean of a contrast variable representing a comparison of interest\n. The commonly used dual-flashlight plot is for the difference between two groups in high-throughput experiments such as microarrays and high-throughput screening studies, in which we plot the SSMD versus average log fold-change on the \"y\"- and \"x\"-axes, respectively, for all genes or compounds (such as siRNAs or small molecules) investigated in an experiment. \nAs a whole, the points in a dual-flashlight plot look like the beams of a flashlight with two heads, hence the name dual-flashlight plot.\n\nWith the dual-flashlight plot, we can see how the genes or compounds are distributed into each category in effect sizes, as shown in the figure. Meanwhile, we can also see the average fold-change for each gene or compound. The dual-flashlight plot is similar to the volcano plot. In a volcano plot, the p-value (or q-value), instead of SMCV or SSMD, is plotted against average fold-change \n. The advantage of using SMCV over p-value (or q-value) is that, if there exist any non-zero true effects for a gene or compound, the estimated SMCV goes to its population value whereas the p-value (or q-value) for testing no mean difference (or zero contrast mean) goes to zero when the sample size increases \n. Hence, the value of SMCV is comparable whereas the value of p-value or q-value is not comparable in experiments with different sample size, especially when many investigated genes or compounds do not have exactly zero effects. The dual-flashlight plot bears the same advantage that the SMCV has, as compared to the volcano plot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39369611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39369611", "title": "Echolocation jamming", "text": "Echolocation jamming\n\nEcholocation (or sonar) systems of animals, like human radar systems, are susceptible to interference known as echolocation jamming or sonar jamming. Jamming occurs when non-target sounds interfere with target echoes. Jamming can be purposeful or inadvertent, and can be caused by the echolocation system itself, other echolocating animals, prey, or humans. Echolocating animals have evolved to minimize jamming, however, echolocation avoidance behaviors are not always successful.\n\nEcholocating animals can jam themselves in a number of ways. Bats, for example, produce some of the loudest sounds in nature, and then they immediately listen for echoes that are hundreds of times fainter than the sounds they emit. To avoid deafening themselves, whenever a bat makes an echolocation emission, a small muscle in the bat's middle ear (the stapedius muscle) clamps down on small bones called ossicles, which normally amplify sounds between the ear drum and the cochlea. This dampens the intensity of the sounds that the bat hears during this time, preserving hearing sensitivity to target echoes.\n\nJamming can occur if an animal is still producing a sound when an echo returns, for example, from a nearby object. Bats avoid this type of jamming by producing short sounds of 3-50 ms when searching for prey or navigating. Bats produce progressively shorter sounds, down to 0.5 ms, to avoid self-jamming when echolocating targets that they are approaching. This is because echoes from nearby targets will return to the bat sooner than sounds from distant targets.\n\nAnother form of jamming occurs when an echolocating animal produces many sounds in succession and assigns an echo to the wrong emission. To avoid this type of jamming, bats typically wait enough time for echoes to return from all possible targets before making the next sound. This can be seen clearly when a bat attacks an insect. The bat produces sounds with progressively shorter time intervals, but always allowing enough time for sounds to travel to the target and back. Another way bats overcome this problem is by producing successive sounds with unique time-frequency structures. This allows bats to process echoes from multiple emissions at the same time, and to correctly assign an echo to its emission using its time-frequency signature.\n\nLike electric fish, echolocating animals are susceptible to jamming from other animals of the same species emitting signals in the nearby environment. To avoid such jamming, bats use a strategy also employed by electric fish to avoid this jamming: a behavior known as jamming avoidance response (JAR). In a JAR, one or both animals change the frequency of their sounds away from that used by the other animal. This has the effect of allowing each animal a unique frequency bandwidth where jamming will not occur. Bats can make this adjustment very rapidly, often in less than 0.2 seconds.\n\nBig brown bats can avoid jamming by going silent for periods of time when following another echolocating big brown bat. This sometimes allows the silent bat to capture a prey in competitive foraging situations.\n\nMany tiger moths produce ultrasonic clicks in response to the echolocation calls bats use while attacking prey. For most species of tiger moth these clicks warn bats that the moths have toxic compounds that make them distasteful. However, the tiger moth \"Bertholdia trigona\" produces clicks at a very high rate (up to 4,500 per second) to jam bat echolocation. Jamming is the most effective defense against bats ever documented, with jamming causing a ten-fold decrease in bat capture success in the field.\n\nThe possibility that moths jam bat echolocation arose with an experiment report published in 1965 by Dorothy Dunning and Kenneth Roeder. Moth clicks were played through a loudspeaker as bats tried to capture mealworms catapulted through the air. Moth clicks caused bats to veer away from the mealworms, but echolocation calls played through the speaker did not, causing the authors to conclude that the moth clicks themselves dissuaded the bats. However, it was later determined that the moth clicks were played at an unnaturally loud level, invalidating this conclusion.\n\nIn subsequent years Dunning conducted further experiments to show that moth clicks serve a warning function. That is, they communicate to bats that the moths are toxic, as many moths accumulate toxic chemicals from their host plants as caterpillars and keep them in their tissues through adulthood. Roeder agreed with Dunning’s findings.\n\nJames Fullard and colleagues published findings in 1979, and 1994 arguing in favor of the jamming hypothesis based on the acoustic characteristics of moth clicks, however this hypothesis was still widely debated in the literature during that time.\n\nIn the 1990s experiments were conducted broadcasting clicks to bats performing echolocation tasks on a platform and with neurophysiological methods to demonstrate a plausible mechanism for jamming. The researchers concluded that most tiger moths do not produce enough sound to jam bat sonar.\n\nThe first study to conclusively demonstrate that moths jam bats was published in 2009 by researchers at Wake Forest University. In this study big brown bats were raised in captivity to ensure they had no prior experience with clicking prey and trained to attack moths tethered to a thin line attached to the ceiling in an indoor flight room. Over a nine-night experiment the bats attacked non-clicking control moths and clicking \"Bertholdia trigona\" – moths that were selected for their extraordinary clicking abilities. Bats had substantial difficulty catching the clicking moths compared to silent controls, and ate the \"B. trigona\" moths when they had the opportunity, thus refuting the hypothesis that the clicks were warning the bats of moths’ toxicity. Moth clicks also disrupted the stereotypical pattern of the bats echolocation, confirming the clicks’ jamming function.\n\nHumans may jam echolocating animals deliberately or accidentally. Recent efforts have been made to develop acoustic jamming deterrents to exclude bats from buildings or bridges, or to keep bats away from wind turbines where large numbers of mortalities occur. These deterrents have been shown to reduce bat activity over a small area. However, scaling up acoustic deterrents to large volumes for applications such as keeping bats away from wind turbines is difficult because of the high atmospheric attenuation of ultrasound.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2164464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164464", "title": "Ekam", "text": "Ekam\n\nEkam (Tamil: ஏகம், \"the supreme oneness\") is the term used in Akilathirattu Ammanai, the holy book of the religion of Ayyavazhi, to represent The Ultimate Oneness. In Thiruvasakam-2 it was stated that it was from this \"Ekam\" that all objects, including the separate Godheads, Devas and asuras, of the universe formed. As per Akilam, this state of \"ekam\" is beyond the consciousness and derived to beyond the state of changing and is the extreme state in which the whole universe exists. \n\nIn Saivism, \"Ekam\" is used commonly to refer to the oneness of God, but in Ayyavazhi the basic oneness is separately symbolized to be supreme and ultimate beyond all God-heads and powers. \n\nThe \"Ekam\" is said to be the supreme as well as the ultimate self from which the whole cosmos formed. This formless attribute is said to be defined from the human point of view. But this formless \"Ekam\", without losing its constant and formless nature, is present inside all things in the universe. That is, it remains as infinite within every finite, formless within every definite form. It is the supreme absolute self in which all the substances of cosmos shares their existence.\n\nThe derivations of \"Ekam\" in Ayyavazhi scriptures are sometime close to the pantheistic form of theology. In the mythology of Ayyavazhi God-heads such as Siva, Vishnu are said to be the godheads who have power to rule this Ekam, varying from time to time, Siva until Kaliyuga and Vishnu from the starting of Kaliyuga. There are separate quotes in Akilam for focusing Siva as well as Vishnu as capable for position. But, still the \"Ekam\" is addressed beyond these god-heads.\n\nBut when Vaikundar, is jailed in Singarathoppe, he says \"I am the one who created the Ekam and the one who is omnipresent everywhere\". By this, the theology reveals Vaikundar (God) as beyond the attributes of Ekam, which moves the theology of Ayyavazhi more towards pantheism.\n\n\"Ekam\" is Sanskrit for \"one, single, solitary\" (neuter gender), as a noun meaning \"unity\". In spirituality, it refers to monism akin to that of Brahman in Advaita philosophy and Smarta theology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "214269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=214269", "title": "Emergent algorithm", "text": "Emergent algorithm\n\nAn emergent algorithm is an algorithm that exhibits emergent behavior. In essence an emergent algorithm implements a set of simple \"building block\" behaviors that when combined exhibit more complex behaviors. One example of this is the implementation of fuzzy motion controllers used to adapt robot movement in response to environmental obstacles.\n\nAn emergent algorithm has the following characteristics: \n\n\nOther examples of emergent algorithms and models include cellular automata, artificial neural networks and swarm intelligence systems (ant colony optimization, bees algorithm, etc.).\n\n"}
{"id": "3230875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3230875", "title": "Evolutionary Principle", "text": "Evolutionary Principle\n\nThe Evolutionary Principle is a largely psychological doctrine which roughly states that when a species is removed from the habitat in which it evolved, or that habitat changes significantly within a brief period (evolutionarily speaking), the species will develop maladaptive or outright pathological behavior. The Evolutionary Principle is important in neo-tribalist and anarcho-primitivist thinking.\n"}
{"id": "49083018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49083018", "title": "Grimace scale (animals)", "text": "Grimace scale (animals)\n\nThe grimace scale (GS), sometimes called the grimace score, is a method of assessing the occurrence or severity of pain experienced by non-human animals according to objective and blinded scoring of facial expressions, as is done routinely for the measurement of pain in non-verbal humans. Observers score the presence or prominence of “facial action units\" (FAU), e.g. Orbital Tightening, Nose Bulge, Ear Position and Whisker Change. These are scored by observing the animal directly in real-time, or post hoc from photographs or screen-grabs from videos. The facial expression of the animals is sometimes referred to as the pain face.\n\nThe GS method of pain assessment is highly applicable to laboratory rodents as these are usually prey species which tend to inhibit the expression of pain to prevent appearing vulnerable to predators. For this reason, behavioural changes in these species are mainly observed with acute pain (hours) but are less pronounced in longer-lasting pain (days).\n\nFor mice at least, the GS has been shown to be a highly accurate, repeatable and reliable means of assessing pain requiring only a short period of training for the observer. Across species, GS are proven to have high accuracy and reliability, and are considered useful for indicating both procedural and postoperative pain, and for assessing the efficacy of analgesics.\n\nThe overall accuracy of GS is reported as 97% for mice, 84% for rabbits, 82% for rats and 73.3% for horses.\n\nFacial expressions have long been considered as indicators of emotion in both human and non-human animals. The biologist, Charles Darwin, considered that non-human animals exhibit similar facial expressions to emotional states as do humans. The assessment of changes in human anatomy during facial expressions were successfully translated from humans to non-human primates, such as the chimpanzee (ChimpFACS ) and rhesus macaque (MaqFACS ), but were not originally applied to assess pain in these species. In 2010, a team of researchers successfully developed the first method to assess pain using changes in facial expression in any non-human animal species. Broadly speaking, GS quantify spontaneous pain according to objective and blinded scoring of facial expressions, as is done routinely for the measurement of pain in non-verbal humans. Observers score the presence and extent of \"facial action units\" (FAU), e.g. Orbital Tightening, Nose Bulge, Ear Position and Whisker Change. These are scored in real-time by observing the animal directly, or, post hoc from photographs or screen-grabs from videos.\n\nThis method of pain assessment is highly applicable to prey animals which tend to inhibit the overt expression of pain to prevent appearing vulnerable to predators. For this reason, behavioural changes in these species are mainly observed with acute pain (hours) but are less pronounced in longer-lasting pain (days).\n\nGS offer advantages over other methods of pain assessment. For example, the analgesic morphine reduces pain but can affect other aspects of behaviour in pain-free animals, for example, excitement, increased activity or sedation, which can hamper traditional behavioural assessment of its action on pain. Morphine not only reduces the frequency of \"pain faces\" but has no effect on GS in baseline, pain-free mice.\n\nThe GS for mice usually consists of five FAU, i.e. Orbital Tightening, Nose Bulge, Cheek Bulge, Ear position and Whisker Change. These are scored on a 0-2 scale where 0=the criterion is absent, 1=moderately present and 2=obviously present (for exemplar images, see here ). In mice, the GS offers a means of assessing post-operative pain that is as effective as manual behavioural-based scoring, without the limitations of such approaches.\n\nFacial grimacing by mice after undergoing laparotomy surgery indicates postoperative pain lasts for 36 to 48 h (and at relatively high levels for 8 to 12 h) with relative exacerbation during the early dark (active) photo-phase. Furthermore, the grimacing indicates that buprenorphine is fully efficacious at recommended doses against early postoperative pain, but carprofen and ketoprofen are efficacious only at doses much higher than currently recommended: acetaminophen is not efficacious.\n\nA study in 2014 examined postoperative pain in mice following surgical induction of myocardial infarction. The effectiveness of the GS at identifying pain was compared with a traditional welfare scoring system based on behavioural, clinical and procedure-specific criteria. It was reported that post hoc GS (but not real-time GS) indicated a significant proportion of the mice were in low-level pain at 24 h which were not identified as such by traditional assessment methods. Importantly, those mice identified as experiencing low-level pain responded to analgesic treatment, indicating the traditional methods of welfare assessment were insensitive in this aspect of pain recognition.\n\nMice with induced sickle cell disease and their controls exhibited a \"pain face\" when tested on a cold plate, but sickle mice showed increased intensity compared to controls; this was confirmed using Von Frey filaments a traditional method of pain assessment. GS have also been used to assess pain and methods of its alleviation in pancreatitis.\nGS have also been used to test the degree of pain caused as a side-effect of therapeutic drugs and methods of mitigating the pain.\n\nThe mouse GS has been shown to be a highly accurate, repeatable and reliable means of assessing pain, requiring only a short period of training for the observer.\n\nIt has been noted that DBA/2 strain mice, but not CBA strain mice, show an increase in GS score following only isoflurane anaesthesia, which should be taken into account when using the GS to assess pain. Administration of a common analgesic, buprenorphine, had no effect on the GS of either strain.\n\nThere are interactions between the sex and strain of mice in their GS and also the method that is used to collect the data (i.e. real-time or post hoc), which indicates scorers need to consider these factors.\n\nIt is important to establish whether methods of pain assessment in laboratory animals are influenced by other factors, especially those which are a normal part of routine procedures or husbandry. There is no difference in GS scores between mice handled using a tube compared with mice picked up by the tail, indicating these handling techniques are not confounding factors in GS assessment. A similar study reported there was no difference between GS scores at baseline and immediately post ear notching (a method frequently used to identify laboratory mice), potentially indicating that the pain associated with ear notching is either too acute to assess using the GS tool or the practice is not painful.\n\nThere are differences between the \"pain face\" of mice and rats. In mice, the nose and cheek at baseline have a smooth appearance, but in the presence of pain, change to distinct bulges in both the nose and cheek regions. By contrast, in rats at baseline, the nose and cheek regions show distinct bulging, and with pain, the bridge of the nose flattens and elongates causing the whisker pads to flatten. As a consequence of these differences, the GS for rats sometimes use four FAU, i.e. Orbital Tightening, Nose/Cheek Flattening, Ear Changes and Whisker Changes. Nose/Cheek Flattening, appears to show the highest correlation with the presence of pain in the rat.\n\nGS for rats has been used to assess pain due to surgery, orthodontic tooth movement, and the efficacy of analgesics for these procedures and other painful conditions. Furthermore, GS have been used to examine the effects of postoperative analgesia on the reduction of post-operative cognitive dysfunction in aged rats.\n\nAs with mice, studies have examined the extent of agreement in assessing pain between rat GS and the use of von Frey filaments. Good agreement has been found between these in relation to three models of pain (intraplantar carrageenan, intraplantar complete Freund's adjuvant and plantar incision). The GS score significantly increased in all pain models and the peak GS score also coincided with the development of paw hypersensitivity, although hypersensitivity persisted after GS scores returned to baseline.\n\nFor rats, software (Rodent Face Finder®) has been developed which successfully automates the most labour-intensive step in the process of quantifying the GS, i.e. frame-grabbing individual face-containing frames from digital video, which is hindered by animals not looking directly at the camera or poor images due to motion blurring.\n\nA GS for rabbits using four FAU, i.e. Orbital Tightening, Cheek Flattening, Nose Shape, Whisker Position (Ear Position is excluded from the analysis) has been developed (for exemplar images, see here ) and used to assess the effectiveness of an analgesic cream for rabbits having undergone ear-tattooing. Similarly, a GS has been used to evaluate wellness in the post-procedural monitoring of rabbits.\n\nBased on the identification of FAU in rodents and rabbits, a GS for horses has been developed from post-operative (castration) individuals. This is based on six FAU, i.e. Stiffly Backwards Ears, Orbital Tightening, Tension Above the Eye Area, Prominent Strained Chewing Muscles, Mouth Strained and Pronounced Chin, Strained Nostrils and Flattening of the Profile (for exemplar images, see here.) The HGS has thereafter been used to evaluate pain behavior in the laminitic horse, where it was concluded that the grimace scale can be used to assess the degree of pain also here, when compared to the Obel scale.\n\nA related study describes the equine “pain face” after pain induction by a tourniquet on the antebrachium or topical capsaicin. The pain face here involves similar facial expressions described for the HGS; low and/or asymmetrical ears, an angled appearance of the eyes, a withdrawn and/or tense stare, medio-laterally dilated nostrils and tension of the lips, chin and certain mimetic muscles and can potentially be incorporated to improve existing pain evaluation tools. From the described pain face, The Equine Pain Scale has been developed. \nAnother pain scale has been described (EQUUS-FAP) which also has proven to assess acute pain in horses in a significant way.\n\nTo map and explain the different facial expressions seen in the equine face during acute pain, an equine facial action coding system (EquiFACS) has been developed. Seventeen FAU have been identified and the involved anatomical structures behind each facial expression are explained and compared to facial expressions seen in other species.\n\nObservers shown facial images from painful and pain-free cats had difficulty in identifying pain-free from painful cats, with only 13% of observers being able to discriminate more than 80% of painful cats.\n\nA GS for sheep has been developed to detect pain caused by naturally occurring diseases such as footrot and mastitis. A GS has been used to assess pain due to the routine husbandry procedure of tail-docking in lambs. There was high reliability between and within the observers, and high accuracy. Restraint of the lambs during the tail-docking caused changes in facial expression, which needs to be taken into account in use of the GS.\n\n"}
{"id": "1606543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1606543", "title": "Historical theology", "text": "Historical theology\n\nHistorical theology as a branch of theology investigates the socio-historical and cultural mechanisms that give rise to theological ideas, statements, and systems. The field focuses on the relationship between theology and its contexts, as well as on the major theological or philosophical influences upon the figures and topics studied. Its methodological foundation and aims are similar to those used by intellectual historians researching historical epistemology, particularly those such as Matthew Daniel Eddy, who investigate the cultural connections between theology and other disciplines that existed in the past.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6148441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6148441", "title": "Illusion of asymmetric insight", "text": "Illusion of asymmetric insight\n\nThe illusion of asymmetric insight is a cognitive bias whereby people perceive their knowledge of others to surpass other people's knowledge of them. This bias \"has been traced to people's tendency to view their own spontaneous or off-the-cuff responses to others' questions as relatively unrevealing even though they view others' similar responses as meaningful\".\n\nA study finds that people seem to believe that they know themselves better than their peers know themselves and that their social group knows and understands other social groups better than other social groups know them. For example: Person A knows Person A better than Person B knows Person B or Person A. This bias may be sustained by a few cognitive beliefs, including:\n\nA group of studies, performed by Pronin, Kruger, Savitsky, & Ross (2001), points to several different manifestations of the illusion of asymmetric insight:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27721700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27721700", "title": "Industrial computed tomography", "text": "Industrial computed tomography\n\nIndustrial computed tomography (CT) scanning is any computer-aided tomographic process, usually X-ray computed tomography, that uses irradiation to produce three-dimensional internal and external representations of a scanned object. Industrial CT scanning has been used in many areas of industry for internal inspection of components. Some of the key uses for industrial CT scanning have been flaw detection, failure analysis, metrology, assembly analysis and reverse engineering applications. Just as in medical imaging, industrial imaging includes both nontomographic radiography (industrial radiography) and computed tomographic radiography (computed tomography).\n\n\"Line beam scanning\" is the traditional process of industrial CT scanning. X-rays are produced and the beam is collimated to create a line. The X-ray line beam is then translated across the part and data is collected by the detector. The data is then reconstructed to create a 3-D volume rendering of the part.\n\nIn \"cone beam scanning\", the part to be scanned is placed on a rotary table. As the part rotates, the cone of X-rays produce a large number of 2D images that are collected by the detector. The 2D images are then processed to create a 3D volume rendering of the external and internal geometries of the part.\n\nIndustrial CT scanning technology was introduced in 1972 with the invention of the CT scanner for medical imaging by Godfrey Hounsfield. The invention earned him a Nobel Prize in medicine, which he shared with Allan McLeod Cormack. Many advances in CT scanning have allowed for its use in the industrial field for metrology in addition to the visual inspection primarily used in the medical field (medical CT scan).\n\nVarious inspection uses and techniques include part-to-CAD comparisons, part-to-part comparisons, assembly and defect analysis, void analysis, wall thickness analysis, and generation of CAD data. The CAD data can be used for reverse engineering, geometric dimensioning and tolerance analysis, and production part approval.\n\nOne of the most recognized forms of analysis using CT is for assembly, or visual analysis. CT scanning provides views inside components in their functioning position, without disassembly. Some software programs for industrial CT scanning allow for measurements to be taken from the CT dataset volume rendering. These measurements are useful for determining the clearances between assembled parts or the dimension of an individual feature.\n\nTraditionally, determining defects, voids and cracks within an object would require destructive testing. CT scanning can detect internal features and flaws displaying this information in 3D without destroying the part. Industrial CT scanning (3D X-ray) is used to detect flaws inside a part such as porosity, an inclusion, or a crack.\n\nMetal casting and moulded plastic components are typically prone to porosity because of cooling processes, transitions between thick and thin walls, and material properties. Void analysis can be used to locate, measure, and analyze voids inside plastic or metal components.\n\nTraditionally, without destructive testing, full metrology has only been performed on the exterior dimensions of components, such as with a coordinate-measuring machine or with a vision system to map exterior surfaces. Internal inspection methods would require using a 2D X-ray of the component or the use of destructive testing. Industrial CT scanning allows for full non-destructive metrology.\n\nImage-based finite element method converts the 3D image data from X-ray computed tomography directly into meshes for finite element analysis. Benefits of this method include modelling complex geometries (e.g. composite materials) or accurately modelling \"as manufactured\" components at the micro-scale.\n\n"}
{"id": "12344195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12344195", "title": "Jewish outreach", "text": "Jewish outreach\n\nJewish outreach is a term sometimes used to translate the Hebrew word kiruv or keruv (literally, \"to draw close\" or \"in-reach\"). Normative Judaism does not actively seek converts, although all denominations do accept those with a sincere commitment. Outreach efforts are instead directed at Jews who have \"gone astray\", or who have been born Jewish in a non-observant family.\n\nThe idea of \"Jewish outreach\" has mixed support among Jews; some are against the concept, while others share a vision of a more accessible and inclusive Jewish community.\n\nIn the United States, a country with a large Secular Jewish population and a 50% intermarriage rate, some Jewish federations and educational organizations provide an extensive range of offerings to the intermarried, to those who are marginally engaged with Jewish life, and to those who haven’t had any involvement in Judaism since attending Hebrew school or right after their bar mitzvah. \"Chabad Lubavitch\" was the first Orthodox Jewish organization in the United States to promote outreach means of recruiting unobservant Jews who commit to living an observant lifestyle. \n\nRabbi Dr. Shmuly Yanklowitz wrote that \"outreach should enrich lives and society by making the Torah’s wisdom more broadly available. Further, outreach is not only about “one’s own” and we must bring people of different religions together in mutual understanding and respect by engaging in deep interfaith dialogue.\n\nRabbi Levi Brackman said, \"with the high rate of assimilation and intermarriage in the West, I cannot imagine that there could be too many outreach workers in the field. The day that happens will be a blessed one. The battle against assimilation is far too important for its warriors to get embroiled in politics of this sort. Undoubtedly, all the outreach organizations, Chabad included, should put their differences aside and pool together all their resources and ideas to create an even brighter Jewish tomorrow.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1119797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1119797", "title": "Jewish quota", "text": "Jewish quota\n\nA Jewish quota was a racial quota limiting the number of Jews in various establishments to a certain percentage. In particular, in the 19th and 20th centuries, some countries had Jewish quotas in higher education.\n\nJewish educational quotas could be statewide law or adopted only in certain institutions, often unofficially. The limitation took the form of total prohibition of Jewish students, or of limiting the number of Jewish students so that their share in the students' population would not be larger than their share in the general population. In some establishments, the Jewish quota placed a limit on growth rather than set a fixed level of participation to be achieved.\n\nJews who wanted an education used various ways to overcome this discrimination: bribing the authorities, changing their religion, or traveling to countries without such limitations. In Hungary, for example, 5,000 Jewish youngsters (including Edward Teller) left the country after the introduction of \"numerus clausus\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35049383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35049383", "title": "Keeping All Students Safe Act", "text": "Keeping All Students Safe Act\n\nThe Keeping All Students Safe Act refers to a pair of American legislative proposals introduced in the United States House of Representatives on April 6, 2011 as H.R. 1381 and in the Senate on December 16, 2011 as S.2020. The bills are designed to protect children from the abuse of restraint and seclusion in school. The first Congressional bill was introduced in the United States House of Representatives on December 9, 2007 and named the Preventing Harmful Restraint and Seclusion in Schools Act. The primary sponsors of the two bills are Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA), Chair of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, Congressman George Miller (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, and Congressman Gregg Harper (R-MS).\n\nRestraint involves immobilizing an individual and preventing him or her from moving his or her arms, legs, body, or head freely. Seclusion involves the involuntary confinement of an individual in a room or area from which the individual is physically prevented from leaving, whether the room is locked or the door is blocked by furniture.\n\nIn 2009, the United States Government Accountability Office (GAO) undertook a nationwide study of the use of restraint and seclusion in schools and its effects. The GAO found \"hundreds of cases of alleged abuse and death related to the use of these methods on schoolchildren during the past two decades.\" Most of the incidents involved children with disabilities who are enrolled in special education, the GAO reported.\n\nThe GAO documented 20 deaths of children from restraint. The GAO also reported about restraints that resulted in broken arms, and kindergartners who were tied to chairs with duct tape and who suffered bloody noses. One teenager hanged himself in a seclusion room, while a teacher sat outside the room. Before the final episode, he was confined 19 times in a concrete 8 foot by 8 foot room for an average of 94 minutes each time. His parents were never informed. The GAO found that a New York child was placed alone in a seclusion room 75 times in 6 months for whistling and slouching. The National Disability Rights Network and the Council of Parents Attorneys and Advocates also documented the nationwide use of restraint and seclusion in 2009. NDRN documented the use of restraint and seclusion in 2/3 of states in 2009.\n\nOn May 19, 2009, the House Education and Labor Committee held hearings about the use of restraint and seclusion, chaired by Congressman George Miller.\n\nOne witness testified that her 14-year-old son was killed when restrained by his 230-pound teacher, who smothered him by lying on top of him in a restraint during a disagreement about lunch. Another witness testified that her 7-year-old daughter was bruised when she was restrained face down for playing with her tooth, but the parent was never informed by the school. She also testified that her child was later restrained again, and received a severe abrasion, but she was not informed of the restraint. She testified that other children were denied access to food, water, and the bathroom while isolated in seclusion confinement rooms.\n\nThe GAO presented testimony about its report and findings about restraint and seclusion, and the risk of death and injury. The GAO also reported that restraint and seclusion have been used to control minor student misbehaviors such as speaking out of turn or refusing to remain in one’s chair. Another hearing witness testified that restraint may be needed in emergencies. He noted that sometimes educators need to use restraint in emergency situations, where there is a risk that a child will injure himself or others and nothing else will work to prevent the immediate danger. Teachers may use restraint and seclusion appropriately in those circumstances, the witness testified. An Illinois State Board of Education representative presented data from Illinois showing that implementing school-wide positive behavioral supports reduced the use of restraint and seclusion significantly.\n\nThe United States House of Representatives reported that children, most often children with disabilities, are subjected to seclusion and restraint at much higher rates than adults, and are at greater risk of injury as a result of these practices. The House further reported that children under the age of 12 are restrained or secluded at higher rates than any other age group. The House of Representatives also reported that, “the use of restraint and seclusion often exacerbates the behaviors that staff are trying to eliminate.”\n\nBecause there is no federal law, state restraint and seclusion laws control. A 2012 report by Jessica Butler for the Autism National Committee summarized state seclusion and restraint laws and policies. It reported that only 14 states limited the use of restraint to emergencies involving threats of physical injury. Only 11 either banned all forms of seclusion or restricted it to emergency threats of physical harm. There are 27 states that have no requirement to notify parents when a child is restrained or secluded and only 12 states that require same day or next day notification.\n\nAs there is no national clearinghouse that gathers data on the use of the techniques, the exact number of children subjected to restraint and seclusion in school is unknown. The GAO found that only five states kept records. In two of them, Texas and California, there were over 33,000 cases in 2007-08. Many of the children had cognitive disabilities, autism, mental health disabilities, attention deficit disorder and other disabilities. Professor Reece Peterson testified at the House Education and Labor hearing about the need for federal law requiring data collection nationwide.\n\nOn December 9, 2009, six months after the House hearing, the first national restraint and seclusion bill was introduced by Congressman George Miller. It was cosponsored by Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers. A companion bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator Chris Dodd.\n\nThe 2009 House bill was numbered H.R. 4247 and entitled “Preventing Harmful Restraint and Seclusion in Schools Act.” The Senate bill was numbered S. 2860 and had the same title.\n\nOn March 3, 2010, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4247 (now renamed the Keeping All Students Safe Act). The vote was 262-153, with 238 Democrats and 24 Republicans voting in favor. The bill did not pass the Senate. A revised Senate bill, S.3895, was introduced on September 29, 2010, and cosponsored by Senator Dodd and Senator Burr. It did not pass the Senate. Because passage by both houses of Congress is required for the President to consider a bill in America, both bills died at the end of the 111th Congress in December 2010.\n\nRestraint and seclusion bills were introduced again in the 112th Congress in 2011. On April 6, 2011, Congressman George Miller (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, reintroduced the Keeping All Students Safe Act, cosponsored by Congressman Greg Harper (R-MS). On December 16, 2011, the second anniversary of Congressman Miller’s first bill, Senator Tom Harkin, Chairman of the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions Committee, introduced a slightly different version of the Keeping All Students Safe Act, S. 2020.\n\nThis section of the article focuses on the two newest bills introduced in the 112th Congress in 2011. The House and Senate versions of the Keeping All Students Safe Act differ.\n\nThe House bill prohibits physical restraint except in emergencies when there is an imminent threat of physical injury and less restrictive measures will not resolve the situation. The Senate bill bars physical restraint unless there is an immediate threat of serious bodily injury and less restrictive measures will not solve the situation. Both bills would forbid the use of restraint or seclusion for destruction of property, educational disruption, failing to follow instructions, and for coercion, discipline, or in place of proper educational planning. \nThe House bill also forbids seclusion unless there is an immediate threat of physical injury and less restrictive methods will not resolve the situation. The House bill will require staff to continuously visually monitor (watch) children who are confined to seclusion rooms to ensure that they are safe. The Senate bill bans all seclusion of children, which is defined as locking children in rooms or other spaces or blocking the door so they cannot leave (e.g., with furniture).\n\nBoth bills require restraint to end when the emergency ends, and the House bill requires seclusion to end when the emergency ends. Both bills ban the use of mechanical restraints, meaning devices that lock and restrain children, or taping or tying them to chairs or furniture. Both bills ban chemical restraints and restraints that impair breathing or otherwise threaten life.\n\nBoth bills require schools to notify parents in writing within 24 hours of restraint and verbally the same day. There are 27 states that do not have legal requirements for schools to tell parents a child was restrained/secluded.\n\nBoth bills impose training requirements to ensure that staff who use restraint and seclusion are trained in evidence-based techniques and that the techniques are not misused in even more dangerous manners. Both bills prohibit putting physical restraint as a planned intervention in Individual Education Programs, 504 plans, behavioral intervention plans, student safety plans, or other educational planning documents for individual students. The bills also require the collection of data nationwide and disaggregating the data by such categories as race, sex, income, and disability status.\n\nThe Senate bill also bans restraints that interfere with the ability to communicate. The GAO reported on at least four cases in which verbal children who died or were injured in restraint told staff that they could not breathe. Numerous children cannot speak or have difficulty doing so, and rely on sign language or augmentative communications devices. Additionally, the Senate bill requires that a debriefing be held, where school staff, the parents, and the student may attend. Debriefings are intended to reduce and eliminate restraint and seclusion, by determining what caused the event and how to avoid it in the future, and by analyzing, planning for, and implementing positive interventions.\n\nWhen Congressman Miller re-introduced the House bill in 2011, he described his reasons for doing so, “In 2009, the Government Accountability Office told our committee of the shocking wave of abuse by untrained school staff who were misusing emergency interventions. Most of these victims were children with disabilities. Some were 3 and 4 years old. In some cases, children died. Restraint and seclusion should be used only as a last resort and by trained professionals, but the GAO found that was not the case. . . . A media report out yesterday highlights that these horrific abuses continued through this past year. In Chicago, a 4-year-old boy’s wrists were taped together with painter’s tape and then duct tape because he refused to take a nap and he didn’t wash his hands.”\n\nSenator Harkin introduced his bill and explained the reasons for doing so. He said, “I am pleased to introduce today the Keeping All Students Safe Act. This important legislation will protect school children against ineffective harmful and life threatening seclusion and restraint practices. . . . Restraint and seclusion-related fatalities and injuries most often involve children with disabilities. This vulnerable population must especially be protected from this type of abuse, and this legislation seeks to do just that. . . .The act does allow for the use of restraint in emergency situations to prevent serious bodily injury to the student, other students in the classroom, or staff, it also requires State-approved crisis intervention training program as to how to approach these types of emergency situations.”\n\nSenator Harkin also addressed data issues, “Another issue uncovered by the GAO study was that no web site, Federal agency, or other entity currently collects comprehensive data related to the use of restraint and seclusion in our Nation's schools. This Act will remedy this situation, as it requires each State educational agency to prepare and submit a report documenting” the use of restraint and seclusion.”\n\nIn March 2012, the Office of Civil Rights of the United States Department of Education presented a report about its Civil Rights Data Collection. It reported that students with disabilities made up represent 12% of students in its data collection sample, but nearly 70% of the students who are physically restrained by adults in school. For those schools which reported data, there was a total of 38, 792 incidents of physical restraint. CRDC also found racial and ethnic disproportionality in restraint and seclusion use. African-American students were 21% of students with disabilities under served under the IDEA, but 44% of students with disabilities subjected to mechanical restraint. Hispanic children were disproportionately subjected to seclusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "632782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=632782", "title": "Lament", "text": "Lament\n\nA lament or lamentation is a passionate expression of grief, often in music, poetry, or song form. The grief is most often born of regret, or mourning. Laments can also be expressed in a verbal manner, where the participant would lament about something they regret or someone they've lost, usually accompanied by wailing, moaning and/or crying. Laments constitute some of the oldest forms of writing and examples are present across human cultures. \n\nMany of the oldest and most lasting poems in human history have been laments. The Lament for Sumer and Ur dates back at least 4000 years to ancient Sumer, the world's first urban civilization. Laments are present in both the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\", and laments continued to be sung in elegiacs accompanied by the aulos in classical and Hellenistic Greece. Elements of laments appear in \"Beowulf\", in the Hindu Vedas, and in ancient Near Eastern religious texts. They are included in the Mesopotamian city laments such as the Lament for Ur and the Jewish Tanakh, (which would later become the Christian Old Testament).\n\nIn many oral traditions, both early and modern, the lament has been a genre usually performed by women: Batya Weinbaum made a case for the spontaneous lament of women chanters in the creation of the oral tradition that resulted in the \"Iliad\" The material of lament, the \"sound of trauma\" is as much an element in the Book of Job as in the genre of pastoral elegy, such as Shelley's \"Adonais\" or Matthew Arnold's \"Thyrsis\".\n\nThe Book of Lamentations or \"Lamentations of Jeremiah\" figures in the Old Testament. The \"Lamentation of Christ\" (under many closely variant terms) is a common subject from the \"Life of Christ\" in art, showing his dead body being mourned after the Crucifixion.\n\nA Lament in The Book of Lamentations or in the Psalms (in the particular Lament/Complaint Psalms of the Tanakh, may be looked at as \"a cry of need in a context of crisis when Israel lacks the resources to fend for itself.\" Another way of looking at it is all the more basic: laments simply being \"appeals for divine help in distress\". These laments, too, often have a set format: an address to God, description of the suffering/anguish which one seeks relief, a petition for help and deliverance, a curse towards one's enemies, an expression of the belief of ones innocence or a confession of the lack thereof, a vow corresponding to an expected divine response, and lastly, a song of thanksgiving. Examples of a general format of this, both in the individual and communal laments, can be seen in Psalm 3 and Psalm 44 respectively.\n\nThe \"Lament of Edward II\", if it is actually written by Edward II of England, is the sole surviving composition of his.\n\nA heroine's lament is a conventional fixture of baroque opera seria, accompanied usually by strings alone, in descending tetrachords. Because of their plangent cantabile melodic lines, evocatively free, non-strophic construction and adagio pace, operatic laments have remained vividly memorable soprano or mezzo-soprano arias even when separated from the emotional pathos of their operatic contexts. An early example is Ariadne's \"Lasciatemi morire\", which is the only survivor of Claudio Monteverdi's lost \"Arianna\". Francesco Cavalli's operas extended the \"lamento\" formula, in numerous exemplars, of which Ciro's \"Negatemi respiri\" from \"Ciro\" is notable.\n\nOther examples include Dido's lament, \"When I am laid\" (Henry Purcell, \"Dido and Aeneas\"), \"Lascia ch'io pianga\" (Georg Friedrich Handel, \"Rinaldo\"), \"Caro mio ben\" (Tomasso or Giuseppe Giordani). The lament continued to represent a musico-dramatic high point. In the context of opera buffa, the Countess's lament, \"Dove sono\" comes as a surprise to the audience of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's \"Marriage of Figaro\", and in Gioachino Rossini's \"Barber of Seville\", Rosina's plaintive words at her apparent abandonment are followed, not by the expected lament aria, but by a vivid orchestral interlude of storm music. The heroine's lament remained a fixture in romantic opera, and the Marschallin's monologue in Act I of \"Der Rosenkavalier\" can be understood as a penetrating psychological lament.\n\nThe purely instrumental lament is a common form in pìobaireachd music for the Scottish bagpipes. \"MacCrimmon's Lament\" dates to the Jacobite uprising of 1745. The tune is held to have been written by Donald Ban MacCrimmon, piper to the MacLeods of Dunvegan, who supported the Hanoverians. It is said that Donald Ban, who was killed at Moy in 1746, had an intimation that he would not return.\n\nA well-known Gaelic lullaby is \"Griogal Cridhe\" (\"Beloved Gregor\"). It was composed in 1570 after the execution of Gregor MacGregor by the Campbells. The grief-stricken widow, Marion Campbell, describes what happened as she sings to her child.\n\n\"Cumhadh na Cloinne\" (Lament for the Children) was composed by Padruig Mór MacCrimmon in the early 1650s. It is generally held to be based on the loss of seven of MacCrimmon's eight sons to an unknown illness, possibly brought to Skye by a trading vessel. Author Bridget MacKenzie, in \"Piping Traditions of Argyll\", suggests that it refers to the slaughter of the MacLeod's fighting Cromwell's forces at the Battle of Worcester. It may have been inspired by both.\n\nOther Scottish laments include \"Lowlands Away\", \"MacPherson's Rant\", and \"Hector the Hero\".\n\nThere is a short, free musical form appearing in the Baroque and then again in the Romantic periods, called a lament. It is typically a set of harmonic variations in homophonic texture, wherein the bass descends through a tetrachord, usually one suggesting a minor mode.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14145737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14145737", "title": "Lavinia Dock", "text": "Lavinia Dock\n\nLavinia Lloyd Dock (February 26, 1858 – April 17, 1956) was a nurse, feminist, author, pioneer in nursing education and social activist. Dock was an assistant superintendent at Johns Hopkins School of Nursing under Isabel Hampton Robb. With Robb and Mary Adelaide Nutting, she helped to found the organization that would become the National League for Nursing. Dock was a contributing editor to the \"American Journal of Nursing\" and she authored several books, including (with M. Adelaide Nutting as co-author) a four-volume history of nursing and what was for many years a standard nurse's manual of drugs. She campaigned for women's rights for many years.\n\nLavinia Dock was born one of six children in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania on February 26, 1858. She received nursing training at the Bellevue Hospital School of Nursing, graduating in 1886. By 1888, Dock was working with Jane Delano at a Florida hospital during a yellow fever outbreak. Delano was a young nurse who later founded the American Red Cross Nursing Service. Dock wrote and published (with help from her father and brother) a book on therapeutic medicines in 1890.\n\nDock went to Johns Hopkins School of Nursing in 1890, where she was assistant superintendent of the school under Isabel Hampton Robb. In 1893, Dock, with the assistance of Robb and Mary Adelaide Nutting, founded the American Society of superintendents of Training Schools for Nurses of the United States and Canada, which became the National League for Nursing.\n\nAfter her retirement from nursing, her activities included membership in the National Woman's Party, led by Alice Paul. Dock campaigned for woman suffrage by leading several protests, including pickets at the White House; she was arrested after militant demonstrations in June 1917, August 1917 and August 1918. She participated in protest movements for women's rights that resulted in the 1920 passage of the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which granted women the right to vote. In addition, she campaigned for legislation to allow nurses rather than physicians to control their profession.\n\nDock died on April 17, 1956, after suffering a broken hip in a fall.\n\nThe American Association for the History of Nursing has named an award in honor of Dock. The Lavinia L. Dock Award for Exemplary Historical Research and Writing recognizes outstanding writing and research in a book by an experienced scholar of nursing history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1375891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1375891", "title": "Missionary kid", "text": "Missionary kid\n\nMissionary kids (or MKs) are the children of missionary parents, and thus born and/or raised abroad (that is, on the \"mission-field\"). They form a subset of third culture kids (TCKs). The term is more specifically applied when these children return to their \"home\" or passport country (the country of their citizenship), and often experience various difficulties identifying with fellow citizens and integrating \"back\" into their \"home\" culture. The resulting feeling is described as \"reverse culture shock\".\n\nThere is some confusion between the terms MK and TCK. According to the definition developed by Ruth Hill Useem, TCKs are people who have spent a significant part of their developmental years outside their parents' culture. TCK is a broad term that encompasses all children who have grown up abroad (i.e. military kids, diplomats' kids, immigrants). Missionary kids are just one of the many categories of kids who qualify as TCKs. Therefore, while all MKs are TCKs, not all TCKs are MKs.\n\nIn the past MKs usually were thought of only as American or European, but there is a growing number of MKs from other countries, especially Protestant Christian MKs from South Korea and from Latin America. Generally, this term applies to Protestant Christians;; however, it can be applied to any denomination of a religion.\n\nWhile MKs often identify more with the culture or country where they were raised (and this could be multiple cities, countries, or continents) than with where their parents were raised, they are not fully at home in any one culture. David C. Pollock and Van Reken attribute this feeling of displacement, or rootlessness, to a lack of emotional connection to their home culture (where they \"should\" feel connected). Many MKs find it difficult to answer questions about where they are from or where home is as they may feel more of an emotional connection to their host culture than to their \"home\" culture. However, at the same time many MKs are completely aware that they can never fully fit into their host culture. This is especially obvious to MKs growing up in countries where they look different from the local population. Pollock and Van Reken developed the PolVan Cultural Identity Model to explain cultural identity in relationship to the surrounding culture. The Model names four categories into which a person can fall based on how they look and think compared to the culture around them:\n\nWhen MKs first transition to their new or \"host\" culture, they are in the foreigner category. As they continue the transition and begin to acclimate and feel at home in their host culture, MKs move into the adopted category, often to the point where MKs feel more at home in the host culture than in their passport culture. At this point, the host culture becomes the MK's home culture. Upon returning to their passport culture, MKs often find themselves in the hidden immigrant category. Because they look like their peers, their extended family remembers how they were prior to their international move and expect them to hold similar views and to act as a typical citizen of that passport country would act. However, as hidden immigrants, MKs look like their family and friends, but more often than not hold many differing views and opinions. Additionally, MKs may not be aware of many of the pop culture influences within their passport country, yet are aware of world and regional issues, which most citizens of their passport country are unaware of. This cultural disconnect can cause awkwardness when they return to their passport country.\n\nChildren in the MKs' passport countries often find it difficult to relate to missionary children, and vice versa. While MKs may find the lives of their peers in their passport countries to be boring, sometimes creating challenging social situations, passport country kids may be intimidated by MKs' experience abroad. Cultural miscommunications are common and interesting. While MKs often find it difficult to relate to people from their home culture or target culture, they get along with other MKs very well, even those who are missionaries to (or from) a completely different country. It is the commonality of differences that draws MKs together.\n\nMKs tend to be open-minded and tolerant of many diverse cultures. They often feel more at home in culturally rich environments and can be \"homesick\" for their foreign home. Their knowledge of a country and its culture typically exceeds language fluency. Upon returning to their passport country, MKs possess unique skills that can be helpful to academics and governments. Because of their international experience, they often have a much broader worldview than their peers. This broader worldview can also lead to mixed emotions about their passport country and its foreign policies.\n\nChildren who immigrate to the United States have similar experience to MKs when it comes to learning a new culture and making cross-cultural transitions. But according to Pollack and Van Reken, what truly distinguishes MKs from children who immigrate to the United States or other countries is \"the full expectation that after living for a significant period of their developmental years outside their passport culture, there will come the day when TCKs make a permanent return to that country and culture.\" MKs return to their passport country for many reasons, including the beginning of their college education, a shift in their parents' career, and even evacuation in more extreme cases. Extended family and friends's excitement at MKs' return does not usually carry over to the MK. The events surrounding an MK's return may be traumatic (such as in the event of an evacuation due to political unrest), but even under normal circumstances MKs' return to their country of citizenship is a cause of stress and grief. Anxiety and depressions are the two emotions most commonly associated with cross-cultural transitions, caused by a sense of vulnerability and loss of control.\n\nTo help MKs cope with the transition back to the United States, many colleges, particularly Christian colleges, have chapters of a student organization called \"Mu Kappa International\". Mu Kappa aims to help MKs and other TCKs with the transition to American culture and college life. Mu Kappa was founded in 1985 at Taylor University, and has since spread to more than forty other American colleges and universities.\n\nAnother frequently used method of helping MKs cope with transitioning from their foreign home to their passport culture is through transition seminars. These seminars typically take place during the summer before an MK's freshman year of college and teach MKs the basics of everyday life in America, including putting gas in a car, opening a bank account, grocery shopping, and many other every day tasks. Additionally, these seminar can help MKs understand how to deal with the grief of permanently transitioning back to their passport country in a healthy way, and how to manage the stress of a new environment and reverse culture shock.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36087359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36087359", "title": "National Pawnbrokers Association", "text": "National Pawnbrokers Association\n\nThe National Pawnbrokers Association (NPA) is a USA-based trade association headquartered in Southlake, Texas. The NPA was founded in 1987 to help the growing number of pawnbrokers in the United States. Today, there are more than 1500 members in the National Pawnbrokers Association. \n\nAs a trade association, the NPA is the pawning industry's only national association, offering guidance and support to pawnbrokers on how to be involved on a local, statewide and national basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "6770962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6770962", "title": "Nico Roozen", "text": "Nico Roozen\n\nNicolaas Josephus Maria \"Nico\" Roozen (born 22 April 1953, Heemskerk) is a Dutch economist who, in collaboration with Frans van der Hoff and ecumenical development agency Solidaridad, launched Max Havelaar, the first Fairtrade certification initiative in 1988. Roozen played a key role in convincing several major Dutch retailers to offer Fairtrade goods, which later led to the commercial success of Fairtrade certification. On October 25, 2007, Nico Roozen was invested as a Officer of the Order of Orange Nassau for his years of dedication to Fairtrade.\n\nIn 1996, Roozen launched AgroFair, the first Fairtrade fruit company in Europe.\n\nNico Roozen is today Executive Director of the development agency Solidaridad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23674107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23674107", "title": "Offences Against the Person Act 1875", "text": "Offences Against the Person Act 1875\n\nThe Offences against the Person Act 1875 (38 & 39 Vict. c. 94) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland (as it then was). Its purpose was to extend the scope of sexual offences against children.\n\nThis section repealed sections 50 and 51 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 with savings.\n\nThis section replaced section 50 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 (which created a felony in relation only to girls under 10).\n\nWhen the Act was repealed, it was in turn replaced by section 4 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885 (increasing the age to 13).\n\nThis section replaced section 51 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 (which created a misdemeanour in relation to girls between 10 and 12).\n\nWhen the Act was repealed, it was turn replaced by section 5(1) of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885 (changing the age range to 13 to 16).\n\nThis section provided that the Act was to be construed as though it and the Offences against the Person Act 1861 (as amended by this Act) were one Act. Its effect was that the definition of carnal knowledge provided by section 63 of that Act applied to the offences created by sections 3 and 4 of this Act.\n\nThis section provided that the Act did not extend to Scotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "5007538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5007538", "title": "Paraboloidal coordinates", "text": "Paraboloidal coordinates\n\nParaboloidal coordinates are a three-dimensional orthogonal coordinate system formula_1 that generalizes the two-dimensional parabolic coordinate system. Similar to the related ellipsoidal coordinates, the paraboloidal coordinate system has orthogonal quadratic coordinate surfaces that are \"not\" produced by rotating or projecting any two-dimensional orthogonal coordinate system.\n\nThe Cartesian coordinates formula_2 can be produced from the ellipsoidal coordinates \nformula_3 by the equations\n\nwhere the following limits apply to the coordinates\n\nConsequently, surfaces of constant formula_8 are elliptic paraboloids\n\nand surfaces of constant formula_10 are likewise\n\nwhereas surfaces of constant formula_12 are hyperbolic paraboloids\n\nThe scale factors for the paraboloidal coordinates formula_14 are\n\nHence, the infinitesimal volume element equals\n\nDifferential operators such as formula_19 \nand formula_20 can be expressed in the coordinates formula_1 by substituting the scale factors into the general formulae found in orthogonal coordinates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27500812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27500812", "title": "Perceptual system", "text": "Perceptual system\n\nA perceptual system is a computational system (biological or artificial) designed to make inferences about properties of a physical environment based on scenes. Other definitions may exist.\n\nIn this context, a scene is defined as information that can flow from a physical rectums into a computational system via sensory transduction. A sensory organ (biological or artificial) is used to capture this information. Therefore, any perceptual system must incorporate input from at least one sensory organ.\n\nExamples of perceptual systems include:\n\nResearch in the field of perceptual systems focuses on computational aspects of perception. For this reason, there is significant overlap with neuroscience, sensor design, natural scene statistics, and computer science.\n\n"}
{"id": "20492361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20492361", "title": "Philosophy of self", "text": "Philosophy of self\n\nThe philosophy of self defines, among other things, the conditions of identity that make one subject of experience distinct from all others. Contemporary discussions on the nature of the self are not thereby discussions on the nature of personhood, or personal identity. The self is sometimes understood as a unified being essentially connected to consciousness, awareness, and agency (or, at least, with the faculty of rational choice). Various theories on the metaphysical nature of the self have been proposed. Among them, the metaphysical nature of the self has been proposed to be that of an immaterial substance.\n\nMost philosophical definitions of self—per Descartes, Locke, Hume, and William James—are expressed in the first person. A third person definition does not refer to specific mental qualia but instead strives for objectivity and operationalism.\n\nTo another person, the self of one individual is exhibited in the conduct and discourse of that individual. Therefore, the intentions of another individual can only be inferred from something that emanates from that individual. The particular characteristics of the self determine its identity.\n\nIn spirituality, and especially nondual, mystical and eastern meditative traditions, the human being is often conceived as being in the illusion of individual existence, and separateness from other aspects of creation. This \"sense of doership\" or sense of individual existence is that part which believes it is the human being, and believes it must fight for itself in the world, is ultimately unaware and unconscious of its own true nature. The ego is often associated with mind and the sense of time, which compulsively thinks in order to be assured of its future existence, rather than simply knowing its own self and the present.\n\nThe spiritual goal of many traditions involves the dissolving of the ego, allowing self-knowledge of one's own true nature to become experienced and enacted in the world. This is variously known as enlightenment, nirvana, presence, and the \"here and now\".\n\nBoth western and oriental civilizations have been occupied with self-knowledge and underscored its importance particularly citing the paradoxical combination of immediate availability and profound obscurity involved in its pursuit. For Socrates, the goal of philosophy was to \"Know thyself\". Lao Tzu, in his \"Tao Te Ching\", says \"Knowing others is wisdom. Knowing the self is enlightenment. Mastering others requires force. Mastering the self requires strength.\" The case is the same for the seers of Upanishads, who maintained that the ultimate real knowledge involves an understanding of the essence of the self and the nature of God. Adi Shankaracharya, in his commentary on Bhagavad Gita says \"Self-knowledge alone eradicates misery\". \"Self-knowledge alone is the means to the highest bliss.\".\" Absolute perfection is the consummation of Self-knowledge.\"\n\nA theory about self-knowledge describes the concept as the capacity to detect that the sensations, thoughts, mental states, and attitudes as one's own. It is linked to other concepts such as self-awareness and self-conception. The rationalist theory, which Immanuel Kant has inspired, also claims that our ability to achieve self-knowledge through rational reflection is partly derived from the fact that we view ourselves as rational agents. This school rejects that self-knowledge is merely derived from observation as it acknowledges the subject as authoritative on account of his ability as an agent to shape his own states.\n\nAristotle, following Plato, defined the soul as the core essence of a living being, but argued against its having a separate existence. For instance, if a knife had a soul, the act of cutting would be that soul, because 'cutting' is the essence of what it is to be a knife. Unlike Plato and the religious traditions, Aristotle did not consider the soul as some kind of separate, ghostly occupant of the body (just as we cannot separate the activity of cutting from the knife). As the soul, in Aristotle's view, is an activity of the body, it cannot be immortal (when a knife is destroyed, the cutting stops). More precisely, the soul is the \"first activity\" of a living body. This is a state, or a potential for actual, or 'second', activity. \"The axe has an edge for cutting\" was, for Aristotle, analogous to \"humans have bodies for rational activity,\" and the potential for rational activity thus constituted the essence of a human soul. Aristotle used his concept of the soul in many of his works; the \"De Anima\" (On the Soul) provides a good place to start to gain more understanding of his views.\n\nAristotle also believed that there were four sections of the soul: the calculative and scientific parts on the rational side used for making decisions, and the desiderative and vegetative parts on the irrational side responsible for identifying our needs.\n\nWhile he was imprisoned in a castle, Avicenna wrote his famous \"Floating Man\" thought experiment to demonstrate human self-awareness and the substantiality of the soul. His \"Floating Man\" thought experiment tells its readers to imagine themselves suspended in the air, isolated from all sensations, which includes no sensory contact with even their own bodies. He argues that, in this scenario, one would still have self-consciousness. He thus concludes that the idea of the self is not logically dependent on any physical thing, and that the soul should not be seen in relative terms, but as a primary given, a substance. This argument was later refined and simplified by René Descartes in epistemic terms when he stated: \"I can abstract from the supposition of all external things, but not from the supposition of my own consciousness.\"\n\nDavid Hume pointed out that we tend to think that we are the same person we were five years ago. Though we have changed in many respects, the same person appears present as was present then. We might start thinking about which features can be changed without changing the underlying self. Hume, however, denies that there is a distinction between the various features of a person and the mysterious self that supposedly bears those features. When we start introspecting, \"we are never intimately conscious of anything but a particular perception; man is a bundle or collection of different perceptions which succeed one another with an inconceivable rapidity and are in perpetual flux and movement\".\n\nIt is plain, that in the course of our thinking, and in the constant revolution of our ideas, our imagination runs easily from one idea to any other that resembles it, and that this quality alone is to the fancy a sufficient bond and association. It is likewise evident that as the senses, in changing their objects, are necessitated to change them regularly, and take them as they lie contiguous to each other, the imagination must by long custom acquire the same method of thinking, and run along the parts of space and time in conceiving its objects.\"\n\nOn Hume's view, these perceptions do not belong to anything. Rather, Hume compares the soul to a commonwealth, which retains its identity not by virtue of some enduring core substance, but by being composed of many different, related, and yet constantly changing elements. The question of personal identity then becomes a matter of characterizing the loose cohesion of one's personal experience. (Note that in the Appendix to the \"Treatise\", Hume said mysteriously that he was dissatisfied with his account of the self, yet he never returned to the issue.) Hume’s position is very similar to Indian Buddhists’ conception of the self.\n\nThe paradox of the Ship of Theseus can be used as an analogy of the self as a bundle of parts in flux.\n\nDaniel Dennett has a deflationary theory of the \"self\". Selves are not physically detectable. Instead, they are a kind of convenient fiction, like a center of gravity, which is convenient as a way of solving physics problems, although they need not correspond to anything tangible — the center of gravity of a hoop is a point in thin air. People constantly tell themselves stories to make sense of their world, and they feature in the stories as a character, and that convenient but fictional character is the self.\n\nThe Buddha in particular attacked all attempts to conceive of a fixed self, while stating that holding the view \"I have no self\" is also mistaken. This is an example of the middle way charted by the Buddha and the Madhyamaka school of Buddhism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32518425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32518425", "title": "Propulsive fluid accumulator", "text": "Propulsive fluid accumulator\n\nA Propulsive Fluid Accumulator is an artificial Earth satellite which collects and stores oxygen and other atmospheric gases for in-situ refuelling of high-thrust rockets. This eliminates the need to lift oxidizer to orbit and therefore brings significant cost benefits. A major portion of the total world payload sent into low earth orbit each year is either liquid oxygen or water.\n\nIn the period 1956 to 1963, S.T. Demetriades proposed methods of atmospheric gas accumulation by means of a satellite moving in low Earth orbit, at an altitude of around 120 km, or propellant accumulation by stations on the surface of a planet or by gathering and exploiting interstellar matter . In its simplest form, Demetriades' proposed satellite extracts air from the fringes of the atmosphere, compresses and cools it, and extracts liquid oxygen. The remaining nitrogen is, in part, used as propellant for a nuclear-powered magnetohydrodynamic electromagnetic plasma thruster, which maintains the orbit at about 120 km, or a solar powered thruster (and collection system) for altitudes above 150 km (as stated in the original 1959 JBIS article, p119) compensating for atmospheric drag. This system was called “PROFAC” (PROpulsive Fluid ACcumulator). \nThere are, however, safety concerns with placing a nuclear reactor in low Earth orbit.\n\nDemetriades' proposal was further refined by Christopher Jones and others in 2010. In this proposal, multiple collection vehicles accumulate propellant gases at around 120 km altitude, later transferring them to a higher orbit. However, Jones' proposal does require a network of orbital power-beaming satellites, to avoid placing nuclear reactors in orbit.\n\nKlinkman and Wilkes proposed, at the AIAA Space 2007 and Space 2009 conferences, that gases could be harvested at the very edge of the earth's atmosphere by a high vacuum pump. An ion propulsion engine would consume a portion of the harvested gases and would restore the spacecraft's orbital momentum. Klinkman's proposal has a fairly low energy threshold for a small-scale harvesting operation, and air friction is far more forgiving at 200 km than at 100 km.\n\nNote that S. T. Demetriades pioneered in space propulsion, from the atomic oxygen ramjet (he proved it not feasible in the 1950s) to nuclear, ion, and plasma thrusters. He received the 2010 AIAA Award for Plasmadynamics and Lasers.\n\nBoeing has suggested a non-extractive propellant depot, or \"space gas station,\" which accumulates material launched from the planet at low cost, allowing future lunar missions without the need for large launch vehicles like the Saturn V. MIT has recently proposed a similar plan which would store emergency fuel reserves left over from lunar missions.\n\n"}
{"id": "28088506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28088506", "title": "Protection International", "text": "Protection International\n\nProtection International (PI) is an international non-profit organisation dedicated to the protection of human rights defenders (HRDs). Its stated mission is to enhance the security and the protection of \"threatened civil society actors with non-violent means, especially those who fight for their legitimate rights and for the rights of others as they are guaranteed by the international humanitarian law and the human rights conventions\".\n\nProtection International began its activities in 1998 as the former European Office of Peace Brigades International (PBI-BEO) and is headquartered in Brussels. Working on the principle that \"human rights defenders are one of the main actors fighting against impunity in the name of justice\", PI runs field projects in several countries (the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda, Nepal, Thailand, Colombia, Guatemala, Honduras) and conflict-stricken zones such as the East and Horn of Africa in collaboration with local partner organisations.\n\nIt provides human rights defenders (i.e. trade unionists, journalists, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals defenders, members of anti-corruption organizations, etc.) with training, knowledge and tools, such as the Protection Manual for Human Rights Defenders \", to develop protection measures into their work and enable them \"to defend all human rights\". Protection International also aims at mobilising the national and international community (parliaments, governments, the United Nations, the media and public opinion).\n\nProtection International is the former European Union office of Peace Brigades International (PBI-BEO). In October 2007, PBI-BEO officially became Protection International, after a separation with the PBI organisation carried out by common consent. Nevertheless, current activities run by Protection International are the logical result of defenders protection initiatives which began more than a decade ago.\n\nIn 1998, it organised a hearing in the Plenary of the European Parliament where human rights defenders from Colombia and Guatemala witnessed. Since then, PI supports the development and implementation of \"new tactics and tools for the protection of HRDs by improving their own security strategies, thus also enabling them to improve their protection of others\"(victim groups, witnesses, Internally Displaced People communities, women's HRD's, LGBTI, among others).\n\nFrom 1999 to 2002, PI organised public seminars on International Observation Strategies for INGOs and other stakeholders throughout Europe. At the same time, training activities on security and protection of HRD's were held in more than twenty countries (among others, Mexico, Guatemala, Colombia, Brazil, Peru, Honduras, Bolivia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda, Kenya, Ingushetia, Serbia, Indonesia, Nepal, Sri Lanka, India and Thailand).\n\nFrom 2004 onwards, the organisation launched short and long-term activities in Asia, Africa and Latin America. Notably, it opened in 2006 a first #Protection Desks in Nepal, which is a permanent local structure whose objective is to diagnose human rights related threats, train local human rights defenders organisations and monitor their activities. Since then, #Protection Desks have been opened in Colombia, Guatemala, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\nWhile developing its presence in sensitive areas, PI began working in 2003 with members of Parliaments in various European countries on the adoption of resolutions and motions on the protection of defenders. As a result, PI assisted the Belgian Parliament and Senate in designing and adopting in July 2003, a global reach resolution which asked the Belgian Government to \"request its diplomatic missions to observe carefully and systematically the situation of human rights defenders in the countries where they're working.\"\". In 2004, the Bundestag adopted a similar resolution and Spain followed in 2007 by voting its own legislation.\n\nIn the last few years, Protection International developed itself quite rapidly. From August 2008 to December 2009, it delivered trainings about security and protection measures for nearly 1500 HRD in its working countries. Moreover, it provides on a daily basis advice to 600 HRDs and their organisations through its permanent Protection Desks and liaise with international institutions such as the African Commission on Human and People's Rights (ACHPR) and the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders in order to design and implement new protection mechanisms.\n\nIn 2009, PI also issued its first annual report which represents \"years of experience in field protection\".\n\nBroadly speaking, Protection International's objective is \"to contribute to ensuring fulfilment of national and international obligations for the protection of human rights defenders – people who, individually or together with others, take action to promote or protect human rights\". Concretely it focuses itself on two goals :\n\n\nIn every activities, Protection Line follows international standards in international human rights law and especially the UN Declaration on Human Rights Defenders(1998), The EU Guidelines on HRD and the UN Guiding Principles for IDPs (Deng's principles).\n\nWhile it put the emphasis on the improvement of human rights defenders abilities regarding the handling of security, protection and psychosocial training, both for themselves and the beneficiaries of their work, PI's Global Protection programme also focuses itself on political action and advocacy, in order that the national and international authorities and other key actors involved in protection issues enforce their obligations in terms of human rights defenders protection.\n\nAccording to the Annual Report 2008 foreword, Protection International's role is not \"to replace governments\" in their responsibilities to protect human right's defenders but well to \"advise defenders on improving their security by following tried-and-tested procedures\" and to complement the work done by other NGOs and international institutions in this field. Therefore, PI covers a wide range of activities :\n\nIn the last years, Protection International turned its attention to the setting and development of an original and long-term concept : the Protection Desk (PDs). PDs are permanent structures that provide human rights defenders with the know-how and necessary tools to prioritize security and protection issues in their working plans (i.e. : in a newspaper or a trade union) and to develop their own security plan based on the trainings given by PI's trainers on the field. PDs are developed with other human rights organizations active in the targeted country and local partner organizations. The first Protection Desk opened in Nepal in 2006 and worked with \"NGO's working in conflict regions with ethnic minorities, victims and community committees and on security-sensitivie topics like human trafficking\". Since then, Protection International grew substantially and opened new PD's in Uganda, Colombia, Guatemala and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Moreover, the organization is in the preparation of the setting up of a new Protection Desk in Thaïland which should be active in various countries of the region, from Pakistan to Indonesia.\n\nIn 2004, Protection International led an observatory mission in DRC and organised two seminars on the EU Guidelines on HRDs. From 2006 until 2007, it went on with the training of defenders: among the beneficiaries, there were 185 organisations of civil society coming from 13 conflict regions. Along this, Protection International developed regular advocacy activities for an improved protection of HRDs, mainly aimed at European embassies, the MONUC and also national and local stakeholders, especially those involved in the reform of the Congolese Judiciary.\n\nIn July 2006, PI organised a conference with 30 Congolese HRDs, Michael Matthiessen, Javier Solana's personal representative for human rights and the ACHPR's Special Rapporteur, Reine Alapini. En 2006, PI produced \"Les armes de l'impunité\" (\"The Weapons of Impunity\"), a documentary that recounts the assassination of Pascal Kabungulu, a Congolese human rights defender, who worked for the \"Ligue des Droits de l'Homme dans la Région des Grands Lacs\" (The Human Rights League of the Great Lakes) and the Protestant NGO \"Héritiers de la Justice\" (Heirs of Justice), and denounces the systematic intimidation or physic violence against the defenders who documented the abuses committed during the Second Congo War.\n\nIn May 2009, Protection International requested a re-trial of the Maheshe Case. Serge Maheshe was a Congolese journalist working for Radio Okapi, the radio supported by the Monuc, who was assassinated in Bukavu in June 2007. According to Protection International, the trial \"which took place in front of the Military Jurisdictions of Bukavu both at first instance and at appeal, respected neither the norms of a fair and equitable trial nor led to the manifestation of truth. In spite of this, three civilians were sentenced to death in May 2008\". The organization recounts the whole observation of the appeal trial in a comprehensive report entitled \"Rapport d’observation du procès d’appel «Maheshe» devant la cour militaire du Sud-Kivu (R.D. Congo) et suivi des recours\". The work and the call for re-examination and re-trial of Protection International was deemed by the Belgian journalist Colette Braeckman, specialist of the DRC, \"all the more relevant as Didace Namujimbo, another journalist from Bukavu who also worked for the Monuc -which didn't take any civil action for both of its contributors- was assassinated in similar circumstances in 2008\"\n\nIn August 2009, after the assassination of Bruno Koko Chirambiza, journalist at the Bukavu private station Radio Star Protection International, along with four other NGO's (Action des chrétiens pour l'abolition de la torture, Fédération de l'action des chrétiens pour l'abolition de la torture, Frontline et Diakonie), asked the Congolese authorities to put an end to impunity, claiming that \"the situation of journalists and human rights defenders in the DRC is more and more worrying\".\n\nHuman rights defenders\n\na. This resolution considered the creation of the UN Special Representative of the Secretary General on Human Rights Defenders function (occupied then by Hina Jilani, who was succeeded in 2008 by Margaret Sekaggya) as a \"great victory for all the people who fight everyday for the enforcement of human rights\" and recognized that human rights defenders \"in many countries are more and more victims of intimidations because of their activities, [...] they need a protection from the international community\".\n\nb. Among these stakeholders : Government and State officials, parliamentary members, media, citizens, international governmental and non governmental organizations, local organizations of HRDs, IDPs, refugees and other vulnerable groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "14599790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14599790", "title": "Quantaloid", "text": "Quantaloid\n\nIn mathematics, a quantaloid is a category enriched over the category Sup of \"suplattices\". In other words for any objects \"a\", \"b\" the morphism object between them is not just a set but a complete lattice, in such a way that composition of morphisms preserves all joins:\n\nformula_1\n\nThe endomorphism lattice formula_2 of any object formula_3 in a quantaloid is a quantale, whence the name.\n"}
{"id": "28075395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28075395", "title": "Quantum topology", "text": "Quantum topology\n\nQuantum topology is a branch of mathematics that connects quantum mechanics with low-dimensional topology.\n\nDirac notation provides a viewpoint of quantum mechanics which becomes amplified into a framework that can embrace the amplitudes associated with topological spaces and the related embedding of one space within another such as knots and links in three-dimensional space. This bra–ket notation of kets and bras can be generalised, becoming maps of vector spaces associated with topological spaces that allow tensor products.\n\nTopological entanglement involving linking and braiding can be intuitively related to quantum entanglement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14516153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14516153", "title": "Scottish government economy directorates", "text": "Scottish government economy directorates\n\nThe Scottish government economy directorates were a set of directorates within the Scottish government, the executive arm of the devolved government of Scotland. The directorates were headed by Dr Andrew Goudie, who also acted as the chief economic adviser to the Scottish government (Goudie retired in 2011 and joined Strathclyde University). The directorates were responsible for transport, sustainable development and planning. In 2010, the transport directorate merged with Transport Scotland, an Executive Agency of the Scottish Government and accountable to Scottish Ministers.\n"}
{"id": "236331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236331", "title": "Sexual harassment", "text": "Sexual harassment\n\nSexual harassment is bullying or coercion of a sexual nature and the unwelcome or inappropriate promise of rewards in exchange for sexual favors. Sexual harassment includes a range of actions from mild transgressions to sexual abuse or assault. A harasser may be the victim's supervisor, a supervisor in another area, a co-worker, or a client or customer. Harassers or victims may be of any gender.\n\nIn most modern legal contexts, sexual harassment is illegal. Laws surrounding sexual harassment generally do not prohibit simple teasing, offhand comments, or minor isolated incidents—that is due to the fact that they do not impose a \"general civility code\". In the workplace, harassment may be considered illegal when it is frequent or severe thereby creating a hostile or offensive work environment or when it results in an adverse employment decision (such as the victim's demotion, firing or quitting). The legal and social understanding of sexual harassment, however, varies by culture.\n\nSexual harassment by an employer is a form of illegal employment discrimination. For many businesses or organizations, preventing sexual harassment and defending employees from sexual harassment charges have become key goals of legal decision-making.\n\nThe modern legal understanding of sexual harassment was first developed in the 1970s, although related concepts have existed in many cultures.\n\nAlthough legal activist Catharine MacKinnon is sometimes credited with creating the laws surrounding sexual harassment in the United States with her 1979 book entitled \"Sexual Harassment of Working Women\", the first known use of the term \"sexual harassment\" was in a 1973 report about discrimination called \"Saturn's Rings\" by Mary Rowe, Ph.D. though Rowe has stated that sexual harassment was being discussed in women's groups in Massachusetts in the early 1970s, and wasn't likely the first person to use the term. At the time, Rowe was the Chancellor for Women and Work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Due to her efforts at MIT, the university was one of the first large organizations in the U.S. to develop specific policies and procedures aimed at stopping sexual harassment.\n\nIn the book \"In Our Time: Memoir of a Revolution\" (1999), journalist Susan Brownmiller quotes Cornell University activists who believed they had coined the term 'sexual harassment' in 1975 after being asked for help by Carmita Dickerson Wood, a 44-year-old single mother who was being harassed by a faculty member at Cornell's Department of Nuclear Physics.\n\nThese activists, Lin Farley, Susan Meyer, and Karen Sauvigne went on to form the Working Women's Institute which, along with the Alliance Against Sexual Coercion (founded in 1976 by Freada Klein, Lynn Wehrli, and Elizabeth Cohn-Stuntz), were among the pioneer organizations to bring sexual harassment to public attention in the late 1970s. One of the first legal formulations of the concept of sexual harassment as consistent with sex discrimination and therefore prohibited behavior under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 appeared in the 1979 seminal book by Catharine MacKinnon entitled \"Sexual Harassment of Working Women\".\n\nSexual harassment first became codified in U.S. law as the result of a series of sexual harassment cases in the 1970s and 1980s. Many of the early women pursuing these cases were African American, often former civil rights activists who applied principles of civil rights to sex discrimination.\n\n\"Williams v. Saxbe\" (1976) and \"Paulette L. Barnes, Appellant, v. Douglas M. Costle, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency\" (1977) determined it was sex discrimination to fire someone for refusing a supervisor's advances. Around the same time, \"Bundy v. Jackson\" was the first federal appeals court case to hold that workplace sexual harassment was employment discrimination. Five years later the Supreme Court agreed with this holding in \"Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson.\" Another pioneering legal case was \"Alexander v. Yale\", which established that the sexual harassment of female students could be considered sex discrimination under Title IX, and was thus illegal.\n\nThe term was largely unknown (outside academic and legal circles) until the early 1990s when Anita Hill witnessed and testified against Supreme Court of the United States nominee Clarence Thomas. Since Hill testified in 1991, the number of sexual harassment cases reported in the US and Canada increased 58 percent and have climbed steadily.\n\nSexual harassment may occur in a variety of circumstances—in workplaces as varied as factories, school, college, acting, and the music business. Often, the perpetrator is in a position of power or authority over the victim (due to differences in age, or social, political, educational or employment relationships). They can also be expecting to receive such power or authority in form of promotion. Forms of harassment relationships include:\n\nWith the advent of the internet, social interactions, including sexual harassment, increasingly occur online, for example in video games or in chat rooms.\n\nAccording to the 2014 PEW research statistics on online harassment, 25% of women and 13% of men between the ages of 18 and 24 have experienced sexual harassment while online.\n\nThe United States' Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) defines workplace sexual harassment as \"unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual harassment when this conduct explicitly or implicitly affects an individual's employment, unreasonably interferes with an individual's work performance, or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment” (EEOC).\n\nStudies of sexual harassment have found that it is markedly more common in the military than in civilian settings. A Canadian study found that key risk factors associated with military settings are the typically young age of personnel, the 'isolated and integrated' nature of accommodation, the minority status of women, and the disproportionate number of men in senior positions. The traditionally masculine values and behaviours that are rewarded and reinforced in military settings, as well as their emphasis on conformity and obedience, are also thought to play a role. Canadian research has also found that the risk increases during deployment on military operations.\n\nWhile some male military personnel are sexually harassed, women are substantially more likely to be affected. Women who are younger and joined the military at a younger age face a greater risk, according to American, British and French research.\n\nChild recruits (under the age of 18) and children in cadet forces also face an elevated risk. In the UK, for example, hundreds of complaints of the sexual abuse of cadets have been recorded since 2012. In Canada, one in ten complaints of sexual assault in military settings are from child cadets or their parents.\n\nIndividuals detained by the military are also vulnerable to sexual harassment. During the Iraq War, for example, personnel of the US army and US Central Intelligence Agency committed a number of human rights violations against detainees in the Abu Ghraib prison, including rape, sodomy, and other forms of sexual abuse.\n\nAlthough the risk of sexual misconduct in the armed forces is widely acknowledged, personnel are frequently reluctant to report incidents, typically out of fear of reprisals, according to research in Australia, Canada, France, the UK, and the US.\n\nWomen affected by sexual harassment are more likely than other women to suffer stress-related mental illness afterwards. Research in the US found that when sexual abuse of female military personnel is psychiatrically traumatic, the odds of suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after deployment on operations increase by a factor of nine.\n\nOne of the difficulties in understanding sexual harassment is that it involves a range of behaviors. In most cases (although not in all cases) it is difficult for the victim to describe what they experienced. This can be related to difficulty classifying the situation or could be related to stress and humiliation experienced by the recipient. Moreover, behavior and motives vary between individual cases.\n\nAuthor Martha Langelan describes four different classes of harassers.\n\nSexual harassment and assault may be prevented by secondary school, college, and workplace education programs. At least one program for fraternity men produced \"sustained behavioral change\".\n\nMany sororities and fraternities in the United States take preventative measures against hazing and hazing activities during the participants' pledging processes (which may often include sexual harassment). Many Greek organizations and universities nationwide have anti-hazing policies that explicitly recognize various acts and examples of hazing, and offer preventative measures for such situations.\n\nAnti-sexual harassment training programs have little evidence of effectiveness and \"Some studies suggest that training may in fact backfire, reinforcing gendered stereotypes that place women at a disadvantage\".\n\nThe impact of sexual harassment can vary. In research carried out by the EU Fundamental Rights Agency, 17,335 female victims of sexual assault were asked to name the feelings that resulted from the most serious incident of sexual assault that they had encountered since the age of 15. 'Anger, annoyance, and embarrassment were the most common emotional responses, with 45% of women feeling anger, 41% annoyance, and 36% embarrassment. Furthermore, close to one in three women (29%) who has experienced sexual harassment have said that they felt fearful as a result of the most serious incident, while one in five (20%) victims say that the most serious incident made themselves feel ashamed of what had taken place. In other situations, harassment may lead to temporary or prolonged stress or depression depending on the recipient's psychological abilities to cope and the type of harassment and the social support or lack thereof for the recipient. Psychologists and social workers report that severe or chronic sexual harassment can have the same psychological effects as rape or sexual assault. Victims who do not submit to harassment may also experience various forms of retaliation, including isolation and bullying.\n\nAs an overall social and economic effect every year, sexual harassment deprives women from active social and economic participation and costs hundreds of millions of dollars in lost educational and professional opportunities for mostly girls and women. However, the quantity of men implied in these conflicts is significant.\n\nSexual harassment, by definition, is unwanted and not to be tolerated. There are ways, however, for offended and injured people to overcome the resultant psychological effects, remain in or return to society, regain healthy feelings within personal relationships when they were affected by the outside relationship trauma, regain social approval, and recover the ability to concentrate and be productive in educational and work environments. These include stress management and therapy, cognitive-behavioral therapy, friends and family support, and advocacy.\n\nImmediate psychological and legal counseling are recommended since self-treatment may not release stress or remove trauma, and simply reporting to authorities may not have the desired effect, may be ignored, or may further injure the victim at its response.\n\nA 1991 study done by K.R. Yount found three dominant strategies developed by a sample of women coal miners to manage sexual harassment on the job: the \"lady\", the \"flirt\", and the \"tomboy\".\nThe \"ladies\" were typically the older women workers who tended to disengage from the men, kept their distance, avoided using profanity, avoided engaging in any behavior that might be interpreted as suggestive. They also tended to emphasize by their appearance and manners that they were ladies. The consequences for the \"ladies\" were that they were the targets of the least amount of come-ons, teasing and sexual harassment, but they also accepted the least prestigious and lowest-paid jobs.\n\nThe \"flirts\" were most often the younger single women. As a defense mechanism, they pretended to be flattered when they were the targets of sexual comments. Consequently, they became perceived as the \"embodiment of the female stereotype...as particularly lacking in potential and were given the fewest opportunities to develop job skills and to establish social and self-identities as miners.\"\n\nThe \"tomboys\" were generally single women, but were older than the \"flirts\". They attempted to separate themselves from the female stereotype and focused on their status as coal miners and tried to develop a \"thick skin\". They responded to harassment with humor, comebacks, sexual talk of their own, or reciprocation. As a result, they were often viewed as sluts or sexually promiscuous and as women who violated the sexual double standard. Consequently, they were subjected to intensified and increased harassment by some men. It was not clear whether the tomboy strategy resulted in better or worse job assignments.\n\nThe findings of this study may be applicable to other work settings, including factories, restaurants, offices, and universities. The study concludes that individual strategies for coping with sexual harassment are not likely to be effective and may have unexpected negative consequences for the workplace and may even lead to increased sexual harassment. Women who try to deal with sexual harassment on their own, regardless of what they do, seem to be in a no-win situation.\n\nCommon psychological, academic, professional, financial, and social effects of sexual harassment and retaliation:\n\nSome of the psychological and health effects that can occur in someone who has been sexually harassed as a result of stress and humiliation:\ndepression; anxiety; panic attacks; sleeplessness; nightmares; shame; guilt; difficulty concentrating; headaches; fatigue; loss of motivation; stomach problems; eating disorders (such as weight loss or gain); alcoholism; feeling betrayed, violated, angry, violent towards the perpetrator, powerless or out of control; increased blood pressure; loss of confidence or self-esteem; withdrawal; isolation; overall loss of trust in people; traumatic stress; post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD); complex post-traumatic stress disorder; suicidal thoughts or attempts, and suicide.\n\nRetaliation and backlash against a victim are very common, particularly a complainant. Victims who speak out against sexual harassment are often labeled troublemakers who are on their own \"power trips\", or who are looking for attention. Similar to cases of rape or sexual assault, the victim often becomes the accused, with their appearance, private life, and character likely to fall under intrusive scrutiny and attack. They risk hostility and isolation from colleagues, supervisors, teachers, fellow students, and even friends. They may become the targets of mobbing or relational aggression.\n\nWomen are not necessarily sympathetic to female complainants who have been sexually harassed. If the harasser was male, internalized sexism (or jealousy over the sexual attention towards the victim) may encourage some women to react with as much hostility towards the complainant as some male colleagues. Fear of being targeted for harassment or retaliation themselves may also cause some women to respond with hostility. For example, when Lois Jenson filed her lawsuit against Eveleth Taconite Co., the women shunned her both at work and in the community—many of these women later joined her suit. Women may even project hostility onto the victim in order to bond with their male coworkers and build trust.\n\nRetaliation has occurred when a sexual harassment victim suffers a negative action as a result of the harassment. For example, a complainant be given poor evaluations or low grades, have their projects sabotaged, be denied work or academic opportunities, have their work hours cut back, and other actions against them which undermine their productivity, or their ability to advance at work or school, being fired after reporting sexual harassment or leading to unemployment as they may be suspended, asked to resign, or be fired from their jobs altogether. Retaliation can even involve further sexual harassment, and also stalking and cyberstalking of the victim. Moreover, a school professor or employer accused of sexual harassment, or who is the colleague of a perpetrator, can use their power to see that a victim is never hired again(blacklisting), or never accepted to another school.\n\nOf the women who have approached her to share their own experiences of being sexually harassed by their teachers, feminist and writer Naomi Wolf wrote in 2004:\n\nI am ashamed of what I tell them: that they should indeed worry about making an accusation because what they fear is likely to come true. Not one of the women I have heard from had an outcome that was not worse for her than silence. One, I recall, was drummed out of the school by peer pressure. Many faced bureaucratic stonewalling. Some women said they lost their academic status as golden girls overnight; grants dried up, letters of recommendation were no longer forthcoming. No one was met with a coherent process that was not weighted against them. Usually, the key decision-makers in the college or university—especially if it was a private university—joined forces to, in effect, collude with the faculty member accused; to protect not him necessarily but the reputation of the university, and to keep information from surfacing in a way that could protect other women. The goal seemed to be not to provide a balanced forum, but damage control.\n\nAnother woman who was interviewed by sociologist Helen Watson said, \"Facing up to the crime and having to deal with it in public is probably worse than suffering in silence. I found it to be a lot worse than the harassment itself.\"\n\nBacklash stress is stress resulting from an uncertainty regarding changing norms for interacting with women in the workplace. Backlash stress now deters many male workers from befriending female colleagues, or providing them with any assistance, such as holding doors open. As a result, women are being handicapped by a lack of the necessary networking and mentorship.\n\nMost companies have policies against sexual harassment, however these policies are not designed and should not attempt to \"regulate romance\" which goes against human urges.\n\nAct upon a report of harassment inside the organization should be:\n\nWhen organizations do not take the respective satisfactory measures for properly investigating, stress and psychological counseling and guidance, and just deciding of the problem this could lead to:\n\nStudies show that organizational climate (an organization's tolerance, policy, procedure etc.) and workplace environment are essential for understanding the conditions in which sexual harassment is likely to occur, and the way its victims will be affected (yet, research on specific policy and procedure, and awareness strategies is lacking). Another element which increases the risk for sexual harassment is the job’s gender context (having few women in the close working environment or practicing in a field which is atypical for women).\n\nAccording to Dr. Orit Kamir, the most effective way to avoid sexual harassment in the workplace, and also influence the public’s state of mind, is for the employer to adopt a clear policy prohibiting sexual harassment and to make it very clear to their employees. Many women prefer to make a complaint and to have the matter resolved within the workplace rather than to \"air out the dirty laundry\" with a public complaint and be seen as a traitor by colleagues, superiors and employers, adds Kamir.\n\nMost prefer a pragmatic solution that would stop the harassment and prevent future contact with the harasser rather than turning to the police. More about the difficulty in turning an offense into a legal act can be found in Felstiner & Sarat's (1981) study, which describes three steps a victim (of any dispute) must go through before turning to the justice system: naming – giving the assault a definition, blaming – understanding who is responsible for the violation of rights and facing them, and finally, claiming – turning to the authorities.\n\nIt may include a range of actions from mild transgressions to sexual abuse or sexual assault. Sexual harassment is a form of illegal employment discrimination in many countries, and is a form of abuse (sexual and psychological abuses) and bullying.\n\nThe Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women classifies violence against women into three categories: that occurring in the family, that occurring within the general community, and that perpetrated or condoned by the State. The term \"sexual harassment\" is used in defining violence occurring in the general community, which is defined as: \"Physical, sexual and psychological violence occurring within the general community, including rape, sexual abuse, sexual harassment and intimidation at work, in educational institutions and elsewhere, trafficking in women and forced prostitution.\"\n\nSexual harassment is subject to a directive in the European Union. The United States' Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) states, \"It is unlawful to harass a person (an applicant or employee) because of that person's sex.\"\n\nIn India, the case of Vishakha and others v State of Rajasthan in 1997 has been credited with establishing sexual harassment as illegal. In Israel, the 1988 Equal Employment Opportunity Law made it a crime for an employer to retaliate against an employee who had rejected sexual advances, but it wasn't until 1998 that the Israeli Sexual Harassment Law made such behavior illegal.\n\nIn May 2002, the European Union Council and Parliament amended a 1976 Council Directive on the equal treatment of men and women in employment to prohibit sexual harassment in the workplace, naming it a form of sex discrimination and violation of dignity. This Directive required all Member States of the European Union to adopt laws on sexual harassment, or amend existing laws to comply with the Directive by October 2005.\n\nIn 2005, China added new provisions to the \"Law on Women's Right Protection\" to include sexual harassment. In 2006, \"The Shanghai Supplement\" was drafted to help further define sexual harassment in China.\n\nSexual harassment was specifically criminalized for the first time in modern Egyptian history in June 2014.\n\nSexual harassment remains legal in Kuwait and Djibouti.\n\nThe United Nations General Recommendation 19 to the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women defines sexual harassment of women to include:\n\nsuch unwelcome sexually determined behavior as physical contact and advances, sexually colored remarks, showing pornography and sexual demands, whether by words or actions. Such conduct can be humiliating and may constitute a health and safety problem; it is discriminatory when the woman has reasonable ground to believe that her objection would disadvantage her in connection with her employment, including recruitment or promotion, or when it creates a hostile working environment.\n\nWhile such conduct can be harassment of women by men, many laws around the world which prohibit sexual harassment recognize that both men and women may be harassers or victims of sexual harassment. However, most claims of sexual harassment are made by women.\n\nThere are many similarities, and also important differences in laws and definitions used around the world.\n\nIn 2016 a stricter law proscribing sexual harassment was proposed in Morocco specifying fines and a possible jail sentence of up to 6 months. The existing law against harassment was reported to not be upheld, as harassment was not reported to police by victims and even when reported, was not investigated by police or prosecuted by the courts.\n\nThe Sex Discrimination Act 1984 defines sexual harassment as \"... a person sexually harasses another person (the person harassed ) if: (a) the person makes an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours, to the person harassed; or (b) engages in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature in relation to the person harassed; in circumstances in which a reasonable person, having regard to all the circumstances, would have anticipated the possibility that the person harassed would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.\"\n\nIn the European Union, there is a directive on sexual harassment. The \"Directive 2002/73/EC - equal treatment of 23 September 2002 amending Council Directive 76/207/EEC on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions\" states:\nFor the purposes of this Directive, the following definitions shall apply: (...)\nHarassment and sexual harassment within the meaning of this Directive shall be deemed to be discrimination on the grounds of sex and therefore prohibited.\n\nThe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence also addresses the issue of sexual harassment (Article 40), using a similar definition.\n\nSexual harassment is defined as, when any verbal, non-verbal or physical action is used to change a victim's sexual status against the will of the victim and resulting in the victim feeling inferior or hurting the victim's dignity. Man and woman are looked upon as equal, and any action trying to change the balance in status with the differences in sex as a tool, is also sexual harassment. In the workplace, jokes, remarks, etc., are only deemed discriminatory if the employer has stated so in their written policy. Law number 1385 of December 21, 2005 regulates this area.\n\nIn France, both the Criminal Code and the Labor Code are relevant to the issue of sexual harassment. Until May 4, 2012, article 222-33 of the French Criminal Code described sexual harassment as \"The fact of harassing anyone in order to obtain favors of a sexual nature\". Since 2002, it recognized the possibility of sexual harassment between co-workers and not only by supervisors. On May 4, 2012, the Conseil constitutionnel (French Supreme Court) quashed the definition of the criminal code as being too vague. The 2012 decision resulted from a law on priority preliminary rulings on the issue of constitutionality. As a consequence of this decision, all pending procedures before criminal courts were cancelled. Several feminist NGOs, such as AFVT, criticized this decision. President François Hollande, the Minister of Justice (Christine Taubira) and the Minister of Equality (Najat Belkacem) asked that a new law be voted rapidly. As a result, \"LOI n°2012-954 du 6 août 2012\" was voted in, providing a new definition. In addition to criminal provisions, the French Labor code also prohibits sexual harassment. The legislator voted a law in 2008 that copied the 2002/73/EC Directive definition without modifying the French Labour Code.\n\nSexual harassment is no statutory offense in Germany. In special cases it might be chargeable as \"Insult\" (with sexual context) as per § 185 Strafgesetzbuch but only if \"special circumstances\" show an insulting nature.\n\nThe victim has only a right to self-defend while the attack takes place. If a perpetrator kisses or gropes the victim, they may only fight back while this is happening. If the victim would, for instance, slap back after the attacker already stopped, the victim might be chargeable for assault as per § 223 Strafgesetzbuch.\n\nIn June 2016 the governing coalition decided about the key points of a tightening of the law governing sexual offenses (Sexualstrafrecht, literally: law on the punishment of sexual delicts). At July 7, 2016 the Bundestag passed the resolution and by autumn 2016 the draft bill will be presented to the second chamber, the Bundesrat. By this change, sexual harassment shall become punishable under the Sexualstrafrecht.\n\nIn response to the EU Directive 2002/73/EC, Greece enacted Law 3488/2006 (O.G.A.'.191). The law specifies that sexual harassment is a form of gender-based discrimination in the workplace. Victims also have the right to compensation. Prior to this law, the policy on sexual harassment in Greece was very weak. Sexual harassment was not defined by any law, and victims could only use general laws, which were very poor in addressing the issue.\n\nIn the Criminal Code, Russian Federation, (CC RF), there exists a law which prohibits utilization of an office position and material dependence for coercion of sexual interactions (Article 118, current CC RF). However, according to the Moscow Center for Gender Studies, in practice, the courts do not examine these issues.\n\n\"The Daily Telegraph\" quotes a survey in which \"100 percent of female professionals [in Russia] said they had been subjected to sexual harassment by their bosses, 32 per cent said they had had intercourse with them at least once and another seven per cent claimed to have been raped.\"\n\nA ban on discrimination was included in the Federal Constitution (Article 4, Paragraph 2 of the old Federal Constitution) in 1981 and adopted in Article 8, paragraph 2 of the revised Constitution. The ban on sexual harassment in the workplace forms part of the Federal Act on Gender Equality (GEA) of 24 March 1995, where it is one of several provisions which prohibit discrimination in employment and which are intended to promote equality. Article 4 of the GEA defines the circumstances, Article 5 legal rights and Article 10 protection against dismissal during the complaints procedure. Article 328, paragraph 1 of the Code of Obligations (OR), Article 198 (2) of the Penal Code (StGB) and Article 6, paragraph 1 of the Employment Act (ArG) contain further statutory provisions on the ban on sexual harassment. The ban on sexual harassment is intended exclusively for employers, within the scope of their responsibility for protection of legal personality, mental and physical well-being and health.\n\nArticle 4 of the GEA of 1995 discusses the topic of sexual harassment in the workplace: \"Any harassing behaviour of a sexual nature or other behaviour related to the person's sex that adversely affects the dignity of women or men in the workplace is discriminatory. Such behaviour includes in particular threats, the promise of advantages, the use of coercion and the exertion of pressure in order to obtain favours of a sexual nature.\"\n\nThe Discrimination Act of 1975, was modified to establish sexual harassment as a form of discrimination in 1986. It states that harassment occurs where there is unwanted conduct on the ground of a person's sex or unwanted conduct of a sexual nature and that conduct has the purpose or effect of violating a person's dignity, or of creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for them. If an employer treats someone less favourably because they have rejected, or submitted to, either form of harassment described above, this is also harassment.\n\nSexual harassment in India is termed \"Eve teasing\" and is described as: unwelcome sexual gesture or behaviour whether directly or indirectly as sexually coloured remarks; physical contact and advances; showing pornography; a demand or request for sexual favours; any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct being sexual in nature or passing sexually offensive and unacceptable remarks. The critical factor is the unwelcomeness of the behaviour, thereby making the impact of such actions on the recipient more relevant rather than intent of the perpetrator. According to the Indian constitution, sexual harassment infringes the fundamental right of a woman to gender equality under Article 14 and her right to life and live with dignity under Article 21.\n\nIn 1997, the Supreme Court of India in a Public Interest Litigation, defined sexual harassment at workplace, preventive measures and redress mechanism. The judgment is popularly known as Vishaka Judgment. In April 2013, India enacted its own law on sexual harassment in the workplace - The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. Almost 16 years after the Supreme Court's landmark guidelines on prevention of sexual harassment in the workplace (known as the \"Vishaka Guidelines\"), the Act has endorsed many of the guidelines, and is a step towards codifying gender equality. The Act is intended to include all women employees in its ambit, including those employed in the unorganized sector, as well as domestic workers.\n\nThe Act has identified sexual harassment as a violation of the fundamental rights of a woman to equality under articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution of India and her right to life and to live with dignity under article 21 of the Constitution; as well as the right to practice any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business which includes a right to a safe environment free from sexual harassment. The Act also states that the protection against sexual harassment and the right to work with dignity are universally recognized human rights by international conventions and instruments such as Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women, which has been ratified on the 25th June, 1993 by the Government of India.\n\nThe Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 introduced changes to the Indian Penal Code, making sexual harassment an expressed offense under Section 354 A, which is punishable up to three years of imprisonment and or with fine. The Amendment also introduced new sections making acts like disrobing a woman without consent, stalking and sexual acts by person in authority an offense.\n\nThe 1998 Israeli Sexual Harassment Law interprets sexual harassment broadly, and prohibits the behavior as a discriminatory practice, a restriction of liberty, an offense to human dignity, a violation of every person's right to elementary respect, and an infringement of the right to privacy. Additionally, the law prohibits intimidation or retaliation thus related to sexual harassment are defined by the law as \"prejudicial treatment\".\n\nSexual Harassment, or \"sekuhara\" in Japanese, appeared most dramatically in Japanese discourse in 1989, when a court case in Fukuoka ruled in favor of a woman who had been subjected to the spreading of sexual rumors by a co-worker. When the case was first reported, it spawned a flurry of public interest: 10 books were published, including English-language feminist guidebooks to ‘how not to harass women’ texts for men. Sekuhara was named 1989’s ‘Word of the Year.’ The case was resolved in the victim’s favor in 1992, awarding her about $13,000 in damages, the first sexual harassment lawsuit in Japanese history.\n\nLaws then established two forms of sexual harassment: \"daisho\", in which rewards or penalties are explicitly linked to sexual acts, and \"kankyo\", in which the environment is made unpleasant through sexual talk or jokes, touching, or hanging sexually explicit posters. This applies to everyone in an office, including customers.\n\nPakistan has promulgated harassment law in 2010 with nomenclature as \"The Protection Against Harassment of Women at The Workplace Act, 2010\".\nThis law defines the act of harassment in following terms.\n\"Harassment means any unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual favors or other verbal or written communication or physical conduct of a sexual nature or sexually demeaning attitude, causing interference with work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment, or the attempt to punish the complainant for refusal to such a request or is made a condition for employment.\"\nPakistan has adopted a Code of Conduct for Gender Justice in the Workplace that will deal with cases of sexual harassment. The Alliance Against Sexual Harassment At workplace (AASHA) announced they would be working with the committee to establish guidelines for the proceedings. AASHA defines sexual harassment much the same as it is defined in the U.S. and other cultures.\n\nThe Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995 was enacted:\n\nprimarily to protect and respect the dignity of workers, employees, and applicants for employment as well as students in educational institutions or training centers. This law, consisting of ten sections, provides for a clear definition of work, education or training-related sexual harassment and specifies the acts constituting sexual harassment. It likewise provides for the duties and liabilities of the employer in cases of sexual harassment, and sets penalties for violations of its provisions. It is to be noted that a victim of sexual harassment is not barred from filing a separate and independent action for damages and other relief aside from filing the charge for sexual harassment.\n\nIn the United States, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits employment discrimination based on race, sex, color, national origin or religion. Initially intended to only combat sexual harassment of females, {42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2} the prohibition of sex discrimination covers males and females. This discrimination occurs when the sex of the worker is made as a condition of employment (i.e. all female waitpersons or male carpenters) or where this is a job requirement that does not mention sex but ends up preventing many more persons of one sex than the other from the job (such as height and weight limits). This act only applies to employers with 15 or more employees.\n\n\"Barnes v. Train\" (1974) is commonly viewed as the first sexual harassment case in America, even though the term \"sexual harassment\" was not used. The term \"sexual harassment\" was coined and popularized by Lin Farley in 1975, based on a pattern she recognized during a 1974 Cornell University class she taught on women and work. In 1976, \"Williams v. Saxbe\" established sexual harassment as a form of sex discrimination when sexual advances by a male supervisor towards a female employee, if proven, would be deemed an artificial barrier to employment placed before one gender and not another. In 1980 the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) issued regulations defining sexual harassment and stating it was a form of sex discrimination prohibited by the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In the 1986 case of \"Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson\", the Supreme Court first recognized \"sexual harassment\" as a violation of Title VII, established the standards for analyzing whether the conduct was welcome and levels of employer liability, and that speech or conduct in itself can create a \"hostile environment\". This case filed by Mechelle Vinson ruled that the sexual conduct between the subordinate and supervisor could not be deemed voluntary due to the hierarchical relationship between the two positions in the workplace. Following the ruling of Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, reported sexual harassment cases grew from 10 cases being registered by the EEOC per year before 1986 to 624 case being reported in the subsequent following year. This number of reported cases to the EEOC rose to 2,217 in 1990 and then 4,626 by 1995.\n\nThe Civil Rights Act of 1991 added provisions to Title VII protections including expanding the rights of women to sue and collect compensatory and punitive damages for sexual discrimination or harassment, and the case of \"Ellison v. Brady\" resulted in rejecting the reasonable person standard in favor of the \"reasonable woman standard\" which allowed for cases to be analyzed from the perspective of the complainant and not the defendant. Also in 1991, \"Jenson v. Eveleth Taconite Co.\" became the first sexual harassment case to be given class action status paving the way for others. Seven years later, in 1998, through that same case, new precedents were established that increased the limits on the \"discovery\" process in sexual harassment cases, that then allowed psychological injuries from the litigation process to be included in assessing damages awards. In the same year, the courts concluded in \"Faragher v. City of Boca Raton, Florida\", and \"Burlington v. Ellerth\", that employers are liable for harassment by their employees. Moreover, \"Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services\" set the precedent for same-sex harassment, and sexual harassment without motivation of \"sexual desire\", stating that any discrimination based on sex is actionable so long as it places the victim in an objectively disadvantageous working condition, regardless of the gender of either the victim, or the harasser.\n\nIn the 2006 case of \"Burlington Northern & Santa Fe Railway Co. v. White\", the standard for retaliation against a sexual harassment complainant was revised to include any adverse employment decision or treatment that would be likely to dissuade a \"reasonable worker\" from making or supporting a charge of discrimination.\n\nDuring 2007 alone, the \"U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission\" and related state agencies received 12,510 new charges of sexual harassment on the job.\n\nThe 2010 case, Reeves v. C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. ruled that a hostile work environment can be created in a workplace where sexually explicit language and pornography are present. A hostile workplace may exist even if it is not targeted at any particular employee.\n\nFrom 2010 through 2016, approximately 17% of sexual harassment complaints filed with the EEOC were made by men.\n\nTitle IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (United States) states \"No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.\"\n\nIn \"Franklin v. Gwinnett County Public Schools\" (1992), the U.S. Supreme Court held that private citizens could collect damage awards when teachers sexually harassed their students. In \"Bethel School District No. 403 v. Fraser\" (1986) the courts ruled that schools have the power to discipline students if they use \"obscene, profane language or gestures\" which could be viewed as substantially interfering with the educational process, and inconsistent with the \"fundamental values of public school education.\" Under regulations issued in 1997 by the U.S. Department of Education, which administers Title IX, school districts should be held responsible for harassment by educators if the harasser \"was aided in carrying out the sexual harassment of students by his or her position of authority with the institution.\" In \"Davis v. Monroe County Board of Education\", and \"Murrell v. School Dist. No. 1\", 1999, schools were assigned liability for peer-to-peer sexual harassment if the plaintiff sufficiently demonstrated that the administration's response shows \"deliberate indifference\" to \"actual knowledge\" of discrimination.\n\nThere are a number of legal options for a complainant in the U.S.: mediation, filing with the EEOC or filing a claim under a state Fair Employment Practices (FEP) statute (both are for workplace sexual harassment), filing a common law tort, etc. Not all sexual harassment will be considered severe enough to form the basis for a legal claim. However, most often there are several types of harassing behaviors present, and there is no minimum level for harassing conduct under the law. The section below \"EEOC Definition\" describes the legal definitions that have been created for sexual harassment in the workplace. Definitions similar to the EEOC definition have been created for academic environments in the U.S. Department of Education Sexual Harassment Guidance.\n\nThe Equal Employment Opportunity Commission claims that it is unlawful to harass an applicant or employee of any sex in the workplace. The harassment could include sexual harassment. The EEOC says that the victim and harasser could be any gender and that the other does not have to be of the opposite sex. The law does not ban offhand comments, simple teasing, or incidents that aren't very serious. If the harassment gets to the point where it creates a harsh work environment, it will be taken care of. In 1980, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission produced a set of guidelines for defining and enforcing Title VII (in 1984 it was expanded to include educational institutions). The EEOC defines sexual harassment as:\n\nUnwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when:\n\n1. and 2. are called \"quid pro quo\" (Latin for \"this for that\" or \"something for something\"). They are essentially \"sexual bribery\", or promising of benefits, and \"sexual coercion\".\n\nType 3. known as \"hostile work environment\", is by far the most common form. This form is less clear cut and is more subjective.\n\nNote: a workplace harassment complainant \"must\" file with the EEOC and receive a \"right to sue\" clearance, before they can file a lawsuit against a company in federal court.\n\nQuid pro quo means \"this for that\". In the workplace, this occurs when a job benefit is directly tied to an employee submitting to unwelcome sexual advances. For example, a supervisor promises an employee a raise if he or she will go out on a date with him or her, or tells an employee he or she will be fired if he or she doesn't sleep with him or her. Quid pro quo harassment also occurs when an employee makes an evaluative decision, or provides or withholds professional opportunities based on another employee's submission to verbal, nonverbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. Quid pro quo harassment is equally unlawful whether the victim resists and suffers the threatened harm or submits and thus avoids the threatened harm.\n\nThis occurs when an employee is subjected to comments of a sexual nature, unwelcome physical contact, or offensive sexual materials as a regular part of the work environment. For the most part, a single isolated incident will not be enough to prove hostile environment harassment unless it involves extremely outrageous and egregious conduct. The courts will try to decide whether the conduct is both \"serious\" and \"frequent.\" Supervisors, managers, co-workers and even customers can be responsible for creating a hostile environment.\n\nThe line between \"quid pro quo\" and \"hostile environment\" harassment is not always clear and the two forms of harassment often occur together. For example, an employee's job conditions are affected when a sexually hostile work environment results in a constructive discharge. At the same time, a supervisor who makes sexual advances toward a subordinate employee may communicate an implicit threat to retaliate against her if she does not comply.\n\n\"Hostile environment\" harassment may acquire characteristics of \"quid pro quo\" harassment if the offending supervisor abuses his authority over employment decisions to force the victim to endure or participate in the sexual conduct. Sexual harassment may culminate in a retaliatory discharge if a victim tells the harasser or her employer she will no longer submit to the harassment, and is then fired in retaliation for this protest. Under these circumstances it would be appropriate to conclude that both harassment and retaliation in violation of section 704(a) of Title VII have occurred.\"\n\nIn the United States, there are no federal laws prohibiting discrimination against employees based on their sexual orientation. However, Executive Order 13087, signed by President Bill Clinton, outlaws discrimination based on sexual orientation against federal government employees. If a small business owner owns his or her business in a state where there is a law against sexual orientation discrimination, the owner must abide to the law regardless of there not being a federal law. Twenty states and the District of Columbia have laws against this form of discrimination in the workplace. These states include California, Connecticut, Colorado, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington, and Wisconsin. For example, California has laws in place to protect employees who may have been discriminated against based upon sexual orientation or perceived sexual orientation. California law prohibits discrimination against those \"with traits not stereotypically associated with their gender\", such as mannerisms, appearance, or speech. Sexual orientation discrimination comes up, for instance, when employers enforce a dress code, permit women to wear makeup but not men, or require men and women to only use restrooms designated for their particular sex regardless of whether they are transgender.\n\nRetaliation has occurred when an employee suffers a \"negative action\" after he or she has made a report of sexual harassment, file a grievance, assist someone else with a complaint, or participate in discrimination prevention activities. Negative actions can include being fired, demotion, suspension, denial of promotion, poor evaluation, unfavorable job reassignment—any adverse employment decision or treatment that would be likely to dissuade a \"reasonable worker\" from making or supporting a charge of discrimination. (See \"Burlington Northern & Santa Fe Railway Co. v. White\".) Retaliation is as illegal as the sexual harassment itself, but also as difficult to prove. Also, retaliation is illegal even if the original charge of sexual harassment was not proven.\n\nIn ancient Rome, according to Bruce W. Frier and Thomas A.J. McGinn, what is now called \"sexual harassment\" was then any of \"accosting\", \"stalking\", and \"abducting\". \"Accosting\" was \"harassment through attempted seduction\" or another's chastity with smooth talk ... contrary to good morals\", which was more than the lesser offense(s) of \"obscene speech, dirty jokes, and the like\", \"foul language\", and \"clamor\", with the accosting of \"respectable young girls\" who however were dressed in slaves' clothing being a lesser offense and the accosting of \"women ... dressed as prostitutes\" being an even lesser offense. \"Stalking\" was \"silently, persistently pursuing\" if it was \"contrary to good morals\", because a pursuer's \"ceaseless presence virtually ensures appreciable disrepute\". \"Abducting\" an attendant, who was someone who follows someone else as a companion and could be a slave, was \"successfully forcing or persuading the attendant to leave the side of the intended target\", but abducting while the woman \"has not been wearing respectable clothing\" was a lesser offense.\n\nThough the phrase \"sexual harassment\" is generally acknowledged to include clearly damaging and morally deplorable behavior, its boundaries can be broad and controversial. Accordingly, misunderstandings can occur. In the US, sexual harassment law has been criticized by persons such as the criminal defense lawyer Alan Dershowitz and the legal writer and libertarian Eugene Volokh, for imposing limits on the right to free speech.\n\nJana Rave, professor in organizational studies at the Queen's School of Business, criticized sexual harassment policy in the \"Ottawa Business Journal\" as helping maintain archaic stereotypes of women as \"delicate, asexual creatures\" who require special protection when at the same time complaints are lowering company profits. Camille Paglia says that young girls can end up acting in such ways as to make sexual harassment easier, such that for example, by acting \"nice\" they can become a target. Paglia commented in an interview with \"Playboy\", \"Realize the degree to which your niceness may invoke people to say lewd and pornographic things to you--sometimes to violate your niceness. The more you blush, the more people want to do it.\"\n\nOther critics assert that sexual harassment is a very serious problem, but current views focus too heavily on sexuality rather than on the type of conduct that undermines the ability of women or men to work together effectively. Viki Shultz, a law professor at Yale University comments, \"Many of the most prevalent forms of harassment are designed to maintain work—particularly the more highly rewarded lines of work—as bastions of male competence and authority.\" Feminist Jane Gallop sees this evolution of the definition of sexual harassment as coming from a \"split\" between what she calls \"power feminists\" who are pro-sex (like herself) and what she calls \"victim feminists\", who are not. She argues that the split has helped lead to a \"perversion\" of the definition of sexual harassment, which used to be about sexism but has come to be about anything that's sexual.\n\nThere is also concern over abuses of sexual harassment policy by individuals as well as by employers and administrators using false or frivolous accusations as a way of expelling employees they want to eliminate for other reasons. These employees often have virtually no recourse thanks to the at-will law in most US states.\n\nO'Donohue and Bowers outlined 14 possible pathways to false allegations of sexual harassment: \"lying, borderline personality disorder, histrionic personality disorder, psychosis, gender prejudice, substance abuse, dementia, false memories, false interpretations, biased interviews, sociopathy, personality disorders not otherwise specified.\"\n\nThere is also discussion of whether some recent trends towards more revealing clothing and permissive habits have created a more sexualized general environment, in which some forms of communication are unfairly labeled harassment, but are simply a reaction to greater sexualization in everyday environments.\n\nThere are many debates about how organizations should deal with sexual harassment. Some observers feel strongly that organizations should be held to a zero tolerance standard of \"Must report - must investigate - must punish.\"\n\nOthers write that those who feel harassed should in most circumstances have a choice of options.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41077063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41077063", "title": "Silver Branch", "text": "Silver Branch\n\nThe Silver Branch or Silver Bough () is a symbol found in Irish mythology and literature.\n\nFeatured in the Irish poem The Voyage of Bran, it represents entry into the Celtic Otherworld, which the Welsh called Annwn and the Irish Tír na nÓg: \"To enter the Otherworld before the appointed hour marked by death, a passport was often necessary, and this was usually a silver branch of the sacred apple-tree bearing blossoms.\" \n\nThe branch is also associated with Manannán mac Lir, an Irish sea deity with strong affiliation to Tír na nÓg. As guardian of the Otherworld, Manannán also has strong ties with Emhain Abhlach, the Isle of Apple Trees, where the magical silver apple branch is found. Both the branch and Manannán are featured in \"His Three Calls to Cormac\", or \"Cormac's Adventure in the Land of Promise.\" Here, he appeared at Cormac's ramparts (at Tara) in the guise of a warrior who told him he came from a land where old age, sickness, death, decay, and falsehood were unknown (Tír na nÓg). The king was given a \"branch of silver with three golden apples on his shoulder. Delight and amusement to the full was it to listen to the music of that branch, for men sore wounded, or women in child-bed, or folk in sickness, would fall asleep at the melody when that branch was shaken.\"\n\nAlso, in Immacallam in dá Thuarad, or \"The Dialogue of the two Sages\", the mystic symbol used by gods, fairies, magicians, and by all initiates who know the mystery of life and death, is thus described as a Druid symbol:–'Neidhe' (a young bard who aspired to succeed his father as chief poet of Ulster), \"made his journey with a silver branch over him. The Anradhs, or poets of the second order, carried a silver branch, but the Ollamhs, or chief poets, carried a branch of gold; all other poets bore a branch of bronze.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3528567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3528567", "title": "Social disruption", "text": "Social disruption\n\nSocial disruption is a term used in sociology to describe the alteration, dysfunction or breakdown of social life, often in a community setting. Social disruption implies a radical transformation, in which the old certainties of modern society are falling away and something quite new is emerging. Social disruption might be caused through natural disasters, massive human displacements, rapid economic, technological and demographic change but also due to controversial policy-making.\n\nSocial disruptions are for example rising sea levels that are creating new landscapes, drawing new world maps whose key lines are not traditional boundaries between nation-states but elevations above sea level. On the local level, an example would be the closing of a community grocery store, which might cause social disruption in a community by removing a \"meeting ground\" for community members to develop interpersonal relationships and community solidarity.\n\n\"\"We are wandering aimlessly and dispassionately, arguing for and against, but the one statement on which we are, beyond all differences and over many continents, to be able to agree on, is: \"I can no longer understand the world\"\".\n\nSocial disruptions often lead to five social symptoms: Frustration, Democratic Disconnection, Fragmentation, Polarization and Escalation. Studies from the last decade show, that our societies have become more fragmented and less coherent (e.g. Bishop 2008), neighbourhoods turning into little states, organizing themselves to defend the local politics and culture against outsiders (Walzer 1983; Bauman 2017) and increasingly identifying through ways of voting, lifestyle or wellbeing (e.g. Schäfer 2015). Especially people on the more right and left political spectrum are more likely to say it is important to them to live in a place where most people share their political views and have similar interests (Pew 2014). Hence, citizens become alienated from democratic consensus (Foa and Munk 2016; Levitsky and Ziblatt 2018) and tend to assume that their opponents believe more extreme things than they really do (Iyengar et al. 2012). Moreover, fear of being identified as unqualified, denied value and dignity and for that reason marginalized, excluded or outcast, is giving rise to a widespread disenchantment with the idea that the future will improve the human condition and a mistrust in the ability of nation-states to make this happen (Pew 2015; Bauman 2017). At the same time, accelerations in liberal progression, globalization and migration flows have led to increasing polarized contestations about national identities - a volatile and critical social state, prone to conflict escalation (e.g. hate crimes after Brexit vote, incident at far-right rally in Charlottesville, USA).\n\n\"„It is unclear how to achieve policy changes of any kind in a polarized society that has few shared facts and whose civic muscles are atrophying.“\" \n\nInternational but also local challenges force our societies to find solutions and make decisions on controversial issues in an accelerated manner. The complexity of such decisions is not only mirrored in the aim to tackle a multi-causality of root causes, it also faces a high degree of uncertainty as regard to its impact. Hence, due to the growing separation between the world of public opinion on the one hand, and the world of problem solving on the other (Mair 2009), it is very likely that political decisions further polarize our societies. The explanation is that citizens evaluate disruptive developments and related policy changes on a two-way level, on the personal interests and comfort, as well on its perceived impact on their social identity and community (Ryan and Deci 2000; Haidt 2012). If a policy change reflects the substantive representation of the median voter, is something that just does not matter to citizens in regard to their acceptance of decisions (Esaiasson et al. 2017). This can produce multi facet conflicts over interests, facts and norms between supporters and opponents (Itten 2017). Simultaneously, the capacity of political parties and actors of civil society, to bridge that divide, is declining (Mair 2009). In such a situations, social psychology tells us that citizens who feel uncomfortable will hold tighter to the assumptions that make them feel secure (Podziba 2014). Especially in public policy disputes, parties are hardly giving up their assumptions voluntarily, and citizens begin to masquerade their true individual conflict of interest (e.g. devaluation of property; insecurity) with more normative conflict of interest (e.g. protection of nature; protection of culture). Such distorted behaviour remarkably increases at times citizens or communities feel that a policy change is threatening their way of living.\n\nIn the light of the increasing social divisions and democratic disconnection, Putnam and Feldstein (2004) foresaw the importance of creating “bridging social capital”, e.g. ties that link groups across a greater social distance. As the authors elaborate, the creation of robust social capital takes time and effort. It develops largely through extensive and time-consuming face-to-face conversation between two individuals or small groups of people. Only then there is the chance to build the trust and mutual understanding that characterizes the foundation of social capital. In no way, Putnam and Feldstein write, it is possible to create social capital instantaneous, anonymous or en masse. Furthermore, building social capital among people who already share a reservoir of similar cultural referents, ethnicity, personal experience or moral identity etc. is qualitatively different. Homogeneity makes connective strategies easier, however, a society with only homogenous social capital risks looking like Bosnia or Belfast. Hence, bridging social capital is especially important for reconciling democracy and diversity. Yet, bridging social capital among diverse social group is intrinsically less likely to develop automatically.\n\nSociology:\n\nOrganisations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4711894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4711894", "title": "Speedster (fiction)", "text": "Speedster (fiction)\n\nA speedster is a character whose powers primarily relate to superhuman speed (also known as superspeed). Primary abilities shared by all speedsters include running at speeds far in excess of human capability (to varying degrees) and resistance to the side effects (air resistance, inability to breathe, dynamic shock resulting from contact with objects at high speed, etc.) that result from such velocity. In almost all cases, speedsters are able to physically attack opponents by striking them while at high speed to impart huge amounts of kinetic energy without suffering harm, although this has on rare occasion been lampshaded by characters discovering that they cannot do this and suffering severe injury from the attempt. A variety of other powers have been attributed to speedsters depending on the story, the origin of the power, and the established continuity and rules of a given universe.\n\nThe use of speedsters in fiction requires artistic license due to the laws of physics that would prohibit such abilities. Moving at the speed of sound, for example, would create sonic booms that are usually not heard in such stories. An enormous amount of energy would be required to achieve such speeds, and as some speedsters can actually move close to or at the speed of light, this would cause them to gain near-infinite mass, according to the laws of relativity.\n\nFor example, the \"Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe\" states that the character Nova maintains speeds which can be considered \"modest,\" especially when carrying a passenger. The Handbook also concedes that a solid object moving in the Earth’s atmosphere at several times the speed of sound or faster would wreak havoc on the planet and that moving at such speeds would prohibit Northstar from breathing, while the generated wind/friction would ravage his body. On the other hand, the Handbook states that the character Quicksilver was born with adaptations that make higher speeds possible, such as enhanced cardiovascular, respiratory, musculature, and digestive systems, a more efficient metabolism (which has been a weakness for some incarnations of the Flash, calling themselves \"snack holes\"), better lubricated joints, tendons with the tensile strength of spring steel, unidentified bone composition that can withstand the dynamic shock of his touching the ground at speeds over 100 miles an hour, and a brain that can process information fast enough for him to react to his surroundings at high speed.\n\nIn comics published by DC Comics, the Flash family of speedsters derive their abilities from an extradimensional energy source known as the Speed Force, which grants them superspeed and various other abilities required to use it, such as durability. However, the Speed Force is not the source from which other DC characters with superspeed such as Superman or Captain Marvel/Shazam derive their powers.\n\nWriter John Byrne maintained modest abilities for the speedster character Danny Hilltop in his series \"John Byrne’s Next Men\". Although Danny can keep pace with a race car, the friction generated by his speed melts any footwear he wears, burning his feet. Thus he runs barefoot, having toughened the soles of his feet through a regimen of pounding increasingly harder materials (sand, gravel and then broken rock). The costume he wears has a built-in guidance system.\n\nOther writers choose not to offer any scientific explanations for the questions raised by the actual use of such abilities.\n\nComic book writer Peter David, whose run on the series \"Young Justice\" included the junior speedster Impulse, has opined that speedsters are inherently difficult to write, saying:\n\nSome speedsters may also end up destroying their surroundings or entire astronomical structures around them by their sheer speed alone if they are not careful enough. For example, Saitama from \"One-Punch Man\" accidentally destroyed a large portion of the Moon when he jumped back to Earth from it within ten seconds during his battle with Boros.\n\nSpeedsters in other media include Daphne Millbrook (played by Brea Grant), a character in the NBC television superhero drama \"Heroes\". Daphne first appeared in that series' third season in 2008, initially as a villain.\n\nIn addition, many characters exist in other media such as film, video games, anime and manga who possess the abilities to perform feats at incredible speeds that exceed the abilities of those around them. Examples include the video game character Sonic the Hedgehog, and the animated cartoon characters Speedy Gonzales, the Road Runner, Morton of \"Horton Hears A Who!\", several Ben 10 Aliens including XLR8, Jetray, and Fasttrack, (and in one case, Pinkie Pie taking on an alter ego called 'Filisecond' in a comic book universe) from \"\", Saitama, Speed o' Sound Sonic, Flashy Flash and several other characters of \"One-Punch Man\", several Stand users and almost all other characters from \"JoJo's Bizarre Adventure\", Goku, Vegeta, Frieza, Beerus, Whis, Jiren and practically every single character in the entire \"Dragon Ball\" franchise and Dash Parr of \"The Incredibles\". Bree Davenport, the superhero from \"Lab Rats\" is the one the characters depend on to take them to mission sights.\n"}
{"id": "18033223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18033223", "title": "Stencil code", "text": "Stencil code\n\nStencil codes are a class of iterative kernels\nwhich update array elements according to some fixed pattern, called a stencil. \nThey are most commonly found in the codes of computer simulations, e.g. for computational fluid dynamics in the context of scientific and engineering applications. \nOther notable examples include solving partial differential equations, the Jacobi kernel, the Gauss–Seidel method, image processing and cellular automata. \nThe regular structure of the arrays sets stencil codes apart from other modeling methods such as the Finite element method. Most finite difference codes which operate on regular grids can be formulated as stencil codes.\n\nStencil codes perform a sequence of sweeps (called timesteps) through a given array. Generally this is a 2- or 3-dimensional regular grid. The elements of the arrays are often referred to as cells. In each timestep, the stencil code updates all array elements. Using neighboring array elements in a fixed pattern (called the stencil), each cell's new value is computed. In most cases boundary values are left unchanged, but in some cases (e.g. LBM codes) those need to be adjusted during the computation as well. Since the stencil is the same for each element, the pattern of data accesses is repeated.\n\nMore formally, we may define stencil codes as a 5-tuple formula_1 with the following meaning:\n\n\nSince \"I\" is a \"k\"-dimensional integer interval, the array will always have the topology of a finite regular grid. The array is also called simulation space and individual cells are identified by their index formula_8. The stencil is an ordered set of formula_6 relative coordinates. We can now obtain for each cell formula_10 the tuple of its neighbors indices formula_11\n\nTheir states are given by mapping the tuple formula_11 to the corresponding tuple of states formula_14, where formula_15 is defined as follows:\n\nThis is all we need to define the system's state for the following time steps formula_17 with formula_18:\n\nNote that formula_20 is defined on formula_21 and not just on formula_22 since the boundary conditions need to be set, too. Sometimes the elements of formula_11 may be defined by a vector addition modulo the simulation space's dimension to realize toroidal topologies:\n\nThis may be useful for implementing periodic boundary conditions, which simplifies certain physical models.\n\nTo illustrate the formal definition, we'll have a look at how a two dimensional Jacobi iteration can be defined. The update function computes the arithmetic mean of a cell's four neighbors. In this case we set off with an initial solution of 0. The left and right boundary are fixed at 1, while the upper and lower boundaries are set to 0. After a sufficient number of iterations, the system converges against a saddle-shape.\n\nThe shape of the neighborhood used during the updates depends on the application itself. The most common stencils are the 2D or 3D versions of the von Neumann neighborhood and Moore neighborhood. The example above uses a 2D von Neumann stencil while LBM codes generally use its 3D variant. Conway's Game of Life uses the 2D Moore neighborhood. That said, other stencils such as a 25-point stencil for seismic wave propagation can be found, too.\n\nMany simulation codes may be formulated naturally as stencil codes. Since computing time and memory consumption grow linearly with the number of array elements, parallel implementations of stencil codes are of paramount importance to research. \nThis is challenging since the computations are tightly coupled (because of the cell updates depending on neighboring cells) and most stencil codes are memory bound (i.e. the ratio of memory accesses to calculations is high). \nVirtually all current parallel architectures have been explored for executing stencil codes efficiently; \nat the moment GPGPUs have proven to be most efficient.\n\nDue to both the importance of stencil codes to computer simulations and their high computational requirements, there are a number of efforts which aim at creating reusable libraries to support scientists in implementing new stencil codes. The libraries are mostly concerned with the parallelization, but may also tackle other challenges, such as IO, steering and checkpointing. They may be classified by their API.\n\nThis is a traditional design. The library manages a set of \"n\"-dimensional scalar arrays, which the user code may access to perform updates. The library handles the synchronization of the boundaries (dubbed ghost zone or halo). The advantage of this interface is that the user code may loop over the arrays, which makes it easy to integrate legacy codes\n. The disadvantage is that the library can not handle cache blocking (as this has to be done within the loops)\nor wrapping of the code for accelerators (e.g. via CUDA or OpenCL). Notable implementations include Cactus, a physics problem solving environment, and waLBerla.\n\nThese libraries move the interface to updating single simulation cells: only the current cell and its neighbors are exposed to the user code, e.g. via getter/setter methods. The advantage of this approach is that the library can control tightly which cells are updated in which order, which is useful not only to implement cache blocking, \nbut also to run the same code on multi-cores and GPUs. This approach requires the user to recompile the source code together with the library. Otherwise a function call for every cell update would be required, which would seriously impair performance. This is only feasible with techniques such as class templates or metaprogramming, which is also the reason why this design is only found in newer libraries. Examples are Physis and LibGeoDecomp.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "362779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362779", "title": "Swatch Internet Time", "text": "Swatch Internet Time\n\nSwatch Internet Time (or .beat time) is a decimal time concept introduced in 1998 by the Swatch corporation as part of their marketing campaign for their line of \"Beat\" watches.\n\nInstead of hours and minutes, the mean solar day is divided into 1000 parts called \".beats\". Each .beat is equal to one decimal minute in the French Revolutionary decimal time system and lasts 1 minute and 26.4 seconds (86.4 seconds) in standard time. Times are notated as a 3-digit number out of 1000 after midnight. So, @248 would indicate a time 248 .beats after midnight representing 248/1000 of a day, just over 5 hours and 57 minutes.\n\nThere are no time zones in Swatch Internet Time; instead, the new time scale of Biel Meantime (BMT) is used, based on Swatch's headquarters in Biel, Switzerland and equivalent to Central European Time, West Africa Time, and UTC+01. Unlike civil time in Switzerland and many other countries, Swatch Internet Time does not observe daylight saving time.\n\nSwatch Internet Time was announced on October 23, 1998, in a ceremony at the Junior Summit '98, attended by Nicolas G. Hayek, President and CEO of the Swatch Group, G.N. Hayek, President of Swatch Ltd., and Nicholas Negroponte, founder and then-director of the MIT Media Lab. During the Summit, Swatch Internet Time became the official time system for Nation1, an online country (supposedly) created and run by children.\n\nDuring 1999, Swatch produced several models of watch, branded \"Swatch .beat\", that displayed Swatch Internet Time as well as standard time, and even convinced a few websites (such as CNN.com) to use the new format. PHP's date() function has a format specifier 'B' which returns the Swatch Internet Time notation for a given time stamp. It is also used as a time reference on ICQ, and the online role-playing game \"Phantasy Star Online\" has used it since its launch on the Dreamcast in 2000 to try to facilitate cross-continent gaming (as the game allowed Japanese, American and European players to mingle on the same servers). In March 2001, Ericsson released the T20e, a mobile phone which gave the user the option of displaying Internet Time. Outside these areas, it is infrequently used. While Swatch still offers the concept on its website, it no longer markets beat watches. In July 2016, Swatch released Touch Zero Two, its second wirelessly connected watch, with Swatch Internet Time function.\n\nIn early 1999, Swatch began a marketing campaign about the launch of their Beatnik satellite, intended to service a set of Internet Time watches. They were criticized for planning to use an amateur radio frequency for broadcasting a commercial message (an act banned by international treaties). Swatch reallocated the transmitter batteries to a different function on the Mir space station, thus the satellite never broadcast.\n\nThe concept was touted as an alternative, decimal measure of time. One of the supposed goals was to simplify the way people in different time zones communicate about time, mostly by eliminating time zones altogether.\n\nInstead of hours and minutes, the mean solar day is divided into 1,000 parts called \".beats\". Each .beat lasts 1 minute and 26.4 seconds. One .beat is equal to one decimal minute in French decimal time.\n\nAlthough Swatch does not specify units smaller than one .beat, third party implementations have extended the standard by adding \"centibeats\" or \"sub-beats\", for extended precision: @248.00. Each \"centibeat\" is a hundredth of a .beat and is therefore equal to one French decimal second (0.864 seconds).\n\nThere are no time zones; instead, the new time scale of Biel Meantime (BMT) is used, based on the company's headquarters in Biel, Switzerland. Despite the name, BMT does not refer to mean solar time at the Biel meridian (7°15′E), but to the standard time there. It is equivalent to the Central European Time and West Africa Time or UTC+1.\n\nLike UTC, Swatch Internet Time is the same throughout the world. For example, when the time is 875 .beats, or @875, in New York, it is also @875 in Tokyo: 0.875 × 24 hours = 21:00 BMT = 20:00 UTC. Unlike civil time in most European countries, Internet Time does not observe daylight saving time and thus it matches Central European Time during (European) winter and Western European Summer Time, which is observed by the United Kingdom, Ireland, Portugal and the Canary Islands (Spain), during summer.\n\nThe most distinctive aspect of Swatch Internet Time is its notation; as an example, \"@248\" would indicate a time 248 .beats after midnight, equivalent to a fractional day of 0.248 CET, or 04:57:07.2 UTC. No explicit format was provided for dates, although the Swatch website formerly displayed the Gregorian calendar date in the order day-month-year, separated by periods and prefixed by the letter \"d\" (d31.01.99).\n\nNote that units smaller than 1 .beat are not officially recognized by the standard.\n\nThe formula for calculating the current time in .beats from UTC+1 is:\n\nRound down the outcome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "433468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433468", "title": "Temperance (virtue)", "text": "Temperance (virtue)\n\nTemperance is defined as moderation or voluntary self-restraint. It is typically described in terms of what an individual voluntarily refrains from doing. This includes restraint from retaliation in the form of non-violence and forgiveness, restraint from arrogance in the form of humility and modesty, restraint from excesses such as splurging now in the form of prudence, and restraint from excessive anger or craving for something in the form of calmness and self-control.\n\nTemperance has been described as a virtue by religious thinkers, philosophers, and more recently, psychologists, particularly in the positive psychology movement. In classical iconography, the virtue is often depicted as a woman holding two vessels transferring water from one to another. It was one of the cardinal virtues in western thought found in Greek philosophy and Christianity, as well as eastern traditions such as Buddhism and Hinduism. \n\nTemperance is one of the six virtues in the positive psychology classification, included with wisdom, courage, humanity, justice, and transcendence. It is generally characterized as the control over excess, and expressed through characteristics such as chastity, modesty, humility, self-regulation, forgiveness and mercy; each of these involves restraining an excess of some impulse, such as sexual desire, vanity, or anger.\n\nThe term \"temperance\" can also refer to the abstention from alcohol (teetotalism), especially with reference to the temperance movement.\n\nThe Greek definition of temperance translates to \"moderation in action, thought, or feeling; restraint\". Temperance is a major Athenian virtue, as advocated by Plato; self-restraint (sôphrosune) is one of his four core virtues of the ideal city, and echoed by Aristotle. According to Aristotle, \"temperance is a mean with regard to pleasures\". In \"Charmides\", one of Plato's early dialogues, the one who possessed 'sophrosune' is defined in four ways: (1) one who has quietness, (2) one who has modesty, (3) one who does his own business, and (4) one who knows himself. Plato quickly dismisses the three first definitions and argues against (4) that if 'sophrosune' would have been only the property of knowing what one knows or not, then it would be useless without knowledge about other matters.\n\nThemes of temperance can be seen across cultures and time, as illustrated here.\n\nTemperance is an essential part of the Eightfold Path. The third and fifth of the five precepts (pañca-sila) reflect values of temperance: \"misconduct concerning sense pleasures\" and drunkenness are to be avoided.\n\nIn the Judeo-Christian tradition, temperance is prolific. The Old Testament emphasizes temperance as a core virtue, as evidenced in both Solomon's Book of Proverbs and in the Ten Commandments, with its admonitions against adultery and covetousness. The New Testament does so as well, with forgiveness being central to theology and self-control being one of the Fruits of the Spirit. With regard to Christian theology, the word temperance is used by the King James Version in Galatians 5:23 for the Greek word ἐγκρατεία (enkrateia), which means self-control or discipline (\"Strong's Concordance\", 1466). Thomas Aquinas promoted Plato's original virtues in addition to several others.\n\nWithin the Christian church Temperance is a virtue akin to self-control. It is applied to all areas of life. It can especially be viewed in practice among sects like the Amish, Old Order Mennonites, and Conservative Mennonites. In the Christian religion, temperance is a virtue that moderates attraction and desire for pleasure and \"provides balance in the use of created goods\". St. Thomas calls it a \"disposition of the mind which binds the passions\". Temperance is believed to combat the sin of gluttony. Temperance is commonly broken down into four main strengths: forgiveness, humility, prudence, and self-regulation.\n\nThe concept of \"dama\" () in Hinduism is equivalent to temperance. It is sometimes written as \"damah\" (Sanskrit: दमः). The word \"dama\", and Sanskrit derivative words based on it, connote the concepts of self-control and self-restraint. Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, in verse 5.2.3, states that three characteristics of a good, developed person are self-restraint (damah), compassion and love for all sentient life (daya), and charity (daana). In Hinduism literature dedicated to yoga, self-restraint is expounded with the concept of \"yamas\" (). According to \"ṣaṭsampad\", self-restraint (\"dama\") is one of the six cardinal virtues.\n\nThe list of virtues that constitute a moral life evolve in vedas and upanishads. Over time, new virtues were conceptualized and added, some replaced, others merged. For example, Manusamhita initially listed ten virtues necessary for a human being to live a \"dharmic\" (moral) life: \"Dhriti\" (courage), \"Kshama\" (forgiveness), \"Dama\" (temperance), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (purity), \"Indriyani-graha\" (control of senses), \"dhi\" (reflective prudence), \"vidya\" (wisdom), \"satyam\" (truthfulness), \"akrodha\" (free from anger). In later verses this list was reduced to five virtues by the same scholar, by merging and creating a more broader concept. The shorter list of virtues became: \"Ahimsa\" (Non-violence), \"Dama\" (temperance), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (purity), \"Satyam\" (truthfulness). This trend of evolving concepts continue in classical Sanskrit literature, \"Dama\" with \"Ahimsa\" and few other virtues present in the evolving list of virtues necessary for a moral life (\"dharma\").\n\nFive types of self-restraints are considered essential for a moral and ethical life in Hindu philosophy: one must refrain from any violence that causes injury to others, refrain from starting or propagating deceit and falsehood, refrain from theft of other's property, refrain from sexually cheating on one's partner, and refrain from avarice. The scope of self-restraint includes one's action, the words one speaks or writes, and in one's thoughts. The necessity for temperance is explained as preventing bad \"karma\" which sooner or later haunts and returns to the unrestrained. The theological need for self-restraint is also explained as reigning in the damaging effect of one's action on others, as hurting another is hurting oneself because all life is one.\n\nTemperance in Jainism is deeply imbibed in its five major vows which are:\n\nIn Jainism, the vow of Ahimsa is not just restricted to not resorting to physical violence, but it also encompasses in itself abstinence from violence in any and all form either by thought, speech or action.\n\nOn Samvatsari, the last day of Paryushan—the most prominent festival of Jainism—the Jains greet their friends and relatives on this last day with \"Micchāmi Dukkaḍaṃ\", seeking their forgiveness. The phrase is also used by Jains throughout the year when a person makes a mistake, or recollects making one in everyday life, or when asking for forgiveness in advance for inadvertent ones.\n\nValues of temperance are still advocated by more modern sources such as the Boy Scouts, William Bennett, and Ben Franklin. Philosophy has contributed a number of lessons to the study of traits, particularly in its study of injunctions and its listing and organizing of virtues.\n\n"}
{"id": "11490492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11490492", "title": "Ten Rules for Air Fighting", "text": "Ten Rules for Air Fighting\n\nAdolph Gysbert Malan DSO & Bar DFC (24 March 1910 – 17 September 1963), better known as Sailor Malan, was a South African World War II fighter pilot who led No. 74 Squadron RAF during the height of the Battle of Britain. Malan developed a set of simple rules for fighter pilots, which eventually could be found throughout RAF Fighter Command:\n\n\"TEN OF MY RULES FOR AIR FIGHTING\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11203963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11203963", "title": "Thubten Jigme Norbu", "text": "Thubten Jigme Norbu\n\nThubten Jigme Norbu () (August 16, 1922 – September 5, 2008), recognised as the Taktser Rinpoche, was a Tibetan lama, writer, civil rights activist and professor of Tibetan studies and is the eldest brother of the 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso. He was one of the first high-profile Tibetans to go into exile and was the first Tibetan to settle in the United States.\n\nThubten Jigme Norbu was born in 1922 in the small, mountain village of Taktser in the Amdo County of Eastern Tibet. At the age of three, he was recognized by the 13th Dalai Lama as the 24th incarnation of Taktser Rinpoche. At the age of eight, he was taken to Kumbum Monastery in Amdo, the birthplace of Je Tsongkhapa who is the founder of the Gelug sect of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nHistorically, Kumbum was also the frequent residence of previous Dalai Lamas and Panchen Lamas. At Kumbum, Norbu began his training as a monk. At the age of 27, he was selected to serve as the abbot of Kumbum Monastery. At this time, Kumbum was one of the largest monasteries in Eastern Tibet.\n\nKumbum, however was one of the first areas to be invaded by the army of the People's Republic of China (PRC). The PRC held Norbu under house arrest in the monastery, sleeping in his room and following him 24 hours a day. The PRC demanded that he travel to Lhasa, denounce the Tibetan government, and denounce his younger brother the Dalai Lama, who was then about 15 years old. Norbu pretended to agree with the PRC's demands and, as a result, was able to reach Lhasa to warn his brother of the seriousness of the Chinese invasion.\n\nNorbu decided in 1950 that he would leave Tibet and attempt to educate the world about the atrocities in Tibet and the actions of the PRC.\n\nAfter leaving Tibet, Norbu worked continually for Tibet and the Tibetans in exile. He served as the Representative of the Dalai Lama and the Central Tibetan Administration to Japan and North America. He also served as Professor of Tibetan Studies at Indiana University Bloomington. He wrote a number of books, including, in 1959, his autobiography, \"Tibet Is My Country\" as told to Heinrich Harrer and in 1968 \"Tibet: Its History, Religion and People\", with Colin Turnbull. During the years, Norbu frequently lectured about the Tibetan situation at seminars throughout the world.\n\nIn 1979, Rinpoche founded the Tibetan Cultural Center (TCC) in Bloomington, a center devoted to preserving Tibetan culture and religion. In 1989, Colin Turnbull came and participated in the building of Tibetan Cultural Center with him. The facility, renamed the Tibetan-Mongolian Buddhist Cultural Center (or TMBCC) in 2006, has a Cultural Building, housing Tibetan works of art such as a Medicine Buddha sand mandala, and Tibetan butter sculptures. The Cultural Building also has a library of Tibetan-related works and a gift shop where visitors may purchase articles made by Tibetan refugees in exile.\n\nHis brother the Dalai Lama has visited the TMBCC on five separate occasions. In 1987, he dedicated the Changchub Chorten; in 1996 the Dalai Lama consecrated the cornerstone of the Kumbum Chamtse Ling Temple; in 1999, he was at the Center for 12 days when he gave the Kalachakra Initiation for World Peace and Harmony for the Kalachakra stupa; in 2003, the Dalai Lama dedicated the Kumbum Chamtse Ling Temple in an interfaith ceremony; in 2007 he dedicated a new arch at the temple as well as holding a series of classes over six days.\n\nIn 1995, Norbu cofounded the International Tibet Independence Movement (ITIM). He has led three walks for Tibet's independence. In 1995, he led a week-long walk 80 miles from Bloomington, Indiana to Indianapolis, Indiana. In 1996, this was followed by a 300-mile, 45-day walk from the PRC embassy in Washington, DC to the Headquarters of the United Nations, surrounded by New York City. The following year, joined by Dadon with her 3 years old son, he led a 600-mile walk from Toronto to New York City, beginning on March 10 (Tibetan Uprising Day) and ending June 14 (Flag Day). In 1998, ITIM walked for independence starting in Portland, Oregon and ending in Vancouver. In 2000, one arm of ITIM walked from San Francisco and another from San Diego. The two branches met in Los Angeles to greet the Dalai Lama who was giving a teaching and empowerment at Thubten Dhargye Ling.\n\nNorbu lived at the Tibetan-Mongolian Buddhist Cultural Center with his wife Kunyang. They have three sons, Lhundrup, Kunga and Jigme Norbu, all born in New York. In late 2002, Norbu suffered a series of strokes and became an invalid. In 2005, the Dalai Lama appointed the 8th Arjia Rinpoche, another former abbot of Kumbum Monastery, to take over the directorship of the Tibetan-Mongolian Buddhist Cultural Center. Norbu remained until his death part of the daily life of the TMBCC where he was acclaimed as the founder of the facility and the foremost proponent in the world for the recognition and preservation of the culture of Tibet.\n\nNorbu died at the age of 86 on September 5, 2008 at his home in Indiana in the United States having been ill for several years. His body was cremated in a traditional Buddhist ceremony. His youngest son, Jigme, died at the age of 45 on February 14, 2011 while carrying on his father's work. He was hit by a car in Florida during a walk to promote Tibetan independence and raise awareness of Tibet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4297575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4297575", "title": "Thumos", "text": "Thumos\n\nThumos (also commonly spelled \"thymos\"; ) is a Greek word expressing the concept of \"spiritedness\" (as in \"spirited stallion\" or \"spirited debate\"). The word indicates a physical association with breath or blood and is also used to express the human desire for recognition.\n\nIn Homer's works, \"thumos\" was used to denote emotions, desire, or an internal urge. \"Thumos\" was a permanent possession of living man, to which his thinking and feeling belonged. When a Homeric hero is under emotional stress, he may externalize his \"thumos\" and converse with or scold it.\n\nPlato's \"Phaedrus\" and his later work \"The Republic\" discuss \"thumos\" as one of the three constituent parts of the human psyche. In the \"Phaedrus\", Plato depicts \"logos\" as a charioteer driving the two horses \"eros\" and \"thumos\" (erotic love and spiritedness are to be guided by logos). In the \"Republic\" (Book IV) soul becomes divided into (See Plato's tripartite theory of soul):.\n\nHowever, the term \"emotion\" is relatively modern. It was introduced into academic discussion as a catch-all term to passions, sentiments and affections.\n\nDemocritus used \"euthymia\" (i.e. \"good thumos\") to refer to a condition in which the soul lives calmly and steadily, being disturbed by no fear, superstition, or other passions. For Democritus euthymia was one of the root aspects the goal of human life.\n\n\n\"Megalothymia\" refers to the need to be recognized as superior to others, while \"isothymia\" is the need to be recognized as merely equal to others. Both terms are neoclassical compounds, coined by Francis Fukuyama. \n\nIn his book \"The End of History and the Last Man\", the author mentions \"thymos\" in relation to liberal democracy and recognition. He relates Socrates' ideas about \"Thymos\" and desire to how people want to be recognized within their government. Problems emerge when other people do not recognize another's \"Thymos\", and therefore do not provide the justice that it requires. In order for people to exist in harmony, Fukuyama argues, \"isothymia\" rather than \"megalothymia\" must be used to satisfy the human need for recognition. Any system that creates political inequality is necessarily feeding the \"megalothymia\" of some members while denying it to others.\n\nFukuyama explains how \"Thymos\" relates to history with the example of anti-communism in relation to the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, and China. He states, \"We cannot understand the totality of the revolutionary phenomenon unless we appreciate the working of thymotic anger and the demand for recognition that accompanied communism's economic crisis.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "856265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=856265", "title": "Tripartite classification of authority", "text": "Tripartite classification of authority\n\nMax Weber distinguished three ideal types of legitimate political leadership, domination and authority. He wrote about these three types of domination in both his essay \"The Three Types of Legitimate Rule\" which was published in his masterwork \"Economy and Society\" (see Weber 1922/1978:215-216), and in his classic speech \"Politics as a Vocation\" (see Weber 1919/2015:137-138).\n\nThese three types are ideal types and rarely appear in their pure form.\n\nAccording to Weber, authority is power accepted as legitimate by those subjected to it. These three forms of authority are said to appear in an \"hierarchical development order\". States progress from \"charismatic authority\", to \"traditional authority\", and finally reach the \"state of rational-legal authority\" which is characteristic of a modern liberal democracy.\n\nCharismatic authority grows out of the personal charm or the strength of an individual personality. It was described by Weber in a lecture as \"the authority of the extraordinary and personal gift of grace (charisma)\"; he distinguished it from the other forms of authority by stating \"Men do not obey him [the charismatic ruler] by virtue of tradition or statute, but because they believe in him.\" Thus the actual power or capabilities of the leader are irrelevant, as long as the followers believe that such power exists. Thus, according to Weber, it is particularly difficult for charismatic leaders to maintain their authority because the followers must continue to legitimize the authority of the leader.\n\nCharismatic domination is insofar different from legal-rational and traditional power as it does not develop from established tradition but rather from the belief the followers have in the leader.\n\nAccording to Weber, once the leader loses his charisma or dies, systems based on charismatic authority tend to transform into traditional or legal-rational systems.\n\nIn traditional authority, the legitimacy of the authority comes from tradition or custom; Weber described it as \"the authority of the eternal yesterday\" and identified it as the source of authority for monarchies. In this type of domination, the traditional rights of a powerful individual or group are accepted by the subordinate, or at least not challenged. The dominant individual could be a clan leader, eldest, the head of a family, a patriarchal figure or dominant elite. Historically this has been the most common type of government.\n\nAccording to Weber, inequalities are created and preserved by traditional authority. Should this authority not be challenged, the dominant leader or group will stay in power. For Weber, traditional power blocked the development of rational-legal authority.\n\nLegal authority, also known as rational-legal authority, is where an individual or institution exerts power by virtue of the legal office that they hold. It is the authority that demands obedience to the office rather than the officeholder; once they leave office, their rational-legal authority is lost. Weber identified \"rationally-created rules\" as the central feature of this form of authority. Modern democracies contain many examples of legal-rational regimes. There are different ways in which legal authority can develop. Many societies have developed a system of laws and regulations and there exist many different principles of legality. With the development of a legal-rational system, the political system is likely to be rationalized similarly. Constitutions, written documents, established offices and regular elections are often associated with modern legal-rational political systems. These in the past have tended to develop in opposition to earlier traditional systems such as monarchies, where the set of rules are not well developed. As these systems develop in a rational manner, authority takes on a legal-rational form. Those who govern have the legitimate legal right to do so and those subordinated accept the legality of the rulers.\n\nAlbeit rational-legal authority may be challenged by those subordinated, it is unlikely to result in a quick change in the nature of the system. Such power struggles, according to Weber, are mostly political struggles and may be based on nationalism or ethnicity.\n\nWeber also notes that legal domination is the most advanced, and that societies evolve from having mostly traditional and charismatic authorities to mostly rational and legal ones, because the instability of charismatic authority inevitably forces it to \"routinize\" into a more structured form of authority. Likewise he notes that in a pure type of traditional rule, sufficient resistance to a master can lead to a \"traditional revolution\". Thus he alludes to an inevitable move towards a rational-legal structure of authority, utilizing a bureaucratic structure. This ties to his broader concept of rationalization by suggesting the inevitability of a move in this direction. Thus this theory can be sometimes viewed as part of the social evolutionism theory.\n\nIn traditional authority, the legitimacy of the authority comes from tradition, in charismatic authority from the personality and leadership qualities of the individual (charisma), and in legal (or rational-legal) authority from powers that are bureaucratically and legally attached to certain positions. A classic example of these three types may be found in religion: priests (traditional), Jesus (charismatic), and the Roman Catholic Church (legal-rational). Weber also conceived of these three types within his three primary modes of conflict: traditional authority within status groups, charismatic authority within class, and legal-rational authority within party organizations.\n\nIn his view every historical relation between rulers and ruled contained elements that can be analyzed on the basis of the above distinction.\n\n\nWeber, Max (1978/1922). \"Economy and Society\", edited by Guenther Roth and Claus Wittich. Berkeley: University of California Press.\n\nWeber, Max (2015/1919). \"Politics as Vocation\" in Weber's Rationalism. Edited and Translated by Tony Waters and Dagmar Waters, pp. 129–198.\n"}
{"id": "1696901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1696901", "title": "True Will", "text": "True Will\n\nTrue Will is a term found within the mystical system of Thelema, a magical society founded in 1904 with Aleister Crowley's writing of \"The Book of the Law\". It is defined either as a person's grand destiny in life or as a moment-to-moment path of action that operates in perfect harmony with Nature. True Will does not spring from conscious intent, but from the interplay between the deepest Self and the entire Universe. Thelemites in touch with their True Will are said to have eliminated or bypassed their false desires, conflicts, and habits, and accessed their connection with the divine. Theoretically, at this point, the Thelemite acts in alignment with Nature, just as a stream flows downhill, with neither resistance nor \"lust of result\". Crowley's ideas on the subject partly originated with the teachings of Eliphas Levi, whose magical books emphasize the magician finding their magical identity – his or her 'true self', which Levi referred to as the \"True Will\".\n\nThelema roughly means \"will\" in Greek. The phrase \"True Will\" does not appear in \"The Book of the Law\", the central sacred text of Thelema. Nevertheless, Aleister Crowley's various commentaries on the Book routinely postulate that each individual has a unique and incommensurable True Will that determines his or her proper course in life. Crowley's invention appears to be an attempt to explain how some actions may be wrong (or \"false\") when \"There is no law beyond Do what thou wilt\". Actions that conform to True Will are thus considered to be correct, while willed actions that deviate from True Will may nevertheless be wrong. In \"The Book of the Law\" Crowley wrote \"Do What Thou Wilt\". \n\n\"DO WHAT THOU WILT\" can often be misunderstood to mean \"do what you want\". When one says \"do what thou wilt\", this means that the origin of will directs the path. To understand and act upon one's True Will is a sort of \"enlightenment\" to Thelemites. The ultimate goal of a Thelemite would be to understand and perform their True Will. True Will directs the individual towards destiny and forces them into the joy of accomplishing what they were meant to accomplish without \"lust of result\" (outside motivations).\n\nIn Crowley's essay \"The Secret Conference\" (written under the pseudonym \"Gerald Aumont\", and prefaced to \"The Heart of the Master\"), he suggests that a technique must be devised by which a child's True Will may be discovered at birth, or as early as possible in life, in order to permit the correct ordering of society. \n\nIn Crowley's ethical treatise \"Duty\", he identifies True Will with the Nature of the individual. This capitalized \"Nature\" may be compared with the \"Perfect Nature\" of earlier Gnostic systems, which was another term for the personal daimon or augoeides, usually referenced by Crowley as the Holy Guardian Angel. \n\n\"The Message of the Master Therion\" (Liber II) is a document that attempts to delineate the doctrine of True Will. By reference to \"Liber Thisharb\", Liber II suggests a theory of metempsychosis, whereby the individual True Will is the resultant of a person's prior incarnations. But here as elsewhere, Crowley stops short of asserting objective validity for memories of past lives. He recommends developing \"the magical memory\" as a means to an end, and connecting the aspirant's abilities and remembered past with some purpose. By definition, the aspirant's True Will must fit the aspirant's nature.\n\nIn \"De Lege Libellum\" (Liber CL), Crowley defines True Will as the will which \"does not rest content with things partial and transitory, but...proceed[s] firmly to the End\", and in the same passage he identifies that \"end\" as the destruction of oneself in love.\n\n"}
{"id": "45132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45132", "title": "Truth condition", "text": "Truth condition\n\nIn semantics and pragmatics, a truth condition is the condition under which a sentence is true. For example, \"It is snowing in Nebraska\" is true precisely when it is snowing in Nebraska. Truth conditions of a sentence don't necessarily reflect current reality. They are merely the conditions under which the statement would be true.\n\nMore formally, a truth condition makes for the truth of a sentence in an inductive definition of truth (for details, see the semantic theory of truth). Understood this way, truth conditions are theoretical entities. To illustrate with an example: suppose that, in a particular truth theory which is a theory of truth where truth is somehow made acceptable despite semantic terms as close as possible, the word \"Nixon\" refers to Richard M. Nixon, and \"is alive\" is associated with the set of currently living things. Then one way of representing the truth condition of \"Nixon is alive\" is as the ordered pair <Nixon, {x: x is alive}>. And we say that \"Nixon is alive\" is true if and only if the referent (or referent of) \"Nixon\" belongs to the set associated with \"is alive\", that is, if and only if Nixon is alive.\n\nIn semantics, the truth condition of a sentence is almost universally considered distinct from its meaning. The meaning of a sentence is conveyed if the truth conditions for the sentence are understood. Additionally, there are many sentences that are understood although their truth condition is uncertain. One popular argument for this view is that some sentences are necessarily true — that is, they are true whatever happens to obtain. All such sentences have the same truth conditions, but arguably do not thereby have the same meaning. Likewise, the sets {x: x is alive} and {x: x is alive and x is not a rock} are identical — they have precisely the same members — but presumably the sentences \"Nixon is alive\" and \"Nixon is alive and is not a rock\" have different meanings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38494370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38494370", "title": "Volxkuche", "text": "Volxkuche\n\nVolxKuche/VolxKüche (VoKu/VoKü), peoples kitchen, free supper club or kitchen for all, are names used for a weekly or regularly occurring group cooking event, at which the meal is served free of charge or at cost. The name derives from the German expression \"people's kitchen\" (soup kitchen), as a secular counterpart of the Christian soup kitchen.\n\nVolxküchen are found usually in collective and/or self-managed arrangements (pubs, information stores, youth centers or autonomous centers) with politically left self-identity. In general at least one vegetarian meal is offered, frequently also vegan food. Often soon to be expired ingredients are obtained at cost, or donated by food banks, food manufacturers or community gardens.\n\nThe Volxküche in the current sense arose in the European squatter scene of the early 1980s.\n\nThe spelling of Volxküche occurred as an expression of anti-nationalism. Historically nationalism had used the term \"Volk/Volks\" with negative consequences. This use was a rejection of the negative connotation which had the intention of \"excluding\" many groups of German society. It is at the same time a funny self-willed expression of the anarchistic and/or autonomous scene.\n\nIn the US the word is spelled without an umlaut, and pronounced like \"folks coo heh\". The alternate German spelling Volkskueche (Volksküche) was intentionally not used.\n\nA 'Free Supper Club\" in San Francisco, held twice a month as of 2013, is calling itself \"Volxkuche\". Besides a free dinner, performances, film and community are provided.\n"}
