{"id": "14144629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14144629", "title": "1506 in archaeology", "text": "1506 in archaeology\n\n"}
{"id": "8454198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8454198", "title": "1980 International Conference of Marxist–Leninist Parties and Organisations", "text": "1980 International Conference of Marxist–Leninist Parties and Organisations\n\nIn 1980, an International Conference of Marxist–Leninist Parties and Organisations was organized by communist groups dissatisfied with the new leadership in China after the death of Mao Zedong and the overthrow of the Gang of Four. Participants were:\n\nThe conference constituted a 'Revolutionary International Committee' (precursor to the Revolutionary Internationalist Movement).\n\n"}
{"id": "53353187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53353187", "title": "Alina Payne", "text": "Alina Payne\n\nAlina Payne is Alexander P. Misheff Professor of History of Art and Architecture at Harvard University and the Paul E. Geier Director of Villa I Tatti, the Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies. \nShe graduated from McGill University, and University of Toronto.\nHer work focuses on architecture in the Renaissance, baroque and modern periods. Prior to joining Harvard she taught at Oberlin College and University of Toronto.\n\n"}
{"id": "20911315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20911315", "title": "Ambarawa Railway Museum", "text": "Ambarawa Railway Museum\n\nThe Ambarawa Railway Museum, () is a museum located in Ambarawa in Central Java, Indonesia. The museum focuses on the collection of steam locomotives, the remains of the closing of the railway line.\n\nAmbarawa was a military city during the Dutch Colonial Government. King Willem I ordered the construction of a new railway station to enable the government to transport its troops to Semarang. On May 21, 1873 the Ambarawa railway station was built on a 127,500 m² land. This was known back then as Willem I Station. It was finished at the same time as the Kedungjati-Bringin-Tuntang-Ambarawa line.\n\nThe station building consists of two main building for waiting room and station master room.\n\nThe Willem I Railway Station was originally a transhipment point between the gauge branch from Kedungjati to the northeast and the gauge line onward towards Yogyakarta via Magelang to the south. It is still possible to see that the two sides of the station were built to accommodate different size trains.\n\nOn April 8, 1976, the Ambarawa Railway Station was officially converted into the Ambarawa Railway Museum by the governor of Central Java Province at that time Supardjo Rustam. The museum preserves the steam locomotives, which were then coming to the end of their useful lives when the gauge railways of the Indonesian State Railway (the Perusahaan Negara Kereta Api, PNKA) was closed. These are parked in the open air next to the original station.\n\nIn 2010, the building of Ambarawa Railway Museum was made heritage building.\n\nThe gauge line towards Yogyakarta (runs roughly south-west from Ambarawa) was of particular interest because it contained sections of rack railway between Jambu and Secang, the only such operation in Java. This line beyond Bedono closed in the early 1970s after it was damaged in an earthquake, but had already lost most of its passenger traffic to buses on the parallel road. The line from Kedungjati (runs east initially from Ambarawa) survived into the middle 1970s but saw very little traffic near the end, not least because it was far quicker to travel more directly by road to Semarang. The presence of the rack line meant that there was probably never much through traffic from Semarang to Yogyakarta.\n\nCurrently, there is operating heritage railway between Ambarawa-Bedono, operated by steam locomotive. In addition, there is also tourist railway between Ambarawa-Tuntang.\n\nThe museum collected 21 steam locomotives. Currently four locomotives are operational. Other collections of the museum include old telephones, Morse telegraph equipment, old bells and signals equipment, and some antique furniture.\nSome of the steam locomotives are the 2 B25 class 0-4-2RT B2502 and B2503 which is from the original fleet of 5 supplied to the line about 100 years ago (a third locomotive, B 2501, is preserved in a park in the town nearby). The E10 class 0-10-0RT E1060 which was originally delivered to West Sumatra in the 1960s for working the coal railway, but was brought to Java, later returned again to Sawahlunto, and a conventional locomotive 2-6-0T C1218 which was restored to working order in 2006, but transferred to Solo to working as tourist train, named Sepur Kluthuk Jaladara. The museum also have a small diesel shunter D300 class 0-8-0D D300 23, previously based at Cepu, an old UH-295 crane from Semarang, and the newly restored B51 class 4-4-0 B5112 specially for Ambarawa-Tuntang line. Other locomotive collections are type C1240, C1603, C2821, and CC5029.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32774373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32774373", "title": "Animus (journal)", "text": "Animus (journal)\n\nAnimus is an electronic academic journal of philosophy and the humanities based at the Grenfell Campus, Memorial University of Newfoundland. It was established in 1996 and appears annually. The current editors are Ken Jacobsen, David Peddle, Neil Robertson, Kenneth Kierans, and Eli Diamond. \"Animus\" is abstracted and indexed in the Philosopher's Index.\n\n"}
{"id": "3928709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3928709", "title": "Antigonia (Chaonia)", "text": "Antigonia (Chaonia)\n\nAntigonea (), also transliterated as Antigonia and Antigoneia, was an ancient Greek city in Chaonia, Epirus, and the chief inland city of the ancient Chaonians. It was founded in the 3rd century BC by Pyrrhus of Epirus, who named it after one of his wives, Antigone, daughter of Berenice I and step-daughter of Ptolemy I of Egypt.\n\n\"The straits near Antigoneia\" were mentioned in 230 BC, when a force of Illyrians under Scerdilaidas passed the city to join an invading army further south. In 198 BC, during the Second Macedonian War, the Romans marched against the Macedonian armies of Philip V. His general, Athenagoras, was able to occupy one of the nearby passes, leading to the Romans being held back. Initially the Romans were going to negotiate peace, however, several treasonous sheperds led the Romans to be able to surround and destroy the Macedonian army of 2000 men.\n\nThe inhabitants of Antigoneia had sided with the Macedonians and so when the Romans were victorious over the Macedonians in 167BC. Thus, the Romans decided to punish those who had fought against them. Consul Aemilius Paullus ordered for 70 towns in Epirus to be lit on fire. This included Antigoneia, which was never rebuilt. A newly discovered church, on the floor of which there is a mosaic of Saint Christopher and a Greek emblem, testifying to the city’s existence in the palaeo-Christian period. However it seemed to be the last building constructed in ancient Antigonea, the church was destroyed during Slav assaults in the 6th century AD.\n\nFinds such as a bronze sphinx and a statue of Poseidon, which are exhibited in Tirana. There has also been evidence of pottery found across the hill in which the city was built, attesting to the size of the city at its peak.\n\nIts ruins are located just south of the village of Saraqinisht in the Antigonë municipal unit, Gjirokastër County, Albania. Now that area has been declared a National Archaeological Park by the Albanian Government. The ruins are accessible from Gjirokastër by car or by nature trail. The Archaeological Park is also known for having organized since 2007 a yearly \"Festival of the Pagan Rites and the Popular Games\" (). Recently, the village has hosted an annual culinary exhibition showcasing the best of local organic production and traditional specialties.\n\nThe ancient town was identified and excavated by the Albanian archaeologist Dhimosten Budina. More recently an Albanian-Greek team of archaeologists has been working on the site.\n\nThe most impressive feature of the city are its walls, demolished by the Romans, which completely encircled the hill, which towered at 600 meters above sea level. The most visible gate in the walls is at the south-western portion of the city. In the city center, an entire ancient street is exposed. In the southern end of the city there is also the most well preserved portion of the city walls. The wall section terminates at the small early Christian church of triconch form, whose mosaic floor is decorated with a depiction of a strange illustration of a human with an animal head, resembling the Egyptian god Anubis or Saint Christopher.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47872613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47872613", "title": "Art dans Tout", "text": "Art dans Tout\n\nThe Art dans Tout movement was a French art group which operated from 1896 to 1901. Originally called Les Cinq, because it had five founder members, artist and lace designer Félix Aubert, sculptor and craftsman Alexandre Charpentier, sculptor and medalist Jean Dampt, sculptor and medalist Henry Nocq and architect Charles Plumet, it later changed its name to Les Six when Nocq left the group in 1897, replaced by painter Étienne Moreau-Nélaton and architect and decorator Tony Selmersheim. In 1898, the group expanded further to become Art dans Tout when Carl-Albert Angst, a sculptor and student of Dampt, Jules Desbois, a sculptor, Paul Follot, a furniture designer, Alphonse Hérold, a cabinetmaker, Antoine Jorrand, a painter and tapestry designer, Henri Sauvage, an architect, and Louis Sorrel, an architect and collaborator of Aubert's, joined. The group dissolved in 1901 due to commercial necessity.\n\nThe group's philosophy can be summed up in two concepts, that the form of a work of art should always fit its function and be artistic, and that the material the work is made from should always reflect the purpose of the object and the nature of the material.\n\nWith the rise of machine production, the cost of producing object d'art and house decorations fell. In France, as around the rest of Europe, differing philosophies arose as to how to produce beautiful household objects and furniture for the masses, not just for the rich, following the philosophy of Eugène-Émmanuel Viollet-le-Duc. Followers of Viollet-le-Duc believed that banal, mediocre interiors had a negative effect on the development, morality and intellect of people who lived in them. Various attempts at collaborations between artists and industries that produced these items occurred. In France, these attempts had mostly ended in failure. Several of the artists in the group worked in a style that was part of the larger Art Nouveau style. The group was part of a tentative but determined attempt to break down the barriers between art, industry and everyday life.\n\nNocq in his role as art critic wrote an article on improvements in street design seen in England and Belgium, and encouraged France to follow their lead.\n\nLes Cinq originally came together in Autumn 1896, meeting in Charpentier's workshop on Sunday afternoons. Their first exhibition was held from December 1896 - January 1897 at the Galerie des Artistes Modern. In their preface to the exhibition catalogue of the first exhibition, the group set forth their philosophy of bringing together the major arts (painting, sculpture and architecture) and the minor arts (ceramics, furniture and decorative objects), and to produce objects that served both functional and decorative purposes. They also exhibited a furnished boudoir for the Salon de la Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts. In this room, Aubert designed the wall-hangings, curtains, carpet and fabric decorations, Charpentier the window-sash bolt and bottle-stoppers and Plumet, the dressing table, chair, shelf-unit, glass display case and the structure of the screens.\n\nIn December 1897, the group enlarged to become Les Six. In their 1897-1898 exhibition, Aubert and Charpentier designed a bathroom with the decorator Eugène Simas, which fulfilled the group's ideals of bringing beauty to an object that served a functional purpose, and was also part of an industrial collaboration, with the Sarreguemines factory.\n\nThe group expanded further in 1898 to include members that could not always attend the Sunday meetings. The group planned to construct and furnish an entire house for the 1900 International Exhibition in Paris, but could not accomplish this due to a lack of funding. An Aubert and Charpentier-designed bedroom (for Prince Alexandre de Chimay and his wife) was part of the group's 1899 exhibition at the Galerie des Artistes Modern. Members of the group collaborated with Léon Benoville and Édmond Socard in designing the interiors of other Parisian houses. Sorrel designed a pavilion for the International Exhibition of 1900 which Aubert decorated.\n\nAlthough the group disbanded in 1901 due to financial issues, and an inability to convince major furniture manufacturers to use their designs, several group members continued to collaborate, notably Plumet and Selmersheim.\n\n"}
{"id": "28437065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28437065", "title": "Atheism dispute", "text": "Atheism dispute\n\nThe atheism dispute () was an event in German cultural history that lasted between 1798–1800 which had an effect on the German philosophy of the late eighteenth and early nineteenth century.\n\nIn 1798, Johann Gottlieb Fichte was accused of atheism after publishing that year his essay \"Ueber den Grund unsers Glaubens an eine göttliche Weltregierung\" (\"On the Ground of Our Belief in a Divine World-Governance\") which he had written in response to Friedrich Karl Forberg's essay \"Development of the Concept of Religion\" in his \"Philosophical Journal\". Forberg had claimed that unbelievers could be moral if they act as if an all-seeing and punishing God exists. In his brief essay, Fichte attempted to sketch some of his preliminary ideas on philosophy of religion formulated within his \"Wissenschaftslehre\" (doctrine of science). He characterized God as the living moral order of the world.\n\n“On the Ground of Our Belief in a Divine World-Governance” provoked the publication of an anonymous essay that accused both Fichte and Forberg of atheism and called for Fichte's dismissal from his post at the University of Jena. In the wake of the dispute, many essays were published in defense and against Fichte, as well as defense by Fichte himself. Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi eventually published his famous open letter to Fichte, which saw the first use of the word nihilism, and in which he equated philosophy in general and Fichte's transcendental philosophy in particular with \"nihilism.\"\n\nThis dispute caused German authorities to suppress the original essay as well as threaten the University of Jena itself with preventing enrollment. Fichte was forced to resign his position at Jena and to flee to Berlin as a result of previously made statements in which he threatened to resign if he were subjected to official government reprimand.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28897449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28897449", "title": "Bacha posh", "text": "Bacha posh\n\nBacha posh (, literally \"dressed up as a boy\") is a cultural practice in parts of Afghanistan and Pakistan, in which some families without sons will pick a daughter to live and behave as a boy. This enables the child to behave more freely: attending school, escorting her sisters in public, and working. Bacha posh also allows the family to avoid the social stigma associated of not having any male children.\n\nThe custom is documented at least one century ago, but is likely to be much older, and is still practiced today.\nIt may have started with women disguising themselves as men to fight, or to be protected, during periods of wartime.\n\nHistorian Nancy Dupree told a reporter from \"The New York Times\" that she recalled a photograph dating back to the early 1900s during the reign of Habibullah Khan in which women dressed as men guarded the king's harem, because officially, the harem could be guarded by neither women nor men. \"Segregation calls for creativity,\" she said, \"These people have the most amazing coping capability.\"\n\nIn Afghanistan and Pakistan, there is societal pressure for families to have a son to carry on the family name and to inherit the father's property. In the absence of a son, families may dress one of their daughters as a male, with some adhering to the belief that having a bacha posh will make it more likely for a mother to give birth to a son in a subsequent pregnancy.\n\nA girl living as a boy will dress in characteristic male clothing, have her hair cut short, and use a male name. The purpose of the practice is not deception and many people, such as teachers or family friends, will be aware that the child is actually a girl. In her family, she will occupy an intermediate status in which she is treated as neither a daughter nor fully as a son, but she will not need to cook or clean like other girls. As a \"bacha posh\", a girl is more readily able to attend school, run errands, move freely in public, escort her sisters in places where they could not be without a male companion, play sports and find work.\n\nThe girl's status as a \"bacha posh\" usually ends when she enters puberty. Women raised as a \"bacha posh\" often have difficulty making the transition from life as a boy and adapting to the traditional constraints placed on women in Afghan society.\n\nAzita Rafaat, a legislator elected to the National Assembly of Afghanistan to represent Badghis Province, has had no sons and has raised one of her daughters as a \"bacha posh\". She said she understood that \"it's very hard for you to believe why one mother is doing these things to their youngest daughter\", and that \"things are happening in Afghanistan that are really not imaginable for you as a Western people.\"\n\n\"Osama\", the 2003 film made in Afghanistan written and directed by Siddiq Barmak, tells the story of a young girl in Afghanistan under Taliban rule who disguises herself as a boy, Osama, in order to support her family, as her father and uncle had both been killed during the Soviet war in Afghanistan and she and her mother would not be able to travel on their own without a male \"legal companion\".\n\nThe practice of bacha posh is said to be growing in prevalence. It is widely accepted, and is seen as a reasonable solution to the problem of not having a boy in the family. As far as experts can tell, the practice is fairly common, but due to its nature and poor government record-keeping, it is unclear just how many bacha posh there are.\n\nDevelopmental and clinical psychologist Diane Ehrensaft theorizes that, by behaving like boys, the bacha posh are not expressing their true gender identity, but simply conforming to parents' hopes and expectations. She cites parents offering their daughters privileges girls otherwise wouldn't get, such as the chance to cycle and to play soccer and cricket, as well as bacha posh complaining that they aren't comfortable around boys, and would rather live as a girl.\n\nAfter having lived as bacha posh for some time though, most find it hard to socialize again with girls because they have become comfortable with socializing with boys, since that is what they grew up doing. Elaha, who was a bacha posh for twenty years, but switched back to being a girl when she entered university, told the BBC that she switched back only because of traditions of society. The reason it is so hard for bacha posh to change back to being girls is because they are boys when they are supposed to be developing their personalities, so they develop boyish personalities because that is what they are taught. Some bacha posh feel as if they have lost essential childhood memories and their identities as girls. Others feel that it was good they got to experience the freedoms that they would not have had if they had been normal girls growing up in Afghanistan. The change itself can also be very hard as most, if not all, rights and privileges of the \"boys\" are taken away when they are transitioned back into a women's role. Many women do not want to go back once they have experienced freedom as a boy.\n\nThe heart of the controversy over this practice, in terms of the recent movement for Afghan women's rights, is whether the practice of bacha posh empowers women and helps them succeed or if the practice is psychologically damaging. Many of the women who have gone through the process say they feel that the experience was empowering as well as smothering. The true problem, activists say, is not the practice itself, but women’s rights in that society.\n\nWhen bacha posh are of marriageable age (around 17-18, sometimes sooner) they are usually switched back to girls, though in rare cases it can occur even later. Often this change occurs when they are forced to marry someone chosen by their parents. Many bacha posh do not want to get married because they feel that once married they will be repressed and even abused by their husbands and society. This fear of repression is not unfounded, as Afghan culture places men over women in their hierarchy. Furthermore, since the bacha posh are classed as boys when growing up, they do not learn what women typically learn when they are young, like cooking, sewing and other household chores. This makes married life hard for them because they do not know how to do the essential things that they are expected to know.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25314055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25314055", "title": "Balberta", "text": "Balberta\n\nBalberta is a major Mesoamerican archaeological site on the Pacific coastal plain of southern Guatemala, belonging to the Maya civilization. It has been dated to the Early Classic period and is the only known major site on the Guatemalan Pacific coastal plain to have exposed Early Classic architecture that has not been buried under posterior Late Classic construction. The site was related to the nearby site of San Antonio, which lies to the west.\n\nBalberta first appears to have been occupied in the Late Preclassic period, when it was a small site of minor importance. After a period of rapid growth it became one of the largest Early Classic sites on the Guatemalan Pacific coast and reached the height of its power between AD 200 and AD 400, after which it rapidly declined and was replaced by a new capital at the nearby site of Montana. It traded with the distant metropolis of Teotihuacan in the Valley of Mexico, with other recovered artifacts having their origin on the Gulf coast of Mexico. Cacao was probably one of the city's main exports, being a particularly valued perishable product in Mesoamerica. At its height Balberta demonstrated true state-level political organisation and dominated a wide swathe of the Guatemalan coast. Balberta was suddenly abandoned around AD 400.\n\nBalberta is located in the municipality of La Democracia in the department of Escuintla, approximately equidistant between the La Gomera and Achiguate rivers flowing down from the Guatemalan Highlands and about from the coast and southeast of the contemporary site of Kaminaljuyu. Balberta lies at an altitude of above mean sea level on a flat coastal plain with a width of approximately . The soils of the plain are sandy sedimentary deposits, they are fertile and well-drained, supporting tropical vegetation and suitable for the cultivation of a variety of crops. The site lies on the lands of four plantations, the Santa Rita, San Carlos, Santa Mónica and San Patricio plantations, with the majority of the site occupying the first three of these. The plantations are dedicated to the cultivation of sugarcane, with the exception of the Santa Mónica plantation, which grows cotton and maize, depending on the season.\n\nThe entire area is crossed by north-south water-courses and there are some low-lying areas that form stagnant marshes in the wet season. The local topography is subject to constant change due to the seasonal flooding of the Achiguate River.\n\nObsidian recovered at Balberta was brought over long distances from central Mexico, with its origins at the Zaragoza source in Puebla state and the Pachuca source in Hidalgo, near to Teotihuacan itself. In fact the concentrations of green Pachuca obsidian are the highest recorded in Guatemala in the Early Classic. Most of the obsidian artifacts were associated with caches of ceramic vessels that contained ceramic effigies of cacao beans, all found within the site core and also containing small quantities of ceramics imported from Puebla in central Mexico. Although there is evidence that the site's wealth can be attributed at least in part to its far flung trade, there is no evidence that Teotihuacan directly intervened in order to found Balberta as a polity.\n\nPachuca obsidian from Balberta and the surrounding area represents the earliest evidence of contact with central Mexico in the region and its association with ceramic effigies of cacao probably marks the beginning of trade relations with Teotihuacan. Investigators have speculated that the cacao effigies and associated Pachuca obsidian may have been offerings to celebrate a trade agreement between the two cities, with cacao likely to have been the product being exported from Balberta.\n\nAs Teotihuacan became the dominant power in the Mesoamerican cultural region, the rulers of Balberta probably used their trade with central Mexico to gain an economic and military advantage over its own immediate neighbours and it is notable that the major city of Kaminaljuyu in the nearby Guatemalan Highlands showed a marked decline in wealth and population during the period of Balberta's zenith from AD 200 to AD 400.\n\nTen green Pachuca obsidian projectile points have been recovered from the Balberta site core, half of them from the area containing the ceremonial architecture and the rest from other ritual contexts or residential areas and all are in a pure Teotihuacan style. Pachuca obsidian and the associated ceramics have been dated to the period from AD 150 to AD 275, roughly contemporaneous with the Temple of the Feathered Serpent at Teotihuacan and the last period of construction of the Pyramid of the Moon.\n\nThe evidence from Balberta suggests that Teotihuacanos were physically present in the Balberta area for reasons of trade. At first Teotihuacan was attracted to the region in order to acquire exotic goods such as cacao, with commercial agreements benefiting Balberta. However, Teotihuacan eventually became more aggressive, resulting in the collapse of its former trading partner.\n\nThe fall of Balberta as a major centre may be attributed to a change in the external politics of Teotihuacan as it became a more aggressive player on the Mesoamerican stage and began to intervene directly in the Maya area, such as at Tikal. Teotihuacan appears to have founded Montana as a direct colony in the region, undermining Balberta's power and influence and leading to its decline. It has been suggested that the new Teotihuacan-controlled Montana polity engaged in expansionist warfare that resulted in the abrupt collapse of the Balberta state.\n\nBalberta was a fortified site controlling a wide area, which it probably came to dominate through a process of aggressive warfare. The site has been investigated extensively by Frederick J. Bove. The centre of the site consists of a number of mounds built upon a large platform. The architectural style of the site shows a continuation of local tradition consisting of plazas with aligned structures that dates as far back as the Middle Preclassic, with some adaptation to the changing political situation in the region which necessitated the construction of defenses around the site core. The site core consists of 22 structures occupying an area of .\n\nThe site core was defended by a wall starting at the southwest corner of Structure 1, surrounding the Mound Plaza on three sides, standing from tall. Additionally, a deep ditch marks the east side of the site core, formed by redirecting a natural watercourse.\n\nA wide causeway started near Structure 3 and ran eastwards to a group of small structures.\n\nFour projectile points were recovered from the Balberta site core that were fashioned from grey obsidian originating in central Mexico, three from Zaragoza in Puebla and one from Otumba in Mexico State. A number of burials at the site had small jade beads placed inside the mouth of the interred individual. More than 400 ceramic effigies of cocoa beans have been recovered during archaeological excavations of the site core.\n\nArchaeologists have recovered 124 pieces of green obsidian from the site, most of which were blade fragments. The majority of the green obsidian artifacts were found in Structure 1, with 65% of them being contained in four caches in the structure.\n\nDuring investigations carried out between 1984 and 1987, 26 burials were excavated, of which 23 were found under domestic structures. 24 of the burials were oriented east-west with the skull towards the west; the remaining 2 burials were oriented north-south with the skull to the north. The majority of the burials were covered with red pigment.\n\nThe Mound Plaza is a high platform measuring supporting 16 structures arranged in five rows. The westernmost row of structures is the only row containing Terminal Preclassic material in its fill, for which reason it is considered to be the original area of occupation at Balberta. This row consists of four structures; the rest consist of three structures each.\n\nStructure 1 or the Great Platform is found immediately to the north of the Mound Plaza. It has sloping sides and a very wide upper surface. It underwent three main phases of construction. The earliest version of the structure consisted of a low platform of compacted clay, only high. Its exact dimensions are unknown but it was not as large as in the later phases. The second phase involved a major construction effort, the platform being expanded to in height and covering almost the same surface area as the final version of the platform. This final version was built up by using layers of compacted clay separated by thin layers of sand and soft clay. The final dimensions of the platform were , divided between two levels known as the Low Platform and the High Platform, the higher level being high and the lower part being high. The higher section of the platform consists of of fill deposited in a single construction phase. It is topped by various low mounds that have been identified as elite residences. The lower section was non-residential in nature although elite burials were discovered as well as ceremonial offerings. One of these elite burials was accompanied by a green obsidian projectile point, a black obsidian spear point, ceramic earspools, an urn, a spindle whirl and a ceramic bowl.\n\nStructure 4 is located in the Mound Plaza.\n\nStructure 8 is also located in the Mound Plaza.\n\nStructure 10 occupies the centre of the Mound Plaza. It is the highest structure in the plaza and is a pyramid measuring high and across at the base. The structure had at least six phases of construction, each being built on top of the previous and with the earliest yet identified being high.\n\nStructure 13 is located in the Mound Plaza. It demonstrates several construction phases.\n\nStructure 21 is the second largest structure at the site, after Structure 1.\n\n"}
{"id": "808418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=808418", "title": "Black cat", "text": "Black cat\n\nA black cat is a domestic cat with black fur that may be a mixed or specific breed. The Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) recognizes 22 cat breeds that can come with solid black coats. The Bombay breed is exclusively black. All-black fur pigmentation is slightly more prevalent in male cats than female cats. Their high melanin pigment content causes most black cats to have yellow (golden) eyes (irises).\n\nAny cat whose fur is a single color, including black, is known as a \"solid\" or \"self\". A \"solid black\" cat may be coal black, grayish black, or brownish black. Most solid-colored cats result from a recessive gene that suppresses the tabby pattern. Sometimes the tabby pattern is not completely suppressed; faint markings may appear in certain lights, even on a solid black cat. A cat having black fur with white roots is known as a \"black smoke.\"\n\nBlack cats can also \"rust\" in sunlight, the coat turning a lighter brownish shade. Eumelanin, the pigment that is required to produce the black fur, is somewhat fragile, so the rusting effect can be more pronounced in cats that frequently spend time in the sun. A rarer condition that can also cause rusting is a deficiency of the enzyme tyrosine, which is required to produce eumelanin.\nIn addition to the Bombay, the Cat Fanciers' Association allows solid black as a color option in 21 other breeds. The color description for those breeds is:\n\nThe exceptions are:\n\nThe folklore surrounding black cats varies from culture to culture. The Scots believe that a strange black cat's arrival to the home signifies prosperity. In Celtic mythology, a fairy known as the Cat sìth takes the form of a black cat. Black cats are also considered good luck in the rest of Britain and Japan. Furthermore, it is believed that a lady who owns a black cat will have many suitors. In Western history, black cats have typically been looked upon as a symbol of evil omens, specifically being suspected of being the familiars of witches, or actually shape-shifting witches themselves. Most of Europe considers the black cat a symbol of bad luck, particularly if one walks across the path in front of a person, which is believed to be an omen of misfortune and death. In Germany, some believe that black cats crossing a person's path from right to left, is a bad omen. But from left to right, the cat is granting favorable times. In the United Kingdom it is commonly considered that a black cat crossing a person's path is a good omen.\n\nThe black cat in folklore has been able to change into human shape to act as a spy or courier for witches or demons. When the Pilgrims arrived at Plymouth Rock, they brought with them a devout faith in the Bible. They also brought a deepening suspicion of anything deemed of Satan and were a deeply suspicious group. They viewed the black cat as a companion, or a familiar to witches. Anyone caught with a black cat would be severely punished or even killed. They viewed the black cat as part demon and part sorcery. These superstitions led people to kill black cats. There is no evidence from England of regular large-scale massacres of \"satanic\" cats, or of burning them in midsummer bonfires, as sometimes occurred elsewhere in Europe.\n\nIn contrast, the supernatural powers ascribed to black cats were sometimes viewed positively; for example, sailors considering a \"ship's cat\" would want a black one because it would bring good luck. Sometimes, fishermen's wives would keep black cats at home too, in the hope that they would be able to use their influence to protect their husbands at sea (see Ship's cat). The view of black cats being favorable creatures is attributed specifically to the Egyptian goddess Bast (or Bastet), the cat goddess. Egyptian households believed they could gain favor from Bastet by hosting black cats in their household. This view was held in the early 17th century by the English monarch Charles I. Upon the death of his treasured pet black cat, he is said to have lamented that his luck was gone. True to his claim, he was arrested the very next day and charged with high treason.\n\nPirates of the 18th century believed that a black cat would bring different kinds of luck. If a black cat walks towards someone, that person will have bad luck. If a black cat walks away from someone, then that person will have good luck.\n\nConversely in the United Kingdom if a black cat walks towards someone, it brings good fortune, but if it walks away, it takes the good luck with it. If a black cat walks onto a ship and then walks off it, the ship is doomed to sink on its next trip.\n\nBlack cats have been found to have lower odds of adoption in American shelters compared to other colors except brown, although black animals in general take more time to find homes. The reasons given include not only superstition, but also the perception of black as \"boring\" compared to other colors as well as the belief that black cats don't photograph well. Some shelters also suspend or limit adoptions of black cats around Halloween for fear they will be tortured, or used as \"living decorations\" for the holiday and then abandoned. Despite this, no one has ever documented in the history of humane work any relationship between adopting black cats and cats being killed or injured. When such killings are reported, forensic evidence has pointed to natural predators, such as coyotes, eagles, or raptors as the likely cause. Limiting or suspending adoptions around Halloween also places more cats of all colors at risk of dying in shelters due to overcrowding. \n\nAugust 17 is \"Black Cat Appreciation Day.\" Wayne H. Morris created the day in honor of his late sister, June, who had a black cat, Sinbad. The day was chosen in memorial of June's passing.\n\nIn the early days of television in the United States, many stations located on VHF channel 13 used a black cat as a mascot in order to make sport of being located on an \"unlucky\" channel number.\n\nSince the 1880s, the color black has been associated with anarchism. The black cat, in an alert, fighting stance was later adopted as an anarchist symbol.\n\nMore specifically, the black cat—often called the \"sab cat\" or \"sabo-tabby\"—is associated with anarcho-syndicalism, a branch of anarchism that focuses on labor organizing (see Wildcat strike).\n\nIn testimony before the court in a 1918 trial of Industrial Workers of the World leaders, Ralph Chaplin, who is generally credited with creating the IWW's black cat symbol, stated that the black cat \"was commonly used by the boys as representing the idea of sabotage. The idea being to frighten the employer by the mention of the name sabotage, or by putting a black cat somewhere around. You know if you saw a black cat go across your path you would think, if you were superstitious, you are going to have a little bad luck. The idea of sabotage is to use a little black cat on the boss.\"\n\nWhen the Space Shuttle program naming system for missions was reworked to avoid an STS-13, some sourced this to superstition and Apollo 13. The crew for what would have been STS-13 (what turned out to be STS-41C) made a humorous mission patch that included a black cat and a number 13. The mission was successful and even landed on Friday the 13th. The other main reason for the new numbering system was to better accommodate a much higher number of launches.\n\n\nOctober 27 has been designated ‘Black Cat Day’ by Cats Protection in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, to celebrate the virtues of black cats and to encourage people to adopt an unwanted black cat. Cats Protection's own figures suggest that black cats are more difficult for them to find a new home for than other colours. In 2014, the RSPCA reported that 70% of the abandoned cats in its care were black, suggesting a possible reason was that people considered black cats \"un-photogenic\".\n\nIn the United States, \"Black Cat Appreciation Day\" is August 17. Research by the ASPCA shows that black cats are the least likely to be adopted from shelters of any type of cat. This can be partly because of the superstition behind black cats such as their association with witchcraft or bad luck, or because they appear dull next to more colorful cats. In 2014 Toronto, Canada's largest city, held an event on Black Friday during which people could adopt a black cat without paying the usual $75 adoption fee, in order to encourage the adoption of black cats. This trend had now spread across the United States, with many shelters offering free adoption of black cats on Black Friday.\n\nWith the success of the 2018 African-themed Superhero film, \"Black Panther\", there was a fad of adopting black domestic cats as pets and naming them after various characters of the film such as T'Challa and Shuri. It has been observed that usually people were not going out of their way to follow this fad, but visited animal shelters to simply adopt a pet under normal circumstances and were inspired by the Black Panther to adopt a black cat when they see one. Regardless, to reduce the chance of such cats being abandoned when the fad fades, reputable animal shelter personnel took the usual precautions of having potential adopters fill out questionnaires to weed out potentially abusive guardians and have them read literature about the needs and responsibilities of such a pet to dissuade the less conscientious.\n"}
{"id": "12248225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12248225", "title": "Brain Gender", "text": "Brain Gender\n\nBrain Gender is a book by Melissa Hines, Hines graduated with an undergraduate degree from Princeton, following through with a doctorate in psychology from UCLA. Currently, Hines is a psychologist and neuroscientist at the University of Cambridge.\n\n\"Brain Gender\" is a book exploring the biological differences between sex and gender. Hines questions whether or not different biological differences, such as hormones, affect the way people develop and act. Hines demonstrates the possibilities that genetic, biological, neuroendocrine, behavioral, social, and statistical aspects of born sex affect the differences between males or females in gender roles.\n\nIn the end of the book, it is concluded that the human tendency to perceive generalized gender differences is not supported by evidence. Biology does not imply a deterministic set of gender creation or identification.\n"}
{"id": "1524850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1524850", "title": "Complex text layout", "text": "Complex text layout\n\nComplex text layout (CTL) or complex text rendering is the typesetting of writing systems in which the shape or positioning of a grapheme depends on its relation to other graphemes. The term is used in the field of software internationalization, where each grapheme is a character.\n\nScripts which require CTL for proper display may be known as complex scripts. Examples include the Arabic alphabet and scripts of the Brahmic family, such as Devanagari or the Thai alphabet. Many scripts do not require CTL. For instance, the Latin alphabet or Chinese characters can be typeset by simply displaying each character one after another in straight rows or columns. However, even these scripts have alternate forms or optional features (such as cursive writing) which require CTL to produce on computers.\n\nThe main characteristics of CTL complexity are:\n\nNot all occurrences of these characteristics require CTL. For example, the Greek alphabet has context-sensitive shaping of the letter sigma, which appears as ς at the end of a word and σ elsewhere. However, these two forms are normally stored as different characters; for instance, Unicode has both and , and does not treat them as equivalent. For collation and comparison purposes, software should consider the string \"δῖος Ἀχιλλεύς\" equivalent to \"δῖοσ Ἀχιλλεύσ\", but for typesetting purposes they are distinct and CTL is not required to choose the correct form.\n\nMost text-rendering software that is capable of CTL will include information about specific scripts, and so will be able to render them correctly without font files needing to supply instructions on how to lay out characters. Such software is usually provided in a library; examples include:\n\nHowever, such software is unable to properly render any script for which it lacks instructions, which can include many minority scripts. The alternative approach is to include the rendering instructions in the font file itself. Rendering software still needs to be capable of reading and following the instructions, but this is relatively simple.\n\nExamples of this latter approach include Apple Advanced Typography (AAT) and Graphite. Both of these names encompass both the instruction format and the software supporting it; AAT is included on Apple operating systems, while Graphite is available for Microsoft Windows and Linux-based systems.\n\nThe OpenType format is primarily intended for systems using the first approach (layout knowledge in the renderer, not the font), but it has a few features that assist with CTL, such as contextual ligatures. AAT and Graphite instructions can be embedded in OpenType font files.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38621152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38621152", "title": "Cow Wallpaper", "text": "Cow Wallpaper\n\nAndy Warhol's Cow Wallpaper was the first in a series of wallpaper designs he created from the 1960s to the 1980s.\n\nAccording to Warhol, the inspiration for the cow image came from art dealer Ivan Karp:Another time he said, 'Why don't you paint some cows, they're so wonderfully pastoral and such a durable image in the history of the arts.' (Ivan talked like this.) I don't know how 'pastoral' he expected me to make them, but when he saw the huge cow heads — bright pink on a bright yellow background — that I was going to have made into rolls of wallpaper, he was shocked. But after a moment he exploded with: 'They're \"super\"-pastoral! They're ridiculous! They're blazingly bright and vulgar!' I mean, he loved those cows and for my next show we papered all the walls in the gallery with them.\n\nThe show Warhol refers to is his April, 1966 show at the Leo Castelli Gallery, which consisted only of \"Cow Wallpaper\" in one room, and a second room with Warhol's silver helium-filled \"Clouds\".\n\nThe historian and critic Barbara Rose interpreted \"Cow Wallpaper\" as a commentary on the nature of art collecting and the character of the institutions where art is displayed. In a review of Warhol's 1971 retrospective show at the Whitney, she observed that cows are a common subject of genre paintings that people display in their homes, and that the wallpaper made the Whitney look like \"a boutique.\" She continued, \"Of course the museum has been a boutique for a long time, and people have been treating paintings like wallpaper even longer. But Andy spells it out with his usual cruel clarity.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6192874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6192874", "title": "Dwight V. Swain", "text": "Dwight V. Swain\n\nDwight Vreeland Swain (November 17, 1915 – February 24, 1992), born in Rochester, Michigan, was an American author, screenwriter and teacher. Swain is a member of the Oklahoma Writers Hall of Fame.\n\nHis first published story was \"Henry Horn's Super Solvent\", which appeared in \"Fantastic Adventures\" in 1941. He contributed stories in the science fiction, mystery, Western, and action adventure genres to a variety of pulp magazines. His first published book was \"The Transposed Man\" (1955), which appeared as Ace Double D-113, bound dos-à-dos with J.T. McIntosh's \"One in Three Hundred\". In the 1960s, he scripted a motion picture, \"Stark Fear\", starring Beverly Garland and Keith Toby.\n\nHe joined the staff in the extremely successful Professional Writing Program at the University of Oklahoma, training writers of commercial fiction and film. He pioneered scripting documentaries and educational/instructional films using dramatic techniques, rather than the previously common talking heads.\n\nHe later wrote non-fiction books about writing, including \"Techniques of the Selling Writer\"; \"Film Scriptwriting\"; \"Creating Characters: How to Build Story People\"; and \"Scripting for Video and Audiovisual Media\", and was much in demand as a speaker at writers' conferences throughout the US and Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "18668456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18668456", "title": "Energy law", "text": "Energy law\n\nEnergy laws govern the use and taxation of energy, both renewable and non-renewable. These laws are the primary authorities (such as caselaw, statutes, rules, regulations and edicts) related to energy. In contrast, energy policy refers to the policy and politics of energy.\n\nEnergy law includes the legal provision for oil, gasoline, and \"extraction taxes.\" The practice of energy law includes contracts for siting, extraction, licenses for the acquisition and ownership rights in oil and gas both under the soil before discovery and after its capture, and adjudication regarding those rights.\nThere is a growing academic interest in international energy law, including continuing legal education seminars, treatises, law reviews, and graduate courses. In the same line, there has been growing interest on energy-specific issues and their particular relation with international trade and connected organizations like the World Trade Organization.\n\nNigeria's government owns the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation.\n\nUganda has adopted a new nuclear power law, which it hopes \"will boost technical cooperation between the country and the International Atomic Energy Agency,\" according to \"a senior agency official\" from that African country.\n\nEnergy is big business in Australia. The Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association represents 98% of the oil and gas producers in Australia.\n\nCanada has an extensive energy law, both through the federation and the provinces, especially Alberta. These include:\n\nThere is some academic interest in the energy law of Canada, with looseleaf periodical services, monographs, and consultation with lawyers specializing in that practice, available.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada has had issued some Canadian energy case law.\n\nCanada's energy laws are so extensive and complicated in large part because of its government-owned energy resources:\n\nCanada and the Quebec province also own extensive hydroelectric dam facilities, which have generated not only power but controversy.\n\nEuropean energy law has been focused on the legal mechanisms for managing short-term disruptions to the continent's energy supply, such as Germany's 1974 Law to Secure the Energy Supply. The European integrated hydrogen project was a European Union project to integrate United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (ECE) guidelines and create a basis of ECE regulation of hydrogen vehicles and the necessary infrastructure replacing national legislation and regulations. The aim of this project was enhancing of the safety of hydrogen vehicles and harmonizing their licensing and approval process.\n\nFive nations have created the EurObserv'ER energy consortium. The EU has also created an Energy Community to extend their policies into Southeastern Europe.\n\nGermany's renewable energy law mandates the use of renewable energy through its taxes and tariffs. It promotes the development of renewable energy sources via a system of feed-in tariffs. It regulates the amount of energy generated by the producer and the type of renewable energy source. It also creates an incentive to encourage technological advancements and costs. The results have been startling: on 6 June 2014, more than half of the nation's energy used on that date came from solar power. Despite regulatory processes adding more renewable energy to its energy mix, Germany's electric grid has become \"more\" reliable, not less.\n\nThe German government has proposed abandoning \"its planned phase-out of nuclear energy to help rein in surging electricity prices and protect the environment, according to proposals drawn up by an energy task force under Economy Minister Michael Glos.\" The German Green Party has opposed nuclear energy, as well as the market power of German utilities, claiming the \"energy shortfall\" has been artificially created.\n\nThere is significant academic interest in German energy law. A chart summarizing German energy legislation is available.\n\nItaly has few natural resources. lacking substantial deposits of iron, coal, or oil. Proven natural gas reserves, mainly in the Po Valley and offshore Adriatic, constitute the country's most important mineral resource. More than 80% of the country's energy sources are imported. The energy sector is highly dependent on imports from abroad: in 2006 the country imported more than 86% of its total energy consumption.\n\nIn the last decade, Italy has become one of the world's largest producers of renewable energy, ranking as the world's fifth largest solar energy producer in 2009 and the sixth largest producer of wind power in 2008.\n\nIn 1987, after the Chernobyl disaster, a large majority of Italians passed a referendum opting for phasing out nuclear power. The government responded by closing existing nuclear power plants and completely putting a halt to the national nuclear program. Italy also imports about 16% of its electricity need from France for 6.5 GWe, which makes it the world's biggest importer of electricity. Due to its reliance on expensive fossil fuels and imports, Italians pay approximately 45% more than the EU average for electricity.\n\nIn 2004, a new Energy Law brought the possibility of joint ventures with foreign companies to build nuclear power plants and import electricity. In 2005, Italy's power company, ENEL made an agreement with Electricite de France for 200 MWe from a nuclear reactor in France and potentially an additional 1,000 MWe from new construction. As part of the agreement, ENEL received a 12.5% stake in the project and direct involvement in design, construction, and operation of the plants. In another move, ENEL also bought 66% of the Slovak Electric utility that operates six nuclear reactors. As part of this agreement, ENEL will pay the Slovak government EUR 1.6 billion to complete a nuclear power plant in Mochovce, which has a gross output of 942 MWe. With these agreements, Italy has managed to access nuclear power without placing reactors on Italian territory.\n\nThe nation of Lithuania has an energy law, Energetikos teisė.\n\nIn Ukraine, renewable energy projects are supported by a feed-in tariff system. The law of Ukraine \"On alternative sources of energy\" refers to alternative energy sources: solar, wind, geothermal, hydrothermal, marine and hydrokinetic energy, hydroelectricity, biomass, landfill biogas and others. Ukrainian National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission and State Agency on Energy Efficiency and Energy Saving of Ukraine are the main renewable energy regulation authorities. Reforms have been made by Ukrainian government in alternative energy sphere. There is a need of energy savings services in Ukraine. Its potential reaches about 5 billion EUR only in state-owned buildings.\n\nUkraine has a separate regulatory agency to manage the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone.\n\nAlbania has an established the Albanian Institute of Oil and Gas.\n\nThere is significant geothermal power in Iceland; about 80% of the nation's energy needs are met by geothermal sources, all of which is owned by the government, or regulated by it.\n\nTechnically, Iraq has no energy law, but proposed legislation has been pending for almost five years as of early 2012.\n\nThe Iraqi Oil Ministry awards contracts to only a few companies. As of July 2014, there are 23 established oil companies, but only 17 banking corporations in Iraq.\n\nThe Israeli Energy Sources Law, 5750-1989 (\"Energy Law\"), defines what is considered as \"energy\" and \"energy source\" and its purpose is to regulate the exploitation of energy sources whilst ensuring the efficiently of its use.\nUnder the Energy Law, certain regulation methods of measurement have been nominated by the Israel legislature in order to regulate the efficiency of the use of the energy source. In addition to which entity shall be entitled to the pursuit and use of such sources.\nFurthermore, in Israel there are certain additional laws that deal with the use of energy sources, such as the Natural Gas Sector Law, 5762-2002 which provides the conditions for the development of the natural gas sphere in Israel, and the Electricity Sector Law, 5756-1996, which established the \"Public Utility Authority – Electricity\" which publishes directives and regulations for the use of renewable electricity sources, including solar energy and hydro-energy.\n\nPrior to the earthquake and tsunami of March 2011, and the nuclear disasters that resulted from it, Japan generated 30% of its electrical power from nuclear reactors and planned to increase that share to 40%.\n\nNuclear energy was a national strategic priority in Japan, but there had been concern about the ability of Japan's nuclear plants to withstand seismic activity. The Kashiwazaki-Kariwa Nuclear Power Plant was completely shut down for 21 months following an earthquake in 2007.\n\nThe 2011 earthquake and tsunami caused the failure of cooling systems at the Fukushima I Nuclear Power Plant on March 11 and a nuclear emergency was declared. 140,000 residents were evacuated. The total amount of radioactive material released is unclear, as the crisis is ongoing. On 6 May 2011, Prime Minister Naoto Kan ordered the Hamaoka Nuclear Power Plant be shut down as an earthquake of magnitude 8.0 or higher is likely to hit the area within the next 30 years.\n\nProblems in stabilizing the Fukushima I nuclear plant had hardened attitudes to nuclear power. As of June 2011, \"more than 80 percent of Japanese now say they are anti-nuclear and distrust government information on radiation\".\n\nAs of October 2011, there have been electricity shortages, but Japan survived the summer without the extensive blackouts that had been predicted. An energy white paper, approved by the Japanese Cabinet in October 2011, says \"public confidence in safety of nuclear power was greatly damaged\" by the Fukushima disaster, and calls for a reduction in the nation’s reliance on nuclear power.\n\nMany of Japan's nuclear plants have been closed, or their operation has been suspended for safety inspections. The last of Japan's 54 reactors (Tomari-3) went offline for maintenance on May 5, 2012., leaving Japan completely without nuclear-produced electrical power for the first time since 1970. Despite protests, on 1 July 2012 unit 3 of the Ōi Nuclear Power Plant was restarted. As of September 2012, Ōi units 3 and 4 are Japan's only operating nuclear power plants, although the city and prefecture of Osaka have requested they be shut down.\n\nThe United States-Japan Joint Nuclear Energy Action Plan is a bilateral agreement aimed at putting in place a framework for the joint research and development of nuclear energy technology, which was signed on April 18, 2007. It is believed that the agreement is the first that the US has signed to develop nuclear power technologies with another country, although Japan has agreements with Australia, Canada, China, France, and the United Kingdom. Under the plan, the United States and Japan would each conduct research into fast reactor technology, fuel cycle technology, advanced computer simulation and modeling, small and medium reactors, safeguards and physical protection; and nuclear waste management, which it to be coordinated by a joint steering committee. The treaty's progress has been in limbo since the Fukushima I nuclear accidents.\n\nThe Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation (JOGMEC) is a government-owned company involved in fossil-fuel energy exploration, amongst other activities. In 2013, its corporate workers first extracted Methane clathrate from seabed deposits.\n\nMalaysia heavily regulates its energy sector.\n\nFrom 1982 to 1992, the Government of Sabah owned Sabah Gas Industries for the downstream operations of Sabah natural gas resources, based in Labuan, Malaysia, which was put up for privatization. Its methanol plant was sold to Petronas and operates today as Petronas Methanol (Labuan) Sdn Bhd. The power station was sold to Sabah Electricity.\n\nPhilippines law has provisions concerning energy, fossil fuels, and renewable energy. Energy law in the Philippines is important because that nation is one of the fastest growing in Asia, and has over 80 million residents.\n\nThe earliest Philippine energy law dates from 1903, during the American Commonwealth, Act No. 667, concerning franchises for utilities, and Act No. 1022, which allowed such to have mortgages. A uniform law in 1929 allowed for new utilities.\n\nThe first coal mining law, known as the Coal Land Act, dates to 1917. Oil exploration was allowed in a 1920 law. The Mining Act (1936) has been amended several times by acts and decrees.\n\nThe first hydroelectric power law dates from 1933, and have been updated since, including one that created the National Power Corporation, and has been amended several times through 1967. The Renewable Energy Law (2009) encourages the development and use of non-traditional energy sources.\n\nSaudi Arabia has some laws concerning energy, especially oil and gas law. Saudi Arabia is the largest oil producer in the world and therefore its energy law has great influence over the world's overall energy supply.\n\nUnder the Basic Law of Saudi Arabia, all its oil and gas wealth belongs to the government: \"All Allah's bestowed wealth, be it under the ground, on the surface or in national territorial waters, in the land or maritime domains under the state's control, are the property of the state as defined by law. The law defines means of exploiting, protecting, and developing such wealth in the interests of the state, its security and economy.\" Energy taxes are also specifically allowed; Article 20 of the basic law states, \"Taxes and fees are to be imposed on a basis of justice and only when the need for them arises. Imposition, amendment, revocation and exemption is only permitted by law.\"\n\nTwo ministries of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia share the responsibility of the energy sector: the Ministry of Oil and the Ministry of Water and Electricity. The country's laws have also established other agencies that have some legal powers, but are not strictly regulatory. These include Saudi Aramco, originally a joint venture between the Kingdom and the California-Arabian Standard Oil, but now a wholly owned by the Kingdom, and Saudi Consolidated Electricity Companies (SCECOs).\n\nTurkey's old Petroleum Law was in effect for 70 years until 2013, when it enacted a new Petroleum Law, number 6491. Amongst other provisions, it extends the permissible years for drilling permits, reduces a fee, and eliminates a state monopoly.\n\n\"This section concerns the law of the United States, as well as the states that are the most populous or largest producers of energy.\"\n\nIn the United States, energy is regulated extensively through the United States Department of Energy, as well as state regulatory agencies.\n\nEvery state, the Federal government, and the District of Columbia collect some motor vehicle excise taxes. Specifically, these are excise taxes on gasoline, diesel fuel, and gasohol. While many states in the western U.S.A. rely to a great deal on severance taxes (taxes on mineral extraction), most states get a relatively small amount of their revenue from such sources.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25857799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25857799", "title": "Explicature", "text": "Explicature\n\nExplicature is a technical term in pragmatics, the branch of linguistics that concerns the meaning given to an utterance by its context. The explicatures of a sentence are what is explicitly said, often supplemented with contextual information. They contrast with implicatures, the information that the speaker conveys without actually stating it.\n\nThe truth value of a sentence is determined using its explicature. For example:\n\nImagine Jim and Raoul are driving across America from New York City to Seattle, Washington. Raoul is driving, and Jim falls asleep. When Jim wakes up, he asks Raoul, \"Where are we?\" Raoul replies, \"We aren't there yet, but we've passed Chicago.\"\n\nIf Jim and Raoul's car is in fact five minutes outside Seattle and Raoul knows this, he may be accused of lying, since \"We aren't there yet, but we've passed Chicago\" in that context has the implicature \"We are not too far past Chicago and still not near Seattle.\" Technically, however, Raoul's statement was true, because the explicature — \"at the time of utterance, Jim and Raoul had passed Chicago and were not yet there (\"supplement:\" in Seattle)\" — was true.\n\nExplicature was introduced by Sperber and Wilson as a concept in relevance theory. Carston gives a formal definition in accord with their reasoning:\n\n\nThus, only meanings of an utterance that are \"communicated\" can be explicatures. Information that can be inferred, but was not intended to be inferred by the communicator, is neither an explicature nor an implicature.\n\nThis definition also implies that the logical form (intuitively, the literal meaning) of an utterance is incomplete. In order to turn it into a complete proposition that is either true or false, enough context must be known to be able to infer additional information: to disambiguate ambiguous expressions, assign references to variables, interpret indexical expressions, fill in ellipses, and so on. For example, if Peter says \"Susan told me that her kiwis were too sour\", the hearer has to determine which Susan he is referring to, whether \"her\" refers to Susan, whether \"kiwis\" means the fruit or the birds, in what relation the kiwis stand to her, and by what standard they were too sour. So, depending on the context, the first explicature of the utterance might be one of the following:\nLet us assume that the first possibility is the one the hearer arrives at. Now if the hearer believes in Peter's honesty, she concludes another explicature,\nFurther, if the hearer trusts Peter's judgement, she arrives at the explicature\n\nInferences that aren't logically compelling are \"defeasible\": they can be 'defeated' (cancelled) by explicit information without sounding self-contradictory. Thus Peter could cancel much of the above by continuing the original sentence with \"Susan made the birds Chinese style, sweet-sour, but used way too much lime juice for my taste.\"\n\nNot every utterance has explicatures such as the ones above. Counterexamples include metaphors and other figures of speech, which convey their meaning solely via implicatures. The explicature of ironic statements is \"It is ridiculous to say that...\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4482733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4482733", "title": "He's Just Not That into You", "text": "He's Just Not That into You\n\nHe's Just Not That Into You is a self-improvement book written by Greg Behrendt and Liz Tuccillo that was published in 2004 and later adapted into a film by the same name in 2009. It was a New York Times bestseller and was featured on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\".\n\nThe book was inspired by an episode of \"Sex and the City,\" \"Pick-A-Little, Talk-A-Little\", in which Miranda Hobbes asks Carrie Bradshaw's boyfriend, Jack Berger, to analyze the post-date behavior of a potential love interest. Because the man declined Miranda's invitation to come up to her apartment after the date, stating that he has an early meeting, Berger concludes, \"He's just not that into you\", adding, \"When a guy's really into you, he's coming upstairs, meeting or no meeting.\" The book authors, Greg Behrendt and Liz Tuccillo, were writers on the show.\n\nThe book is a \"self-help\" guide aimed for single women. The premise of the book, as stated in the title, tells women readers that if a man in whom you are interested is not making the effort to pursue you, he is simply \"just not that into you.\"\n\nA film based on the book was released by New Line Cinema on February 6, 2009. Produced by Flower Films (Drew Barrymore's production company), filming was completed at the end of 2007. The film was released in theaters February 6, 2009. Ken Kwapis directed the film, which featured an all-star cast including Ben Affleck, Jennifer Aniston, Drew Barrymore, Kevin Connolly, Jennifer Connelly, Bradley Cooper, Ginnifer Goodwin, Scarlett Johansson, and Justin Long. Despite receiving mixed reviews from critics, it was a box office success, grossing over $180 million worldwide.\n\nThe book appears in \"Gilmore Girls\" episode \"Pulp Friction\", when Lorelai Gilmore prepares the Dragon Fly Inn's library for her interview and states that all of the good books are gone, leaving her with five copies of \"He's Just Not That Into You\", which she hands an employee to dispose of. The book was also referenced in the movie \"Zombieland\", in season two of \"Californication\" and in TV series \"Vexed\".\n"}
{"id": "8141896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8141896", "title": "Islamic funeral", "text": "Islamic funeral\n\nFunerals in Islam (called Janazah in Arabic) follow fairly specific rites, though they are subject to regional interpretation and variation in custom. In all cases, however, sharia (Islamic religious law) calls for burial of the body as soon as possible, preceded by a simple ritual involving bathing and shrouding the body, followed by salah (prayer). Burial is usually within 24 hours of death to protect the living from any sanitary issues, except in the case of a person killed in battle or when foul play is suspected; in those cases it is important to determine cause of death before burial. Cremation of the body is forbidden.\n\nBurial rituals should normally take place as soon as possible and include:\n\nThe corpse is washed (\"ghusl\", bathed), with the purpose to physically cleanse the deceased. The exact manner: the method, style and accessories used for bathing the corpse may vary by locale and temporal position, except that it is to be done with heated water. Bathing the dead body is an essential ritual of the Sunnah of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, and therefore a part of the Islamic Sharia. This should occur as soon as possible after death, preferably within hours.\n\nOrthodox practice is to wash the body an odd number of times (at least once) with a cloth covering its awrah (parts of the body that should be hidden according to Sharia). \n\nThe \"washers\" are commonly adult members of the immediate family, who are of the same gender as the deceased. In cases of violent deaths or accidents, where the deceased has suffered trauma or mutilation, morgue facilities mend the body and wrap it in a shroud to minimise fluid leakage prior to surrendering it to mourners for washing.\n\nThe corpse is typically wrapped in a simple plain cloth (the \"kafan\").\nThis is done to respect the dignity and privacy of the deceased with the family sometimes present. The specifics of this ritual, including the material, style, and colour of the cloth, may vary across regions. However, the shroud should be simple and modest. It is for this reason that Muslims have generally preferred to use white cotton cloth to serve as the shroud. \nMen may use only three pieces of cloth and women five pieces of cloth.\n\nThe deceased may be kept in this state for several hours, allowing well-wishers to pass on their respects and condolences.\n\nThe Muslims of the community gather to offer their collective prayers for the forgiveness of the dead. This prayer has been generally termed as the Salat al-Janazah (Janazah prayer).\n\nThe Janazah prayer is as follows: \n\nThe deceased is then taken for burial (\"al-Dafin\"). The exact manner, customs and style of the grave, the burial and so forth may vary by regional custom. \n\nThe grave should be at right angles to the direction of the Qibla (i.e. Mecca) so that the body, placed in the grave without a coffin lying on its right side, faces the Qibla. Grave markers should be raised, not more than about above the ground, so that the grave will neither be walked nor sat on. Grave markers are simple, because outwardly lavish displays are discouraged in Islam. Graves are frequently marked only with a simple wreath, if at all. However, it is becoming more common for family members to erect grave monuments.\n\nIn Middle Eastern cultures women are generally discouraged from participating in the funeral procession. The reason for this is that in pre-Islamic Arabia it was customary in Arabia for grieving women to wail loudly. Wealthy families often even hired 'wailers' to attend the funerals of their deceased relative. Wailing at funerals is not permitted according to the Sahih Bukhari. Women are allowed to attend or be present if they do not wail or cry or hit themselves in grief, especially in an exaggerated excessive manner as it used to be done in old Arabia times. \n\nThree fist-sized spheres of hand-packed soil prepared beforehand by the gravediggers are used as props, one under the head, one under the chin and one under the shoulder. The lowering of the corpse and positioning of the soil-balls is done by the next of kin. In the case of a deceased husband, a male brother or brother-in-law usually performs this task. In the case of a deceased wife, the husband undertakes this if physically able to. If the husband is elderly, then the eldest male son (or son-in-law) is responsible for lowering, alignment and propping the deceased.\n\nOrthodoxy expects those present to symbolically pour three handfuls of soil into the grave while reciting a quranic verse meaning, \"We created you from it, and return you into it, and from it we will raise you a second time\". More prayers are then said, asking for forgiveness of the deceased, and reminding the dead of their profession of faith.\nThe corpse is then fully buried by the gravediggers, who may stamp or pat down the grave to shape. Commonly the eldest male will supervise. After the burial the Muslims who have gathered to pay their respects to the dead collectively pray for the forgiveness of the dead. This collective prayer is the last formal collective prayer for the dead. In some cultures, e.g. South East Asian Muslims, the surviving members of the deceased scatter flowers and perfumed rose water upon the grave as the last action prior to leaving the grave.\n\nAccording to Sunni Islam, loved ones and relatives are to observe a 15-day mourning period. Islamic mourning is observed by increased devotion, receiving visitors and condolences, and avoiding decorative clothing and jewelry in accordance with the Qur'an. Widows observe an extended mourning period (iddah, \"period of waiting\"), 4 months and 10 days long. During that time, the widow is not to remarry or to interact with non-mahram (a man she can marry). This rule is to confirm that the woman is not pregnant with the deceased's child prior to remarrying. However, in case of emergencies such as visiting a doctor because of a health emergency, the widow can interact with non-mahram.\n\nGrief at the death of a beloved person and weeping for the dead is normal and acceptable.\n\nSunni Islam expects expression of grief to remain dignified, prohibiting loud wailing (bewailing refers to mourning in a loud voice), shrieking, beating the chest and cheeks, tearing hair or clothes, breaking objects, scratching faces or speaking phrases that make a Muslim lose faith. Grieving is allowed and a part of the death and burial process to allow one to come in terms with the loss of a person passing away as long as it respects the above.\nThe Qur'an prohibits widows to engage themselves for four lunar months and ten days, after the death of their husbands. According to the Qur'an:\nIslamic scholars consider this directive a balance between the mourning of a husband's death and the protection of a widow from cultural or societal censure if she became interested in remarrying after her husband’s death, often an economic necessity. This provision also operates to protect the property rights of the unborn, as the duration is enough to ascertain whether a widow is pregnant or not.\n\nHusbands are recommended to make a will in favor of their wives for the provision of one year’s residence and maintenance, except if the wives themselves leave the house or take any other similar step. As stated in Qur'an:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1782573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1782573", "title": "Lawrence Block", "text": "Lawrence Block\n\nLawrence Block (born June 24, 1938) is an American crime writer best known for two long-running New York–set series about the recovering alcoholic P.I. Matthew Scudder and the gentleman burglar Bernie Rhodenbarr. Block was named a Grand Master by the Mystery Writers of America in 1994.\n\nLawrence Block was born June 24, 1938 in Buffalo, New York, where he was raised. Block attended Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, but left before graduating.\n\nBlock's earliest work, published pseudonymously in the 1950s, was mostly in the soft-porn mass market paperback industry, an apprenticeship he shared with fellow mystery author Donald E. Westlake. Block describes the early sex novels as a valuable experience, noting that despite the titillating content of the books (rather mild by later standards of adult fiction) he was expected to write fully developed novels with plausible plots, characters and conflicts. He further credits the softcore novels as a factor in his prolific output; writing 15 to 20 sex novels per year to support himself financially, Block was forced to learn to write in a manner that required little revision and editing of his first drafts. His first novel was a lesbian fiction titled \"Strange Are The Ways of Love\", written under the name Lesley Evans. In 2016, Block reissued this novel with a new title \"Shadows\", under another of his pseudonyms, Jill Emerson.\n\nThe first of his work to appear under his own name was the 1957 story \"You Can't Lose,\" for the crime/adventure magazine \"Manhunt\". The first novel to be published under Block's name was \"Grifter's Game\" (1961). It started as an erotic novel but, as Block would later write, \"I decided it might be a cut above what I’d been writing, so I wrote it as a crime novel with the hope it might work for Gold Medal.\" He has since published more than fifty novels and more than a hundred short stories, as well as a series of books for writers.\n\nBlock has lived in New York City for decades, setting most of his fiction there, and has come to be very closely associated with the city. He is married to Lynne Block. He has three daughters, Amy Reichel, Jill Block and Alison Pouliot, from an earlier marriage. With Lynne, he spends much of his time traveling (the two have been to 135 countries), but continues to consider New York his home.\n\nHe was a regular guest on \"The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson\" (2005-2015), appearing in eight of Ferguson's ten seasons as host of the program.\n\nConsiderable autobiographical information on the earlier phase of his life and career may be found scattered through \"Telling Lies for Fun and Profit\" (1981), a collection of his fiction columns from \"Writer's Digest\".\n\nIn 2005 he was honored with the Gumshoe Lifetime Achievement Award.\n\nBlock is an alumnus of the Ragdale Foundation.\n\nBlock's most famous creation, the ever-evolving Matthew Scudder, was introduced in 1976's \"The Sins of the Fathers\" as an alcoholic ex-cop working as an unlicensed private investigator in Hell's Kitchen. Originally published as paperbacks, the early novels are in many ways interchangeable; the second and third entries—\"In the Midst of Death\" (1976) and \"Time to Murder and Create\" (1977)—were written in the opposite order from their publication dates. 1982's \"8 Million Ways to Die\" (filmed in 1986 by Hal Ashby, with unpopular results) breaks from that trend, concluding with Scudder introducing himself at an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting. The series was set to end on that note, but an idle promise Block had made to supply an editor friend with an original Scudder short resulted in \"By the Dawn's Early Light\", a story set during the character's drinking days, but told from the perspective of a recovering alcoholic. Block expanded on that with 1986's \"When the Sacred Ginmill Closes\" (named for a line in a song by folk singer Dave Van Ronk, a close friend), which proved not only one of the more literary entries, but also a favorite of the author and his fans. From then on, Scudder's circumstances rarely remain the same from one book to the next; 1990's \"A Ticket to the Boneyard,\" for example, reunites him with Elaine Mardell, a hooker from his days on the force, whom he marries several books later. Other fan favorites are 1991's taut, gruesome \"A Dance at the Slaughterhouse\" (winner of the Edgar Award for Best [mystery] Novel), and 1993's \"A Long Line of Dead Men,\" a tightly plotted puzzler featuring a rapidly dwindling fraternity known as the \"Club of 31\". A Walk Among the Tombstones, published in 1992, was made into a film, released in 2014, written and directed by Scott Frank, with Liam Neeson playing the lead role. The seventeenth entry, \"A Drop of the Hard Stuff\" was published in May, 2011.\n\nIt has been suggested that Scudder's struggle with alcoholism is in part autobiographical; while Block has repeatedly refused to discuss the subject, citing AA's own tradition of anonymity, in a column he wrote for Writer's Digest, Block wrote that when he created Scudder, \"I let him hang out in the same saloon where I spent a great deal of my own time. I was drinking pretty heavily around that time, and I made him a pretty heavy drinker, too. I drank whiskey, sometimes mixing it with coffee. So did Scudder.\"\n\nBlock's other major series, humorous and much lighter in tone, relates the misadventures of gentleman burglar Bernie Rhodenbarr. The series is rich in sophisticated, witty dialogue.\n\nUnlike Scudder, Rhodenbarr is ageless, remaining essentially the same from 1977's \"Burglars Can't Be Choosers,\" to the eleventh and most recent entry, 2013's \"The Burglar Who Counted the Spoons.\" The only significant advancements come in the third volume, \"The Burglar Who Liked to Quote Kipling\" (1979, winner of the first annual Nero Award) which sees Bernie having used the spoils from his previous caper to buy a bookstore, and introduces Carolyn Kaiser, his lesbian \"soulmate\" and partner in crime. The plots run very much to form: Bernie breaks into a residence (usually on Manhattan's Upper East Side) and, through a series of implausible events, becomes involved in a murder investigation—often as the prime suspect. Not even an eleven-year hiatus (between 1983's \"The Burglar Who Painted Like Mondrian\" and 1994's \"The Burglar Who Traded Ted Williams\") would see that basic formula change. There is, however, a meta quality to the more recent entries: Bernie, the reluctant detective, is himself a bookseller and genre fan, and is apt to make references to Agatha Christie, E.W. Hornung (his cat is named \"Raffles\"), Dashiell Hammett, Raymond Chandler, Sue Grafton and John Sandford, among others. \"The Burglar Who Thought He Was Bogart\" (1995) exploits this to full effect: set during a Humphrey Bogart film festival, the story is itself inspired by many of the actor's most famous roles. \"The Burglar in the Library\" (1997) similarly imagines a meeting between Hammet and Chandler at a New England inn in the 1940s, casting a volume inscribed by Chandler to Hammett as its own Maltese Falcon. In \"The Burglar in the Rye,\" Bernie helps track down a writer clearly based on J.D. Salinger.\n\nThe second novel, \"The Burglar in The Closet\" was filmed in 1987 as \"Burglar\", with Whoopi Goldberg as Bernie (or Bernice).\n\nBesides Scudder and Rhodenbarr, Block has written eight novels about Evan Tanner, an adventurer and accidental revolutionary who, as a result of an injury sustained in the Korean War, cannot sleep. All but the last of these were published in the '60s and early '70s (beginning with 1966's \"The Thief Who Couldn't Sleep\"), while the most recent, 1998's \"Tanner on Ice,\" revived the character after nearly a thirty-year hiatus.\n\nChip Harrison, running on the twin engines of lust and curiosity, originally appeared in two funny, non-mystery novels which revolved around seventeen-year-old Chip's obsessive quest to lose his virginity: \"No Score\" and \"Chip Harrison Scores Again.\"\n\nRealizing the series didn't have much of a future once Chip reached his goal, Block puts Chip to work as an assistant to Leo Haig, an admirer of sleuth Nero Wolfe who models himself after his hero (e.g., Wolfe raises tropical flowers, Haig raises tropical fish). They appeared in two subsequent, decidedly tongue-in-cheek mystery novels: \"Make Out With Murder\" and \"The Topless Tulip Caper\", and a handful of short stories.\n\nFour episodic novels (\"Hit Man\" (1998), \"Hit List\" (2000), \"Hit Parade\" (2006) and \"Hit Me\" (2013)) as well as one full-length novel (\"Hit and Run\" (2008)) chronicle the life of Keller, a lonely, wistful hitman who originally appeared as a semi-regular feature in \"Playboy\" magazine in the 1990s. Most of the novels are fix-ups of related short stories; \"Hit and Run\" is the only Keller novel conceived of and written as a single story.\n\nKeller's full name is John Paul Keller (a fact mentioned in \"Hit Man\"), although he is rarely called anything but Keller in the series. The stories are rarely action-oriented or focused on the details of his crimes, instead being character studies of Keller's personality and the people he meets (e.g., Keller's being hired to kill a major league baseball designated hitter but postponing the act and following the team to away games so the hitter can reach the career milestone of 400 home runs). Originally based in New York City, he later relocates to New Orleans where he lives under the name \"Nicholas Edwards\". Keller receives assignments via a contact named Dot, who is originally based in White Plains. His assignments usually take him to different cities, where he often envisions himself retiring from the business, daydreaming about settling there, before finishing off the assignment and returning, his fantasies forgotten as a passing dream. Keller's unlikely pastime is stamp collecting, to which he is nearly obsessively devoted. He collects non-U.S. issues, prior to 1940, with a particular interest in stamps from Former colonies of the French Empire.\n\n\"Hit and Run\" was nominated for The CWA Gold Dagger at the 2009 Crime Thriller Awards.\n\n\"Small Town\" (2003), Block's first non-series book in fifteen years, details a group of New Yorkers' varying responses to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Block has also written dozens of short stories over the years, and he is the only four-time winner of the Edgar Award for Best Short Story. The 2002 collection \"Enough Rope\" compiles stories, 84 in all, from earlier collections, such as \"Like a Lamb to Slaughter\" and \"Sometimes They Bite\", along with new and previously uncollected stories.\n\nBlock describes series character Martin H. Ehrengraf as a dapper little criminal defense lawyer whose clients all turn out to be innocent. Ehrengraf charges a mere $1 retainer fee and afterwards works on contingency; he gets paid a massive fee if and only if his clients are cleared of wrongdoing. When his clients are cleared, it's because Ehrengraf has committed misdeeds up to and including murder to exonerate his client and often frame another for the crimes. The first short story featuring Ehrengraf, “The Ehrengraf Defense,” was published in \"Ellery Queen’s Mystery Magazine\" in 1978. By 2003, twelve stories had been published and in 2012 Block completed an eleventh story, “The Ehrengraf Settlement.” All eleven were collected and published in an eVolume, \"Ehrengraf For The Defense\" (2012).\n\nIn addition to writing the scripts for a handful of television episodes over the years—including, in 2005, two episodes of the ESPN series \"Tilt\"—Block co-wrote the screenplay for \"My Blueberry Nights\", a 2007 film directed by Wong Kar-wai and starring Norah Jones.\n\n\nThere are also three Bernie Rhodenbarr short stories: \"Like a Thief in the Night\" (\"Cosmopolitan\", May 1983), \"The Burglar Who Dropped In On Elvis\" (\"Playboy\", April 1990), and \"The Burglar Who Smelled Smoke\" (\"Mary Higgins Clark Mystery Magazine\", Summer/Fall 1997). These stories are collected in the 2002 anthology, \"Enough Rope\".\n\n\nA collection of eighty-four short stories, \"Enough Rope\" (2002), contains two Chip Harrison stories.\n\nA collection of eighty-four short stories, \"Enough Rope\" (2002), contains five Keller stories.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWins are in bold.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7599352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7599352", "title": "Lineography", "text": "Lineography\n\nLineography is the art of drawing without lifting the pen, pencil, or paintbrush that is being used.\n\nThe practice originated in France in the seventeenth century. It fell into disuse by the early nineteenth century. Lineography experienced a resurgence in 1960 with the release of the Etch A Sketch.\n\nIn some instances, entire landscapes and still lifes have been drawn or painted using this lineographic technique. Famous works of art, such as the Mona Lisa, have been reproduced using the Etch A Sketch.\n\nThe television show \"How It's Made\" used Lineography in the short segments at the beginnings of many episodes giving a summary of the history of the episode's subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "48635352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48635352", "title": "London Cheerleaders Zoo Riot", "text": "London Cheerleaders Zoo Riot\n\nLondon Cheerleaders Zoo Riot (previously known as London Cheerleaders Zoo Fever) are a professional and competitive cheerleading team in London, established in 2008 by Jessica Zoo. Studies in 2010 showed that 37% of schools in the UK (four in ten) offered Cheerleading as part of the physical education curriculum (figures published by the UK Department of Education in September 2010). This number has only been increasing since, making the UK one of the fastest-growing competitive cheerleading communities worldwide. The London cheerleading team gained popularity with the release of a cheerleading fitness DVD in 2011, Cheerobics, and have been featured on a number of TV shows and commercials since 2008. In mid-2016, the team was renamed London Cheerleaders Zoo Riot due to a merger between Zoo Fever & Zumba Riot.\n\nLondon Cheerleaders Zoo Riot hold the 2014 Grand National Champion title at the British Cheerleading Association for Dance. \n\nLondon Cheerleaders Zoo Riot have been featured on a number of UK and international TV shows, including A League of Their Own Game Changers, BT Sport, Britain’s Got More Talent Sport Relief and Got to Dance. The team also featured in a number of music videos including Black Kids \"I'm Not Gonna Teach Your Boyfriend How to Dance with You\", Molly Beanland’s \"Real Life\", H&M’s Merry ‘Happy Merry’ video with Katy Perry, and Andy Burrows \"Because I Know That I Can\". Over the years, Zoo Riot has also been covered in the press for the creation of their cheerleading fitness class Cheerobics®. Features have included the Dr. Oz Show, The Mirror, Daybreak, Grazia, Cosmopolitan and among others.\n\nThe London Cheerleaders Zoo Riot train at their gym in Waterloo, London\n"}
{"id": "23522969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23522969", "title": "Mathematical elimination", "text": "Mathematical elimination\n\nThe terms \"mathematical elimination\" and \"mathematically eliminated\" mean to be excluded in a decision, based on numerical counts, due to insufficient total numbers, even if all remaining events were 100% in favor. The excluded outcome is considered to be eliminated due to the mathematical probability being zero (0%).\n\nThe term is used in elections when a candidate lacks sufficient votes to win, even if that candidate could garner all remaining votes. In sports, the term \"mathematically eliminated\"\n\nrefers to situations where there are not enough future games or competitive events remaining to be played to avoid defeat, even if all future events were won.\n\nThe term \"mathematically eliminated\" has been in use for more than 100 years,\nalthough the meaning has varied. In a 1904 article, in the \"American Journal of Psychology\", Volume XV, errors of measurement were described as quantifiable to be \"mathematically eliminated\" from the analysis of the remaining data.\n"}
{"id": "16360989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16360989", "title": "Meaning-text theory", "text": "Meaning-text theory\n\nMeaning-text theory (MTT) is a theoretical linguistic framework, first put forward in Moscow by Aleksandr Žolkovskij and Igor Mel’čuk, for the construction of models of natural language. The theory provides a large and elaborate basis for linguistic description and, due to its formal character, lends itself particularly well to computer applications, including machine translation, phraseology, and lexicography. General overviews of the theory can be found in Mel’čuk (1981) and (1988).\n\nLinguistic models in MTT operate on the principle that language consists in a mapping from the content or meaning (semantics) of an utterance to its form or text (phonetics). Intermediate between these poles are additional levels of representation at the syntactic and morphological levels.\n\nRepresentations at the different levels are mapped, in sequence, from the unordered network of the semantic representation (SemR) through the dependency tree-structures of the syntactic representation (SyntR) to a linearized chain of morphemes of the morphological representation (MorphR) and, ultimately, the temporally-ordered string of phones of the phonetic representation (PhonR) (not generally addressed in work in this theory). The relationships between representations on the different levels are considered to be translations or mappings, rather than transformations, and are mediated by sets of rules, called \"components\", which ensure the appropriate, language-specific transitions between levels.\n\nSemantic representations (SemR) in meaning–text theory consist primarily of a web-like semantic structure (SemS) which combines with other semantic-level structures (most notably the semantic-communicative structure [SemCommS], which represents what is commonly referred to as \"information structure\" in other frameworks). The SemS itself consists of a network of predications, represented as nodes with arrows running from predicate nodes to argument node(s). Arguments can be shared by multiple predicates, and predicates can themselves be arguments of other predicates. Nodes generally correspond to lexical and grammatical meanings as these are directly expressed by items in the lexicon or by inflectional means, but the theory allows the option of decomposing meanings into more fine-grained representation via processes of semantic paraphrasing, which are also key to dealing with synonymy and translation-equivalencies between languages. SemRs are mapped onto the next level of representation, the deep-syntactic representation, by the rules of the semantic component, which allow for a one to many relationship between levels (that is, one SemR can potentially be expressed by a variety of syntactic structures, depending on lexical choice, the complexity of the SemR, etc.).\nThe structural description and the (semi-) automatic generation of SemR are subject to research. Here the decomposition takes advantage of the semantic primes of the natural semantic metalanguage to determine a termination criterion of the decomposition.\n\nSyntactic representations in MTT are implemented using dependency trees, which constitute the syntactic structure (SyntS). SyntS is accompanied by various other types of structure, most notably the syntactic communicative structure and the anaphoric structure. There are two levels of syntax in MTT, the deep syntactic representation (DSyntR) and the surface syntactic representation (SSyntR). A good overview of MTT syntax, including its descriptive application, can be found in Mel’čuk (1988). A comprehensive model of English surface syntax is presented in Mel’čuk & Pertsov (1987).\n\nThe deep syntactic representation (DSyntR) is related directly to SemS and seeks to capture the \"universal\" aspects of the syntactic structure. Trees at this level represent dependency relations between lexemes (or between lexemes and a limited inventory of abstract entities such as lexical functions). Deep syntactic relations between lexemes at DSyntR are restricted to a universal inventory of a dozen or syntactic relations including seven ranked actantial (argument) relations, the modificative relation, and the coordinative relation. Lexemes with purely grammatical function such as lexically-governed prepositions are not included at this level of representation; values of inflectional categories that are derived from SemR but implemented by the morphology are represented as subscripts on the relevant lexical nodes that they bear on. DSyntR is mapped onto the next level of representation by rules of the deep-syntactic component.\n\nThe surface-syntactic representation (SSyntR) represents the language-specific syntactic structure of an utterance and includes nodes for all the lexical items (including those with purely grammatical function) in the sentence. Syntactic relations between lexical items at this level are not restricted and are considered to be completely language-specific, although many are believed to be similar (or at least isomorphic) across languages. SSyntR is mapped onto the next level of representation by rules of the surface-syntactic component.\n\nMorphological Representations in MTT are implemented as strings of morphemes arranged in a fixed linear order reflecting the ordering of elements in the actual utterance. It should be noted that this is the first representational level at which linear precedence is considered to be linguistically significant, effectively grouping word-order together with morphological processes and prosody, as one of the three non-lexical means with which languages can encode syntactic structure. As with Syntactic Representation, there are two levels of Morphological Representation—Deep and Surface Morphological Representation. Detailed descriptions of MTT Morphological Representations are found in Mel’čuk (1993–2000) and Mel’čuk (2006).\n\nDeep Morphological Representation (DMorphR) consists of strings of lexemes and morphemes—e.g., +{} +{} +{}. The deep morphological component of rules maps this string onto the Surface Morphological Representation (SMorphR), converting morphemes into the appropriate morphs and performing morphological operations implementing non-concatenative morphological processes—in the case of our example above, giving us /the shoe+s on Bill+s feet/. Rules of the surface morphological component, a subset of which include morphophonemic rules, map the SMorphR onto a phonetic representation [ðə ʃuz an bɪlz fit].\n\nA crucial aspect of MTT is the lexicon, considered to be a comprehensive catalogue of the lexical units (LUs) of a language, these units being the lexemes, collocations and other phrasemes, constructions, and other configurations of linguistic elements that are learned and implemented in speech by users of language. The lexicon in MTT is represented by an explanatory combinatorial dictionary (ECD) which includes entries for all of the LUs of a language along with information speakers must know regarding their syntactics (the LU-specific rules and conditions on their combinatorics). An ECD for Russian was produced by Mel’čuk et al. (1984), and ECDs for French were published as Mel’čuk et al. (1999) and Mel’čuk & Polguère (2007).\n\nOne important discovery of meaning–text linguistics was the recognition that LUs in a language can be related to one another in an abstract semantic sense and that this same relation also holds across many lexically-unrelated pairs or sets of LUs. These relations are represented in MTT as lexical functions (LF). An example of a simple LF is Magn(L), which represents collocations used in intensification such as \"heavy rain\", \"strong wind\", or \"intense bombardment\". A speaker of English knows that for a given lexeme L such as RAIN the value of Magn(RAIN) = HEAVY, whereas Magn(WIND) = STRONG, and so on. MTT currently recognizes several dozen standard LFs that are known to recur across languages.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6765805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6765805", "title": "Men at Birth", "text": "Men at Birth\n\nMen at Birth is an award-winning book from Australian writer David Vernon.\n\nThe book is an edited anthology of birth experiences, written by men. The experiences described are diverse, ranging from caesarean births and VBAC births, to births that take place at home and in a birth centre or labour ward.\n\nSteve Biddulph stated:\n\nThe book has caused some controversy with its view that men who are poorly prepared for birth should not attend the birth of their child, as it may make the birth more difficult for the woman.\n\nOn 13 December 2007 \"Men at Birth\" was the winner of the ACT Writing and Publishing Awards for Best Non-fiction Book of the Year. The award was made by Jon Stanhope.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21226088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21226088", "title": "Modernizing Tradition", "text": "Modernizing Tradition\n\nModernizing Tradition: Gender and Consumerism in Interwar France and Germany is a book by Adam C. Stanley, which demonstrates the ways in which popular ideology surrounding a burgeoning consumer culture served as a means of negotiating wider uncertainties regarding gender and modernity in France and Germany in the interwar period.\n\nAmidst the massive upheavals that followed World War I, there was a pronounced emphasis in both nations to return to an idealized past of order and stability. The key to such recovery, according to popular thinking, was by reconstructing traditional gender roles, which had been thrown out of balance during the war. Such a nostalgized gender order could not be restored, however, without discursive modifications to account for the significant changes in society since 1914. Instead, a renewed emphasis on traditional gender norms required the provision of a degree of seeming empowerment to women by granting them discursive access to modernity.\n\nThese connections between women and the modern were carefully constructed in order to ensure that women's involvement with items of modernity, such as technological consumer goods, did not necessarily involve an assertion of female independence or liberation. Women's association with modernity went only so far as such links could reinforce women's traditional roles or highlight their continued subservience to and dependence on masculine guidance, expertise, and authority. Using advertisements and related ideological tools of consumerism, this study examines those modernized constructions of traditional gender roles.\n\nIn a broader context, the book documents the wide-ranging similarities between French and German conceptions of gender. The transnational nature of this study illustrates that French and German notions of gender and modernity were strikingly congruent, and suggests the possibility of a broader gender ideology common to larger segments of Europe as a whole. These gendered ideals were consistent across not only geographical boundaries, but also chronological and political ones as well. The interwar decades were an era of rapid and stark changes politically, economically, and socially, but gender imagery in popular discourse remained virtually identical over the duration of these years, regardless of political regimes in power or prevailing economic circumstances. One of the important contributions of this study is to note this continuity and consistency of definitions of masculinity and femininity in the interwar era. The ability of traditional gender ideologies to hold firm among disparate elements of the population, people at all points on the political spectrum, and highly differentiated political regimes should form in future scholarly endeavor a vital point for analysis and questioning of cultural attitudes about gender. The fact that gender conceptions remained relatively the same over the course of these two decades—years when virtually every other aspect of society and culture seemed in a constant state of flux—attests to the extraordinarily powerful constancy of these gender constructions in French and German society.\n\nAdam C. Stanley is an assistant professor of history in the Department of Social Sciences at the University of Wisconsin-Platteville. He received a bachelor's degree from Millikin University in 1996, as well as a master's (1999) and PhD (2004) from Purdue University.\n"}
{"id": "29174999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29174999", "title": "Mysticism", "text": "Mysticism\n\nMysticism is the practice of religious ecstasies (religious experiences during alternate states of consciousness), together with whatever ideologies, ethics, rites, myths, legends, and magic may be related to them. It may also refer to the attainment of insight in ultimate or hidden truths, and to human transformation supported by various practices and experiences.\n\nThe term \"mysticism\" has Ancient Greek origins with various historically determined meanings. Derived from the Greek word μυω, meaning \"to conceal\", mysticism referred to the biblical liturgical, spiritual, and contemplative dimensions of early and medieval Christianity. During the early modern period, the definition of mysticism grew to include a broad range of beliefs and ideologies related to \"extraordinary experiences and states of mind\".\n\nIn modern times, \"mysticism\" has acquired a limited definition, with broad applications, as meaning the aim at the \"union with the Absolute, the Infinite, or God\". This limited definition has been applied to a wide range of religious traditions and practices, valuing \"mystical experience\" as a key element of mysticism.\n\nBroadly defined, mysticism can be found in all religious traditions, from indigenous religions and folk religions like shamanism, to organised religions like the Abrahamic faiths and Indian religions, and modern spirituality, New Age and New Religious Movements.\n\nSince the 1960s scholars have debated the merits of perennial and constructionist approaches in the scientific research of \"mystical experiences\". The perennial position is now \"largely dismissed by scholars\", most scholars using a contextual approach, which takes the cultural and historical context into consideration.\n\n\"Mysticism\" is derived from the Greek , meaning \"I conceal\", and its derivative , \"\", meaning 'an initiate'. The verb has received a quite different meaning in the Greek language, where it is still in use. The primary meanings it has are \"induct\" and \"initiate\". Secondary meanings include \"introduce\", \"make someone aware of something\", \"train\", \"familiarize\", \"give first experience of something\".\n\nThe related form of the verb (mueó or myéō) appears in the New Testament. As explained in \"Strong's Concordance\", it properly means shutting the eyes and mouth to experience mystery. Its figurative meaning is to be initiated into the \"mystery revelation\". The meaning derives from the initiatory rites of the pagan mysteries. Also appearing in the New Testament is the related noun (mustérion or mystḗrion), the root word of the English term \"mystery\". The term means \"anything hidden\", a mystery or secret, of which initiation is necessary. In the New Testament it reportedly takes the meaning of the counsels of God, once hidden but now revealed in the Gospel or some fact thereof, the Christian revelation generally, and/or particular truths or details of the Christian revelation.\n\nAccording to Thayer's Greek Lexicon, the term in classical Greek meant \"a hidden thing\", \"secret\". A particular meaning it took in Classical antiquity was a religious secret or religious secrets, confided only to the initiated and not to be communicated by them to ordinary mortals. In the Septuagint and the New Testament the meaning it took was that of a hidden purpose or counsel, a secret will. It is sometimes used for the hidden wills of humans, but is more often used for the hidden will of God. Elsewhere in the Bible it takes the meaning of the mystic or hidden sense of things. It is used for the secrets behind sayings, names, or behind images seen in visions and dreams. The Vulgate often translates the Greek term to the Latin (sacrament).\n\nThe related noun (mustis or mystis, singular) means the initiate, the person initiated to the mysteries. According to Ana Jiménez San Cristobal in her study of Greco-Roman mysteries and Orphism, the singular form and the plural form are used in ancient Greek texts to mean the person or persons initiated to religious mysteries. These followers of mystery religions belonged to a select group, where access was only gained through an initiation. She finds that the terms were associated with the term (Bacchus), which was used for a special class of initiates of the Orphic mysteries. The terms are first found connected in the writings of Heraclitus. Such initiates are identified in texts with the persons who have been purified and have performed certain rites. A passage of the \"Cretans\" by Euripides seems to explain that the (initiate) who devotes himself to an ascetic life, renounces sexual activities, and avoids contact with the dead becomes known as . Such initiates were believers in the god Dionysus Bacchus who took on the name of their god and sought an identification with their deity.\n\nUntil the sixth century the practice of what is now called mysticism was referred to by the term \"contemplatio\", c.q. \"theoria\". According to Johnson, \"[b]oth contemplation and mysticism speak of the eye of love which is looking at, gazing at, aware of divine realities.\"\n\nAccording to Peter Moore, the term \"mysticism\" is \"problematic but indispensable.\" It is a generic term which joins together into one concept separate practices and ideas which developed separately, According to Dupré, \"mysticism\" has been defined in many ways, and Merkur notes that the definition, or meaning, of the term \"mysticism\" has changed through the ages. Moore further notes that the term \"mysticism\" has become a popular label for \"anything nebulous, esoteric, occult, or supernatural.\"\n\nParsons warns that \"what might at times seem to be a straightforward phenomenon exhibiting an unambiguous commonality has become, at least within the academic study of religion, opaque and controversial on multiple levels\". Because of its Christian overtones, and the lack of similar terms in other cultures, some scholars regard the term \"mysticism\" to be inadequate as a useful descriptive term. Other scholars regard the term to be an inauthentic fabrication, the \"product of post-Enlightenment universalism.\"\n\nDeriving from Neo-Platonism and Henosis, mysticism is popularly known as union with God or the Absolute. In the 13th century the term \"unio mystica\" came to be used to refer to the \"spiritual marriage,\" the ecstasy, or rapture, that was experienced when prayer was used \"to contemplate both God’s omnipresence in the world and God in his essence.\" In the 19th century, under the influence of Romanticism, this \"union\" was interpreted as a \"religious experience,\" which provides certainty about God or a transcendental reality.\n\nAn influential proponent of this understanding was William James (1842–1910), who stated that \"in mystic states we both become one with the Absolute and we become aware of our oneness.\" William James popularized this use of the term \"religious experience\" in his \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\", contributing to the interpretation of mysticism as a distinctive experience, comparable to sensory experiences. Religious experiences belonged to the \"personal religion,\" which he considered to be \"more fundamental than either theology or ecclesiasticism\". He gave a Perennialist interpretation to religious experience, stating that this kind of experience is ultimately uniform in various traditions.\n\nMcGinn notes that the term \"unio mystica\", although it has Christian origins, is primarily a modern expression. McGinn argues that \"presence\" is more accurate than \"union\", since not all mystics spoke of union with God, and since many visions and miracles were not necessarily related to union. He also argues that we should speak of \"consciousness\" of God's presence, rather than of \"experience\", since mystical activity is not simply about the sensation of God as an external object, but more broadly about \"new ways of knowing and loving based on states of awareness in which God becomes present in our inner acts.\"\n\nHowever, the idea of \"union\" does not work in all contexts. For example, in Advaita Vedanta, there is only one reality (Brahman) and therefore nothing other than reality to unite with it—Brahman in each person (\"atman\") has always in fact been identical to Brahman all along. Dan Merkur also notes that union with God or the Absolute is a too limited definition, since there are also traditions which aim not at a sense of unity, but of nothingness, such as Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite and Meister Eckhart. According to Merkur, Kabbala and Buddhism also emphasize nothingness. Blakemore and Jennett note that \"definitions of mysticism [...] are often imprecise.\" They further note that this kind of interpretation and definition is a recent development which has become the standard definition and understanding.\n\nAccording to Gelman, \"A unitive experience involves a phenomenological de-emphasis, blurring, or eradication of multiplicity, where the cognitive significance of the experience is deemed to lie precisely in that phenomenological feature\".\n\nMysticism involves an explanatory context, which provides meaning for so-called mystical and visionary experiences, and related experiences like trances. According to Dan Merkur, mysticism may relate to any kind of ecstasy or altered state of consciousness, and the ideas and explanations related to them. Parsons stresses the importance of distinguishing between temporary experiences and mysticism as a process, which is embodied within a \"religious matrix\" of texts and practices. Richard Jones does the same. Peter Moore notes that mystical experience may also happen in a spontaneous and natural way, to people who are not committed to any religious tradition. These experiences are not necessarily interpreted in a religious framework. Ann Taves asks by which processes experiences are set apart and deemed religious or mystical.\n\nSome authors emphasize that mystical experience involves intuitive understanding of the meaning of existence and of hidden truths, and the resolution of life problems. According to Larson, \"mystical experience is an intuitive understanding and realization of the meaning of existence.\" According to McClenon, mysticism is \"the doctrine that special mental states or events allow an understanding of ultimate truths.\" According to James R. Horne, mystical illumination \"a central visionary experience [...] that results in the resolution of a personal or religious problem.\n\nAccording to Evelyn Underhill, \"illumination\" is a generic English term for the phenomenon of mysticism. The term \"illumination\" is derived from the Latin \"\", applied to Christian prayer in the 15th century. Comparable Asian terms are bodhi, kensho and satori in Buddhism, commonly translated as \"enlightenment\", and vipassana, which all point to cognitive processes of intuition and comprehension. According to Wright, the use of the western word \"enlightenment\" is based on the supposed resemblance of \"bodhi\" with \"Aufklärung\", the independent use of reason to gain insight into the true nature of our world, and there are more resemblances with Romanticism than with the Enlightenment: the emphasis on feeling, on intuitive insight, on a true essence beyond the world of appearances.\n\nOther authors point out that mysticism involves more than \"mystical experience.\" According to Gellmann, the ultimate goal of mysticism is human transformation, not just experiencing mystical or visionary states. According to McGinn, personal transformation is the essential criterion to determine the authenticity of Christian mysticism.\n\nIn the Hellenistic world, 'mystical' referred to \"secret\" religious rituals The use of the word lacked any direct references to the transcendental. A \"mystikos\" was an initiate of a mystery religion.\n\nIn early Christianity the term \"mystikos\" referred to three dimensions, which soon became intertwined, namely the biblical, the liturgical and the spiritual or contemplative. The biblical dimension refers to \"hidden\" or allegorical interpretations of Scriptures. The liturgical dimension refers to the liturgical mystery of the Eucharist, the presence of Christ at the Eucharist. The third dimension is the contemplative or experiential knowledge of God.\n\nUntil the sixth century, the Greek term \"theoria,\" meaning \"contemplation\" in Latin, was used for the mystical interpretation of the Bible. The link between mysticism and the vision of the Divine was introduced by the early Church Fathers, who used the term as an adjective, as in mystical theology and mystical contemplation. Under the influence of Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite the mystical theology came to denote the investigation of the allegorical truth of the Bible, and \"the spiritual awareness of the ineffable Absolute beyond the theology of divine names.\" Pseudo-Dionysius' Apophatic theology, or \"negative theology\", exerted a great influence on medieval monastic religiosity. It was influenced by Neo-Platonism, and very influential in Eastern Orthodox Christian theology. In western Christianity it was a counter-current to the prevailing Cataphatic theology or \"positive theology\".\n\n\"Theoria\" enabled the Fathers to perceive depths of meaning in the biblical writings that escape a purely scientific or empirical approach to interpretation. The Antiochene Fathers, in particular, saw in every passage of Scripture a double meaning, both literal and spiritual.\n\nLater, \"theoria\" or contemplation came to be distinguished from intellectual life, leading to the identification of θεωρία or \"contemplatio\" with a form of prayer distinguished from discursive meditation in both East and West.\n\nThis threefold meaning of \"mystical\" continued in the Middle Ages. According to Dan Merkur, the term \"unio mystica\" came into use in the 13th century as a synonym for the \"spiritual marriage,\" the ecstasy, or rapture, that was experienced when prayer was used \"to contemplate both God’s omnipresence in the world and God in his essence.\" Under the influence of Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite the mystical theology came to denote the investigation of the allegorical truth of the Bible, and \"the spiritual awareness of the ineffable Absolute beyond the theology of divine names.\" Pseudo-Dionysius' Apophatic theology, or \"negative theology\", exerted a great influence on medieval monastic religiosity, although it was mostly a male religiosity, since women were not allowed to study. It was influenced by Neo-Platonism, and very influential in Eastern Orthodox Christian theology. In western Christianity it was a counter-current to the prevailing Cataphatic theology or \"positive theology\". It is best known nowadays in the western world from Meister Eckhart and John of the Cross.\n\nIn the sixteenth and seventeenth century \"mysticism\" came to be used as a substantive. This shift was linked to a new discourse, in which science and religion were separated.\n\nLuther dismissed the allegorical interpretation of the bible, and condemned Mystical theology, which he saw as more Platonic than Christian. \"The mystical\", as the search for the hidden meaning of texts, became secularised, and also associated with literature, as opposed to science and prose.\n\nScience was also distinguished from religion. By the middle of the 17th century, \"the mystical\" is increasingly applied exclusively to the religious realm, separating religion and \"natural philosophy\" as two distinct approaches to the discovery of the hidden meaning of the universe. The traditional hagiographies and writings of the saints became designated as \"mystical\", shifting from the virtues and miracles to extraordinary experiences and states of mind, thereby creating a newly coined \"mystical tradition\". A new understanding developed of the Divine as residing within human, an essence beyond the varieties of religious expressions.\n\nThe 19th century saw a growing emphasis on individual experience, as a defense against the growing rationalism of western society. The meaning of mysticism was considerably narrowed:\nUnder the influence of Perennialism, which was popularised in both the west and the east by Unitarianism, Transcendentalists and Theosophy, mysticism has been applied to a broad spectrum of religious traditions, in which all sorts of esotericism and religious traditions and practices are joined together. The term mysticism was extended to comparable phenomena in non-Christian religions, where it influenced Hindu and Buddhist responses to colonialism, resulting in Neo-Vedanta and Buddhist modernism.\n\nIn the contemporary usage \"mysticism\" has become an umbrella term for all sorts of non-rational world views. William Harmless even states that mysticism has become \"a catch-all for religious weirdness\". Within the academic study of religion the apparent \"unambiguous commonality\" has become \"opaque and controversial\". The term \"mysticism\" is being used in different ways in different traditions. Some call to attention the conflation of mysticism and linked terms, such as spirituality and esotericism, and point at the differences between various traditions.\n\nBased on various definitions of mysticism, namely mysticism as an experience of union or nothingness, mysticism as any kind of an altered state of consciousness which is attributed in a religious way, mysticism as \"enlightenment\" or insight, and mysticism as a way of transformation, \"mysticism\" can be found in many cultures and religious traditions, both in folk religion and organized religion. These traditions include practices to induce religious or mystical experiences, but also ethical standards and practices to enhance self-control and integrate the mystical experience into daily life.\n\nDan Merkur notes, though, that mystical practices are often separated from daily religious practices, and restricted to \"religious specialists like monastics, priests, and other renunciates.\n\nAccording to Dan Merkur, shamanism may be regarded as a form of mysticism, in which the world of spirits is accessed through religious ecstasy. According to Mircea Eliade shamanism is a \"technique of religious ecstasy.\"\n\nShamanism is a practice that involves a practitioner reaching altered states of consciousness in order to perceive and interact with a spirit world and channel these transcendental energies into this world. A shaman is a person regarded as having access to, and influence in, the world of benevolent and malevolent spirits, who typically enters into a trance state during a ritual, and practices divination and healing.\n\nThe term \"shamanism\" was first applied by western anthropologists to the ancient religion of the Turks and Mongols, as well as those of the neighboring Tungusic and Samoyedic-speaking peoples. The term is also used to describe similar magico-religious practices found within the ethnic religions of other parts of Asia, Africa, Australasia and the Americas. For instance, Louisiana Voodoo, Haitian Vodou, West African Vodun, Dominican Vudú and Hoodoo are related folk-religions with ecstatic elements.\n\nNeoshamanism refers to \"new\"' forms of shamanism, or methods of seeking visions or healing, typically practiced in Western countries. Neoshamanism comprises an eclectic range of beliefs and practices that involve attempts to attain altered states and communicate with a spirit world, and is associated with New Age practices.\n\nThe Eleusinian Mysteries, (Greek: ) were annual initiation ceremonies in the cults of the goddesses Demeter and Persephone, held in secret at Eleusis (near Athens) in ancient Greece. The mysteries began in about 1600 B.C. in the Mycenean period and continued for two thousand years, becoming a major festival during the Hellenic era, and later spreading to Rome.\n\nThe apophatic theology, or \"negative theology\", of Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite (6th c.) exerted a great influence on medieval monastic religiosity, both in the East and (by Latin translation) in the West. Pseudo-Dionysius applied Neoplatonic thought, particularly that of Proclus, to Christian theology.\n\nThe Orthodox Church has a long tradition of \"theoria\" (intimate experience) and \"hesychia\" (inner stillness), in which contemplative prayer silences the mind to progress along the path of \"theosis\" (deification).\n\n\"Theosis\", practical unity with and conformity to God, is obtained by engaging in contemplative prayer, the first stage of \"theoria\", which results from the cultivation of watchfulness (\"nepsis\"). In \"theoria\", one comes to behold the \"divisibly indivisible\" divine operations (\"energeia\") of God as the \"uncreated light\" of transfiguration, a grace which is eternal and proceeds naturally from the blinding darkness of the incomprehensible divine essence. It is the main aim of hesychasm, which was developed in the thought St. Symeon the New Theologian, embraced by the monastic communities on Mount Athos, and most notably defended by St. Gregory Palamas against the Greek humanist philosopher Barlaam of Calabria. According to Roman Catholic critics, hesychastic practice has its roots to the introduction of a systematic practical approach to quietism by Symeon the New Theologian.\n\nSymeon believed that direct experience gave monks the authority to preach and give absolution of sins, without the need for formal ordination. While Church authorities also taught from a speculative and philosophical perspective, Symeon taught from his own direct mystical experience, and met with strong resistance for his charismatic approach, and his support of individual direct experience of God's grace.\n\nThe High Middle Ages saw a flourishing of mystical practice and theorization in western Roman Catholicism, corresponding to the flourishing of new monastic orders, with such figures as Guigo II, Hildegard of Bingen, Bernard of Clairvaux, the Victorines, all coming from different orders, as well as the first real flowering of popular piety among the laypeople.\n\nThe Late Middle Ages saw the clash between the Dominican and Franciscan schools of thought, which was also a conflict between two different mystical theologies: on the one hand that of Dominic de Guzmán and on the other that of Francis of Assisi, Anthony of Padua, Bonaventure, and Angela of Foligno. This period also saw such individuals as John of Ruysbroeck, Catherine of Siena and Catherine of Genoa, the Devotio Moderna, and such books as the \"Theologia Germanica\", \"The Cloud of Unknowing\" and \"The Imitation of Christ\".\n\nMoreover, there was the growth of groups of mystics centered around geographic regions: the Beguines, such as Mechthild of Magdeburg and Hadewijch (among others); the Rhineland mystics Meister Eckhart, Johannes Tauler and Henry Suso; and the English mystics Richard Rolle, Walter Hilton and Julian of Norwich. The Spanish mystics included Teresa of Avila, John of the Cross and Ignatius Loyola.\n\nThe later post-reformation period also saw the writings of lay visionaries such as Emanuel Swedenborg and William Blake, and the foundation of mystical movements such as the Quakers. Catholic mysticism continued into the modern period with such figures as Padre Pio and Thomas Merton.\n\nThe philokalia, an ancient method of Eastern Orthodox mysticism, was promoted by the twentieth century Traditionalist School. The allegedly inspired or \"channeled\" work \"A Course in Miracles\" represents a blending of non-denominational Christian and New Age ideas.\n\nMany western esoteric traditions and elements of modern spirituality have been regarded as \"mysticism,\" such as Gnosticism, Transcendentalism, Theosophy, the Fourth Way, and Neo-Paganism. Modern western spiritually and transpersonal psychology combine western psycho-therapeutic practices with religious practices like meditation to attain a lasting transformation. Nature mysticism is an intense experience of unification with nature or the cosmic totality, which was popular with Romantic writers.\n\nIn the common era, Judaism has had two main kinds of mysticism: Merkabah mysticism and Kabbalah. The former predated the latter, and was focused on visions, particularly those mentioned in the Book of Ezekiel. It gets its name from the Hebrew word meaning \"chariot\", a reference to Ezekiel's vision of a fiery chariot composed of heavenly beings.\n\nKabbalah is a set of esoteric teachings meant to explain the relationship between an unchanging, eternal and mysterious Ein Sof (no end) and the mortal and finite universe (his creation). Inside Judaism, it forms the foundations of mystical religious interpretation.\n\nKabbalah originally developed entirely within the realm of Jewish thought. Kabbalists often use classical Jewish sources to explain and demonstrate its esoteric teachings. These teachings are thus held by followers in Judaism to define the inner meaning of both the Hebrew Bible and traditional Rabbinic literature, their formerly concealed transmitted dimension, as well as to explain the significance of Jewish religious observances.\n\nKabbalah emerged, after earlier forms of Jewish mysticism, in 12th to 13th century Southern France and Spain, becoming reinterpreted in the Jewish mystical renaissance of 16th-century Ottoman Palestine. It was popularised in the form of Hasidic Judaism from the 18th century forward. 20th-century interest in Kabbalah has inspired cross-denominational Jewish renewal and contributed to wider non-Jewish contemporary spirituality, as well as engaging its flourishing emergence and historical re-emphasis through newly established academic investigation.\n\nSufism is said to be Islam's inner and mystical dimension. Classical Sufi scholars have defined Sufism as\nA practitioner of this tradition is nowadays known as a \"\" (), or, in earlier usage, a dervish. The origin of the word \"Sufi\" is ambiguous. One understanding is that Sufi means wool-wearer; wool wearers during early Islam were pious ascetics who withdrew from urban life. Another explanation of the word \"Sufi\" is that it means 'purity'.\n\nSufis generally belong to a \"khalqa\", a circle or group, led by a Sheikh or \"Murshid\". Sufi circles usually belong to a \"Tariqa\" which is the Sufi order and each has a \"Silsila\", which is the spiritual lineage, which traces its succession back to notable Sufis of the past, and often ultimately to the last prophet Muhammed or one of his close associates. The \"turuq\" (plural of \"tariqa\") are not enclosed like Christian monastic orders; rather the members retain an outside life. Membership of a Sufi group often passes down family lines. Meetings may or may not be segregated according to the prevailing custom of the wider society. An existing Muslim faith is not always a requirement for entry, particularly in Western countries.\n\nSufi practice includes\n\nThe aims of Sufism include: the experience of ecstatic states (\"hal\"), purification of the heart (\"qalb\"), overcoming the lower self (\"nafs\"), extinction of the individual personality (\"fana\"), communion with God (\"haqiqa\"), and higher knowledge (\"marifat\"). Some sufic beliefs and practices have been found unorthodox by other Muslims; for instance Mansur al-Hallaj was put to death for blasphemy after uttering the phrase \"Ana'l Haqq\", \"I am the Truth\" (i.e. God) in a trance.\n\nNotable classical Sufis include Jalaluddin Rumi, Fariduddin Attar, Sultan Bahoo, Sayyed Sadique Ali Husaini, Saadi Shirazi and Hafez, all major poets in the Persian language. Omar Khayyam, Al-Ghazzali and Ibn Arabi were renowned scholars. Abdul Qadir Jilani, Moinuddin Chishti, and Bahauddin Naqshband founded major orders, as did Rumi. Rabia Basri was the most prominent female Sufi.\n\nSufism first came into contact with the Judeo-Christian world during the\nMoorish occupation of Spain. An interest in Sufism revived in non-Muslim countries during the modern era, led by such figures as Inayat Khan and Idries Shah (both in the UK), Rene Guenon (France) and Ivan Aguéli (Sweden). Sufism has also long been present in Asian countries that do not have a Muslim majority, such as India and China.\n\nIn Hinduism, various sadhanas aim at overcoming ignorance (\"avidhya\") and transcending the limited identification with body, mind and ego to attain \"moksha\". Hinduism has a number of interlinked ascetic traditions and philosophical schools which aim at moksha and the acquisition of higher powers. With the onset of the British colonisation of India, those traditions came to be interpreted in western terms such as \"mysticism\", drawing equivalents with western terms and practices.\n\nYoga is the physical, mental, and spiritual practices or disciplines which aim to attain a state of permanent peace. Various traditions of yoga are found in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism. The \"Yoga Sūtras of Patañjali\" defines yoga as \"the stilling of the changing states of the mind,\" which is attained in samadhi.\n\nClassical Vedanta gives philosophical interpretations and commentaries of the Upanishads, a vast collection of ancient hymns. At least ten schools of Vedanta are known, of which Advaita Vedanta, Vishishtadvaita, and Dvaita are the best known. Advaita Vedanta, as expounded by Adi Shankara, states that there is no difference between Atman and Brahman. The best-known subschool is Kevala Vedanta or \"mayavada\" as expounded by Adi Shankara. Advaita Vedanta has acquired a broad acceptance in Indian culture and beyond as the paradigmatic example of Hindu spirituality. In contrast Bhedabheda-Vedanta emphasizes that Atman and Brahman are both the same and \"not\" the same, while Dvaita Vedanta states that Atman and God are fundamentally different. In modern times, the Upanishads have been interpreted by Neo-Vedanta as being \"mystical\".\n\nVarious Shaivist traditions are strongly nondualistic, such as Kashmir Shaivism and Shaiva Siddhanta.\n\nTantra is the name given by scholars to a style of meditation and ritual which arose in India no later than the fifth century AD. Tantra has influenced the Hindu, Bön, Buddhist, and Jain traditions and spread with Buddhism to East and Southeast Asia. Tantric ritual seeks to access the supra-mundane through the mundane, identifying the microcosm with the macrocosm. The Tantric aim is to sublimate (rather than negate) reality. The Tantric practitioner seeks to use \"prana\" (energy flowing through the universe, including one's body) to attain goals which may be spiritual, material or both. Tantric practice includes visualisation of deities, mantras and mandalas. It can also include sexual and other (antinomian) practices.\n\nMysticism in the Sikh dharm began with its founder, Guru Nanak, who as a child had profound mystical experiences. Guru Nanak stressed that God must be seen with 'the inward eye', or the 'heart', of a human being. Guru Arjan, the fifth Sikh Guru, added religious mystics belonging to other religions into the holy scriptures that would eventually become the Guru Granth Sahib.\n\nThe goal of Sikhism is to be one with God. Sikhs meditate as a means to progress towards enlightenment; it is devoted meditation simran that enables a sort of communication between the Infinite and finite human consciousness. There is no concentration on the breath but chiefly the remembrance of God through the recitation of the name of God and surrender themselves to Gods presence often metaphorized as surrendering themselves to the Lord's feet.\n\nAccording to Oliver, Buddhism is mystical in the sense that it aims at the identification of the true nature of our self, and live according to it. Buddhism originated in India, sometime between the 6th and 4th centuries BCE, but is now mostly practiced in other countries, where it developed into a number of traditions, the main ones being Therevada, Mahayana, and Vajrayana.\n\nBuddhism aims at liberation from the cycle of rebirth by self-control through meditation and morally just behaviour. Some Buddhist paths aim at a gradual development and transformation of the personality toward Nirvana, like the Theravada stages of enlightenment. Others, like the Japanese Rinzai Zen tradition, emphasize sudden insight, but nevertheless also prescribe intensive training, including meditation and self-restraint.\n\nAlthough Theravada does not acknowledge the existence of a theistic Absolute, it does postulate Nirvana as a transcendent reality which may be attained. It further stresses transformation of the personality through meditative practice, self-restraint, and morally just behaviour. According to Richard H. Jones, Theravada is a form of mindful extrovertive and introvertive mysticism, in which the conceptual structuring of experiences is weakened, and the ordinary sense of self is weakened. It is best known in the west from the Vipassana movement, a number of branches of modern Theravāda Buddhism from Burma, Laos, Thailand and Sri Lanka, and includes contemporary American Buddhist teachers such as Joseph Goldstein and Jack Kornfield.\n\nThe Yogacara school of Mahayana investigates the workings of the mind, stating that only the mind (\"citta-mātra\") or the representations we cognize (\"vijñapti-mātra\"), really exist. In later Buddhist Mahayana thought, which took an idealistic turn, the unmodified mind came to be seen as a pure consciousness, from which everything arises. \"Vijñapti-mātra\", coupled with \"Buddha-nature\" or \"tathagatagarba\", has been an influential concept in the subsequent development of Mahayana Buddhism, not only in India, but also in China and Tibet, most notable in the Chán (Zen) and Dzogchen traditions.\n\nChinese and Japanese Zen is grounded on the Chinese understanding of the Buddha-nature as one true's essence, and the Two truths doctrine as a polarity between relative and Absolute reality. Zen aims at insight one's true nature, or Buddha-nature, thereby manifesting Absolute reality in the relative reality. In Soto, this Buddha-nature is regarded to be ever-present, and shikan-taza, sitting meditation, is the expression of the already existing Buddhahood. Rinzai-zen emphasises the need for a break-through insight in this Buddha-nature, but also stresses that further practice is needed to deepen the insight and to express it in daily life, as expressed in the Three mysterious Gates, the Four Ways of Knowing of Hakuin, and the Ten Ox-Herding Pictures. The Japanese Zen-scholar D.T. Suzuki noted similarities between Zen-Buddhism and Christian mysticism, especially meister Eckhart.\n\nThe Tibetan Vajrayana tradition is based on Madhyamaka philosophy and Tantra. In deity yoga, visualizations of deities are eventually dissolved, to realize the inherent emptiness of every-'thing' that exists. Dzogchen, which is being taught in both the Tibetan buddhist Nyingma school and the Bön tradition, focuses on direct insight into our real nature. It holds that \"mind-nature\" is manifested when one is enlightened, being nonconceptually aware (\"rigpa\", \"open presence\") of one's nature, \"a recognition of one's beginningless nature.\" Mahamudra has similarities with Dzogchen, emphasizing the meditational approach to insight and liberation.\n\nTaoist philosophy is centered on the \"Tao\", usually translated \"Way\", an ineffable cosmic principle. The contrasting yet interdependent concepts of \"yin\" and \"yang\" also symbolise harmony, with Taoist scriptures often emphasing the \"Yin\" virtues of femininity, passivity and yieldingness. Taoist practice includes exercises and rituals aimed at manipulating the life force \"Qi\", and obtaining health and longevity. These have been elaborated into practices such as \"Tai chi\", which are well known in the west.\n\nToday there is also occurring in the West what Richard Jones calls \"the secularization of mysticism\". That is the separation of meditation and other mystical practices from their traditional use in religious ways of life to only secular ends of purported psychological and physiological benefits.\n\nR. C. Zaehner distinguishes three fundamental types of mysticism, namely theistic, monistic and panenhenic (\"all-in-one\") or natural mysticism. The theistic category includes most forms of Jewish, Christian and Islamic mysticism and occasional Hindu examples such as Ramanuja and the Bhagavad Gita. The monistic type, which according to Zaehner is based upon an experience of the unity of one's soul, includes Buddhism and Hindu schools such as Samhya and Advaita vedanta. Nature mysticism seems to refer to examples that do not fit into one of these two categories.\n\nWalter Terence Stace, in his book \"Mysticism and Philosophy\" (1960), distinguished two types of mystical experience, namely extrovertive and introvertive mysticism. Extrovertive mysticism is an experience of the unity of the external world, whereas introvertive mysticism is \"an experience of unity devoid of perceptual objects; it is literally an experience of 'no-thing-ness'.\" The unity in extrovertive mysticism is with the totality of objects of perception. While perception stays continuous, “unity shines through the same world”; the unity in introvertive mysticism is with a pure consciousness, devoid of objects of perception, “pure unitary consciousness, wherein awareness of the world and of multiplicity is completely obliterated.” According to Stace such experiences are nonsensous and nonintellectual, under a total “suppression of the whole empirical content.”\n\nStace argues that doctrinal differences between religious traditions are inappropriate criteria when making cross-cultural comparisons of mystical experiences. Stace argues that mysticism is part of the process of perception, not interpretation, that is to say that the unity of mystical experiences is perceived, and only afterwards interpreted according to the perceiver’s background. This may result in different accounts of the same phenomenon. While an atheist describes the unity as “freed from empirical filling”, a religious person might describe it as “God” or “the Divine”.\n\nSince the 19th century, mystical experience has evolved as a distinctive concept. It is closely related to \"mysticism\" but lays sole emphasis on the experiential aspect, be it spontaneous or induced by human behavior, whereas mysticism encompasses a broad range of practices aiming at a transformation of the person, not just inducing mystical experiences.\n\nWilliam James' \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\" is the classic study on religious or mystical experience, which influenced deeply both the academic and popular understanding of \"religious experience\". He popularized the use of the term \"religious experience\" in his \"Varieties\", and influenced the understanding of mysticism as a distinctive experience which supplies knowledge of the transcendental:\nYet, Gelman notes that so-called mystical experience is not a transitional event, as William James claimed, but an \"abiding consciousness, accompanying a person throughout the day, or parts of it. For that reason, it might be better to speak of mystical consciousness, which can be either fleeting or abiding.\"\n\nMost mystical traditions warn against an attachment to mystical experiences, and offer a \"protective and hermeneutic framework\" to accommodate these experiences. These same traditions offer the means to induce mystical experiences, which may have several origins:\n\nThe theoretical study of mystical experience has shifted from an experiential, privatized and perennialist approach to a contextual and empirical approach. The experientalist approach sees mystical experience as a private expression of perennial truths, separate from its historical and cultural context. The contextual approach, which also includes constructionism and attribution theory, takes into account the historical and cultural context. Neurological research takes an empirical approach, relating mystical experiences to neurological processes.\n\nThe term \"mystical experience\" evolved as a distinctive concept since the 19th century, laying sole emphasis on the experiential aspect, be it spontaneous or induced by human behavior. Perennialists regard those various experience traditions as pointing to one universal transcendental reality, for which those experiences offer the proof. In this approach, mystical experiences are privatised, separated from the context in which they emerge. Well-known representatives are William James, R.C. Zaehner, William Stace and Robert Forman. The perennial position is \"largely dismissed by scholars\", but \"has lost none of its popularity.\"\n\nIn contrast, for the past decades most scholars have favored a constructionist approach, which states that mystical experiences are fully constructed by the ideas, symbols and practices that mystics are familiar with. Critics of the term \"religious experience\" note that the notion of \"religious experience\" or \"mystical experience\" as marking insight into religious truth is a modern development, and contemporary researchers of mysticism note that mystical experiences are shaped by the concepts \"which the mystic brings to, and which shape, his experience\". What is being experienced is being determined by the expectations and the conceptual background of the mystic.\n\nRichard Jones draws a distinction between \"anticonstructivism\" and \"perennialism\": constructivism can be rejected with respect to a certain class of mystical experiences without ascribing to a perennialist philosophy on the relation of mystical doctrines. One can reject constructivism without claiming that mystical experiences reveal a cross-cultural \"perennial truth\". For example, a Christian can reject both constructivism and perennialism in arguing that there is a union with God free of cultural construction. Constructivism versus anticonstructivism is a matter of the nature of \"mystical experiences\" while perennialism is a matter of \"mystical traditions and the doctrines they espouse\".\n\nThe contextual approach has become the common approach. Contextualism takes into account the historical and cultural context of mystical experiences. The attribution approach views \"mystical experience\" as non-ordinary states of consciousness which are explained in a religious framework. According to Proudfoot, mystics unconsciously merely attribute a doctrinal content to ordinary experiences. That is, mystics project cognitive content onto otherwise ordinary experiences having a strong emotional impact. This approach has been further elaborated by Ann Taves, in her \"Religious Experience Reconsidered\". She incorporates both neurological and cultural approaches in the study of mystical experience.\n\nNeurological research takes an empirical approach, relating mystical experiences to neurological processes. This leads to a central philosophical issue: does the identification of neural triggers or neural correlates of mystical experiences prove that mystical experiences are no more than brain events or does it merely identify the brain activity occurring during a genuine cognitive event? The most common positions are that neurology reduces mystical experiences or that neurology is neutral to the issue of mystical cognitivity.\n\nInterest in mystical experiences and psychedelic drugs has also recently seen a resurgence.\n\nThe temporal lobe seems to be involved in mystical experiences, and in the change in personality that may result from such experiences. It generates the feeling of \"I,\" and gives a feeling of familiarity or strangeness to the perceptions of the senses. There is a long-standing notion that epilepsy and religion are linked, and some religious figures may have had temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE).\n\nThe anterior insula may be involved in ineffability, a strong feeling of certainty which cannot be expressed in words, which is a common quality in mystical experiences. According to Picard, this feeling of certainty may be caused by a dysfunction of the anterior insula, a part of the brain which is involved in interoception, self-reflection, and in avoiding uncertainty about the internal representations of the world by \"anticipation of resolution of uncertainty or risk\".\n\nA philosophical issue in the study of mysticism is the relation of mysticism to morality. Albert Schweitzer presented the classic account of mysticism and morality being incompatible. Arthur Danto also argued that morality is at least incompatible with Indian mystical beliefs. Walter Stace, on the other hand, argued not only are mysticism and morality compatible, but that mysticism is the source and justification of morality. Others studying multiple mystical traditions have concluded that the relation of mysticism and morality is not as simple as that.\n\nRichard King also points to disjunction between \"mystical experience\" and social justice:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEncyclopedias\n\nSpecific\n"}
{"id": "11217508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11217508", "title": "National Museum of Scotland", "text": "National Museum of Scotland\n\nThe National Museum of Scotland, Edinburgh, Scotland, was formed in 2006 with the merger of the new Museum of Scotland, with collections relating to Scottish antiquities, culture and history, and the adjacent Royal Museum (so renamed in 1995), with collections covering science and technology, natural history, and world cultures. The two connected buildings stand beside each other on Chambers Street, by the intersection with the George IV Bridge, in central Edinburgh. The museum is part of National Museums Scotland. Admission is free.\n\nThe two buildings retain distinctive characters: the Museum of Scotland is housed in a modern building opened in 1998, while the former Royal Museum building was begun in 1861, and partially opened in 1866, with a Victorian Venetian Renaissance facade and a grand central hall of cast iron construction that rises the full height of the building. This building underwent a major refurbishment and reopened on 29 July 2011 after a three-year, £47 million project to restore and extend the building led by Gareth Hoskins Architects along with the concurrent redesign of the exhibitions by Ralph Appelbaum Associates.\n\nThe National Museum incorporates the collections of the former National Museum of Antiquities of Scotland. As well as the national collections of Scottish archaeological finds and medieval objects, the museum contains artefacts from around the world, encompassing geology, archaeology, natural history, science, technology, art, and world cultures. The 16 new galleries reopened in 2011 include 8,000 objects, 80 per cent of which were not formerly on display. One of the more notable exhibits is the stuffed body of Dolly the sheep, the first successful clone of a mammal from an adult cell. Other highlights include Ancient Egyptian exhibitions, one of Elton John's extravagant suits and a large kinetic sculpture named the Millennium Clock. A Scottish invention that is a perennial favourite with school parties is The Maiden, an early form of guillotine.\n\nIn 2017, the museum received 2,165,601 visitors, making it Scotland's most popular visitor attraction that year.\n\nThe history of the museum can be said to begin in 1780 with the foundation of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, which still continues, but whose collection of archaeological and other finds was transferred to the government in 1858 as the National Museum of Antiquities of Scotland, based in Queen Street in the New Town, Edinburgh.\n\nIn 1861 construction of the Industrial Museum of Scotland began, with Prince Albert laying the foundation stone. In 1866, renamed the Edinburgh Museum of Science and Art, the eastern end and the Grand Gallery were opened by Prince Alfred. In 1888 the building was finished and in 1904 the institution was renamed the Royal Scottish Museum.\n\nThe organizational merger of the National Museum of Antiquities of Scotland and the Royal Scottish Museum took place in 1985, but the two collections retained separate buildings until 1995 when the Queen Street building closed, to reopen later as the Scottish National Portrait Gallery. In 1998 the new Museum of Scotland building opened, adjacent to the Royal Museum building, and connected to it. The masterplan to redevelop the Victorian building and further integrate the architecture and collections was launched in 2004, and in 2006 the two museums were formally merged as the National Museum of Scotland. The old Royal Museum building closed for redevelopment in 2008, before reopening in July 2011.\n\nThe Royal Scottish Museum displayed prank exhibits on April Fool's Day on at least one occasion. In 1975, a fictitious bird called the Bare-fronted Hoodwink (known for its innate ability to fly away from observers before they could accurately identify it) was put on display. The exhibit included photos of blurry birds flying away. To make the exhibit more convincing, a mount of the bird was sewn together by a taxidermist from various scraps of real birds, including the head of a carrion crow, the body of a plover, and the feet of an unknown waterfowl. The bare front was composed of wax.\n\nStaff at the museum took several days of strike action at points during 2015 and 2016, called by the Public and Commercial Services Union.\n\nConstruction was started in 1861 and proceeded in phases, with some sections opening before others had even begun construction. The original extent of the building was completed in 1888. It was designed by civil engineer Captain Francis Fowke of the Royal Engineers, who is also responsible for the Royal Albert Hall. The exterior, designed in a Venetian Renaissance style, contrasts sharply with the light-flooded main hall or Grand Gallery, inspired by The Crystal Palace.\n\nNumerous extensions at the rear of the building, particularly in the 1930s, extended the museum greatly. 1998 saw the opening of the Museum of Scotland, which is linked internally to the Royal Museum building. The major redevelopment completed in 2011 by Gareth Hoskins Architects uses former storage areas to form a vaulted Entrance Hall of 1400 sq M at street level with visitor facilities. This involved lowering the floor level by 1.2 metres. Despite being a Class A listed building, it was possible to add lifts and escalators.\n\nThe building is made up of geometric, Corbusian forms, but also has numerous references to Scotland, such as brochs and castellated, defensive architecture. It is clad in golden Moray sandstone, which one of its architects, Gordon Benson, has called \"the oldest exhibit in the building\", a reference to Scottish geology. The building was a 1999 Stirling Prize nominee.\n\nThe galleries in the newer building present Scottish history in an essentially chronological arrangement, beginning at the lowest level with prehistory to the early medieval period, with later periods on the higher levels. The Victorian building, as reopened in 2011, contains four zones (each with numerous galleries), covering natural history, world cultures (including galleries on the South Pacific, East Asia, and Ancient Egypt), European art and design, and science & technology. The Grand Gallery contains a variety of large objects from the collections, with a display called the \"Window on the World\" rising through four storeys, or about 20 metres, containing over 800 objects reflecting the breadth of the collections. Beyond the Grand Gallery at ground level is the \"Discoveries\" gallery, with objects connected to \"remarkable Scots ... in the fields of invention, exploration and adventure\". Notable artifacts include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7921689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7921689", "title": "Nazi archaeology", "text": "Nazi archaeology\n\nNazi archaeology was the movement led by various Nazi leaders, such as Adolf Hitler and Heinrich Himmler, archaeologists and other scholars to research the German past in order to strengthen nationalism.\n\nThe search for a strongly nationalistic, Aryan-centric national prehistory began after Germany's loss in World War I in 1918. At this point, the country faced a severe economic crisis due in part to the terms of the Treaty of Versailles. Later on, Hitler was behind the Nazi Party's funding for German pre-historical research. The first influential academic engaging in such research is said to be Gustaf Kossinna. His ideas and theories were picked up by the Nazi organisations Amt Rosenberg and Ahnenerbe. Presenting Germany as the place where civilisation began, the Nazis added pseudoarchaeology as part of its extensive propagandizing of the German people.\n\n\nThe Ahnenerbe Organisation, formally the \"Deutsches Ahnenerbe – Studiengesellschaft für Geistesurgeschichte\" (German Ancestry - Research Society for Ancient Intellectual History ) was an organisation started as the Research Institute for the Prehistory of Mind and was connected to the SS in 1935 by Walther Darre. In 1936 it was attached to Hitler's Reichsführer-SS and led by chief of police Heinrich Himmler. By 1937, it was the primary instrument of Nazi archaeology and archaeological propaganda, subsuming smaller organisations like Reinerth's Archaeology Group, and filling its ranks with \"investigators\". These included people like Herman Wirth, co-founder of the Ahnernerbe, who attempted to prove that Northern Europe was the cradle of Western civilisation. Although it included some real archaeologists with extreme views, such as Hans Reinerth and Oswald Meghin (who became high-ranking party officials due to their cooperation), much of the membership of Ahnenerbe were second-rate archaeologists or untrained researchers, backed up by amateur enthusiasts.\n\nThe main goals of the organisation were:\n\n\nAlthough the organisation claimed to have a research goal, Himmler had no official training in archaeology and was known for his interest in mysticism and the occult. Himmler defined the organisation as working towards a prehistory which would prove the pre-eminence of the Germans and their Germanic predecessors since the beginning of civilisation. He is quoted as saying, \"A nation lives happily in the present and the future so long as it is aware of its past and the greatness of its ancestors.\"\n\nThe Ahnenerbe had difficulty finding scientists to work on the projects and was run largely by scholars from branches of the humanities, which made their research more amateurish. The group went on to be responsible for pseudoarchaeology, illustrated by open-air displays honouring Germanic heritage such as the Externsteine, a sandstone formation that was thought to have been a key Germanic cult site. Another example is the Sachsenhain, where 4500 Saxons were executed as a punishment for Widukind's uprising. This site was used as an idealised shrine, considered sacred to the Germanic people and highlighting their readiness for self-sacrifice.\n\nMany other sites were censored from the public since they did not have the correct Germanic interpretations. The sites chosen for excavations were limited to those of Germanic superiority such as Erdenburg, were the Ahnenerbe claimed to have clear evidence of the victorious campaign of the Germani against the Romans.\n\nSome of the Ahnenerbe's most extravagant activities include:\n\n\nA smaller, more professional group of archaeologists, at least in their background and training, was led by Rosenberg and part of his Amt Rosenberg organisation, the \"Reichsbund für Deutsche Vorgeschichte\". It was staffed with archaeologists who signed on to some of Rosenberg's later thinking and theory. Rosenberg saw world history as shaped by the eternal fight between the 'Nordic Atlantic', the pure-blooded Nordic people of Atlantis, and the 'Semites', or Jewish people. To him, only the Germanic people brought culture to the world, while Jews brought evil. He speculated that the people of Germany were survivors from Atlantis who had migrated to Germany. He saw Germans as a distinct race, not only in biological terms but in mental phenomena and in their 'will to live'. Hence, he advocated 'race materialism', stating that only the fittest race (Aryans) should survive, a tenet that would later shape the Nazi policy on the Final Solution. The Amt Rosenberg was dedicated to finding archaeological evidence of the superiority of Germanic culture and of Atlantis, and in this it was much aided by (and in turn, gave aid to) the Thule Society.\n\nNazi archaeology was rarely conducted with an eye to pure research, but was a propaganda tool designed to both generate nationalistic pride in Germans and provide scientific excuses for conquest. The German people were drawn to the idea of Germany as the site of the origins of civilisation by several means. For one, there were a series of films put out by Lothar Zotz with titles like \"Threatened by the Steam Plough\", \"Germany's Bronze Age\", \"The Flames of Prehistory\" and \"On the Trail of the Eastern Germans\". These used the appeal of myths, olden times, and German triumph over change to reinforce the idea that German history was something to be proud of, while at the same time taking advantage of the fact that since these periods of history were little known to the general public, they could include heavy doses of propaganda.\n\nAdditionally, public journals gained popularity such as \"Die Kunde\" (The Message) and \"Germanen-Erbe\" (Germanic Heritage). With the journals and films, Germans thought they were being given good visuals and interpretations of different archaeological sites and learning more about 'true' German prehistory.\n\nThe Nazis also pushed the public to get involved in the search for the past, using the appeal of patriotism as a tool. For example, the membership flyer of one amateur organisation of the Amt Rosenberg stated, \"Responsibility with respect to our indigenous prehistory must again fill every German with pride!\" The goal of the organisation was also stated as, \"the interpretation and dissemination of unclassified knowledge regarding the history and cultural achievements of our northern Germanic ancestors on German and foreign soil.\"\n\nAlong with appealing to public patriotism there were open-air museums that reconstructed Neolithic and Bronze Age lake settlements at Unteruhldingen. These public museums also gained immense popularity and pushed the people to believe in and search for their Germanic past.\n\nAll of this, gathered together, created a skein of Germanic pride that was used to reinforce the nationalistic, fascist message Adolf Hitler was crafting with his speeches, open-air meetings, and public image.\n\nPrior to the formation of the Ahnenerbe, there was little funding for or interest in Germanic archaeology. This reality made it even easier for the Nazis to push their ethnocentric views onto the uninformed public, but the true effect was felt in some scholarly circles. German scholars who specialised in archaeology had long been envious of the advancements in archaeology their neighbors had made during their excavations in the Middle East; however, such archaeologists could do little.\n\nWith Hitler that changed: funds were made available for scholars to make great advancements beyond their neighboring countries. Under Nazi rule, archaeology went from having one chair in prehistory in Marburg in 1933 to having nine chairs in the Reich in 1935. Once archaeology started gaining popularity, scholars were also able to excavate castles, old ruins and the like, and bring back pieces for display in museums.\n\nOne example of those changes was that the \"Römisch-Germanisches Zentralmuseum\" (Romano-Germanic Central Museum) in Mainz in 1939 became for a time the \"Zentralmuseum für deutsche Vor- und Frühgeschichte\" (Central museum for German pre- and early history). (Note the difference between the original \"Römisch-Germanisch\" which denotes a historical period, and \"deutsche\", implying a continuous history and one people. \"Anglo-Saxon\" and \"English\" would be rough analogies.)\n\nIn their enthusiasm for the Nazi regime's support of archaeology, many German archaeologists became pawns and puppets of the real goals behind the movement. They answered to the requests of the Ahnenerbe, and not always in the interests of pure archaeology.\n\nThe nationalistic theories of Gustaf Kossinna about the origins and racial superiority of Germanic peoples influenced many aspects of Nazi ideology and politics. He is also considered to be a precursor of Nazi archaeology. Kossinna was trained as a linguist at universities in Göttingen, Leipzig, Berlin, and Strasbourg but eventually held the chair for Germanic Archeology at the University of Berlin. He laid the groundwork for an ethnocentric German prehistory. One of his theories, the \"Kulturkreis\" theory, was a basis on which Nazi archaeology was founded. Kossinna also published books for a general readership which were useful tools for German propaganda and created archaeological expeditions which allowed the Nazis to use Kulturkreis theory as an excuse for territorial expansion. In one of his most popular books, \"Die deutsche Vorgeschichte — eine hervorragend nationale Wissenschaft\" (German Prehistory: a Pre-eminently National Discipline), Kossinna puts forward the idea of an Aryan race superior to all peoples, the Germani, and shows Germany as the key to an unwritten history. The point of the book is clear from the beginning as the dedication reads, \"To the German people, as a building block in the reconstruction of the externally as well as internally disintegrated fatherland.\" Kossinna died in 1931, 13 months before Hitler seized power.\n\nAlfred Rosenberg was a Nazi Party ideologist who supported excavation and the study of provincial Roman Germany. He stated, as a summary of his research and thoughts, that \"An individual to whom the tradition of his people and the honor of his people is not a supreme value, has forfeited the right to be protected by that people.\" Rosenberg's perspective on German prehistory led mainly to racist distortion of data which did not directly apply to the Germanic people. Rosenberg's book \"Der Mythos des 20. Jahrhunderts\" (The Myth of the Twentieth Century) gave support to the concept of a new Germanic religion. Rosenberg's theory, Weltanschauungswissenschaften, was implicit in the idea that Germany had the right to crush other nations - or even exterminate them - since German culture was \"superior\". He also tried to prove that the Nordic-Aryans originated on a lost landmass identified with Atlantis, and that Jesus was not a Jew but an Aryan Amorite.\n\nHans Reinerth was the main archaeologist Rosenberg used. Reinerth is famous for his excavations at the Federsee and he saw the Nazi Party as a tool he could use to work his way up in society. This is just what occurred, and in 1934 Rosenberg appointed him to the position of \"Reich Deputy of German Prehistory\". This made him the spokesman for the \"purification and Germanisation of the German prehistory\". Reinerth was an adherent of Hitler's theory of German racial purity. Though this theory never really came into full effect, Reinerth pushed it heavily as Reich Deputy, and encouraged archaeological exploration. His archaeological group, along with the Ahnenerbe organisation, was used to the Nazis' full advantage since it was \"professional\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26482249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26482249", "title": "Neo-nationalism", "text": "Neo-nationalism\n\nNeo-nationalism or new nationalism is a type of nationalism that rose in the mid-2010s in Europe and North America and to some degree in other regions. It is associated with several positions, such as right-wing populism, anti-globalization, nativism, protectionism, opposition to immigration, opposition to Islam and Muslims and Euroscepticism where applicable. According to one scholar, \"nationalist resistance to global liberalism turned out to be the most influential force in Western politics\" in 2016. Particularly notable expressions of new nationalism include the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum and the election of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States.\n\nWriting for \"Politico\", Michael Hirsh described new nationalism as \"a bitter populist rejection of the status quo that global elites have imposed on the international system since the Cold War ended, and which lower-income voters have decided—understandably—is unfair.\" Michael Brendan Dougherty wrote in \"The Week\" that new nationalism is a \"broad nativist revolt\" against post-Cold War politics long \"characterized by an orthodoxy of free trade, nurturing the service economy, neoliberal trading arrangements, and liberalized immigration policies.\"\n\n\"The Economist\" wrote in November 2016 that \"new nationalists are riding high on promises to close borders and restore societies to a past homogeneity.\" Clarence Page wrote in the \"Las Vegas Sun\" that \"a new neo-tribal nationalism has boiled up in European politics and to a lesser degree in the United States since the global economic meltdown of 2008,\" and Ryan Cooper in \"The Week\" and researchers with the Centre for Economic Policy Research have linked 21st-century right-wing populism to the Great Recession. According to Harvard political theorist Yascha Mounk, \"economic stagnation among lower- and middle-class whites [has been] a main driver for nationalism's rise around the globe.\" According to religion scholar Mark L. Movesian, new nationalism \"sets the nation-state against supranational, liberal regimes like the EU or NAFTA, and local customs and traditions, including religious traditions, against alien, outside trends.\"\n\nDavid Brog and Yoram Hazony wrote in \"National Review\" that some conservatives view the new nationalism associated with Brexit and Donald Trump as a betrayal of conservative ideology while they see it as a \"return\". According to conservative commentator Jonah Goldberg, the nationalism associated with Trump is \"really little more than a brand name for generic white identity politics.\"\n\nWriting for \"The Week\", Damon Linker called the idea of neo-nationalism being racist \"nonsense\" and went on to say that \"the tendency of progressives to describe it as nothing but 'racism, Islamophobia, and xenophobia'—is the desire to delegitimize any particularistic attachment or form of solidarity, be it national, linguistic, religious, territorial, or ethnic.\"\n\nRegarding new nationalism, \"The Economist\" said that \"Mr Trump needs to realise that his policies will unfold in the context of other countries’ jealous nationalism,\" and called nationalism itself a \"slippery concept\" that is \"easy to manipulate\". They also repeatedly contrasted ethnic nationalism and civic nationalism and implied new nationalism could become \"angry\" and difficult to control, citing Chinese nationalism as an example.\n\nThe President-elect of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro (assumes office in 2019) of the country's Social Liberal Party has been described as a leading new nationalist.\n\nThe President of Mexico Andrés Manuel López Obrador (assumed office in 2018) of the country`s National Regeneration Movement has been decribed as a leading new nationalist.\n\nChina's paramount leader Xi Jinping's (assumed office in 2012) concept of \"Chinese Dream\" has been described as an expression of new nationalism.\n\nEgyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi (assumed office in 2014), has been described as a new nationalist.\n\nThe Hong Kong nationalism evolved from the localist movement in Hong Kong stresses the distinct Hong Kong identity as opposed to Chinese national identity promoted by the Beijing government and its growing encroachment on the city's management of its own political, economic and social affairs. The localist rhetorics, often mix with the nation's right to self-determination as well as anti-immigration stances against mainland immigrants and tourists, preserving local identity and culture similar to the Western new nationalism.\n\nHungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán (assumed office in 2010), the leader of the ruling Fidesz party, has been described as a new nationalist.\n\nIndian Prime Minister Narendra Modi (assumed office in 2014) and his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have been referred to as new nationalist. Modi is a member of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), a right-wing paramilitary organisation aligned with the BJP, which has also been said to advocate a new nationalist ideology.\n\nYogi Adityanath, Chief Minister of the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh (assumed office in 2017), has also been identified as a new nationalist. He has been touted as a future Prime Minister of the country.\n\nItalian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte (assumed office in 2018), head of the populist coalition Government of Change, and in particular Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister and the League's leader Matteo Salvini, were often described as new nationalists. Salvini has been described by some media outlets as the most powerful politician in the country, and a \"de facto prime minister\".\n\nGiorgia Meloni, the leader of Brothers of Italy, a party supporting the government on a case-by-case basis, has also been described as a new nationalist.\n\nThe 63rd and current Prime Minister Shinzō Abe (assumed office in 2012), a member of the right-wing organisation Nippon Kaigi, has promoted ideas of new nationalism, as does the Liberal Democratic Party of Japan, which he leads.\n\nPhilippine President Rodrigo Duterte (assumed office in 2016) has been described as a new nationalist.\n\nThe sixth and current President of Poland Andrzej Duda (assumed office in August 2015) is regularly cited as being a leading figure in the new nationalist movement within Poland. Furthermore, the ruling Law and Justice party, led by Jarosław Kaczyński, promoted nationalist views to win an outright majority in the national elections of 2015 (a feat never before accomplished). Despite not holding a government office, Kaczyński has been described as the figure who makes the \"final call\" on all major political issues in Poland.\n\nPresident of Russia Vladimir Putin (second President of Russia from 2000 to 2008 and fourth President of Russia from 2012) has been labelled a new nationalist. Putin has been described by Hirsh as \"the harbinger of this new global nationalism\". Charles Clover, the Moscow bureau chief of the \"Financial Times\" from 2008 to 2013, wrote a book in 2016 titled \"Black Wind, White Snow: The Rise of Russia's New Nationalism\".\n\nIn 2014, Mustafa Akyol wrote of a new \"brand of Turkish neonationalism\" promoted by Justice and Development Party (AKP), the country's ruling party, the leader of which is President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan (assumed office in 2014).\n\nDevlet Bahçeli, the leader of the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP), has been described as creating a \"new nationalist front\" by forming the People's Alliance with Erdoğan's AKP in 2018. The MHP is affiliated with the Grey Wolves paramilitary organisation, which Erdoğan has also expressed support for.\n\nThe 23 June 2016 referendum in the United Kingdom to leave the European Union (\"Brexit\") has been described as a milestone of new nationalism. Owen Matthews noted similarities in motives for support of the Brexit movement and Trump. He wrote in \"Newsweek\" that supporters of both are motivated by \"a yearning to control immigration, reverse globalization and restore national greatness by disengaging from the wide, threatening world\".\n\nMatt O'Brien wrote of the Brexit as \"the most shocking success for the new nationalism sweeping the Western world\". Leaders of the Brexit campaign, such as Nigel Farage, the leader of the eurosceptic UK Independence Party; former London Mayor Boris Johnson; Vote Leave Co-Convenor Michael Gove; former Brexit Secretary David Davis; and European Research Group chairman Jacob Rees-Mogg, have been called \"new nationalists\".\n\nDonald Trump's rise to the Republican candidacy was widely described as a sign of growing new nationalism in the United States. A \"Chicago Sun-Times\" editorial on the day of the inauguration of Donald Trump called him \"our new nationalist president\". The appointment of Steve Bannon, the executive of Breitbart News (associated with the alt-right), was described by one analyst as arousal of a \"new world order, driven by patriotism and a fierce urge to look after your own, a neo-nationalism that endlessly smears Muslims and strives to turn back the clock on free trade and globalization, a world where military might counts for far more than diplomacy and compromise\".\n\nIn the wake of Trump's election, U.S. Senator Marco Rubio has called for a \"new nationalism\" to oppose “economic elitism that has replaced a commitment to the dignity of work with a blind faith in financial markets and that views America simply as an economy instead of a nation.\"\n\nThe following politicians have all been described in some way as being new nationalists:\n\n\nThe following parties have all been described in some way as being new nationalist parties:\n\n"}
{"id": "22799652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22799652", "title": "Pavlopetri", "text": "Pavlopetri\n\nThe city of Pavlopetri (), underwater off the coast of southern Laconia in Peloponnese, Greece, is about 5,000 years old, and one of the oldest submerged lost cities and the oldest in the Mediterranean sea. \n\nThe name Pavlopetri (\"Paul's and Peter's\", or \"Paul's stone\") is the modern name for the islet and beach, apparently named for the two Christian saints who are celebrated together; the ancient name or names are unknown.\n\nDiscovered in 1967 by Nicholas Flemming and mapped in 1968 by a team of archaeologists from Cambridge, Pavlopetri is located between the Pavlopetri islet across the Elafonisos village and the Pounta coast. The coast, the archeological site as well as the islet and the surrounding sea area are within the region of the Elafonisos Municipality, the old “Onou Gnathos” peninsula (according to Pausanias). It is unique in having an almost complete town plan, including streets, buildings, and tombs.\n\nOriginally, the ruins were dated to the Mycenaean period, 1600–1100 BC but later studies showed an older occupation date starting no later than 2800 BC, so it also includes early Bronze Age middle Minoan and transitional material. It is now believed that the town was submerged around 1000 BC by the first of three earthquakes that the area suffered. The area never re-emerged, so it was neither built-over nor disrupted by agriculture. Although eroded over the centuries, the town layout is as it was thousands of years ago. The site is under threat of damage by boats dragging anchors, as well as by tourists and souvenir hunters.\n\nThe fieldwork of 2009 was largely to map the site. It is the first submerged town digitally surveyed in three dimensions. Sonar mapping techniques developed by military and oil prospecting organizations have aided recent work. The city has at least 15 buildings submerged in of water. The newest discoveries in 2009 alone cover .\n\nFour more fieldwork sessions were planned in October 2009, in collaboration with the Greek government as a joint project aimed at excavations. \nAlso working alongside the archaeologists (from the University of Nottingham) are a team from the Australian Centre for Field Robotics, who aim to take underwater archaeology into the 21st century. Several unique robots have been developed to survey the site in various ways. \nOne of the results of the survey was to establish that the town was the centre of a thriving textile industry (from the many loom weights found in the site). \nAlso many large pitharis pots (pottery jars) from Crete were excavated, indicating a major trading port.\n\nThe work of the British-Australian archaeological team was assembled in an hour-long BBC documentary video, \"City Beneath the Waves: Pavlopetri\", broadcast by BBC Two in 2011.\n\nThe city of Pavlopetri is part of the underwater cultural heritage as defined by the UNESCO in the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. All traces of human existence underwater which are one hundred years old or more are protected by the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. This convention aims at preventing the destruction or loss of historic and cultural information and looting. It helps states' parties to protect their underwater cultural heritage with an international legal framework.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "103895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103895", "title": "Pop art", "text": "Pop art\n\nPop art is an art movement that emerged in the United Kingdom and the United States during the mid- to late-1950s. The movement presented a challenge to traditions of fine art by including imagery from popular and mass culture, such as advertising, comic books and mundane cultural objects. One of its aims is to use images of \"popular\" (as opposed to elitist) culture in art, emphasizing the banal or kitschy elements of any culture, most often through the use of irony. It is also associated with the artists' use of mechanical means of reproduction or rendering techniques. In pop art, material is sometimes visually removed from its known context, isolated, or combined with unrelated material.\n\nAmong the early artists that shaped the pop art movement were Eduardo Paolozzi and Richard Hamilton in Britain, and Larry Rivers, Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns among others in the United States. Pop art is widely interpreted as a reaction to the then-dominant ideas of abstract expressionism, as well as an expansion of those ideas. Due to its utilization of found objects and images, it is similar to Dada. Pop art and minimalism are considered to be art movements that precede postmodern art, or are some of the earliest examples of postmodern art themselves.\n\nPop art often takes imagery that is currently in use in advertising. Product labeling and logos figure prominently in the imagery chosen by pop artists, seen in the labels of \"Campbell's Soup Cans\", by Andy Warhol. Even the labeling on the outside of a shipping box containing food items for retail has been used as subject matter in pop art, as demonstrated by Warhol's \"Campbell's Tomato Juice Box,\" 1964 (pictured).\n\nThe origins of pop art in North America developed differently from Great Britain. In the United States, pop art was a response by artists; it marked a return to hard-edged composition and representational art. They used impersonal, mundane reality, irony, and parody to \"defuse\" the personal symbolism and \"painterly looseness\" of abstract expressionism. In the U.S., some artwork by Larry Rivers, Alex Katz and Man Ray anticipated pop art.\n\nBy contrast, the origins of pop art in post-War Britain, while employing irony and parody, were more academic. Britain focused on the dynamic and paradoxical imagery of American pop culture as powerful, manipulative symbolic devices that were affecting whole patterns of life, while simultaneously improving the prosperity of a society. Early pop art in Britain was a matter of ideas fueled by American popular culture \"when viewed from afar\". Similarly, pop art was both an extension and a repudiation of Dadaism. While pop art and Dadaism explored some of the same subjects, pop art replaced the destructive, satirical, and anarchic impulses of the Dada movement with a detached affirmation of the artifacts of mass culture. Among those artists in Europe seen as producing work leading up to pop art are: Pablo Picasso, Marcel Duchamp, and Kurt Schwitters.\n\nAlthough both British and American pop art began during the 1950s, Marcel Duchamp and others in Europe like Francis Picabia and Man Ray predate the movement; in addition there were some earlier American \"proto-pop\" origins which utilized \"as found\" cultural objects. During the 1920s, American artists Patrick Henry Bruce, Gerald Murphy, Charles Demuth and Stuart Davis created paintings that contained pop culture imagery (mundane objects culled from American commercial products and advertising design), almost \"prefiguring\" the pop art movement.\n\nThe Independent Group (IG), founded in London in 1952, is regarded as the precursor to the pop art movement. They were a gathering of young painters, sculptors, architects, writers and critics who were challenging prevailing modernist approaches to culture as well as traditional views of fine art. Their group discussions centered on pop culture implications from elements such as mass advertising, movies, product design, comic strips, science fiction and technology. At the first Independent Group meeting in 1952, co-founding member, artist and sculptor Eduardo Paolozzi presented a lecture using a series of collages titled \"Bunk!\" that he had assembled during his time in Paris between 1947 and 1949. This material of \"found objects\" such as advertising, comic book characters, magazine covers and various mass-produced graphics mostly represented \"American\" popular culture. One of the collages in that presentation was Paolozzi's \"I was a Rich Man's Plaything\" (1947), which includes the first use of the word \"pop\", appearing in a cloud of smoke emerging from a revolver. Following Paolozzi's seminal presentation in 1952, the IG focused primarily on the imagery of American popular culture, particularly mass advertising.\n\nAccording to the son of John McHale, the term \"pop art\" was first coined by his father in 1954 in conversation with Frank Cordell, although other sources credit its origin to British critic Lawrence Alloway. (Both versions agree that the term was used in Independent Group discussions by mid-1955.)\n\n\"Pop art\" as a moniker was then used in discussions by IG members in the Second Session of the IG in 1955, and the specific term \"pop art\" first appeared in published print in the article \"But Today We Collect Ads\" by IG members Alison and Peter Smithson in Ark magazine in 1956. However, the term is often credited to British art critic/curator Lawrence Alloway for his 1958 essay titled \"The Arts and the Mass Media\", even though the precise language he uses is \"popular mass culture\". \"Furthermore, what I meant by it then is not what it means now. I used the term, and also 'Pop Culture' to refer to the products of the mass media, not to works of art that draw upon popular culture. In any case, sometime between the winter of 1954-55 and 1957 the phrase acquired currency in conversation...\" Nevertheless, Alloway was one of the leading critics to defend the inclusion of the imagery of mass culture in the fine arts. Alloway clarified these terms in 1966, at which time Pop Art had already transited from art schools and small galleries to a major force in the artworld. But its success had not been in England. Practically simultaneously, and independently, New York City had become the hotbed for Pop Art.\n\nIn London, the annual Royal Society of British Artists (RBA) exhibition of young talent in 1960 first showed American pop influences. In January 1961, the most famous RBA-\"Young Contemporaries\" of all put David Hockney, the American R B Kitaj, New Zealander Billy Apple, Allen Jones, Derek Boshier, Joe Tilson, Patrick Caulfield, Peter Phillips and Peter Blake on the map; Apple designed the posters and invitations for both the 1961 and 1962 Young Contemporaries exhibitions. Hockney, Kitaj and Blake went on to win prizes at the John-Moores-Exhibition in Liverpool in the same year. Apple and Hockney traveled together to New York during the Royal College's 1961 summer break, which is when Apple first made contact with Andy Warhol – both later moved to the United States and Apple became involved with the New York pop art scene.\n\nAlthough pop art began in the early 1950s, in America it was given its greatest impetus during the 1960s. The term \"pop art\" was officially introduced in December 1962; the occasion was a \"Symposium on Pop Art\" organized by the Museum of Modern Art. By this time, American advertising had adopted many elements and inflections of modern art and functioned at a very sophisticated level. Consequently, American artists had to search deeper for dramatic styles that would distance art from the well-designed and clever commercial materials. As the British viewed American popular culture imagery from a somewhat removed perspective, their views were often instilled with romantic, sentimental and humorous overtones. By contrast, American artists, bombarded every day with the diversity of mass-produced imagery, produced work that was generally more bold and aggressive.\n\nTwo important painters in the establishment of America's pop art vocabulary were Jasper Johns and Robert Rauschenberg. While the paintings of Rauschenberg have relationships to the earlier work of Kurt Schwitters and other Dada artists, his concern was for the social issues of the moment. His approach was to create art out of ephemeral materials. By using topical events in the life of everyday America, he gave his work a unique quality. Johns' and Rauschenberg's work of the 1950s is classified as Neo-Dada, and is visually distinct from the prototypical American pop art which exploded in the early 1960s.\nRoy Lichtenstein is of equal importance to American pop art. His work, and its use of parody, probably defines the basic premise of pop art better than any other. Selecting the old-fashioned comic strip as subject matter, Lichtenstein produces a hard-edged, precise composition that documents while also parodying in a soft manner. Lichtenstein used oil and Magna paint in his best known works, such as \"Drowning Girl\" (1963), which was appropriated from the lead story in DC Comics' \"Secret Hearts\" #83. (\"Drowning Girl\" is part of the collection of the Museum of Modern Art.) His work features thick outlines, bold colors and Ben-Day dots to represent certain colors, as if created by photographic reproduction. Lichtenstein said, \"[abstract expressionists] put things down on the canvas and responded to what they had done, to the color positions and sizes. My style looks completely different, but the nature of putting down lines pretty much is the same; mine just don't come out looking calligraphic, like Pollock's or Kline's.\" Pop art merges popular and mass culture with fine art while injecting humor, irony, and recognizable imagery/content into the mix.\n\nThe paintings of Lichtenstein, like those of Andy Warhol, Tom Wesselmann and others, share a direct attachment to the commonplace image of American popular culture, but also treat the subject in an impersonal manner clearly illustrating the idealization of mass production. \n\nAndy Warhol is probably the most famous figure in pop art. In fact, art critic Arthur Danto once called Warhol \"the nearest thing to a philosophical genius the history of art has produced\". Warhol attempted to take pop beyond an artistic style to a life style, and his work often displays a lack of human affectation that dispenses with the irony and parody of many of his peers.\n\nClaes Oldenburg, Jim Dine and Tom Wesselmann had their first shows in the Judson Gallery in 1959 and 1960 and later in 1960 through 1964 along with James Rosenquist, George Segal and others at the Green Gallery on 57th Street in Manhattan. In 1960, Martha Jackson showed installations and assemblages, \"New Media - New Forms\" featured Hans Arp, Kurt Schwitters, Jasper Johns, Claes Oldenburg, Robert Rauschenberg, Jim Dine and May Wilson. 1961 was the year of Martha Jackson's spring show, \"Environments, Situations, Spaces\". Andy Warhol held his first solo exhibition in Los Angeles in July 1962 at Irving Blum's Ferus Gallery, where he showed 32 paintings of Campell's soup cans, one for every flavor. Warhol sold the set of paintings to Blum for $1,000; in 1996, when the Museum of Modern Art acquired it, the set was valued at $15 million.\n\nDonald Factor, the son of Max Factor Jr., and an art collector and co-editor of avant-garde literary magazine \"Nomad\", wrote an essay in the magazine's last issue, \"Nomad/New York\". The essay was one of the first on what would become known as pop art, though Factor did not use the term. The essay, \"Four Artists\", focused on Roy Lichtenstein, James Rosenquist, Jim Dine, and Claes Oldenburg.\n\nIn the 1960s, Oldenburg, who became associated with the pop art movement, created many \"happenings\", which were performance art-related productions of that time. The name he gave to his own productions was \"Ray Gun Theater\". The cast of colleagues in his performances included: artists Lucas Samaras, Tom Wesselmann, Carolee Schneemann, Öyvind Fahlström and Richard Artschwager; dealer Annina Nosei; art critic Barbara Rose; and screenwriter Rudy Wurlitzer. His first wife, Patty Mucha, who sewed many of his early soft sculptures, was a constant performer in his happenings. This brash, often humorous, approach to art was at great odds with the prevailing sensibility that, by its nature, art dealt with \"profound\" expressions or ideas. In December 1961, he rented a store on Manhattan's Lower East Side to house \"The Store\", a month-long installation he had first presented at the Martha Jackson Gallery in New York, stocked with sculptures roughly in the form of consumer goods.\n\nOpening in 1962, Willem de Kooning's New York art dealer, the Sidney Janis Gallery, organized the groundbreaking \"International Exhibition of the New Realists\", a survey of new-to-the-scene American, French, Swiss, Italian \"New Realism\", and British pop art. The fifty-four artists shown included Richard Lindner, Wayne Thiebaud, Roy Lichtenstein (and his painting Blam), Andy Warhol, Claes Oldenburg, James Rosenquist, Jim Dine, Robert Indiana, Tom Wesselmann, George Segal, Peter Phillips, Peter Blake (\"The Love Wall\" from 1961), Yves Klein, Arman, Daniel Spoerri, Christo and Mimmo Rotella. The show was seen by Europeans Martial Raysse, Niki de Saint Phalle and Jean Tinguely in New York, who were stunned by the size and look of the American artwork. Also shown were Marisol, Mario Schifano, Enrico Baj and Öyvind Fahlström. Janis lost some of his abstract expressionist artists when Mark Rothko, Robert Motherwell, Adolph Gottlieb and Philip Guston quit the gallery, but gained Dine, Oldenburg, Segal and Wesselmann. At an opening-night soiree thrown by collector Burton Tremaine, Willem de Kooning appeared and was turned away by Tremaine, who ironically owned a number of de Kooning's works. Rosenquist recalled: \"at that moment I thought, something in the art world has definitely changed\". Turning away a respected abstract artist proved that, as early as 1962, the pop art movement had begun to dominate art culture in New York.\n\nA bit earlier, on the West Coast, Roy Lichtenstein, Jim Dine and Andy Warhol from New York City; Phillip Hefferton and Robert Dowd from Detroit; Edward Ruscha and Joe Goode from Oklahoma City; and Wayne Thiebaud from California were included in the \"New Painting of Common Objects\" show. This first pop art museum exhibition in America was curated by Walter Hopps at the Pasadena Art Museum. Pop art was ready to change the art world. New York followed Pasadena in 1963, when the Guggenheim Museum exhibited \"Six Painters and the Object\", curated by Lawrence Alloway. The artists were Jim Dine, Jasper Johns, Roy Lichtenstein, Robert Rauschenberg, James Rosenquist, and Andy Warhol. Another pivotal early exhibition was \"The American Supermarket\" organised by the Bianchini Gallery in 1964. The show was presented as a typical small supermarket environment, except that everything in it—the produce, canned goods, meat, posters on the wall, etc.—was created by prominent pop artists of the time, including Apple, Warhol, Lichtenstein, Wesselmann, Oldenburg, and Johns. This project was recreated in 2002 as part of the Tate Gallery's \"Shopping: A Century of Art and Consumer Culture\".\n\nBy 1962, pop artists started exhibiting in commercial galleries in New York and Los Angeles; for some, it was their first commercial one-man show. The Ferus Gallery presented Andy Warhol in Los Angeles (and Ed Ruscha in 1963). In New York, the Green Gallery showed Rosenquist, Segal, Oldenburg, and Wesselmann. The Stable Gallery showed R. Indiana and Warhol (in his first New York show). The Leo Castelli Gallery presented Rauschenberg, Johns, and Lichtenstein. Martha Jackson showed Jim Dine and Allen Stone showed Wayne Thiebaud. By 1966, after the Green Gallery and the Ferus Gallery closed, the Leo Castelli Gallery represented Rosenquist, Warhol, Rauschenberg, Johns, Lichtenstein and Ruscha. The Sidney Janis Gallery represented Oldenburg, Segal, Dine, Wesselmann and Marisol, while Allen Stone continued to represent Thiebaud, and Martha Jackson continued representing Robert Indiana.\n\nIn 1968, the \"São Paulo 9 Exhibition – Environment U.S.A.: 1957–1967\" featured the \"Who's Who\" of pop art. Considered as a summation of the \"classical phase\" of the American pop art period, the exhibit was curated by William Seitz. The artists were Edward Hopper, James Gill, Robert Indiana, Jasper Johns, Roy Lichtenstein, Claes Oldenburg, Robert Rauschenberg, Andy Warhol and Tom Wesselmann.\n\n\"Nouveau réalisme\" refers to an artistic movement founded in 1960 by the art critic Pierre Restany and the artist Yves Klein during the first collective exposition in the Apollinaire gallery in Milan. Pierre Restany wrote the original manifesto for the group, titled the \"Constitutive Declaration of New Realism,\" in April 1960, proclaiming, \"Nouveau Réalisme—new ways of perceiving the real.\" This joint declaration was signed on 27 October 1960, in Yves Klein's workshop, by nine people: Yves Klein, Arman, Martial Raysse, Pierre Restany, Daniel Spoerri, Jean Tinguely and the Ultra-Lettrists, Francois Dufrêne, Raymond Hains, Jacques de la Villeglé; in 1961 these were joined by César, Mimmo Rotella, then Niki de Saint Phalle and Gérard Deschamps. The artist Christo showed with the group. It was dissolved in 1970.\n\nContemporary of American Pop Art—often conceived as its transposition in France—new realism was along with Fluxus and other groups one of the numerous tendencies of the avant-garde in the 1960s. The group initially chose Nice, on the French Riviera, as its home base since Klein and Arman both originated there; new realism is thus often retrospectively considered by historians to be an early representative of the movement. In spite of the diversity of their plastic language, they perceived a common basis for their work; this being a method of direct appropriation of reality, equivalent, in the terms used by Restany; to a \"poetic recycling of urban, industrial and advertising reality\".\n\nIn Spain, the study of pop art is associated with the \"new figurative\", which arose from the roots of the crisis of informalism. Eduardo Arroyo could be said to fit within the pop art trend, on account of his interest in the environment, his critique of our media culture which incorporates icons of both mass media communication and the history of painting, and his scorn for nearly all established artistic styles. However, the Spanish artist who could be considered most authentically part of \"pop\" art is Alfredo Alcaín, because of the use he makes of popular images and empty spaces in his compositions.\n\nAlso in the category of Spanish pop art is the \"Chronicle Team\" (\"El Equipo Crónica\"), which existed in Valencia between 1964 and 1981, formed by the artists Manolo Valdés and Rafael Solbes. Their movement can be characterized as \"pop\" because of its use of comics and publicity images and its simplification of images and photographic compositions. Filmmaker Pedro Almodóvar emerged from Madrid's \"La Movida\" subculture of the 1970s making low budget super 8 pop art movies, and he was subsequently called the Andy Warhol of Spain by the media at the time. In the book \"Almodovar on Almodovar\", he is quoted as saying that the 1950s film \"Funny Face\" was a central inspiration for his work. One pop trademark in Almodovar's films is that he always produces a fake commercial to be inserted into a scene.\n\nIn Japan, pop art evolved from the nation's prominent avant-garde scene. The use of images of the modern world, copied from magazines in the photomontage-style paintings produced by Harue Koga in the late 1920s and early 1930s, foreshadowed elements of pop art. The work of Yayoi Kusama contributed to the development of pop art and influenced many other artists, including Andy Warhol. In the mid-1960s, graphic designer Tadanori Yokoo became one of the most successful pop artists and an international symbol for Japanese pop art. He is well known for his advertisements and creating artwork for pop culture icons such as commissions from The Beatles, Marilyn Monroe, and Elizabeth Taylor, among others. Another leading pop artist at that time was Keiichi Tanaami. Iconic characters from Japanese manga and anime have also become symbols for pop art, such as Speed Racer and Astro Boy. Japanese manga and anime also influenced later pop artists such as Takashi Murakami and his superflat movement.\n\nIn Italy, by 1964, pop art was known and took different forms, such as the \"Scuola di Piazza del Popolo\" in Rome, with pop artists such as Mario Schifano, Franco Angeli, Giosetta Fioroni, Tano Festa, Claudio Cintoli, and some artworks by Piero Manzoni, Lucio Del Pezzo, Mimmo Rotella and Valerio Adami.\n\nItalian pop art originated in 1950s culture – the works of the artists Enrico Baj and Mimmo Rotella to be precise, rightly considered the forerunners of this scene. In fact, it was around 1958–1959 that Baj and Rotella abandoned their previous careers (which might be generically defined as belonging to a \"non-representational genre\", despite being thoroughly post-Dadaist), to catapult themselves into a new world of images, and the reflections on them, which was springing up all around them. Rotella's torn posters showed an ever more figurative taste, often explicitly and deliberately referring to the great icons of the times. Baj's compositions were steeped in contemporary \"kitsch\", which turned out to be a \"gold mine\" of images and the stimulus for an entire generation of artists.\n\nThe novelty came from the new visual panorama, both inside \"domestic walls\" and out-of-doors. Cars, road signs, television, all the \"new world\", everything can belong to the world of art, which itself is new. In this respect, Italian pop art takes the same ideological path as that of the international scene. The only thing that changes is the iconography and, in some cases, the presence of a more critical attitude toward it. Even in this case, the prototypes can be traced back to the works of Rotella and Baj, both far from neutral in their relationship with society. Yet this is not an exclusive element; there is a long line of artists, including Gianni Ruffi, Roberto Barni, Silvio Pasotti, Umberto Bignardi, and Claudio Cintoli, who take on reality as a toy, as a great pool of imagery from which to draw material with disenchantment and frivolity, questioning the traditional linguistic role models with a renewed spirit of \"let me have fun\" à la Aldo Palazzeschi.\n\nIn Belgium, pop art was represented by Paul Van Hoeydonck, whose sculpture \"Fallen Astronaut\" was left on the moon during one of the moon missions. Internationally recognized artists such as Marcel Broodthaers (\" 'vous êtes doll? \"\") and Panamarenko are indebted to the pop art movement; Broodthaers's great influence was George Segal. Another well-known artist, Roger Raveel, mounted a birdcage with a real live pigeon in one of his paintings. By the end of the 1960s and early 1970s, pop art references disappeared from the work of these artists when they started to adopt a more critical attitude towards America because of the Vietnam War's increasingly gruesome character. Panamarenko, however, has retained the irony inherent in the pop art movement up to the present day.\n\nWhile there was no formal pop art movement in the Netherlands, there were a group of artists that spent time in New York during the early years of pop art, and drew inspiration from the international pop art movement. Representatives of Dutch pop art include Daan van Golden, Gustave Asselbergs, Jacques Frenken, Jan Cremer, Wim T. Schippers, and Woody van Amen. They opposed the Dutch petit bourgeois mentality by creating humorous works with a serious undertone. Examples of this nature include \"Sex O'Clock,\" by Woody van Amen, and \"Crucifix / Target\", by Jacques Frenken.\n\nRussia was a little late to become part of the pop art movement, and some of the artwork that resembles pop art only surfaced around the early 1970s. Russia was a communist country at that point and bold artistic statements were closely monitored. Russia's own version of pop art was Soviet-themed and was referred to as \"Sots Art\". After 1991, the Communist Party lost its power and the Russian revolution was beginning, and with it came a freedom to express. That is when pop art in Russia took on another form, epitomised by Dmitri Vrubel with his painting titled \"My God, Help Me to Survive This Deadly Love\" in 1990. One might argue that the Soviet posters made in the 1950s to promote the wealth of the nation were in itself a form of pop art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33548970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33548970", "title": "Racial inequality in the United States", "text": "Racial inequality in the United States\n\nRacial inequality in the United States refers to social advantages and disparities that affect different races within the United States. These inequities may be manifested in the distribution of wealth, power, and life opportunities afforded to people based on their race or ethnicity, both historic and modern. These can also be seen as a result of historic oppression, inequality of inheritance, or overall prejudice, especially against minority groups.\n\nIn social science, racial inequality is typically analyzed as \"imbalances in the distribution of power, economic resources, and opportunities.\" Racial inequalities have manifested in American society in ways ranging from racial disparities in wealth, poverty rates, housing patterns, educational opportunities, unemployment rates, and incarceration rates. Some claim that current racial inequalities in the U.S. have their roots in over 300 years of cultural, economic, physical, legal, and political discrimination based on race.\n\nThere are vast differences in wealth across racial groups in the United States. The wealth gap between white and African-American families nearly tripled from $85,000 in 1984 to $236,500 in 2009. There are many causes, including years of home ownership, household income, unemployment, and education, but inheritance might be the most important.\n\nA study by the Brandeis University Institute on Assets and Social Policy which followed the same sets of families for 25 years found that there are vast differences in wealth across racial groups in the United States. The wealth gap between Caucasian and African-American families studied nearly tripled, from $85,000 in 1984 to $236,500 in 2009. The study concluded that factors contributing to the inequality included years of home ownership (27%), household income (20%), education (5%), and familial financial support and/or inheritance (5%).\nWealth can be defined as \"the total value of things families own minus their debts.\" In contrast, income can be defined as, \"earnings from work, interest and dividends, pensions, and transfer payments.\" Wealth is an important factor in determining the quality of both individual and family life chances because it can be used as a tool to secure a desired quality of life or class status and enables individuals who possess it to pass their class status to their children. Family inheritance, which is passed down from generation to generation, helps with wealth accumulation. Wealth can also serve as a safety net against fluctuations in income and poverty.\n\nThere is a large gap between the wealth of minority households and White households within the United States. The Pew Research Center's analysis of 2009 government data says the median wealth of white households is 20 times that of black households and 18 times that of Hispanic households. In 2009 the typical black household had $5,677 in wealth, the typical Hispanic had $6,325, and the typical White household had $113,149. Furthermore, 35% of African American and 31% of Hispanic households had zero or negative net worth in 2009 compared to 15% of White households. While in 2005 median Asian household wealth was greater than White households at $168,103, by 2009 that changed when their net worth fell 54% to $78,066, partially due to the arrival of new Asian immigrants since 2004; not including newly arrived immigrants, Asian net wealth only dropped 31%. As shown on \"Eurweb - Electronic Urban Report\" According to the Federal Reserve Survey of Consumer Finances, of the 14 million black households, only 5% have more than $350,000 in net worth while nearly 30% of white families have more than this amount. Less than 1% of black families have over a million in net assets. while nearly 10% of white households, totaling over 8 million families have more than 1.3 million in net worth.\n\nLusardi states that African Americans and Hispanics are more likely to face means-tested programs that discourage asset possession due to higher poverty rates. One-fourth of African Americans and Hispanics approach retirement with less than $1,000 net worth (without considering pensions and Social Security). Lower financial literacy is correlated with poor savings and adjustment behavior. Education is a strong predictor for wealth. One-fourth of African Americans and Hispanics that have less than a high school education have no wealth, but even with increased education, large differences in wealth remain.\n\nConley believes that the cause of Black-White wealth inequality may be related to economic circumstances and poverty because the economic disadvantages of African Americans can be effective in harming efforts to accumulate wealth. However, there is a five times greater chance of downward mobility from the top quartile to the bottom quartile for African Americans than there is for White Americans; correspondingly, African Americans rise to the top quartile from the bottom quartile at half the rate of White Americans. Bowles and Gintis conclude from this information that successful African Americans do not transfer the factors for their success as effectively as White Americans do. \nOther factors to consider in the recent widening of the minority wealth gap are the mortgage crisis and credit crunch that began in 2007-2008. The Pew Research Center found that plummeting house values were the main cause of the wealth change from 2005 to 2009. Hispanics were hit the hardest by the housing market meltdown possibly because a disproportionate share of Hispanics live in California, Florida, Nevada, and Arizona, which are among the states with the steepest declines in housing values. From 2005 to 2009 Hispanic homeowners' home equity declined by Half, from $99,983 to $49,145, with homeownership rate decreasing by 4% to 47%. A 2015 Measure of America study commissioned by the ACLU on the long-term consequences of discriminatory lending practices found that the financial crisis will likely widen the black-white wealth gap for the next generation.\n\nAfricans were first brought to the United States as slaves. While free African-Americans owned around $50 million by 1860, farm tenancy and sharecropping replaced slavery after the American Civil War because newly freed African American farmers did not own land or supplies and had to depend on the White Americans who rented the land and supplies out to them. At the same time, southern Blacks were trapped in debt and denied banking services while White citizens were given low interest loans to set up farms in the Midwest and Western United States. White homesteaders were able to go West and obtain unclaimed land through government grants, while the land grants and rights of African Americans were rarely enforced.\n\nAfter the Civil War the Freedman's Bank helped to foster wealth accumulation for African Americans. However, it failed in 1874, partially because of suspicious high-risk loans to White banks and the Panic of 1873. This lowered the support African Americans had to open businesses and acquire wealth. In addition, after the bank failed, taking the assets of many African Americans with it, many African Americans did not trust banks. There was also the threat of lynching to any African American who achieved success.\n\nIn addition, when Social Security was first created during the Great Depression, it exempted agricultural and domestic workers, which disproportionately affected African Americans and Hispanics. Consequently, the savings of retired or disabled African Americans was spent during old age instead of handed down and households had to support poor elderly family members. The Homeowner's Loan Corporation that helped homeowners during the Great Depression gave African American neighborhoods the lowest rating, ensuring that they defaulted at greater rates than White Americans. The Federal Housing Authority (FHA) and Veteran's Administration (VA) shut out African Americans by giving loans to suburbs instead of central cities after they were first founded.\n\nBowman states that \"in the United States, the most significant aspect of multigenerational wealth distribution comes in the forms of gifts and inheritances.\" However, the multigenerational absence of wealth and asset attainment for African Americans makes it almost impossible for them to make significant contributions of wealth to the next generation. Data shows that financial inheritances could account for 10 to 20 percent of the difference between African American and White American household wealth.\n\nUsing the Health and Retirement Study (HRS) of 1992 Avery and Rendall estimated that only around one-tenth of African Americans reported receiving inheritances or substantial inter vivo transfers ($5,000 or more) compared to one-third of White Americans. In addition, the 1989 Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF) reported that the mean and median values of those money transfers were significantly higher for White American households: the mean was $148,578 households compared to $85,598 for African American households and the median was $58,839 to $42,478. The large differences in wealth in the parent-generations were a dominant factor in prediction the differences between African American and White American prospective inheritances. Avery and Rendall used 1989 SCF data to discover that the mean value in 2002 of White Americans' inheritances was 5.46 times that of African Americans', compared to 3.65 that of current wealth. White Americans received a mean of $28,177 that accounted for 20.7% of their mean wealth while African Americans received a mean of $5,165 that accounted for 13.9% of their mean current wealth. Non-inherited wealth was more equally distributed than inherited wealth.\n\nAvery and Rendall found that family attributes favored White Americans when it came to factor influencing the amount of inheritances. African Americans were 7.3% less likely to have live parents, 24.5% more likely to have three or more siblings, and 30.6% less likely to be married or cohabiting (meaning there are two people who could gain inheritances to contribute to the household) Keister discovered that large family size has a negative effect on wealth accumulation. These negative effects are worse for the poor and African Americans and Hispanics are more likely to be poor and have large families. More children also decrease the amount of gifts parents can give and the inheritance they leave behind for the children.\n\nAngel's research into inheritance showed that older Mexican American parents may give less financial assistance to their children than non-Hispanic White Americans because of their relatively high fertility rate so children have to compete for the available money. There are studies that indicate that elderly Hispanic parents of all backgrounds live with their adult children due to poverty and would choose to do otherwise, even if they had the resources to do so. African American and Latino families are less likely to financially aid adult children than non-Hispanic White families.\n\nThe racial wealth gap is visible in terms of dollar for dollar wage and wealth comparisons. For example, middle-class Blacks earn seventy cents for every dollar earned by similar middle-class Whites. Race can be seen as the \"strongest predictor\" of one's wealth.\n\nEven at similar education levels, minorities typically earn less than whites. Education may boost earnings less for minorities than for whites, although all groups typically see benefits from additional education.\n\nKrivo and Kaufman found that information supporting the fact that increases in income does not affect wealth as much for minorities as it does for White Americans. For example, a $10,000 increase in income for White Americans increases their home equity $17,770 while the same increase only increase the home equities for Asians by $9,500, Hispanics by $15,150, and African Americans by $15,900.\n\nConley states that differences between African American and White American wealth begin because people with higher asset levels can take advantage of riskier investment instruments with higher rates of returns. Unstable income flows may lead to \"cashing in\" of assets or accumulation of debt over time, even if the time-averaged streams of income and savings are the same. African Americans may be less likely to invest in the stock market because they have a smaller parental head-start and safety net.\n\nChong, Phillips and Phillips state that African Americans, Hispanics, and Asians invest less heavily in stocks than White Americans. Hispanics and in some ways African Americans accumulate wealth slower than White Americans because of preference for near-term saving, favoring liquidity and low investment risk at the expense of higher yielding assets. These preferences may be due to low financial literacy leading to a lack of demand for investment services. According to Lusardi, even though the stock market increased in value in the 1990s, only 6-7% of African Americans and Hispanics held stocks, so they did not benefit as much from the value increase.\n\nThe Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in 2009 found that 7.7% of United States households are \"unbanked\". Minorities are more likely than White Americans to not have a banking account. 3.5% of Asians, 3.3% of White Americans, 21.7% of African Americans and 19.3% of Hispanics and 15.6% of remaining racial/ethnic categories do not have banking accounts.\n\nLusardi's research revealed that education increases one's chances of having a banking account. A full high school education increases the chance of having a checking account by 15% compared to only an elementary education; having a parent with a high school education rather than only an elementary education increases one's chances of having a checking account by 2.8%. This difference in education level may explain the large proportion of \"unbanked\" Hispanics. The 2002 National Longitudinal Survey found that while only 3% of White Americans and 4% of African Americans had only an elementary education, close to 20% of Hispanics did and 43% of Hispanics had less than a high school education Ibarra and Rodriguez believe that another factor that influences the Hispanic use of banking accounts is credit. Latinos are also more likely than White Americans or African Americans to have no or a thin credit history: 22% of Latinos have no credit score in comparison to 4% of White Americans and 3% of African Americans.\n\nNot taking other variables into account, Chong, Phillips, and Phillips survey of zip codes found that minority neighborhoods don't have the same access to financial planning services as White neighborhoods. There is also client segregation by investable assets. More than 80% of financial advisors prefer that clients have at least $100,000 in investable assets and more than 50% have a minimum asset requirement of $500,000 or above. Because of this, financial planning is possibly beyond the reach of those with low income, which comprises a large portion of African-Americans and Hispanics.\nFear of discrimination is another possible factor. Minorities may be distrustful of banks and lack of trust was commonly reported as why minorities, people with low education, and the poor chose not to have banking accounts.\n\nThere are large differences in poverty rates across racial groups. In 2009, the poverty rate was 9.9% for non-Hispanic Whites, 12.1% for Asians, 26.6% for Hispanics, and 27.4% for Blacks. This data illustrates that Hispanics and Blacks experience disproportionately high percentages of poverty in comparison to non-Hispanics Whites and Asians. In discussing poverty, it is important to distinguish between episodic poverty and chronic poverty.\n\nThe U.S. Census Bureau defines episodic poverty as living in poverty for less than 36 consecutive months. From the period between 2004 and 2006 the episodic poverty rate was 22.6% for non-Hispanic Whites, 44.5% for Blacks, and 45.8% for Hispanics. Blacks and Hispanics experience rates of episodic poverty that are nearly double the rates of non-Hispanic Whites.\n\nThe U.S. Census Bureau defines chronic poverty as living in poverty for 36 or more consecutive months. From the period between 2004 and 2006 the chronic poverty rate was 1.4% for non-Hispanic Whites, 4.5% for Hispanics, and 8.4% for Blacks. Hispanics and Blacks experience much higher rates of chronic poverty when compared to non-Hispanic Whites.\n\nThe U.S. Census Bureau defines length of poverty spell as the number of months spent in poverty. The median length of poverty spells was 4 months for non-Hispanic Whites, 5.9 months for Blacks, and 6.2 months for Hispanics. The length of time spent in poverty varies by race. Non-Hispanic Whites experience the shortest length of poverty spells when compared to Blacks and Hispanics.\n\nAbout 25% of African-Americans own a house in America.\nHome ownership is a crucial means by which families can accumulate wealth. Over a period of time, homeowners accumulate home equity in their homes. In turn, this equity can contribute substantially to the wealth of homeowners. In summary, homeownership allows for the accumulation of home equity, a source of wealth, and provides families with insurance against poverty. Ibarra and Rodriguez state that home equity is 61% of the net worth of Hispanic homeowners, 38.5% of the net worth of White homeowners, and 63% of the net worth of African-American homeowners. Conley remarks that differences in rates of home ownership and housing value accrual may lead to lower net worth in the parental generation, which disadvantages the next.\n\nThere are large disparities in homeownership rates by race. In 2017, the homeownership rate was 72.5% for non-Hispanic Whites, 46.1% for Hispanics, and 42.0% for Blacks. From this data, non-Hispanic Whites own homes at a much higher rate that all other races, while Hispanics and Blacks own homes at much lower rates. This means that a high percentage of Hispanic and Black populations do not receive the benefits, such as wealth accumulation and insurance against poverty, that owning a home provides.\n\nThere is a discrepancy in relation to race in terms of housing value. On average, the economic value of Black-owned units is 35% less than similar White-owned units. Thus, on average, Black-owned units sell for 35% less than similar White-owned units. Krivo and Kaufman state that while median home value of White Americans is at least $20,000 more than that of African Americans and Hispanics, these differences are not a result of group differences in length of residences because Asians have the most equity on their homes but have lived in them for the shortest average period. African American and Hispanic mortgage holders are 1.5 to 2.5 times more likely to pay 9% or more on interest. Krivo and Kaufman calculate that the African-American/White gap in mortgage interest rates is 0.39%, which translates to a difference of $5,749 on the median home loan payment of a 30-year mortgage of a $53,882 home. The Hispanic/White gap (0.17%) translates to Hispanics paying $3,441 more on a 30-year mortgage on the median valued Hispanic home loan of $80,000. The authors conclude that the extra money could have been reinvested into wealth accumulation.\n\nKrivo and Kaufman also postulate that the types of mortgage loans minorities obtain contributes to the differences in home equity. FHA and VA loans make up one-third or more of primary loans for African Americans and Hispanics, while only 18% for White Americans and 16% for Asians. These loans require lower down payments and cost more than conventional mortgages, which contributes to a slower accumulation of equity. Asians and Hispanics have lower net equity on houses partly because they are youngest on average, but age has only a small effect on the Black-White gap in home equity. Previously owning a home can allow the homeowner to use money from selling the previous home to invest and increase the equity of later housing. Only 30% of African Americans in comparison to 60% of White Americas had previously owned a home. African-Americans, Asians, and Hispanics gain lower home equity returns in comparison to White Americans with increases in income and education.\n\nResidential segregation can be defined as, \"physical separation of the residential locations between two groups. There are large discrepancies between races involving geographic location of residence. In the United States, poverty and affluence have become very geographically concentrated. Much residential segregation has been a result of the discriminatory lending practice of Redlining, which delineated certain, primarily minority race neighborhoods, as risky for investment or lending The result has been neighborhoods with concentrated investment, and others neighborhoods where banks are less inclined to invest. Most notably, this geographic concentration of affluence and poverty can be seen in the comparison between suburban and urban populations. The suburbs have traditionally been primarily White populations, while the majority of urban inner city populations have traditionally been composed of racial minorities. Results from the last few censuses suggest that more and more inner-ring suburbs around cities also are becoming home to racial minorities as their populations grow. As of 2017, most residents of the United States live in \"radicalized and economically segregated neighborhoods\".\n\nIn the United States, funding for public education relies greatly on local property taxes. Local property tax revenues may vary between different neighborhoods and school districts. This variance of property tax revenues amongst neighborhoods and school districts leads to inequality in education. This inequality manifests in the form of available school financial resources which provide educational opportunities, facilities, and programs to students.\n\nReturning to the concept of residential segregation, it is known that affluence and poverty have become both highly segregated and concentrated in relation to race and location. Residential segregation and poverty concentration is most markedly seen in the comparison between urban and suburban populations in which suburbs consist of majority White populations and inner-cities consist of majority minority populations. According to Barnhouse-Walters (2001), the concentration of poor minority populations in inner-cities and the concentration of affluent White populations in the suburbs, \"is the main mechanism by which racial inequality in educational resources is reproduced.\"\n\nIn 2016, the unemployment rate was 3.8% for Asians, 4.6% for non-Hispanic Whites, 6.1% for Hispanics, and 9.0% for Blacks, all over the age of 16. In terms of unemployment, it can be seen that there are two-tiers: relatively low unemployment for Asians and Whites, relatively high unemployment for Hispanics and Blacks.\n\nSeveral theories have been offered to explain the large racial gap in unemployment rates:\n\nThis theory argues that the effects of racial segregation pushed Blacks and Hispanics into the central city during a time period in which jobs and opportunities moved to the suburbs. This led to geographic separation between minorities and job opportunities which was compounded by struggles to commute to jobs in the suburbs due to lack of means of transportation. This ultimately led to high unemployment rates among minorities.\n\nThis theory argues that the reason minority disadvantage exists is because the majority group is able to benefit from it. For example, in terms of the labor force, each job not taken by a Black person could be job that gets occupied by a White person. This theory is based on the view that the White population has the most to gain from the discrimination of minority groups. In areas where there are large minority groups, this view predicts high levels of discrimination to occur for the reason that White populations stand to gain the most in those situations.\n\nThis theory argues that the unemployment disparity can be attributed to lower rates of academic success among minority groups (especially black Americans) leading to a lack of skills necessary for entering the modern work force.\n\nIn 2008, the prison population under federal and state correctional jurisdiction was over 1,610,446 prisoners. Of these prisoners, 20% were Hispanic (compared to 16.3% of the U.S. population that is Hispanic), 34% were White (compared to 63.7% of the U.S. population that is White), and 38% were Black (compared to 12.6% of the U.S. population that is Black). Additionally, Black males were imprisoned at a rate 6.5 times higher than that of their White male counterparts. According to a 2012 study by the U.S. Census Bureau, \"over half the inmates incarcerated in our nation's jails is either black or Hispanic.\" According to a report by the National Council of La Raza, research obstacles undermine the census of Latinos in prison, and \"Latinos in the criminal justice system are seriously undercounted. The true extent of the overrepresentation of Latinos in the system probably is significantly greater than researchers have been able to document.\n\nAfter being released from prison, the consequences of having a criminal record are immense. Over 40 percent who are released will return to prison within the next few years. Those with criminal records who do not return to prison face significant struggles to find quality employment and income outcomes compared to those who do not have criminal records.\n\nA potential cause of such disproportionately high incarceration rates for Black Americans is that Black Americans are disproportionately poor. Conviction is a crucial part of the process that leads to either guilt or innocence. There are two important factors that play a role in this part of the process: the ability to make bail and the ability to access high-quality legal counsel. Due to the fact that both of these important factors cost money, it is unlikely that poor Black Americans are able to afford them and benefit from them. Sentencing is another crucial part of the process that determines how long individuals will remain incarcerated. Several sociological studies have found that poor offenders receive longer sentences for violent crimes and crimes involving drug use, unemployed offenders are more likely to be incarcerated than their employed counterparts, and then even with similar crimes and criminal records minorities were imprisoned more often than Whites.\n\nRacial profiling is defined as,\"any police-initiated action that relies on the race, ethnicity, or national origin, rather than the behavior of an individual or information that leads the police to a particular individual who has been identified as being, or having been, engaged in criminal activity.\" Another potential cause for the disproportionately high incarceration rates of Blacks and Hispanics is that racial profiling occurs at higher rates for Blacks and Hispanics. Eduardo Bonilla-Silva states that racial profiling can perhaps explain the over representation of Blacks and Hispanics in U.S. prisons According to Michael L. Birzer, professor of criminal justice at Wichita State University and director of its School of Community Affairs, \"racial minorities, particularly African Americans, have had a long and troubled history of disparate treatment by United States Criminal Justice Authorities.\"\n\n\"Racial residential segregation is a fundamental cause of racial disparities in health\". Racial segregation can result in decreased opportunities for minority groups in income, education, etc. While there are laws against racial segregation, study conducted by D. R. Williams and C. Collins focuses primarily on the impacts of racial segregation, which leads to differences between races.\n\nSignificant racial discrepancies have been reported in the United States involving police brutality. Police brutality in the United States is defined as \"the unwarranted or excessive and often illegal use of force against civilians by U.S. police officers.\" It can come in the form of murder, assault, mayhem, or torture, as well as less physical means of violence including general harassment, verbal abuse, and intimidation. The origins of racial inequality by way of police brutality in America date all the way back to colonial times. During this time when Africans were enslaved by whites, enslavement became so widespread that slaves began to outnumber whites in some colonies. Due to fear of rebellions, insurrections, and slave riots, whites began to organize groups of vigilantes who would use force to keep slaves from rebelling against their owners. Men ages six to sixty were required to patrol slave residences, searching for any slaves that needed to be kept under control. When the first American police department was established in 1838, African Americans soon became the target of police brutality as they fled the south. In 1929, the Illinois crime survey reported that although African-Americans only made up five percent of Illinois's population, they consisted of 30 percent of victims of police killings. \n\nDuring the civil rights era, the existence of the racial disparities surrounding police brutality only became more evident. As protests against police brutality became more prevalent, police would use tactics such as police dogs or fire hoses to control the protesters, even if they were peacefully protesting. In 1991, video footage was released of cab driver Rodney King being hit over 50 times by multiple police with their batons. The police were later acquitted for their actions. Allegations of police brutality continue to plague American police. An alleged example includes Philando Castile, a 32 year old black male who was pulled over for a broken taillight. After being told by the police man, officer Yanez, to take out his license and insurance, Castile let the officer know he had a firearm and that he was reaching into his pocket to get his wallet. In a matter of seconds the officer pulled out his gun and shot Castile 5 times, killing him in front of his girlfriend and 4-year-old daughter. He claimed he feared for his life because he believed Castile was pulling his own gun from his pocket. He was acquitted at trial, with one juror expalining that the decision hinged on the specific wording of the law under which he was charged.\n\nA study done by Joshua Correll at the University of Chicago shows what is called “The police officers dilemma,” by setting up a video game in which police are given scenarios involving both black and white men holding either a gun or non-threatening objects such as cellphones. Their task is to only shoot the men that are carrying guns. It was found in this experiment that armed black men were shot more frequently than armed white men and were also shot more quickly. The police would also often mistakenly shoot the unarmed black targets, while neglecting to shoot the armed white targets. Cody T. Ross, a doctoral student studying anthropology concluded that there is \"evidence of a significant bias in the killing of unarmed black Americans relative to unarmed white Americans, in that the probability of being {black, unarmed, and shot by police} is about 3.49 times the probability of being {white, unarmed, and shot by police} on average.\" \n\nIt is hypothesized by some scholars, such as Michelle Alexander, that in the post-Civil Rights era, the United States has now switched to a new form of racism known as color blind racism. Color-blind racism refers to \"contemporary racial inequality as the outcome of nonracial dynamics.\"\n\nThe types of practices that take place under color blind racism are \"subtle, institutional, and apparently nonracial.\" These practices are not racially overt in nature such as racism under slavery, segregation, and Jim Crow laws. Instead, color blind racism flourishes on the idea that race is no longer an issue in this country and that there are non-racial explanations for the state of inequality in the U.S. Eduardo Bonilla-Silva writes that there are 4 frames of color-blind racism that support this view:\n\n\nWhen a disaster strikes--be it a hurricane, tornado, or fire--some people are inherently more prepared than others. \"While all members of populations are affected by disasters, research findings show that racial and ethnic minorities are less likely to evacuate and more affected by disasters\" than their Caucasian counterparts. \"During Hurricane Katrina, the large number of people seeking safety in designated shelters were disproportionately black. In addition, the mortality rate for blacks was 1.7 to 4 times higher than that of whites for all people ≥ 18.\" After Hurricane Katrina, many African Americans felt abandoned by the United States Government. 66% of African Americans \"said that 'the government's response to [Katrina] would have been faster if most of the victims had been white.'\" For a disproportionate share of the impoverished in New Orleans, many had, and continue to have, a difficult time preparing for storms. Factors such as \"cultural ignorance, ethnic insensitivity, racial isolation and racial bias in housing, information dissemination, and relief assistance\" all greatly contribute to the disparities in disaster preparedness. \n\n"}
{"id": "38564428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38564428", "title": "Roman fish salting factory", "text": "Roman fish salting factory\n\nThe Roman fish salting factory () was a salting factory established on the seafront of Algeciras, southeastern Spain by the Romans. It belonged to the fishing village of San Nicolás, part of what was called Caetaria. A site of archaeological and historical interest, it was declared a Bien de Interés Cultural site on 27 June 2002. \n"}
{"id": "54066808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54066808", "title": "School-related gender-based violence in Vietnam", "text": "School-related gender-based violence in Vietnam\n\nSchool-related gender-based violence in Viet Nam refers to physical, sexual, psychosocial and verbal violence that takes place in the Vietnamese education system. Different forms of School-related gender-based violence (SRGBV) interact and overlap. Bullying, for instance, occurs when there is an imbalance of power between the “bully” and the “bullied” and can happen through physical contact, verbal attacks, social exclusion, and psychological manipulation. Students are bullied when they are repeatedly and intentionally exposed to harmful and/or aggressive behaviour that results in injury or discomfort.\n\nGlobal, regional and local research demonstrates that schools and other educational institutions in Viet Nam are not always safe and inclusive spaces for children and young people. Many schools are sites of physical, verbal, psychosocial and sexual violence. This violence appears to be on the rise with incidents reported to the Department of Child Care and Protection hotline increasing by a factor of 13 in the last decade. Research in two schools of Hai Phong City showed that nearly 57% of the students surveyed had been bullied. Further, a field survey carried out by the Centre for Creative Initiatives in Health and Population (CCIHP) with 520 lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) at the average age of 21 has shown that 41% suffered from discrimination and violence in either general education schools or universities. This violence can negatively impact the wellbeing and education performance of children and young people. In the long-term such violence may adversely affect employment prospects and the economic development of the country.\n\nIn 2013 the Global School-based Health Survey (GSHS) showed that approximately one in six students, aged 13-17 years, reported being in a physical fight one or more times during the last 12 months, with this behaviour being more common for boys (26%) than girls (10%). Reported experiences of bullying, one or more days within the last 30 days, were however similar for boys and girls (23% and 24% respectively). Other small scale studies have confirmed that (i) school violence is common; (ii) forms of violence among students include physical, psychological, sexual and social violence as well as bullying; and (iii) students with diverse sexual orientation and gender identity or expression are also reported to be targeted for violence.\n\nViet Nam has also had some research studies about violence against LGBT students, including a field survey carried out by CCIHP with 520 LGBT people with the average age of 21. This study revealed that 41% of LGBT participants suffered from discrimination and violence in either schools or universities. Save the Children Vietnam and the Institute of Social and Medical Studies completed a separate study on 170 LGBT young adults which found that discrimination against these children (at home and school) contributed to their increased risk of homelessness. They were at high risk of violence at home, school and on the streets. Only 15.9% of the LGBT youth participants had a post-secondary school education, 47.8% had only a lower secondary education, 27.6% had only a primary school education, and 8.7% had no schooling at all.\n\nOne study conducted by the Institute for Studies of Society, Economy and Environment (iSEE) involving 2,363 respondents from 63 provinces in Viet Nam found that one in three respondents felt that they had been subject to discrimination because of their sexual orientation and gender identity within 12 months preceding the survey, with a high degree of frequency. The study also reported that transgender people experience the highest degree of discrimination. This study focused its analysis on the discrimination experienced by LGBT people in families, schools, workplaces, healthcare settings and housing, among other aspects. Looking specifically at the school setting, the study found that nearly a quarter of students had been harassed, bullied by teachers and/or school officials because they were considered to be LGBT. Gender indicative uniforms proved to be a significant obstacle for transgender people, affecting their quality of learning and their mental health. In light of the findings, some recommendations specific to the education sector included: 1) School psychological counseling models need to pre-empt the psychological and physical development of students to provide well-timed educational support; 2) Create extracurricular programs that respond to the needs of students; 3) Respect students’ choice of uniform to fit with their desired gender and; 4) Educate faculties about the LGBT community. One study conducted by the Institute for Studies of Society, Economy and Environment (iSEE) involving 2,363 respondents from 63 provinces in Viet Nam found that one in three respondents felt that they had been subject to discrimination because of their sexual orientation and gender identity within 12 months preceding the survey, with a high degree of frequency.106 The study also reported that transgender people experience the highest degree of discrimination. This study focused its analysis on the discrimination experienced by LGBT people in families, schools, workplaces, healthcare settings and housing, among other aspects. Looking specifically at the school setting, the study found that nearly a quarter of students had been harassed, bullied by teachers and/or school officials because they were considered to be LGBT. Gender indicative uniforms proved to be a significant obstacle for transgender people, affecting their quality of learning and their mental health. In light of the findings, some recommendations specific to the education sector included: 1) School psychological counselling models need to preempt the psychological and physical development of students to provide well-timed educational support; 2) Create extracurricular programs that respond to the needs of students; 3) Respect students’ choice of uniform to fit with their desired gender and; 4) Educate faculties about the LGBT community.\n\nPlan International Viet Nam, in cooperation with the Ha Noi Department of Education and Training (DOET), Center for Research and Applied Sciences in Gender, Family, Women and Adolescents (CSAGA), and the International Centre for Research on Women (ICRW), has implemented a “Gender Responsive School Pilot Model project” meant to prevent and respond to SRGBV. The 3-year project (2014-2016), funded by UNTF and Plan International involves 20 secondary/high schools in Ha Noi. The intervention provides teacher training on gender equality, SRGBV, and reproductive health to encourage lessons on related topics to be integrated into the curriculum. The intervention also encourages the formation of youth leadership organizations and awareness-raising activities with parents. A key component of the project is the establishment of a psychological counselling room at the participating schools. To date, nearly 2,300 students have received individualized counselling and over 4,100 students have received group counselling. The project has found that while only 6% of students in Viet Nam know about a public hotline for counselling, 21% of the total students in the 20 schools of the project have sought counselling services.\n\nThe National Policy Framework for Gender Equality was approved for the period 2011-2020 with the goal of highlighting the importance of gender equality for the socio-economic development of the country, including in education efforts towards this end. Furthermore, unlike many of its neighbours, Viet Nam now no longer has a ban on same-sex marriage, and has indeed never had punitive laws around either male or female same-sex relations. Additionally, Viet Nam passed a landmark law by a vote of 282-84 in 2015 enshrining transgender people’s right to legal recognition of a gender identity other than that indicated by their sex rights for transgender people and paving the way to allow those who have undergone gender reassignment to register their legal identity under their new sex. Along with these strategies, a National Targeted Program on Gender Equality was developed for the period of 2011 to 2015 and as Viet Nam moves forward with new strategies to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, there is a clear opportunity for evaluation and reflection on current conditions around SOGIE in education.\n"}
{"id": "8040101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8040101", "title": "School of History (University College Dublin)", "text": "School of History (University College Dublin)\n\nThe School of History (\"Scoil na Staire\") at University College Dublin is one of the major centres in Ireland for the study of history.\n\nThe School of History was established at the foundation of the University in 1854. \n\nOne of department's most important figures was Eoin MacNeill, who held the Professorship of Early Irish (including medieval) history from 1909 to 1916 and from 1918 to 1942. MacNeill was also one of the leading figures in shaping the new Irish state, serving as Minister for Education between 1922 and 1925.\n\nThe University College Dublin Archives department was originally set up in 1971 by Robert Dudley Edwards, Professor of Modern Irish History from 1944 to 1979, and formalised as the University Archives Service in 1997. Its core function is the curatorship of the archives of the university and its predecessors, along with outstanding collections of private papers and institutional archives which document the foundation and development of modern Ireland.\n\nCollections are acquired from institutions and bodies within the university and from external sources. Its collections policy is centered on a core of political private papers, including those of figures such as Éamon de Valera, John A. Costello, Cearbhall Ó Dálaigh, Conor Cruise O'Brien and Terence MacSwiney, political parties such as Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael, administrators such as T. K. Whitaker, as well as figures from the arts world including poet Denis Devlin and actor Dan O'Herlihy.\n\nIn addition to curation of collections, the School provides the only recognized course in Ireland for the training of professional archivists: the MA in Archives and Records Management is accredited by the Society of Archivists (UK and Ireland).\n\nFollowing in the footsteps of the Eoin MacNeill, the School of History has some notable scholars amongst its staff, including: Professor Diarmaid Ferriter (Modern Irish History), Professor Robert Gerwarth (Modern European History), Dr Judith Devlin (19thC France, 20thC Russia), Dr Declan Downey (early modern Europe and Asian studies), and Professor Sandy Wilkinson (early modern European history). Professor Tadhg O'Hannrachain currently holds the position of Head of school. The school also awards a number of annual chairs for visiting lecturers. \n\nThe school comprises approximately 1,200 students. 1,000 of these are taught at undergraduate level, the remainder are postgraduate students. The school is responsible for history programs at the BA, MA, MLitt and Ph.D level. Many graduates have gone on to take up research places at other top universities across the globe. Prominent University College Dublin history graduates in Irish society today include journalist Kevin Myers, broadcaster Philip Boucher-Hayes, entrepreneur Denis O'Brien, TV personality Ryan Tubridy and bestseller Maeve Binchy.\n\n\"The History Review\" is an academic journal produced in the School of History and Archives at University College Dublin. Although it has had a mixed history of varying standards and content, the journal is experiencing something of a transformation as of the spring of 2005.\n\n\"The History Review\" claims to be the leading student journal in Western Europe. While it was initially a means to an end for history postgraduates to publish their work in a local academic context, the journal is now an international platform for research and opinion on international relations, history, politics and current affairs.\n\nSpecial contributors have included John Major, Zbigniew Brzezinski and F.W. de Klerk.\n\n"}
{"id": "9768381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9768381", "title": "Semitic Museum", "text": "Semitic Museum\n\nThe Harvard Semitic Museum was founded in 1889, and moved into its present location at 6 Divinity Avenue in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1903.\n\nFrom the beginning, it was the home of the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, a departmental library, a repository for research collections, a public educational institute, and a center for archaeological exploration. Among the museum's early achievements were the first scientific excavations in the Holy Land (at Samaria in 1907–1912) and excavations at Nuzi and Tell el-Khaleifeh in the Sinai, where the earliest alphabet was found.\n\nThe museum's artifacts include pottery, cylinder seals, sculpture, coins, cuneiform tablets, and Egyptian mummy sarcophagi. Many are from museum-sponsored excavations in Jordan, Iraq, Egypt, Cyprus, Israel, and Tunisia. The museum holds plaster casts of the Black Obelisk of Shalmaneser III, the Laws of Hammurabi, and the Stele of Esarhaddon, as well as a full-scale model of an Iron Age Israelite house. The museum is dedicated to the use of these collections for the teaching, research, and publication of Near Eastern archaeology, history, and culture. \n\nArchitectural firm A. W. Longfellow broke ground on the present Harvard Semitic Museum site on September 27, 1900. Construction was completed in spring of 1902, and the public portions of the museum were opened on February 5, 1903. \n\nThe museum's facilities were repurposed during World War II, and it was closed to the public from August 1942 through April 1946. Twelve years later it was closed again to the public, lasting from 1958 through 1982. \n\nThe museum reopened in April 1982, and then Harvard President Derek Bok spoke at the reopening ceremony. In December 2012, Harvard announced a new consortium, the Harvard Museums of Science and Culture, whose members are the Harvard Museum of Natural History, the Harvard Semitic Museum, the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology, and the Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments.\n\nThe Semitic Museum, through the collaborative efforts of departmental faculty, curators, museum curatorial staff, and students; mounts exhibits, often in conjunction with university courses, which not only serve the university community, but also attract the general public. The museum has an active public outreach program featuring tours for school groups and teacher training workshops. The museum also sponsors, either alone or in conjunction with other institutions, a number of public lectures each year. Through these educational efforts, the museum seeks to promote a wider understanding of the civilizations of the Near East and their great cultural legacies.\n\nThere are many opportunities for Harvard University students and faculty to make use of the museum collections and facilities. Objects can be used for coursework, viewing assignments, research papers, senior theses, dissertations, and teaching displays. The basement seminar room is available for sections scheduled to view the collection.\n\nThe Harvard Semitic Museum sponsors archaeological field research into the complex societies of the Near East, with special emphasis on those ancient cultures related to the world of the Bible. Each year more than 100 staff, students, and volunteers participate in the Ashkelon Excavations (The Leon Levy Expedition), led by Honorary Museum Director Lawrence E. Stager, Dr. Daniel M. Master, and Dr. Adam Aja. The museum, through its Harvard Semitic Series and Harvard Semitic Monographs, publishes archaeological, historical, philological, and cultural studies of the Near East, many of which present the research of the department faculty and their students.\n\n"}
{"id": "454355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=454355", "title": "Seniority", "text": "Seniority\n\nSeniority is the concept of a person or group of people taking precedence over another person or group because the former is either older than the latter or has occupied a particular position longer than the latter. Seniority is present between parents and children and may be present in other common relationships, such as among siblings of different ages or between workers and their managers.\n\nUnder a seniority system, control is often granted to senior persons due to length of service in a given position. When persons of senior rank have less length of service than their subordinates, \"seniority\" may apply to either concept.\n\nIn some military command structures, the length of time someone has held a particular rank is called \"seniority in grade\" and determines whether that person is senior to another person of the same rank. For instance, a captain who was promoted five years ago can give orders to a captain who was promoted three years ago.\n\nSeniority in United States politics, when used out of context, is informally defined as the number of years one member of a group has been a part of the group. For example, as of January 2015, John Conyers from Michigan is the most senior member of the House of Representatives. However, \"seniority\" can also refer to political power attained by position within the United States Government. For further details, see:\nSeniority is viewed sometimes both positively and negatively. Many elected officials are viewed as retaining their position only because they have been there for many years, which can reflect voter stagnancy and the benefits of incumbency. On the other hand, long years of incumbency can also be seen as a sign of the person's ability to continue pleasing voters or the use of seniority to deliver benefits to constituents.\n\nIn some countries the Dean of the Diplomatic Corps receives special treatment.\n\nIn unionised companies, employees with more seniority may enjoy more work privileges. Here are examples: \n\nSeniority also has an influence over bumping rights, which is a reassignment of jobs, possibly for many people at a time.\n\nSome traditionalist employers, common in smaller, single-operated business, take a \"last in, first out\" (LIFO) perspective, meaning those who have been there longest or who have tenure have the right to stay, whereas other employers take a \"first in, first out\" (FIFO) or \"inverse seniority\" viewpoint, which tends to emphasize a new or \"fresh start\" for the company.\n\nSeniority does have several positive factors to its name. Individuals may be draws toward specific field or occupation with the knowledge that seniority is obtainable. If seniority were to be banished as a whole, many higher paid employees would be fired first just because they make more money than their peers. Seniority does an effective job in helping people, interested in staying at one organization, in working towards having a \"marathon\" career. One of the goals of a seniority system is employee retention, which ensures an organization is retaining institutional knowledge, erudite employees, and a wealth of wisdom within an organization for new hires to pool from. It's important to make sure employees are here to stay. \n\nThough the principle of seniority does an effective job of protecting long-term employees, in some scenarios, it can fail to address several critical factors. Firstly, spots secured by seniority casts aside some of the most appealing perspectives. Individuals will become less driven to enter a field that does not reinforce their efforts with employment. Secondly, the security of tenure often encourages mediocrity. Employees with the knowledge that their spot in the workplace is secured will naturally become less likely to improve their working ethics as they may no longer view improvement as a necessity. Lastly, a system rewarding individuals for their hiring date does not encourage professional growth. If individuals are aware they only have to reach a certain time-span of employment to have a guaranteed position in a company, they will not grow professionally once they have reached their mark. \n\nCommercial aviation pilots working for a carrier have their privileges determined by their seniority or generally known as the \"pilot seniority list.\" These privileges can be income level, routes flown, types of aircraft, work schedules and positions. Seniority is most important when deciding which pilots to upgrade to a larger, more complex aircraft type; or for upgrading a First Officer to the rank of a Captain.\n\nEngine drivers with many railways also have a seniority list, but it is focused on work scheduling. Younger engine drivers often serve as back-up personnel and must help out on a very short notice – for example when a colleague calls in sick or has a delay.\n\n"}
{"id": "50387208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50387208", "title": "Sheikh Ali Madad", "text": "Sheikh Ali Madad\n\nSheikh Ali Madad () was a Parachinar Pakistan Shia Muslim religious leader, politician born in Gilgit. He was succeeded by Muhammad Nawaz Irfani.He died on 28 June 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "20769136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20769136", "title": "So help me God", "text": "So help me God\n\nSo help me God is a phrase often used to give an oath, and most commonly optional as part of an oath of office. It is also used in some jurisdictions as a form of oath for other forms of public duty, such as an appearance in court, service as a juror, etc.\n\nThe essence of the phrase is to emphasize that one means what one is saying or has said. It therefore implies greater care than usual in the act of the performance of one's duty, such as in testimony to the facts of the matter in a court of law.\n\nThe use of the phrase implies a greater degree of seriousness and obligation than is usually assigned to common conversation. See the discussion on oaths for more details.\n\nIn Australia the Oath of Allegiance is available in two forms, only one of which contains the phrase 'SO HELP ME GOD!.'\n\nIn Canada, the Oath of Office, Oath of Allegiance, and Oath of Members of the Privy Council may be sworn, and end in \"So help me God.\" They may also be solemnly affirmed, and in such case the phrase is omitted.\n\nIn Croatia, the text of presidential oath, which is defined by the Presidential Elections Act amendments of 1997 (Article 4), ends with \"Tako mi Bog pomogao\" (\"So help me God\"). \n\nIn 2009, concerns about the phrase infringing on Constitution of Croatia were raised. Constitutional Court of Croatia ruled them out in 2017, claiming that it is compatible with constitution and secular state. The court said the phrase is in neither direct nor indirect relation to any religious beliefs of the elected president. It doesn't represent a theist or religious belief and doesn't stop the president in any way from expressing any other religious belief. Saying the phrase while taking the presidential oath doesn't force a certain belief on the President and doesn't infringe on their religious freedoms.\n\nThe requires this phrase for the oath of allegiance, and before service to the republic from the President's office or Vice-President's office, a ministerial position, or a judicial position.\n\nIn medieval France, tradition held that when the Duke of Brittany or other royalty entered the city of Rennes, they would proclaim \"Et qu'ainsi Dieu me soit en aide.\"\n\nIn New Zealand the Oath of Allegiance is available, in English or Maori in two forms, one an oath containing the phrase 'so help me God' and the other an affirmation which does not. The Police Act 1958 and the Oaths Modernisation Bill still includes the phrase.\n\nThe Polish phrase is \"\" or \".\" It has been used in most version of the Polish Army oaths, however other denominations use different phrases.\n\nIn the Oath of Office of the President of the Philippines, the phrase \"So help me God\" (Filipino: \"Kasihan nawâ ako ng Diyos\") is mandatory. Though the phrase can be omitted voluntarily, in which case it would become an \"affirmation\" instead of an oath. An affirmation, however, has exactly the same legal effect as an oath.\n\nThe Oath of Allegiance set out in the Promissory Oaths Act 1868 ends with this phrase, and is required to be taken by various office-holders.\n\nIn the United States, the No Religious Test Clause requires that \"no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States.\" Regardless of that, there are federal oaths which do include the phrase \"So help me God,\" such as for justices and judges in .\n\nThe phrase \"So help me God\" is prescribed in oaths as early as the Judiciary Act of 1789, for U.S. officers other than the President. The act makes the semantic distinction between an \"affirmation\" and an \"oath\". The oath, religious in essence, includes the phrase \"so help me God\" and \"[I] swear\". The affirmation uses \"[I] affirm\". Both serve the same purpose and are described as one (i.e. \"[...] solemnly swear, or affirm, that [...]\") \n\nThere is no law that requires Presidents to use a Bible or to add the words \"So help me God\" at the end of the oath. Historian John R. Alden maintains that Washington himself added the phrase to the end after administration of his first oath. However, all Presidents since Franklin D. Roosevelt have used this phrase, according to Marvin Pinkert, executive director of the National Archives Experience.\n\nThe United States Oath of Citizenship (officially referred to as the \"Oath of Allegiance,\" 8 C.F.R. Part 337 (2008)), taken by all immigrants who wish to become United States citizens, includes the phrase \"so help me God\"; however provides that the phrase is optional.\n\nThe Enlistment oath and officer's Oath of Office both contain this phrase. Normally, it is not required to be said if the speaker has a personal or moral objection, as is true of all oaths administered by the United States government. However, a change in October 2013 to Air Force Instruction 36-2606 made it mandatory to include the phrase during Air Force enlistments/reenlistments. This change has made the instruction \"consistent with the language mandated in 10 USC 502\". The Air Force announced on September 17, 2014, that it revoked this previous policy change, allowing anyone to omit \"so help me God\" from the oath.\n\nSome of the states have specified that the words \"so help me God\" were used in oath of office, and also required of jurors, witnesses in court, notaries public, and state employees. Where this is still the case, there is the possibility of a court challenge over eligibility, as the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"Torcaso v. Watkins\", 367 U.S. 488 (1961), that such state-law requirements violate citizens' rights under the federal Constitution.\nAlabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Mexico, North Carolina, Texas, and Virginia still require \"so help me God\" as part of the oath to public office. Maryland and South Carolina did include it, but both have been successfully challenged in court. Other states, including New Hampshire, North Dakota, and Rhode Island, allow exceptions or optional phrases. In Wisconsin, the specific language of the oath has been repealed.\n"}
{"id": "10857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10857", "title": "Stage (stratigraphy)", "text": "Stage (stratigraphy)\n\nIn chronostratigraphy, a stage is a succession of rock strata laid down in a single age on the geologic timescale, which usually represents millions of years of deposition. A given stage of rock and the corresponding age of time will by convention have the same name, and the same boundaries.\n\nRock series are divided into stages, just as geological epochs are divided into ages. Stages can be divided into smaller stratigraphic units called chronozones. (See chart at right for full terminology hierarchy.) Stages may also be divided into substages or indeed grouped as superstages.\n\nThe term faunal stage is sometimes used, referring to the fact that the same fauna (animals) are found throughout the layer (by definition).\n\nStages are primarily defined by a consistent set of fossils (biostratigraphy) or a consistent magnetic polarity (see paleomagnetism) in the rock. Usually one or more index fossils that are common, found worldwide, easily recognized, and limited to a single, or at most a few, stages are used to define the stage's bottom. \n\nThus, for example in the local North American subdivision, a paleontologist finding fragments of the trilobite \"Olenellus\" would identify the beds as being from the Waucoban Stage whereas fragments of a later trilobite such as \"Elrathia\" would identify the stage as Albertan. \n\nStages were important in the 19th and early 20th centuries as they were the major tool available for dating and correlating rock units prior to the development of seismology and radioactive dating in the second half of the 20th Century. Microscopic analysis of the rock (petrology) is also sometimes useful in confirming that a given segment of rock is from a particular age.\n\nOriginally, faunal stages were only defined regionally; however as additional stratigraphic and geochonologic tools, were developed, stages were defined over broader and broader areas. More recently, the adjective \"faunal\" has been dropped as regional and global correlations of rock sequences have become relatively certain and there is less need for faunal labels to define the age of formations. A tendency developed to use European and, to a lesser extent, Asian, stage names for the same time period worldwide, even though the faunas in other regions often had little in common with the stage as originally defined.\n\nBoundaries and names are established by the International Commission on Stratigraphy (ICS) of the International Union of Geological Sciences. As of 2008, the ICS is nearly finished a task begun in 1974, subdividing the Phanerozoic eonothem into internationally accepted stages using two types of benchmark. For younger stages, a Global Boundary Stratotype Section and Point (GSSP), a physical outcrop clearly demonstrates the boundary. For older stages, a Global Standard Stratigraphic Age (GSSA) is an absolute date. The benchmarks will give a much greater certainty that results can be compared with confidence in the date determinations, and such results will have farther scope than any evaluation based solely on local knowledge and conditions. \n\nIn many regions local subdivisions and classification criteria are still used along with the newer internationally coordinated uniform system, but once the research establishes a more complete international system, it is expected that local systems will be abandoned.\n\nStages can include many lithostratigraphic units (for example formations, beds, members, etc.) of differing rock types that were being laid down in different environments at the same time. In the same way, a lithostratigraphic unit can include a number of stages or parts of them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1229071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1229071", "title": "Syntagmatic analysis", "text": "Syntagmatic analysis\n\nIn semiotics, syntagmatic analysis is analysis of syntax or surface structure (syntagmatic structure) as opposed to paradigms (paradigmatic analysis). This is often achieved using commutation tests.\n\n\"Syntagmatic\" means that one element selects the other element either to precede it or to follow it. For example, the definitive article \"the\" selects a noun and not a verb.\n\nOf particular use in semiotic study, a syntagm is a chain which leads, through syntagmatic analysis, to an understanding of how a sequence of events forms a narrative. Alternatively, syntagmatic analysis can describe the spatial relationship of a visual text such as posters, photographs or a particular setting of a filmed scene.\n\nRoland Barthes was able to use metaphor in the form of various garments in order to display how the syntagm/paradigm relationship worked together to at once create and change meaning. Expanding on this form of explanation by Barthes, both David Lodge and Susan Spiggle have further developed the metaphor, using specific wearable items. Shirt, shorts and sandals for example, are freely interchangeable along the plane of tops, bottoms and footwear, the paradigmatic plane, assuming they follow the rules of wearable items, the syntagmatic plane. While you can change the sandals for high heels, it would be breaking the rules to wear them as a top. Turning to the grammatically correct sentence, it prevents the text from reading like it was written by Yoda.\n\nDue to the abstract nature of the signifier/signified relationship, a free-standing signifier is unable to convey knowledge or understanding by itself. After all, the only reason any word means what it means at all is due to a consensus of understanding by the wider community. Expanding on Saussure's own example of the arbitrariness of the word \"tree\", or any word for that matter, it can be seen that the word \"tree\" by itself could mean just about any upright bit of wood with branches, whether it grows leaves or provides a place to hang cups or hats. Meaning is therefore provided by an extended syntagmatic chain, which will identify for the reader of the text just what sort of tree is meant.\n\nThis understanding leads to the opportunity to consider the linguistics of texts and language in a wider variety ways. Thwaite, Davis, and Mules identify a syntagm as \"the result of using a conventional rule to combine a series of elements from various paradigms\". From this understanding it is possible to consider the structure of textsfilm and television being an ideal example.\n\nLooking at the mise-en-scène of a set piece, the various signs combine to give the viewer a greater understanding of what they are viewing. The syntagmatic chain is constructed in such a way that sets the feel of the scene and is particularly apparent when considering genre. A western for example may have many of the paradigmatic signs that the viewer has grown accustomed to. That everything is where they expect to see it is following the rules of this syntagmatic chain. If the horse is riding the cowboy, it breaks these rules and becomes a very different movie.\n"}
{"id": "17809373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17809373", "title": "The Adventures of Samurai Cat", "text": "The Adventures of Samurai Cat\n\nThe Adventures of Samurai Cat is a collection of linked humorous fantasy short stories by Mark E. Rogers. Rogers had done a series of paintings and drawings which feature his character Samurai Cat and spoofing martial arts films and fantasy stories. He went on to write stories to fit the paintings. The collections was first published in 1984 by Donald M. Grant, Publisher, Inc. in an edition of 2,225 copies, of which 425 were issued as a deluxe edition, and were slipcased, signed and numbered.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "575803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=575803", "title": "The Big Read", "text": "The Big Read\n\nThe Big Read was a survey on books carried out by the BBC in the United Kingdom in 2003, where over three quarters of a million votes were received from the British public to find the nation's best-loved novel of all time. The year-long survey was the biggest single test of public reading taste to date, and culminated with several programmes hosted by celebrities, advocating their favourite books.\n\nThe BBC started the Big Read with the goal of finding the \"Nation's Best-loved Novel\" by way of a viewer vote via the Web, SMS, and telephone. The show attracted controversy for adopting an allegedly sensationalist approach to literature, but supporters praised it for raising the public awareness of reading. The British public voted originally for any novel that they wished. From this, a list of 200 was drawn up, with the highest 21 then put forward for further voting, on the provision that only one book per author was permitted in the top 21. As the poll was based on novels, the plays of William Shakespeare were not part of the survey.\n\nIn the first stage, all four extant Harry Potter novels by J. K. Rowling were among the 25 leaders. So were both Middle-earth novels by J. R. R. Tolkien. The second stage featured 21 books by distinct authors: the top 25 with Rowling represented only by her fourth volume, \"Goblet of Fire\", and Tolkien only by \"The Lord of the Rings\". Those two novels finally placed fifth and first; the other preliminary leaders by Rowling and Tolkien nominally led the also-rans in ranks 22–25.\n\n\n\n\nContests similar to the Big Read were conducted in other countries:\n\nOther lists:\n\n"}
{"id": "2523381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2523381", "title": "The Mummy, or Ramses the Damned", "text": "The Mummy, or Ramses the Damned\n\nThe Mummy, or Ramses the Damned is a 1989 horror novel by American writer Anne Rice. Taking place during the early twentieth century, it follows the collision between a British archeologist's family and a resurrected mummy. The novel ends with the statement, \"The Adventures of Ramses the Damned Shall Continue\", and twenty-eight years later, Rice finally fulfilled this promise, with \"\", written in collaboration with her son, novelist Christopher Rice.\n\nDuring the Edwardian period in 1914, a wealthy shipping-magnate-turned-archaeologist, Lawrence Stratford, discovers an unusual tomb. The mummy inside, in its left-behind notes, claims to be the famed pharaoh Ramses II, despite the tomb's dating only to the first century B.C. (the historical Ramses II died in 1224 B.C.). Before he can fully investigate this claim, Lawrence unexpectedly falls dead, and those around him fear he was the victim of a curse placed on the tomb. Nonetheless, the mummy and other belongings are shipped off to London, and placed on temporary display in Lawrence's house before they are taken by the British Museum.\n\nLawrence's daughter Julie Stratford is the designated heir to her father's shipping company, as well as the dysfunctional family that surrounds it. Her cousin Henry is an alcoholic and gambling addict who has been draining the family fortune with the aid of his uncle. Julie is engaged to marry Alex Savarell, a viscount and son of Elliott, the current Earl of Rutherford. Although the marriage is a standard alliance between the wealthy Stratfords and an impoverished family of nobles, Alex truly loves Julie, though she is unable to return these feelings.\n\nInto this unstable situation comes the mummy Ramses, who awakes shortly after his sarcophagus is placed in Julie's house.\n\nHenry murders his uncle Lawrence with a poison found in the mummy's tomb. When Henry tries to poison Julie in the same manner, Ramses comes to life and attempts to kill Henry, but succeeds only in scaring him away. After his awakening, Julie and Ramses are instantly attracted to each other. Ramses quickly adopts a pseudonym, \"Reginald Ramsey\", and claims to be an Egyptologist to throw off the accusation made by the frightened Henry that a \"bloody mummy\" rose from the crypt to harm him. With superhuman intelligence and the ability to learn quickly, Ramses quickly learns the English language and, with the help of an eager Julie, is given a tour of modern London and new technology that had arisen during the past two thousand years. While Henry's accusations are passed off as the rantings of a drunkard, the elderly and ailing Elliott Savarell suspects that it may be the truth. He trails Ramses and comes to believe that he is who Henry claims him to be.\n\nDuring Ramses's reign as pharaoh, he had learned from a Hittite priestess the formula for an elixir that grants eternal life. The potion not only made him immortal, but also allows his body to regenerate from damage that would kill a normal human, such as multiple bullet wounds. He requires neither food nor drink nor sleep, and only the sun's rays to maintain his life. However, he still craves food and certain other physical pleasures, like sex, smoking, and alcohol.\n\nRamses nurses a deep secret. Prior to the Roman conquest of Egypt, he had served as an immortal advisor to its kings and queens, and the last person to awake him for consultation had been Cleopatra, the last ruler of Egypt. Although he served as Cleopatra's counsel (and encouraged her to romance Julius Caesar in a bid to keep the country independent), he had also fallen in love with her, and had revealed to her the secrets of the elixir. Having fallen in love with Mark Antony in defiance of Ramses's advice, Cleopatra refuses the elixir and chooses suicide upon Antony's death. In his depression, Ramses had given himself the name \"Ramses the Damned\", and had Egyptian priests seal him away underground.\n\nWith Julie's encouragement, Ramses begins to recover. While Henry is convinced that Ramses is an evil monster ready to kill the entire family, Elliott reads Lawrence's notes and chases after Ramses to learn the secret of the elixir of immortality. Eventually, Ramses and Julie decide to visit Egypt one last time so that Ramses can say good-bye to his past. Although Ramses appears to be coming to terms with his past, upon visiting the Cairo Museum, he unexpectedly recognizes an unidentified mummy as being that of Cleopatra. Breaking into the museum later at night simply to see her, he impulsively pours some of the elixir onto the dead body. Cleopatra is revived, but by Ramses not pouring the entire vial of elixir on her, the restoration is incomplete; she is a half-formed monstrosity, awake and conscious yet with parts of her face, hands, and torso still gone. Her incomplete brain restoration leaves her not totally coherent; though Ramses later repairs her body with more of the potion, she appears to be insane and kills a number of people, including Henry. Cleopatra unexpectedly falls in love with Elliot's son Alex though realizes a life with him cannot last because of his mortality and his innocence. Because Ramses would not give her long-ago love Mark Antony the elixir to save his life, Cleopatra holds a passionate hatred for him and seeks to even the score by killing his current love: Julie Stratford.\n\nCleopatra ultimately falters before killing Julie, realizing that the girl should not be punished for Ramses's actions. She also comes to regret the other murders she has committed. In an attempt to escape Ramses, Cleopatra \"dies\" when her car is hit by a train and is consumed by a fiery explosion so hot that it \"could kill even an immortal\". Ramses later gives the elixir to Julie after she attempts suicide in her grief for her loss of him, and he promises to stay with her for eternity. To thank him for his help in covering up all the unusual events, Ramses also gives the elixir to a dying Elliott, who drinks it after serious consideration of the consequences: dying miserably, or living eternally even when wishing for nothing but oblivion. Cleopatra has secretly survived the crash, and awakens under the care of a British doctor in Sudan. She vows to find Ramses again someday for revenge.\n\nLike the vampires of Rice's \"Vampire Chronicles\", those who take the elixir become immortal, inhumanly strong, and unable to die from normal means. These individuals could even be said to be \"reverse vampires\" since they derive their strength from the sun, and cannot live without it. Unlike vampires, they are able to eat, drink and function as normal humans. However, this immortality comes with a strange price. Those who drink the potion are constantly driven to sate their senses. They constantly crave food and drink, although they need neither to survive. They have an extremely heightened libido. Moreover, their bodies continually blunt drugs that give humans pleasure. For example, Ramses constantly drinks and smokes because the \"buzz\" the alcohol or nicotine would normally give him fades after a few moments.\n\nBut perhaps most importantly, the elixir causes any organic substance to become invulnerable and self-sustaining. Having once tested it upon livestock and crops in his own time, he had been horrified to find that such things transformed by the elixir cannot be digested and continually regenerate even inside the intestines, with bloody and gruesome results. And once this elixir is used, it cannot be undone and should it be poured into a fire, it would become dust that could then be swept by rain into the rivers or the oceans, creating immortal fish and sea creatures, or watering plants to become invulnerable. Therefore, the elixir, once brewed, cannot be disposed of by any means other than deliberate consumption. For this reason, the elixir's formula is strictly hidden by Ramses, though the ingredients are common and easily obtained. His feud with Cleopatra before the events of the novel had begun when he refused to create an \"immortal army\" for Mark Antony's use.\n\nAs with many Rice novels, sexuality tends to be fluid. Both Elliott and Lawrence are described as bisexual—when younger, they were lovers, but both eventually married and had children. In the past, Henry had an affair with Elliott as well, but his only reason may have been a failed blackmail attempt, as at the time of the novel, Henry has at least two mistresses.\n\nAs always, Rice employs considerable irony. For example, after his death, Henry's corpse ends up in a \"mummy factory\" (during the Egyptian craze of the early 1900s, natives often took modern corpses and made them into mummies for sale to gullible tourists). Elliott, his nemesis, gets the last laugh when a merchant tries to sell him Henry's mummy.\n\nRice credited authors of numerous turn-of-the-century mummy stories with her inspiration, including Arthur Conan Doyle and H. Rider Haggard. England during the late-nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries fell under a fad for Ancient Egypt, a phenomenon also known as Egyptomania; this movement created many works of fiction which Rice could draw from.\nDuring a 2014 interview, Rice stated that she had delved back into the fictional universe established in \"The Mummy\" and that there was a strong possibility she could pen a sequel. In February 2017, Rice announced a new \"Ramses\" novel, co-written with her son, novelist Christopher Rice. \"\" was published on November 21, 2017.\n"}
{"id": "32164157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32164157", "title": "Tikal Temple IV", "text": "Tikal Temple IV\n\nTikal Temple IV is a Mesoamerican pyramid in the ruins of the ancient Maya city of Tikal in modern Guatemala. It was one of the tallest and most voluminous buildings in the Maya world. The pyramid was built around 741 AD. Temple IV is located at the western edge of the site core. Two causeways meet at the temple; the Tozzer Causeway runs east to the Great Plaza, while the Maudslay Causeway runs northeast to the Northern Zone. Temple IV is the tallest pre-Columbian structure still standing in the New World, although Teotihuacan's Pyramid of the Sun may once have been taller.\n\nThe pyramid was built to mark the reign of the 27th king of the Tikal dynasty, Yik'in Chan K'awiil, although it may have been built after his death as his funerary temple. Archaeologists believe that Yik'in Chan K'awiil's tomb lies undiscovered somewhere underneath the temple. The summit shrine faces eastward to the site core, with Temple III visible directly in front and Temple I and Temple II beyond it.\n\nThe pyramid has a rectangular base with its long axis running north-south. It stands from its supporting platform to the highest part of the roof comb. Archaeologists estimate that of construction material were utilised in the bulk of the pyramid. The temple faces eastwards towards the site core and supports a massive roof comb in pure Petén style, which was built upon the highest part of the structure's rear. It was hollow and was faced with an enormous mosaic sculpture. The architecture of Temple IV is broadly similar to that of the other major temples at Tikal, such as Temple I and Temple II.\n\nThe pyramid body itself, excluding the superstructure, consists of seven stepped levels with slanting \"talud\" walls and multiple corners. The lowest of these levels measures , whilst the uppermost platform measures . The pyramid was built on top of an enormous supporting platform that measures ; this platform had two levels and rounded corners; it was accessed via a wide projecting stairway. The supporting platform was of very high-quality and utilised enormous stones in its construction.\n\nThe summit shrine was accessed via a wide stairway that climbed from the supporting platform; a plain stela (Stela 43) and the associated Altar 35 are centrally located at the base of the stairway. The shrine has been partially restored and has walls up to thick. The shrine was built upon a platform resting upon a supplementary platform, which was in turn seated upon the top of the pyramid.\n\nThe supplementary platform measures with the longer axis running north-south. A stairway projects eastwards from this, giving access to the shrine itself. The supplementary platform is not exactly rectangular but consists of a number of architectural elements forming a complex plan. The platform resting on top of this measures high; this element is poorly preserved, being visible only on the east side and in the middle of the north and south sides.\n\nThe roof comb is high and consists of three distinct levels. The massive bulk of the roof comb was lightened by internal chambers, with four being built into each of the three levels. The roof comb was originally somewhat taller as evidenced by the bases of three smaller architectural elements on top.\n\nThe shrine measures , with a maximum height of excluding the roof comb. The exterior walls of the shrine are vertical, contrasting with the rest of the pyramid. The upper sections of the exterior walls formed a frieze, with three giant stone mosaic masks facing eastwards over the temple access. The central mask was directly over the outer doorway, while the other two were near the northern and southern extremes of the building's facade.\nThe shrine had three chambers situated one behind the other, each linked by a doorway with a lintel fashioned from sapodilla wood. These three rooms were the only accessible chambers in the entire pyramid temple. The lintel of the exterior doorway was plain but the two interior lintels were intricately carved. These two were removed in 1877 by Gustav Bernoulli and are now found in the Ethnographic Museum in Basel in Switzerland. The lintels were carved elsewhere and then moved to the pyramid, raised to the summit shrine and installed in prepared positions; this was a laborious task given that sapodilla wood weighs 1120 kg/m (69.1 lb/cubic foot). It was only after the installation of the lintels that the shrine was roofed and the roof comb built.\n\nThe hieroglyphic inscriptions on the sculpted lintels indicate that the temple was built in 741 AD, and radiocarbon dating of the lintels and wooden beams in the vaulting confirmed this, giving a result of 720±60 AD.\n\nLintel 3 is a wooden panel measuring that is carved in low relief. It depicts the Tikal king Yik'in Chan K'awiil seated on a litter underneath the arch of a celestial serpent. The lintel was sculpted to mark his victory over the city of El Perú in 743. It has two panels of hieroglyphic script, containing a total of 64 glyphs.\n\nThe Tikal Project of the University of Pennsylvania stabilised the ruins of the pyramid between 1964 and 1969, carrying out some limited restoration work to the upper part of the temple. The National Tikal Project (\"Proyecto Nacional Tikal\") carried out emergency repairs in the second half of the 1970s.\nA scene from the 1977 science fiction motion picture film \"Star Wars\" by director George Lucas was filmed from the entranceway of the comb structure looking eastward back towards the Tikal Plaza. It depicted the fictitious \"hidden base of the Rebel Alliance\" in the final scenes of the movie.\n\n"}
{"id": "28109549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28109549", "title": "Triadic pyramid", "text": "Triadic pyramid\n\nTriadic pyramids were an innovation of the Preclassic Maya civilization consisting of a dominant structure flanked by two smaller inward-facing buildings, all mounted upon a single basal platform. The largest known triadic pyramid was built at El Mirador in the Petén Basin of Guatemala; it covers an area six times as large as that covered by Tikal Temple IV, which is the largest pyramid at that city. The three superstructures all have stairways leading up from the central plaza on top of the basal platform. Triadic pyramid structures are found at early cities in the Maya lowlands.\n\nTriadic pyramid complexes were most frequently oriented towards the west although other orientations were common, particularly at those cities that possessed more than one triadic pyramid; the second most frequent orientation appears to be north-south. \n\nThere are only a few Middle Preclassic examples of the triadic pyramid complex, although their exact chronology might not be secure. No securely established forerunners of Triadic Groups are known, but they may have developed from the eastern range building of E-Group observatory complexes. The triadic form was the predominant architectural form in the Petén region during the Late Preclassic. Examples of triadic pyramids are known from as many as 88 archaeological sites, among them Nakbe, El Mirador, Tikal, Uaxactun, Naranjo, Palenque, and Caracol. At Nakbe, a sizeable city dating to the Middle Preclassic, there are at least a dozen examples of triadic complexes and the four largest structures in the city are triadic in nature. At El Mirador there are probably as many as 36 triadic structures. Examples of the triadic form are even known from Dzibilchaltun in the far north of the Yucatán Peninsula, and Q'umarkaj in the Highlands of Guatemala. El Tintal has a massive triadic pyramid complex that is the second largest after El Mirador.\n\nThe triadic pyramid remained a popular architectural form for centuries after the first examples were built. The triadic form continued in use into the Classic Period, with later examples being found at Uaxactun, Caracol, Seibal, Nakum, Tikal and Palenque. The Q'umarkaj example is the only one that has been dated to the Postclassic Period. \n\nThe triple-temple form of the triadic pyramid appears to be related to Maya mythology. According to one theory, the three hearthstones of the Maya creation myth can be associated with three stars in the constellation of Orion and the triadic pyramid complex may be an architectural representation of this. New studies favor an alternative interpretation, according to which the Triadic Groups may represent the moment of resurrection of the Maya maize god on the top of the Flower Mountain, accompanied by two other deities. \n\n"}
{"id": "57713641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57713641", "title": "Ursula (detention center)", "text": "Ursula (detention center)\n\nUrsula is the colloquial name of the largest U.S. Customs and Border Protection detention center for undocumented immigrants. It was opened in 2014 on W. Ursula Avenue in McAllen, Texas. In June 2018, it gained notoriety for the practice of keeping children in large cages made of chain-link fencing.\n\nThe center, better known as \"Ursula,\" is the largest immigration processing and detention center run by the Border Patrol and the Customs and Border Protection Agency.\nThe detention and processing center was opened in 2014 at 3700 W. Ursula Avenue in McAllen, Texas. The facility is made from a former warehouse which was leased by the federal government and modified to be able to hold 1,000 children. Children are kept in cages made of chain-link fencing inside of the 77,000 square-foot warehouse. \n\nMinors who arrive at the Mexico–United States border unaccompanied or who have been separated from their families are supposed to only stay in this type of processing center for under 72 hours. After processing, minors are sent to facilities run by the Department of Health and Human Services. The facility also houses adults and individuals are separated based on how they crossed into the United States.\n\nFilming or photography is not allowed inside of the facility. During the weekend of June 16, 2018, reporters were allowed to tour the facility (without cameras).\n\n"}
{"id": "418447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418447", "title": "Wansdyke (earthwork)", "text": "Wansdyke (earthwork)\n\nWansdyke (from \"Woden's Dyke\") is a series of early medieval defensive linear earthworks in the West Country of England, consisting of a ditch and a running embankment from the ditch spoil, with the ditching facing north. There are two main parts: an eastern dyke which runs between Savernake Forest and Morgan's Hill in Wiltshire, and a western dyke which runs from Monkton Combe to the ancient hill fort of Maes Knoll in historic Somerset. Between these two dykes there is a middle section formed by the remains of the London to Bath Roman road. There is also some evidence in charters that it extended west from Maes Knoll to the coast of the Severn Estuary but this is uncertain. It may possibly define a post-Roman boundary.\n\nWansdyke consists of two sections, 14 and 19 kilometres (9 and 12 mi) long with some gaps in between. East Wansdyke is an impressive linear earthwork, consisting of a ditch and bank running approximately east-west, between Savernake Forest and Morgan's Hill. West Wansdyke is also a linear earthwork, running from Monkton Combe south of Bath to Maes Knoll south of Bristol, but less impressive than its eastern counterpart. The middle section, 22 kilometres (14 mi) long, is sometimes referred to as 'Mid Wansdyke', but is formed by the remains of the London to Bath Roman road. It used to be thought that these sections were all part of one continuous undertaking, especially during the Middle Ages when the pagan name \"Wansdyke\" was applied to all three parts. However, it is not now considered certain that this is so.\n\nEast Wansdyke in Wiltshire, on the south of the Marlborough Downs, has been less disturbed by later agriculture and building. It is more clearly traceable on the ground than the western part. In places the bank is up to high and the ditch as much as deep. Since at least the tenth century there have been gaps, \"gates\", in the work. Fowler suggests that its plan is consistent with those of Roman border fortifications such as Hadrian's Wall, not just a military defence but intended to control locals and travelers along the Wessex Ridgeway. He suggests further that the works were never finished, abandoned in the face of a political change which removed their rationale. Wansdyke's origins are unclear, but the eastern part was probably built during the 5th or 6th century. That is, after the withdrawal of the Romans, and before the arrival of the Anglo-Saxons. The earthwork is named after Woden, indicating that the incoming Anglo-Saxons had no information about the origins of a structure that was there when they arrived, and which was of no significance to locals at that time. \n\nThe ditch is on the north side, so Wansdyke may have been intended by the Romano-Britons as a defence against West Saxons encroaching from the upper Thames Valley westward into what is now the West Country. Lieut.-General Augustus Pitt Rivers carried out excavations at the Wansdyke in Wiltshire in the late 19th century, considering it the remains of a great war in which the southwest was being defended. In 1958, Fox and Fox attributed its construction to the pagan Saxons, probably in the late sixth century. Its relationship to the expansion of the West Saxons was considered in 1964 by J.N.L. Myres, who maintained that Wansdyke was constructed by some sub-Roman authority. Fowler speculates that it was a fortification intended for use against invading Saxons in the 490s, and abandoned when the news of British victory at Mons Badonicus made it redundant.\n\nAlthough the antiquarians like John Collinson considered West Wansdyke to stretch from Bathampton Down south east of Bath, to the west of Maes Knoll, a review in 1960 considered that there was no evidence of its existence to the west of Maes Knoll. Keith Gardner refuted this with newly discovered documentary evidence. In 2007 a series of sections were dug across the earthwork which showed that it had existed where there are no longer visible surface remains. It was shown that the earthwork had a consistent design, with stone or timber revetment. There was little dating evidence but it was consistent with either a late Roman or post-Roman date. A paper in \"The Last of the Britons\" conference in 2007 suggests that the West Wansdyke continues from Maes Knoll to the hill forts above the Avon Gorge and controls the crossings of the river at Saltford and Bristol as well as at Bath.\n\nAs there is little archaeological evidence to date the whole section, it may have marked a division between British Celtic kingdoms or have been a boundary with the Saxons. The evidence for its western extension is earthworks along the north side of Dundry Hill, its mention in a charter and a road name.\n\nThe area became the border between the Romano-British Celts and the West Saxons following the Battle of Deorham in 577 AD.\nAccording to the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\", the Saxon Cenwalh achieved a breakthrough against the Britons, with victories at Bradford on Avon (in the \"Avon Gap\" in the Wansdyke) in 652 AD,\nand further south at the Battle of Peonnum (at Penselwood) in 658 AD,\nfollowed by an advance west through the Polden Hills to the River Parrett. It is however significant to note that the names of the early Wessex kings appear to have a Brythonic (British) rather than Germanic (Saxon) etymology.\n\nA section of Wansdyke in Odd Down, which has been designated as an Ancient monument, appears on the Heritage at Risk register as being in unsatisfactory condition and vulnerable due to gardening.\n\nThe Saxons named the dyke after their god Wōden, hence it became 'Woden's Dyke' and, eventually, Wansdyke. Its name occurs in charters of the 9th and 10th century AD. It may be compared to both Offa's Dyke (later, and forming a Mercian border with Wales) and Hadrian's Wall (earlier and forming a border between Britannia & Caledonia) as one of the largest defensive earthworks in the United Kingdom. Nennius, an 8th-century Welsh monk who had access to older chronicles since lost, describes these defences and their purpose, and links them to the legends of King Arthur.\n\nThe Western Wansdyke gave its name to the former Wansdyke district of the county of Avon, and also to the Wansdyke constituency. It is now in Bath and North East Somerset unitary authority.\n\n\n"}
