{"id": "43562594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43562594", "title": "Aerial yoga", "text": "Aerial yoga\n\nAerial yoga is a type of yoga combining traditional yoga poses, pilates, and dance with the use of a hammock. It originated in California.\n\nAnti-gravity yoga requires a special kind of hammock used a prop which can support up to 300 kilos of weight.\nThe rig consists of support chains, a webbing strap, a silk hammock and carabiners.\n\nTwo support chains hang down from the ceiling to less than one meter from the floor, and the hammock is connected at the height preferred by the user. \n\nThe hammock acts like a swing or soft trapeze, supporting the hips for forward bends and back bends. Yoga postures which some find difficult to do on the ground, such as the reverse post, may be easier in mid-air using the hammock, and the hammock moves add variety to a workout.\n\nThere is a lack of well-designed clinical trials to support the effectiveness of yoga in improving general health, and anti-gravity yoga is too new to have been studied in this way. However, anecdotal evidence indicates that by facilitating bending and stretching of the whole body during exercise, muscles and joints will be strengthened and rehabilitated, and the spine decompressed as the body hangs freely. As with other forms of active exercise, the circulatory, respiratory and digestive systems are improved through increased blood circulation. Yoga in general, and anti-gravity yoga in particular is promoted as benefiting emotional, psychological and spiritual health.\n\nThere are an ever-increasing number of poses to try out during a session of anti-gravity yoga, with the most popular including:\n\nWith the hammock supporting you just above your waist and hands holding the material, straighten your legs and lean back. Slowly let your arms fall wide behind you to complete the cross shape.\n\nThis is one of the first inversions learned during an anti-gravity yoga class. With the hammock resting on the tailbone of your spine and hands gripping the sides, sit and let your body slowly fall backwards whilst opening your legs to rest against the material. Slide your hands down slowly to the floor and stabilize.\n\nFrom the star inversion, bend your right knee and hook your foot across the front of the hammock.\n\nFrom the one-legged king pigeon pose, reach back with one of your hands and grab your left foot or ankle. Then again with your second. Sink into the position and relax.\n"}
{"id": "56554601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56554601", "title": "Alathur Kilar", "text": "Alathur Kilar\n\nAlathur Kilar, originally pronounced \"Ālathur Kiḻhār\" (Tamil: ஆலத்தூர் கிழார்), was a Tamil poet of Sangam period. He has authored seven poetries in the Sangam literature, including five in Purananuru and two in Kurunthogai.\n\nAlathur Kilar has written seven Sangam verses in all. This includes verses 34, 36, 69, 225, and 324 in Purananuru and verses 112 and 350 in Kurunthogai. The three Chola emperors mentioned by Alathur Kilar include Setchnni Nalankilli, Cholan Nalankilli, and Cholan Kulamuttratthu Thunjiya Killi Valavan.\n\nAlathur Kilar cites the Tirukkural in verse 34 of the Purananuru, calling it 'Aram' which later became one of the Kural's traditional names.\n\nAlathur Kilar hailed from Sonadu's Alathur and belonged to the Vellalar caste. He was known for providing moral advice to the rulers.\n\n"}
{"id": "114313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=114313", "title": "Amiga E", "text": "Amiga E\n\nAmiga E, or very often simply E, is a programming language created by Wouter van Oortmerssen on the Amiga. He has since moved on to develop the SHEEP programming language for the new AmigaDE platform and the CryScript language (also known as DOG) used during the development of the video game Far Cry.\nAmiga E is a combination of many features from a number of languages, but follows the original C programming language most closely in terms of basic concepts. Amiga E's main benefits are fast compilation (allowing it to be used in place of a scripting language), very readable source code, flexible type system, powerful module system, exception handling (not C++ variant) and Object oriented programming.\n\nA \"hello world\" program in Amiga E looks like:\ncodice_1\nAmiga E was used to create the core of the popular Amiga graphics software Photogenics.\n\n1993: The first public release of Amiga E.\n\n1997: The last version of Amiga E is released (3.3a).\n\n1999: Unlimited compiler executable of Amiga E is released.\n\n1999: Source code of the Amiga E compiler in M68K assembler is released under the GPL.\n\n1999: First version of CreativE is released. Based on Sourcecode of Amiga E.\n\n1999: First version of PowerD is released. (0.01)\n\n2000: First version of YAEC (Yet Another E Compiler) is released. (1.0)\n2001: Final version of CreativE (2.12.3) is released.\n\n2002: Final version of YAEC is released (2.5d).\n\n2002: First public release of ECX. (1.0)\n\n2003: Final version of PowerD is released. (0.20)\n\n2008: First public release of PortablE. (r1)\n\n2008: First public release of RE. (0.9)\n\n2009: First public release of PortablE for Microsoft Windows. (r4)\n\nThe first compiler, written in M68k assembler. Support tools written in E. Generates M68000 machine code directly.\n\nBased on the GPL sources of Amiga E and adds many extensions to the compiler.\n\nBased on the AmigaE language, but not compatible with it due to changes in syntax.\n\nWritten from scratch in E. Uses external assembler and linker.\n\nA compiler and tools written from scratch in E, can compile itself, supports multiple targets and adds many extensions.\n\nBased on the AmigaE language, but not fully compatible, with some changes in syntax and additions, inspired by PowerD.\n\nA meta-compiler written from scratch in E, can compile itself, supports multiple targets.\n\n"}
{"id": "4199510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4199510", "title": "Amsterdam Declaration", "text": "Amsterdam Declaration\n\nThe Amsterdam Declaration 2002 is a statement of the fundamental principles of modern Humanism passed unanimously by the General Assembly of the International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU) at the 50th anniversary World Humanist Congress in 2002. According to the IHEU, the declaration \"is the official statement of World Humanism.\"\n\nIt is officially supported by all member organisations of the IHEU including:\n\n\nA complete list of signatories can be found on the IHEU page (see references).\n\nThis declaration makes exclusive use of capitalized \"Humanist\" and \"Humanism\", which is consistent with IHEU's general practice and recommendations for promoting a unified Humanist identity. To further promote Humanist identity, these words are also free of any adjectives, as recommended by prominent members of IHEU. Such usage is not universal among IHEU member organizations, though most of them do observe these conventions.\n\n\"(see References for complete text)\"\n\nThe official defining statement of World Humanism is:\n\n\nThe Amsterdam Declaration explicitly states that Humanism rejects dogma, and imposes no creed upon its adherents.\n\nAt the first World Humanist Congress in the Netherlands in 1952, the IHEU general assembly agreed a statement of the fundamental principles of modern Humanism - The Amsterdam Declaration. \n\nAt the 50th anniversary World Humanist Congress in 2002, the IHEU general assembly unanimously passed a resolution updating that declaration - \"The Amsterdam Declaration 2002\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25335520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25335520", "title": "Archibald Campbell (philosopher)", "text": "Archibald Campbell (philosopher)\n\nArchibald Campbell (1691 in Edinburgh – 1756 in St Andrews) was a Church of Scotland minister and moral philosopher.\n\nArchibald Campbell's father was a merchant, and of the Succoth family. Archibald was educated at Edinburgh and Glasgow. He was licensed to preach in 1717, and in 1718 ordained minister of the united parishes of Larbert and Dunipace, Stirlingshire.\n\nIn 1726 Campbell published an anonymous treatise on the duty of praying for the civil magistrate. The same year he travelled to London with a manuscript treatise on \"Moral Virtue\", that based morals on self-love but which was critical of both Mandeville and Francis Hutcheson.\n\nCampbell trusted his book to his friend Alexander Innes, who had been an accomplice of the well-known Psalmanazar. Innes published this as his own in 1728, as \"Ἀρετηλογία\"(\"An Enquiry into the Original of Mldral Virtue\"). Innes not only won reputation by the work, but a good living in Essex. In August 1730 Campbell went to London, saw Innes, and says that he \"made him tremble in his shoes\". Campbell consented, however, to an advertisement claiming his own book, but only saying that \"for some certain reasons\" it had a peered under the name of Innes. Even this was delayed for a time that Innes might not lose a post which he was expecting. Stuart, physician to the queen, was a cousin of Innes, and interceded for him. Campbell was appointed professor of church history in St. Andrews in 1730.\n\nIn 1730 Campbell published a \"Discourse proving that the Apostles were no Enthusiasts\". In 1733 he republished his former treatise under his own name as an \"Enquiry into the Original of Moral Virtue\". In the same year he published an \"Oratio de Vanitate Luminis Naturæ\", theological works against Matthew Tindal.\n\nIn 1735 Campbell was charged with Pelagianism, on account of \"Oratio de Vanitate Luminis Naturæ\" and other works, before the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, but was acquitted in March 1735-6, with a warning for the future. \"Remarks upon some passages in books by Professor Campbell, with his Explications\", was issued in 1735 by the committee of the general assembly \"for purity of doctrine\". In 1736 Campbell issued \"Further Explications with respect to Articles ... wherein the Committee ... have declar’d not satisfy’d\". In 1739 he published \"The Necessity of Revelation\", in answer to Tindal. He died at his estate of Boarhill, near St. Andrews, on 24 April 1756. A book entitled \"The Authenticity of the Gospel History justified\" was published posthumously in 1759.\n\nIn 1723 Campbell married Christina Watson, daughter of an Edinburgh merchant. Twelve children survived him. His eldest son, Archibald (fl. 1767), was author of \"Lexiphanes\".\n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "6161664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6161664", "title": "Arturo Andrés Roig", "text": "Arturo Andrés Roig\n\nArturo Andrés Roig (16 July 1922 – 30 April 2012) was an Argentine philosopher.\n\nBorn in Mendoza, he entered the Universidad Nacional de Cuyo, and graduated in 1949 with a degree in Education Sciences (\"Profesor de Enseñanza Secundaria, Normal y Especial en Filosofía\"). Roig continued his studies at the Sorbonne.\n\nHe returned to Argentina, and in 1955 he began teaching philosophy at the Universidad Nacional de Cuyo, with a special interest in local philosophers. This interest subsequently expanded to national and Latin American philosophers. Roig also studied German philosopher Karl Christian Friedrich Krause, and authored his first book on the pantheist thinker's influence in Argentina.\n\nHe is famous for being one of the best developed examples of Latin American Philosophy, and for his vast amount of scientific works, for which he has received widespread recognition and awards.\n\n\nArgentina\n\nCuba\n\nEcuador\n\nNicaragua\n\n"}
{"id": "31623525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31623525", "title": "Bernard Quiriny", "text": "Bernard Quiriny\n\nBernard Quiriny (born 27 June 1978) is a Belgian writer and literary critic. He is also a professor of public law at the University of Burgundy, having published numerous scholarly articles in the legal field since receiving his doctoral dissertation in 2005. In addition, he works a staff writer and head of the literature column for the cultural magazine \"Chronic'art\".\n\nQuiriny is best known for his collections of fantastic short stories (\"L'Angoisse de la première phrase\", \"Contes carnivores\", \"Une collection très particulière\"). All three feature a recurrent character, Pierre Gould, described as \"eccentric\", a \"poet, dandy, book-lover, just a bit of a misanthrope\". These stories have often led to comparisons with other writers such as Jorge Luis Borges, especially because of their inclusion of twists and fantastic or horrific elements.\n\nIn 2010, Quiriny published his first novel, \"Les assoiffées\", which depicts modern Belgium as a closed, totalitarian government run by radical feminists, similar North Korea in that little is known about what happens in Belgium in the outside world. The story follows Pierre Gould who, accompanied by a group of hand-picked journalists, is the first man to be receive permission to visit Belgium since the violent 1970 revolution.\n\nHis latest work, \"Monsieur Spleen\", is a biography of the symbolist poet Henri de Régnier, an author today largely unknown in modern literary circles. Although biographical, the tone of the work is situated between that of a novel and a historical account, characterised by the use of irony and humour.\n\nBernard Quiriny's second collection of short stories, \"Contes carnivores\", received the Prix du Style and the Prix Victor Rossel.\n\nIn 2013, his book \"Une collection très particulière\" was awarded the Grand Prix de l'Imaginaire for best French-language short stories.\n\n"}
{"id": "15459626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15459626", "title": "Carita Parahyangan", "text": "Carita Parahyangan\n\nCarita Parahyangan () is a text contained in a single manuscript written around the late 16th century, registered as Kropak 406 from the former collection of the Bataviaasch Genootschap voor Kunsten en Wetenschappen (Batavian Society of Arts and Sciences), now in the \"Perpustakaan National\" (National Library) in Jakarta. It was identified as early as 1882 by Holle as the \"Carita Parahyangan\", the name derived from Parahyangan highlands in West Java, originated from Sundanese words which means \"the abode of hyangs (gods)\". Since that time the manuscript has received much scholarly attention.\n\nThe Carita Parahyangan tells the history of Sunda Kingdom, from the early Galuh period in the early 8th century, during the era of Wretikandayun and King Sanjaya, until the fall of Pakuan Pajajaran in the 16th century, the capital of Sunda kingdom under invasion by the Banten Sultanate assisted by the Cirebon and Demak Sultanates.\n\nThe manuscript consists of 47 leaves of lontar palm leaf manuscript measuring ; each leaf contains four lines, written in Sundanese script in archaic Sundanese language.\n\nThis manuscript consists of two parts. The larger part, the Carita Parahyangan proper, is a text on Sundanese kings and kingdoms from the pre-Islamic period. After earlier publication by Holle (1882a) and Pleyte (1914a) it was Poerbatjaraka /91919-21) who gave a complete transliteration of the manuscript. In 1962 Noorduyn (1962a, 1962b) devoted two important papers to the texts; in the first he managed to restore the order of the folio of the manuscript which was in disarray; in the second he gave an annotated transliteration and translation of the first part of the text. In a third paper Noorduyn (1966) published a number of additions and corrections to the earlier text edition, which were based on a careful rereading of the original manuscript.\n\nBased on Noorduyn’s restoration of the order of the leaves in the major part of the manuscript, a new transliteration, with a translation in Indonesian and notes, was published by Atja and Danasasmita (1981c). In 1995 Darsa and Ekadjati presented a new edition and translation of the manuscript. In this work the other part of the manuscript, called by the editors Fragmen Carita Parahyangan, was published for the first time. This is a text found on 13 leaves (lempir) or 25 “pages”; graphically the two texts are different insofar as the Fragmen has an irregular number of lines (3-6) per page, unlike the Carita Parahyangan proper which consistently has four lines writing per page. Moreover, there are minor scriptural differences between the two parts of the manuscript. The Fragmen contains “three main stories of rulers of Sunda kingdom with capital city of Pakuan Pajajaran”. Its second, larger part is quite interesting from the viewpoint of social and economic history (Darsa and Ekadjati 1995:6). In a more recent paper Darsa (1999) has discussed in more detail the relation between the two texts in Kropak 406; it is clear that at an early stage the two texts must have been brought together in a single manuscript.\n\n"}
{"id": "1672551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1672551", "title": "Concentrated animal feeding operation", "text": "Concentrated animal feeding operation\n\nA concentrated animal feeding operation (CAFO), as defined by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) is an animal feeding operation (AFO)—a farm in which animals are raised in confinement—that has over 1000 \"animal units\" confined for over 45 days a year. An animal unit is an animal equivalent of 1000 pounds live weight. A thousand animal units equates to 1000 head of beef cattle, 700 dairy cows, 2500 swine weighing more than 55 lbs, 125 thousand broiler chickens, or 82 thousand laying hens or pullets.\n\nA CAFO is also an animal feeding operation of any size that discharges its waste into a waterway. For the most part, there are regulations that restrict how much can be distributed and for what the quality of the materials has to be. As of 2016 there were around 212,000 AFOs in the United States, 19,496 of which were CAFOS.\n\nLivestock production has become increasingly dominated by CAFOs in the United States and other parts of the world. Most poultry was raised in CAFOs starting in the 1950s, and most cattle and pigs by the 1970s and 1980s. By the mid-2000s CAFOs dominated livestock and poultry production in the United States, and the scope of their market share is steadily increasing. In 1966, it took one million farms to house 57 million pigs; by the year 2001, it took only 80,000 farms to house the same number.\n\nThere are roughly 212,000 AFOs in the United States, of which 19,496 met the more narrow criteria for CAFOs in 2016. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has delineated three categories of CAFOs, ordered in terms of capacity: large, medium and small. The relevant animal unit for each category varies depending on species and capacity. For instance, large CAFOs house 1,000 or more cattle, medium CAFOs can have 300–999 cattle, and small CAFOs harbor no more than 300 cattle.\n\nThe table below provides some examples of the size thresholds for CAFOs:\n\nThe categorization of CAFOs affects whether a facility is subject to regulation under the Clean Water Act (CWA). According to the 2008 rule adopted by the EPA, \"large CAFOs are automatically subject to EPA regulation; medium CAFOs must also meet one of two 'method of discharge' criteria to be defined as a CAFO (or may be designated as such); and small CAFOs can only be made subject to EPA regulations on a case-by-case basis.\" A small CAFO will also be designated a CAFO for purposes of the CWA if it discharges pollutants into waterways of the United States through a man-made conveyance such as a road, ditch or pipe. Alternatively, a small CAFO may be designated an ordinary animal feeding operation (AFO) once its animal waste management system is certified at the site.\nSince it first coined the term, the EPA has changed the definition (and applicable regulations) for CAFOs on several occasions. Private groups and individuals use the term CAFO colloquially to mean many types of both regulated and unregulated facilities, both inside and outside the United States. The definition used in everyday speech may thus vary considerably from the statutory definition in the CWA. CAFOs are commonly characterized as having large numbers of animals crowded into a confined space, a situation that results in the concentration of manure in a small area.\n\nThe EPA has focused on regulating CAFOs because they generate millions of tons of manure every year. When improperly managed, the manure can pose substantial risks to the environment and public health. In order to manage their waste, CAFO operators have developed agricultural wastewater treatment plans. The most common type of facility used in these plans, the anaerobic lagoon, has significantly contributed to environmental and health problems attributed to the CAFO.\n\nThe large amounts of animal waste from CAFOs present a risk to water quality and aquatic ecosystems. According to the EPA, states with high concentrations of CAFOs experience on average 20 to 30 serious water quality problems per year as a result of manure management issues.Animal waste includes a number of potentially harmful pollutants. According to the EPA, pollutants associated with CAFO waste principally include: \n\nThe two main contributors to water pollution caused by CAFOs are soluble nitrogen compounds and phosphorus. The eutrophication of water bodies from such waste is harmful to wildlife and water quality in aquatic system like streams, lakes, and oceans.\n\nBecause groundwater and surface water are closely linked, water pollution from CAFOs can affect both sources if one or the other is contaminated. Surface water may be polluted by CAFO waste through the runoff of nutrients, organics, and pathogens from fields and storage. Waste can be transmitted to groundwater through the leaching of pollutants. Some facility designs, such as lagoons, can reduce the risk of groundwater contamination, but the microbial pathogens from animal waste may still pollute surface and groundwater, causing adverse effects on wildlife and human health.\n\nA CAFO is responsible for one of the biggest environmental spills in U.S. history. In 1995, a lagoon ruptured in North Carolina, releasing of effluvium into the New River. The spill resulted in the killing of 10 million fish in local water bodies. The spill also contributed to an outbreak of \"Pfiesteria piscicida,\" which caused health problems for humans in the area including skin irritations and short term cognitive problems.\n\nCAFOs contribute to the reduction of ambient air quality. CAFOs release several types of gas emissions—ammonia, hydrogen sulfide, methane, and particulate matter—all of which bear varying human health risks. The amount of gas emissions depends largely on the size of the CAFO. The primary cause of gas emissions from CAFOs is the decomposition of animal manure being stored in large quantities. Additionally, CAFOs emit strains of antibiotic resistant bacteria into the surrounding air, particularly downwind from the facility. Levels of antibiotics measured downwind from swine CAFOs were three times higher than those measured upwind. While it is not widely known what is the source of these emissions, the animal feed is suspected.Globally, ruminant livestock are responsible for about 115 Tg/a of the 330 Tg/a (35%) of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions released per year. Livestock operations are responsible for about 18% of greenhouse gas emissions globally and over 7% of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. Methane is the second most concentrated greenhouse gas contributing to global climate change, with livestock contributing nearly 30% of anthropogenic methane emissions. Only 17% of these livestock emissions are due to manure management, with the majority resulting from enteric fermentation, or gases produced during digestion. With regards to antibiotic resistant bacteria, Staphylococcus Aureus accounts for 76% of bacteria grown within a swine CAFO. Group A Streptococci, and Fecal Coliforms were the two next most prevalent bacteria grown within the ambient air inside of swine CAFO.\n\nThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) acknowledges the significant effect livestock has on methane emissions, antibiotic resistance, and climate change, and thus, recommends eliminating environmental stressors and modifying feeding strategies, including sources of feed grain, amount of forage, and amount of digestible nutrients as strategies for reducing emissions. The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) advocates for minimizing the use of non-therapeutic antibiotics, especially those that are widely used in human medicine, at the advice of over 350 organizations including the American Medical Association. If no change is made and methane emissions continue increasing in direct proportion to the number of livestock, global methane production is predicted to increase 60% by 2030. Greenhouse gases and climate change affect the air quality with adverse health effects including respiratory disorders, lung tissue damage, and allergies. Reducing the increase of greenhouse gas emissions from livestock could rapidly curb global warming. In addition, people who live near CAFOs frequently complain of the odors, which come from a complex mixture of ammonia, hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide, and volatile and semi-volatile organic compounds.\n\nThe economic role of CAFOs has expanded significantly in the U.S. in the past few decades, and there is clear evidence that CAFOs have come to dominate animal production industries. The rise in large-scale animal agriculture began in the 1930s with the modern mechanization of swine slaughterhouse operations.\n\nThe growth of corporate contracting has also contributed to a transition from a system of many small-scale farms to one of relatively few large industrial-scale farms. This has dramatically changed the animal agricultural sector in the United States. According to the National Agricultural Statistics Service, \"In the 1930s, there were close to 7 million farms in the United States and as of the 2002 census, just over 2 million farms remain.\" From 1969 to 2002, the number of family farms dropped by 39%, yet the percentage of family farms has remained high. As of 2004, 98% of all U.S. farms were family-owned and -operated. Most meat and dairy products are now produced on large farms with single-species buildings or open-air pens.\n\nCAFOs can be very beneficial when properly located, managed and monitored. Due to their increased efficiency, CAFOs provide a source of low cost animal products: meat, milk and eggs. CAFOs may also stimulate local economies through increased employment and use of local materials in their production. The development of modern animal agriculture has increased the efficiency of raising meat and dairy products. Improvements in animal breeding, mechanical innovations, and the introduction of specially formulated feeds (as well as animal pharmaceuticals) have contributed to the decrease in cost of animal products to consumers. The development of new technologies has also helped CAFO owners reduce production cost and increase business profits with less resources consumption. The growth of CAFOs has corresponded with an increase in the consumption of animal products in the United States. According to author Christopher L. Delgado, \"milk production has doubled, meat production has tripled, and egg production has increased fourfold since 1960\" in the United States.\n\nAlong with the noted benefits, there are also criticisms regarding CAFOs' impact on the economy. Many farmers in the United States find that it is difficult to earn a high income due to the low market prices of animal products. Such market factors often lead to low profit margins for production methods and a competitive disadvantage against CAFOs. Alternative animal production methods, like \"free range\" or \"family farming\" operations are losing their ability to compete, though they present few of the environmental and health risks associated with CAFOs.\n\nCritics have long argued that the \"retail prices of industrial meat, dairy, and egg products omit immense impacts on human health, the environment, and other shared public assets.\" The negative production externalities of CAFOs have been described as including \"massive waste amounts with the potential to heat up the atmosphere, foul fisheries, pollute drinking water, spread disease, contaminate soils, and damage recreational areas\" that are not reflected in the price of the meat product. Environmentalists contend that \"citizens ultimately foot the bill with hundreds of billions of dollars in taxpayer subsidies, medical expenses, insurance premiums, declining property values, and mounting cleanup costs.\" Some economists agree that CAFOs \"operate on an inefficient scale.\" It has been argued, for instance, that \"diminishing returns to scale quickly lead to costs of animal confinement that overwhelm any benefits of CAFOs.\" These economists claim that CAFOs are at an unfair competitive advantage because they shift the costs of animal waste from CAFOs to the surrounding region (an unaccounted for \"externality\").\n\nThe evidence shows that CAFOs may be contributing to the drop in nearby property values. There are many reasons for the decrease in property values, such as loss of amenities, potential risk of water contamination, odors, air pollution, and other health related issues. One study shows that property values on average decrease by 6.6% within a radius of a CAFO and by 88% within 1/10 of a mile from a CAFO. Proponents of CAFOs, including those in farm industry, respond by arguing that the negative externalities of CAFOs are limited. One executive in the pork industry, for instance, claims that any odor or noise from CAFOs is limited to an area within a quarter-mile of the facility. Proponents also point to the positive effect they believe CAFOs have on the local economy and tax base. CAFOs buy feed from and provide fertilizer to local farmers. And the same executive claims that farmers near CAFOs can save $20 per acre by using waste from CAFOs as a fertilizer.\n\nEnvironmentalists contend that \"sustainable livestock operations\" present a \"less costly alternative.\" These operations, it is argued, \"address potential health and environmental impacts through their production methods.\" And though \"sustainably produced foods may cost a bit more, many of their potential beneficial environmental and social impacts are already included in the price.\" In other words, it is argued that if CAFO operators were required to internalize the full costs of production, then some CAFOs might be less efficient than the smaller farms they replace.\n\nCritics of CAFOs also maintain that CAFOs benefit from the availability of industrial and agricultural tax breaks/subsidies and the \"vertical integration of giant agribusiness firms.\" The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), for instance, spent an average of $16 billion annually between FY 1996 to FY 2002 on commodity based subsidies. Some allege that the lax enforcement of anti-competitive practices may be contributing to the formulation of market monopoly. Critics also contend that CAFOs reduce costs and maximize profits through the overuse of antibiotics.\n\nThe direct discharge of manure from CAFOs and the accompanying pollutants (including nutrients, antibiotics, pathogens, and arsenic) is a serious public health risk. The contamination of groundwater with pathogenic organisms from CAFOs can threaten drinking water resources, and the transfer of pathogens through drinking water contamination can lead to widespread outbreaks of illness. The EPA estimates that about 53% of people in the United States rely on groundwater resources for drinking water.\n\nThere are numerous effects on human health due to water contaminated by CAFOs. Accidental ingestion of contaminated water can result in diarrhea or other gastrointestinal illnesses and dermal exposure can result in irritation and infection of the skin, eyes or ear. High levels of nitrate also pose a threat to high-risk populations such as young children, pregnant women or the elderly. Several studies have shown that high levels of nitrate in drinking water are associated with increased risk of hyperthyroidism, insulin dependent diabetes and central nervous system malformations.\n\nThe exposure to chemical contaminates, such as antibiotics, in drinking water also creates problems for public health. In order to maximize animal production, CAFOs have used an increasing number of antibiotics, which in turn, increases bacterial resistance. This resistance threatens the efficiency of medical treatment for humans fighting bacterial infections. Contaminated surface and groundwater is especially concerning, due to its role as a pathway for the dissemination of antibiotic resistant bacteria. Due to the various antibiotics and pharmaceutical drugs found at a high density in contaminated water, antibiotic resistance can result due to DNA mutations, transformations and conjugations.\n\nAntibiotics are used heavily in CAFOs to both treat and prevent illness in individual animals as well as groups. The close quarters inside CAFOs promote the sharing of pathogens between animals and thus, the rapid spread of disease. Even if their stock are not sick, CAFOs will incorporate low doses of antibiotics into feed “to reduce the chance for infection and to eliminate the need for animals to expend energy fighting off bacteria, with the assumption that saved energy will be translated into growth”. This practice is an example of a non-therapeutic use of antibiotics. Such antibiotic use is thought to allow animals to grow faster and bigger, consequently maximizing production for that CAFO. Regardless, the World Health Organization has recommended that the non-therapeutic use of antibiotics in animal husbandry be reevaluated, as it contributes to the overuse of antibiotics and thus the emergence of resistant bacteria that can spread to humans. When bacteria naturally occurring in the animals’ environment and/or body are exposed to antibiotics, natural selection results in bacteria, who have genetic variations that protect them from the drugs, to survive and spread their advantageously resistant traits to other bacteria present in the ecosystem. This is how the problem of antimicrobial resistance increases with the continued use of antibiotics by CAFOs. This is of concern to public health because resistant bacteria generated by CAFOs can be spread to the surrounding environment and communities via waste water discharge or aerosolization of particles. \n\nConsequences of the air pollution caused by CAFO emissions include asthma, headaches, respiratory problems, eye irritation, nausea, weakness, and chest tightness. These health effects are felt by farm workers and nearby residents, including children. The risks to nearby residents was highlighted in a study evaluating health outcomes of more than 100,000 individuals living in regions with high densities of CAFOs, finding a higher prevalence of pneumonia and unspecified infectious diseases in those with high exposures compared to controls. Furthermore, a Dutch cross-sectional study 2,308 adults found decreases in residents' lung function to be correlated with increases particle emissions by nearby farms. In regards to workers, multiple respiratory consequences should be noted. Although \"in many big CAFOs, it takes only a few workers to run a facility housing thousands of animals,\" the long exposure and close contact to animals puts CAFO employees at an increased risk. This includes a risk of contracting diseases like Novel H1N1 flu, which erupted globally in spring of 2009, or MRSA, a strain of antibiotic resistant bacteria. For instance, livestock-associated MRSA has been found in the nasal passages of CAFO workers, on the walls of the facilities they work in, and in the animals they tend. In addition, individuals working in CAFOs are at risk for chronic airway inflammatory diseases secondary to dust exposure, with studies suggesting the possible benefits to utilizing inhaler treatments empirically. Studies conducted by the University of Iowa show that the asthma rate of children of CAFO operators is higher than that of children from other farms.\n\nCAFO practices have raised concerns over animal welfare from an ethics standpoint. Some view such conditions as neglectful to basic animal welfare. Many people believe that the harm to animals before their slaughter should be addressed through public policy. Laws regarding animal welfare in CAFOs have already been passed in the United States. For instance, in 2002, the state of Florida passed an amendment to the state's constitution banning the confinement of pregnant pigs in gestation crates. As a source for comparison, the use of battery cages for egg-laying hens and battery cage breeding methods have been completely outlawed in the European Union since 2012.\n\nWhereas some people are concerned with animal welfare as an end in itself, others are concerned about animal welfare because of the effect of living conditions on consumer safety. Animals in CAFOs have lives that do not resemble those of animals found in the wild. Although CAFOs help secure a reliable supply of animal products, the quality of the goods produced is debated, with many arguing that the food produced is unnatural. For instance, confining animals into small areas requires the use of large quantities of antibiotics to prevent the spread of disease. There are debates over whether the use of antibiotics in meat production is harmful to humans.\n\nThe command-and-control permitting structure of the Clean Water Act (CWA) provides the basis for nearly all regulation of CAFOs in the United States. Generally speaking, the CWA prohibits the discharge of pollution to the \"waters of the United States\" from any \"point source\", unless the discharge is authorized by a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued by the EPA (or a state delegated by the EPA). CAFOs are explicitly listed as a point source in the CWA. Unauthorized discharges made from CAFOs (and other point sources) violate the CWA, even if the discharges are \"unplanned or accidental.\" CAFOs that do not apply for NPDES permits \"operate at their own risk because any discharge from an unpermitted CAFO (other than agricultural stormwater) is a violation of the CWA subject to enforcement action, including third party citizen suits.\"\n\nThe benefit of an NPDES permit is that it provides some level of certainty to CAFO owners and operators. \"Compliance with the permit is deemed compliance with the CWA... and thus acts as a shield against EPA or State CWA enforcement or against citizen suits under... the CWA.\" In addition, the \"upset and bypass\" provisions of the permit can give \"permitted\" CAFO owners a legal defense when \"emergencies or natural disasters cause discharges beyond their reasonable control.\"\n\nUnder the CWA, the EPA specifies the maximum allowable amounts of pollution that can be discharged by facilities within an industrial category (like CAFOs). These general \"effluent limitations guidelines\" (ELG) then dictate the terms of the specific effluent limitations found in individual NPDES permits. The limits are based on the performance of specific technologies, but the EPA does not generally require the industry to use these technologies. Rather, the industry may use \"any effective alternatives to meet the pollutant limits.\"\n\nThe EPA places minimum ELG requirements into each permit issued for CAFOs. The requirements can include both \"numeric discharge limits\" (the amount of a pollutant that can be released into waters of the United States) and \"other requirements related to ELGs\" (such as management practices, including technology standards).\n\nThe major CAFO regulatory developments occurred in the 1970s and in the 2000s. The EPA first promulgated ELGs for CAFOs in 1976. The 2003 rule issued by the EPA updated and modified the applicable ELGs for CAFOs, among other things. In 2005, the court decision in \"Waterkeeper Alliance v. EPA\" (see below) struck down parts of the 2003 rule. The EPA responded by issuing a revised rule in 2008.\n\nA complete history of EPA’s CAFO rulemaking activities is provided on the CAFO Rule History page.\n\nThe \"Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1948\" was one of the first major efforts of the U.S. federal government to establish a comprehensive program for mitigating pollution in public water ways. The writers of the act aimed to improve water quality for the circulation of aquatic life, industry use, and recreation. Since 1948, the Act has been amended many times to expand programming, procedures, and standards.\n\nPresident Richard Nixon’s executive order, \"Reorganization Plan No. 3,\" created the EPA in 1970. The creation of the EPA was an effort to create a more comprehensive approach to pollution management. As noted in the order, a single polluter may simultaneously degrade a local environment’s air, water, and land. President Nixon noted that a single government entity should be monitoring and mitigating pollution and considering all effects. As relevant to CAFO regulation, the EPA became the main federal authority on CAFO pollution monitoring and mitigation.\n\nCongress passed the CWA in 1972 when it reworked the \"Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments.\" It specifically defines CAFOs as point source polluters and required operations managers and/or owners to obtain NPDES permits in order to legally discharge wastewater from its facilities.\n\nThe EPA began regulating water pollution from CAFOs starting in the 1970s. The EPA first created effluent limitation guidelines (ELGs) for feedlot operations in 1974, placing emphasis on best available technology in the industry at the time. In 1976, under the ELGs, the EPA began requiring all CAFOs to be first defined as AFOs. From that point, if the specific AFO met the appropriate criteria, it would then be classified as a CAFO and subject to appropriate regulation. That same year, EPA defined livestock and poultry CAFO facilities and established a specialized permitting program. NPDES permits specifications for CAFOs were also promulgated by the EPA in 1976.\n\nPrior to 1976, size had been the main defining criteria of CAFOs. However, after the 1976 regulations came into effect, the EPA stipulated some exceptions. Operations that were identified as particularly harmful to federal waterways could be classified as CAFOs, even if the facilities’ sizes fall under AFOs standards. Additionally, some CAFOs were not required to apply for wastewater discharge permits if they met the two major operational-based exemptions. The first exception applied to operations that discharge wastewater only during a 25-year, 24-hour storm event. (The operation only discharges during a 24-hour rainfall period that occurs once every 25 years or more on average.) The second exception was when operations apply animal waste onto agricultural land.\n\nIn 1989, the Natural Resources Defense Council and Public Citizen filed a lawsuit against the EPA (and Administrator of the EPA, William Reilly). The plaintiffs claimed the EPA had not complied with the CWA with respect to CAFOs. The lawsuit, \"Natural Resources Defense Council v. Reilly\" (D.D.C. 1991), resulted in a court order mandating the EPA update its regulations. They did so in what would become the 2003 Final Rule.\n\nIn 1995, the EPA released a \"Guide Manual on NPDES Regulations for Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations\" to provide more clarity to the public on NPDES regulation after the EPA’s report \"Feedlots Case Studies of Selected States\" revealed there was uncertainty in the public regarding CAFO regulatory terminology and criteria. Although the document is not a rule, it did offer insight and furthered public understanding of previous rules.\n\nIn his 1998 Clean Water Action Plan, President Bill Clinton directed the USDA and the EPA to join forces to develop a framework for future actions to improve national water quality standards for public health. The two federal agencies’ specific responsibility was to improve the management of animal waste runoff from agricultural activities. In 1998, the USDA and the EPA hosted eleven public meetings across the country to discuss animal feeding operations (AFOs).\n\nOn March 9, 1999 the agencies released the framework titled the \"Unified National Strategy for Animal Feeding Operations\". In the framework, the agencies recommended six major activities to be included in operations’ Comprehensive Nutrient Management Plans (CNMPs):\nThe framework also outlined two types of related programs. First, “voluntary programs” were designed to assist AFO operators with addressing public health and water quality problems. The framework outlines three types of voluntary programs available: “locally led conservation,” “environmental education,” and “financial and technical assistance.” The framework explained that those that participate in voluntary programs are not required to have a comprehensive nutrient management plan (CNMP). The second type of program outlined by the framework was \"regulatory\", which includes command-and-control regulation with NPDES permitting.\n\nAccording to the EPA, the purpose of the 2003 rule was to update decades-old policies to reflect new technology advancements and increase the expected pollution mitigation from CAFOs. The EPA was also responding to a 1991 court order based on the district court's decision in \"Natural Resources Defense Council v. Reilly\". The final rule took effect on April 14, 2003 and responded to public comments received following the issuance of the proposed rule in 2000. The EPA allowed authorized NPDES states until February 2005 to update their programs and develop technical standards.\n\nThe 2003 rule established \"non-numerical best management practices\" (BMPs) for CAFOs that apply both to the \"production areas\" (e.g. the animal confinement area and the manure storage area) and, for the first time ever, to the \"land application area\" (land to which manure and other animal waste is applied as fertilizer). The standards for BMPs in the 2003 rule vary depending on the regulated area of the CAFO: \n\nThe 2003 rule also requires CAFOs to submit an annual performance report to the EPA and to develop and implement a comprehensive nutrient management plan (NMP) for handling animal waste. Lastly, in an attempt to broaden the scope of regulated facilities, the 2003 rule expanded the number of CAFOs required to apply for NPDES permits by making it mandatory for \"all\" CAFOs (not just those who actually discharge pollutants into waters of the United States). Many of the provisions of the rule were affected by the Second Circuit's decision issued in \"Waterkeeper Alliance v. EPA.\"\n\nEnvironmental and farm industry groups challenged the 2003 final rule in court, and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision in the consolidated case \"Waterkeeper Alliance, Inc. v. EPA\", 399 F.3d 486 (2nd Cir. 2005). The Second Circuit's decision reflected a \"partial victory\" for both environmentalists and industry, as all parties were \"unsatisfied to at least some extent\" with the court's decision. The court's decision addressed four main issues with the 2003 final rule promulgated by the EPA:\n\nThe EPA published revised regulations that address the Second Circuit court’s decision in \"Waterkeeper Alliance, Inc. v. EPA\" on November 20, 2008 (effective December 22, 2008). The 2008 final rule revised and amended the 2003 final rule.\n\nThe 2008 rule addresses each point of the court's decision in \"Waterkeeper Alliance v. EPA.\" Specifically, the EPA adopted the following measures:\nThe 2008 final rule also specifies two approaches that a CAFO may use to identify the \"annual maximum rates of application of manure, litter, and process wastewater by field and crop for each year of permit coverage.\" The linear approach expresses the rate in terms of the \"amount of nitrogen and phosphorus from manure, litter, and process wastewater allowed to be applied.\" The narrative rate approach expresses the amount in terms of a \"narrative rate prescribing how to calculate the amount of manure, litter, and process wastewater allowed to be applied. The EPA believes that the narrative approach gives CAFO operators the most flexibility. Normally, CAFO operators are subject to the terms of their permit for a period of 5 years. Under the narrative approach, CAFO operators can use \"real time\" data to determine the rates of application. As a result, CAFO operators can more easily \"change their crop rotation, form and source of manure, litter, and process wastewater, as well as the timing and method of application\" without having to seek a revision to the terms of their NPDES permits.\n\nThe EPA points to several tools available to assist CAFO operators in meeting their obligations under the CWA. First, the EPA awards federal grants to provide technical assistance to livestock operators for preventing discharges of water pollution (and reducing air pollution). The EPA claims that CAFOs can obtain an NMP for free under these grants. Recently, the annual amount of the grant totaled $8 million. Second, a Manure Management Planner (MMP) software program has been developed by Purdue University in conjunction with funding by a federal grant. The MMP is tailored to each state's technical standards (including Phosphorus Indexes and other assessment tools). The MMP program provides free assistance to both permitting authorities and CAFO operators and can be found at the Purdue University website. Lastly, the EPA notes that the USDA offers a \"range of support services,\" including a long-term program that aims to assist CAFOs with NMPs.\n\nEnvironmentalists argue that the standards under the CWA are not strong enough. Researchers have identified regions in the country that have weak enforcement of regulations and, therefore, are popular locations for CAFO developers looking to reduce cost and expand operations without strict government oversight. Even when laws are enforced, there is the risk of environmental accidents. The massive 1995 manure spill in North Carolina highlights the reality that contamination can happen even when it is not done maliciously. The question of whether such a spill could have been avoided is a contributing factor in the debate for policy reform.\n\nEnvironmental groups have criticized the EPA's regulation of CAFOs on several specific grounds, including the following.\n\nConversely, industry groups criticize the EPA's rules as overly stringent. Industry groups vocally opposed the requirement in the 2008 rule (since struck down by the Fifth Circuit) that required CAFOs to seek a permit if they \"propose to discharge\" into waters of the United States. Generally speaking, the farm industry disputes the presumption that CAFOs do discharge pollutants and it therefore objects to the pressure that the EPA places on CAFOs to voluntarily seek an NPDES permit. As a starting point, farm industry groups \"emphasize that most farmers are diligent stewards of the environment, since they depend on natural resources of the land, water, and air for their livelihoods and they, too, directly experience adverse impacts on water and air quality.\" Some of the agricultural industry groups continue to maintain that the EPA should have no authority to regulate any of the runoff from land application areas because they believe this constitutes a nonpoint source that is outside the scope of the CWA. According to this viewpoint, voluntary programs adequately address any problems with excess manure.\n\nThe role of the federal government in environmental issues is generally to set national guidelines and the state governments’ role is to address specific issues. The framework of federal goals is as such that the responsibility to prevent, reduce, and eliminate pollution are the responsibility of the states.\n\nThe management of water and air standards follows this authoritative structure. States that have been authorized by the EPA to directly issue permits under NPDES (also known as \"NPDES states\") have received jurisdiction over CAFOs. As a result of this delegation of authority from the EPA, CAFO permitting procedures and standards may vary from state to state.\n\nSpecifically for water pollution, the federal government establishes federal standards for wastewater discharge and authorized states develop their own wastewater policies to fall in compliance. More specifically, what a state allows an individual CAFO to discharge must be as strict or stricter than the federal government's standard. This protection includes all waterways, whether or not the water body can safely sustain aquatic life or house public recreational activities. Higher standards are upheld in some cases of pristine publicly owned waterways, such as parks. They keep higher standards in order to maintain the pristine nature of the environment for preservation and recreation. Exceptions are in place for lower water quality standards in certain waterways if it is deemed economically significant. These policy patterns are significant when considering the role of state governments’ in CAFO permitting.\n\nFederal law requires CAFOs to obtain NPDES permits before wastewater may be discharged from the facility. The state agency responsible for approving permits for CAFOs in a given state is dependent on the authorization of that state. The permitting process is divided into two main methods based on a state’s authorization status. As of 2018, EPA has authorized 47 states to issue NPDES permits. Although they have their own state-specific permitting standards, permitting requirements in authorized states must be at least as stringent as the federal standards. In the remaining states and territories, an EPA regional office issues NPDES permits.\n\nA state’s authority and the state’s environmental regulatory framework will determine the permit process and the state offices involved. Below are two examples of states’ permitting organization.\n\nArizona issues permits through a general permitting process. CAFOs must obtain both a general Arizona Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (AZPDES) Permit and a general Aquifer Protection Permit. The Arizona state agency tasked with managing permitting is the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ).\n\nFor the Aquifer Protection Permit, CAFOs are automatically permitted if they comply with the state’s BMP outlined in the relevant state rule, listed on the ADEQ’s website. Their compliance is evaluated through agency CAFO Inspection Program’s onsite inspections. If a facility is found to be unlawfully discharging, then the agency may issue warnings and, if necessary, file suit against the facility. For the AZPDES permit, CAFOs are required to submit a Notice of Intent to the ADEQ. In addition, they must complete and submit a Nutrient Management Plan (NMP) for the state’s annual report.\n\nEven in an authorized state, the EPA maintains oversight of state permitting programs. This would be most likely to happen in the event that a complaint is filed with the EPA by a third party. For instance, in 2008, Illinois Citizens for Clean Air & Water filed a complaint with the EPA arguing that the state was not properly implementing its CAFO permitting program. The EPA responded with an \"informal\" investigation. In a report released in 2010, the agency sided with the environmental organization and provided a list of recommendations and required action for the state to meet.\n\nIn unauthorized states, the EPA has the authority for issuing NPDES permits. In these states, such as Massachusetts, CAFOs communicate and file required documentation through an EPA regional office. In Massachusetts, the EPA issues a general permit for the entire state. The state’s Department of Agricultural Resources (MDAR) has an agreement with the EPA for the implementation of CAFO rules. MDAR’s major responsibility is educational. The agency assists operators in determining if their facility qualifies as a CAFO. Specifically they do onsite evaluations of facilities, provide advice on best practices, and provide information and technical assistance.\n\nIf a state has additional state specific rules for water quality standards, the state government maintains the authority for permitting. For instance, New Mexico, also unauthorized, requires CAFOs and AFOs to obtain a Groundwater Permit if the facilities discharge waste in a manner that might affect local groundwater. The EPA is not involved in the issuing of this state permit. Massachusetts, however, does not have additional state permit requirements.\n\nState planning laws and local zoning ordinances represent the main policy tools for regulating land use. Many states have adopted legislation that specifically exempt CAFOs (and other agricultural entities) from zoning regulations. The promulgation of so-called \"right to farm\" statutes have provided, in some instances, a shield from liability for CAFOs (and other potential nuisances in agricultural). More specifically, the right-to-farm statutes seek to \"limit the circumstances under which agricultural operations can be deemed nuisances.\"\n\nThe history of these agricultural exemptions dates back to the 1950s. Right-to-farm statutes expanded in the 1970s when state legislatures became increasingly sensitive to the loss of rural farmland to urban expansion. The statutes were enacted at a time when CAFOs and \"modern confinement operations did not factor into legislator's perceptions of the beneficiaries of [the] generosity\" of such statutes. Forty-three (43) states now have some sort of statutory protection for farmers from nuisance. Some of these states (such as Iowa, Oklahoma, Wyoming, Tennessee, and Kansas) also provide specific protection to animal feeding operations (AFOs) and CAFOs. Right-to-farm statutes vary in form. Some states, for instance, require agricultural operation be located \"within an acknowledged and approved agricultural district\" in order to receive protection; other states do not.\n\nOpponents of CAFOs have challenged right-to-farm statutes in court, and the constitutionality of such statutes is not entirely clear. The Iowa Supreme Court, for instance, struck down a right-to-farm statute as a \"taking\" (in violation of the 5th and 14th Amendments of the U.S. Constitution) because the statute stripped neighboring landowners of property rights without compensation.\n\nCAFOs are potentially subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act (CAA), but the emissions from CAFOs generally do not exceed established statutory thresholds. In addition, the EPA's regulations do not provide a clear methodology for measuring emissions from CAFOs, which has \"vexed both regulators and the industry.\" Negotiations between the EPA and the agricultural industry did, however, result in an Air Compliance Agreement in January 2005. According to the agreement, certain animal feeding operations (AFOs) received a covenant not to sue from the EPA in exchange for payment of a civil penalty for past violations of the CAA and an agreement to allow their facilities to be monitored for a study on air pollution emissions in the agricultural sector. Results and analysis of the EPA's study are scheduled to be released later in 2011.\n\nEnvironmental groups have formally proposed to tighten EPA regulation of air pollution from CAFOs. A coalition of environmental groups petitioned the EPA on April 6, 2011 to designate ammonia as a \"criteria pollutant\" and establish National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for ammonia from CAFOs. The petition alleges that \"CAFOs are leading contributors to the nation’s ammonia inventory; by one EPA estimate livestock account for approximately 80 percent of total emissions. CAFOs also emit a disproportionately large share of the ammonia in certain states and communities.” If the EPA adopts the petition, CAFOs and other sources of ammonia would be subject to the permitting requirements of the CAA.\n\n"}
{"id": "82804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82804", "title": "Convergent evolution", "text": "Convergent evolution\n\nConvergent evolution is the independent evolution of similar features in species of different lineages. Convergent evolution creates analogous structures that have similar form or function but were not present in the last common ancestor of those groups. The cladistic term for the same phenomenon is homoplasy. The recurrent evolution of flight is a classic example, as flying insects, birds, pterosaurs, and bats have independently evolved the useful capacity of flight. Functionally similar features that have arisen through convergent evolution are \"analogous\", whereas \"homologous\" structures or traits have a common origin but can have dissimilar functions. Bird, bat, and pterosaur wings are analogous structures, but their forelimbs are homologous, sharing an ancestral state despite serving different functions.\n\nThe opposite of convergence is divergent evolution, where related species evolve different traits. Convergent evolution is similar to parallel evolution, which occurs when two independent species evolve in the same direction and thus independently acquire similar characteristics; for instance, gliding frogs have evolved in parallel from multiple types of tree frog.\n\nMany instances of convergent evolution are known in plants, including the repeated development of C photosynthesis, seed dispersal by fleshy fruits adapted to be eaten by animals, and carnivory.\n\nIn morphology, analogous traits arise when different species live in similar ways and/or a similar environment, and so face the same environmental factors. When occupying similar ecological niches (that is, a distinctive way of life) similar problems can lead to similar solutions. The British anatomist Richard Owen was the first to identify the fundamental difference between analogies and homologies.\n\nIn biochemistry, physical and chemical constraints on mechanisms have caused some active site arrangements such as the catalytic triad to evolve independently in separate enzyme superfamilies.\n\nIn his 1989 book \"Wonderful Life\", Stephen Jay Gould argued that if one could \"rewind the tape of life [and] the same conditions were encountered again, evolution could take a very different course\". Simon Conway Morris disputes this conclusion, arguing that convergence is a dominant force in evolution, and given that the same environmental and physical constraints are at work, life will inevitably evolve toward an \"optimum\" body plan, and at some point, evolution is bound to stumble upon intelligence, a trait presently identified with at least primates, corvids, and cetaceans.\n\nIn cladistics, a homoplasy is a trait shared by two or more taxa for any reason other than that they share a common ancestry. Taxa which do share ancestry are part of the same clade; cladistics seeks to arrange them according to their degree of relatedness to describe their phylogeny. Homoplastic traits caused by convergence are therefore, from the point of view of cladistics, confounding factors which could lead to an incorrect analysis.\n\nIn some cases, it is difficult to tell whether a trait has been lost and then re-evolved convergently, or whether a gene has simply been switched off and then re-enabled later. Such a re-emerged trait is called an atavism. From a mathematical standpoint, an unused gene (selectively neutral) has a steadily decreasing probability of retaining potential functionality over time. The time scale of this process varies greatly in different phylogenies; in mammals and birds, there is a reasonable probability of remaining in the genome in a potentially functional state for around 6 million years.\n\nWhen two species are similar in a particular character, evolution is defined as parallel if the ancestors were also similar, and convergent if they were not. Some scientists have argued that there is a continuum between parallel and convergent evolution, while others maintain that despite some overlap, there are still important distinctions between the two.\n\nWhen the ancestral forms are unspecified or unknown, or the range of traits considered is not clearly specified, the distinction between parallel and convergent evolution becomes more subjective. For instance, the striking example of similar placental and marsupial forms is described by Richard Dawkins in \"The Blind Watchmaker\" as a case of convergent evolution, because mammals on each continent had a long evolutionary history prior to the extinction of the dinosaurs under which to accumulate relevant differences.\n\nThe enzymology of proteases provides some of the clearest examples of convergent evolution. These examples reflect the intrinsic chemical constraints on enzymes, leading evolution to converge on equivalent solutions independently and repeatedly.\n\nSerine and cysteine proteases use different amino acid functional groups (alcohol or thiol) as a nucleophile. In order to activate that nucleophile, they orient an acidic and a basic residue in a catalytic triad. The chemical and physical constraints on enzyme catalysis have caused identical triad arrangements to evolve independently more than 20 times in different enzyme superfamilies.\n\nThreonine proteases use the amino acid threonine as their catalytic nucleophile. Unlike cysteine and serine, threonine is a secondary alcohol (i.e. has a methyl group). The methyl group of threonine greatly restricts the possible orientations of triad and substrate, as the methyl clashes with either the enzyme backbone or the histidine base. Consequently, most threonine proteases use an N-terminal threonine in order to avoid such steric clashes.\nSeveral evolutionarily independent enzyme superfamilies with different protein folds use the N-terminal residue as a nucleophile. This commonality of active site but difference of protein fold indicates that the active site evolved convergently in those families.\n\nConvergence occurs at the level of DNA and the amino acid sequences produced by translating structural genes into proteins. Studies have found convergence in amino acid sequences in echolocating bats and the dolphin; among marine mammals; between giant and red pandas; and between the thylacine and canids. Convergence has also been detected in a type of non-coding DNA, cis-regulatory elements, such as in their rates of evolution; this could indicate either positive selection or relaxed purifying selection.\n\nSwimming animals including fish such as herrings, marine mammals such as dolphins, and ichthyosaurs (of the Mesozoic) all converged on the same streamlined shape. The fusiform bodyshape (a tube tapered at both ends) adopted by many aquatic animals is an adaptation to enable them to travel at high speed in a high drag environment. Similar body shapes are found in the earless seals and the eared seals: they still have four legs, but these are strongly modified for swimming.\n\nThe marsupial fauna of Australia and the placental mammals of the Old World have several strikingly similar forms, developed in two clades, isolated from each other. The body and especially the skull shape of the thylacine (Tasmanian wolf) converged with those of Canidae such as the red fox, \"Vulpes vulpes\".\n\nAs a sensory adaptation, echolocation has evolved separately in cetaceans (dolphins and whales) and bats, but from the same genetic mutations.\n\nOne of the best-known examples of convergent evolution is the camera eye of cephalopods (such as squid and octopus), vertebrates (including mammals) and cnidaria (such as jellyfish). Their last common ancestor had at most a simple photoreceptive spot, but a range of processes led to the progressive refinement of camera eyes — with one sharp difference: the cephalopod eye is \"wired\" in the opposite direction, with blood and nerve vessels entering from the back of the retina, rather than the front as in vertebrates. As a result, cephalopods lack a blind spot.\n\nBirds and bats have homologous limbs because they are both ultimately derived from terrestrial tetrapods, but their flight mechanisms are only analogous, so their wings are examples of functional convergence. The two groups have powered flight, evolved independently. Their wings differ substantially in construction. The bat wing is a membrane stretched across four extremely elongated fingers and the legs. The airfoil of the bird wing is made of feathers, strongly attached to the forearm (the ulna) and the highly fused bones of the wrist and hand (the carpometacarpus), with only tiny remnants of two fingers remaining, each anchoring a single feather. So, while the wings of bats and birds are functionally convergent, they are not anatomically convergent. Birds and bats also share a high concentration of cerebrosides in the skin of their wings. This improves skin flexibility, a trait useful for flying animals; other mammals have a far lower concentration. The extinct pterosaurs independently evolved wings from their fore- and hindlimbs, while insects have wings that evolved separately from different organs.\n\nFlying squirrels and sugar gliders are much alike in their body plans, with gliding wings stretched between their limbs, but flying squirrels are placental mammals while sugar gliders are marsupials, widely separated within the mammal lineage.\n\nInsect mouthparts show many examples of convergent evolution. The mouthparts of different insect groups consist of a set of homologous organs, specialised for the dietary intake of that insect group. Convergent evolution of many groups of insects led from original biting-chewing mouthparts to different, more specialised, derived function types. These include, for example, the proboscis of flower-visiting insects such as bees and flower beetles, or the biting-sucking mouthparts of blood-sucking insects such as fleas and mosquitos.\n\nOpposable thumbs allowing the grasping of objects are most often associated with primates, like humans, monkeys, apes, and lemurs. Opposable thumbs also evolved in giant pandas, but these are completely different in structure, having six fingers including the thumb, which develops from a wrist bone entirely separately from other fingers.\n\nConvergent evolution in humans includes blue eye colour and light skin colour. When humans migrated out of Africa, they moved to more northern latitudes with less intense sunlight. It was beneficial to them to reduce their skin pigmentation. It appears certain that there was some lightening of skin colour \"before\" European and East Asian lineages diverged, as there are some skin-lightening genetic differences that are common to both groups. However, after the lineages diverged and became genetically isolated, the skin of both groups lightened more, and that additional lightening was due to \"different\" genetic changes.\n\nLemurs and humans are both primates. Ancestral primates had brown eyes, as most primates do today. The genetic basis of blue eyes in humans has been studied in detail and much is known about it. It is not the case that one gene locus is responsible, say with brown dominant to blue eye colour. However, a single locus is responsible for about 80% of the variation. In lemurs, the differences between blue and brown eyes are not completely known, but the same gene locus is not involved.\n\nWhile convergent evolution is often illustrated with animal examples, it has often occurred in plant evolution. For instance, C photosynthesis, one of the three major carbon-fixing biochemical processes, has arisen independently up to 40 times. About 7,600 plant species of angiosperms use carbon fixation, with many monocots including 46% of grasses such as maize and sugar cane, and dicots including several species in the Chenopodiaceae and the Amaranthaceae.\n\nA good example of convergence in plants is the evolution of edible fruits such as apples. These pomes incorporate (five) carpels and their accessory tissues forming the apple's core, surrounded by structures from outside the botanical fruit, the receptacle or hypanthium. Other edible fruits include other plant tissues; for example, the fleshy part of a tomato is the walls of the pericarp. This implies convergent evolution under selective pressure, in this case the competition for seed dispersal by animals through consumption of fleshy fruits.\n\nSeed dispersal by ants (myrmecochory) has evolved independently more than 100 times, and is present in more than 11,000 plant species. It is one of the most dramatic examples of convergent evolution in biology.\n\nCarnivory has evolved multiple times independently in plants in widely separated groups. In three species studied, \"Cephalotus follicularis\", \"Nepenthes alata\" and \"Sarracenia purpurea\", there has been convergence at the molecular level. Carnivorous plants secrete enzymes into the digestive fluid they produce. By studying phosphatase, glycoside hydrolase, glucanase, RNAse and chitinase enzymes as well as a pathogenesis-related protein and a thaumatin-related protein, the authors found many convergent amino acid substitutions. These changes were not at the enzymes' catalytic sites, but rather on the exposed surfaces of the proteins, where they might interact with other components of the cell or the digestive fluid. The authors also found that homologous genes in the non-carnivorous plant \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" tend to have their expression increased when the plant is stressed, leading the authors to suggest that stress-responsive proteins have often been co-opted in the repeated evolution of carnivory.\n\nPhylogenetic reconstruction and ancestral state reconstruction proceed by assuming that evolution has occurred without convergence. Convergent patterns may, however, appear at higher levels in a phylogenetic reconstruction, and are sometimes explicitly sought by investigators. The methods applied to infer convergent evolution depend on whether pattern-based or process-based convergence is expected. Pattern-based convergence is the broader term, for when two or more lineages independently evolve patterns of similar traits. Process-based convergence is when the convergence is due to similar forces of natural selection.\n\nEarlier methods for measuring convergence incorporate ratios of phenotypic and phylogenetic distance by simulating evolution with a Brownian motion model of trait evolution along a phylogeny. More recent methods also quantify the strength of convergence. One drawback to keep in mind is that these methods can confuse long-term stasis with convergence due to phenotypic similarities. Stasis occurs when there is little evolutionary change among taxa.\n\nDistance-based measures assess the degree of similarity between lineages over time. Frequency-based measures assess the number of lineages that have evolved in a particular trait space.\n\nMethods to infer process-based convergence fit models of selection to a phylogeny and continuous trait data to determine whether the same selective forces have acted upon lineages. This uses the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck (OU) process to test different scenarios of selection. Other methods rely on an \"a priori\" specification of where shifts in selection have occurred.\n\n"}
{"id": "27062681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27062681", "title": "Couple costume", "text": "Couple costume\n\nCouple costume and Couple look are Chinglish and Konglish terms, respectively, for the practice of a couple wearing the same hat, T-shirt, or other clothing in public to signal their relationship. It is mainly found in South Korea and Taiwan, Vietnam and is becoming more common in mainland China during its reform and opening. \n\nYoung Asian couples announce their relationship status by sporting the same clothes when they go out together. Today, this is a fashion trend among young couples. Couples usually wear matching T-shirts, shirts, hoodies, sweaters, and jackets or coats. These clothes are often printed with funny graphics or slogans, so that they are suitable for younger people. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2276217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276217", "title": "Cuneiform law", "text": "Cuneiform law\n\nCuneiform law refers to any of the legal codes written in cuneiform script, that were developed and used throughout the ancient Middle East among the Sumerians, Babylonians, Assyrians, Elamites, Hurrians, Kassites, and Hittites. The Code of Hammurabi is the most well-known of the cuneiform laws, but there were a number of precursor laws.\n\nAlthough they were written in several different cities and kingdoms, these early laws have a number of formulae in common. Most contain both an epilogue and a prologue, which usually explain the purpose of composing the laws, invoke divine authority, and command the reader to abide by them. They are always imposed or 'enacted' in the name of a ruler, be it a prince or king, and show no sign of being the result of legislative bodies.\n\nWhile many of these codes are only partially known, they nevertheless paint a fairly clear picture that enables us to learn what issues pertaining to rules were considered significant by the societies they governed in the 3rd, 2nd, and 1st millennia BC.\n\nUnlike modern codes, Cuneiform law provides no universal formula for general areas of law. Rather, laws typically consist of specific \"if... then...\" cases that are meant to act as an example or precedent. Punishments for crimes vary from code to code, but not all prescribe vengeance. Some call only for fines in certain instances, such as in the Code of Ur-Nammu, where one line reads: \"If a man knocks out the eye of another man, he shall weigh out one-half a mina of silver.\" These cases are sometimes arranged in a seemingly random order, though this may be the result of an inability to properly interpret them today as they would have been at the time they were in force.\n\nCuneiform law is generally classified separately from later Middle Eastern law, but has been viewed as a predecessor of Biblical and Jewish law. The communities of the Middle East that made use of cuneiform law were generally all in contact with one another, and developed similar cultures. Akkadian, a cuneiform language, was used throughout the entire area, and even as far as Egypt, for diplomatic communications during the Amarna Period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55028839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55028839", "title": "Daphna Joel", "text": "Daphna Joel\n\nDaphna Joel head of the psychobiology graduate program and the Chair of the PhD Committee at the School of Psychological Sciences and a member of the Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel-Aviv University, Israel.\n\nJoel is a member of The NeuroGenderings Network and has advocated in the media for a less gender essentialist approach to neuroscience.\n\n"}
{"id": "16591429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16591429", "title": "Deep homology", "text": "Deep homology\n\nIn evolutionary developmental biology, the concept of deep homology is used to describe cases where growth and differentiation processes are governed by genetic mechanisms that are homologous and deeply conserved across a wide range of species.\n\nIn 1822, the French zoologist Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire dissected a crayfish, discovering that its body is organised like a vertebrate's, but inverted belly to back (dorsoventrally):\n\nGeoffroy's homology theory was denounced by the leading French zoologist of his day, Georges Cuvier, but in 1994, Geoffroy was shown to be correct. In 1915, Santiago Ramon y Cajal mapped the neural connections of the optic lobes of a fly, finding that these resembled those of vertebrates. In 1978, Edward B. Lewis helped to found evolutionary developmental biology, discovering that homeotic genes regulated embryonic development in fruit flies.\n\nIn 1997, the term deep homology first appeared in a paper by Neil Shubin, Cliff Tabin, and Sean B. Carroll, describing the apparent relatedness in genetic regulatory apparatuses which indicated evolutionary similarities in disparate animal features.\n\nWhereas ordinary homology is seen in the pattern of structures such as limb bones of mammals that are evidently related, deep homology can apply to groups of animals that have quite dissimilar anatomy: vertebrates (with endoskeletons made of bone and cartilage) and arthropods (with exoskeletons made of chitin) nevertheless have limbs that are constructed using similar recipes or \"algorithms\".\n\nWithin the metazoa, homeotic genes control differentiation along major body axes, and pax genes (especially PAX6) help to control the development of the eye and other sensory organs. The deep homology applies across widely separated groups, such as in the eyes of mammals and the structurally quite different compound eyes of insects.\n\nSimilarly, hox genes help to form an animal's segmentation pattern. HoxA and HoxD, that regulate finger and toe formation in mice, control the development of ray fins in zebrafish; these structures had until then been considered non-homologous.\n\nThere is a possible deep homology among animals that use acoustic communication, such as songbirds and humans, which may share unmutated versions of the FOXP2 gene.\n\nIn 2010, a team led by Edward Marcotte developed an algorithm that identifies deeply homologous genetic modules in unicellular organisms, plants, and animals based on phenotypes (such as traits and developmental defects). The technique aligns phenotypes across organisms based on orthology (a type of homology) of genes involved in the phenotypes.\n"}
{"id": "15024672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15024672", "title": "Democrates", "text": "Democrates\n\nDemocrates (; ) was a Pythagorean philosopher about whom little is known. Apollonius of Tyana wrote at least one letter to a Democrates, \"Epistle 88\".\n\nA collection of moral maxims, called the \"Golden Sentences\" () has come down to us under his name. However, many scholars argue that these maxims all originate from an original collection of sayings of Democritus, though others believe that there was a different little-known Democrates whose name became confused with the much better-known Democritus.\n\nThe maxims are written in the Ionic dialect, from which some scholars have inferred, that they were written at a very early period. Others think it more probable that they are the production of the age of Julius Caesar. But nothing can be said with certainty, for want of both external and internal evidence. Some of these sentences are quoted by Stobaeus, and are found in some manuscripts under the name of Democritus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26899002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26899002", "title": "Dickinson S. Miller", "text": "Dickinson S. Miller\n\nDickinson Sargeant Miller (October 7, 1868 – November 13, 1963) worked with many world-renowned philosophers, including William James, George Santayana, John Dewey, Edmund Husserl, and Ludwig Wittgenstein.\n\nMiller received the A.B. degree in 1889 under George Fullerton at the University of Pennsylvania. He studied psychology under G. Stanley Hall at Clark University for a year, and then went to Harvard where he was a graduate student under William James, G. H. Palmer, Josiah Royce, and Santayana. He received the A.M. from Harvard in 1892.\n\nHe then spent a year in Germany studying at Berlin and Halle under Max Dessoir, Hermann Ebbinghaus, and Friedrich Paulsen, earning his Ph.D. with a dissertation on \"Das Wesen der Erkenntnis und des Irrthums\", which was published as \"The Meaning of Truth and Error\" in \"The Philosophical Review\" in 1893.\n\nThis article led James to abandon Royce's solution of the knowledge problem in terms of an absolute mind. James recommended Miller to a post at Bryn Mawr College in 1893, where he was a close friend of Woodrow Wilson.\n\nIn 1899, Miller became a strong critic of James's famous arguments in \"The Will to Believe\" that the beneficial effects of a belief somehow increased its \"truth.\" His critical article was \"The Will to Believe and the Duty to Doubt.\"\n\nMiller left Bryn Mawr that year to become an instructor of philosophy at Harvard, where he had a strong and productive collaboration with James. James referred to Miller as \"my most penetrating critic and intimate enemy.\" \n\nIn 1904, Miller left Harvard to be a lecturer in philosophy at Columbia and professor in 1911. There he worked with Arthur O. Lovejoy and John Dewey.\n\nMiller retired from academic work after two years at Smith College (1926-26) and went into a \"European retirement.\" He visited Rome at first and then alternated between Florence and Vienna, where he made contact with the \"Vienna Circle\" of philosophers, including Moritz Schlick, Otto Neurath, Rudolf Carnap, Herbert Feigl, and others.\n\nMiller challenged a basic principle of the Circle that \"no sentence can be admitted to philosophical thought as having a meaning unless it is verifiable in experience.\" Such a principle, he argued \"cuts the ground from under its own feet\" because a sentence has to already have meaning before you can apply the test.\n\nIn Vienna he met with Ludwig Wittgenstein who was then loosely associated with the Vienna Circle.\n\nIn 1934, as Miller left to return for America, he published a landmark article in \"Mind\" under the pseudonym R. E. Hobart.\n\nHe analyzed the relationship between \"could\" and \"can\" in the sense of choosing to do otherwise in the same circumstances and he claimed that the controversy of free will \"versus\" determinism was a waste of energy over a false antithesis. At least some determinism is not a problem for free will but a feature.\n\nThe article was titled \"Free Will as Involving Determination and Inconceivable Without It,\" but it is widely misquoted as \"Involving Determinism.\" His biographer, Loyd Easton, correctly describes it as \"an acute example of 'soft determinism' or 'reconciliationism'.\"\n\nThe problem of \"determinism\" \"versus\" free will that William James was concerned about was the strict causal determines that is better called predeterminism where every event is determined in a causal chain back to the beginning of time, and there is \"but one possible future,\" as James put it.\n\nFar from \"reconciling\" free will with this kind of determinism, as David Hume said that he had done in his \"reconciling project,\", James proposed the first two-stage model of free will that denies predeterminism and accepts absolute chance as necessary for the generation of alternative possibilities, which are the source of \"ambiguous futures\" selected by the determination, but not predetermination, of the will.\n\nMiller/Hobart dissents from James's new idea about free will, constructing a distinctive reconciling compatibilism that dispenses with any requirement for chance in the analysis of what persons' abilities to perform alternate acts. Rather than analyzing causality as Hume did, Hobart focuses on moral evaluation of acts and character.\n\nWriting about six years after the discovery of quantum indeterminacy, Hobart explicitly does not endorse strict logical or physical determinism, and he explicitly does endorse the existence of alternative possibilities, i.e., that we can do otherwise in the same circumstances. Hobart does not, however, attribute those possibilities to absolute chance.\n\nHe says:\n\nWe can contrast Hobart with William James's claim that there are ambiguous futures. The second paragraph is not inconsistent with the two-stage model of free will - first \"free\" courses of action present themselves, then an adequately determined \"will\" chooses between them, in a temporal sequence. However, the first paragraph denies that any randomness in the decision process, including the presentation of options, adds to freedom.\n\nHobart refers to G. E. Moore's idea that one could have done otherwise - \"if\" one had chosen otherwise. But Hobart views the \"if\" as redundant, and therefore licenses the claim that we could have done otherwise, full stop.\nHobart finds fault with the indeterminist's position, but he gives the typical overstatement by a determinist critic, that any chance will be the direct cause of our actions, which of course would clearly be a loss of freedom and responsibility\n\nPossibly Hobart has William James in mind as \"the indeterminist.\" However, the only inderminist philosopher named in the article is Eddington. James would not have denied that our will is an act of determination, consistent with, and in some sense \"caused by\" our character and values, our habits, and our current feelings and desires. He simply wanted chance to provide alternative possibilities for actions and a break in the causal chain of strict determinism.\n\nHobart sees no need for such chance, and no addition to freedom to be had by it. The freedom we take ourselves to have is fully consistent with thorough-going determinism regarding human action.\n"}
{"id": "42563586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42563586", "title": "Dioscorides (Stoic)", "text": "Dioscorides (Stoic)\n\nDioscorides (, fl. 225 BC), sometimes known as Dioscurides, was a Stoic philosopher, the father of Zeno of Tarsus and a pupil of Chrysippus. All other information has been lost.\n\nAnother Dioscorides is mentioned by Diogenes Laërtius. This philosopher was a Pyrrhonist, and was a student of Timon of Phlius\n\nChrysippus dedicated the following works to Dioscorides:\n"}
{"id": "28094580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28094580", "title": "Ebenezer Cooke (art education reformer)", "text": "Ebenezer Cooke (art education reformer)\n\nEbenezer Cooke (1837-1913) was an art master and pioneer in art education.\n\nAn apprenticed lithographic draughtsman, he was introduced by his brother to the lectures of Frederick Denison Maurice at the Hall of Association, 34 Castle Street East, London, in 1853 and the summer of 1854. When the Working Men’s College was formed in 1854, he attended John Ruskin’s first drawing classes. After an unsuccessful partnership with John Fotheringham, also a student at the college, he gave up his trade and then took to teaching though the influence of Ruskin. He succeeded Ruskin as a Drawing Master at the College, and taught at other London establishments.\n\nDuring the 1850s and 1860s Cooke was influenced by Herbert Spencer, and became a student of Pestalozzi, developing an enthusiasm for the Pestalozzian and Froebellian methods in which he became an influential interpreter. With Thomas Ablett, Alexander Bain, and psychologist James Sully, he furthered art education thinking; Sully and Cooke were a particular influence on each other.\n\nHe served on the Council of the Education Society (founded 1875) which later became Society for the Development of the Science of Education. In 1885 Cooke published an analysis of children’s drawings that became a great influence on teachers and researchers, and in 1894 published an English edition of Pestalozzi's \"How Gertrude Teaches Her Children\". In 1904 he sat on the Committee of the Third International Congress for the Development of Drawing and Art Teaching.\n\nVanessa Bell began her art education under the tutelage of Cooke.\n"}
{"id": "41958060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41958060", "title": "Edward F. Mooney", "text": "Edward F. Mooney\n\nEdward F. Mooney (born 1941) is a noted Kierkegaard scholar and was Professor of Religion and Philosophy through 2013 at Syracuse University.\nHe received his B.A. in philosophy from Oberlin College (1962) and his M.A. and Ph.D. from University of California, Santa Barbara (1968). His dissertation, written under Herbert Fingarette, linked studies of philosophical themes in literature [ Dostoevsky, The Book of Job] with the turn toward persons in the work of Austin, P. F. Strawson and Iris Murdoch. Mooney was a Professor of Philosophy at Sonoma State University from 1975 until 2002. While there he published books on Kierkegaard and several smaller studies. He then migrated to Syracuse University where his writing expanded to include studies of American Philosophy (Cavell, Bugbee, Wilshire, Thoreau, and others). He was President of the North American Kierkegaard Society for several years, in which capacity he lectured in Vilnia, Frankfurt, Reykjavik, Jerusalem, Ber-Shiva, Tel Aviv, Dartmouth, Johns Hopkins, Auburn, and elsewhere. He became Professor Emeritus at Syracuse in 2013 and during 2013-2015 was a visiting professor at Tel-Aviv and at Hebrew University, Jerusalem, teaching seminars in American Studies on Thoreau. \nMooney presently resides and teaches in Portland, Maine. He was a regular contributor to the interdisciplinary on-line journal Zeteo. His writing exemplifies the intersections among philosophy, religion, and poetry. One finds the clarity of Anglophone ordinary language philosophy joined to issues native to existential philosophy and religion. In recent years he has turned to Melville as exemplifying an informal and episodic conversationally developed philosophy well-suited to literary exposition and wisdom, embodying what Cavell calls \"passionate speech.\" His work has appeared in Japanese, Portuguese, French, Hebrew, and Spanish translation.\n\n\nMooney has published over one hundred articles and reviews on Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Camus, Cavell, Henry Bugbee, Rorty, Pippin, Melville, Thoreau, Henry James, Erik Erikson, Kristeva, and Gilligan (among others). His work has been translated into Japanese, French, Spanish, and Hebrew. Excerpts from \"Postcards Dropped in Flight\" were listed under \"Best Essays of 1998\" (Houghton Mifflin, 1999). He is much-cited in The Oxford Companion of Kierkegaard, and The Cambridge Companion to Kierkegaard's Fear and Trembling.\n\nMooney has given invited lectures across the USA and in Iceland, England, Germany, Israel, and Lithuania. He was invited to deliver the first Utech Memorial Lectures at the St. Olaf International Kierkegaard Conference, 2011. A Festschrift was held in his honor at the meetings of the American Academy of Religion, 2011. He is Past-President of the North American Kierkegaard Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2530872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2530872", "title": "Edwyn Bevan", "text": "Edwyn Bevan\n\nEdwyn Robert Bevan OBE, FBA (15 February 1870 in London – 18 October 1943 in London) was a versatile British philosopher and historian of the Hellenistic world.\n\nHe was the fourteenth of sixteen children of Robert Cooper Lee Bevan, a partner in Barclays Bank, and his second wife Emma Frances Shuttleworth, daughter of Philip Nicholas Shuttleworth, Bishop of Chichester.\n\nBevan held an academic position at King's College London as Lecturer in Hellenistic History and Literature. The Arabist Anthony Ashley Bevan was his brother, the conspiracy theorist Nesta Helen Webster was his youngest sister and the artist Robert Polhill Bevan a cousin. He married Daisy Waldegrave, daughter of Granville Waldegrave, 3rd Baron Radstock in 1896 and they had two daughters, Christina and Anne.\n\nBevan was awarded an honorary doctorate from St. Andrews in 1922 and an honorary D.Litt. from Oxford in 1923. In 1942 he became a Fellow of the British Academy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13012677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13012677", "title": "Essential facilities doctrine", "text": "Essential facilities doctrine\n\nThe essential facilities doctrine (sometimes also referred to as the essential facility doctrine) is a legal doctrine which describes a particular type of claim of monopolization made under competition laws. In general, it refers to a type of anti-competitive behavior in which a firm with market power uses a \"bottleneck\" in a market to deny competitors entry into the market. It is closely related to a claim for refusal to deal.\n\nThe doctrine has its origins in United States law, but it has been adopted (often with some modification) into the legal systems of the United Kingdom, Australia, South Africa, and the European Union.\n\nUnder the essential facilities doctrine, a monopolist found to own \"a facility essential to other competitors\" is required to provide reasonable use of that facility, unless some aspect of it precludes shared access. The basic elements of a legal claim under this doctrine under United States antitrust law, which a plaintiff is required to show to establish liability, are:\n\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court's ruling in \"Verizon v. Trinko\", 540 U.S. 398 (2004), in effect added a fifth element: absence of regulatory oversight from an agency (the Federal Communications Commission, in that case) with power to compel access.\n\nThese elements are difficult for potential plaintiffs to establish for several reasons. It is quite difficult for a plaintiff to demonstrate that a particular facility is \"essential\" to entry into and/or competition within the relevant market. The plaintiff must demonstrate that the \"facility\" must be something so indispensable to entry or competition that it would be impossible for smaller firms to compete with the market leader. Likewise, the plaintiff must show that compelling the dominant firm to permit others to use the facility would not interfere with the ability of the dominant firm to serve its own customers.\n\nThe first notable case to address the anti-competitive implications of an essential facility was the Supreme Court's judgment in \"United States v. Terminal Railroad Association\", 224 U.S. 383 (1912). A group of railroads controlling all railway bridges and switching yards into and out of St. Louis prevented competing railway companies from offering transportation to and through that destination. The court held it to be an illegal restraint of trade.\n\nSimilar decisions include,\n\nThere is controversy about what exactly constitutes an \"essential facility\". While the doctrine has most frequently been applied to natural monopolies such as utilities and owners of transportation facilities, it has also been applied in situations involving intellectual property. For example, it is possible for a court to apply the doctrine in a case where one competitor refuses to sell materials protected by copyright or patent to potential competitors.\n\n\nSullivan, E. Thomas, and Hovenkamp, Herbert. \"Antitrust Law, Policy, and Procedure: Cases, Materials, and Problems, Fifth Edition\". LexisNexis Publishers, 2004. pp. 701–706.\n\n"}
{"id": "53750001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53750001", "title": "Evolutionary Theory (journal)", "text": "Evolutionary Theory (journal)\n\nLeigh Van Valen was an evolutionary biologist that was notable for writing a multitude of scientific papers – roughly 300 over the course of his lifetime. Some of his most important theories included the Red Queen hypothesis which had been rejected by many respectable journals of the time. Van Valen began and published the peer reviewed journal : \"Evolutionary theory\" with its first issue in July 1973.\n\nThe very first article in \"Evolutionary Theory\" was written by Van Valen and titled “A New Evolutionary Law” – notably his most famous paper where he states his Red Queen Hypothesis. He also introduced what would become known as Van Valen’s law in this very same paper. The original name – law of constant extinction – states that “the probability of extinction for species and larger evolutionary groups bears no relation to how long it may have already existed”. He also contended that “The fossil record shows that lineages become neither more extinction-resistant nor more vulnerable over time”. \nOne of the journals that originally rejected Van Valen’s article, Nature (journal) , recognized the importance of his work by confirming his work with several follow-up studies.\n\"Evolutionary Theory\" is copyrighted by the University of Chicago where Van Valen managed the journal.\n\nOver the course of the journal 325 publications were made with 64 of those belonging to Van Valen.\n\n\"Evolutionary theory\" aimed for low cost and fast publication, compared to most journals where from start to finish publishing could be a very lengthy process. The journal branded itself as an “international journal of fact and interpretation”. The title cover also states that it is dedicated to the primacy of content over display, which also had a part in the low cost and rapid publication.\n\nThe journal itself in some ways was atypical as it allowed purely description papers, but reserved the right to reject more routine theoretical work. While there is no page minimum or maximum, \"Evolutionary Theory\" shied away from excessive wordiness, and in general was very welcoming to unconventional papers. Van Valen aimed to move away from discriminatory restrictions on page lengths, along with the fact that many journals had mandatory page charges, thus one of many reasons for long publication times during that era. \"Evolutionary Theory\" did not have a mandatory charge but maintained that a voluntary charge of $12.00 per page would be of assistance. The journal even went to state that the charge “cannot be expected of those without institutional or grant funds “, however partial charges were accepted. Each volume contained roughly 300 to 400 pages in total.\n\"Evolutionary theory\" is “not a substitute for others”. Thus, further solidifying that it was one of the more unconventional journals of its time. Van Valen even went so far as to state that the more “acceptable\" a work is the less original it is- most certainly a quip at other major journals of the time.\n\n\"Evolutionary theory\" covered a wide variety of topics within evolution and biology.\n\n\"The evolutionary half of biology: that part of biology where the center of interest is on organisms and populations, i.e., on the phenotype and its various interrelations rather than on molecules and cells for their own sake. This includes, but is not restricted to, ecology, paleontology, population genetics, plant and animal systematics, molecular evolution, comparative physiology and behavior, anatomy, biological philosophy and history (at the professional level, not meanderings), comparative cytology, anthropology, developmental patterns, and biogeography\".\n\nIn addition to traditional publications, speculations and critical discussion of book, papers or ideas were strongly welcomed. Papers that disagree with the editor’s view were also more likely to be published than those that agreed. Another item that promoted the rapid spread of ideas was that the journal would also publish abstracts of unpublished papers that had not yet been rejected.\n\nAll articles were published in English, however for articles that were not originally in English, a copy of the abstract in the native language could remain.\n\nFirst volume published: July 1973-December 1976\n\nFinal volume published: October 1999- to October 2003 \nMost volumes spanned roughly three years, however after volume nine the length varied from as little as one year-up until five.\n\nEditors:\n\n-Leigh Van Valen, Department of Ecology & Evolution, University of Chicago\n\n-Melissa Stoller, Department of Ecology & Evolution, University of Chicago\n\nManaging Editors:\n\n-Virginia C. Maiorana, Department of Ecology & Evolution, University of Chicago\n\nIn addition to the founding and creating of the journal, Van Valen also served as its editor up until its final publication in 2003.\nThe editorial board consisted of several notable individuals as well as several major institutions from all over the world, the number of individuals/ institutions listed varied from as much as 66 to 78 members over the course of the journal.\n\n\"Evolutionary Theory\" stressed low cost publication which can be reflected in its pricing. In 1973 – on the first issue the price for the individual journal was $4.00. Subscriptions were also offered and varied in price depending on several factors. The price for institutions in Latin America, Asia, Eastern Europe and Africa were priced at $6.00, everywhere else was listed as $15.00. Individual subscriptions were offered at a rate of $10.00, or $6.00 if the individual had an income of less than $10,000.\n\nPrices in the final issue of the journal were as followed: per year for institutions in Latin America, Asia, Eastern Europe and Africa were priced at $9.00, where everywhere else was $29.00. Individual subscriptions were $26.00, and those with an income under $15000 could have a subscription for a rate of $16.00 per year.\n\nThe journal also was non-profit which caused small fluctuations in the price.\n\n\"Evolutionary Theory\" was previously available online, however as of March 2017 is no longer on Van Valen's website.\n\n"}
{"id": "33012192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33012192", "title": "Friederike Sophie Seyler", "text": "Friederike Sophie Seyler\n\nFriederike Sophie Seyler or F.S. Seyler, formerly Friederike Sophie Hensel (1737 or 1738, Dresden – 22 November 1789, Schleswig, née Sparmann; also referred to as \"Sophie Friederike\"), was a German actress, playwright and librettist. Alongside Friederike Caroline Neuber, she was widely considered Germany's greatest actress of the 18th century. Her libretto for the Singspiel \"Oberon\" (originally titled \"Huon and Amanda\") was a major inspiration for Emanuel Schikaneder's libretto for the opera \"The Magic Flute\". She was briefly married to the actor Johann Gottlieb Hensel and then married the famous theatre director Abel Seyler. As an actress, she was known for portraying passionate and tragic characters. She was a member of Konrad Ernst Ackermann's troupe and performed at the Vienna Burgtheater, before joining the Hamburgische Entreprise and the travelling Seyler Theatre Company. Gotthold Ephraim Lessing lauded her as one of Europe's finest actresses in his influential work \"Hamburg Dramaturgy\".\n\nShe wrote several plays, including \"Die Entführung oder die zärtliche Mutter\", which was much acted in the 1770s. She also wrote a libretto for a \"Singspiel\" based on the poem \"Oberon\", titled \"Hüon und Amande\", that became a great success in Hamburg. Her libretto was since re-adapted by Karl Ludwig Giesecke to provide a libretto for Paul Wranitzky, but without crediting her. Wranitzky's version became the first opera performed by Emanuel Schikaneder's troupe at their new theater, that established a tradition within the company of fairy tale operas that was to culminate later in Mozart's and Schikaneder's opera \"The Magic Flute\". \"Oberon\" as written by Sophie Seyler and built upon by Giesecke is similar to \"The Magic Flute\" in its plot and characters, and a number of the singers who participated in Giesecke/Wranitzky's Oberon took similar roles in the later opera. According to Peter Branscombe, \"it has long been recognized that Giesecke, the named author of Wranitzky's libretto, deserves little credit for what is largely a plagiarism,\" concluding that \"Giesecke's \"\"Oberon, König der Elfen\" is hardly more than a mild revision of Seyler's book.\" After the theatrical success of Giesecke's plagiarized version (and also after Seyler's death), Seyler's original was renamed \"Oberon\" and performed under this title.\n\nWhile she was regarded as Germany's most prominent living actress, she also had a reputation for being unusually conceited and difficult to work with. Richard E. Schade describes her as \"a beautiful, if rather solidly built and domineering leading lady.\" According to Phyllis Hartnoll, \"even Lessing, who detested her, had to admit she was a fine actress. In private life she was malicious and intriguing, her character contributing to the downfall of the Hamburg enterprise.\"\n\nShe was born in Dresden as the only child of the doctor Johann Wilhelm Sparmann, and was the granddaughter of court architect Matthäus Daniel Pöppelmann, who built Zwinger. Yet, she came from a broken home and fled from an arranged marriage. She joined the theatre in 1754.\n\nIn 1754, she married actor Johann Gottlieb Hensel, but they divorced already in 1759. In 1772, she married her great love and admirer, the Swiss-born theatre director Abel Seyler, after a long-standing romance. He had been the main backer of the Hamburgische Entreprise and was the founder of the Seyler theatrical company.\n\nHer step son was the banker Ludwig Erdwin Seyler, the head of Berenberg Bank who married into the Berenberg/Gossler banking dynasty. Her step daughter Sophie (Marie Katharina) Seyler (1762–1833) was married to the prominent Sturm und Drang poet Johann Anton Leisewitz.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38204156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38204156", "title": "Gary Botting", "text": "Gary Botting\n\nGary Norman Arthur Botting (born 19 July 1943) is a Canadian legal scholar and criminal defense lawyer as well as a poet, playwright, novelist, and critic of literature and religion, in particular Jehovah's Witnesses. The author of 40 published books, he is one of the country's leading authorities on extradition law.\nHe is said to have had \"more experience in battling the extradition system than any other Canadian lawyer.\"\n\nBotting was born in Oakley House near Royal Air Force Station Abingdon (RAF Abingdon) at Frilford Heath near Oxford, England on 19 July 1943. He was christened in the Church of England Parish Church of St. James the Great in Radley, Berkshire. His father, Pilot Officer Norman Arthur Botting DFC, a Dam Buster with 617 Squadron, was killed in action over Germany on 15 September 1943 when Gary was less than two months old—on his older sister Mavis' second birthday. Following the war, their mother Joan, a teacher, took up residence with Group Captain Leonard Cheshire VC, the father of their younger sister, Elizabeth, at Gumley Hall near Bedford Gardens, Market Harborough, Leicestershire and later she and the children moved with Cheshire to LeCourt, the name of the mansion he had acquired from his aunt in Hampshire. After witnessing the bombing of Nagasaki at the end of World War II, Cheshire, who had been raised high Anglican, began to examine various religions. Joan and he agreed about the nature of God as a person. Joan was baptized as a Jehovah's Witness in September 1948 and expected Cheshire to follow; when he converted to Roman Catholicism later that year instead, she moved with the children back to Radley.\n\nBotting attended the Church of England Primary School in Radley. One day when pedaling back from school he found a large sphinx moth, \"a rare and portentous Death's-Head Hawk (\"Acherontia atropos\")\" at the side of the road. Later, in Cambridge, he began collecting moths in earnest. On Elizabeth's eighth birthday, 8 January 1954, the Botting family arrived in Fort Erie, Ontario as immigrants to Canada.\n\nIn his early teens Botting began to experiment at home with the hybridization of moths, developing his own technique entailing surgical transplantation of female pheromonal scent sacs. Exhibits of his hybrid moths won top honours at the Ontario (Canada) and United States National Science Fairs two years in a row—in 1960 for \"Interesting Variations of the Cynthia Silk Moth\", and in 1961 for \"Intergeneric Hybridization Among Giant Silk Moths\". In particular, he cross-bred the North American Polyphemus moth (then called \"Telea polyphemus\") with Japanese and Indian giant silk moths of the genus \"Antheraea\", pointing out that the Polyphemus moth really belonged to that genus. The Polyphemus moth was subsequently renamed \"Antheraea polyphemus\" to accord with his observations.\n\nIn the summer of 1960 he was sponsored by the American Institute of Biological Sciences on a lecture tour of the US to explicate his experiments. Later that year the US National Academy of Sciences sponsored him on a lecture tour of India. While in India in January 1961, Botting was befriended by J. B. S. Haldane, who decades earlier had applied statistical research to the natural selection of moths. In the 1960s, Haldane's wife, Helen Spurway, was also researching the genetics of giant silk moths of the genus \"Antheraea\". Helen Spurway, J.B.S. and Krishna Dronamraju were present at the Oberoi Grand Hotel in Kolkata when 1960 US National Science Fair winner in botany Susan Brown reminded the Haldanes that she and Botting had a previously scheduled event that would prevent them from accepting an invitation to a banquet proposed by J.B.S. and Helen in their honour and scheduled for that evening. After the two students had left the hotel, Haldane went on his much-publicized hunger strike to protest what he regarded as a \"U.S. insult\". Botting received the US National Pest Control Award when he demonstrated that his experiments had practical applications beyond producing finer silk. In 1964 he experimented with feeding caterpillars juvenile hormones and vitamin B12 to keep Luna moths (\"Actias luna\") and cecropia moths (\"Hyalophora cecropia\") in the larval stage an instar longer than normal, resulting in larger cocoons and larger adult moths.\n\nBotting was raised as a Jehovah's Witness. At age five, with his sister Mavis (then seven), Botting began going from house to house distributing \"The Watchtower\" and \"Awake!\", and the following year gave his first sermon about \"Noah and the Ark\" at the Cambridgeshire Labour Hall in Cambridge, England. Mavis and Gary attended the semi-official Theodena Kingdom Boarding School in Suffolk, run by Rhoda Ford, the sister of Percy Ford, at that time the head of Jehovah's Witnesses in Great Britain. Botting later documented the harsh discipline by caning meted out to him at the hands of Ms. Ford, who had set up the school in defiance of Thorpeness bylaws; he ran away from school, and contracted double pneumonia. As a result of his mother's intervention, the school was shut down, Ms. Ford was disfellowshipped from Jehovah's Witnesses, and her brother demoted. In 1953, Gary's maternal grandmother Lysbeth Turner, unimpressed by her daughter's choice of religion, attempted to expand Gary's religious horizons by introducing him to Gerald Gardner, the principal advocate of \"the old religion\" of Wicca to which she adhered.\n\nBotting's lay preaching continued after his arrival in Canada at age ten. He entered the \"industrial arts\" (rather than \"academic\") stream in high school, majoring in drafting and machine shop. In July 1955, Botting was baptized as a \"dedicated\" Jehovah's Witness at a convention in New York City. In July 1961, Watch Tower vice-president F.W. Franz assigned Botting the task of smuggling \"Watchtowers\" and anti-Francisco Franco tracts into Spain, where Jehovah's Witnesses were banned. From 1961 to 1963, Botting volunteered in Hong Kong as a \"pioneer\" missionary, supporting himself by working as a journalist for the \"South China Morning Post\". Once he returned from Hong Kong, he attended Trent University to study literature and philosophy. In 1965, the \"Peterborough Examiner\" published a full-page editorial on Botting's personal dilemma, \"Evolution and the Bible: Faith in Science or Faith in God a Choice for Man.\" Botting later admitted that his discussions with Haldane in India in 1961 had had a profound effect on his way of looking at the world, although the process of shaking the social imperatives imposed by his religion took decades.\n\nIn 1966, Botting's grandmother visited Canada and once again encouraged him to expand his religious horizons to include \"the old religion\". This time, she focused her attention on Botting's fiancé, Heather Harden, nominally also a Jehovah's Witness, who was receptive to the idea of establishing a Wiccan coven in Canada. In 1969-70, Gary and Heather Botting established Coven Celeste in Peterborough, Ontario, having by that time become \"inactive\" Jehovah's Witnesses.\n\nDisenchanted with organized Christian religion in general and Jehovah's Witnesses in particular, in 1975 Gary and Heather Botting came out of the \"broom closet\", publicly declaring their conversion to Wicca and opening the circle of Coven Celeste to any who were interested. That year, Botting wrote the semi-autobiographical poem sequence \"Monomonster in Hell\", satirizing his experiences as a missionary and the fact that Armageddon had not arrived by October 1975 as Jehovah's Witnesses had predicted. His play \"Whatever Happened to Saint Joanne?\" (1982) depicted the existential struggle and moral dilemma of leaving a fundamentalist sect. Another of his plays first produced by the Department of Drama at the University of Alberta depicted the forming of a covenstead in which the protagonist priestess rejects her fundamentalist background and protects herself and those she loves with charms, spells and rituals. In his most recent novel \"Crazy Gran\", Botting describes the \"Chrislamics\", a hybrid sect that emerges from Islamic and Jehovah's Witness fundamentalism to reassert Levitican and Sharia Law in the name of \"Allajah\". Their prayers for Armageddon seem to be fulfilled with the advent of 9/11.\n\nIn 1984, Gary and Heather Botting co-authored \"The Orwellian World of Jehovah's Witnesses\", an exposé of the inner workings, shifting doctrines, linguistic quirks and \"mental regulating\" of members of the group. It graphically compares the religion's closed social paradigms to the \"Newspeak\" and thought control depicted in Orwell's novel. Critics were generally intrigued by \"The Orwellian World\", Debbie Morgan of the \"United Church Observer\" calling it \"another warning against the way religious doctrine can be created and used to enslave rather than to free.\" The \"Lethbridge Herald\" called it \"jolting and unnerving. Uncanny\"; and Carl Rapkins of the \"New York Tribune\" described it as \"excellent and sophisticated—a rare treat.\" The book sold out its first edition of 5000 copies within weeks of its release.\n\nIn 1990, the Bottings moved to Victoria, British Columbia, and took Coven Celeste with them. Its existence in Alberta had already inspired the establishment of the Aquarian Tabernacle Church in British Columbia, and the Bottings were welcomed as third degree elders into both the Canadian and US branches of ATC. Meanwhile, in 1993, Botting published \"Fundamental Freedoms and Jehovah's Witnesses\", an academic work about Jehovah's Witnesses in Canada and their role in pressing for the development of the \"Canadian Bill of Rights\" and what eventually became the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\".\n\nDespite his advocacy of witchcraft, by 1982 Botting had accepted Darwinian evolution as indisputable fact. At the same time, he thoroughly excoriated the \"Big Bang\" theory, calling it \"an absolute fallacy\". Einstein had been derailed by Hubble's notion that the universe was expanding in all directions at once. The universal red shift, Botting stated, could be better explained by Einstein's 1915 theory of the gravitational red shift, expanded in 1922 and empirically \"proven\" in 1964. Any luminous object in space, whether star or galaxy, is bound to have immense mass, but its light, held back by the gravity of the stellar or gallactic body, is not allowed to escape unaltered. While the speed of light remains constant, its wavelength compensates, shifting towards red. This gives the illusion of an expanding universe, even though in fact the universe is not expanding at all. In 2005, Botting famously stated to a panel of research scientists that belief in the Big Bang was almost as absurd as belief in God. He reconciled his atheism with his advocacy of the pagan path by reference to the sacredness of nature itself as the Earth struggles to rectify the damage caused by humankind, a species so dominated by extraneous traditions of the past that it has lost sight of its destiny as destroyer of the planet. Religion was a form of theatre that could coexist with a godless yet unfathomably immense and miraculous universe. The priests and the clergy in any religion were nothing more than actors following a script, indeed \"scripture\", as interpreted by directors and producers at the top of the hierarchy. Faith in science and faith in religion have equal significance to the human psyche, but neither should be taken for granted and both should be constantly tested without fear of reprisal. The capacity to appreciate both science and religion simultaneously is a dualistic byproduct of human evolution. Ultimately, both science and religion are merely extensions of the human mind calibrated using different dimensions of spacetime, one concrete and the other abstract. Where science crosses the boundary into the abstract, as in quantum physics, it becomes more akin to faith-based religion than to empirical science. Both ultimately demand the suspension of disbelief.\n\nRather than regarding himself as an essentialist like Iris Murdoch or an existentialist like Jean-Paul Sartre, Botting has described himself as an \"extensionist\": all things, including human understanding, can be explained as extensions of mind and body in space and time. Like Richard Dawkins, of whose brand of genetic theory—and unabashed atheism—Botting has been a staunch advocate, he was admittedly influenced by the observations and opinions of J. B. S. Haldane.\n\nIn September 1961, Botting left Canada for Hong Kong initially to become a missionary for Jehovah's Witnesses; but he had to support himself, and soon became first a proofreader and then a full-time reporter for the \"South China Morning Post\". This led to many adventures which he chronicled in his serialized \"Occupational Hazard: The Adventures of a Journalist\". Soon journalism became a priority and he became one of the main feature writers for the \"South China Sunday Post-Herald\". He returned to Canada and in 1964 began to work for the \"Peterborough Examiner\", then owned by Robertson Davies, at the same time attending Trent University, where he was editor of the student newspaper, \"Trent Trends\", and literary magazine, \"Tridentine\". He became fast friends with Farley Mowat and wrote several features about the popular author, describing their shared escapades on \"The Happy Adventure\" (\"The Boat that Wouldn't Float\"), including speculation as to whether sharks had invaded Lake Ontario via the newly opened St. Lawrence Seaway. As an investigative reporter, in 1966 Botting opted to serve time in jail rather than pay parking fines so that he could write an exposé on security and sanitation problems at the notorious Victoria County Jail in Ontario—eventually forcing the prison to close. His later work of popular history, \"Chief Smallboy: In Pursuit of Freedom\", published in 2005 by Fifth House Books, discusses the life of mid-twentieth century Cree leader Bobtail (\"Bob\") Smallboy of the Ermineskin Cree Nation. Laurie Meijer-Drees, writing for \"The Canadian Historical Review\", praised the book for its use of oral history and family history in shedding more light on its subject, but criticized its portrayal of Smallboy as a \"lone leader\" with few peers and in particular its failure to put Smallboy in context with major First Nations political movements of the time such as the Indian Association of Alberta.\n\nCommencing in the 1960s, Botting published poetry in various literary magazines including \"Casserole\", \"Hecate's Loom\", \"Issue\", \"Legal Studies Forum\", \"New Thursday\", \"Tridentine\"—and \"Umwelt\", a Canadian literary magazine which he later satirized in \"BumweltS: Poems Written in Sexy ’69\". His third collection of poems, \"Streaking!\" (1974) helped popularize that fad in Canada. \"Monomonster in Hell\" (1975) —based loosely on Botting's experiences as a missionary in Hong Kong—satirizes the failed prophecy of Jehovah’s Witnesses, who had anticipated that Armageddon would come by October 2, 1975. \"Freckled Blue\" (1976), \"Lady Godiva on a Plaster Horse\" (1977) and \"Lady of My House\" (1986) are collections of love poems which explore different poetic forms from experimental and concrete poetry to more conventional sonnets and ballads. His complete published poems, including a risqué assortment that appeared in a limited edition of \"Isabeau: Poems of Lust and Love\" (2013), were gathered together in \"Streaking! The Collected Poems of Gary Botting\" (2014), edited by screenwriter Tihemme Gagnon.\n\nBeginning as playwright in residence with People & Puppets Incorporated in Edmonton, Alberta in the 1970s, Botting wrote some 30 plays, a dozen of which received awards from the governments of both Canada and Alberta as well as private sponsors such as the \"Edmonton Journal\". He first became active in theatre in the 1960s, when he acted in Academy Theatre and Peterborough Theatre Guild productions in Ontario, Canada. In the late 1960s, he became a theatre and movie critic for the Peterborough Examiner; his essays on and reviews of contemporary Off-Off-Broadway productions were collected in his critique \"The Theatre of Protest in America\".\n\nHis first play, written in St. John’s, Newfoundland in 1969, was \"The School of Night\", later published as the award-winning \"Harriott!\", about the occult club formed in the 1590s by Thomas Harriott, Christopher Marlowe and Sir Walter Raleigh. \"The School of Night\" and \"Who Has Seen the Scroll?\" were first produced in Ontario in 1969–70. \"Prometheus Rebound\", written for the Open Theatre in St. John's, Newfoundland in 1969, was first produced by People & Puppets Incorporated in Edmonton, Alberta in 1971. A sequel to the dramatic poems of Aeschylus and Shelley, Botting's version of the myth portrays Prometheus' punishment for granting man access to nuclear energy.\n\nBotting studied drama, including dramaturgy, in 1971–72 as a minor for his Ph.D. in English Literature, and a decade later received the Master of Fine Arts in playwriting from University of Alberta. Several of his plays were produced by the drama department, including his thesis production, \"Whatever Happened to Saint Joanne?\", exposing the tendency of fundamental Christian ministers to exploit promising members of their sects. \"Edmonton Journal\" theater critic Keith Ashwell called \"Saint Joanne\" an \"incredibly imaginative play\": \"In dramatizing his experiences he has written a very disquieting piece, that becomes positively uncomfortable at the end.\" Botting's most popular award-winning plays were \"Crux\" (1983), about a nude woman who steadfastly refuses to be talked down out of her tree by her materialistic husband; \"Winston Agonistes\" (1984), a sequel to George Orwell’s \"Nineteen Eighty-four\"; and \"Fathers\", first produced in a federal penitentiary by William Head on Stage in Victoria, British Columbia in 1993. Botting continues to write plays for the stage and screen.\n\nBotting wrote his first novel, the semi-autobiographical \"Through Freedom's Curtain\", in Hong Kong in 1962. There, a Canadian journalist in Hong Kong, having entered Mao's China illegally to get a story on the refugee problem, finds himself imprisoned and facing serious charges. \"His eventual escape is a metaphysical flight beyond the conventions of job, security and national pride. He discovers himself, but first must learn to live with the anguish of self-realization.\" His recent novels include \"Campbell's Kids\" (2015), set in Alberta, about an amnesiac pyromaniac who has an affair with a cheating journalist; and \"Crazy Gran\" (2016), set in upstate New York, where in the week after 9/11 the protagonist discovers, to her peril, that her Syrian uncle helped plan the attacks on the World Trade Centre.\n\nBotting graduated with a B.A. from Trent University with a joint major in philosophy and English literature, then obtained his Master of Arts degree in English from Memorial University of Newfoundland and his PhD in English literature and Master of Fine Arts in drama (playwriting) from the University of Alberta in Edmonton. There, he taught English at the University of Alberta and was producer and playwright-in-residence for People & Puppets Incorporated and Edmonton Summer Theatre—precursors to the Edmonton Fringe Festival. Botting's PhD dissertation was on William Golding, author of \"Lord of the Flies\". From 1972 to 1986 Botting taught English and creative writing at Red Deer College, where he was at various times the college's media relations coordinator, chairman of the English department, editor-in-chief of Red Deer College Press, and president of the Faculty Association. He was later remembered by college librarian and fellow thespian Paul Boultbee (who had acted in Botting's plays \"Crux\" (1983) and \"Winston Agonistes\" (1984)) as being a \"creative, \"rebellious\" faculty member.\" Be that as it may, Botting was named \"Citizen of the Year\" by the Central Alberta Allied Arts Council on 5 May 1984.\n\nIn the 1970s, Botting was vice-president of Central Alberta Theatre, sat on the executive of the Literary Presses Group and the Canadian Publishers Association, and was founding president of the Alberta Publishers Association. He taught English and creative writing at Maskwachees Cultural College in Hobbema, establishment of which he had initially proposed in the early 1970s. While first setting up his law practice in Victoria in the early 1990s he taught creative writing and English literature for various colleges and universities, including Lakeland College in Alberta and Simon Fraser University in British Columbia.\n\nBotting entered the University of Calgary Faculty of Law on a Brunet scholarship in 1987. Shortly afterwards he joined the staff of the Institute of Natural Resources Law as a legal researcher. He was elected vice-president of Victims of Law Dilemma (VOLD), an independent watchdog group designed to keep lawyers responsible and to pressure Canadian law societies to appoint lay benchers. As a first-year law student he represented Joel Slater, an American man who became stateless after renouncing US citizenship. When he was in second year, the Law Society of Alberta \"investigated\" Botting for representing Howard Pursley, an alleged white supremacist refugee claimant who was eventually flown directly from Calgary to Texas in a form of disguised extradition later known as extraordinary rendition. Botting was cleared of any wrongdoing. In his third year, Botting was enlisted by Calgary lawyers Don McLeod and Noel O'Brien to assist them with research in connection with the extradition of Charles Ng—who faced the death penalty for allegedly murdering as many as 25 men, women and children in California. That year Botting also represented the first dozen Chinese students in Canada to be granted refugee status after they publicly protested China's 1989 clampdown on demonstrators in Tiananmen Square. After graduating in 1990, Botting articled in Victoria for Doug Christie. Botting pioneered the use of video appearances of witnesses in jury trials before Canadian courtrooms were equipped with video machines, in one instance convincing the judge that she and the jury should move from the courthouse to a nearby hotel in Victoria, B.C. to hear the live evidence of a witness in New Brunswick.\n\nNotable clients whom Botting has represented include Dorothy Grey-Vik, who five decades after the fact successfully sued her parents' former hired hand for repeatedly raping her, beginning when she was a prepubescent school girl, making her his \"sex slave\" for two years and fathering her two children (born when she was twelve and thirteen, respectively)—with her parents' complacency and complicity; Gerald Gervasoni, extradited to Florida to face trial for the murder of his girlfriend, whose body was found stuffed under her mother's bed; Patrick Kelly, an RCMP officer convicted of first degree murder for tossing his wife off a 17th story balcony in Toronto who sued the Correctional Service of Canada for negligence for housing him at Kingston Penitentiary without regard to risk arising from his previous status as a police officer; James Ernest Ponton, charged with second degree murder after shooting his victim twice in the back—who was acquitted by a jury on the basis of Botting's argument of self-defence; Clifford Edwards, for whom Botting sought a moratorium on extradition from the Minister of Justice on the grounds that the Canada-US Extradition Treaty has never been ratified by Parliament; Karlheinz Schreiber, a German-born Canadian entrepreneur who fought extradition from Canada for nearly a decade; friends of Marc Emery, a cannabis policy reform activist who consented to his extradition to the United States; Mark Wilson, who won his 2011 extradition appeal on the basis that the extradition judge had refused to admit important evidence; the family of Dr. Asha Goel, an Ontario obstetrician murdered in her sleep while visiting her brother's house in Mumbai, India—the Canadian component of the investigation having been squelched by the Department of Justice; Emmanuel Alviar, who received a one-month jail sentence for his part in the 2011 Stanley Cup Riot in Vancouver; Sean Doak, who fought extradition to the United States for allegedly leading a drug smuggling ring while incarcerated in a federal penitentiary; Brinder Rai, a Calgary man who sued his grandfather (since deceased) and other relatives for allegedly conspiring to shoot him in the back at close range with a shotgun in an \"honour killing\" attempt; Donald Boutilier, whose successful challenge of the constitutionality of dangerous offender legislation in the British Columbia Supreme Court, since overturned by the B.C. Court of Appeal, is now being appealed to the Supreme Court of Canada; Safa Malakpour, who faces an indeterminate sentence as a dangerous offender for harassing his wife after the harassment escalated to kidnapping and assault; Kevin Patterson, who faces extradition for murder after allegedly killing his mentor with a garden shovel; and Gregory Hiles, charged with attempted murder, against whom the Crown stayed charges for lack of evidence after Botting's cross-examination of several witnesses in the first three days of a scheduled three-week trial demonstrated that each witness had motive and opportunity to commit the crime.\n\nLong a strong advocate of advanced education for practicing lawyers, Botting completed his Master of Laws in 1999 and a second PhD, in law, in 2004 at the University of British Columbia, and went on to publish a number of scholarly works on Canadian and international law. He was recognized as \"Canada's leading legal scholar on extradition law\" by Larry Rousseau, executive vice president of the Public Service Alliance of Canada. His U.S.-published \"Extradition between Canada and the United States\", cited by the Supreme Court of Canada, criticized Canada's level of cooperation with the United States in international criminal matters, arguing that Canada's policy of placing international comity over individual rights had dangerously expanded executive discretion and damaged human rights protections. The book received favourable reviews in the \"Law & Politics Book Review\" and the \"Revue québécoise de droit international\". Another of his works on extradition law, \"Canadian Extradition Law Practice\", which has gone through five editions, contains broader criticisms of Canada's network of extradition treaties, in particular of the erosion of the double criminality requirement. His \"Extradition: Individual Rights vs. International Obligations\", published in Stuttgart, Germany, was released in 2010, and \"Halbury's Laws of Canada: Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance\" the following year. His \"Wrongful Conviction in Canadian Law\" (2010) examines Canadian commissions of inquiry into miscarriage of justice. The book's foreword was written by David Milgaard, who was convicted of a murder he did not commit and spent 23 years in prison. Botting spent four years as a visiting scholar and post-doctoral fellow at University of Washington School of Law in Seattle and another year as research associate at the University of British Columbia – where he is a Paetzold Fellow – before returning to private practice in British Columbia in 2009. In April 2015 he was granted a Trent University Distinguished Alumnus lifetime achievement award for his legal scholarship and literary skills. The citation noted that Botting \"is recognized as one of the most prolific legal scholars in Canada, the 'go to' expert in Canada on extradition, and a writer of immense talent.\" In 2016 and again in 2017 he was invited to join an exclusive Oxford think-tank deliberating on the future of extradition and the European arrest warrant in the wake of Brexit. He proposed \"a single, simple multilateral extradition treaty to replace the European arrest warrant and the thousands of variable, and mostly unworkable, bilateral treaties now in existence.\" He called the proposed treaty the \"Unified Multilateral Extradition Treaty\" or UMET, and stated that half the countries of the world would already qualify to \"sign on\" by virtue of being signatories to current treaty arrangements. \"The other half could sign onto the new UMET in due course, once they met specific minimal standards of justice, including protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.\"\n\nBotting has four children by his first wife, Dr Heather Botting. They were divorced in 1999. In 2011, Botting married Australian-Canadian speech language pathologist Virginia (\"Ginny\") Martin. Now in his seventies, he continues to write novels and practice extradition and appellate law in Vancouver, British Columbia.\n"}
{"id": "37318595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37318595", "title": "Hong Daeyong", "text": "Hong Daeyong\n\nHong Daeyong (; 12 May 1731 – 17 November 1783), styled Damheon (, \"Relaxed house\") was a philosopher, astronomer and mathematician of the late Joseon Kingdom. Hong was an early leader of the \"Profitable Usage and Benefiting the People\" () school of thought. It worked to promote the industrialization of his country and the development of trade by positively introducing Western technologies to Joseon Korea. Hong was a friend of Park Ji-won, who was another leader of the \"Profitable Usage\" school.\n\nHong Daeyong was born in 1731 in Cheonan, South Chungcheong Province. In his early days, Hong was educated by Kim One-hang of Seock-sil Seowon. During this period, traditional Neo-Confucianism formed the basis of his academic world. In 1765, Hong followed his uncle Hong Eock(), who was in Joseon missions to Imperial China. In China, Hong witnessed a brilliant development of Qing Dynasty and experienced culture shock. After returning to Joseon, Hong insisted enhancing the national prosperity.\n\nHong was also interested in astronomy and mathematics. He maintained the rotundity of the Earth and Earth's rotation. Traditional Confucianists regard that the sky is globular and the ground is square so they couldn't understand Hong's idea. Also, He firmly excluded the Anthropocentrism. Hong thought all things in nature are equal.\n\nAfter being failed Imperial examination (a kind of examination for the high civil service) a few times, Hong gave up examination and was absorbed in astronomy research. He wrote \"Catechism of Eusan mountain\"(), which contains the concepts of Earth's rotation and the equality among species and the infinity of outer space. In mathematics, Hong wrote \"Interpretation and Usage of Mathematics\"(). And he wrote \"Travel Essay of Yanjing in 1765 and 1766\"(), a travel journal about his China travel.\n\nIn 1774, Hong was recommended for a mentor of Crown Prince, who afterwards would be King Jeongjo. Hong discussed many topics and themes with crown prince. Although Crown Prince was satisfied with Hong's studies and polymathy, Hong found their difference of views among several topics and the conservatism of Prince. Crown prince demanded Hong to go into government service and be his own staff members, but Hong indicated his refusal in a roundabout way. Hong wrote \"Journal as the Mentor of Crown Prince\"(), which contains their debate contents.\n\nAfter crown prince ascended the throne following the passing of the King Yeongjo, Hong was appointed to local county governor. In there he tried to test his progressive ideas in local society. However, his mother's health condition deteriorated in 1782, so Hong abandoned a service and came back to Seoul. In 1783, mother regained her health, but Hong had a sudden stroke. He wouldn't make it by morning, and breathed his last breath the next day. It was 23 October 1783(Lunisolar calendar) as 17 November 1783(Solar calendar).\n\nHong's works, including \"Catechism of Ui mountain\", \"Interpretation and Usage of Mathematics\", \"Journal as the Mentor of Crown Prince\" were compiled to collection, \"Books of Relaxed House\" (). His practical Confucian ideas were succeeded by Park Ji-won and Park's disciples, but his scientific thought and research were succeeded by nobody.\n\n"}
{"id": "2002370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2002370", "title": "Idempotency of entailment", "text": "Idempotency of entailment\n\nIdempotency of entailment is a property of logical systems that states that one may derive the same consequences from many instances of a hypothesis as from just one. This property can be captured by a structural rule called contraction, and in such systems one may say that entailment is idempotent if and only if contraction is an admissible rule.\n\nRule of Contraction: from\n\nis derived\n\nOr in sequent calculus notation,\n\n"}
{"id": "19193591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19193591", "title": "Jean-Marc Ferry", "text": "Jean-Marc Ferry\n\nJean-Marc Ferry (born 5 May 1946) is a French philosopher who is best known for his book \"Les puissances de l'expérience\" (1991), described by Paul Ricoeur as \"one of the most important works recently published in the field of social and political philosophy\". He has also translated the work of Jürgen Habermas, by whom he was influenced, into French.\n\nAccording to Ferry, the forms of discourse through which identity is constructed are narration, interpretation, argumentation, and reconstruction. P. Smith summarizes Ferry as follows,\n\nHistorical and discursive progress from narration toward reconstruction is associated with increasing reflexivity about identity and the grounds upon which it is established. Narration, in Ferry’s view, consists of ossified traditional myths which define identities in a more or less prescriptive, taken-forgranted way. Interpretation, on the other hand, involves the assimilation of identity to universal categories like law and justice and is exemplified in early Christian and ancient Greek thought. Argumentation opens up claims of identity to rational dialogue as embodied, for example, in the Enlightenment. Reconstruction, the final step toward reflexivity, involves hermeneutic attempts to understand the historical grounds behind the \"good reasons\" offered by others in argumentation. This is in part a logical and ethical consequence of the shift from it to you (acknowledging subjectivity) which emerges with argumentation itself.\n\nFerry also discusses what he considers to be the building of \"postnational identity\" in Europe, a way to think of the European Union as a medium to separate national identity and political identity. The former and the latter are unified in the classical Nation-State, but separated by the process of the building of a new Europe, whose ultimate political identity is not the Nation-State but a \"Political Community\" which, according to Ferry, is not a Federal State nor a State in general but an absolutely other form of political construction. This new construction derives from the experience of World Wars I & II, which, Ferry believes, forced the European people to organize their inter-relationship beyond classical models of sovereignty and warfare.\n\nOn 15 September 2010, Ferry supported the new initiative Spinelli Group in the European Parliament, which was founded to reinvigorate the strive for federalisation of the European Union (EU). Other prominent supporters of the initiative are Jacques Delors, Daniel Cohn-Bendit, Guy Verhofstadt, Andrew Duff, and Elmar Brok.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "568017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=568017", "title": "Johann Jakob Bachofen", "text": "Johann Jakob Bachofen\n\nJohann Jakob Bachofen (22 December 1815 – 25 November 1887) was a Swiss antiquarian, jurist, philologist, and anthropologist, professor for Roman law at the University of Basel from 1841 to 1845.\n\nBachofen is most often connected with his theories surrounding prehistoric matriarchy, or \"Das Mutterrecht\", the title of his seminal 1861 book \"Mother Right: an investigation of the religious and juridical character of matriarchy in the Ancient World.\" Bachofen assembled documentation demonstrating that motherhood is the source of human society, religion, morality, and decorum. He postulated an archaic \"mother-right\" within the context of a primeval Matriarchal religion or \"Urreligion\".\n\nBachofen became an important precursor of 20th-century theories of matriarchy, such as the Old European culture postulated by Marija Gimbutas from the 1950s, and the field of feminist theology and \"Matriarchal Studies\" in 1970s feminism.\n\nBorn into a wealthy Basel family active in the silk industry, Bachofen studied in Basel and in Berlin under August Boeckh, Karl Ferdinand Ranke and Friedrich Carl von Savigny, as well as in Göttingen.\nAfter completing his doctorate in Basel, he studied for another two years in Paris, London and Cambridge.\nHe was called to the Basel chair for Roman law in 1841, but he retired early in 1845, and published most of his works as a private scholar.\nBachofen is buried at the \"Wolfgottesacker\" cemetery in Basel.\n\nBachofen's 1861 \"Das Mutterrecht\" proposed four phases of cultural evolution which absorbed each other:\n\n\nThere was little initial reaction to Bachofen’s theory of cultural evolution, largely because of his impenetrable literary style, but eventually, along with furious criticism, the book inspired several generations of ethnologists, social philosophers, and even writers: Lewis Henry Morgan; Friedrich Engels, who drew on Bachofen for \"The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State\"; Thomas Mann; Jane Ellen Harrison, who was inspired by Bachofen to devote her career to mythology; Walter Benjamin; Erich Fromm; Robert Graves; Rainer Maria Rilke; Joseph Campbell; Otto Gross; Erich Neumann and opponents such as Julius Evola.\n\nFriedrich Engels analysed Bachofen's views as follows:\n\nA selection of Bachofen's writings was translated as \"Myth, Religion and Mother Right\" (1967). A fuller edited English edition in several volumes is being published.\n\nAs has been noted by Joseph Campbell in \"Occidental Mythology\" and others, Bachofen's theories stand in radical opposition to the Aryan origin theories of religion, culture and society, and both Campbell and writers such as Evola have suggested that Bachofen's theories only adequately explain the development of religion among the pre-Aryan cultures of the Mediterranean and the Levant, and possibly Southern Asia, but that a separate, patriarchal development existed among the Aryan tribes which conquered Europe and parts of Asia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1155143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1155143", "title": "John 21", "text": "John 21\n\nJohn 21 is the twenty-first chapter of the Gospel of John in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. It contains an account of the resurrection appearance in Galilee, which the text describes as the third time Jesus had appeared to his disciples. In the course of this chapter, there is a miraculous catch of 153 fish, the confirmation of Peter's love for Jesus, a foretelling of Peter's death in old age, and a comment about the beloved disciple's future. New Testament scholars are largely agreed that it was not part of the original text of the Gospel of John.\n\n\nIn the previous chapter of John's Gospel, the text summarizes the many signs which Jesus performed for his followers, \"not all of which could be recorded in the Gospel\". John 21 begins with the Johannine transition, \"After these things...\" () which is used frequently in the Fourth Gospel, leading some scholars to suggest that John 21 was appended in the same way as Mark 16:9–20. Peter's ecclesiastical role is emphasized, but this is similar to Peter's commissioning in John 1. The Nestle-Aland Novum Testamentum Graece (27th ed.) as well as major translations of the New Testament (e.g. KJV, NASB, NIV, RSV, NRSV) retain this chapter in their editions as original, and just one fragmentary manuscript has been discovered that may end at John 20 without John 21.\n\nOne theory is that the author simply decided to add an additional incident at some time after writing the book, but before final publication. Westcott stated,\nIt is impossible to suppose that it was the original design of the Evangelist to add the incidents of chapter 21 after the verses which form a solemn close of his record of the great history of the conflict of faith and unbelief in the life of Christ.\n\nBut Donald Guthrie writes:\nIt is unlikely that another author wrote this section since there are several points of contact in it with the style and language of previous chapters...(IVP New Bible Commentary)\n\nThe Church Father Tertullian wrote, \"And wherefore does this conclusion of the gospel affirm that these things were written unless it is that you might believe, it says, that Jesus Christ is the son of God?\", which describes the end of Chapter 20, not Chapter 21. However, no existing manuscript of the Gospel omits this chapter.\n\nThe description of the \"beloved disciple's\" (normally assumed to be John) fate is presented as an aside to Peter. Jesus says that it is not Peter's concern, even if Jesus should wish that that disciple remain alive until the end of time. The following verse clarifies that Jesus did not say \"This disciple will not die\", but that it was not for Peter to know.\n\nThe chapter is closed by two verses referring to the author of the gospel (whoever it might be) in the third person (\"We know that his testimony is true\").\n\nIn an essay, contributed on behalf of scholars unconvinced of any decisive sense of \"originality\" to John 21 (published in 2007), Felix Just wrote: \"We (unfortunately!) do not possess any ancient manuscript of John that actually ends at 20:31.\"\nIn other words, ancient manuscripts that contain the end of John 20 also contain text from John 21. So if John 21 is an addition, it was so early (which is not in doubt: part of John 21 appears in P66) and so widespread, that no evidence of the prior form has survived. This should however be balanced against the tendency for the first and last pages of codices to be lost: there are just four papyrus witnesses to John 20–21, only three of which date from the 4th century or earlier.\n\n\"Novum Testamentum Graece\" (NA28) and the United Bible Societies (UBS5) provide the critical text for John 21.\n\nIn 2006 one 4th-century Sahidic papyrus manuscript (Bodleian MS. Copt.e.150(P)) came to light that may end at 20:31. One side of this single-leaf fragment consists of John 20:30–31 with a large space under it, having no subscription.\n\n"}
{"id": "25001594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25001594", "title": "Kagyed", "text": "Kagyed\n\nKagyed or Kagyad is a Buddhist festival held in parts of northern India, particularly Sikkim. The Kagyed dance is performed on the 28th and 29th day of the 10th month of the Tibetan Calendar which usually falls in early December. \n\nThe Kagyed dance symbolizes destruction of the evil forces by burning effigies made of wood, flour, and paper. Practitioners also pray for peace and prosperity for every Sikimmese home. Annually the festival is performed by the monks at the Tsuklakhang Palace two days before Sikkimese new year.The festival is typically associated with the Pang Lhabsol, practised not only at Tsuklakhang Palace but at Ralang Monastery and some other monasteries in Sikkim where earlier celebrations are held in mid September in honor of Mount Khangchendzonga, and then finalized by the Kagyed in early December.\n\nAlthough the dance is very serious in nature, jesters perform in between to provide comic relief.\n"}
{"id": "5118377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5118377", "title": "Kenan Malik", "text": "Kenan Malik\n\nKenan Malik (born 26 January 1960) is an Indian-born British writer, lecturer and broadcaster, trained in neurobiology and the history of science. As an academic author, his focus is on the philosophy of biology, and contemporary theories of multiculturalism, pluralism and race. These topics are core concerns in \"The Meaning of Race\" (1996), \"Man, Beast and Zombie\" (2000) and \"Strange Fruit: Why Both Sides Are Wrong in the Race Debate\" (2008).\n\nHis work contains a forthright defence of the values of the 18th-century Enlightenment, which he sees as having been distorted and misunderstood in more recent political and scientific thought. He was shortlisted for the Orwell Prize in 2010.\n\nMalik was born in Secunderabad, Telangana, India and brought up in Manchester, England. He studied neurobiology at the University of Sussex and History of Science at Imperial College, London. In between, he was a research psychologist at the Centre for Research into Perception and Cognition (CRPC) at the University of Sussex.\n\nHe has given lectures or seminars at a number of universities, including University of Cambridge (Department of Biological Anthropology); University of Oxford (St. Antony's College and the Department for Continuing Education); the Institute of Historical Research, London; Goldsmiths College, University of London (Department of Social Anthropology); University of Liverpool (Department of Politics); Nottingham Trent University; University of Newcastle (Department of Social Policy and Sociology); University of Oslo; and the European University Institute, Florence. In 2003, he was a visiting fellow at the University of Melbourne. He is currently Senior Visiting Fellow at the University of Surrey.\n\nAs well as being a presenter of \"Analysis\" on BBC Radio 4, he has also presented \"Night Waves\", Radio 3's Arts and Ideas magazine. Malik has written and presented a number of TV documentaries, including \"Disunited Kingdom\" (2003), \"Are Muslims Hated?\" (which was shortlisted for the Index on Censorship Freedom of Expression award, in 2005), \"Let 'Em All In\" (2005) and \"Britain's Tribal Tensions\" (2006). 'Strange Fruit' was longlisted for the Royal Society Science Book Prize in 2009.\n\nHe has written for many newspapers and magazines, including \"The Guardian\", \"Financial Times\", \"The Independent\", \"Independent on Sunday\", \"Sunday Times\", \"Sunday Telegraph\", \"New Statesman\", \"The New York Times\", \"Prospect\", \"TLS\", \"The Times Higher Education Supplement\", \"Nature\", \"Rising East\", \"Göteborgs-Posten\", \"Bergens Tidende\" and \"Handelsblatt\". He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.\n\nMalik's main areas of academic interest are philosophy of biology and philosophy of mind, scientific method and epistemology, theories of human nature, science policy, bioethics, political philosophy, the history, philosophy and sociology of race, and the history of ideas.\n\nMalik is a Distinguished Supporter of Humanists UK and a trustee of the free-speech magazine \"Index on Censorship\".\n\nMalik has long campaigned for equal rights, freedom of expression, and a secular society, and in defence of rationalism and humanism in the face of what he has called \"a growing culture of irrationalism, mysticism and misanthropy\".\n\nIn the 1980s, he was associated with a number of Marxist organisations, including the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) and the Revolutionary Communist Party (RCP), and Big Flame. He stood as the RCP's candidate in Birmingham Selly Oak in the general election in 1992, coming last out of six candidates with 84 votes (0.15%). He was also involved with anti-racist campaigns including the Anti-Nazi League and East London Workers Against Racism. He helped organise street patrols in East London to protect Asian families against racist attacks and was a leading member of a number of campaigns against deportations and police brutality including the Newham 7 campaign, the Afia Begum Campaign Against Deportations, and the Colin Roach Campaign.\nMalik has written that the turning point in his relationship with the left came with the Salman Rushdie affair. Much of his political campaigning over the past decade has been in defence of free speech, secularism and scientific rationalism. Malik was one of the first left-wing critics of multiculturalism, has controversially opposed restrictions on hate speech, supported open door policies on immigration, opposed the notion of animal rights in a series of debates with Peter Singer and Richard Ryder, and spoken out in defence of animal experimentation.\n\nMalik wrote for the RCP's magazine \"Living Marxism\", later \"LM\". Although the RCP has since disbanded, Malik has written for later incarnations of \"LM\", and for its online successor, the web magazine \"Spiked\".\n\n\n\"The Meaning of Race\" examines the historical development, and philosophical and political roots, of the idea of race. It also explores the relationship between the idea of race and contemporary theories of multiculturalism and pluralism.\n\nMalik argues that racial discourse and theories of racial difference arose in opposition to the universalist ideas of the Enlightenment, and gained their plausibility from \"the persistence of differences of rank, class and peoples in a society that had accepted the concept of equality.\" (page 70) As the nineteenth century unfolded, the politically dominant classes appropriated science (particularly evolutionary theory) to support the idea of a natural order underlying social and economic inequalities, though nothing about the dynamic of science itself necessitated racial conclusions. Thus, \"the discourse of race did not arise out of the categories of Enlightenment discourse but out of the relationship between Enlightenment thought and the social organisation of capitalism.\" (page 225)\n\nThe idea of race applied initially to class differences within European society, but was later applied to differences between Europeans and others, \"and hence became marked by colour differences.\" (p. 8) In the twentieth century, racial theory was largely discredited by its association with Nazism, and the word \"racism\" entered the political vocabulary as a term of criticism, but the defeat of the Nazis led only to a recasting, not the destruction, of a belief in immutable differences among groups of human beings. This belief has been transferred to contemporary notions of culture.\n\nAs depicted by Malik, twentieth-century anthropological thought mistakenly divided humanity into integrated, holistic cultures that must be understood as static; such cultures must not be tampered with, since the nature of their harmonious functioning requires that they must \"survive intact.\" (page 156). Malik sees this tendency in anthropology as another expression, along with the idea of race, of \"a particularist, relativist, and anti-humanist philosophy\" that has rejected Enlightenment universalism. (page 7) He opposes the \"politics of difference\" – the identification of competing social groups based on shared history and a sense of identity – believing it sets back the struggle for political and economic equality. The final chapters of \"The Meaning of Race\" contain a critique of postmodernist and poststructuralist theories, including the views of Edward Said. Here, Malik argues that such theories misinterpret the relationship between the West and other cultures, and are detrimental to the possibility of social equality. In its essence, Malik argues, postmodernism is defeatist – it is prepared to accept a place for marginalised groups within society without demanding true equality.\n\n\"Man, Beast and Zombie\" investigates the historical roots, philosophical assumptions and alleged methodological problems of contemporary theories of human nature, in particular evolutionary psychology and cognitive science. He argues that, \"The triumph of mechanistic explanations of human nature is as much the consequence of our culture's loss of nerve as it is of scientific advance.\" (pages 13–14) While rejecting epistemic relativism, with its denial of an objective truth about the world, Malik insists that scientific theories of human nature are, in practice, shaped by cultural influences, as well as being responsive to data. He argues that the scientific study of human nature has been distorted by post-war cultural pessimism. In examining evolutionary psychology and related theories, Malik distinguishes between these theories, which he sees as a form of universal Darwinism (attributing explanatory power to Darwinian theory in a wide range of domains), and the work of \"circumspect Darwinists\" (who are cautious about its explanatory power) (197).\n\nThough Malik sees human beings as a product of evolution, and that universal Darwinist theories have merit when applied to non-human animals – and perhaps \"some\" merit when applied to human behaviour – he is sceptical about how far they can be applied to human beings. In particular, theories of a biologically-evolved human nature cannot, alone, account for the transformations of behaviour that arose from our immersion in a symbolic world built up out of language and culturally-meaningful relationships. Thus, \"the scientific tools with which we investigate animal behaviour are inadequate for understanding human behaviour\" (p. 231).\n\nIn discussing cognitive science and philosophy of mind, Malik concludes that each human being possesses \"an \"extended\" mind\"; a brain becomes a human mind only by its immersion in social relationships together with \"other brains linked by language and culture.\" (p. 331) Human meaning derives not from nature but from the language-linked social network of which we are part.\" (p. 334) If we did succeed in creating a machine capable of participating in a human society like a human being, it would be human (334–35).\n\nIn the final chapter of \"Man, Beast and Zombie\", Malik laments what he sees as an increasing reluctance to view individual people as autonomous, rational, and competent agents, and a tendency to view them as damaged, weak, incapable, and possessing limited control over their fates. All this has both encouraged and been reinforced by what Malik sees as mechanistic accounts of human nature. It has been accompanied by a shift of emphasis from negative liberty to positive liberties and paternalistic protections, and by an acceptance of limits to human possibilities and a deference to \"nature\" – all in marked contrast to the spirit of Enlightenment humanism.\n\n\"Strange Fruit: Why Both Sides Are Wrong in the Race Debate\" (Oneworld, 2008) is a book focusing on the anti-enlightenment dichotomy of racial science and anti-racism and critiques both. Malik argues that racial scientists should be allowed to express their views publicly and be critiqued in the public domain, while also criticising censorship from traditional anti-racist organisations. Most of the book focuses on science and race, and whether race can tell us anything about humans – he argues for a third way. He argues that 'race' may be a poor man's clue to many things like genetic disease in populations, but that this does not have anything to do with 'race' in and of itself. He also argues that 'race' may be an obvious indicator of populations of genetics within multi-ethnic countries, but it is not exclusive to 'races' as a whole.\n\nThe book also critiques multicultural paradigms about identity and cultural inheritance. Malik concludes that 'race' is not a biological concept and is useless as a way to separate people and he says that it is not just ignorant racial scientists that perpetuate this myth, it is anti-racists too.\n\n\"From Fatwa to Jihad\" was released to coincide with the 20th anniversary of the Fatwa placed on Rushdie. In his analysis Malik documents the events surrounding the Bradford protests, the fatwa, the riots in India and the government and media response. Malik also explores the life of immigration from the Indian subcontinent to Britain and how that has shaped modern British-Asian identity. He also documents and critiques the rise of state multiculturalism and the long-term effects on cities like Birmingham. Coupled with an analysis of the culture of self-censorship and fear of today's media, the book provides an account of the fatwa's present-day impact.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4358807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4358807", "title": "Kent Bach", "text": "Kent Bach\n\nKent Bach (born 1943) is an American philosopher and Professor of Philosophy at San Francisco State University. His primary areas of research include the philosophy of language, linguistics and epistemology. He is the author of three books: \"Exit-existentialism: A philosophy of self-awareness\", \"Linguistic Communication and Speech Acts\", and \"Thought and Reference\" published by Wadsworth, the MIT Press, and Oxford University Press, respectively.\n\nBach's writings in the philosophy of language have tended to focus on the problems and puzzles that arise from so-called propositional attitude attributions, in particular belief attributions. Such attributions (or \"reports\") take the form \"A believes that p\" where \"A\" is the subject to whom a belief is attributed and \"p\" represents the sentence, proposition (or, more vaguely still, \"content\") that is supposed to be believed by \"A\".\n\nIn \"A Puzzle About Belief Reports\" and \"Do Belief Reports Report Beliefs?\", Bach argues that there is a false assumption underlying all of the traditional forms of explanation of the nature of belief reports: they all implicitly endorse something that he refers to as the \"Specification Assumption\". This is basically the idea that the \"that\"- clauses of belief reports (\"that William will take the train tomorrow\", \"that the sun will rise tomorrow morning\") specify (i.e. directly refer to) propositions (or sentences) that the believer believes. Bach suggests that \"that\"-clauses do not specify but merely \"describe\" or \"characterize\" what a person believes.\n\nHe argues his thesis by first invoking several classic puzzles which have confounded philosophers of language since the time of Frege. The first type of puzzle is a variation on the classic problem of the substitution of co-referential terms in the context of attitude attributions. A simple illustration is the following pair of sentences:\n\n\nThe simple substitution of one co-referring term for another would seem to transform the truth-value (and hence the content) of the sentence from true to false. But this should be impossible if we are faithful to a few simple and reasonable assumptions that are commonly accepted among philosophers: direct reference, semantic compositionality and \"semantic innocence\". Direct reference is the principle that singular terms contribute their referents to the propositions expressed by the sentences which contain them. Compositionality is the ideas that the meaning of a composite expression is derived from the parts which make it up. Semantic innocence is the principle that \"embedding\" a term or name in a \"that\" clause should not change its semantic value.\n\nGiven these basic assumptions how is it possible that the truth value of a sentence in the context of an attribution can change - that is, how is semantic opacity possible? Bach sketches four historical approaches to the resolving the problem and demonstrates each of their inadequacies. The first approach is that of Frege himself. Frege claimed that the reference of a term in the context of a belief report (or any other attitude attribution) was no longer its \"customary\" reference but rather its sense (see sense and reference). While this proposal maintains compositionality, however, it obviously violates the aforementioned principle of semantic innocence. Terms do not have the same reference in attitude attribution contexts that they do in ordinary sentence contexts. Bach illustrates \"why\" this is a problem by providing an example sentence that involves anaphora and that leads to serious problems for the Fregean view:\n\nHere, the pronoun \"he\" is being used, as linguists say, anaphorically: its meaning is derived from the proper name which it is standing in for (in this case, \"Clark Kent\"). It seems clear, then, that the \"he\" used in this sentence refers (and quite directly) to Clark Kent. Frege's theory would predict that it refers to the \"name\" Clark Kent, the \"sense\" of the term in the terminology of Frege. Consequently, Frege's theory \"denies semantic innocence\" and this makes it ring somewhat counterintuitive.\n\nBach next considers what he calls, the \"metalinguistic\" or \"sententialist\" view. On this view, a sentence embedded in a \"that\"-clause refers to some sort of sentence, whether the sentence itself or a sentence in some language of thought depends on the specifics of the theory. However that may be, this view also violates the principle of semantic innocence: the referents of terms change from ordinary contexts (where they are objects in the external world) to attitude report contexts (where they are linguistic items. Hence, it has the same problem as Frege's, as well as several others.\n\nThe so-called \"hidden indexical\" theory maintains that the difference in truth value (and content) between sentences \"1\" and \"2\" above has nothing to do with what they say about \"what\" Lois Lane believes, but with what they implicitly say about \"how\" she believes it. The two sentences do not differ in their contents, the singular proposition expressed by the statement that Superman/Clark Kent is a wimp, but by some implicitly referred to way of taking the proposition. In Bach's view this approach violates the principle of compositionality. There is no syntactical place in the sentence \"A believes that G is F\" for some \"unarticulated constituent\" or \"hidden indexical\". He also points out that sentences such as \"Joe is ready\" and \"Fred has finished\", which are missing an argument, are not necessarily sentences that express propositions with unarticulated constituents. They may simply be semantically incomplete and hence not express propositions at all.\n\nThe last position that Bach considers is the so-called \"neo-Russelian\" theory. Neo-Russelians attempt to solve the problem by rejecting the \"anti-substitution intuition\". They insist that sentences such as \"1\" and \"2\" actually have the same contents and that there is no transformation in truth values at all. Similarly, if \"the Joker realizes that Bruce Wayne is rich\" is true, then it is also true that \"the Joker realizes that Batman is rich\"; if \"the Joker doubts that Bruce Wayne is a threat\" is true, then so is the statement that \"the Joker doubts that Batman is a threat\" and so forth. These consequences make the neo-Rusellian theory seem extremely awkward and counterintuitive.\n\nBach's own, alternative solution is to reject the Specification Assumption discussed at the beginning. \nHe further illustrates the problems associated with this assumption by way of another famous philosophical puzzle: Kripke's \"Paderewski\" puzzle, which does not involve substitution.\n\nKripke's puzzle arises from the fact that Peter takes Paderewski to be two different individuals: one a statesman and the other a pianist. In fact, they are one and the same person. According to Bach's \"descriptivist\" view, sentence \"a\" here \"describes\" Peter as believing something and sentence \"b\" describes him as believing something else. Since the \"that\"-clauses do not specify what the two things are that Peter believes (they do not refer to one specific object), then they are not necessarily the same thing. The condition for the truth of a belief report is that the believer must believe \"something\" such that the proposition expressed by the \"that\" clause turns out to be true.\n\nAttempts have been made to resolve the Paderewski puzzle by suggesting that the \"that\"-clauses involved are not sufficiently specific and that if all contextually relevant information were provided in detail, then we could eventually determine exactly what it is that Peter believes and disbelieves. However, as Bach shows, this leads to an infinite regress. We could add information to the sentences \"a\" and \"b\" which further specifies that \"Peter believes that Paderewski \"the pianist\" has musical talent\" and \"Peter disbelieves that Paderewski \"the statesman\" has musical talent\". But let us suppose that Peter hears a recording of Paderewski playing Mozart and is impressed with the performance. Later, he hears a recording of Paderewski playing Keith Jarret and is disgusted by the performance. Given that we have the same individual Paderewski and that Peter still does not know that it is the same individual in the two cases, we would have to say that \"Peter believes that Paderewski the \"classical pianist\" has musical talent\" and that \"Peter disbelieves that Paderewski the \"jazz pianist\" has musical talent\". This specification might not suffice either. Suppose that Peter now hears Paderewski play Beethoven and is not impressed. We would have to say \"Peter believes that Paderewki \"the classical pianist playing Mozart\"...\".\nAs Bach puts it, \"[that clauses] are not inherently capable of specifying their contents fully\".\n\nIn his paper, \"Content Ex Machina\" Bach argues against over-interpreting what he labels the \"contextualist platitude\" which he defines as: “Generally what a speaker means in uttering a sentence, even if the sentence is devoid of ambiguity, vagueness, or indexicality, goes beyond what the sentence means.” Bach asserts that context does not establish meaning but is merely one of several conversational principles. He states that “context does not determine (in the sense of constitute), but merely enables the hearer to determine (in the sense of ascertain) what the speaker means.” Context provides constraints on what a speaker can reasonably mean and on what a hearer can reasonably interpret a speaker to mean. “contextualist platitude” does not preclude the “older picture of language and communication” and “a fairly standard semantic-pragmatic distinction.” Pragmatic considerations and context do not contribute to the content of what is said. Bach admits that there is meaning in utterances beyond the semantic content of a sentence, but he maintains that context does not determine speaker meaning but rather constrains how a speaker can expect to be understood and helps the hearer understand what is said. “We need the level of locutionary act and, correlatively, a strict, semantic notion of what is said in order to account for (the content of) what a speaker does in uttering a sentence independently of whatever communicative intention (if any) he has in uttering it and regardless of how the content of that intention may depart from the semantic content of the sentence.” \n\nIn his paper, \"A Rationale for Reliabilism,\" Bach weighs in on the debate between internalist and externalist theories of justification by introducing a distinction between justified \"belief\" and justified \"believers.\" According to Bach, “a belief can be justified even in the absence of any action on the part of the believer, as in the case of beliefs formed automatically or routinely without any deliberate consideration;” whereas “a person is justified in believing something to the extent that he holds the belief rationally and responsibly.” On this view, the root of the debate over what constitutes justification between internalists and externalists is that internalists are interested in what makes a believer justified and externalists are concerned with what makes a belief justified.\n\nBach argues that the reasoning method employed by humans is \"default reasoning\", which is to say that when humans reason, many steps in their reasoning are taken by default- i.e. they are “based on some generalization or stereotype which is overridden only if there occurs the thought of an alternative or of a reason to the contrary.” An example of this would be seeing an apple on the table. Bach would argue that, under normal circumstances, the belief “there is an apple on the table” will be formed without reflection on the process by which that belief was formed since the reasoning process of the agent that sees the apple is working under the assumption that seeing something means it is there. Given this, Bach holds that the internalist is expecting too much for a belief to be justified, since expecting reasoning to be evaluated in every step would mean denying justification to the large majority of beliefs since they are formed via default reasoning. Bach therefore holds that if internalism cannot provide a solid argument against the default reasoning model of human cognition, then they must be satisfied in defining what a justified \"believer\" is, leaving the question of justified \"belief\" to the externalist.\n\nBach presents his own theory as to what constitutes justified belief which he calls the “taking-for-granted principle.” This principle holds that:\nit appearing to one that \"p\" justifies directly inferring that \"p\" provided that (a) it does not occur to one that the situation might be out of the ordinary, and (b) it probably would occur to one that the situation might be out of the ordinary.\n\nIn his \"Review of Concepts: Where Cognitive Science Went Wrong\", Bach takes Jerry Fodor to task for his criticisms of lexical semantics and polysemy. Fodor claims that there is no lexical structure to such verbs as \"keep\", \"get\", \"make\" and \"put\". He suggests that, alternatively, \"keep\" simply expresses the concept KEEP (Fodor capitalizes concepts to distinguish them from properties, names or other such entities). If there is a straightforward one-to-one mapping between individual words and concepts, \"keep your clothes on\"*, \"keep your receipt\" and \"keep washing your hands\" will all share the same concept of KEEP under Fodor's theory. This concept presumably locks on to the unique external property of keeping. But, if this is true, then RETAIN must pick out a different property in RETAIN YOUR RECEIPT, since one can't retain one's clothes or retain washing one's hands. Fodor's theory also has a problem explaining how the concept FAST contributes, \"differently\", to the contents of FAST CAR, FAST DRIVER, FAST TRACK, and FAST TIME. Whether or not the differing interpretations of \"fast\" in these sentences are specified in the semantics of English, or are the result of pragmatic inference, is a matter of debate.\n\nWhat makes Fodor's view of concepts extremely difficult to digest for many critics is simply his insistence that such a large, perhaps implausible, number of them are primitive and undefinable. For example, Fodor considers such concepts as BACHELOR, EFFECT, ISLAND, TRAPEZOID, VIXEN, and WEEK to be all primitive, innate and unanalyzable because they all fall into the category of what he calls \"lexical concepts\" (those for which our language has a single word). Against this view, Bach argues that the concept VIXEN is almost certainly composed out of the concepts FEMALE and FOX, BACHELOR out of SINGLE and MALE, and so on.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26410106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26410106", "title": "List of phenomenologists", "text": "List of phenomenologists\n\nThis is a list of phenomenologists\n\n\nBehnke, Elisabeth A., David Carr, J. Claude Evans, José Huertas-Jourda, J. J. Kockelmans, W. Mckenna, Algis Mickunas et al. \"Encyclopedia of phenomenology\". Vol. 18. Springer Science & Business Media, 2013.<br>\nDreyfus, H. L. (1991). \"Being-in-the-world: A commentary on Heidegger's Being and Time\", Division I. MIT Press.<br>\nGallagher, S. (2012). \"Phenomenology\". London: Palgrave Macmillan.<br>\nGallagher, S. and Zahavi, D. (2012). \"The Phenomenological Mind\". London: Routledge.<br>\nGurwitsch, A. (1979). \"Phenomenology and Theory of Science\". Northwestern University Press.<br>\nGurwitsch, A. (1979). \"Studies in phenomenology and psychology\". Northwestern University Press.<br>\nHusserl, E. (1999). \"The Idea of Phenomenology\". Springer.<br>\nHusserl, E. (2012). \"Ideas: General Introduction to Pure Phenomenology\". London: Routledge.<br>\nMerleau-Ponty, M. (1962). \"Phenomenology of Perception\". Trans. C. Smith. London: Routledge.<br>\nSpiegelberg, H. (1965). \"The Phenomenological Movement\" (Vol. 2). The Hague, Netherlands: Martinus Nijhoff.\n"}
{"id": "17741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17741", "title": "Ludwig Wittgenstein", "text": "Ludwig Wittgenstein\n\nLudwig Josef Johann Wittgenstein (; ; 26 April 1889 – 29 April 1951) was an Austrian-British philosopher who worked primarily in logic, the philosophy of mathematics, the philosophy of mind, and the philosophy of language. From 1929 to 1947, Wittgenstein taught at the University of Cambridge. During his lifetime he published just one slim book, the 75-page \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\" (1921), one article, one book review and a children's dictionary. His voluminous manuscripts were edited and published posthumously. \"Philosophical Investigations\" appeared as a book in 1953, and has since come to be recognised as one of the most important works of philosophy in the twentieth century. His teacher, Bertrand Russell, described Wittgenstein as \"the most perfect example I have ever known of genius as traditionally conceived; passionate, profound, intense, and dominating\".\n\nBorn in Vienna into one of Europe's richest families, he inherited a fortune from his father in 1913. He initially made some donations to artists and writers and then, in a period of severe personal depression after the First World War, he gave away his entire fortune to his brothers and sisters. Three of his brothers committed suicide, with Wittgenstein contemplating it too. He left academia several times—serving as an officer on the front line during World War I, where he was decorated a number of times for his courage; teaching in schools in remote Austrian villages where he encountered controversy for hitting children when they made mistakes in mathematics; and working as a hospital porter during World War II in London where he told patients not to take the drugs they were prescribed while largely managing to keep secret the fact that he was one of the world's most famous philosophers. He described philosophy as \"the only work that gives me real satisfaction\".\n\nHis philosophy is often divided into an early period, exemplified by the \"Tractatus\", and a later period, articulated in the \"Philosophical Investigations\". The early Wittgenstein was concerned with the logical relationship between propositions and the world and believed that by providing an account of the logic underlying this relationship, he had solved all philosophical problems. The later Wittgenstein rejected many of the assumptions of the \"Tractatus\", arguing that the meaning of words is best understood as their use within a given language-game.\n\nA survey among American university and college teachers ranked the \"Investigations\" as the most important book of 20th-century philosophy, standing out as \"the one crossover masterpiece in twentieth-century philosophy, appealing across diverse specializations and philosophical orientations.\" The \"Investigations\" also ranked 54th on a list of most influential twentieth-century works in cognitive science prepared by the University of Minnesota's Center for Cognitive Sciences. However, in the words of his friend Georg Henrik von Wright, he believed \"his ideas were generally misunderstood and distorted even by those who professed to be his disciples. He doubted he would be better understood in the future. He once said he felt as though he was writing for people who would think in a different way, breathe a different air of life, from that of present-day men.\"\n\nAccording to a family tree prepared in Jerusalem after World War II, Wittgenstein's paternal great-great-grandfather was Moses Meier, a Jewish land agent who lived with his wife, Brendel Simon, in Bad Laasphe in the Principality of Wittgenstein, Westphalia. In July 1808, Napoleon issued a decree that everyone, including Jews, must adopt an inheritable family surname, and so Meier's son, also Moses, took the name of his employers, the Sayn-Wittgensteins, and became Moses Meier Wittgenstein. His son, Hermann Christian Wittgenstein—who took the middle name \"Christian\" to distance himself from his Jewish background—married Fanny Figdor, also Jewish, who converted to Protestantism just before they married, and the couple founded a successful business trading in wool in Leipzig. Ludwig's grandmother Fanny was a first cousin of the famous violinist Joseph Joachim.\n\nThey had 11 children—among them Wittgenstein's father. Karl Otto Clemens Wittgenstein (1847–1913) became an industrial tycoon, and by the late 1880s was one of the richest men in Europe, with an effective monopoly on Austria's steel cartel. Thanks to Karl, the Wittgensteins became the second wealthiest family in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, only behind the Rothschilds. Karl Wittgenstein was viewed as the Austrian equivalent of Andrew Carnegie, with whom he was friends, and was one of the wealthiest men in the world by the 1890s. As a result of his decision in 1898 to invest substantially in the Netherlands and in Switzerland as well as overseas, particularly in the US, the family was to an extent shielded from the hyperinflation that hit Austria in 1922. However, their wealth diminished due to post-1918 hyperinflation and subsequently during the Great Depression, although even as late as 1938 they owned 13 mansions in Vienna alone.\n\nWittgenstein's mother was Leopoldine Maria Josefa Kalmus, known among friends as Poldi. Her father was a Bohemian Jew and her mother was Austrian-Slovene Catholic—she was Wittgenstein's only non-Jewish grandparent. She was an aunt of the Nobel Prize laureate Friedrich Hayek on her maternal side. Wittgenstein was born at 8:30 pm on 26 April 1889 in the so-called \"Wittgenstein Palace\" at Alleegasse 16, now the Argentinierstrasse, near the Karlskirche. Karl and Poldi had nine children in all. There were four girls: Hermine, Margaret (Gretl), Helene, and a fourth daughter Dora who died as a baby; and five boys: Johannes (Hans), Kurt, Rudolf (Rudi), Paul—who became a concert pianist despite losing an arm in World War I—and Ludwig, who was the youngest of the family.\n\nThe children were baptized as Catholics, received formal Catholic instruction, and were raised in an exceptionally intense environment. The family was at the center of Vienna's cultural life; Bruno Walter described the life at the Wittgensteins' palace as an \"all-pervading atmosphere of humanity and culture.\" Karl was a leading patron of the arts, commissioning works by Auguste Rodin and financing the city's exhibition hall and art gallery, the Secession Building. Gustav Klimt painted Wittgenstein's sister for her wedding portrait, and Johannes Brahms and Gustav Mahler gave regular concerts in the family's numerous music rooms.\n\nFor Wittgenstein, who highly valued precision and discipline, contemporary music was never considered acceptable at all. \"Music,\" he said to his friend Drury in 1930, \"came to a full stop with Brahms; and even in Brahms I can begin to hear the noise of machinery.\" Ludwig Wittgenstein himself had absolute pitch, and his devotion to music remained vitally important to him throughout his life: he made frequent use of musical examples and metaphors in his philosophical writings, and was unusually adept at whistling lengthy and detailed musical passages. He also learnt to play the clarinet in his thirties. A fragment of music (three bars), composed by Wittgenstein, was discovered in one of his 1931 notebooks, by Michael Nedo, Director of the Wittgenstein Institute in Cambridge.\n\nRay Monk writes that Karl's aim was to turn his sons into captains of industry; they were not sent to school lest they acquire bad habits, but were educated at home to prepare them for work in Karl's industrial empire. Three of the five brothers would later commit suicide. Psychiatrist Michael Fitzgerald argues that Karl was a harsh perfectionist who lacked empathy, and that Wittgenstein's mother was anxious and insecure, unable to stand up to her husband. Johannes Brahms said of the family, whom he visited regularly: \"They seemed to act towards one another as if they were at court.\" The family appeared to have a strong streak of depression running through it. Anthony Gottlieb tells a story about Paul practicing on one of the pianos in the Wittgensteins' main family mansion, when he suddenly shouted at Ludwig in the next room: \"I cannot play when you are in the house, as I feel your scepticism seeping towards me from under the door!\"\n\nThe family Palace housed seven grand pianos and each of the siblings pursued music \"with an enthusiasm that, at times, bordered on the pathological.\" The eldest brother, Hans, was hailed as a musical prodigy. At the age of four, writes Alexander Waugh, Hans could identify the Doppler effect in a passing siren as a quarter-tone drop in pitch, and at five started crying \"Wrong! Wrong!\" when two brass bands in a carnival played the same tune in different keys. But he died in mysterious circumstances in May 1902, when he ran away to America and disappeared from a boat in Chesapeake Bay, most likely having committed suicide.\n\nTwo years later, aged 22 and studying chemistry at the Berlin Academy, the third eldest brother, Rudi, committed suicide in a Berlin bar. He had asked the pianist to play Thomas Koschat's \"Verlassen, verlassen, verlassen bin ich\" (\"Forsaken, forsaken, forsaken am I\"), before mixing himself a drink of milk and potassium cyanide. He had left several suicide notes, one to his parents that said he was grieving over the death of a friend, and another that referred to his \"perverted disposition\". It was reported at the time that he had sought advice from the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee, an organization that was campaigning against Paragraph 175 of the German Criminal Code, which prohibited homosexual sex. His father forbade the family from ever mentioning his name again.\n\nThe second eldest brother, Kurt, an officer and company director, shot himself on 27 October 1918 at the end of World War I, when the Austrian troops he was commanding refused to obey his orders and deserted \"en masse\". According to Gottlieb, Hermine had said Kurt seemed to carry \"...the germ of disgust for life within himself.\" Later Wittgenstein wrote: \"I ought to have... become a star in the sky. Instead of which I have remained stuck on earth.\"\n\nWittgenstein was taught by private tutors at home until he was fourteen years old. Subsequently, for three years, he attended a school. After the deaths of Hans and Rudi, Karl relented, and allowed Paul and Ludwig to be sent to school. Waugh writes that it was too late for Wittgenstein to pass his exams for the more academic Gymnasium in Wiener Neustadt; having had no formal schooling, he failed his entrance exam and only barely managed after extra tutoring to pass the exam for the more technically oriented k.u.k. Realschule in Linz, a small state school with 300 pupils. In 1903, when he was 14, he began his three years of formal schooling there, lodging nearby in term time with the family of Dr. Josef Strigl, a teacher at the local gymnasium, the family giving him the nickname Luki.\n\nOn starting at the Realschule, Wittgenstein had been moved forward a year. Historian Brigitte Hamann writes that he stood out from the other boys: he spoke an unusually pure form of High German with a stutter, dressed elegantly, and was sensitive and unsociable. Monk writes that the other boys made fun of him, singing after him: \"Wittgenstein wandelt wehmütig widriger Winde wegen Wienwärts\" (\"Wittgenstein strolls wistfully Vienna-wards due to adverse winds\"). In his leaving certificate, he received a top mark (5) in religious studies; a 2 for conduct and English, 3 for French, geography, history, mathematics and physics, and 4 for German, chemistry, geometry and freehand drawing. He had particular difficulty with spelling and failed his written German exam because of it. He wrote in 1931: \"My bad spelling in youth, up to the age of about 18 or 19, is connected with the whole of the rest of my character (my weakness in study).\"\n\nWittgenstein was baptized as an infant by a Catholic priest and received formal instruction in Catholic doctrine as a child, as was common at the time. In an interview, his sister Gretl Stonborough-Wittgenstein says that their grandfather's \"strong, severe, partly ascetic Christianity\" was a strong influence on all the Wittgenstein children. It was while he was at the \"Realschule\" that he decided he had lost his faith in God and became an atheist. He nevertheless believed in the importance of the idea of confession. He wrote in his diaries about having made a major confession to his oldest sister, Hermine, while he was at the \"Realschule\"; Monk speculates that it may have been about his loss of faith. He also discussed it with Gretl, his other sister, who directed him to Arthur Schopenhauer's \"The World as Will and Representation\". As a teenager, Wittgenstein adopted Schopenhauer's epistemological idealism. However, after his study of the philosophy of mathematics, he abandoned epistemological idealism for Gottlob Frege's conceptual realism. In later years, Wittgenstein was highly dismissive of Schopenhauer, describing him as an ultimately \"shallow\" thinker: \"Schopenhauer has quite a crude mind ... where real depth starts, his comes to an end.\"\n\nWittgenstein's religious faith and his relationship with Christianity and religion, in general (for which he professed a sincere and devoted reverence) would change over time, much like his philosophical ideas. In 1912, Wittgenstein wrote to Russell saying that Mozart and Beethoven were the actual sons of God. However, Wittgenstein resisted formal religion, saying it was hard for him to \"bend the knee\", though his grandfather's beliefs continued to influence Wittgenstein—as he famously said, \"I cannot help seeing every problem from a religious point of view\". Wittgenstein referred to Augustine of Hippo in his \"Philosophical Investigations.\" Philosophically, Wittgenstein's thought shows fundamental alignment with religious discourse. For example, Wittgenstein would become one of the century's fiercest critics of Scientism.\n\nWith age, a deepening personal spirituality led to several elucidations and clarifications, as he untangled language problems in religion, attacking, for example, the temptation to think of God's existence as a matter of scientific evidence. In 1947, finding it more difficult to work, he wrote, \"I have had a letter from an old friend in Austria, a priest. In it he says that he hopes my work will go well, if it should be God's will. Now that is all I want: if it should be God's will.\" In Wittgenstein's \"Culture and Value\", he writes, \"Is what I am doing [my work in philosophy] really worth the effort? Yes, but only if a light shines on it from above.\" His close friend Norman Malcolm would write, \"Wittgenstein’s mature life was strongly marked by religious thought and feeling. I am inclined to think that he was more deeply religious than are many people who correctly regard themselves as religious believers.\" At last, Wittgenstein writes, \"Bach wrote on the title page of his \"Orgelbüchlein\", ‘To the glory of the most high God, and that my neighbour may be benefited thereby.’ That is what I would have liked to say about my work.\"\n\nWhile a student at the \"Realschule\", Wittgenstein was influenced by Austrian philosopher Otto Weininger's 1903 book \"Geschlecht und Charakter\" (\"Sex and Character\").\nWeininger (1880–1903), who was also Jewish, argued that the concepts male and female exist only as Platonic forms, and that Jews tend to embody the platonic femininity. Whereas men are basically rational, women operate only at the level of their emotions and sexual organs. Jews, Weininger argued, are similar, saturated with femininity, with no sense of right and wrong, and no soul. Weininger argues that man must choose between his masculine and feminine sides, consciousness and unconsciousness, Platonic love and sexuality. Love and sexual desire stand in contradiction, and love between a woman and a man is therefore doomed to misery or immorality. The only life worth living is the spiritual one—to live as a woman or a Jew means one has no right to live at all; the choice is genius or death. Weininger committed suicide, shooting himself in 1903, shortly after publishing the book. Many years later, as a professor at Cambridge, Wittgenstein distributed copies of Weininger's book to his bemused academic colleagues. He said that Weininger's arguments were wrong, but that it was the way they were wrong that was interesting. In a letter dated 23 August 1931, Wittgenstein wrote the following to G. E. Moore;Dear Moore,Thanks for your letter. I can quite imagine that you don’t admire Weininger very much, what with that beastly translation and the fact that W. must feel very foreign to you. It is true that he is fantastic but he is great and fantastic. It isn’t necessary or rather not possible to agree with him but the greatness lies in that with which we disagree. It is his enormous mistake which is great. I.e. roughly speaking if you just add a “∼” to the whole book it says an important truth.In an unusual move, Wittgenstein took out a copy of Weininger's work on 1 June 1931 from the Special Order Books in the university library. He met Moore on 2 June where he probably gave Moore the copy of Weininger's work.\n\nThere is much debate about the extent to which Wittgenstein and his siblings, who were of 3/4 Jewish descent, saw themselves as Jews. The issue has arisen in particular regarding Wittgenstein's schooldays, because Adolf Hitler was, for a while, at the same school at the same time. Laurence Goldstein argues it is \"overwhelmingly probable\" the boys met each other: that Hitler would have disliked Wittgenstein, a \"stammering, precocious, precious, aristocratic upstart ...\" Other commentators have dismissed as irresponsible and uninformed any suggestion that Wittgenstein's wealth and unusual personality may have fed Hitler's antisemitism, in part because there is no indication that Hitler would have seen Wittgenstein as Jewish.\n\nWittgenstein and Hitler were born just six days apart, though Hitler had to re-sit his mathematics exam before being allowed into a higher class, while Wittgenstein was moved forward by one, so they ended up two grades apart at the \"Realschule\". Monk estimates they were both at the school during the 1904–1905 school year, but says there is no evidence they had anything to do with each other. Several commentators have argued that a school photograph of Hitler may show Wittgenstein in the lower left corner, but Hamann says the photograph stems from 1900 or 1901, before Wittgenstein's time.\n\nIn his own writings Wittgenstein frequently referred to himself as Jewish, at times as part of an apparent self-flagellation. For example, while berating himself for being a \"reproductive\" as opposed to \"productive\" thinker, he attributed this to his own Jewish sense of identity, writing: \"The saint is the only Jewish genius. Even the greatest Jewish thinker is no more than talented. (Myself for instance).\" While Wittgenstein would later claim that \"[m]y thoughts are 100% Hebraic,\" as Hans Sluga has argued, if so, \"His was a self-doubting Judaism, which had always the possibility of collapsing into a destructive self-hatred (as it did in Weininger's case) but which also held an immense promise of innovation and genius.\"\n\nHe began his studies in mechanical engineering at the Technische Hochschule in Charlottenburg, Berlin, on 23 October 1906, lodging with the family of professor Dr. Jolles. He attended for three semesters, and was awarded a diploma (\"Abgangzeugnis\") on 5 May 1908.\n\nDuring his time at the Institute, Wittgenstein developed an interest in aeronautics. He arrived at the Victoria University of Manchester in the spring of 1908 to study for a doctorate, full of plans for aeronautical projects, including designing and flying his own plane. He conducted research into the behavior of kites in the upper atmosphere, experimenting at a meteorological observation site near Glossop. Specifically, the Royal Meteorological Society researched and investigated the ionization of the upper atmosphere, by suspending instruments on balloons or kites. At Glossop Wittgenstein worked under Professor of Physics Sir Arthur Schuster.\n\nHe also worked on the design of a propeller with small jet engines on the end of its blades, something he patented in 1911, and which earned him a research studentship from the university in the autumn of 1908. At the time, contemporary propeller designs were not advanced enough to actually put Wittgenstein’s ideas into practice, and it would be years before a blade design that could support Wittgenstein’s innovative design was created. Wittgenstein’s design required air and gas to be forced along the propeller arms to combustion chambers on the end of each blade, where it was then compressed by the centrifugal force exerted by the revolving arms and ignited. Propellers of the time were typically wood, whereas modern blades are made from pressed steel laminates as separate halves, which are then welded together. This gives the blade a hollow interior, and therefore creates an ideal pathway for the air and gas.\nWork on the jet-powered propeller proved frustrating for Wittgenstein, who had very little experience working with machinery. Jim Bamber, a British engineer who was his friend and classmate at the time, reported that “when things went wrong, which often occurred, he would throw his arms around, stomp about, and swear volubly in German.” According to William Eccles, another friend from that period, Wittgenstein then turned to more theoretical work, focusing on the design of the propeller — a problem that required relatively sophisticated mathematics.\n\nIt was at this time that he became interested in the foundations of mathematics, particularly after reading Bertrand Russell's \"The Principles of Mathematics\" (1903), and Gottlob Frege's \"The Foundations of Arithmetic\", vol. 1 (1893) and vol. 2 (1903). Wittgenstein's sister Hermine said he became obsessed with mathematics as a result, and was anyway losing interest in aeronautics. He decided instead that he needed to study logic and the foundations of mathematics, describing himself as in a \"constant, indescribable, almost pathological state of agitation.\" In the summer of 1911 he visited Frege at the University of Jena to show him some philosophy of mathematics and logic he had written, and to ask whether it was worth pursuing. He wrote: \"I was shown into Frege's study. Frege was a small, neat man with a pointed beard who bounced around the room as he talked. He absolutely wiped the floor with me, and I felt very depressed; but at the end he said 'You must come again', so I cheered up. I had several discussions with him after that. Frege would never talk about anything but logic and mathematics, if I started on some other subject, he would say something polite and then plunge back into logic and mathematics.\"\n\nWittgenstein wanted to study with Frege, but Frege suggested he attend the University of Cambridge to study under Russell, so on 18 October 1911 Wittgenstein arrived unannounced at Russell's rooms in Trinity College. Russell was having tea with C. K. Ogden, when, according to Russell, \"an unknown German appeared, speaking very little English but refusing to speak German. He turned out to be a man who had learned engineering at Charlottenburg, but during this course had acquired, by himself, a passion for the philosophy of mathematics & has now come to Cambridge on purpose to hear me.\" He was soon not only attending Russell's lectures, but dominating them. The lectures were poorly attended and Russell often found himself lecturing only to C. D. Broad, E. H. Neville, and H. T. J. Norton. Wittgenstein started following him after lectures back to his rooms to discuss more philosophy, until it was time for the evening meal in Hall. Russell grew irritated; he wrote to his lover Lady Ottoline Morrell: \"My German friend threatens to be an infliction.\"\nRussell soon came to believe that Wittgenstein was a genius, especially after he had examined Wittgenstein's written work. He wrote in November 1911 that he had at first thought Wittgenstein might be a crank, but soon decided he was a genius: \"Some of his early views made the decision difficult. He maintained, for example, at one time that all existential propositions are meaningless. This was in a lecture room, and I invited him to consider the proposition: 'There is no hippopotamus in this room at present.' When he refused to believe this, I looked under all the desks without finding one; but he remained unconvinced.\" Three months after Wittgenstein's arrival Russell told Morrell: \"I love him & feel he will solve the problems I am too old to solve ... He is \"the\" young man one hopes for.\" Wittgenstein later told David Pinsent that Russell’s encouragement had proven his salvation, and had ended nine years of loneliness and suffering, during which he had continually thought of suicide. In encouraging him to pursue philosophy and in justifying his inclination to abandon engineering, Russell had, quite literally, saved Wittgenstein’s life. The role-reversal between Bertrand Russell and Wittgenstein was soon such that Russell wrote in 1916, after Wittgenstein had criticized Russell's own work: \"His [Wittenstein]'s criticism, tho' I don't think you realized it at the time, was an event of first-rate importance in my life, and affected everything I have done since. I saw that he was right, and I saw that I could not hope ever again to do fundamental work in philosophy.\"\n\nIn 1912 Wittgenstein joined the Cambridge Moral Sciences Club, an influential discussion group for philosophy dons and students, delivering his first paper there on 29 November that year, a four-minute talk defining philosophy as \"all those primitive propositions which are assumed as true without proof by the various sciences.\" He dominated the society and for a time would stop attending in the early 1930s after complaints that he gave no one else a chance to speak.\n\nThe club became infamous within popular philosophy because of a meeting on 25 October 1946 at Richard Braithwaite's rooms in King's, where Karl Popper, another Viennese philosopher, had been invited as the guest speaker. Popper's paper was \"Are there philosophical problems?\", in which he struck up a position against Wittgenstein's, contending that problems in philosophy are real, not just linguistic puzzles as Wittgenstein argued. Accounts vary as to what happened next, but Wittgenstein apparently started waving a hot poker, demanding that Popper give him an example of a moral rule. Popper offered one—\"Not to threaten visiting speakers with pokers\"—at which point Russell told Wittgenstein he had misunderstood and Wittgenstein left. Popper maintained that Wittgenstein 'stormed out', but it had become accepted practice for him to leave early (because of his aforementioned ability to dominate discussion). It was the only time the philosophers, three of the most eminent in the world, were ever in the same room together. The minutes record that the meeting was \"charged to an unusual degree with a spirit of controversy.\"\n\nJohn Maynard Keynes also invited him to join the Cambridge Apostles, an elite secret society formed in 1820, which both Russell and G. E. Moore had joined as students, but Wittgenstein did not enjoy it and attended infrequently. Russell had been worried that Wittgenstein would not appreciate the group's unseriousness, style of humour, or the fact that the members were in love with one another. He was admitted in 1912 but resigned almost immediately because he could not tolerate the level of discussion; they took him back though in the 1920s when he returned to Cambridge. (He also had trouble tolerating the discussions in the Moral Sciences Club.) \n\nWittgenstein was quite vocal about his depression in his years at Cambridge, and before he went to war; on many an occasion, he told Russell of his woes. His mental anguish seemed to stem from two sources: his work, and his personal life. Wittgenstein made numerous remarks to Russell about logic driving him mad. Wittgenstein also stated to Russell that he \"felt the curse of those who have half a talent\". He later expresses this same worry, and tells of being in mediocre spirits due to his lack of progress in his logical work. Monk writes that Wittgenstein lived and breathed logic, and a temporary lack of inspiration plunged him into despair. Unless he was lying, Wittgenstein tells of his work in logic affecting his mental status in a very extreme way. However, he also tells Russell another story. Around Christmas, in 1913, he writes: \"how can I be a logician before I'm a human being? For the most important thing is coming to terms with myself!\" He also tells Russell on an occasion in Russell’s rooms that he was worried about logic and his sins; also, once upon arrival to Russell's rooms one night Wittgenstein announced to Russell that he would kill himself once he left. Of things Wittgenstein personally told Russell, Ludwig’s temperament was also recorded in the diary of David Pinsent. Pinsent writes \"I have to be frightfully careful and tolerant when he gets these sulky fits\", and \"I am afraid he is in an even more sensitive neurotic state just now than usual\", when talking about Wittgenstein's emotional fluctuations.\n\nWittgenstein had romantic relations with both men and women. He is generally believed to have fallen in love with at least three men, and had a relationship with the latter two: David Hume Pinsent in 1912, Francis Skinner in 1930, and Ben Richards in the late 1940s. He later revealed that, as a teenager in Vienna, he had had an affair with a woman. Additionally, in the 1920s Wittgenstein fell in love with a young Swiss woman, Marguerite Respinger, modelling a sculpture of her and proposing marriage, albeit on condition that they would not have children.\n\nWittgenstein's relationship with David Pinsent (1891–1918) occurred during an intellectually formative period, and is well documented. Bertrand Russell introduced Wittgenstein to Pinsent in the summer of 1912. A mathematics undergraduate and descendant of David Hume, Pinsent soon became Wittgenstein's closest friend. The men worked together on experiments in the psychology laboratory about the role of rhythm in the appreciation of music, and Wittgenstein delivered a paper on the subject to the British Psychological Association in Cambridge in 1912. They also travelled together, including to Iceland in September 1912—the expenses paid by Wittgenstein, including first class travel, the hiring of a private train, and new clothes and spending money for Pinsent. In addition to Iceland, Wittgenstein and Pinsent traveled to Norway in 1913. Upon determining their destination, Wittgenstein and Pinsent visited a tourist office in search for a location that would fulfill the following criteria – small village located on a Fjord, a location away from tourists, and a peaceful destination to allow them to study logic and law. Suggesting Øystese, Wittgenstein and Pinsent arrived in the small village on 4 September 1913. With their vacation lasting almost three weeks, Wittgenstein was able to work vigorously on his studies. The immense progress on logic during their stay led Wittgenstein to express to Pinsent his idea to leave Cambridge and return to Norway to continue his work on logic. Pinsent's diaries provide valuable insights into Wittgenstein's personality – sensitive, nervous and attuned to the tiniest slight or change in mood from Pinsent. Pinsent also writes of Wittgenstein being \"absolutely sulky and snappish\" at times, as well. In his diaries Pinsent wrote about shopping for furniture with Wittgenstein in Cambridge when the latter was given rooms in Trinity; most of what they found in the stores was not minimalist enough for Wittgenstein's aesthetics: \"I went and helped him interview a lot of furniture at various shops ... It was rather amusing: he is terribly fastidious and we led the shopman a frightful dance, Vittgenstein [sic] ejaculating \"No—Beastly!\" to 90 percent of what he shewed [archaic spelling] us!\"\n\nHe wrote in May 1912 that Wittgenstein had just begun to study the history of philosophy: \"He expresses the most naive surprise that all the philosophers he once worshipped in ignorance are after all stupid and dishonest and make disgusting mistakes!\" The last time they saw each other was on 8 October 1913 at Lordswood House in Birmingham, then residence of the Pinsent family: \"I got up at 6.15 to see Ludwig off. He had to go very early – back to Cambridge – as he has lots to do there. I saw him off from the house in a taxi at 7.0 – to catch a 7.30 am train from New St Station. It was sad parting from him.\" Wittgenstein left to live in Norway.\n\nKarl Wittgenstein died on 20 January 1913, and after receiving his inheritance Wittgenstein became one of the wealthiest men in Europe. He donated some of his money, at first anonymously, to Austrian artists and writers, including Rainer Maria Rilke and Georg Trakl. Trakl requested to meet his benefactor but in 1914 when Wittgenstein went to visit, Trakl had already killed himself. Wittgenstein came to feel that he could not get to the heart of his most fundamental questions while surrounded by other academics, and so in 1913 he retreated to the village of Skjolden in Norway, where he rented the second floor of a house for the winter. He later saw this as one of the most productive periods of his life, writing \"Logik\" (\"Notes on Logic\"), the predecessor of much of the \"Tractatus\". While in Norway, Wittgenstein learned Norwegian to converse with the local villagers, and Danish to read the works of the Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard.\n\nIt was during this time that Wittgenstein began addressing what he considered to be a central issue in \"Notes on Logic\", a general decision procedure for determining the truth value of logical propositions which would stem from a single primitive proposition. He became convinced during this time that “[a]ll the propositions of logic are generalizations of tautologies and all generalizations of tautologies are generalizations of logic. There are no other logical propositions.” Based on this, Wittgenstein argued that propositions of logic express their truth or falsehood in the sign itself, and one need not know anything about the constituent parts of the proposition to determine it true or false. Rather, one simply need identify the statement as a tautology (true), a contradiction (false), or neither.\n\nThe problem lay in forming a primitive proposition which encompassed this and would act as the basis for all of logic. As he stated in correspondence with Russell in late 1913, “The big question now is, how must a system of signs be constituted in order to make every tautology recognizable as such IN ONE AND THE SAME WAY? This is the fundamental problem of logic!” The importance Wittgenstein placed upon this fundamental problem was so great that he believed if he did not solve it, he had no reason or right to live. Despite this apparent life-or-death importance, Wittgenstein had given up on this primitive proposition by the time of the writing of the \"Tractatus\". The \"Tractatus\" does not offer any general process for identifying propositions as tautologies; in a simpler manner, “Every tautology itself shows that it is a tautology.” This shift to understanding tautologies through mere identification or recognition occurred in 1914 when Moore was called on by Wittgenstein to assist him in dictating his notes.\n\nAt Wittgenstein's insistence, Moore, who was now a Cambridge don, visited him in Norway in 1914, reluctantly because Wittgenstein exhausted him. David Edmonds and John Eidinow write that Wittgenstein regarded Moore, an internationally known philosopher, as an example of how far someone could get in life with \"absolutely no intelligence whatever.\" In Norway it was clear that Moore was expected to act as Wittgenstein's secretary, taking down his notes, with Wittgenstein falling into a rage when Moore got something wrong. When he returned to Cambridge, Moore asked the university to consider accepting \"Logik\" as sufficient for a bachelor's degree, but they refused, saying it wasn't formatted properly: no footnotes, no preface. Wittgenstein was furious, writing to Moore in May 1914: \"If I am not worth your making an exception for me \"even in some STUPID details\" then I may as well go to Hell directly; and if I \"am\" worth it and you don't do it then—by God—\"you\" might go there.\" Moore was apparently distraught; he wrote in his diary that he felt sick and could not get the letter out of his head. The two did not speak again until 1929.\n\nOn the outbreak of World War I, Wittgenstein immediately volunteered for the Austro-Hungarian Army, despite being eligible for a medical exemption. He served first on a ship and then in an artillery workshop 'several miles from the action'. He was wounded in an accidental explosion, and hospitalised to Kraków. In March 1916, he was posted to a fighting unit on the front line of the Russian front, as part of the Austrian 7th Army, where his unit was involved in some of the heaviest fighting, defending against the Brusilov Offensive. Wittgenstein directed the fire of his own artillery from an observation post in no-man's land against Allied troops – one of the most dangerous jobs there was, since he was targeted by enemy fire. In action against British troops, he was decorated with the Military Merit with Swords on the Ribbon, and was commended by the army for \"His exceptionally courageous behaviour, calmness, sang-froid, and heroism,\" that \"won the total admiration of the troops.\" In January 1917, he was sent as a member of a howitzer regiment to the Russian front, where he won several more medals for bravery including the Silver Medal for Valour, First Class. In 1918, he was promoted to lieutenant and sent to the Italian front as part of an artillery regiment. For his part in the final Austrian offensive of June 1918, he was recommended for the Gold Medal for Valour, one of the highest honours in the Austrian army, but was instead awarded the Band of the Military Service Medal with Swords — it being decided that this particular action, although extraordinarily brave, had been insufficiently consequential to merit the highest honour.\n\nThroughout the war, he kept notebooks in which he frequently wrote philosophical reflections alongside personal remarks, including his contempt for the character of the other soldiers. He discovered Leo Tolstoy's 1896 \"The Gospel in Brief\" at a bookshop in Tarnów, and carried it everywhere, recommending it to anyone in distress, to the point where he became known to his fellow soldiers as \"the man with the gospels.\"\n\nThe extent to which \"The Gospel in Brief\" influenced Wittgenstein can be seen in the \"Tractatus\", in the unique way both books number their sentences. 1916 Wittgenstein read Dostoevsky's \"The Brothers Karamazov\" so often that he knew whole passages of it by heart, particularly the speeches of the elder Zosima, who represented for him a powerful Christian ideal, a holy man \"who could see directly into the souls of other people.\" Iain King has suggested his writing changed substantially in 1916, when he started confronting much greater dangers during frontline fighting. Russell said he returned from the war a changed man, one with a deeply mystical and ascetic attitude.\n\nIn the summer of 1918 Wittgenstein took military leave and went to stay in one of his family's Vienna summer houses, Neuwaldegg. It was there in August 1918 that he completed the \"Tractatus\", which he submitted with the title \"Der Satz\" (German: proposition, sentence, phrase, set, but also \"leap\") to the publishers Jahoda and Siegel.\n\nA series of events around this time left him deeply upset. On 13 August, his uncle Paul died. On 25 October, he learned that Jahoda and Siegel had decided not to publish the \"Tractatus\", and on 27 October, his brother Kurt killed himself, the third of his brothers to commit suicide. It was around this time he received a letter from David Pinsent's mother to say that Pinsent had been killed in a plane crash on 8 May. Wittgenstein was distraught to the point of being suicidal. He was sent back to the Italian front after his leave and, as a result of the defeat of the Austrian army, he was captured by Allied forces on 3 November in Trentino. He subsequently spent nine months in an Italian prisoner of war camp.\n\nHe returned to his family in Vienna on 25 August 1919, by all accounts physically and mentally spent. He apparently talked incessantly about suicide, terrifying his sisters and brother Paul. He decided to do two things: to enroll in teacher training college as an elementary school teacher, and to get rid of his fortune. In 1914, it had been providing him with an income of 300,000 Kronen a year, but by 1919 was worth a great deal more, with a sizable portfolio of investments in the United States and the Netherlands. He divided it among his siblings, except for Margarete, insisting that it not be held in trust for him. His family saw him as ill, and acquiesced.\n\nIn September 1919 he enrolled in the \"Lehrerbildungsanstalt\" (teacher training college) in the \"Kundmanngasse\" in Vienna. His sister Hermine said that Wittgenstein working as an elementary teacher was like using a precision instrument to open crates, but the family decided not to interfere. Thomas Bernhard, more critically, wrote of this period in Wittgenstein's life: \"the multi-millionaire as a village schoolmaster is surely a piece of perversity.\"\n\nIn the summer of 1920, Wittgenstein worked as a gardener for a monastery. At first he applied, under a false name, for a teaching post at Reichenau, was awarded the job, but he declined it when his identity was discovered. As a teacher, he wished to no longer be recognized as a member of the famous Wittgenstein family. In response, his brother Paul wrote: \"It is out of the question, really completely out of the question, that anybody bearing our name and whose elegant and gentle upbringing can be seen a thousand paces off, would not be identified as a member of our family... That one can neither simulate nor dissimulate anything including a refined education I need hardly tell you.\"\n\nIn 1920, Wittgenstein was given his first job as a primary school teacher in Trattenbach, under his real name, in a remote village of a few hundred people. His first letters describe it as beautiful, but in October 1921, he wrote to Russell: \"I am still at Trattenbach, surrounded, as ever, by odiousness and baseness. I know that human beings on the average are not worth much anywhere, but here they are much more good-for-nothing and irresponsible than elsewhere.\" He was soon the object of gossip among the villagers, who found him eccentric at best. He did not get on well with the other teachers; when he found his lodgings too noisy, he made a bed for himself in the school kitchen. He was an enthusiastic teacher, offering late-night extra tuition to several of the students, something that did not endear him to the parents, though some of them came to adore him; his sister Hermine occasionally watched him teach and said the students \"literally crawled over each other in their desire to be chosen for answers or demonstrations.\"\n\nTo the less able, it seems that he became something of a tyrant. The first two hours of each day were devoted to mathematics, hours that Monk writes some of the pupils recalled years later with horror. They reported that he caned the boys and boxed their ears, and also that he pulled the girls' hair; This was not unusual at the time for boys, but for the villagers he went too far in doing it to the girls too; girls were not expected to understand algebra, much less have their ears boxed over it. The violence apart, Monk writes that he quickly became a village legend, shouting \"Krautsalat!\" (\"coleslaw\" – i.e. shredded cabbage) when the headmaster played the piano, and \"Nonsense!\" when a priest was answering children's questions.\n\nWhile Wittgenstein was living in isolation in rural Austria, the \"Tractatus\" was published to considerable interest, first in German in 1921 as \"Logisch-Philosophische Abhandlung\", part of Wilhelm Ostwald's journal \"Annalen der Naturphilosophie\", though Wittgenstein was not happy with the result and called it a pirate edition. Russell had agreed to write an introduction to explain why it was important, because it was otherwise unlikely to have been published: it was difficult if not impossible to understand, and Wittgenstein was unknown in philosophy. In a letter to Russell, Wittgenstein wrote \"The main point is the theory of what can be expressed (gesagt) by prop[osition]s—i.e. by language—(and, which comes to the same thing, what can be \"thought\") and what can not be expressed by pro[position]s, but only shown (gezeigt); which, I believe, is the cardinal problem of philosophy.\" But Wittgenstein was not happy with Russell's help. He had lost faith in Russell, finding him glib and his philosophy mechanistic, and felt he had fundamentally misunderstood the \"Tractatus\".\n\nAn English translation was prepared in Cambridge by Frank Ramsey, a mathematics undergraduate at King's commissioned by C. K. Ogden. It was Moore who suggested \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\" for the title, an allusion to Baruch Spinoza's \"Tractatus Theologico-Politicus.\" Initially there were difficulties in finding a publisher for the English edition too, because Wittgenstein was insisting it appear without Russell's introduction; Cambridge University Press turned it down for that reason. Finally in 1922 an agreement was reached with Wittgenstein that Kegan Paul would print a bilingual edition with Russell's introduction and the Ramsey-Ogden translation. This is the translation that was approved by Wittgenstein, but it is problematic in a number of ways. Wittgenstein's English was poor at the time, and Ramsey was a teenager who had only recently learned German, so philosophers often prefer to use a 1961 translation by David Pears and Brian McGuinness.\n\nAn aim of the \"Tractatus\" is to reveal the relationship between language and the world: what can be said about it, and what can only be shown. Wittgenstein argues that the logical structure of language provides the limits of meaning. The limits of language, for Wittgenstein, are the limits of philosophy. Much of philosophy involves attempts to say the unsayable: \"What we can say at all can be said clearly,\" he argues. Anything beyond that—religion, ethics, aesthetics, the mystical—cannot be discussed. They are not in themselves nonsensical, but any statement about them must be. He wrote in the preface: \"The book will, therefore, draw a limit to thinking, or rather—not to thinking, but to the expression of thoughts; for, in order to draw a limit to thinking we should have to be able to think both sides of this limit (we should therefore have to be able to think what cannot be thought).\"\n\nThe book is 75 pages long—\"As to the shortness of the book, I am \"awfully sorry for it\" ... If you were to squeeze me like a lemon you would get nothing more out of me,\" he told Ogden—and presents seven numbered propositions (1–7), with various sub-levels (1, 1.1, 1.11):\n\n\nIn September 1922 he moved to a secondary school in a nearby village, Hassbach, but considered the people there just as bad—\"These people are not human \"at all\" but loathsome worms,\" he wrote to a friend—and he left after a month. In November he began work at another primary school, this time in Puchberg in the Schneeberg mountains. There, he told Russell, the villagers were \"one-quarter animal and three-quarters human.\"\n\nFrank P. Ramsey visited him on 17 September 1923 to discuss the \"Tractatus\"; he had agreed to write a review of it for \"Mind\". He reported in a letter home that Wittgenstein was living frugally in one tiny whitewashed room that only had space for a bed, washstand, a small table, and one small hard chair. Ramsey shared an evening meal with him of coarse bread, butter, and cocoa. Wittgenstein's school hours were eight to twelve or one, and he had afternoons free. After Ramsey returned to Cambridge a long campaign began among Wittgenstein's friends to persuade him to return to Cambridge and away from what they saw as a hostile environment for him. He was accepting no help even from his family. Ramsey wrote to John Maynard Keynes: \"[Wittgenstein's family] are very rich and extremely anxious to give him money or do anything for him in any way, and he rejects all their advances; even Christmas presents or presents of invalid's food, when he is ill, he sends back. And this is not because they aren't on good terms but because he won't have any money he hasn't earned ... It is an awful pity.\"\n\nHe moved schools again in September 1924, this time to Otterthal, near Trattenbach; the socialist headmaster, Josef Putre, was someone Wittgenstein had become friends with while at Trattenbach. While he was there, he wrote a 42-page pronunciation and spelling dictionary for the children, \"Wörterbuch für Volksschulen\", published in Vienna in 1926 by Hölder-Pichler-Tempsky, the only book of his apart from the \"Tractatus\" that was published in his lifetime. A first edition sold in 2005 for £75,000.\n\nAn incident occurred in April 1926 and became known as \"Der Vorfall Haidbauer\" (the Haidbauer incident). Josef Haidbauer was an 11-year-old pupil whose father had died and whose mother worked as a local maid. He was a slow learner, and one day Wittgenstein hit him two or three times on the head, causing him to collapse. Wittgenstein carried him to the headmaster's office, then quickly left the school, bumping into a parent, Herr Piribauer, on the way out. Piribauer had been sent for by the children when they saw Haidbauer collapse; Wittgenstein had previously pulled Piribauer's daughter, Hermine, so hard by the ears that her ears had bled. Piribauer said that when he met Wittgenstein in the hall that day: \"I called him all the names under the sun. I told him he wasn't a teacher, he was an animal-trainer! And that I was going to fetch the police right away!\"\n\nPiribauer tried to have Wittgenstein arrested, but the village's police station was empty, and when he tried again the next day he was told Wittgenstein had disappeared. On 28 April 1926, Wittgenstein handed in his resignation to Wilhelm Kundt, a local school inspector, who tried to persuade him to stay; however, Wittgenstein was adamant that his days as a schoolteacher were over. Proceedings were initiated in May, and the judge ordered a psychiatric report; in August 1926 a letter to Wittgenstein from a friend, Ludwig Hänsel, indicates that hearings were ongoing, but nothing is known about the case after that. Alexander Waugh writes that Wittgenstein's family and their money may have had a hand in covering things up. Waugh writes that Haidbauer died shortly afterwards of haemophilia; Monk says he died when he was 14 of leukaemia.\n\nTen years later, in 1936, as part of a series of \"confessions\" he engaged in that year, Wittgenstein appeared without warning at the village saying he wanted to confess personally and ask for pardon from the children he had hit. He visited at least four of the children, including Hermine Piribauer, who apparently replied only with a \"Ja, ja,\" though other former students were more hospitable. Monk writes that the purpose of these confessions was not \"to hurt his pride, as a form of punishment; it was to dismantle it—to remove a barrier, as it were, that stood in the way of honest and decent thought.\" Of the apologies, Wittgenstein wrote, \"This brought me into more settled waters... and to greater seriousness.\"\n\nThe \"Tractatus\" was now the subject of much debate amongst philosophers, and Wittgenstein was a figure of increasing international fame. In particular, a discussion group of philosophers, scientists and mathematicians, known as the Vienna Circle, had built up largely as a result of the inspiration they had been given by reading the \"Tractatus\". While it is commonly assumed that Wittgenstein was a part of the Vienna Circle, in reality, this was not actually the case. German philosopher Oswald Hanfling writes bluntly: \"Wittgenstein was never a member of the Circle, though he was in Vienna during much of the time. Yet his influence on the Circle's thought was at least as important as that of any of its members.\" From 1926, with the members of the Vienna Circle, Wittgenstein would take part in many discussions. However, during these discussions, it soon became evident that Wittgenstein held a different attitude towards philosophy than the members of the Circle whom his work had inspired. For example, during meetings of the Vienna Circle, he would express his disagreement with the group's misreading of his work by turning his back to them and reading poetry aloud. In his autobiography, Rudolf Carnap describes Wittgenstein as the thinker who gave him the greatest inspiration. However, he also wrote that \"there was a striking difference between Wittgenstein's attitude toward philosophical problems and that of Schlick and myself. Our attitude toward philosophical problems was not very different from that which scientists have toward their problems.\" As for Wittgenstein:\n\nIn 1926 Wittgenstein was again working as a gardener for a number of months, this time at the monastery of Hütteldorf, where he had also inquired about becoming a monk. His sister, Margaret, invited him to help with the design of her new townhouse in Vienna's \"Kundmanngasse\". Wittgenstein, his friend Paul Engelmann, and a team of architects developed a spare modernist house. In particular, Wittgenstein focused on the windows, doors, and radiators, demanding that every detail be exactly as he specified. When the house was nearly finished Wittgenstein had an entire ceiling raised 30mm so that the room had the exact proportions he wanted. Monk writes that \"This is not so marginal as it may at first appear, for it is precisely these details that lend what is otherwise a rather plain, even ugly house its distinctive beauty.\"\n\nIt took him a year to design the door handles and another to design the radiators. Each window was covered by a metal screen that weighed 150 kg, moved by a pulley Wittgenstein designed. Bernhard Leitner, author of \"The Architecture of Ludwig Wittgenstein\", said there is barely anything comparable in the history of interior design: \"It is as ingenious as it is expensive. A metal curtain that could be lowered into the floor.\"\n\nThe house was finished by December 1928 and the family gathered there at Christmas to celebrate its completion. Wittgenstein's sister Hermine wrote: \"Even though I admired the house very much...It seemed indeed to be much more a dwelling for the gods.\" Wittgenstein said \"the house I built for Gretl is the product of a decidedly sensitive ear and \"good\" manners, and expression of great \"understanding\"... But \"primordial\" life, wild life striving to erupt into the open – that is lacking.\" Monk comments that the same might be said of the technically excellent, but austere, terracotta sculpture Wittgenstein had modelled of Marguerite Respinger in 1926, and that, as Russell first noticed, this \"wild life striving to be in the open\" was precisely the substance of Wittgenstein's philosophical work.\n\nAccording to Feigl (as reported by Monk), upon attending a conference in Vienna by mathematician Brouwer, Wittgenstein remained quite impressed, taking into consideration the possibility of a \"return to Philosophy\". At the urging of Ramsey and others, Wittgenstein returned to Cambridge in 1929. Keynes wrote in a letter to his wife: \"Well, God has arrived. I met him on the 5.15 train.\" Despite this fame, he could not initially work at Cambridge as he did not have a degree, so he applied as an advanced undergraduate. Russell noted that his previous residency was sufficient to fulfill eligibility requirements for a PhD, and urged him to offer the \"Tractatus\" as his thesis. It was examined in 1929 by Russell and Moore; at the end of the thesis defence, Wittgenstein clapped the two examiners on the shoulder and said, \"Don't worry, I know you'll never understand it.\" Moore wrote in the examiner's report: \"I myself consider that this is a work of genius; but, even if I am completely mistaken and it is nothing of the sort, it is well above the standard required for the Ph.D. degree.\" Wittgenstein was appointed as a lecturer and was made a fellow of Trinity College.\n\nFrom 1936 to 1937, Wittgenstein lived again in Norway, where he worked on the \"Philosophical Investigations\". In the winter of 1936/7, he delivered a series of \"confessions\" to close friends, most of them about minor infractions like white lies, in an effort to cleanse himself. In 1938, he travelled to Ireland to visit Maurice O'Connor Drury, a friend who became a psychiatrist, and considered such training himself, with the intention of abandoning philosophy for it. The visit to Ireland was at the same time a response to the invitation of the then Irish Taoiseach, Éamon de Valera, himself a former mathematics teacher. De Valera hoped Wittgenstein's presence would contribute to the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies which he was soon to set up.While he was in Ireland in March 1938, Germany annexed Austria in the \"Anschluss\"; the Viennese Wittgenstein was now a citizen of the enlarged Germany and a Jew under the 1935 Nuremberg racial laws, because three of his grandparents had been born as Jews. The Nuremberg Laws classified people as Jews (\"Volljuden\") if they had three or four Jewish grandparents, and as mixed blood (\"Mischling\") if they had one or two. It meant \"inter alia\" that the Wittgensteins were restricted in whom they could marry or have sex with, and where they could work.\n\nAfter the Anschluss, his brother Paul left almost immediately for England, and later the US. The Nazis discovered his relationship with Hilde Schania, a brewer's daughter with whom he had had two children but whom he had never married, though he did later. Because she was not Jewish, he was served with a summons for \"Rassenschande\" (racial defilement). He told no one he was leaving the country, except for Hilde who agreed to follow him. He left so suddenly and quietly that for a time people believed he was the fourth Wittgenstein brother to have committed suicide.\n\nWittgenstein began to investigate acquiring British or Irish citizenship with the help of Keynes, and apparently had to confess to his friends in England that he had earlier misrepresented himself to them as having just one Jewish grandparent, when in fact he had three.\n\nA few days before the invasion of Poland, Hitler personally granted \"Mischling\" status to the Wittgenstein siblings. In 1939 there were 2,100 applications for this, and Hitler granted only 12. Anthony Gottlieb writes that the pretext was that their paternal grandfather had been the bastard son of a German prince, which allowed the Reichsbank to claim foreign currency, stocks and 1700 kg of gold held in Switzerland by a Wittgenstein family trust. Gretl, an American citizen by marriage, started the negotiations over the racial status of their grandfather, and the family's large foreign currency reserves were used as a bargaining tool. Paul had escaped to Switzerland and then the US in July 1938, and disagreed with the negotiations, leading to a permanent split between the siblings. After the war, when Paul was performing in Vienna, he did not visit Hermine who was dying there, and he had no further contact with Ludwig or Gretl.\n\nAfter G. E. Moore resigned the chair in philosophy in 1939, Wittgenstein was elected, and acquired British citizenship soon afterwards. In July 1939 he travelled to Vienna to assist Gretl and his other sisters, visiting Berlin for one day to meet an official of the Reichsbank. After this, he travelled to New York to persuade Paul, whose agreement was required, to back the scheme. The required Befreiung was granted in August 1939. The unknown amount signed over to the Nazis by the Wittgenstein family, a week or so before the outbreak of war, included amongst many other assets, 1,700 kg of gold. There is a report Wittgenstein visited Moscow a second time in 1939, travelling from Berlin, and again met the philosopher Sophia Janowskaya.\n\nNorman Malcolm, at the time a post-graduate research fellow at Cambridge, describes his first impressions of Wittgenstein in 1938: \n\nDescribing Wittgenstein's lecture program, Malcolm continues: \n\nAfter work, the philosopher would often relax by watching Westerns, where he preferred to sit at the very front of the cinema, or reading detective stories especially the ones written by Norbert Davis. Norman Malcolm wrote that Wittgenstein would rush to the cinema when class ended.\n\nBy this time, Wittgenstein's view on the foundations of mathematics had changed considerably. In his early 20s, Wittgenstein had thought logic could provide a solid foundation, and he had even considered updating Russell and Whitehead's \"Principia Mathematica\". Now he denied there were any mathematical facts to be discovered. He gave a series of lectures on mathematics, discussing this and other topics, documented in a book, with lectures by Wittgenstein and discussions between him and several students, including the young Alan Turing who described Wittgenstein as \"a \"very\" peculiar man\". The two had many discussions about the relationship between computational logic and everyday notions of truth.\n\nMonk writes that Wittgenstein found it intolerable that a war was going on and he was teaching philosophy. He grew angry when any of his students wanted to become professional philosophers.\n\nIn September 1941, he asked John Ryle, the brother of the philosopher Gilbert Ryle, if he could get a manual job at Guy's Hospital in London. John Ryle was professor of medicine at Cambridge and had been involved in helping Guy's prepare for the Blitz. Wittgenstein told Ryle he would die slowly if left at Cambridge, and he would rather die quickly. He started working at Guy's shortly afterwards as a dispensary porter, delivering drugs from the pharmacy to the wards where he apparently advised the patients not to take them.\n\nIn the new year of 1942, Ryle took Wittgenstein to his home in Sussex to meet his wife who had been adamant to meet him. Ryle's son recorded the weekend in his diary;Wink is awful strange – not a very good english speaker, keeps on saying ‘I mean’ and ‘its “tolerable”’ meaning intolerable. The hospital staff were not told he was one of the world's most famous philosophers, though some of the medical staff did recognize him—at least one had attended Moral Sciences Club meetings—but they were discreet. \"Good God, don't tell anybody who I am!\" Wittgenstein begged one of them. Some of them nevertheless called him Professor Wittgenstein, and he was allowed to dine with the doctors. He wrote on 1 April 1942: \"I no longer feel any hope for the future of my life. It is as though I had before me nothing more than a long stretch of living death. I cannot imagine any future for me other than a ghastly one. Friendless and joyless.\" It was at this time that Wittgenstein had an operation at Guy's to remove a gall-stone that had troubled him for some years.\n\nHe had developed a friendship with Keith Kirk, a working-class teenage friend of Francis Skinner, the mathematics undergraduate he had had a relationship with until Skinner's death in 1941 from polio. Skinner had given up academia, thanks at least in part to Wittgenstein's influence, and had been working as a mechanic in 1939, with Kirk as his apprentice. Kirk and Wittgenstein struck up a friendship, with Wittgenstein giving him lessons in physics to help him pass a City and Guilds exam. During his period of loneliness at Guy's he wrote in his diary: \"For ten days I've heard nothing more from K, even though I pressed him a week ago for news. I think that he has perhaps broken with me. A \"tragic\" thought!\" Kirk had in fact got married, and they never saw one another again.\n\nWhile Wittgenstein was at Guy's he met Basil Reeve, a young doctor with an interest in philosophy, who, with R. T. Grant, was studying the effect of shock on air-raid casualties. When the blitz ended there were fewer casualties to study. In November 1942, Grant and Reeve moved to the Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle upon Tyne, to study road traffic and industrial casualties. Grant offered Wittgenstein a position as a laboratory assistant at a wage of £4 per week, and he lived in Newcastle (at 28 Brandling Park, Jesmond) from 29 April 1943 until February 1944.\n\nIn the summer of 1946, Wittgenstein thought often of leaving Cambridge and resigning his position as Chair. Wittgenstein grew further dismayed at the state of philosophy, particularly about articles published in the journal \"Mind\". It was around this time that Wittgenstein fell in love with Ben Richards writing in his diary, \"The only thing that my love for B. has done for me is this: it has driven the other small worries associated with my position and my work into the background.\" On the 30th of September, Wittgenstein wrote about Cambridge after his return from Swansea, \"Everything about the place repels me. The stiffness, the artificiality, the self-satisfaction of the people. The university atmosphere nauseates me.\"\n\nWittgenstein had only maintained contact with Fouracre from Guy's hospital who had joined the army in 1943 after his marriage, only returning in 1947. Wittgenstein maintained frequent correspondence with Fouracre during his time away displaying a desire for Fouracre to return home urgently from the war.\n\nIn May 1947, Wittgenstein addressed a group of Oxford philosophers for the first time at the Jowett Society. The discussion was on the validity of Descartes' Cogito ergo sum where Wittgenstein ignored the question and applied his own philosophical method. Harold Arthur Prichard who attended the event was not pleased with Wittgenstein's methods;Wittgenstein: If a man says to me, looking at the sky, ‘I think it will rain, therefore I exist,’ I do not understand him.Prichard: That’s all very fine; what we want to know is: is the cogito valid or not?\n\nWittgenstein resigned the professorship at Cambridge in 1947 to concentrate on his writing, and in 1947 and 1948 travelled to Ireland, staying at Ross's Hotel in Dublin and at a farmhouse in Redcross, County Wicklow, where he began the manuscript volume MS 137, Band R. Seeking solitude he moved to \"Rosro\", a holiday cottage in Connemara owned by Maurice O'Connor-Drury.\n\nHe also accepted an invitation from Norman Malcolm, then professor at Cornell University, to stay with him and his wife for several months at Ithaca, New York. He made the trip in April 1949, although he told Malcolm he was too unwell to do philosophical work: \"I haven't done any work since the beginning of March & I haven't had the strength of even trying to do any.\" A doctor in Dublin had diagnosed anaemia and prescribed iron and liver pills. The details of Wittgenstein's stay in America are recounted in Norman Malcolm's \"Ludwig Wittgenstein: A Memoir\". During his summer in America, Wittgenstein began his epistemological discussions, in particular his engagement with philosophical skepticism, that would eventually become the final fragments \"On Certainty\".\n\nHe returned to London, where he was diagnosed with an inoperable prostate cancer, which had spread to his bone marrow. He spent the next two months in Vienna, where his sister Hermine died on 11 February 1950; he went to see her every day, but she was hardly able to speak or recognize him. \"Great loss for me and all of us,\" he wrote. \"Greater than I would have thought.\" He moved around a lot after Hermine's death staying with various friends: to Cambridge in April 1950, where he stayed with G. H. von Wright; to London to stay with Rush Rhees; then to Oxford to see Elizabeth Anscombe, writing to Norman Malcolm that he was hardly doing any philosophy. He went to Norway in August with Ben Richards, then returned to Cambridge, where on 27 November he moved into \"Storey's End\" at 76 Storey's Way, the home of his doctor, Edward Bevan, and his wife Joan; he had told them he did not want to die in a hospital, so they said he could spend his last days in their home instead. Joan at first was afraid of Wittgenstein, but they soon became good friends.\n\nBy the beginning of 1951, it was clear that he had little time left. He wrote a new will in Oxford on 29 January, naming Rhees as his executor, and Anscombe and von Wright his literary administrators, and wrote to Norman Malcolm that month to say, \"My mind's completely dead. This isn't a complaint, for I don't really suffer from it. I know that life must have an end once and that mental life can cease before the rest does.\" In February he returned to the Bevans' home to work on MS 175 and MS 176. These and other manuscripts were later published as \"Remarks on Colour\" and \"On Certainty\". He wrote to Malcolm on 16 April 13 days before his death: \"An extraordinary thing happened to me. About a month ago I suddenly found myself in the right frame of mind for doing philosophy. I had been \"absolutely\" certain that I'd never again be able to do it. It's the first time after more than 2 years that the curtain in my brain has gone up.—Of course, so far I've only worked for about 5 weeks & it may be all over by tomorrow; but it bucks me up a lot now.\"\n\nWittgenstein began work on his final manuscript, MS 177, on 25 April 1951. It was his 62nd birthday on 26 April. He went for a walk the next afternoon, and wrote his last entry that day, 27 April. That evening, he became very ill; when his doctor told him he might live only a few days, he reportedly replied, \"Good!\" Joan stayed with him throughout that night, and just before losing consciousness for the last time on 28 April, he told her: \"Tell them I've had a wonderful life.\" Norman Malcolm describes this as a \"...strangely moving utterance.\"\n\nFour of Wittgenstein's former students arrived at his bedside—Ben Richards, Elizabeth Anscombe, Yorick Smythies, and Maurice O'Connor Drury. Anscombe and Smythies were Catholics; and, at the latter's request, a Dominican friar, Father Conrad Pepler, also attended. They were at first unsure what Wittgenstein would have wanted, but then remembered he had said he hoped his Catholic friends would pray for him, so they did, and he was pronounced dead shortly afterwards.\n\nWittgenstein was given a Catholic burial at Parish of the Ascension Burial Ground in Cambridge. Drury later said he had been troubled ever since about whether that was the right thing to do. In 2015 the ledger gravestone was refurbished by the British Wittgenstein Society.\n\nOn his religious views, Wittgenstein was said to be greatly interested in Catholicism and was sympathetic to it. In his university years, he expressed belief in the resurrection of Jesus. However, he did not consider himself to be a Catholic. According to Norman Malcolm, Wittgenstein saw Catholicism as more of a way of life than as a set of beliefs he personally held, considering that he did not accept any religious faith.\n\nWittgenstein was said by some commentators to be agnostic, in a qualified sense.\n\nThe \"Blue Book\", a set of notes dictated to his class at Cambridge in 1933–1934, contains the seeds of Wittgenstein's later thoughts on language and is widely read as a turning-point in his philosophy of language.\n\n\"Philosophical Investigations\" was published in two parts in 1953. Most of Part I was ready for printing in 1946, but Wittgenstein withdrew the manuscript from his publisher. The shorter Part II was added by his editors, Elizabeth Anscombe and Rush Rhees. Wittgenstein asks the reader to think of language as a multiplicity of language-games within which parts of language develop and function. He argues the bewitchments of philosophical problems arise from philosophers' misguided attempts to consider the meaning of words independently of their context, usage, and grammar, what he called \"language gone on holiday.\"\n\nAccording to Wittgenstein, philosophical problems arise when language is forced from its proper home into a metaphysical environment, where all the familiar and necessary landmarks and contextual clues are removed. He describes this metaphysical environment as like being on frictionless ice: where the conditions are apparently perfect for a philosophically and logically perfect language, all philosophical problems can be solved without the muddying effects of everyday contexts; but where, precisely because of the lack of friction, language can in fact do no work at all. Wittgenstein argues that philosophers must leave the frictionless ice and return to the \"rough ground\" of ordinary language in use. Much of the \"Investigations\" consists of examples of how the first false steps can be avoided, so that philosophical problems are dissolved, rather than solved: \"the clarity we are aiming at is indeed \"complete\" clarity. But this simply means that the philosophical problems should \"completely\" disappear.\"\n\nWittgenstein left a voluminous archive of unpublished papers, including 83 manuscripts, 46 typescripts and 11 dictations, amounting to an estimated 20,000 pages. Choosing among repeated drafts, revisions, corrections and loose notes editorial work has found nearly one third of the total suitable for print. An Internet facility hosted by the University of Bergen allows access to images of almost all the material and to search the available transcriptions. In 2011 two new boxes of Wittgenstein papers were found.\n\n\"Philosophical Investigations\" was the only nearly finished project and the book was published in 1953.\n\nIn 1999 a survey among American university and college teachers ranked the \"Investigations\" as the most important book of 20th-century philosophy, standing out as \"the one crossover masterpiece in twentieth-century philosophy, appealing across diverse specializations and philosophical orientations.\" The \"Investigations\" also ranked 54th on a list of most influential twentieth-century works in cognitive science prepared by the University of Minnesota's Center for Cognitive Sciences.\n\nPeter Hacker argues that Wittgenstein's influence on 20th-century analytical philosophy can be attributed to his early influence on the Vienna Circle and later influence on the Oxford \"ordinary language\" school and Cambridge philosophers.\n\nWittgenstein's influence has been felt in nearly every field of the humanities and social sciences, yet there are diverging interpretations of his thought. In the words of his friend and colleague Georg Henrik von Wright: He was of the opinion... that his ideas were generally misunderstood and distorted even by those who professed to be his disciples. He doubted he would be better understood in the future. He once said he felt as though he was writing for people who would think in a different way, breathe a different air of life, from that of present-day men.\n\nSince Wittgenstein's death, scholarly interpretations of his philosophy have differed. Scholars have differed on the continuity between \"early\" and \"late\" Wittgenstein (that is, the difference between his views expressed in the \"Tractatus\" and those in \"Philosophical Investigations\"), with some seeing the two as starkly disparate and others stressing the gradual transition between the two works through analysis of Wittgenstein's unpublished papers (the \"Nachlass\").\n\nOne significant debate in Wittgenstein scholarship concerns the work of interpreters who are referred to under the banner of The New Wittgenstein school such as Cora Diamond, Alice Crary, and James F. Conant. While the \"Tractatus\", particularly in its conclusion, seems paradoxical and self-undermining, New Wittgenstein scholars advance a \"therapeutic\" understanding of Wittgenstein's work—\"an understanding of Wittgenstein as aspiring, not to advance metaphysical theories, but rather to help us work ourselves out of confusions we become entangled in when philosophizing.\" To support this goal, the New Wittgenstein scholars propose a reading of the \"Tractatus\" as \"plain nonsense\"—arguing it does not attempt to convey a substantive philosophical project but instead simply tries to push the reader to abandon philosophical speculation. The therapeutic approach traces its roots to the philosophical work of John Wisdom and the review of \"The Blue Book\" written by Oets Kolk Bouwsma.\n\nThe therapeutic approach is not without critics: Hans-Johann Glock argues that the \"plain nonsense\" reading of the \"Tractatus\" \"...is at odds with the external evidence, writings and conversations in which Wittgenstein states that the \"Tractatus\" is committed to the idea of ineffable insight.\"\n\nIn October 1944, Wittgenstein returned to Cambridge around the same time as Russell who had been living in America for several years. Russell returned to Cambridge after a backlash in America to his writings on morals and religion. Wittgenstein said of Russell's works to Drury;Russell’s books should be bound in two colours…those dealing with mathematical logic in red – and all students of philosophy should read them; those dealing with ethics and politics in blue – and no one should be allowed to read them.Russell made similar disparaging comments about Wittgenstein's later work;I have not found in Wittgenstein's Philosophical Investigations anything that seemed to me interesting and I do not understand why a whole school finds important wisdom in its pages. Psychologically this is surprising. The earlier Wittgenstein, whom I knew intimately, was a man addicted to passionately intense thinking, profoundly aware of difficult problems of which I, like him, felt the importance, and possessed (or at least so I thought) of true philosophical genius. The later Wittgenstein, on the contrary, seems to have grown tired of serious thinking and to have invented a doctrine which would make such an activity unnecessary. I do not for one moment believe that the doctrine which has these lazy consequences is true. I realize, however, that I have an overpoweringly strong bias against it, for, if it is true, philosophy is, at best, a slight help to lexicographers, and at worst, an idle tea-table amusement.\n\nSaul Kripke's 1982 book \"Wittgenstein on Rules and Private Language\" contends that the central argument of Wittgenstein's \"Philosophical Investigations\" centers on a devastating rule-following paradox that undermines the possibility of our ever following rules in our use of language. Kripke writes that this paradox is \"the most radical and original skeptical problem that philosophy has seen to date.\"\n\nKripke's book generated a large secondary literature, divided between those who find his skeptical problem interesting and perceptive, and others, such as Gordon Baker and Peter Hacker, who argue that his meaning skepticism is a pseudo-problem that stems from a confused, selective reading of Wittgenstein. Kripke's position has, however recently been defended against these and other attacks by the Cambridge philosopher Martin Kusch (2006), and Wittgenstein scholar David G. Stern considers the book to be \"the most influential and widely discussed\" work on Wittgenstein since the 1980s.\n\nA collection of Ludwig Wittgenstein's manuscripts is held by Trinity College, Cambridge.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1838677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1838677", "title": "Massimo Pigliucci", "text": "Massimo Pigliucci\n\nMassimo Pigliucci (; born January 16, 1964) is Professor of Philosophy at CUNY-City College, formerly co-host of the \"Rationally Speaking Podcast\", and formerly the editor in chief for the online magazine \"Scientia Salon\". He is an outspoken critic of pseudoscience and creationism, and an advocate for secularism and science education.\n\nPigliucci was born in Monrovia, Liberia and raised in Rome, Italy. He has a doctorate in genetics from the University of Ferrara, Italy, a PhD in biology from the University of Connecticut, and a PhD in philosophy of science from the University of Tennessee. He is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry.\n\nPigliucci was formerly a professor of ecology and evolution at Stony Brook University. He explored phenotypic plasticity, genotype-environment interactions, natural selection, and the constraints imposed on natural selection by the genetic and developmental makeup of organisms. In 1997, while working at the University of Tennessee, Pigliucci received the Theodosius Dobzhansky Prize, awarded annually by the Society for the Study of Evolution to recognize the accomplishments and future promise of an outstanding young evolutionary biologist. As a philosopher, Pigliucci is interested in the structure and foundations of evolutionary theory, the relationship between science and philosophy, and the relationship between science and religion. He is a proponent of the extended evolutionary synthesis.\n\nPigliucci writes regularly for \"Skeptical Inquirer\" on topics such as climate change denial, intelligent design, pseudoscience, and philosophy. He has also written for \"Philosophy Now\" and maintains a blog called \"Rationally Speaking\". He has debated \"deniers of evolution\" (young-earth creationists and intelligent design proponents), including young earth creationists Duane Gish and Kent Hovind and intelligent design proponents William Dembski and Jonathan Wells, on many occasions. \n\nWhile Pigliucci is an atheist himself, he does not believe that science necessarily demands atheism because of two distinctions: the distinction between methodological naturalism and philosophical naturalism, and the distinction between value judgements and matters of fact. He believes that many scientists and science educators fail to appreciate these differences. Pigliucci has criticized New Atheist writers for embracing what he considers to be scientism (although he largely excludes philosopher Daniel Dennett from this charge). In a discussion of his book \"Answers for Aristotle: How Science and Philosophy Can Lead Us to a More Meaningful Life\", Pigliucci told Skepticality podcast host Derek Colanduno, \"Aristotle was the first ancient thinker to really take seriously the idea that you need both empirical facts, you need an evidence-based approach to the world and you need to be able to reflect on the meaning of those facts... If you want answers to moral questions then you don't ask the neurobiologist, you don't ask the evolutionary biologist, you ask the philosopher.\"\n\nPigliucci describes the mission of skeptics, referencing Carl Sagan's \"Demon Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark\" saying \"What skeptics are about is to keep that candle lit and spread it as much as possible\". Pigliucci serves on the board of NYC Skeptics and on the advisory board of the Secular Coalition for America.\n\nIn 2001, he debated William Lane Craig over the existence of God.\n\nMassimo Pigliucci criticised the newspaper article by Pope Francis entitled, \"An open dialogue with non-believers\". Pigliucci viewed the article as a monologue rather than a dialogue and, in a response personally addressed to Pope Francis, wrote that the Pope only offered non-believers \"a reaffirmation of entirely unsubstantiated fantasies about God and his Son...followed by a confusion between the concept of love and truth, the whole peppered by a significant amount of historical revisionism and downright denial of the ugliest facets of your Church.\"\n\nIn August 2000 Massimo started with a monthly internet column called Rationally Speaking. In August 2005, the column became a blog, where he wrote posts until March 2014. Since 1 February 2010, he co-hosted the bi-weekly \"Rationally Speaking\" podcast together with Julia Galef, whom he first met at the Northeast Conference on Science and Skepticism, held in September 2009. The podcast is produced by the New York City Skeptics. He left the podcast in 2015 to pursue other interests. In 2010, Neil DeGrasse Tyson explained on the show his justification for spending large amounts of government money on space programs. He eventually printed the transcript of his performance as a guest on the show in his book \"Space Chronicles\" as a full chapter covering eight pages. Another episode in which Tyson explained his position on the label \"atheism\" received attention on NPR.\n\n\nThe following are a select few of Pigliucci's articles. Some may be found at the Internet Infidels' Secular Web.\n\n"}
{"id": "916404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916404", "title": "Meeting of the minds", "text": "Meeting of the minds\n\nMeeting of the minds (also referred to as mutual agreement, mutual assent or consensus ad idem) is a phrase in contract law used to describe the intentions of the parties forming the contract. In particular, it refers to the situation where there is a common understanding in the formation of the contract. Formation of a contract is initiated with a proposal or offer. This condition or element is considered a requirement to the formation of a contract in some jurisdictions.\n\nRichard Austen-Baker has suggested that the perpetuation of the idea of 'meeting of minds' may come from a misunderstanding of the Latin term \"consensus ad idem\", which actually means 'agreement to the [same] thing'. There must be evidence that the parties had each, from an objective perspective, engaged in conduct manifesting their assent, and a contract will be formed when the parties have met such a requirement.\n\nGerman jurist, Friedrich Carl von Savigny is usually credited with developing the will theory of contract in his work \"System des heutigen Römischen Rechts\" (1840).\n\nSir Frederick Pollock is one person known for expounding the idea of a contract based on a meeting of minds, at which time it gained much support in the courts.\n\nOliver Wendell Holmes wrote in 1897 that a meeting of minds was really a fiction.\n\nThe English contracts scholar Richard Austen-Baker has suggested that the perpetuation of the concept into current times is based on a confusion of it with the concept of a \"consensus ad idem\" (\"agreement to the same [thing]\") which is an undoubted requirement of synallagmatic contracting, and that this confusion may be the result of recent ignorance of Latin.\n\nIn \"Household Fire and Carriage Accident Insurance Co Ltd v Grant\" (1879) 4 Ex D 216, Thesiger LJ said, in the course of a judgment on the postal rule,\n\nIn \"Carlill v Carbolic Smoke Ball Company\" [1893] 1 QB 256, Bowen LJ said,\n\nIn \"Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States\" (1923) the US Supreme Court said an implied in fact contract is,\n\nThe reasoning is that a party should not be held to a contract that they were not even aware existed. A mutual promise between friends over simple personal matters should not be a situation where legal remedies are to be used. Equally, any such agreement where the obligation is primarily a moral one rather than a legal one should not be enforceable. It is only when all parties involved are aware of the formation of a \"legal obligation\" is there a meeting of the minds.\n\nHowever, the awareness of a legal obligation is established, not through each party's subjective understanding of the terms, but on \"objective indicators,\" based on what each party said and did.\n\nUnder the formalist theory of contract, every contract must have six elements: offer, acceptance, consideration, \"meeting of the minds\", capacity and legality. Many other contracts, but not all types of contracts, also must be in writing and be signed by the responsible party, in an element called form. \n\nMutual assent is vitiated by actions such as fraud, undue influence, duress (see per minas), mutual mistake, or misrepresentation. This may render a contract void or unenforceable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41142900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41142900", "title": "Namaste Yoga", "text": "Namaste Yoga\n\n\"Namaste Yoga\" is an instructional yoga television series produced by Namaste TV, a division of Omnifilm Entertainment. Seasons 1 and 2 were produced in 2004 and choreographed and narrated by yoga instructor and therapist Kate Potter. In 2014 production began on Seasons 3 and 4, narrated and choreographed by yoga instructor Erica Blitz. Season 3 was released in 2014, while Season 4 is still in production. Each episode of Namaste Yoga teaches a unique Hatha Vinyasa style movement sequence. An original Canadian production, Namaste Yoga premiered April 1, 2005 on ACCESS and Canadian Learning Television in Canada and debuted April 23, 2005 on HDnet and June 28, 2006 on FitTV in the United States. The show aired in Canada on ONE: The Mind and Body Channel and has been broadcast internationally in France, Portugal, Spain, Scandinavia, Latin America, Central and South Asia, the Middle East, India and the United States.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Namaste: The Five Elements\" is an extended Namaste Yoga episode that incorporates the teachings of Ayurveda while maintaining the same format as the original \"Namaste Yoga\" series. This episode premiered in Canada on November 23, 2010 on ONE: The Mind and Body Channell and was released on DVD on December 6, 2010 with additional features including breathing practices and slow motion yoga practice tips. In addition to designing and narrating the sequences, Kate Potter also demonstrates the poses in this session.\n\n"}
{"id": "5757283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5757283", "title": "Philipp Albert Stapfer", "text": "Philipp Albert Stapfer\n\nPhilipp Albert Stapfer (Bern, 23 September 1766 – Paris, 27 March 1840) was a Swiss politician and philosopher.\n\nHe was the plenipotentiary envoi of the Helvetic Republic to the French consulate in Paris from 1801 till 1803. ( Act of Mediation )\n\nHe married and settled in France, at the Chateau de Talcy (Loir-et-Cher) and in Paris where he became the friend of Maine de Biran -in 1805 at informal gatherings of Cabanis circle at Auteuil. He was also vice-president of the Paris Protestant society.\n\nHe is the recipient of Maine de Biran's essay:\nan important résumé known as: \"Réponses à Stapfer\"\n\nPhilipp Albert Stapfer also shared with Maine de Biran a pronounced interest in the educational experiments of Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi.\n\nAs a Minister of Sciences and Arts of the Helvetic Republic in 1798 he arranged the nomination of Pestalozzi as chief editor of the government paper \"Helvetisches Volksblatt\" -a post from which Pestalozzi quickly resigned.\n\nIn Paris Stapfer pleaded Pestalozzi's case for educational reform with Napoleon Bonaparte, who denigrated the program for its alleged lack of real science.\n\nMaine de Biran however -following the encounters with Stapfer at Auteuil and his own appointement as \"sous-préfet\" of the Dordogne in 1806- reformed the education in his department by inviting to Bergerac a teacher formed by Pestalozzi at Yverdon.\n\nApart from being an involved and tolerant Protestant philosopher Stapfer, with André-Marie Ampère, Joseph-Marie de Gérando, Pierre Paul Royer-Collard, Georges Cuvier and many others was a regular participant in the philosophical debates organised by Maine de Biran, after the latter finally settled in Paris as an administrator in 1812.\n\nTogether with Degérando, who introduced Kant studies in France, he was one of Maine de Biran's main sources on the philosophy of Immanuel Kant whose work he followed in its development by one of Kant's pupils: Friedrich Bouterwek (1766-1828), professor in Philosophy at the Georg August University in Göttingen. \"Meyers Lexicon\" Mannheim 1990 links Bouterwek with Maine de Biran. Bouterwek was already lecturing on Kant at Göttingen when Stapfer studied there in 1789-1790.\n\nThe extent of Stapfer's knowledge of Kant can be judged from the substantial (pagelong) notes he appended to Maine de Biran's: \"Exposition de la doctrine philosophique de Leibniz. Composée pour la Biographie Universelle\" (Paris: Michaud ed 1819). This exposition written at the instigation of Stapfer is one of only two (authorised) philosophical texts by Maine de Biran published during his lifetime.\n\nStapfer long survived his immediate contemporaries de Biran and Bouterwek. He arranged for his own salon, inviting guests such as Victor Cousin, Sainte-Beuve, Guizot to whom he became an important material witness of the preceding decades.\n\nIt took the untiring persistence of Stapfer to encourage Victor Cousin and Joseph Lainé to classify and publish the works of Maine de Biran.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49519970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49519970", "title": "R. Adam Engle", "text": "R. Adam Engle\n\nR. Adam Engle (born February 17, 1942 in Yonkers, NY, U.S.A.) is an American social entrepreneur who initiated and developed the Mind and Life Dialogues between the 14th Dalai Lama of Tibet and panels of prominent scientists in the 1980s. Over the 22 years of his subsequent tenure as chief executive of the Mind and Life Institute, which he co-founded in 1990, his work contributed significantly to the establishment of contemplative science as a new field of research.\n\nIn 1983 the Harvard educated lawyer Engle, from Boulder, Colorado, came to know of Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama's interest in modern science and, realising from his personal Buddhist studies that the concept of a Buddhism-science interface was potentially an important new scientific field to be researched, he contacted the Dalai Lama's office in India offering to arrange a dialogue for him with selected western scientists. The Dalai Lama accepted and authorised Engle to set one up and Engle arranged the first dialogue to take place between him and five scientists in 1987. Over the next 25 years Engle organised dozens of international conferences between meditators and scientists and oversaw the publication of 11 top-selling books in a successful strategy to establish and popularise the new field of the Contemplative Sciences.\n\nThe initial meetings in the 1980s were so successful that Engle registered and funded the Mind and Life Institute in 1990 in the US as a not-for-profit 501(c)(3) organisation dedicated to exploring the interface between science and Buddhism. His two other co-founders were Tenzin Gyatso the 14th Dalai Lama of Tibet who would chair the dialogues and Francisco Varela the late Chilean neuroscientist, who until his untimely death in 2001 would coordinate the teams of scientists with relevant specialisations for each conference according to its theme.\n\nOn the institute's formal establishment in 1990 Engle, as its creator, became its Chair and CEO, a post he held for 22 years until his retirement in 2012. By then he had guided its development into \"a worldwide and influential organisation bringing together the highest standards of modern science and contemplative practice\".\n\nIn 1998, to optimise the potential for societal benefits, Engle broadened his institute's initial mission to include carrying out formal scientific research. At the next dialogue in 2000 Engle proposed that a series of scientific investigations should be carried out under laboratory conditions with the aim of establishing whether Buddhist contemplative practices could be of significant benefit to modern society. This proved to be the case and so Engle's next task was to develop ways of teaching the subject in a secular environment.\nAs an outcome of his organisation's next dialogue, held at MIT in 2003 and entitled ‘Investigating the Mind’ (the first one to be held as a public event, with an audience of 1,200), Engle took the initial steps to launch the first formal scientific research programme on this subject. Participanting scientists included Nobel Laureate Daniel Kahneman and Eric Lander, Director of the MIT Center for Genome Research. This conference marked the birth of Contemplative Neuroscience.\n\nIn 2004, Engle announced the launch of the annual Summer Research Institute at the Garrison Institute offering a new curriculum on contemplative neuroscience to graduates, post doctorates and members of the science faculty. He also launched the annual Francisco J. Varela Research Awards, to provide pilot study funding to suitable applicants. In 2005, Engle's second public dialogue was held in Washington DC, 'The Science and Clinical Applications of Meditation', co-sponsored by Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and Georgetown University Medical Center.\n\nIn 2012 Engle's strategy to establish the new field of Contemplative Sciences was completed when he initiated an International Symposium on Contemplative Studies in Denver Colorado, with 700 representatives from Contemplative Science and Studies research bodies in attendance.\n\nBy the time Engle retired from Mind and Life Institute in 2012 he had directed the organisation of 27 international dialogues, both private and public, between the Dalai Lama and other meditators and prominent scientists. To document the discussions and outcomes of the first 13 of these events, by 2012 eleven books (listed below) had been published under his oversight and videos or DVDs had been released covering most of the others.\n\nWhile chief executive of Mind and Life Institute, Engle oversaw the publication of the following books to document its work:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "679397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=679397", "title": "Raimond Gaita", "text": "Raimond Gaita\n\nRaimond Gaita (born Raimund Gaita 14 May 1946, Dortmund, Germany) is an Australian philosopher and award-winning writer. He was, until 2011, foundation professor of philosophy at the Australian Catholic University and professor of moral philosophy at King's College London. He is currently professorial fellow in the Melbourne Law School and the Faculty of Arts, University of Melbourne and emeritus professor of moral philosophy at King's College London. He is a fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities.\n\nRaimund Gaita (later styled as Raimond Gaita) was born in Dortmund, Westphalia, Germany, on 14 May 1946, to a Yugoslav-born, Romanian father, Romulus Gaiţă (28 December 1922May 1996) and a German mother, Christine ('Christel') Anna Dörr (16 November 19281958). In Germany from 1942 to 1945 Romulus was employed as a smith and metal worker. The Gaita family migrated to Australia in April 1950, just before Raimond turned four. He attended St. Patrick's College, Ballarat (Victoria), Melbourne High School (Victoria), the University of Melbourne (BA Hons, MA) and the University of Leeds (PhD).\n\nThe story of his childhood and the lives of his family members and close friends is told in his memoir \"Romulus, My Father\", which was made into a film starring Eric Bana (Romulus), Franka Potente (Christine), Kodi Smit-McPhee (Raimond) and Marton Csokas (Hora). In a later book, \"After Romulus, a collection of essays\", \"he reflects on the writing of the \"Romulus, My Father\", the making of the film, his relationship to the desolate beauty of the central Victorian landscape, the philosophies that underpinned his father's relationship to the world and, most movingly, the presence and absence of his mother and his unassuaged longing for her\". (from the publisher)\n\nHe is married to Yael Gaita, who was born in Tel Aviv and until 2008 was a teacher at King David School, Melbourne, where she taught Hebrew. Gaita has two children, Katerina and Eva and two step children, Dahlia and Michelle.\n\n\"Romulus My Father\" won the Nettie Palmer Prize for Non-Fiction in the Victorian Premier's Literary Award and was shortlisted for the Queensland Premier's Literary Awards for Contribution to Public Debate, the Braille Book of the Year, the National Biography Award. It was nominated by the \"New Statesman\", London, as one of the best books of 1999 and, in 2000, by \"The Australian Financial Review\" as one of the ten best books of the decade. In 2007 it was made into an award-winning feature film of the same name.\n\n\"A Common Humanity: Thinking about Love and Truth and Justice\" was nominated by \"The Economist\" as one of the best books of 2000.\n\n\"The Philosopher's Dog\" was shortlisted for the New South Wales Premier's Literary Awards, 2003 and The Age Book of the Year, 2003. It was nominated by the Kansas City Star as one of the ten best books of 2005.\n\nIn 2009, the University of Antwerp awarded Gaita the degree of Doctor Honoris Causa \"for his exceptional contribution to contemporary moral philosophy and for his singular contribution the role of the intellectual in today's academic world\". In 2011, Routledge published Christopher Cordner (ed.) \"\". Also in 2011, Flinders University held a conference in Gaita's honour: A \"Sense for Humanity: The Ethical Thought of Raimond Gaita\", which was published as a book of the same title in 2014 by Monash University Press.\n\n\n 철학자의 개, Korea, Dolbegae Publishers, 2017\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22843334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22843334", "title": "Raja Zafar ul Haq", "text": "Raja Zafar ul Haq\n\nRaja Muhammad Zafar-ul-Haq (Urdu: راجہ ظفرالحق; b. 18 November 1935), is a Pakistan Senator from the Punjab, serving since being elected on 12 March 2009. He is the current leader of the opposition in Senate. He is currently serving as the Chairman of the Pakistan Muslim League (N), a centre-right but conservative party, since 20 February 2000.\n\nA retired diplomat and lawyer by profession, Zafar-ul-Haq has served as the Minister of Religious Affairs in second administration of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif from 1997 until being removed in 1999. Haq is known for his views for support of the religious conservatism but strongly advocated for the religious temperance and \"Humility\".\n\nIn addition, he is also known for leading the constitutional initiatives to form the inquiry commission on kargil debacle to be investigated by the Supreme Court of Pakistan against Pervez Musharraf whom he saw the latter as \"traitor\", and voiced support for the civilian control of the military.\n\nZafar-ul-Haq was born in a small village, Matore, located in Kahuta Tehsil, Punjab in India into a Punjabi family on 18 November 1935. His father, Raja Fazal Dad Khan, was an inspector in the Punjab Police Department and attended various high schools in Punjab, and matriculated from Sialkot in 1952.\n\nHe went to attend the Government College University in Lahore where he secured his graduate with B.A. in Philosophy in 1956. He went to attend the law school of the Punjab University to read law and the political science, graduating with the LLB degree in civil law, and the MSc in political science in 1958.<ref name=\"senate/profile\"></ref>\n\nHe started practicing law with the law firm, the S.M. Zafar associates, in Lahore, but later moved to Rawalpindi where he took cases and practiced law until 1981. Zafar-ul-Haq moved to Islamabad where he became member of the Supreme Court Bar Association and became the supreme court advocate from 1985 until 1987. In 1977, he was elected as the president of the Rawalpindi Bar Association and was serving as vice president of the Punjab Bar Council in 1981.\n\nSince 1963, Zafar-ul-Haq had been participating in the national politics on a Pakistan Muslim League (PML) and is known for reflected views on religious conservatism while stressing to adopt the \"Humility\" to prevent violence and insanity. From 1980-81, Zafar-ul-Haq served as a member on the Panel of Experts for Pakistan Law Commission under the Ministry of Law and Justice. In 1981, he joined the Zia administration as the Information Minister and the Minister of Religious Affairs which served until 1985.\n\nIn 1985, President Zia-ul-Haq appointed him as the to Egypt which he tenured until 1986 when he was appointed as an adviser to Zia administration. He advised Prime Minister Mohammad Junejo on political and legal matters until 1987, and sided to join the Pakistan Muslim League (N) led by its President Fida Mohammad. In 1990–91, Zafar-ul-Haq presented Pakistan in the International Law Commission of the United Nations and was elected as Pakistan Senator for the first time in 1991 for a six-year term. In 1992, he was appointed in the Board of Trustees (BoT) of International Islamic University in Islamabad until 1997. During this time, he was appointed as the Secretary-General of the World Muslim Congress until 1997.\n\nIn 1997, he participated in the nationwide general elections on a Rawalpindi constituency which he successfully defended, and joined the second administration of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif as the Minister of Religious Affairs. He played a crucial and vital role in drafting the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan to declare the \"Islam as the Supreme Law\"— the amendment was passed with the two-thirds majority in the National Assembly (lower house) but failed to be passed in the Senate (Upper house) in 1999.\n\nOver the Kargil conflict in 1999, he reportedly warned the BJP ministry in India of \"Pakistan resorting to the nuclear weapons issue if the country's territorial integrity, security and sovereignty is harmed. Though, his statement was not taken as serious as he was not involved in the national security matters at that time, and was seen as a political statement which he stated during the meeting with his constituents.\n\nIn 2000, Zafar-ul-Haq was elected as the Chairman of the Pakistan Muslim League (N), which he is currently serving, whilst Javed Hashmi becoming the President of Pakistan Muslim League (N).\n\nOn 4 December 2001, Zafar-ul-Haq appealed to the religious and conservative mass to call for the massive public demonstration against the Pervez Musharraf, leading the pro-democracy movement with Amin Fahim to restore the civilian control. In 2009 he was elected to the Pakistani Senate for a six-year term. He was elected as the leader of the Independent Opposition Group (consisting of more than 6 parliamentary parties) in the Senate of Pakistan in 2009.\n\nOn 15 February 2018, PML(N) announced to appoint Zafar-ul-Haq for the Chairman Senate for the senate elections that were scheduled in 12 March 2018. Despite the PML(N) successfully retained the majority in the Senate, Zafar-ul-Haq's bid for the chairmanship was fell short through the number countings and, was defeated by independent Sadiq Sanjrani, who had support from the Asif Zardari and Imran Khan in spite of their disagreement.\n\nUpon hearing the news of the number manipulation in the Senate elections, PML(N)'s leadership and the Prime Minister Shahid Abbasi reacted very negatively, and reportedly quoted in the news media that \"Sanjrani holds no respect\", and calls were made for the reelection of the Senate elections.\n\nOn 24 August 2018, he was appointed leader of the opposition in the Senate.\n\nHis views reflected the religious conservatism but has strongly voice for the religious sanity and the interfaith dialogue among the three Abrahamic religions– Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. In his public speaking at the conservative conventions in the country, Zafar-ul-Haq has strongly stressed and argued for the religious temperance.\n\nIn 2005, Zafar-ul-Haq demanded the inquiry commission on kargil debacle to be investigated by the Supreme Court of Pakistan to point and recommend the punishment for those involved.\n\nAfter his removal from the Minister of Religious Affairs in 1999 due to the military takeover in 1999, Zafar-ul-Haq viewed very negatively of the performance of the Musharraf administration, which he believed was working towards weakening the state on a deliberate international agenda. In an interview in 2012, Zafar-ul-Haq held President Musharraf responsible of promoting religious intolerance in the country by introducing legislative reforms reflecting against the teachings of Islam without the consent of the public. He also accused Musharraf of starting the starting the armed conflict to harm the Kashmir cause, and raised his voice for civilian control of the military. Though, he has repeatedly spoke very high of Nawaz Sharif's services done to the country and Islam, he remained unsympathetic to suicide attacks being taken placed on Pervez Musharraf.\n\nIn 2011, he was quoted as saying that Islam is the prime source behind the uprising movements in the Middle East and North Africa. His statement came in response to the European intervention in Libya in favor of the Libyan Opposition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27694430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27694430", "title": "Redemptoris custos", "text": "Redemptoris custos\n\nRedemptoris custos (\"Guardian of the Redeemer\") is the title of an apostolic exhortation by Pope John Paul II on Saint Joseph. It was delivered on August 15, 1989 in Saint Peter's Basilica in Rome on the occasion of the centenary of Pope Leo XIII's encyclical \"Quamquam pluries\".\n\nNoted Josephologist Father Tarcisio Giuseppe Stramare of the Congregation of Oblates of Saint Joseph, was a main collaborator in the preparation of \"Redemptoris Custos\". This exhortation is part of the \"redemption documents\" issued by Pope John Paul II, and refers to the Marian encyclical \"Redemptoris Mater\". It discusses the importance of Saint Joseph in the Holy Family, and presents the pope's view of Saint Joseph's role in the plan of redemption. John Paul II positions Saint Joseph as breaking the old vice of paternal familial domination, and suggests him as the model of a loving father.\n\nThe exhortation has six main parts:\n\nIn this document, John Paul II reemphasized key elements of \"Quamquam Pluries\" regarding the position of St. Joseph in the Church and his connection to Mary, which he had already acknowledged in his encyclical \"Redemptoris Mater\". He wrote:\n\n\"Together with Mary, Joseph is the first guardian of this divine mystery. Together with Mary, and in relation to Mary, he shares in this final phase of God's self-revelation in Christ and he does so from the very beginning.\" \"The Gospels clearly describe the fatherly responsibility of Joseph toward Jesus. For salvation-which comes through the humanity of Jesus-is realized in actions which are an everyday part of family life... All of the so-called \"private\" or \"hidden\" life of Jesus is entrusted to Joseph's guardianship. \" \n\nPope John Paul II pointed out that as legal guardian of the child Jesus, Joseph fulfilled all the obligations that entailed: in having his son circumcised according to the law, in conferring a name upon him, and in presenting him in the Temple at the proscribed time. \n\nThe growth of Jesus \"in wisdom and in stature, and in favor with God and man\" (Lk 2:52) took place within the Holy Family under the eyes of Joseph, who had the important task of \"raising\" Jesus, that is, feeding, clothing and educating him in the Law and in a trade, in keeping with the duties of a father. ...For his part, Jesus \"was obedient to them\" (Lk 2:51), respectfully returning the affection of his 'parents'. In this way he wished to sanctify the obligations of the family and of work, which he performed at the side of Joseph. \n\nThe Church venerates the Holy Family, and proposes it as the model of all families. \"In this family, Joseph is the father: his fatherhood is not one that derives from begetting offspring; but neither is it an \"apparent\" or merely \"substitute\" fatherhood. Rather, it is one that fully shares in authentic human fatherhood and the mission of a father in the family. \n\n\"What is crucially important here is the sanctification of daily life, a sanctification which each person must acquire according to his or her own state, and one which can be promoted according to a model accessible to all people.\" John Paul II then quoted his predecessor, Pope Paul VI. \"St. Joseph is the model of those humble ones that Christianity raises up to great destinies;...he is the proof that in order to be a good and genuine follower of Christ, there is no need of great things-it is enough to have the common, simple and human virtues, but they need to be true and authentic.\" \n\nRecalling \"Quamquam pluries\", Pope John Paul II again stressed that the Church has implored the protection of Saint Joseph on the basis of \"that sacred bond of charity which united him to the Immaculate Virgin Mother of God,\" and that the Church has commended to Joseph all of her cares, including those dangers which threaten the human family. \"Besides trusting in Joseph's sure protection, the Church also trusts in his noble example, which transcends all individual states of life and serves as a model for the entire Christian community, whatever the condition and duties of each of its members may be.\" Joseph is the model of obedience, the man known for having faithfully carried out God's commands. \n\nIn 1999, the Oblates of St. Joseph named their new Shrine \"Saint Joseph the Guardian of the Redeemer\" after this apostolic exhortation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16859041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16859041", "title": "S. Albert Kivinen", "text": "S. Albert Kivinen\n\nSeppo Albert Kivinen (born October 19, 1933 in Ikaalinen) is a Finnish author and doctor of philosophy and docent emeritus of University of Helsinki, known for his occult interests and study of monsters. He is a onetime winner of the Atorox Award for best Finnish short story, for his Lovecraftian pastiche \"Keskiyön Mato Ikaalisissa\". Kivinen is a well known fixture in Finnish academia and a proponent of the study of the history of the occult with a sceptical bent.\n\nKivinen did his dissertation 1977 in the University of Helsinki in theoretical philosophy. He worked as the chairman of the Finland–Mongolia society in the early 1970s and as a member of the board of trustees of the Finnish Parapsychological society 1972–1974 and the Transscendentaaliradieastrian society during 1974–1987. He also served as the chairman of Skepsis society (the Finnish skeptics society).\n\nBesides his writings based on the mythos created by H. P. Lovecraft, he has also recorded politico-philosophic songs even with the co-operation of such notable Finnish artists as M. A. Numminen.\n\nKivinen has in his study of ontology researched the problem of universality, and has set himself on a stance of realism, and a notion of \"ontic communism\", which he puts into words in the form of \"There are many individuals in the world. These individuals have diverse similar (and distinguishing) characteristics.\" Also the mind-body problem has interested him. Besides Aristotle, his influences have been the Cambridge philosophers Bertrand Russell, G. E. Moore and C. D. Broad. Of which the last one being his avowed favorite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48054345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48054345", "title": "Shin fukatoku", "text": "Shin fukatoku\n\nShin fukatoku (), also known in English translation as The Mind Cannot Be Grasped, is a book of the Shōbōgenzō by the 13th century Sōtō Zen monk Eihei Dōgen. It was presented to his students in 1241 during the summer ango at his first monastery, Kōshōhōrin-ji, in Kyoto.\nThe book appears eighth in the 75 fascicle version of the Shōbōgenzō, and it is ordered eighteenth in the later chronological 95 fascicle \"\"Honzan\" edition\". It was also included as the third book of the 28 fascicle \"\"Eiheiji\" manuscript\" Shōbōgenzō, and a variant of it was fourth in that version as well. The title is an exceprt from the line from the Diamond Sutra \"Past mind cannot be grasped, present mind cannot be grasped, and future mind cannot be grasped\". Gudō Nishijima, a modern Zen priest, contrasts the subject of this book with the line of René Descartes \"I think, therefore I am\", which suggests the intellect can grasp the mind. Nishijima states that Buddhism is instead only a \"philosophy of the here and now\" and that Dōgen is telling us the opposite of Descartes: the mind fundamentally lacks substance, cannot exist independently of the outside world, and therefore cannot be grasped. In order to illustrate this point, Dōgen examines a kōan story about Deshan Xuanjian, a Buddhist scholar of the Diamond Sutra, who attempts to purchase rice cakes from an old woman to \"refresh his mind\". The woman asks him what mind he intends to refresh if the mind cannot be grasped, leaving him speechless. Dōgen provides suggestions for how Deshan should have responded, and also for what the woman should have said after Deshan failed to say anything.\n"}
{"id": "2252222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2252222", "title": "Simon Foucher", "text": "Simon Foucher\n\nSimon Foucher (1 March 1644 – 27 April 1696) was a French polemic philosopher. His philosophical standpoint was one of Academic skepticism: he did not agree with dogmatism, but didn't resort to Pyrrhonism, either.\n\nHe was born in Dijon, the son of a merchant, and appears to have taken holy orders at a very early age. For some years he held the position of honorary canon at Dijon, but he resigned in order to take up his residence in Paris. He graduated at the Sorbonne, having studied theology, and spent the remainder of his life in literary work in Paris, where he died.\n\nIn his day Foucher enjoyed considerable reputation as a keen opponent of Malebranche and Leibniz. He revived the old arguments of the Academy, and advanced them with much ingenuity against Malebranche's doctrine. Otherwise his skepticism is subordinate to orthodox belief, the fundamental dogmas of the church seeming to him intuitively evident. His object was to reconcile his religious with his philosophical creed, and to remain a Christian without ceasing to be an academician.\n\nIn his 1673 publication, \"Dissertation on the Search for Truth\", he brought to light people's psychological predilection for certainties. He wrote about the art of doubting—about positioning oneself between doubting and believing. He wrote, \"\"One needs to exit doubt in order to produce science—but few people heed the importance of not exiting from it prematurely...It is a fact that one usually exits doubt without realizing it.\" He wrote further, \"We are dogma-prone from our mother's wombs.\"\"\n\nFoucher had the annoying habit of re-using the same titles for his works, making it necessary to cite the whole subtitle in order to specify which work is being referred to.\n\n\nIn addition to these works, Foucher published two long poems, and a few shorter philosophical pieces. He also conducted an important correspondence with Leibniz and wrote, but never published, a play.\n"}
{"id": "45936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45936", "title": "Spirit possession", "text": "Spirit possession\n\nSpirit possession is a term for the belief that animas, aliens, demons, gods, or spirits can take control of a human body. The concept of spirit possession exists in many religions, including Christianity, Buddhism, Haitian Vodou, Wicca, Hinduism, Islam and Southeast Asian and African traditions. In a 1969 study funded by the National Institute of Mental Health, spirit possession beliefs were found to exist in 74 percent of a sample of 488 societies in all parts of the world. Depending on the cultural context in which it is found, possession may be considered voluntary or involuntary and may be considered to have beneficial or detrimental effects on the host. Within possession cults, the belief that one is possessed by spirits is more common among women than men.\n\nAccording to Augustin Calmet:\n\"The Egyptians believed that when the spirit of an animal is separated from its body by violence, it does not go to a distance, but remains near it. It is the same with the soul of a man who has died a violent death; it remains near the body—nothing can make it go away; it is retained there by sympathy; several have been seen sighing near their bodies which were interred. The magicians abuse their power over such in their incantations; they force them to obey, when they are masters of the dead body, or even part of it. Frequent experience taught them that there is a secret virtue in the body, which draws towards it the spirit which has once inhabited it; wherefore those who wish to receive or become the receptacles of the spirits of such animals as know the future, eat the principle parts of them, as the hearts of crows, moles, or hawks. The spirit of these creatures enters into them at the moment they eat this food, and makes them give out oracles like divinities.\". \"Porphyry, when consulted by Anebo, an Egyptian priest, if those who foretell the future and perform prodigies have more powerful souls, or whether they receive power from some strange spirit, replies that, according to appearance, all these things are done by means of certain evil spirits that are naturally knavish, and take all sorts of shapes, and do everything that one sees happen, whether good or evil; but that in the end they never lead men to what is truly good.\" - Treatise on the Apparitions of Spirits and on Vampires or Revenants \n\nSee Nympholepsy\n\nIn Sudan and certain East African cultures the Zār cult conducts ethnomedical healing ceremonies involving possession, typically of Muslim women by a Zār spirit. This is also found in North Africa.\n\nAmong the Gurage people of Ethiopia, spirit possession is a common belief. Wiliam A. Shack postulated that it is caused by Gurage cultural attitudes about food and hunger, while they have a plentiful food supply, cultural pressures that force the Gurage to either share it to meet social obligations, or hoard it and eat it secretly cause feelings of anxiety. Distinctions are drawn between spirits that strictly possess men, spirits that possess women, and spirits that possess victims of either sex. A ritual illness that only affects men is believed to be caused by a spirit called \"awre\". This affliction presents itself by loss of appetite, nausea, and attacks from severe stomach pains. If it persists the victim may enter a trancelike stupor, in which he sometimes regains consciousness long enough to take food and water. Breathing is often labored. Seizures and trembling overcome the patient, and in extreme cases, partial paralysis of the extremities.\n\nIf the victim does not recover naturally, a traditional healer, or \"sagwara\", is summoned. Once the sagwara has determined the spirit's name through the use of divination, he prescribes a routine formula to exorcise the spirit. This is not a permanent cure, however, it is believed to allow the victim to form a relationship with the spirit. Nevertheless, the victim is subject to chronic repossession, which is treated by repeating the formula. This formula involves the preparation and consumption of a dish of ensete, butter, and red pepper. During this ritual, the victim's head is covered with a drape, and he eats the ensete ravenously while other ritual participants participate by chanting. The ritual ends when the possessing spirit announces that it is satisfied. Shack notes that the victims are overwhelmingly poor men, and that women are not as food-deprived as men are due to ritual activities that involve food redistribution and consumption. Shack postulates that the \"awre\" serves to bring the possessed man to the center of social attention, and to relieve his anxieties over his inability to gain prestige from redistributing food, which is the primary way in which Gurage men gain status in their society.\n\nThe belief in spirit possession is part of their native culture of the Sidama people of southwest Ethiopia. Anthropologists Irene and John Hamer postulated that it is a form of compensation for being deprived within Sidama society, although they do not draw from I.M. Lewis (see Cultural anthropology section under Scientific views). The majority of the possessed are women whose spirits demand luxury goods to alleviate their condition, but men can be possessed as well. Possessed individuals of both sexes can become healers due to their condition. Hamer and Hamer suggest that this is a form of compensation among deprived men in the deeply competitive society of the Sidama, for if a man cannot gain prestige as an orator, warrior, or farmer, he may still gain prestige as a spirit healer. Women are sometimes accused of faking possession, but men never are.\n\nThe Digo people of Kenya refer to the spirits that supposedly possess them as \"shaitani\". These \"shaitani\" typically demand luxury items to make the patient well again. Despite the fact that men sometimes accuse women of faking the possessions in order to get luxury items, attention, and sympathy, they do generally regard spirit possession as a genuine condition, and view victims of it as being ill through no fault of their own. However, men sometimes suspect women of actively colluding with spirits in order to be possessed.\n\nThe Giriama people of coastal Kenya believe in spirit possession.\n\nIn Mayotte, approximately 25 percent of the adult population, and five times as many women as men, enter trance states in which they are supposedly possessed by certain identifiable spirits who maintain stable and coherent identities from one possession to the next.\n\nIn Mozambique, a new belief in spirit possession appeared after the Mozambican Civil War. These spirits, called \"gamba\", are said to be identified as dead soldiers, and allegedly overwhelmingly possess women. Prior to the war, spirit possession was limited to certain families and was less common.\n\nIn Uganda, a woman named Alice Auma was reportedly possessed by the spirit of a male Italian soldier named Lakwena, meaning messenger. She had ultimately led a failed insurrection against governmental forces.\n\nA belief in spirit possession appears among the Xesibe, a Xhosa speaking people from Transkei, South Africa. The majority of the supposedly possessed are married women. The condition of spirit possession among them is called \"inwatso\". Those who develop the condition of \"inwatso\" are regarded as having a special calling to divine the future. They are first treated with sympathy, and then with respect as they allegedly develop their abilities to foretell the future.\n\nThe Sukuma people of Tanzania believe in spirit possession.\n\nA now extinct spirit possession cult existed among the Hadimu women of Zanzibar, revering a spirit called \"kitimiri\". This cult described in an 1869 account by a French missionary. The cult faded by the 1920s and was virtually unknown by the 1960s.\n\nSee Hausa animism\n\nIn Haitian Vodou and related African diaspora traditions, one way that those who participate or practice can have a spiritual experience is by being possessed by the \"Loa\" (or \"lwa\"). When the \"loa\" descends upon a practitioner, the practitioner's body is being used by the spirit, according to the tradition. Some spirits are believed to be able to give prophecies of upcoming events or situations pertaining to the possessed one, also called \"Chwal\" or the \"Horse of the Spirit.\" Practitioners describe this as a beautiful but very tiring experience. Most people who are possessed by the spirit describe the onset as a feeling of blackness or energy flowing through their body as if they were being electrocuted. According to Vodou believers, when this occurs, it is a sign that a possession is about to take place.\n\nAccording to tradition, the practitioner has no recollection of the possession and in fact when the possessing spirit leaves the body, the possessed one is tired and wonders what has happened during the possession. It is also believed that there are those who feign possessions because they want attention or a feeling of importance, because those who are possessed carry a high importance in ceremony. Often, a \"chwal\" will undergo some form of trial or testing to make sure that the possession is allegedly genuine. As an example, someone possessed by one of the Guédé spirits may be offered \"piment\", a liqueur made by steeping twenty-one chili peppers in \"kleren\", a potent alcoholic beverage. If the chwal consumes the piment without showing any evidence of pain or discomfort, the possession is regarded as genuine.\n\nThe concept of spirit possession is also found in Umbanda, an Afro-Brazilian folk religion. According to tradition, one such possessing spirit is Pomba Gira, who possesses both women and effeminate males.\n\nAccording to the Indian medical literature and Tantric Buddhist scriptures, most of the \"seizers,\" or those that threaten the lives of young children, appear in animal form: cow, lion, fox, monkey, horse, dog, pig, cat, crow, pheasant, owl, and snake. But apart from these \"nightmare shapes,\" it is believed the impersonation or incarnation of animals could in some circumstances also be highly beneficial, according to Michel Strickmann.\n\nCh'i Chung-fu, a Chinese gynecologist writing early in the thirteenth century, wrote that in addition to five sorts of falling frenzy classified according to their causative factors, there were also four types of other frenzies distinguished by the sounds and movements given off by the victim during his seizure: cow, horse, pig, and dog frenzies.\n\nCertain sects of Taoism, Korean shamanism, Shinto, some Japanese new religious movements, and other East Asian religions feature the idea of spirit possession. Some sects feature shamans who supposedly become possessed, or mediums who allegedly channel beings' supernatural power, or enchanters who it is said imbue or foster spirits within objects, like samurai swords. The Hong Kong film \"Super Normal II\" (\"大迷信\", 1993) shows the famous story of a woman in Taiwan who possesses a dead body to live her predeterminated remaining life. She is still working in the Zhen Tian Temple in Yunlin County.\n\nSee Chinese spirit possession, Shi (personator)\n\nSee Shamanism of the Solon People\n\nThe concept of spirit possession exists in the culture of modern Rajasthan. Some of the spirits allegedly possessing Rajasthanis are seen as good and beneficial, while others are seen as malevolent. The good spirits are said to include murdered royalty, the underworld god Bhaironji, and Muslim saints & fakirs. Bad spirits are believed to include perpetual debtors who die in debt, stillborn infants, deceased widows, and foreign tourists. The supposedly possessed individual is referred to as a \"ghorala\", or \"mount\". Possession, even if by a benign spirit, is regarded as undesirable, as it is seen to entail loss of self-control, and violent emotional outbursts.\n\nTamil women in India are said to experience possession by \"peye\" spirits. According to tradition, these spirits overwhelmingly possess new brides, are usually identified as the ghosts of young men who died while romantically or sexually frustrated, and are ritually exorcised.\n\nThe animist traditions of the island of Bali (Indonesia) include a practice called \"sanghyang\", induction of voluntary possession trance states for specific purposes. Roughly similar to voluntary possession in Vaudon (Voodoo), \"sanghyang\" is considered a sacred state in which hyangs (deities) or helpful spirits temporarily inhabit the bodies of participants. The purpose of sanghyang is believed to be to cleanse people and places of evil influences and restore spiritual balance. Thus, it is often referred to as an exorcism ceremony.\n\nThe women of the Bonerate people of Sulawesi, Indonesia practice a possession-trance ritual in which they smother glowing embers with their bare feet at the climax. The fact that they are not burned in the process is considered proof of the authenticity of the possession.\n\nSee Misaki\n\nFemale workers in Malaysian factories have allegedly become possessed by spirits, and factory owners generally regard it as mass hysteria and an intrusion of irrational and archaic beliefs into a modern setting.\n\nThe anthropologist Aihwa Ong noted that spirit possession beliefs in Malaysia were typically held by older, married women, whereas the female factory workers are typically young and unmarried. She connects this to the rapid industrialization and modernization of Malaysia. Ong argued that spirit possession is a traditional way of rebelling against authority without punishment, and suggests that it is a means of protesting the untenable working conditions and sexual harassment that the women were compelled to endure.\n\nThe Coast Veddas, a social group within the minority group of Sri Lankan Tamil people in Eastern Province, Sri Lanka, enter trances during religious festivals in which they are regarded as being possessed by a spirit. Although they speak a dialect of Tamil, during trances they will sometimes use a mixed language that contains words from the Vedda language.\n\nThe Urapmin people of the New Guinea Highlands practice a form of group possession known as the \"spirit disco\" (Tok Pisin: \"spirit disko\"). Men and women gather in church buildings, dancing in circles and jumping up and down while women sing Christian songs; this is called \"pulling the [Holy] spirit\" (Tok Pisin: \"pulim spirit\", Urap: \"Sinik dagamin\"). The songs' melodies are borrowed from traditional women's songs sung at drum dances (Urap: \"wat dalamin\"), and the lyrics are typically in Telefol or other Mountain Ok languages. If successful, some dancers will \"get the spirit\" (Tok Pisin: \"kisim spirit\"), flailing wildly and careening about the dance floor. After an hour or more, those possessed will collapse, the singing will end, and the spirit disco will end with a prayer and, if there is time, a Bible reading and sermon. The body is believed to normally be \"heavy\" (Urapmin: \"ilum\") with sin, and possession is the process of the Holy Spirit throwing the sins from one's body, making the person \"light\" (\"fong\") again. This is a completely new ritual for the Urapmin, who have no indigenous tradition of spirit-possession.\n\nThe concept of spirit possession appears in Chuuk State, one of the four states of Federated States of Micronesia. Although Chuuk is an overwhelmingly Christian society, traditional beliefs in spirit possession by the dead still exist, usually held by women, and \"events\" are usually brought on by family conflicts. The supposed spirits, speaking through the women, typically admonish family members to treat each other better.\n\nRoman Catholic doctrine states that angels are non-corporeal, spiritual beings with intelligence and will. Fallen angels, or demons, are able to \"demonically possess\" individuals without the victim's knowledge or consent, leaving them morally blameless.\n\nSpirit possession appears in Islamic theology and tradition. Jinn are said to be creatures with free will, made from smokeless fire by God (Arabic: Allah) with the ability to possess humans. Since they are, unlike the demons (\"shayāṭīn\"), are morally ambivalent, spirit possession is not necessarily harmful. According to Morrocan belief, a jinn-possessed may acquire supernatural powers. Other jinn may possess humans with no harmfull intents, but because they fell in love with an individual. In this case, it is tried to appease the jinn. At an intented possession, the covenant with the jinn must be renewed. According to traditional beliefs, the possessed person speaks differently and acts in a strange and sometimes violent manner. One verse in the Quran describes that on judgment day, the behavior of those who earn high interest on loans \"as if they were possessed or controlled by a satan\". Exorcism and removal of jinn from possessed people is done by a religious person.\n\nAlthough forbidden in the Hebrew Bible, magic was widely practiced in the late Second Temple Period and well documented in the period following the destruction of the Temple into the 3rd, 4th, and 5th centuries C.E. In Jewish folklore, a dybbuk is a disembodied spirit that wanders restlessly until it inhabits the body of a living person. The Baal Shem could expel the harmful dybbuk through exorcism.\nJewish magical papyri were inscriptions on amulets, ostraca and incantation bowls used in Jewish magical practices against shedim and other unclean spirits.\n\nWiccans believe in voluntary possession by the Goddess, connected with the sacred ceremony of Drawing Down the Moon. The high priestess solicits the Goddess to possess her and speak through her.\n\nThe anthropologist I.M. Lewis noted that women are more likely to be involved in spirit possession cults than men are, and postulated that such cults act as a means of compensation for their exclusion from other spheres within their respective cultures.\n\nAnthropologists Alice B. Kehoe and Dody H. Giletti argued that the reason that women are more commonly seen in Afro-Eurasian spirit possession cults is because of deficiencies in thiamine, tryptophan-niacin, calcium, and vitamin D. They argued that a combination of poverty and food taboos cause this problem, and that it is exacerbated by the strains of pregnancy and lactation. They postulated that the involuntary symptoms of these deficiencies affecting their nervous systems have been institutionalized as spirit possession.\n\nSpirit possession is not recognized as a psychiatric or medical diagnosis by the DSM-IV or the ICD-10. People alleged to be possessed by spirits sometimes exhibit symptoms similar to those associated with mental illnesses such as psychosis, hysteria, mania, Tourette's syndrome, epilepsy, schizophrenia, or dissociative identity disorder, including involuntary, uncensored behavior, and an extra-human, extra-social aspect to the individual's actions. In cases of dissociative identity disorder in which the alter personality is questioned as to its identity, 29 percent are reported to identify themselves as demons. Physicians regard this as a mental disease called demonomania or demonopathy, a monomania in which the patient believes that he or she is possessed by one or more demons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7837125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7837125", "title": "Sylvia Wynter", "text": "Sylvia Wynter\n\nThe Honourable Sylvia Wynter, O.J. (born 11 May 1928) is a Jamaican novelist, dramatist, critic, philosopher, and essayist.\n\nSylvia Wynter was born in Cuba to actress Lola Maude (Reid) Wynter and tailor Percival Wynter. At the age of two she returned to her home country, Jamaica, with her parents (both born there) and was educated at the St. Andrew High School for Girls. In 1946, she was awarded the Jamaica Centenary Scholarship for Girls, which took her to King's College London, to read for her B.A. in modern languages (Spanish) from 1947 to 1951. She was awarded the M.A. in December 1953 for her thesis, a critical edition of a Spanish comedia, \"Á lo que obliga el honor\".\n\nIn 1956, Wynter met the Guyanese novelist Jan Carew, who became her second husband. In 1958, she completed \"Under the Sun\", a full-length stage play, which was bought by the Royal Court Theatre in London. In 1962, Wynter published her only novel, \"The Hills of Hebron\". \n\nAfter separating from Carew in the early 1960s, Wynter returned to academia, and in 1963, was appointed assistant lecturer in Hispanic literature at the Mona campus of the University of the West Indies. She remained there until 1974. During this time the Jamaican government commissioned her to write the play \"1865–A Ballad for a Rebellion,\" about the Morant Bay rebellion, and a biography of Sir Alexander Bustamante, the first prime minister of independent Jamaica.\n\nIn 1974, Wynter was invited by the Department of Literature at the University of California at San Diego to be a professor of Comparative and Spanish Literature and to lead a new program in Third World literature. She left UCSD in 1977 to become chairperson of African and Afro-American Studies, and professor of Spanish in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese at Stanford University. She is now Professor Emerita at Stanford University.\n\nIn the mid- to late-1960s, Wynter began writing critical essays addressing her interests in Caribbean, Latin American, and Spanish history and literatures. In 1968 and 1969 she published a two-part essay proposing to transform scholars' very approach to literary criticism, \"We Must Learn to Sit Down Together and Talk About a Little Culture: Reflections on West Indian Writing and Criticism.\" Wynter has since written numerous essays in which she seeks to rethink the fullness of human ontologies, which, she argues, have been curtailed by what she describes as an over-representation of (western bourgeois) Man as if it/he were the only available mode of complete humanness. She suggests how multiple knowledge sources and texts might frame our worldview differently.\n\nIn 2010, Sylvia Wynter was awarded the Order of Jamaica (OJ) for services in the fields of education, history, and culture.\n\nSylvia Wynter’s scholarly work is highly poetic, expository, and complex. Her work attempts to elucidate the development and maintenance of modernity and the modern man. She interweaves science, philosophy, literary theory, and critical race theory to explain how the European man came to be considered the epitome of humanity, “Man 2” or “the figure of man.” In “Unsettling the Coloniality of Being/Power/Truth/Freedom: Towards the Human, After Man, Its Overrepresentation—An Argument,” Wynter explains that the West uses race to attempt to answer the questions of who and what we are—particularly after the enlightenment period that unveils religion as incapable of answering those questions.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18434039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18434039", "title": "Theology and Science", "text": "Theology and Science\n\nTheology and Science is the journal of the Center for Theology and the Natural Sciences. It has a stated dedication to peer-reviewed articles on religion and science. The co-editors are Ted Peters and Robert John Russell. It is published by Routledge. The first volume was published in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "24575924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24575924", "title": "Tim Dean", "text": "Tim Dean\n\nTim Dean is a British philosopher, author, notable in the field of contemporary queer theory, and author of several works on the subject: \"Gary Snyder and the American Unconscious\" (1991), \"Beyond Sexuality\" (2000), and \"Unlimited Intimacy: Reflections on the Subculture of Barebacking\" (2009), all published by the University of Chicago Press, and a co-editor of \"Homosexuality and Psychoanalysis\" (2001).\n\nDean first became a British civil servant before attending the University of East Anglia, during which time he participated in a Junior Year Abroad program at Brandeis University, and wrote his undergraduate dissertation on Gary Snyder before graduating BA with First Class Honours in American Studies. He subsequently earned his PhD at Johns Hopkins University (doctoral dissertation on Hart Crane). He was a Fellow at the Stanford Humanities Center (1997-1998). He teaches at the University of Illinois (Urbana-Champaign).\n"}
{"id": "34747847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34747847", "title": "Yi Jehyeon", "text": "Yi Jehyeon\n\nYi Jehyeon (Korean: 이제현, hanja: 李齊賢, 1287–1367) was a politician and early Korean Neo-Confucianism scholar and philosopher, writer, and poet. His first name was Jigong (Korean:지공, hanja:之公). A pen name was Ikjae (익재, 益齋)·Yeogong (역옹, 櫟翁)·Shiljae (실재, 實齋), courtesy name was Jungsa (중사, 仲思). He was a follower and successor of Baek Yijeong (백이정, 白頤正), and was the father of Hyebi Yi, who was a concubine of Gongmin of Goryeo.\n"}
