{"id": "57051112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57051112", "title": "2017 Chomutov incident", "text": "2017 Chomutov incident\n\nIn the 2017 Chomutov incident, a 37-year-old man believed that a vehicular rampage was taking place in front of his home and in an effort to stop it, he shot the 34 year old driver dead. The subsequent investigation and court case attracted significant public attention mainly due to issues related to the limits of legitimate self-defense and defensive gun use in the Czech Republic.\n\nIn months and years preceding the incident, Europe has seen a number of vehicular terror attacks against pedestrians (2014 Dijon, 2014 Nantes, 2016 Nice, 2016 Berlin, 2017 Westminster, 2017 Stockholm). While no similar terror attack had taken place directly in the Czech Republic, the 1973 vehicular rampage perpetrated by Olga Hepnarová remains to this day the largest mass murder in the country (with 20 victims, of them 8 fatal).\n\nThe Czech Republic issues concealed carry permits, in which private firearm possession is seen as one way to provide public safety, especially when it comes to soft target protection at the time of increased terror risk. There are 240,000 civilians licensed to carry concealed firearms. However, it is unknown how many of them actually regularly do so. Following a wave of terror attacks around Europe, a number of politicians as well as security professionals started urging gun owners to actually carry firearms in order to be able to contribute to soft targets protection. These included, among many others, President Miloš Zeman as well as Libor Lochman, Chief of URNA, the country's main special forces anti-terrorism unit.\n\nCzech courts had previously ruled that a car constitutes a weapon in case it is intentionally used against a person, even when driven slowly and with no injuries caused. Under Czech law, a firearm may be used for self-defense in case that its use is not \"manifestly disproportionate to the manner of attack\".\n\nThe initial police report describes the incident that took place at 3 AM on 27 May 2017 as follows: \"A man (b. 1980) heard a loud noise from the street in the night, and from his window situated in a block of appartments he saw a van that was crashing into parked cars and driving into people assembled on the pathwalk in front of the house. He immediately took his legally owned firearm and went outside, where he opened fire towards the van that was passing by his side. The driver (born 1983) was hit by several bullets and suffered serious injuries that proved fatal. The suspect awaited arrival of police and admitted to the shooting.\" Media reported that one woman had her leg run over by the driver, while several parked cars were damaged.\n\nThe shooter was charged with murder and remanded in jail pending police interviews with witnesses (whereby maximum length of remand is 3 months). The state attorney petitioned court to remand the shooter also for fear of avoiding trial, which would allow jailing him for more than 3 months, however court refused that and state attorney did not challenge that decision. He was released from custody on 14 August 2017 to await trial.\n\nThe shooter was identified by media as a 37 year old Petr Benda., an ethnically white Czech former prison guard that works as a warehouseman. He had owned the firearm legally since 2002.\n\nThe shooter claimed that he acted in defense of self and others. He is represented by Jiří Pašek, a local attorney.\n\nThe driver was identified by media as a 34 year old \"Radek Š.\", a Czech citizen of Romani ethnicity that lived in the Netherlands and who was visiting his relatives in Chomutov. At the time of his death, the driver was under influence of both alcohol and drugs.\n\nMedia brought reports of uneasy relations between ethnic Czechs and Romanis at the apartment complex where the incident took place as well as information about possible racist motive of the shooting, which the police however denied.\n\nState Attorney Vladimír Jan indicted the shooter on 6 February 2018 on charges of premeditated murder and damage to property; if found guilty, the shooter may face 12 to 20 years imprisonment. According to Jan, the shooter did not act in legitimate defense as the shooting happened after the danger elapsed (there were no more people in the driving path of the car).\n\nAccording to the indictment, the driver was returning home from a nightclub and an uncle, who was under influence of drugs, stopped him in front of the shooter's house. They engaged in a quarrel. Afterward, the driver attempted to drive away, a group of his relatives was trying to stop him. In an attempt to drive away from the crowd, the driver hit several cars and was driving on the footpath in front of the shooter's house. By that moment the police had already received several calls from concerned citizens and dispatched a unit there.\n\nThe shooter was alerted by his mother who told him that a driver was hitting cars and people in front of their house and after a brief look out of the window, he ran outside with gun in hand. The van was driving 7 to 8 km/h on the footpath with no obstacle or people further in its way. At that moment, the shooter engaged the driver with at least 13 shots from his 9mm Beretta Px4 Storm, hitting him 8 times. The driver was shot in the front torso, leg, side as well as back and died shortly afterward.\n\nState attorney further clarified that media reports of shooter's racial slurs were not corroborated by any witness statements, and that the case has no racial underline.\n\nThe victim's family sought damages in amount of CZK 5 million (USD 250,000).\n\nIn his opening statement, the shooter claimed that he intended to protect the people outside: \"My mother told me that there is some lunatic outside. I looked out of the window and I saw a car driving back and forth. At one moment the car very closely missed a group of people. I heard a lot of screaming. I will remember that screaming forever. I recalled all those repulsive car attacks from other countries and decided to go out and help those people.\" He claimed he started shooting when the van drove in his direction. The shooter apologized to the driver's family, saying that he wishes the incident had a different outcome, however that he does not feel guilty of committing a murder.\n\nA witness testified that he \"saw someone driving in a van on a parking lot. It was clear from the driving style that the driver was off. Some woman started screaming that he ran over her legs. He was driving into cars as well as into people.\" According to another witness, someone was shouting \"he drove him off, he probably killed him. I was thinking what a madman, he is driving people over and hitting cars.\" The shooter's mother said that from her window, it seemed that the car is trying to drive into a crowd of people: \"When I saw my son with pistol in hand I told him not to do anything. Then I called the police, I didn't even realize he left, and then I only heard the shots.\"\n\nAccording to the driver's father's testimony, the driver was walking his dog when he was engaged by his uncle. They brawled, and afterwards he got into the car and tried to drive away: \"He was driving very slowly, maybe he intended to stop, he wasn't endangering anyone, and at that moment Benda came out of the house and shot entire magazine.\" According to driver's mother written testimony, the same person who was shooting previously shouted from windows from high above racial slurs. The shooter denied that, commenting that he did not say a single word during the entire incident.\n\nAccording to a psychologist, the shooter has a high moral standard. He feels sorry for the driver's death, however at the same time he is convinced that the given situation required what he did.\n\nA municipal policeman that first arrived to the scene testified that Benda told him that he had shot at the van in self-defense and surrendered the firearm. As more and more Romanis were coming to the scene shouting death threats in the shooter's direction, he took him away. Immediately after the incident, the shooter told the policeman that the car had been driving towards him when he opened fire. The shooter was sober and fully cooperated.\nAnother witness, driver's uncle, testified that the driver got into the car after a quarrel, and drove the car against his (uncle's) girlfriend. The car hit her and knocked her down. Then the driver crashed into several parked cars, which was followed by the gunshots.\n\nDriver's brother, who was wearing a belly chain and who was escorted by four prison guards as he was serving prison sentence for unrelated crime at the time of the hearing, testified that the driver was a successful freelance businessman in the Netherlands and that he came to Chomutov with the aim of purchasing a flat for their mother.\n\nIn his closing statement, the shooter said that \"going out was my first mistake, I was a naive fool that wanted to help people. The second mistake was the shooting itself. Had I not been so frightened, had I handled the situation in a psychologically and physically better way, it could have had different ending. I am sorry, I did not mean to kill him, but I don't feel guilty of anything.\"\n\nOn 17 April 2018, the court found the shooter guilty of premeditated murder and sentenced the shooter to 12.5 years imprisonment. After release, the shooter shall be prohibited from possessing a firearm for further 10 years. The court also awarded CZK 2.5 million (USD 125,000) to the driver's relatives. The judge said that \"in the moment when the defendant came outside, he did nothing to assess whether there is any imminent threat, he immediately started shooting and emptied his entire magazine into the car. At the moment of the shooting, the car was not endangering the defendant, nor anybody else. Thus, the shooter used his firearm without any cause, unjustifiably, and he must have done so with intent to kill. When shooting entire magazine at the driver's doors and seeing the driver inside, the defendant must have been aware the 9mm rounds will easily penetrate the doors and cause a potentially deadly injury.\"\n\nThe shooter lodged appeal against the verdict. The appeal was heard by the High Court in Prague which changed the conviction to murder without premeditation and sentenced the shooter to 7 years imprisonment.\n\nThe High Court overruled the original decision in several key areas:\n\nBoth the shooter and the Supreme State Attorney lodged an appeal against the decision. The appeal will be decided by the Supreme Court in Brno.\n\n"}
{"id": "19222262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19222262", "title": "Armenians in Bahrain", "text": "Armenians in Bahrain\n\nThe Armenians in Bahrain are people of Armenian descent living in Bahrain. Though no concise data is available, some have estimated that there are around 10 Armenian families living in the country, predominantly in the capital Manama. Others state that the population is around 100 people. They come from Lebanon and Syria, attracted by the economic opportunities provided by the country.\n\nThe Armenians in Bahrain are Armenian Apostolics (Orthodox Armenians) belonging to the Armenian Apostolic Church and under the jurisdiction of the Holy See of Cilicia. The Catholicossate of the Great House of Cilicia (also known as the Holy See of Cilicia) has established the \"Diocese of Kuwait and the Arabian Gulf Countries\" headquartered in Kuwait, but also serving the Armenians in the Persian Gulf including Bahrain.\n\nThe first Armenian Mass was held on 10 December 2004, in Manama, by the Archbishop Goriun Babian who heads the Armenian community in the UAE.\n"}
{"id": "806420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=806420", "title": "Ayub Shah Durrani", "text": "Ayub Shah Durrani\n\nAyub Shah, a son of Timur Shah, ruled Afghanistan from 1819 to 1823. Second oldest son of Timor Shah. He killed his brother Ali Shah for the throne. He only ruled two years, holding off his own brothers and the Barakzai and Indian tribes from nearby. He was imprisoned by the Barakzai and his brother took the throne. Shortly losing it to Barakzai.\n"}
{"id": "28203968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28203968", "title": "Aṣíkò", "text": "Aṣíkò\n\nAṣíkò (Ashiko) is a musical genre similar to sákárà music from Nigeria, West Africa. Aṣíkò was the Christian version of sákárà (Sakara). It developed originally as a type of\nsyncretic street drumming in port towns throughout Anglophone West Africa. By the 1920s it was also played by musicians inland in Yoruba towns like Abęokuta and Ibadan. Isaac O. Delano gives a detailed description of an aṣíkò ensemble in the 1930s:\n\n\"Another popular native dance is the \"Ashiko\". It is not a Yoruba dance in its origin, but was imported from Sierra Leone or somewhere that way. The \"Ashiko\" dance is chiefly performed by Christian people, and has only one kind of music, rather quicker than the \"Sakara\" . . . and resembles a fox-trot. No stringed instruments are employed, only drums and carpenter's saw, used occasionally to make a kind of noise on its sharp edge, as an embellishment to \"Ashiko\" drum music. Sometimes a bottle is also used, a nail beating time on it, for the same purpose. The drummers, five in number, all beat similar drums, and produce a continuous volume of music. The dancing is done by pairs, two ladies and two gentlemen facing each other. The drummers sing as in the \"Sakara\" dance with chorus boys, but no one else sings with them (Delano [1937] 1973:157).\"\n\nAṣíkò music has its origins in the music of Sierra Leonean repatriates, from the West Indian colonies, who themselves had been influenced by Afro-Brazilian samba music. The wooden frame drums used in aṣíkò music and the carpenter's saw, were introduced by the Aguda, who introduced modern carpentry techniques to the Yoruba artisans. Often, elderly informants use the terms aṣíkò and sámbà interchangeably. \"John Collins writes that a social dance genre called aṣíkò was popular in Accra, the capital of the Gold Coast Colony before World War I (Collins 1977:54).\" Other influences are also possible from Dahomean, Liberian and West Indian immigrants.\n\nLagos was a breeding ground for young Christian musicians playing aṣíkò music. They developed and rehearsed their own versions of holiday songs, for various festivals around Christmas, etc. Then when the day arrived they would take to the streets and compete. With the elders as judges, the best group would take home a cash prize. The aṣíkò drum, a square frame drum, complete with tuning pegs, was perfect for marching in a parade. It was hand held, lightweight and easy to play with one hand. The drums are made in different sizes and played using interlocking rhythms, which create a driving beat that's difficult to resist as the band marches through the streets.\n\nDelano noted European musical influences, since there's no call and response tradition within this genre. The drummers themselves are the singers.\n\nThe success of these amateur aṣíkò groups resulted in a number of them becoming full-time professional bands, which eventually entered the recording studios allowing them to reach a larger audience and become quite popular. Musicians such as A.B.O. Mabinuori, Amusa (otherwise known as 'Captain'), Jero, Tesilimi, Samu Egbo (\"Samu Esu\"), Ajayi Williams (alias \"Ajayi Koboko\") and Alabi Labilu are just a few of the most popular aṣíkò bandleaders.\n\nThis syncretized music was the perfect match for the newly indoctrinated Christian converts of the day, because it incorporated \"foreign\" instruments with no ties to traditional religious practices; lyrical poetic song texts promoting Christianity over the òrìṣà (traditional religion) and the songs were sung in either Yoruba or Nigerian Pidgin English, which made them accessible to a large cross-section of the population.\n\nAs the music grew in popularity the song texts began to change, as well. By the late 1920s songs could be heard about important social events, historical events, current events and low-status occupations, like prostitution, etc.\n\nExamples of aṣíkò can be found on CD, as well as sákárà music, it's Islamic counterpart.\n\nNigerian musician Babatunde Olatunji incorporated many of these elements into his music. The samba rhythm was one of his favorites, heard on many of his albums. Much like the rhythm of James Brown identified him and his music; the samba rhythms identify the music of Olatunji. Typically, he did not use sets of drums, but rather created batteries of drums. For instance, atsimevu, djembe, congas and dunun would be played together. In the latter part of his career he also introduced a drum, now identified with him, the Boku drum from Cuba, under the name aṣíkò (ashiko). For most American drummers this is the ashiko drum, as opposed to the hand held relative of the Spanish Pandeiro. In light of his Yoruba origins and Christian upbringing, it all makes sense. As we look at his recordings we see everything from songs like Bethlehemu to Shango and from Sahara Samba to Mbira which features, not Mbira as we know it but rather, a Cuban style Marimbula or Agidigbo as it is known in Nigeria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38060323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38060323", "title": "Bernard Chunga Tribunal", "text": "Bernard Chunga Tribunal\n\nThe Bernard Chunga Tribunal was a tribunal set up to investigate the then Chief Justice Bernard Chunga. \n\nPresident Mwai Kibaki established a tribunal which was going to probe allegations that he: \n\nThe tribunal consisted of: \n\nJustice Chunga resigned prior to facing the tribunal.\n\n"}
{"id": "48370516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48370516", "title": "Bernard Slicher van Bath", "text": "Bernard Slicher van Bath\n\nBernard Hendrik Slicher, since 1933 calling himself Slicher van Bath, was a Dutch social historian, best known internationally for his 1960 work \"The agrarian history of Western Europe, AD 500–1850\" and regarded as the initiator of quantitative social history in his native country.\n\nSlicher commenced his studies in history at the Rijksuniversiteit Groningen in 1930 and moved to Utrecht in 1934 where he studied under the German medievalist Otto Oppermann. Having graduated in 1936, he took an assistant position with Oppermann, typing the professor's manuscripts and maintaining his library, which brought him into contact with the journal \"Annales d'histoire économique et sociale\". Slicher van Bath then worked for some time as an archivist in Gelderland, being able to avoid conscription as a former sufferer of polio, and returned to Oppermann's service in 1941. Oppermann's research interests took an ever more ideological turn toward national socialism; when he suggested, in 1942, that Slicher should research the Dutch role in the \"Ostsiedlung\", Slicher quit his job.\n\nDuring the war time, Slicher van Bath pursued a doctorate degree, initially with Oppermann but soon with the Amsterdam-based historian Jan Romein, visiting Romein at his home and later at his hiding place. The thesis was finished in 1944, the doctorate degree awarded half a year after the end of World War II in November 1945.\n\nSlicher van Bath finally settled in Wageningen, where he was appointed special professor in agrarian history and formed what was termed the \"Wageningen school\" of quantitative history (a label that Slicher vehemently rejected, not wishing to be constrained by the methods of any particular \"school\"). At the request of the Cambridge Economic History of Europe's editorial board, Slicher van Bath wrote \"The agrarian history of Western Europe, AD 500–1850\", his \"magnum opus\" (initially published in Dutch as \"De agrarische geschiedenis van West-Europa (500-1850)\", 1960). The book got him a guest professorship at the University of Chicago (1967–68), where Slicher van Bath became interested in the methods of the new economic history and shifted his attention to the history of Latin America. The history of this continent, rather than Annales-style regional studies of the Netherlands and Western Europe, would be his primary research topic until his 1975 retirement.\n"}
{"id": "36492342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36492342", "title": "Cappadocian Greeks", "text": "Cappadocian Greeks\n\nCappadocian Greeks also known as Greek Cappadocians (; ) or simply Cappadocians are a Greek community native to the geographical region of Cappadocia in central-eastern Anatolia, roughly the Nevşehir Province and surrounding provinces of modern Turkey. There had been a continuous Greek presence in Cappadocia since antiquity, and the native Indo-European populations of Cappadocia, some of whose languages (cf. Phrygian) may have been closely related to Greek, were entirely Greek in their language and culture by at least the 5th century. Following the terms of the Greek–Turkish population exchange of 1923 the remaining Cappadocian Greek natives were forced to leave their homeland and resettle in modern Greece. Today their descendants can be found throughout Greece and the Greek diaspora worldwide.\n\nThe area known as Cappadocia today was known to the Ancient Persians as \"Katpatuka\", a name which the Greeks altered into Kappadokia (Cappadocia).\n\nBefore Greeks and Greek culture arrived in Asia Minor, the area was controlled by another Indo-European people, the Hittites. Mycenaean Greeks set up trading posts along the west coast around 1300 B.C. and soon started colonizing the coasts, spreading Hellenic culture and language. In the Hellenistic era, following the conquest of Anatolia by Alexander the Great, Greek settlers began arriving in the mountainous regions of Cappadocia at this time. This Greek population movement of the 3rd and 2nd centuries BC solidified a Greek presence in Cappadocia. As a result, Greek became the lingua franca of the region's natives. It would become the sole spoken language of the region's inhabitants within three centuries and would remain so for the next one thousand years.\n\nAfter the death of Alexander the Great, Eumenes of Cardia, one of the Diadochi of Alexander the Great, was appointed satrap of Cappadocia, where he set up Greek settlements and distributed cities to his associates. Eumenes left behind administrators, judges and selected garrison commanders in Cappadocia. In the following centuries the Seleucid Greek Kings founded many Greek settlements in the interior of Asia Minor, and this region would become popular for the recruitment of soldiers. Unlike other regions of Asia Minor where Greeks would settle in cities, most of the Greek settlements in Cappadocia and other interior Anatolian regions were villages. The Hellenistic Kings would make new Greek settlements in Cappadocia and other surrounding regions in order to secure their hold on this volatile region, under their rule Greek settlements would increase in the Anatolian interior.\n\nIn the centuries following Alexander the Great's death, Ariarathes, the son of a Persian satrap who formerly controlled Cappadocia, gained control of Cappadocia and left it to a line of his successors, who mostly bore the name of the founder of the dynasty. These kings began to intermarry with neighboring Greek Hellenistic kingdoms, such as the Seleucids. During their reign Greek towns were beginning to appear in the southern regions of Cappadocia. Ariarathes V of Cappadocia who reigned from 163 to 130 BC is considered to have been the greatest of the Kings of Cappadocia. He was predominantly Greek by descent, his father Ariarathes IV of Cappadocia was half Greek Macedonian and Persian and his mother was Antiochis, was the daughter of the Seleucid Greek King Antiochus III of the Seleucid dynasty. By the 1st century BC, regions of Cappadocia had been ravaged by Armenian King Tigranes the Great, who had relocated a great number of Cilician and Cappadocian Greeks to Mesopotamia (geographically in modern Iraq, eastern Syria and south-eastern Turkey.)\n\nArchelaus who was a Roman client prince was the last to rule as a king of Cappadocia. He was a Cappadocian Greek nobleman, possibly of Macedonian descent and was the first king of Cappadocia of wholly non-Persian blood. He ruled over Cappadocia for many years before being deposed by Tiberius who took possession of Cappadocia for Rome. The region of Cappadocia produced some notable Greek individuals in antiquity, such as Apollonius of Tyana (1st century ad) who was a Greek Neo-Pythagorean philosopher who became well known in the Roman Empire and Aretaeus of Cappadocia (81-138 AD) who was a native Greek, born in Cappadocia and is considered to have been one of the foremost surgeons on antiquity. He was the first to distinguish between diabetes mellitus and diabetes insipidus, and the first to provide a detailed description of an asthma attack.\nBy late antiquity the Cappadocian Greeks had largely converted to Christianity. They were so thoroughly devout to Christianity that by the 1st century AD, the region of Cappadocia served as a stronghold for Christian Monasticism and was of significance importance in the history of early Christianity. In the early centuries of the Common Era Cappadocia produced three prominent Greek patristic figures, known as \"the three hierarchs\". They were Basil the Great (c. 330-79), Bishop of Caesarea in Cappadocia. Gregory of Nazianzus (c.330-c.389 AD) (later known as Saint Gregory the Theologian) and Gregory of Nyssa (died c. 394). These Cappadocian Greek fathers of the fourth century revered the ancient Greek cultural pursuit of virtue, even studying Homer and Hesiod and “\"stood squarely in the tradition of Greek culture\"”.\n\nBy the fifth century the last of the Indo-European native languages of Anatolia ceased to be spoken, replaced by Koine Greek. At the same time the Greek communities of central Anatolia were becoming actively involved in affairs of the Byzantine Empire and some Greek Cappadocians such as Maurice Tiberius (r.582-602) and Heraclius would even serve as Emperors.\n\nThe region became a key Byzantine military district after the advent of Islam and the subsequent Muslim conquest of Syria led to the establishment of a militarized frontier zone (cf \"kleisoura\" and \"thughur\") on the border of Cappadocia. This lasted from the mid-7th to the 10th century during the Arab–Byzantine wars, immortalized in Digenis Akritas, the Medieval Greek heroic epic set in this frontier region. During this period Cappadocia became crucial to the empire and produced numerous Byzantine generals, notably the Phokas clan, warlords (see Karbeas of Tephrike), and intrigue, most importantly the Paulician heresy. Because they were living in such a volatile region, the Cappadocian Greeks created elaborate underground cities in the volcanic formations of eastern Cappadocia and would take refuge in them during times of danger. The Cappadocian Greeks hid in these rock-cut underground towns from many raiders over the next millennium, from 9th century Arab invaders to 11th century Turkish conquerors to 15th century Mongols. As late as the 20th century the local Cappadocian Greeks were still using the underground cities as refuges (Greek: καταφύγια) from periodic waves of Ottoman persecution. The most famous of these ancient underground cities are at the Cappadocian Greek villages of Anaku-Inegi (Ανακού) and Malakopi-Melagob (Μαλακοπή). The Greeks were removed from these villages in 1923, and they are now known as Derinkuyu and Kaymakli. These underground cities have chambers extending to depths of over 80 meters.\n\nIn the Middle Ages Cappadocia had hundreds of settlements and Byzantine rock-cut churches were carved out of the volcanic formations of eastern Cappadocia and decorated with painted icons, Greek writing and decorations. Over 700 of these Churches have been discovered and date from the period between the 6th century to the 13th century, many of these monasteries and churches continued to be used until the population exchange between Greece and Turkey 1920s. The Greek inhabitants of these districts of Cappadocia were called Troglodytes. In the 10th century Leo the Deacon recorded a journey to Cappadocia by Nikephoros Phokas, in his writings he mentions that its inhabitants were called Troglodytes, in view of the fact that they “went underground in holes, clefts and labyrinths, as it were in dens and burrows”. The Byzantines re-established control of Cappadocia between the 7th and 11th centuries, during this period churches were carved into cliffs and rock faces in the Göreme and Soğanlı region. In the Middle Ages the Cappadocian Greeks would bury their religious figures in and around monasteries. In recent years mummified bodies have been found in abandoned Greek monasteries of Cappadocia, and many, including bodies of mummified babies, are on display in the Nigde Archaeological Museum. A well-preserved mummified corpse of a young Christian woman is popular with tourists; the blonde haired mummy is believed to be a nun and dates from the Byzantine era, from the 6th to the 11th century. It was discovered in a sixth-century Greek chapel in the Ihlara Valley of Cappadocia. During the tenth century the Byzantine Empire had pushed east into formerly Arab-ruled lands, including most of Armenia, and had resettled thousands of Armenians into various regions of Cappadocia. This population shift intensified ethnic tensions between the Cappadocian Greeks and the Armenian newcomers in Cappadocia, and left Armenia largely devoid of native defenders.\n\n In 1071 AD the Byzantine Empire suffered a considerable defeat at the Battle of Manzikert in Armenia. This defeat would open the interior of Anatolia to invasion by Central Asian Seljuq Turks who would overrun most of Byzantine Asia Minor. This began the transformation of Asia Minor from an entirely Christian and overwhelmingly Greek-populated region to a primarily Muslim and Turkish center. Several Armenian royal families, which included Gagik of Ani and Adom and Abu Sahl of Vaspurakan, sought vengeance on the local Greek Orthodox population after persecutions of the Armenians and Syriac Monophysites by the Byzantines. They used the opportunity provided by the Seljuq conquest to target the Greeks, they tortured and then assassinated the Greek Orthodox metropolitan of Kayseri and pillaged wealthy Greek owned estates. The local Greek landowners eventually killed the Armenian royal Gagik.\n\nBy the 12th century all of Anatolia was overrun by Turkmen tribes from Central Asia, these invading nomads had cleared many regions of Anatolia of indigenous Greeks. The Anatolian Greek population rapidly diminished under Turkish rule owing to mass conversions to Islam, slaughter or exile to Greek territories in Europe. Before the Turkish migration into Anatolia, Greeks as well as smaller numbers of Armenians, Syrians, and Georgians were all Christians, by the 15th century more than 90% of Anatolia was Muslim, according to some researchers largely because of Christian conversions to Islam. Many Byzantine Greek leaders were also tempted to convert to Islam in order to join the Ottoman Turkish aristocracy., although in the beginning of the 20th century, the proportion of Christians in Anatolian population was more than 20%. During the centuries of Turkish rule in Asia Minor many Greeks and other peoples of Anatolia such as Armenians and Kurds adopted the Turkish language, converted to Islam, and came to be identified as Turks. Despite the turmoil in Anatolia, by the 13th century the Greeks of Cappadocia, Lycaonia and Pamphylia remained numerous, even under the pressure of the Turkmen nomads, possibly constituting majorities in some urban centers. During this chaotic period there is evidence that some native Cappadocian Greeks had joined the invading Turkish nomads. Some even managing to rise to levels of prominence in the Seljuq Sultanate of Rum, such as Basil Giagoupes (Bασίλειος Γιαγούπης), a wealthy Cappadocian Greek feudatory lord of a strongly Greek district who held the court title of general (\"amir arzi\") in the army of the Seljuq sultan of Konya, Mesud II. He dedicated a church in the Peristrema (Belisirma) valley where his portrait, which was painted from life still survives to this day. 13th century Cappadocian Greek artists were renowned for their naturalistic paintings and were employed throughout the Seljuk Empire.\n\nOver the course of the 15th century the Ottoman Turks conquered Cappadocia from the Seljuk Turks, the Cappadocian countryside remained largely Greek populated, with a smaller Armenian population even after the Ottoman conquest. During the reign of Ottoman Sultan Murad III (1574 to 1595) the region of Cappadocia became largely Turkified in culture and language through a gradual process of acculturation, as a result many Greeks of Cappadocia had accepted the Turkish vernacular and later became known as ‘Karamanlides’. This name derives from the region of Cappadocia which was called Karaman by the Turks in honor of the Turkish chieftain Karamanoglu, though the Cappadocian Greeks continued to call the region ‘\"Laranda\"’, its ancient Greek name. These Turcophone Greeks lived primarily in the region of Karamania although there were also significant communities in Constantinople and in the region of the Black Sea. Cappadocian Greeks living in remote less accessible villages of Cappadocia remained Greek-speaking and Christian, as they were isolated and consequently less affected by the rapid conversion of the bordering districts to Islam and Turkish speech. The Greek Cappadocians retained the original Greek names of many regions of Cappadocia which were renamed Turkish names during the Ottoman era, such as the town known as ‘Hagios Prokopios’ in the Middle Ages, and renamed ‘Urgup’ by the Turks was still called ‘Prokopion’ by the local Greeks of the early 20th century.\n\nAlthough the Karamanlides abandoned Greek when they learned Turkish they remained Greek Orthodox Christians and continued to write using the Greek Alphabet. They printed manuscript works in the Turkish language using the Greek alphabet, which became known as ‘Karamanlidika’. This was not a phenomenon that was limited to the Cappadocian Greek Karamanlides, as many of the Armenians living in Cappadocia were also linguistically Turkified, although they remained Armenian Apostolic (Orthodox) Christians, they spoke and wrote in the Turkish language although still using the Armenian Alphabet. Some Jewish inhabitants of the Ottoman Empire were also Turkified and although they retained their religion, they also wrote in the Turkish language but using Hebrew script. The Cappadocian Greeks, Armenians and Jewish minorities of the Ottoman Empire had created Graeco-Turkish, Armeno-Turkish, and Judeo-Turkish literatures by developing their own written traditions. Despite the fact that they had lost all knowledge of their own languages after they had been Turkified, the majority of Karamanlides and many Turkophone Armenians eventually revived their original native tongues. While most Cappadocian Greeks had remained Orthodox Christians a significant number of the Karamanlides even converted to Islam during this period. As with other Greek communities, these converts to Islam were considered \"Turks\", as being a Muslim was synonymous with being Turkish to the Greeks of the Ottoman Empire. Greek writers would erroneously describe Greek converts to Islam as “Tourkeuoun” (Τουρκεύουν) or becoming Turkish. European visitors to the sultans' realms would also subjectively label any Muslim a \"Turk\" regardless of his or her mother tongue. The Greeks believed that by converting to Islam and ‘losing’ his or her original Christian religion, the individual was also stepping out of the Greek national community. This way of thinking was even popular years after the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nMany shifts of population took place in central Anatolia during the period of Ottoman rule. Subsequent to the 1571 Ottoman conquest of Cyprus, the Ottoman Sultan Selim I decided to transfer Greeks from Cappadocia, particularly from the Kayseri region, to Cyprus. During this period the architect Sinan, who was born of Greek parentage and a native of Cappadocia wrote a letter to the Sultan asking for his family to be spared from this population transfer. During the Ottoman era, Cappadocian Greeks would migrate to Constantinople and other large cities to do business. By the 19th century, many were wealthy, educated and westernized. Wealthy Cappadocian Greek businessmen built large stone mansions in regions of Cappadocia such as Karvali (modern Güzelyurt) many of which can still be seen today. The Cappadocian Greeks wrote the earliest published novels in the Ottoman Empire in the 19th century, using the Greek Alphabet and Turkish language. Cappadocian Greeks from different regions would specialize in a particular profession, such as the caviar trade. \"Demetrius Charles Boulger\" later describes their work character, \"Each village is connected with some particular guild in Constantinople; one supplies bakals or small storekeepers, another sellers of wine and spirits, another dryers of fish, another makers of caviare, another porters, and so forth.\"’\n\nIn the early 20th century, Greek settlements were still both numerous and widespread throughout most of today’s Turkey. The provinces of Cappadocia and Lycaonia had a large number of Greek settlements and sizeable populations in urban centres such as Kayseri, Nigde, and Konya. The Cappadocian Greeks of the 19th and 20th centuries were renowned for the richness of their folktales and preservation of their ancient Greek tongue.\n\nThe underground cities continued to be used as refuges (Cappadocian Greek: καταφύγια) from the Turkish Muslim rulers. As late as the 20th century the locals were still using the underground cities to escape periodic waves of Ottoman persecution. Dawkins, a Cambridge linguist who conducted research on the Cappodocian Greek natives in the area from 1909-1911, recorded that in 1909, \n\nScholars passing through Cappadocia during the 19th century described the Cappadocian Greeks and their habits. In 1838 British scholar Robert Ainsworth wrote that \"The Cappadocian Greeks are, generally speaking, pleasing and unreserved in their manners, and their conversation indicated a very high degree of intelligence and civilization, where there are so few books, and so little education, and consequently, little learning.\" Sir Charles William Wilson, British consul-general in Anatolia from 1879 to 1882, described their character:\n\nBy the early 1900s the region of Cappadocia was still inhabited by Christian Cappadocian Greeks as well as Muslim Turks and also communities of Armenians and Kurds. By the beginning of the First World War, the Greeks of Anatolia were besieged by the Young Turks. Thousands of Greeks were massacred, approximately 750,000 Anatolian Greeks were massacred in an act of Genocide and 750,000 exiled. The Greeks were targeted prior to and alongside the Armenians and Assyrians. Ionian and Cappadocian Greek deaths alone totaled 397,000, while Pontian Greek deaths numbered 353,000 people. Turkish official Rafet Bey was active in the Genocide of the Greeks of the Anatolian interior, on November 1916 he stated \"We must finish off the Greeks as we did with the Armenians…today I sent squads to the interior to kill every Greek on sight…\" During the Greco-Turkish War (1919–1922) countless numbers of Greeks were deported by the Turks to the Mesopotamian desert where many perished. On January 31, 1917, Chancellor Theobald von Bethmann-Hollweg of Germany reported that:\n\nIn 1924, after living in Cappadocia for thousands of years, the remaining Cappadocian Greeks were expelled to Greece as part of the population exchange between Greece and Turkey defined by the Treaty of Lausanne, the descendents of the Cappadocian Greeks who had converted to Islam were not included in the population exchange and remained in Cappadocia, some still speaking the Cappadocian Greek language. Many Cappadocian towns were greatly affected by the expulsion of the Greeks including Mustafapasa (Sinasos), Urgup, Güzelyurt and Nevsehir as the Greeks constituted a significant percentage of the towns population. The Cappadocian Greeks were taken to the coastal town of Mersin in order to be shipped to Greece. Many would lose all of their belongings due to corrupt officials and looters. The Cappadocian Greeks who were migrating from Cappadocia were replaced by Muslims migrating from mainland Greece, mainly from Thrace; some of these Muslims were Greeks (see Greek Muslims), although most were of Slavic, Turkish and Gypsy origin. Many of the Cappadocian Greek churches were converted to mosques after the Greeks left in the population exchange of the 1920s. These include the Church of St Gregory known today as \"Buyuk Kilise Camii (Big Church Mosque)\".\n\nFollowing the population exchange there was still a substantial community of Cappadocian Greeks living in Turkey, in Constantinople, they had settled there during the Ottoman era and formed enclaves of their native communities, the majority of whom also migrated to Greece following the Anti-Greek Istanbul Pogrom riots of 1955. On their arrival in mainland Greece, many Cappadocian Greeks settled in villages similar to their original Cappadocian villages; the new settlements were named after towns and villages left behind in Cappadocia, with the addition of the word “Nea” (New). For example, Cappadocian Greeks from \"Sinasos\" (present Mustafapaşa near Ürgüp) who settled in the northern part of the island of Euboea in Greece named their new settlement Nea Sinasos \"New Sinasos\". Other examples include Nea Karvali in northern Greece, and Neo Prokopi in central Greece. The regions of Greece with significant settlements of Cappadocian Greeks include the cities of Karditsa, Volos, Kilkis, Larisa, Chalkidiki, Kavala, Alexandroupoli and Thessaloniki. Today the descendents of the Cappadocian Greeks can be found throughout Greece, as well as in countries around the world particularly in Western Europe, North America and Australia as part of the Greek diaspora.\n\nThe modern region of Cappadocia is famous for the churches carved into cliffs and rock faces in the Göreme and Soğanlı valleys. The region is popular with tourists, many of whom visit the abandoned underground cities, houses and Greek churches carved and decorated by Cappadocian Greeks centuries ago. The formerly Greek town of Güzelyurt (Karvali) has become popular with tourists who visit the abandoned stone mansions built centuries ago by wealthy Cappadocian Greek businessmen. Today, more than 700 Greek Orthodox churches and over thirty rock-carved chapels, many with preserved painted icons, Greek writing and frescos, some from the pre-iconoclastic period that date back as far as the 6th century, can still be seen. As of 1985 these Greek cave churches were designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nThe Cappadocian Greeks traditionally spoke a dialect of the Greek language known as \"Cappadocian Greek\". Cappadocian Greek diverged from the other Byzantine Greek dialects early, beginning with the Turkish conquests of central Asia Minor in the 11th and 12th centuries, and so developed several radical features, such as the loss of the gender for nouns. However, having been isolated from the crusader conquests (Fourth Crusade) and the later Venetian influence of the Greek coast, it retained the Ancient Greek terms for many words that were replaced with Romance language ones in Demotic Greek. After centuries of Ottoman rule the Turkish language began to emerge as the dominant language of Cappadocia. Many Greeks began to speak Turkish as a second language and became bilingual, this was the case with the “\"Kouvoukliotes\"” who were always Greek speakers and spoke Turkish with a strong Greek accent, and there were Cappadocian Greeks who only spoke the Turkish language and had given up the use of Greek centuries earlier, known as the \"Karamanlides\". At the beginning of the 20th century, the Cappadocian Greek language still had a strong presence at Gülşehir (formerly Arabison/Arapsu) north-west of Nevsehir, and in the large region southward as far down as Niğde and Bor. Greek was also still spoken at Silli north-west of Konya, in Pharasa and other villages in isolated communities in the interior of central Turkey prior to the Genocide of 1915 and subsequent population transfers. Many Cappadocian Greeks completely abandoned Greek when they learned Turkish, although in the western regions of Cappadocia many Greeks still retained their native language. John Robert Sitlington Sterrett travelled through Cappadocia in 1884 and noted: \"Melegobi is a large and flourishing village, inhabited almost exclusively by Greek-speaking Greeks. The Greeks are numerous all through the western part of Cappadocia, and generally cling to their language with great tenacity, a fact worthy of notice, inasmuch as the Greeks in other parts of Asia Minor speak only Turkish. Instances of Greek-speaking towns are Niğde, Gelvere, Melegobi (Μελοκοπια), and Ortakieui in Soghanli Deressi.\" In the early 20th century scholars and linguists studying the Cappadocian Greeks observed that many Cappadocian Greek villages had begun to replace their native Greek language for the Turkish language. During the 19th-century British scholar John Pinkerton was informed by the Turkish-speaking Greeks that past Turkish rulers of Anatolia had caused them to lose the knowledge of the Greek language, Pinkerton reported that:\n\nIn the 1920s when the Cappadocian Greeks arrived in Greece, the Cappadocian Greek spoken by them was hardly intelligible with the Demotic Greek used in mainland Greece, as it had been cut off from the rest of the Greek-speaking world for centuries. The Cappadocian Greeks were more linguistically Turkified then the Greeks in Pontus and the western coastal regions of Turkey. Once in Greece though, they started using the modern Greek language, causing their ancestral Greek dialect, the Cappadocian Greek language, to go to the brink of extinction. The Cappadocian Greek language was believed by some scholars to have been extinct for many years. The language was then declared alive in 2005, when descendants of Cappadocian Greeks were discovered still speaking the language fluently in central and northern Greece. Today it is still spoken by mainly elderly Cappadocian Greeks in various regions of Greece including in Karditsa, Volos, Kilkis, Larisa, Thessaloniki, Chalkidiki, Kavala, and Alexandroupoli. Some Cappadocian Greeks who converted to Islam, allowing them to avoid the population exchanges of 1923, still speak the language in their traditional homeland in Turkey.\n\nThe Cappadocian Greeks have been isolated from the rest of the Greek-speaking world for centuries and this has made their culture, way of life, and customs somewhat distinctive. Their culture has been strongly influenced by the topography of its different regions. In commercial cities like Kayseri and Malakopea upper level education and arts flourished under the protection of a cosmopolitan middle class. The economy of Cappadocia was largely based upon agriculture and mining and the rural centers which lay upon the valleys and plains. The Cappadocian Greeks have distinctive traditional songs and dances which are still performed in Greece.\n\nThe Persian poet Rumi (1207-1273), whose name means \"Roman\", referring to his residence amongst the \"Roman\" Greek speakers of Cappadocia, wrote a few poems in Cappadocian Greek. These verses are one of the earliest literary attestations of the spoken Cappadocian vernacular.\nThe Cappadocian Greek-American immigrant and renowned Hollywood director Elia Kazan wrote a book \"America, America\" about his uncle, who grew up in Cappadocia in an environment of increasing persecution. Sent on foot by his father as a teenager, with the entire family savings, to Istanbul, Elia's uncle was supposed to establish a new life and, eventually, to bring the rest of the family to the city. In the end Elia's uncle traveled much further, to America, later fulfilling his filial duty and bringing his family over as well. Kazan made his book into an Academy Award-winning movie \"America, America\" in 1963.\n\nThe Cappadocian Greeks continued a number of Anatolian culinary traditions passed down since Byzantine times. These include the preparing of wind-cured meats known as pastirma, a delicacy called in Byzantine times \"paston,\" along with the use of the ubiquitous Central Anatolian spinach-like herb madimak to make dishes such as a variant of spanikopita.\n\n\nThe Cappadocian Greek-American immigrant and renowned Hollywood director Elia Kazan made an Academy Award-winning movie \"America, America\" about his uncle, who grew up in Cappadocia and then was sent on foot as a teenager, with the entire family savings, to escape persecution and establish a new life in Istanbul, and eventually, to bring the rest of the family there.\nΤο Αλάτι Της Γης - Καππαδοκικό Γλέντι\n\n\n"}
{"id": "494137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=494137", "title": "Coming of Age Day", "text": "Coming of Age Day\n\nComing of age ceremonies have been celebrated in Japan since at least 714 AD, when a young prince donned new robes and a hairstyle to mark his passage into adulthood. The holiday was first established in 1948, to be held every year on January 15. In 2000, as a result of the Happy Monday System, Coming of Age Day was changed to the second Monday in January.\n\nJapan's low birth rate and shrinking percentage of young people, coupled with disruptions to some ceremonies in recent years (such as an incident in Naha in 2002, when drunken Japanese youths tried to disrupt the festivities) and a general increase in the number of 20-year-olds who do not feel themselves to be adults have led to decreased attendance of the ceremonies, which has caused some concern among older Japanese. In 2012, the decline continued for the fifth year in a row, with the total of 1.22 million adults celebrating the holiday in 2012 – under half of the participants seen at its peak in 1976, when 2.76 million adults attended ceremonies. This was the first time it has declined below the 50% threshold. Japan lowered the age of adulthood in 2018 from 20 years of age to 18 which is set to take effect in 2022. This change has caused confusion on the status of the holiday, and raised concerns among the kimono industry which profits from the garments worn during the ceremonies.\n\n mark one's coming of age (age of maturity), which reflects both the expanded rights but also increased responsibilities expected of new adults. The ceremonies are generally held in the morning at local city offices throughout Japan. All young adults who turned or will turn 20 between April 2 of the previous year and April 1 of the current one and who maintain residency in the area are invited to attend. Government officials give speeches, and small presents are handed out to the newly recognized adults.\n\nMany women celebrate this day by wearing \"furisode\", a style of \"kimono\" with long sleeves that hang down, and \"zōri\" sandals. Since most are unable to put on a \"kimono\" by themselves due to the intricacies involved, many choose to visit a beauty salon to dress and to set their hair. A full set of formal clothing is expensive, so it is usually either borrowed from a relative or rented rather than bought especially for the occasion. Men sometimes also wear traditional dress (e.g. dark \"kimono\" with \"hakama\"), but nowadays many men wear formal Western clothes such as a suit and tie more often than the traditional \"hakama\". After the ceremony, the young adults often celebrate in groups by going to parties or going out drinking.\n\n"}
{"id": "47032890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47032890", "title": "Cyber Civil Rights Initiative", "text": "Cyber Civil Rights Initiative\n\nThe Cyber Civil Rights Initiative (CCRI) is a non-profit organization that was started as the \"End Revenge Porn\" campaign in 2012 by Holly Jacobs, who herself was a victim of revenge porn.\n\nCCRI's mission is to raise awareness about online harassment and advocate for technological, social, and legal reform. CCRI prefers the term \"nonconsensual pornography\" to \"revenge porn\" and considers it a form of sexual abuse.\n\nIn August 2012, after struggling for years as a victim of revenge porn, Holly Jacobs started an online campaign, \"End Revenge Porn\" (ERP), which advocated for the criminalization of revenge porn. She teamed up with legal experts and anti-revenge porn advocates Mary Anne Franks, Charlotte Laws, and Danielle Citron and, in 2013, incorporated all of her advocacy work into the nonprofit organization, CCRI.\n\nHolly Jacobs is the founder, president, and executive director of CCRI.\n\nProfessor Mary Anne Franks is the Vice-President and Legislative and Tech Policy Director of CCRI.\nCharlotte Laws is a board member of CCRI.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1359862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1359862", "title": "Dagbani language", "text": "Dagbani language\n\nDagbani (or Dagbane), also known as Dagbanli and Dagbanle, is a Gur language spoken in Ghana. Its native speakers are estimated around 1,160,000 (2013). It is a compulsory subject in primary and junior high school in the Dagbon Kingdom, which covers the eastern part of the region. Dagbani is also widely known as a second language in northern Ghana, especially among acephalous tribes overseen by the King of Dagbon, the \"Ya-Na\".\n\nIt is closely related to and mutually intelligible with the Mampelle language, also spoken in Northern Region, Ghana. Dagbani is also similar to the other languages of the same subgroup spoken in this Region, the Dagaare and Waala languages, spoken in Upper West Region of Ghana, and the Frafra language, spoken in Upper East Region of Ghana. \n\nDagbani has a major dialect split between Eastern Dagbani, centred on the traditional capital town of Yendi, and Western Dagbani, centred on the administrative capital of the Northern Region, Tamale. The dialects are however mutually intelligible and mainly consist of different root vowels in some lexemes, and different forms or pronunciations of some nouns, particularly those referring to local flora. The words \"Dagbani\" and \"Dagbanli\" given above for the name of the language are respectively the Eastern and Western dialect forms of the name, but the Dagbani Orthography Committee resolved that “It was decided that in the spelling system <Dagbani> is used to refer to the ... Language, and <Dagbanli> ... to the life and culture”; in the spoken language, each dialect used its form of the name for both functions.\n\nDagbani has eleven phonemic vowels – six short vowels and five long vowels:\n\nOlawsky (1999) puts the schwa (ə) in place of , unlike other researchers on the language who use the higher articulated . Allophonic variation based on tongue-root advancement is well attested for 4 of these vowels: ~ , ~ , ~ and ~ .\n\nDagbani is a tonal language in which pitch is used to distinguish words, as in \"gballi\" (high-high) 'grave' vs. \"gballi\" (high-low) 'zana mat'. The tone system of Dagbani is characterised by two level tones and downstep (a lowering effect occurring between sequences of the same phonemic tone).\n\nDagbani is written in a Latin alphabet with the addition of the apostrophe, the letters ɛ, ɣ, ŋ, ɔ, and ʒ, and the digraphs ch, gb, kp, and ny. The literacy rate used to be only 2–3%. This percentage is expected to rise as Dagbani is now a compulsory subject in primary and junior secondary school all over Dagbon. The orthography currently used (Orthography Committee /d(1998)) represents a number of allophonic distinctions. Tone is not marked.\nDagbani is agglutinative, but with some fusion of affixes. The constituent order in Dagbani sentences is usually agent–verb–object.\n\nThere is an insight into a historical stage of the language in the papers of Rudolf Fisch reflecting data collected during his missionary work in the German Togoland colony in the last quarter of the nineteenth century, especially the lexical list, though there is also some grammatical information and sample texts. A more modern glossary was published in 1934 by a southern Ghanaian officer of the colonial government, E. Foster Tamakloe, in 1934, with a revised edition by British officer Harold Blair. Various editors added to the wordlist and a more complete publication was produced in 2003 by a Dagomba scholar, Ibrahim Mahama. According to the linguist Salifu Nantogma Alhassan, there is evidence to suggest that there are gender-related double standards in the Dagbani language with \"more labels that trivialise females than males.\" Meanwhile, the data was electronically compiled by John Miller Chernoff and Roger Blench (whose version is published online), and converted to a database by Tony Naden, on the basis of which a full-featured dictionary is ongoing and can be viewed online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44111298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44111298", "title": "Ends of the Earth Club", "text": "Ends of the Earth Club\n\nThe Ends of the Earth Club was a group of artists and explorers founded in 1903. Its members included Mark Twain, General John Pershing, Admiral Robert Peary, Gutzon Borglum (the sculptor of Mt. Rushmore), Herbert Adams Gibbons (a Princeton professor and journalist), and more than 100 other prominent businessmen and academics located, primarily, in the northeastern United States.\n\nThe group's honorary president was the British adventurer and writer, Rudyard Kipling. During the first three decades of the twentieth century, the group held an annual dinner at the Savoy Hotel in New York, where its members would meet and exchange stories about foreign travel and politics.\n\nThe members of the group generally favored Anglo American colonization of the non-European world. Mark Twain recalled an evening at the club in a dictation recorded on March 7, 1906. During the evening, the chairman of the dinner, General James L. Wilson, proudly told the group that they were \"all members of the Anglo-Saxon race.\" Wilson further commented, \"And when the Anglo-Saxon wants something, he takes it.\" Twain said that Wilson's comment meant that Englishmen and Americans were \"thieves, highwaymen, and pirates – and proud of it.\"\n\nThe club was one of at least two such clubs in New York. The other club was the Adventurers' Club of New York. \n"}
{"id": "16283865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16283865", "title": "Friedelehe", "text": "Friedelehe\n\nFriedelehe is the term for a postulated form of Germanic marriage said to have existed during the Early Middle Ages. This concept was introduced into mediaeval historiography during the 1920s by Herbert Meyer. There is some controversy as to whether such a marriage form, actually a quasi-marriage, existed but historians who have identified it agree that it was not accepted by the Church.\n\nThe term \"Friedelehe\" means approximately \"lover marriage\". The modern German word \"Friedel\" is derived from the Old High German \"friudil\", which meant \"lover\", or \"sweetheart\"; this is in turn derived from \"frijōn\" \"to love\". The OHG \"friudil\" was parallel to the Old Norse \"fridl\", \"frilla\", modern Danish and Norwegian \"frille\" \"lover\".\n\n\"Friedel\" is compounded with the word \"Ehe\" \"marriage\", from OHG \"ēha\" or \"ēa\" \"marriage\", which in turn harks back to the form \"ēwa\", meaning (approximately) cosmic or divine \"law\". An OHG form *\"friudilēha\" is itself apparently not attested, contributing to the controversy about the authenticity of the modern term.\n\nAccording to Herbert Meyer, the characteristics or Friedelehe were: \n\nPerhaps the best known historic individual to have been born under a Friedelehe was Charlemagne who unified much of Europe in the Middle Ages. Most historians agree that he was born on 2 April 742 while his parents, Pepin the Short and Bertrada of Laon, were bound under a private contract, not considered to be a legal union; the couple did not marry until 744. According to Meyer, Friedelehe was declared illegitimate by the Church in the 9th Century. Nevertheless, vestiges of this form of marriage are said have persisted until modern times reflected in the form of the \"Morganatic marriage\" (also called \"left-hand marriage\"). \n\nIn addition to \"Friedelehe\" there are said to have existed in the Middle Ages the aforementioned \"Muntehe\", \"Kebsehe\" (concubinage), \"Raubehe\" (abduction) and \"Entführungsehe\" (elopement),\n\nAccording to recent research (among others that of Else Ebel, Karl Heidecker and Andrea Esmyol), indications have accumulated providing evidence to the effect that \"Friedelehe\" is a mere research artifact, a construct that arose from a faulty interpretation of the sources by Meyers. In particular Esmyol has refuted the basic assumptions of Meyer's definition in her dissertation \"Lover or Wife? Concubines in the Early Middle Ages\". \n\nThe following points of criticism have been raised: \n\n\nThat Meyers' theory was still able to prevail in this field of research for decades may be attributed to the specific context in which it developed. It was, on the one hand, a time in the 19th and early 20th century characterized by the search for historical models for freer choice in the amatory realm; on the other hand, it was precisely during the time of the Nazi regime, which was careful to ensure that Meyer's theory was not overlooked, since it fit very well into the Nazi ideology emphasizing Germanic heritage and promoting a higher birthrate (cf. Lebensborn).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "78016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78016", "title": "From Russia, with Love (novel)", "text": "From Russia, with Love (novel)\n\nFrom Russia, with Love is the fifth novel by the English author Ian Fleming to feature his fictional British Secret Service agent James Bond. Fleming wrote the story in early 1956 at his Goldeneye estate in Jamaica; at the time he thought it might be his final Bond book. The novel was first published in the United Kingdom by Jonathan Cape on 8 April 1957.\n\nThe story centres on a plot by SMERSH, the Soviet counter-intelligence agency, to assassinate Bond in such a way as to discredit both him and his organisation. As bait, the Russians use a beautiful cipher clerk and the Spektor, a Soviet decoding machine. Much of the action takes place in Istanbul and on the Orient Express. The book was inspired by Fleming's visit to Turkey on behalf of \"The Sunday Times\" to report on an Interpol conference; he returned to Britain by the Orient Express. \"From Russia, with Love\" deals with the East–West tensions of the Cold War, and the decline of British power and influence in the post-Second World War era.\n\n\"From Russia, with Love\" received broadly positive reviews at the time of publication. The book's sales were boosted by an advertising campaign that played upon a visit by the British Prime Minister Anthony Eden to the Goldeneye estate, and the publication of an article in \"Life\", which listed \"From Russia, with Love\" as one of US President John F. Kennedy's ten favourite books. The story was serialised in the \"Daily Express\" newspaper, first in an abridged, multi-part form and then as a comic strip. In 1963 it was adapted into the second film in the Bond series, starring Sean Connery.\n\nSMERSH, the Soviet counterintelligence agency, plans to commit a grand act of terrorism in the intelligence field. For this, it targets the British secret service agent James Bond. Due in part to his role in the defeat of the SMERSH agents Le Chiffre, Mr Big and Hugo Drax, Bond has been listed as an enemy of the Soviet state and a \"death warrant\" is issued for him. His death is planned to precipitate a major sex scandal, which will run in the world press for months and leave his and his service's reputations in tatters. Bond's killer is to be the SMERSH executioner Red Grant, a psychopath whose homicidal urges coincide with the full moon. Kronsteen, SMERSH's chess-playing master planner, and Colonel Rosa Klebb, the head of Operations and Executions, devise the operation. They instruct an attractive young cipher clerk, Corporal Tatiana Romanova, to falsely defect from her post in Istanbul having, she would claim, fallen in love with Bond after seeing a photograph on his file. As an added lure for Bond, Romanova will provide the British with a Spektor, a Russian decoding device much coveted by MI6. She is not told the details of the plan.\nThe offer of defection is received by MI6 in London, ostensibly from Romanova, but is conditional that Bond collects her and the Spektor from Istanbul. MI6 is unsure of Romanova's motive, but the prize of the Spektor is too tempting to ignore; Bond's superior, M, orders him to go to Turkey. Once there, Bond forms a comradeship with Darko Kerim, head of the British service's station in Turkey. Bond meets Romanova and they plan their route out of Turkey with the Spektor. He and Kerim believe her story and the three board the Orient Express. Kerim quickly discovers three Russian MGB agents on board, travelling incognito. He uses bribes and trickery to have two of them taken off the train, but he is later found dead in his compartment with the body of the third MGB agent.\n\nAt Trieste a fellow MI6 agent, \"Captain Nash\", introduces himself and Bond presumes he has been sent by M as added protection for the rest of the trip. Romanova is suspicious of Nash, but Bond reassures her that the man is from his own service. After dinner, at which Nash has drugged Romanova, they rest. Bond is woken with a weapon pointing at him and Nash reveals himself to be the killer Grant. Instead of killing Bond immediately, he describes SMERSH's plan. He is to shoot Bond through the heart and dispose of Romanova after leaving a film of their love-making in the luggage; in addition, the Spektor is booby-trapped to explode when examined. As Grant talks, Bond places his metal cigarette case between the pages of a book he holds in front of him, positioning it in front of his heart to stop the bullet. After Grant fires, Bond collapses to the floor and, when Grant steps over him, he attacks and kills the assassin. Bond and Romanova escape.\n\nLater, in Paris, after successfully delivering Romanova and the booby-trapped Spektor to his superiors, Bond meets Rosa Klebb. She is captured but manages to kick Bond with a poisoned blade concealed in her shoe; the story ends with Bond fighting for breath and falling to the floor.\n\nBy January 1956 the author Ian Fleming had published three novels—\"Casino Royale\" in 1953, \"Live and Let Die\" in 1954 and \"Moonraker\" in 1955. A fourth, \"Diamonds Are Forever\", was being edited and prepared for production. That month Fleming travelled to his Goldeneye estate in Jamaica to write \"From Russia, with Love\". He followed his usual practice, which he later outlined in \"Books and Bookmen\" magazine: \"I write for about three hours in the morning ... and I do another hour's work between six and seven in the evening. I never correct anything and I never go back to see what I have written ... By following my formula, you write 2,000 words a day.\" He returned to London in March that year with a 228-page first-draft manuscript that he subsequently altered more heavily than any of his other works. One of the significant re-writes changed Bond's fate; Fleming had become disenchanted with his books and wrote to his friend, the American author Raymond Chandler: \"My muse is in a very bad way ... I am getting fed up with Bond and it has been very difficult to make him go through his tawdry tricks.\" Fleming re-wrote the end of the novel in April 1956 to make Klebb poison Bond, which allowed him to finish the series with the death of the character if he wanted.\n\nBreathing became difficult. Bond sighed to the depth of his lungs. He clenched his jaws and half closed his eyes, as people do when they want to hide their drunkenness. ... He prised his eyes open. ... Now he had to gasp for breath. Again his hand moved up towards his cold face. He had an impression of Mathis starting towards him. Bond felt his knees begin to buckle ... [he] pivoted slowly on his heel and crashed head-long to the wine-red floor.\n\"From Russia, with Love\", novel's closing lines\n\nFleming's first draft ended with Bond and Romanova enjoying a romance. By January 1957 Fleming had decided he would write another story, and began work on \"Dr. No\" in which Bond recovers from his poisoning and is sent to Jamaica.\n\nFleming's trip to Istanbul in June 1955 to cover an Interpol conference for \"The Sunday Times\" was a source of much of the background information in the story. While there he met the Oxford-educated ship owner Nazim Kalkavan, who became the model for Darko Kerim; Fleming took down many of Kalkavan's conversations in a notebook, and used them verbatim in the novel.\n\nAlthough Fleming did not date the event within his novels, John Griswold and Henry Chancellor—both of whom wrote books for Ian Fleming Publications—have identified different timelines based on events and situations within the novel series as a whole. Chancellor put the events of \"From Russia, with Love\" in 1955; Griswold considers the story to have taken place between June and August 1954.\n\nIn August 1956, for fifty guineas, Fleming commissioned Richard Chopping to provide the art for the cover, based on Fleming's design; the result won a number of prizes. After \"Diamonds Are Forever\" had been published in March 1956, Fleming received a letter from a thirty-one-year-old Bond enthusiast and gun expert, Geoffrey Boothroyd, criticising the author's choice of firearm for Bond.\n\nI wish to point out that a man in James Bond's position would never consider using a .25 Beretta. It's really a lady's gun—and not a very nice lady at that! Dare I suggest that Bond should be armed with a .38 or a nine millimetre—let's say a German Walther PPK? That's far more appropriate.\n\nBoothroyd's suggestions came too late to be included in \"From Russia, with Love\", but one of his guns—a .38 Smith & Wesson snubnosed revolver modified with one third of the trigger guard removed—was used as the model for Chopping's image. Fleming later thanked Boothroyd by naming the armourer in \"Dr. No\" Major Boothroyd.\n\nAs with several of his works, Fleming appropriated the names or backgrounds of people he knew or had heard of for the story's characters: Red Grant, a Jamaican river guide—whom Fleming's biographer Andrew Lycett described as \"a cheerful, voluble giant of villainous aspect\"—was used for the half-German, half-Irish assassin. Rosa Klebb was partly based on Colonel Rybkin—a real-life member of the Lenin Military-Political Academy about whom Fleming had written an article for \"The Sunday Times\". The Spektor machine used as the bait for Bond was not a Cold War device, but had its roots in the Second World War Enigma machine, which Fleming had tried to obtain while serving in the Naval Intelligence Division.\n\nThe idea of the Orient Express came from two sources: Fleming had returned from the Istanbul conference in 1955 by the train, but found the experience drab, partly because the restaurant car was closed. He also knew of the story of Eugene Karp and his journey on the Orient Express: Karp was a US naval attaché and intelligence agent based in Budapest who, in February 1950, took the Orient Express from Budapest to Paris, carrying a number of papers about blown US spy networks in the Eastern Bloc. Soviet assassins were already on the train. The conductor was drugged and Karp's body was found shortly afterwards in a railway tunnel south of Salzburg. Fleming had a long-standing interest in trains and, following his involvement in a near-fatal crash in 1927, associated them with danger; they also feature in \"Live and Let Die\", \"Diamonds Are Forever\" and \"The Man with the Golden Gun\".\n\nThe cultural historian Jeremy Black points out that \"From Russia, with Love\" was written and published at a time when tensions between East and West were on the rise and public awareness of the Cold War was high. A joint British and American operation to tap into landline communication of the Soviet Army headquarters in Berlin using a tunnel into the Soviet-occupied zone had been publicly uncovered by the Soviets in April 1956. The same month the diver Lionel Crabb had gone missing on a mission to photograph the propeller of the Soviet cruiser \"Ordzhonikidze\" while the ship was moored in Portsmouth Harbour, an incident that was much reported and discussed in British newspapers. In October and November that year a popular uprising in Hungary was repressed by Soviet forces.\n\nTo make Bond a more rounded character, Fleming put further aspects of his personality into his creation. The journalist and writer Matthew Parker observes that Bond's \"physical and mental ennui\" is a reflection of Fleming's poor health and low spirits when he wrote the book. The early depictions of Bond were based on earlier literary characters. In \"New Statesman\", the journalist William Cook writes of the early Bond:\n\nJames Bond is the culmination of an important but much-maligned tradition in English literature. As a boy, Fleming devoured the Bulldog Drummond tales of Lieutenant Colonel Herman Cyril McNeile (aka \"Sapper\") and the Richard Hannay stories of John Buchan. His genius was to repackage these antiquated adventures to fit the fashion of postwar Britain ... In Bond, he created a Bulldog Drummond for the jet age.\n\nFollowing on from the character development of Bond in his previous four novels, Fleming adds further background to Bond's private life, largely around his home life and personal habits, with Bond's introduction to the story seeing him at breakfast with his housekeeper, May. The novelist Raymond Benson—who later wrote a series of Bond novels—sees aspects of self-doubt entering Bond's mind with the \"soft\" life he has been leading when he is introduced in the book. Benson identifies Bond's fear when the flight to Istanbul encounters severe turbulence from a storm, and notes Bond's apparent nervousness when he first meets Romanova; he seems concerned and guilty about his mission. The other characters in the book are also well developed, according to Benson. He considers that the head of the Turkish office, Darko Kerim Bey, is \"one of Fleming's more colourful characters\"; Kerim is a similar type of dependable and appealing ally that Fleming also created with Quarrel (in \"Live and Let Die\") and Colombo (in the short story \"Risico\"). Parker considers that Kerim is \"an antidote\" to Bond's lethargy, while the essayist Umberto Eco sees the character as having some of the moral qualities of the villains in the series, but that those qualities are used in support of Bond.\n\n\"From Russia, with Love\" is one of the few stories by Fleming in which the Soviets are the main enemy, although Eco considers Bond's Russian opponents \"so monstrous, so improbably evil that it seems impossible to take them seriously\". Fleming introduced what was a new development for him, a female opponent for Bond, although much like the former adversaries in the series, Rosa Klebb is described as being physically repulsive, with poor hygiene and gross tastes. Eco—and Anthony Synnott, in his examination of aesthetics in the Bond novels—consider that despite Klebb being female, the character is more akin to a \"sexually neuter\" individual. Red Grant was Fleming's first \"psychotic opponent\" for Bond, according to Benson. Charlie Higson—who later wrote the Young Bond series—finds Grant to be \"a very modern villain: the relentless, remorseless psycho with the cold dead eyes of a 'drowned man'.\"\n\nAccording to Higson, Fleming spent the first four novels changing the style of his books, and his approach to his characters, but in \"From Russia, with Love\" the author \"finally hits on the classic Bond formula, and he happily moved into his most creative phase\". The literary analyst LeRoy L. Panek observes that the previous novels were, in essence, episodic detective stories, while \"From Russia, with Love\" is structured differently, with an \"extended opening picture\" that describes Grant, the Russians and Romanova before moving onto the main story and then bringing back some of the elements when least expected. The extensive prose that describes the Soviet opponents and the background to the mission takes up the first ten chapters of the book, and Bond is only introduced into the story in chapter eleven. Eco identifies that the opening passage introducing Red Grant is a \"cleverly presented\" beginning, similar to the opening of a film. Eco remarks that \"Fleming abounds in such passages of high technical skill\".\n\nBenson describes the \"Fleming Sweep\" as taking the reader from one chapter to another using \"hooks\" at the end of chapters to heighten tension and pull the reader onto the next. He feels that the \"Fleming Sweep steadily propels the plot\" of \"From Russia, with Love\" and, though it was the longest of Fleming's novels, \"the Sweep makes it seem half as long\". Kingsley Amis, who later wrote a Bond novel, considers that the story is \"full of pace and conviction\", while Parker identifies \"cracks\" in the plot of the novel, but believes that \"the action mov[es] fast enough for the reader to skim over them\".\n\nFleming used known brand names and everyday details to produce a sense of realism, which Amis calls \"the Fleming effect\". Amis describes \"the imaginative use of information, whereby the pervading fantastic nature of Bond's world ... [is] bolted down to some sort of reality, or at least counter-balanced.\"\n\nThe cultural historians Janet Woollacott and Tony Bennett consider that Fleming's preface note—in which he informs readers that \"a great deal of the background to this story is accurate\"—indicates that in this novel \"cold war tensions are most massively present, saturating the narrative from beginning to end\". As in \"Casino Royale\", the concept of the loss of British power and influence during the post-Second World War and Cold War period was also present in the novel. The journalist William Cook observes that, with the British Empire in decline \"Bond pandered to Britain's inflated and increasingly insecure self-image, flattering us with the fantasy that Britannia could still punch above her weight.\" Woollacott and Bennett agree, and maintain that \"Bond embodied the imaginary possibility that England might once again be placed at the centre of world affairs during a period when its world power status was visibly and rapidly declining.\" In \"From Russia, with Love\", this acknowledgement of decline manifested itself in Bond's conversations with Darko Kerim when he admits that in England \"we don't show teeth any more—only gums.\"\n\nWoollacott and Bennett argue that in selecting Bond as the target for the Russians, he is \"deemed the most consummate embodiment of the myth of England\". The literary critic Meir Sternberg sees the theme of Saint George and the Dragon running through several of the Bond stories, including \"From Russia, with Love\". He sees Bond as Saint George—the patron saint of England—in the story, and notes that the opening chapter begins with an examination of a dragonfly as it flies over the supine body of Grant.\n\n\"From Russia, with Love\" was released in the UK as a hardback on 8 April 1957, by the publishers Jonathan Cape. The American edition was published a few weeks later by Macmillan. Fleming was pleased with the book and later said:\n\nPersonally I think \"from Russia, with Love\" was, in many respects, my best book, but the great thing is that each one of the books seems to have been a favourite with one or other section of the public and none has yet been completely damned.\n\nIn November 1956 the Prime Minister, Sir Anthony Eden, had visited Fleming's Jamaican Goldeneye estate, to recuperate from a breakdown in his health. This was much reported in the British press, and the publication of \"From Russia, with Love\" was accompanied by a promotional campaign that capitalised on Fleming's raised public profile. The serialisation of the story in \"The Daily Express\" in 1957 provided a boost to the sales of the book; a bigger rise in sales was to follow four years later. In an article in \"Life\" on 17 March 1961, the US President John F. Kennedy listed \"From Russia, with Love\" as one of his ten favourite books. This accolade, and its associated publicity, led to a surge in sales that made Fleming the biggest-selling crime writer in the US. There was a further boost to sales following the release of the film of the same name in 1963, which saw the sales of the Pan paperback rise from 145,000 in 1962 to 642,000 in 1963 and 600,000 in 1964.\n\n\"From Russia, with Love\" received mainly positive reviews from critics. Julian Symons, in \"The Times Literary Supplement\", considered that it was Fleming's \"tautest, most exciting and most brilliant tale\", that the author \"brings the thriller in line with modern emotional needs\", and that Bond \"is the intellectual's Mike Hammer: a killer with a keen eye and a soft heart for a woman\". The critic for \"The Times\" was less persuaded by the story, suggesting that \"the general tautness and brutality of the story leave the reader uneasily hovering between fact and fiction\". Although the review compared Fleming in unflattering terms to Peter Cheyney, a crime fiction writer of the 1930s and 1940s, it concluded that \"From Russia, with Love\" was \"exciting enough of its kind\".\n\n\"The Observer\"s critic, Maurice Richardson, thought that \"From Russia, with Love\" was a \"stupendous plot to trap ... Bond, our deluxe cad-clubman agent\" and wondered \"Is this the end of Bond?\" The reviewer for the \"Oxford Mail\" declared that \"Ian Fleming is in a class by himself\", while the critic for \"The Sunday Times\" argued that \"If a psychiatrist and a thoroughly efficient copywriter got together to produce a fictional character who would be the mid-twentieth century subconscious male ambition, the result would inevitably be James Bond.\"\n\nWriting in \"The New York Times\", Anthony Boucher—described by a Fleming biographer, John Pearson, as \"throughout an avid anti-Bond and an anti-Fleming man\"—was damning in his review, saying that \"From Russia, with Love\" was Fleming's \"longest and poorest book\". Boucher further wrote that the novel contained \"as usual, sex-cum-sadism with a veneer of literacy but without the occasional brilliant setpieces\". The critic for the \"New York Herald Tribune\", conversely, wrote that \"Mr Fleming is intensely observant, acutely literate and can turn a cliché into a silk purse with astute alchemy\". Robert R Kirsch, writing in the \"Los Angeles Times\", also disagreed with Boucher, saying that \"the espionage novel has been brought up to date by a superb practitioner of that nearly lost art: Ian Fleming.\" In Kirsch's opinion, \"From Russia, with Love\" \"has everything of the traditional plus the most modern refinements in the sinister arts of spying\".\n\n\"From Russia, with Love\" was serialised in \"The Daily Express\" from 1 April 1957; it was the first Bond novel the paper had adapted. In 1960 the novel was also adapted as a daily comic strip in the paper and was syndicated worldwide. The series, which ran from 3 February to 21 May 1960, was written by Henry Gammidge and illustrated by John McLusky. The comic strip was reprinted in 2005 by Titan Books in the \"Dr. No\" anthology, which also included \"Diamonds Are Forever\" and \"Casino Royale\".\n\nThe film \"From Russia with Love\" was released in 1963, produced by Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman, and directed by Terence Young. It was the second Bond film in the Eon Productions series and starred Sean Connery as Bond. The film version contained some changes to the novel, with the leading villains switching from SMERSH to SPECTRE, a fictional terrorist organisation. In the main it was a faithful adaptation of the novel; the ending was changed to make clear Bond's survival. Benson declares that \"many fans consider it \"the\" best Bond film, simply because it is close to Fleming's original story\".\n\nThe novel was dramatised for radio in 2012 by Archie Scottney, directed by Martin Jarvis and produced by Rosalind Ayres; it featured a full cast starring Toby Stephens as James Bond and was first broadcast on BBC Radio 4. It continued the series of Bond radio adaptations featuring Jarvis and Stephens following \"Dr. No\" in 2008 and \"Goldfinger\" in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "17009279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17009279", "title": "Hartford Club", "text": "Hartford Club\n\nThe Hartford Club is a private club at 46 Prospect Street in Hartford, Connecticut, and founded in 1873.\n\nThe Hartford Club began as a union of local men's clubs amalgamated due to financial woes. It began admitting women members in the 1970s. Its present clubhouse, located at 46 Prospect Street, was designed in 1901 by Robert D. Andrews of Andrews, Jacques and Rantoul and was completed in 1903. It opened on January 1, 1908.\n\nThe club provides dining rooms, private banquet and meeting rooms, concierge services for members, and members' activities.\n\nThe clubhouse is located in downtown Hartford, on the east side of Prospect Street, across from the Travelers Tower and one block south of the Old State House. It is a three-story Georgian Revival building, slightly larger in size than domestic mansions of the period that were built in a similar style. It has a broad five-bay facade, with slightly projecting end bays. The ground-floor end windows are three-part Palladian style windows with narrow sidelights, and the center entrance has a series of elaborate projecting elements supported by Corinthian columns. Second-floor windows are set in openings with half-round tops set in recessed panels; the outer windows have the arched section filled with moulded decorative panels.\n\nThe clubhouse was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1984.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1070304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1070304", "title": "Hemshin peoples", "text": "Hemshin peoples\n\nThe Hemshin people (, ; ), also known as Hemshinli or Hamshenis or Homshetsi, are a diverse group of peoples who in the past or present have been affiliated with the Hemşin district in the province of Rize, Turkey. It is generally accepted that they were Armenian in origin, and were originally Christian and members of the Armenian Apostolic Church, but over the centuries evolved into a distinct ethnic group and some converted to Sunni Islam after the conquest of the Ottomans of the region during the second half of the 15th century.\n\nThe term \"the Hemshin\" is also used in some publications to refer to Hemshinli.\n\nRobert H. Hewsen shows the region where today's Hemşin is located to be populated by a people with different designations throughout the ancient and early medieval history. He indicates thereby that some designations may have alternative forms and partially presents the names used with question marks. In summary from 13th century to 6th century BC Colchians, 550 to 330 BC Colchians and Macrones, 180 BC to 14 AD Lazoi (Chani/Tzan tribes), in the Arsacid Period (63–298 AD) Heniochi, Machelones, Heptakometians, Mossynoeci as well as Sanni, Drilae and Macrones are mentioned.\n\nThe Hemşin region is shown as part of Colchis (299–387), Tzanica (387–591) and Chaldia (654–750). The specific location of Hemşin is indicated as Tambur/Hamamašen as a fort and town for the first time in the map covering the period 654–750.\n\nThose two names (Tambur and Hamamašen) are included in the \"History of Taron\" by John Mamikonean in a short passage about a war between the ruler of Tambur, Hamam, and his maternal uncle the Georgian Prince, which resulted in the destruction of the town to be rebuilt by Hamam and be named after him namely Hamamshen. This event is declared by Mamikonian to have taken place in early seventh century. Hamamashen became Hamshen over time. Simonian who conveys this story reports also that the date given by the author may be wrong.\n\nTwo other Armenian chronicles Ghewond and Stepanos Asoghik of Taron, report in short passages in their histories about a migration from Armenia/Oshakan led by prince Shapuh Amatuni and his son Hamam. Ghewond conveys this immigration to be to avoid heavy taxes imposed on Armenians by the Arab rulers. The Amatuni lords are offered fertile land to settle down by the Byzantine Emperor, after they crossed the Corukh river. This migration is dated to be after 789 by Ghewond and as 750 by Stephen Asoghik of Taron.\n\nBenninghaus specifies \"Tambur\" as the destination of the migration led by Hamam and his father Shapuh Amaduni and says that they have seemingly met people there who were already Christians, possibly Greeks. Redgate informs about possible symbolism used in the Ghewond’s history and possible garbling in Mamikonian’s history, and cautions not to take everything at face value. Hachikian states “There is no clue as to where Tambur, the legendary capital of Hamshen, was located. The only certain thing about it is that it clearly belonged to a much earlier time- if it existed at all”. He also mentions in the footnote the name similarity between Tambur and a yayla known as Tahpur or Tagpur, in the heights of Kaptanpasa. Simonian states that Tambur is probably in the vicinity of Varoşkale (altitude 1800 m).\nA description of \"Haynsen\" in the Kingdom of Georgia, its inhabitants and history is contained in \"La Fleur des histoires de la terre d'Orient\" by Hetu'm of Corycos, written around 1307, translated into English in 1520, and later reproduced in the travellers' tales of Samuel Purchas published in 1614. Purrchas uses the term \"Hamsem\" to designate the region and concludes that this is the place of the original Cimmerian gloom of Homer's Odyssey The translation of He'tum's related passage to modern English uses the term Hamshen. He'tum describes the region to be \"miraculous and strange place\" unbelievable unless seen by own eyes, dark and without roads. Signs of human settlement are that \"... People in those parts say that one frequently hears the sounds of men bellowing, of cocks crowing, of horses neighing in the forest,\" Those people are described by He'tum, leaning upon Georgian and Armenian Histories, to be the descendants of the men of the \"wicked\" Iranian Emperor Shaworeos who had chased and harassed Christian people.\n\nThe referenced translation suggests this Emperor could be Shapuhr II, [309–379].\n\nSimonian considers the so described difficulty in access not to imply total isolation. On the contrary, he reports, Hamshen served sometimes as a transit route between the coastal regions and the Armenian plateau.\n\nFurther theories of medieval settlement to Hamshen are that: \n\nIn his analysis of the literary and non-literary sources from the 8th through the 19th centuries, combined with excursions into Hamšēn during the 1980s to identify the surviving Armenian architecture, Dr. Robert W. Edwards has defined the geographical perimeters of that region and assessed the historical impact of its extreme isolation.\n\nSources of the ruling powers in the region, (Byzantine, Trapezuntine, Georgian, Armenian and Turkish) are silent about Hemshin; until the conquest by the Ottomans. It is deduced that Hemşin has been governed by local lords under the umbrella of the greater regional powers changing by the time namely the Bagratid Armenian kingdom, the Byzantine Empire, its successor the Empire of Trebizond, the Georgian Kingdom, the Kara Koyunlu and Ak Koyunlu Turkmen Confederations until it was annexed by the Ottoman Empire which collapsed as a result of the World War I and gave birth to the Republic of Turkey.\n\nThe Ottoman conquest of Hemshin occurred sometime in the 1480s: an Ottoman register dated around 1486 calls it \"Hemshin\" and mentions it as being an Ottoman possession.\n\nTurkish influence was firmly established in the region after the Battle of Manzikert in 1071, after which the Seljuk Turks and other Turkish tribes gained a strong foothold in Central Anatolia and Western Armenian Highlands, often referred to as Eastern Anatolia, bringing the local population in contact with the religion of Islam. In the 15th century, the region of Hamshen was incorporated into the Ottoman Empire. During the Turkish rule, two most important developments are human migrations and conversions. Most sources agree that prior to Ottoman era majority of the residents of Hemshin were Christian and members of the Armenian Apostolic Church. The details and the accompanying circumstances for the migrations and the conversions during the Ottoman era are not clearly known or documented.\n\nAs a result of those developments, distinctive communities with the same generic name have also appeared in the vicinity of Hopa, Turkey as well as in the Caucasus. Those three communities are almost oblivious to one another's existence.\n\nTwo major developments in the Hemshin region during the Ottoman era: Islamization and population movements. Islam may have begun to spread prior to the Ottoman rule, but it did not become the general religion before the end of the 16th century. A number of population movements (both into and out of the region) also happened during the Ottoman era. Even though detailed information regarding the nature of these movements is missing, in summary:\n\nThe present community of Hemshinli is exclusively Muslim and Turkish speaking. This goes for the people living in Hemshin or people maintaining links to the area and living elsewhere in Turkey.\n\nA distinct community settled about 50 km east of Hemşin in villages around Hopa and Borçka also call themselves “Hemşinli”. They are often referred to as the “Hopa Hemşinli”. Professor of Linguistics Bert Vaux at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee refers to this group as the “Eastern Hamshenis”. Hemşinli and Hopa Hemşinli are separated not only by geography but also by language and some features of culture. The two groups are almost oblivious to one another's existence. Simonian reports various theories regarding the appearance of the Hope Hemshinli group. Those theories relate to whether the groups migrated from Hemshin or they were settled by the Ottoman authorities, whether the migration/settlement was in the early 16th or late 17th centuries, and whether the migration took place in one step or two waves. The Hopa Hemşinli are exclusively Muslim as well.\nSimonian reports that there is a controversy regarding whether they arrived in the Hopa region as Muslims or converted to Islam after arrival.\n\nThe Hopa Hemşinli speak a language called \"Hemşince\" or (“Homşetsi” and/or Homshetsma in some sources) as well as Turkish. Recent studies by Hovann Simonian (Author: The Hemshin: A Handbook (Caucasus World)) suggest that this language is an archaic dialect of Armenian subject to influence from Turkish and Laz. Vaux also reports that \"Hemşince\" has been subject to influence from Turkish to a much greater extent than other Armenian dialects. Hemşince and Armenian are generally mutually not intelligible.\n\nIn addition to these two groups there are people speaking Hemşince / Homshetsma in the countries of the former USSR whose ancestors probably originated from Hemşin and/or Hopa Hemşin in course of the various population movements to the Caucasus. Many of the Muslim Hemşince speakers in the former USSR were deported from the Adjara area of Georgia during the Stalin era to Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan. Since 1989, a considerable number of these deportees have moved to Krasnodar Krai since 1989, along with the Meskhetian Turks.\n\nMost Christian Hemşince speakers currently live in Georgia and in the Krasnodar Krai region of Russia, concentrated in the Sochi area and Adygeya.\n\nHemshinli are well known for the clever jokes, riddles, and stories that they tell. Some of the anecdotes that the Muslim Hemshinli tell are actually based on older Armenian ones. They accompany dances with their own brand of music using the \"tulum\" (the Pontic bagpipe) (for the Western group), the \"şimşir kaval\" (flute made of buxus) (for the Eastern group) or the \"Hamshna-Zurna\" (Hamsheni zurna) (for the Northern group). The traditional occupations of the Turkish Hemshinli are cultivating tea and maize, breeding livestock, and beekeeping. The Northern Hamshenis of Russia and Georgia, meanwhile, are primarily known as citrus, corn, tobacco and tea growers as well as fishermen.\n\nThe Hemshin people and their mansions were featured in issue twelve of Cornucopia Magazine.\n\nThe \"Turkey for the Turks\" ideology, writes Neal Ascherson, \"offered no security for minorities\" with \"the tiny Hemşinli group having especially compelling reasons to keep its head down\" because \"its members are the descendants of Armenians.\" Beginning in the 1930s, a number of Turkish historians attempted to ascribe an entirely Turkish origin to the Hemshinli, the most prominent of them being M. Fahrettin Kırzıoğlu, whose theories have since gained wide currency among the community. His theories on the Hemshinli, however, have come under close scrutiny and have been roundly criticized. The German scholars Wolfgang Feurstein and Tucha Berdsena describe Kırzıoğlu's methodology as so:\n\nAt first Kırzıoğlu assaults the reader with a flow of historical peoples; he then searches for some kind of phonetic correspondence or similarity with an old Turkish tribe, flavors this alleged historical outpouring with a pinch of \"Islam,\" and presents himself as a competent researcher of Turkishness. Probably never before has a single person in Turkey falsified history so massively!\n\nThe filmmaker Özcan Alper, an eastern Hemshinli, made the first motion picture in Homshetsi, \"Momi\" (Grandma), released in 2000. As a result, Alper was accused in the Court for State Security of producing material intended to destroy the unity of the state, under article 8 of Turkey's anti-terror law. This law was repealed in 2003 after EU pressure, and Alper's trial did not go ahead. Hamsheni singer Gökhan Birben (from the Western group) and Laz singer Kâzım Koyuncu had also sung in Homshetsi. In 2005, the first music album exclusively of anonymous Hamshen folk songs and sung mostly in Homshetsi, \"Vova - Hamşetsu Ğhağ\" was released.\n\nOlder generations of Turkish Hemshinli see the reference \"Ermeni\" (often used by their Laz neighbours) as an insult.\n\nMesut Yılmaz, a former Prime Minister of Turkey, was born in Istanbul to a family with partial Hamsheni (Western group) origins. Ahmet Tevfik İleri (who was born in Yaltkaya (Gomno) village of Hemşin), a Deputy Prime Minister and before that, a Minister of Education in Turkey within successive Adnan Menderes governments between 1950 and 1960, as well as Damat Mehmet Ali Pasha, the Ottoman Grand Vizier on the eve of the Crimean War in 1853 were also of Hamshenis descent. The community issued other important names in Turkish history and society such as Murat Karayalçın, current leader of SHP and a former Deputy Prime Minister and mayor of Ankara who is from Şenyuva (Çinçiva) village of Çamlıhemşin.\n\nThere are two ongoing projects involving Turkish NGOs and EuropeAid, European Commission's external aid instrument, that touch their issues. The more recently (2007) launched \"Ecodialogue Project\" (\"Ekodiyalog\", web site pending) has set itself as goal raising environment consciousness of the region's enterprises and improving the poor levels and quality of the information relayed by local guides, many of whom are self-styled and unlicensed The other project, started 2004 and involving also the World Conservation Union, aims to raise the profile and awareness of the grouse, particularly black grouse, who visit the region, also with focus on enterprises and guides.\n\nInterest in Hamshen heritage is rising among Christian Hamshenis in the former Soviet Union. In 2006, the first music album in Homshetsma by the Ensemble Caravan was released in Krasnodar. Hamshen Scientific, Information and Cultural Centre began to work on exclusive projects in order to recover the cultural heritage of the Hamshenis living in the region. The Armenian newspaper published in Sukhumi carries the name \"Hamshen\".\n\nDuring the Mikhail Gorbachev period of the Soviet Union in the late 1980s, the Hamshenis of Kazakhstan began petitioning for the government to move them to the Armenian SSR. However, this move was denied by Moscow because of fears that the Muslim Hamshenis might spark ethnic conflicts with their Christian Armenian brothers.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union, most Hamshenis lived relatively undisturbed. However, those in the Abkhazia region of Georgia had trouble coping with day-to-day life during the Georgian Civil War.\n\nSince 2000, several hundred of the Muslim Hamshenis in Russia who have resettled from Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan to Krasnodar Krai (about 1000 total) have repeatedly attempted to formally receive registration from the local authorities. This is similar and related to the problem of the Meskhetians. These actions have been made difficult by the attitude of the Krasnodar officials. In defiance of the authorities an organisation of their co-ethnics in Armenia have appealed to the Russian ambassador in Yerevan to get Moscow to intervene in this case and overrule the regional officials who seem intent on preventing Hamshenis from gaining a status of permanent residency.\n\nIn the 2002 Russian Federation census, 1,542 people identified themselves as Hamshenis, two-thirds of whom were living in Krasnodar Krai.\n\nFrom October 13 to 15, 2005, a Hamsheni international scientific convention was held in Sochi. The conference was organized under the Institute of History of the Academy of Sciences of Armenia, Russian-Armenian Commonwealth Organization of Moscow (commissioned by the Armenian Revolutionary Federation) with help from the Armenian Scientific Informational and Cultural Center, \"Hamshen\" (Krasnodar, Russia) and Russian Armenian newspaper Yerkramas. It involved scholars from Armenia, Russia, the United States, Germany, and Iran to discuss the past of the Hamshenis. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23412689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23412689", "title": "Italian immigration to Switzerland", "text": "Italian immigration to Switzerland\n\nItalian immigration to Switzerland (unrelated to the indigenous Italian-speaking population in Ticino and Grigioni) is related to the Italian diaspora in Switzerland.\n\nIt began on a large scale in the late 19th century, although most of the immigrants that reached the country in that period eventually returned to Italy after the rise of Fascism. Future Italian leader Benito Mussolini himself emigrated in Switzerland in 1902, only to be deported after becoming involved in the socialist movement.\n\nA new migratory wave began after 1945, favoured by the lax immigration laws then in force. At first the Swiss government encouraged the arrival of guest workers, assigning them different types of work permits, some forbidding job switching, ranging from the \"frontaliere\" permit given to Italians living near the Swiss border to the \"C\" permit granting the same status of a Swiss citizen minus the political rights.\n\nIn 1970 there were a million immigrants in Switzerland, 54% of whom were Italians. Rising friction with the indigenous majority even led to the creation of an \"anti-Italians party\" in 1963. As every other immigrant group at the time, Italians were faced with a policy of forced integration, later satirised in the highly successful 1978 comedy film \"Die Schweizermacher\" (literally \"The Swissmakers\"), which went on to become the fifth most-watched film of all time in Switzerland\n\nItalian citizens remain the largest non-naturalized group (ca. 290,000, followed by 270,000 Germans). The total number of \"ethnic Italians\" in Switzerland is estimated at close to half a million, but there are no official statistics on ethnicity, and furthermore cultural assimilation and cross-marriage makes it difficult to determine who among the second or third generation descendants of Italians should be counted as \"ethnic Italian\".\n\nAs of 2008 there is a small resurfacing of Italian immigration, when after decades the migratory balance of Italians returned positive (2,213 new Italian immigrants to Switzerland).\n\n"}
{"id": "44685316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44685316", "title": "Japanese haunted towns", "text": "Japanese haunted towns\n\nJapanese haunted towns are towns legendarily inhabited by ghosts (\"yōkai\"). These include Yōkai Street (officially known as Jōkyo Street or Taishōgun shopping street), in Kyoto and the Yōkaichi of Shiga Prefecture.\n\nŌbokeyōkai Village in the Tokushima Prefecture has developed a \"yōkai\" culture. Legend has it that \"yōkai\" inhabit the village. Some 15,000 people were identified as residents in the 1950s. However, reports regarding \"yōkai\" sightings and \"yōkai\"-related phenomena led to a mass exodus. In 2013, the village was home to only 4,000 permanent residents.\n\nThis village is said to be a birthplace of \"konakijijī\", and is the source of many \"yōkai\" legends. To capitalize upon the interests of Japanese pop culture and as a sign of respect for their fellow \"yōkai\" residents, this village erected statues of \"yōkai\" and holds various \"\"yōkai\" events\" annually.\n\nIn 1998, locals began to investigate the village and uncovered its legend as a birthplace of \"konakijijī\" and \"yōkai\". In 2001, they put up a statue of \"konakijijī\" and started a \"yōkai\" festival. In 2010, a rest area in this village was remade into a \"yōkai\" mansion and many statues of \"yōkai\" are displayed there.\n\nPeople in this village have held many events and built many structures. The biggest event is the Yōkai Festival held every year in November. Yokai night walks, a disguise contest, poster exhibitions, and guided tours are also held. In addition, there is a yōkai mansion as a roadside station, where legends about yōkai are displayed. Furthermore, many sculptures of yōkai stand in various places throughout the village.\n\nIn Ōbokeyokai village, stories about \"yōkai\" have been handed down from generation to generation. For example, stories about \"konakijijī\", \"hitotsumenyūdō\", \"tengu\", \"kappa\" (folklore), and so on. More than one hundred and fifty stories exist now. Ancient people scared children with stories of \"yōkai\", to prevent them from doing dangerous things.\n\nMizuki Shigeru road is a street with many statues of \"yōkai\" in Sakaiminato, Tottori. Sakaiminato is the birthplace of Shigeru Mizuki, who is the author of GeGeGe no Kitarō, a famous Japanese comic. Mizuki Shigeru road has many statues of \"yōkai\" and facilities related to \"yōkai\".\n\nStatues of \"yōkai\", a memorial house, a shrine and many shops are on Mizuki Shigeru road. When the road was first built, 23 statues of \"yōkai\" were there, but by 2014, the number had risen to 153. Mizuki Shigeru \"kinenkan\" is a memorial house with exhibits of comics drawn by Mizuki, photos of his trips, an account of his history and many articles about \"yōkai\". \"Yōkai jinja\" is a shrine founded to accommodate \"yōkai\". The crest for the shrine symbolizes Chinese character ‘kai’.\n\nMizuki Shigeru road had a history of 21 years as of 2014. Sakaiminato prospered by the marine products industry. To add culture, Mizuki Shigeru road was made in 1993. In 2000, \"yōkai jinja\" was founded on the road, and in 2003, Mizuki Shigeru \"kinenkan\" was made. In 2008 over 10 million people visited this road .\n\nEvents include \"Sakaiminato sakana\", a \"yōkai\" walk. Another event is \"GeGeGe no getatumi taikai\", in which the participants compete by the number of \"Getas\" they amass. The higher-ranking prize winners receive a prize.\n\nIn Yōkai Street, many cute and humorous \"yōkai\" appear. Yōkai Street is at Taishōgun in Kyōto. This is a development project. Many \"yōkai\" dolls are displayed in storefronts. When events are held, many people participate.\n\nResidents of Taishōgun began this project in 2005. The project derives from “Hyakki yagyō” in the Heian period. Hyakkiyakō is a parade of many yōkai, which is from old tools threw away. In the Heian period, people believed that if people threw tools using a long time,that the tools had souls, called Tsukumogami. It is said that this way of thinking celebrates the importance of using tools for a long time. These yōkai often appeared along Ichjō street. Now, in Taishōgun along Ichijō street, there is a small hall of yōkai. In the hall there, details explaining Hyakkiyakō and yōkai can be found.\n\nYōkai Street is usually quiet, but many kind of \"yokai\" welcome visitors. Various stores and handmade \"yōkai\" are placed in front of stores. In front of the bakery is “the old man of bread.” In front of the kimono shop is a \"bakeneko\" dressed in a \"kimono\". One local dish is \"Yōkai Ramen\", a Chinese noodle soup. It is the black and powdered in red. In front of this restaurant is a one-eyed goblin. Other food served there is a \"yōkai\" croquette. The color is black and the inside is green. These foods are popular despite their strange appearance.\n\nAt the Taishōgunhachi shrine on Yōkai Street, a Yōkai Free Market is held several times a year. This market is usually well attended and full of people buying and selling \"yōkai\"-related goods. Another event is “\"Ichijō Hyakkiyakō\",” a costume parade in which many people wear \"yōkai\" costumes and walk along Ichijō street at night.\n\nYōkaichi city, which is in Shiga prefecture, has become prosperous by publicizing \"yōkai\". Honaikai is an attempt to recover local history through events related to \"yōkai\".\n\nYōkaichi, Shiga city, which is now Higashiōmi, Shiga city, was named in the Asuka period by Prince Shōtoku. The name Yōkaichi derives from the market which was held on days including 8 (8th, 18th, 28th) in Asuka period. Yōkaichi prospered as a market town and in 2005 merged with four other towns to form Higashiōmi, Shiga.\n\nHonaikai took a leading part in the development of \"yōkai\" culture in Yōkaichi city, starting in 1999. In 2002, \"Honaikai\" made the map of mysterious \"yōkai\" places for the first time. In 2007, Honaikai made a map called the \"Prince Shōtoku series\" which introduced twelve shrines and temples related to Prince Shōtoku. Seven maps related to raccoon dogs, foxes, and the legend of a long-nosed goblin were created. Honaikai especially focuses on Gao, a ghost that eats mischievous children. Members of Honaikai disguise themselves as Gao on February 3 and visit children.\n\nFestivals related to \"yōkai\" or the history of Yōkaichi are held there. \"Yōkaichi ha Yōkaichi\" is held mainly by \"Honaikai\" to inform people of the history and to advance \"yōkai\" culture. A parade with ghosts and a haunted house is held.\n\nThe \"Yōkaichi Shōtoku Maturi\" is a festival during which a night market is held and people enjoy dancing.\n"}
{"id": "20195535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20195535", "title": "Khogyani (Pashtun tribe)", "text": "Khogyani (Pashtun tribe)\n\nThe Khogyani (Khugyani, Khogiani,Khugiani,Khakwani) (, ) tribe is a Pashtun tribe of the Karlani or \"Hill Tribes\" branch. The Khogyani Tribe originated in the Khogyani District of Nangarhar Province and later in Ghazni Province of Afghanistan. Some of their clans are also settled in Khyber Pukhtunkhwa, Balochistan and Punjab provinces of Pakistan. \n\nThe tribe is divided into three sub-tribes: the Kherbon, the Wazir, and the Shirzad tribe. The Khogianis have a long history of conflict with the neighboring Shinwari and Ghilzai tribes. \n\n"}
{"id": "43188925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43188925", "title": "Lakhang", "text": "Lakhang\n\nLakhang is a family name that belongs to a Singpho or Jinghpaw tribe living sparsely in India and Lahkang Ga of Kachin State, Myanmar.\n"}
{"id": "36011417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36011417", "title": "Lavi language", "text": "Lavi language\n\nLavi (Lawi; autonym: Swoeng or \"səlwəŋ\") is a Mon–Khmer language of the Bahnaric branch spoken in Sekong Province, Laos. Chazée (1999:95) estimates the population at 500, while the 2015 Laotian census places the Lavi population at 1,215.\n\nThe Lavi language was discovered by Thai linguist Therapan L-Thongkum in the late 1990s. Within the West Bahnaric branch, it is the most divergent language (Sidwell 2003). Lavi speakers reside in the village Ban Lavi (also called Ban Fandeng), which is about 8 km south of the city of Sekong. Speakers can also be found in Laongam in Salavan province, Paksong in Champasak province, and Thateng in Sekong province. \n\nApplying for an iso 639-3 code in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "38493152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38493152", "title": "Liana language", "text": "Liana language\n\nLiana, or Liana-Seti, is a language of Seram, Indonesia. It also goes by the names \"Kobi\" and \"Uhei Kachlakan\", names it shares with neighboring Benggoi.\n"}
{"id": "34295032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34295032", "title": "List of Nayakars", "text": "List of Nayakars\n\nNayakar or Naicker is the title mostly used in south India by tamil and telugu people. This title was given to army leader/commander or padai thalaivan during early eighth century. People with this surname are found in south Tamil Nadu. Most zamindars are under this caste. Notable people with surname Naicker or Nayakar include:\n"}
{"id": "9385445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9385445", "title": "Lithuanian Museum of Ancient Beekeeping", "text": "Lithuanian Museum of Ancient Beekeeping\n\nThe Lithuanian Museum of Ancient Beekeeping (\"Senovinės bitininkystės muziejus\"), established in 1984 near Stripeikiai in northeastern Lithuania, displays the history of beekeeping in the area.\nThe museum, part of Aukštaitija National Park, was founded by the beekeeper Bronius Kazlas.\n\nAs of 2006, the museum consisted of six buildings, about 500 displays, and 25 sculptures. In addition to illustrating the history of beekeeping in Lithuania, some of the museum's wooden sculptures themselves contain beehives. The sculptures pay homage to the honeybee's place in worldwide mythology and folklore, including Egyptian and Native American figures as well as the Lithuanian god Babilas and goddess Austėja. They were carved by Teofilis Patiejūnas and Ipolitas Užkurnis.\n\nThe displays include glass-sided hives that enable visitors to watch the bees at work, tool collections, and illustrations of the role that bees play in pollination. The wide variety of hives includes many tree trunks, which were used from the 15th century until the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nThe Lithuanian Veterinary Academy claims that Lithuanian bees are especially peaceful. They constitute a sub-species of the European honey bee; they are smaller than Italian bees and larger than the Caucasian honey bee.\n\nThe honeybee is a symbol of friendship in Lithuania; the word \"bičiulis\" is an affectionate form of address. In 2005 Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko presented Lithuanian President Valdas Adamkus with three beehives and bees, which were brought to the museum.\n\nThe museum is open from May to October. A Honey Harvest festival is held in August, and the museum features a \"Honey Bar\".\n\nThe museum has been under the reconstruction recently. Hovewer, it is opened renewed in the spring of 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35328851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35328851", "title": "Logooli language", "text": "Logooli language\n\nLogoli (Logooli) is a Bantu language with several hundred thousand speakers in Kenya and a few hundred speakers in Mara Region, Tanzania. It is spoken by the Maragoli, the second-largest Luhya tribe, but is not particularly close to other languages spoken by the Luhya.\n"}
{"id": "16861647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16861647", "title": "Macedonians in Serbia", "text": "Macedonians in Serbia\n\nMacedonians of Serbia are an officially recognized ethnic minority in Serbia.\n\nDuring the years 1945–1992, ethnic Macedonians and the Macedonian Language was a constituent part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Many Ethnic Macedonians, due to economic reasons, migrated during the 1960s and 1970s to the Socialist Republic of Serbia (predominately in Vojvodina). In 2004, Serbia and Macedonia signed an inter-state agreement on the protection of Macedonians in Serbia and Serbs in Macedonia.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census there were 22,755 ethnic Macedonians in Serbia. The Macedonian population living in Serbia is concentrated in two cities, Belgrade and Pančevo. In Belgrade there are 6,970 Macedonians, while in neighboring Pančevo 4,558 - out of which vast majority live in three villages (Jabuka, Glogonj, and Kačarevo) that are within administrative limits of City of Pančevo. Additionally, Macedonians constitute significant population in Plandište municipality, especially in village of Dužine.\n\nIn 2005 Macedonians in Serbia also established a National Minority Council, which represents as a step towards safeguarding their interests. Jovo Radevski was elected as its president. The Democratic Party of Macedonians is the primary minority party. It is centered in Novi Sad.\n\nMacedonian language is in the official use in the municipality of Plandište, where Macedonians constitute 9.2% of population. Macedonian-language print media consists primarily of the monthly political journal \"Makedonska videlina\" produced by the Macedonian Information and Publishing Centre in Pančevo. Limited Macedonian-language television is available through regional public broadcaster of Radio Television of Vojvodina and the local station TV Pančevo.\n\nAssociations such as \"The Society of Serbian and Macedonian Friendship Šar – planina\" seated in Belgrade, and the \"Municipal Society of Serbian-Macedonian Friendship\" seated in Zrenjanin cover issues related to ethnic, cultural and economic cooperation in Serbia. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15994921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15994921", "title": "Mafa language", "text": "Mafa language\n\nMafa is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in northern Cameroon and eastern Nigeria by the Mafa people.\n"}
{"id": "26583533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26583533", "title": "Manka caste", "text": "Manka caste\n\nThe Manka are a partly Muslim and partly Hindu community found in the state of Gujarat in India.\n\nThe Manka are said to get their name from their profession of making \"manka\", which in the Gujrati language, means the making of prayer beads. They claim to be Chavda Rajputs. The community is said to have come from Sindh and are now found mainly in twenty villages of Bachau and Rapar talukas of Kutch District.Some of the Manka are found in Jam Salaya district Jamnagar in Saurashtra who are mainly in fishing and seafaring work.\n\nThe Manka speak a dialect of Kutchi, with substantial Sindhi loan words. The Manka consist of a number of clans, the main ones being the Jabayi, Chunctria, Jesra, Payana, Chavda and Sinayi. The community is split along religious lines, with the Bhuj Manka being Muslim. They resemble other Kutch Muslim communities in social, ritual and religious activity. The Manka are an endogamous community, and marriages between the clans is the norm. Land is a major economic source, and agriculture is their traditional occupation.\n\n"}
{"id": "8921769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8921769", "title": "Measuring poverty", "text": "Measuring poverty\n\nPoverty can be and is measured in different ways by governments, international organisations, policy makers and practitioners. Increasingly, poverty is understood as multidimensional comprising social, natural and economic factors situated within wider socio-political processes. The capabilities approach also argues that capturing the perceptions of poor people is fundamental in understanding and measuring poverty. \n\nWhen measured, poverty may be absolute or relative. Absolute poverty refers to a set standard which is consistent over time and between countries. An example of an absolute measurement would be the percentage of the population eating less food than is required to sustain the human body (approximately 2000–2500 calories per day).\n\nRelative poverty, in contrast, views poverty as socially defined and dependent on social context. One relative measurement would be to compare the total wealth of the poorest one-third of the population with the total wealth of the richest 1% of the population. In this case, the number of people counted as poor could increase while their income rises. There are several different income inequality metrics; one example is the Gini coefficient.\n\nAlthough absolute poverty is more common in developing countries, poverty and inequality exist across the world.\n\nThe main poverty line used in the OECD and the European Union is a relative poverty measure based on \"economic distance\", a level of income usually set at 60% of the median household income.\n\nThe United States, in contrast, uses an absolute poverty measure. The US poverty line was created in 1963–64 and was based on the dollar costs of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's \"economy food plan\" multiplied by a factor of three. The multiplier was based on research showing that food costs then accounted for about one-third of money income. This one-time calculation has since been annually updated for inflation.\n\nThe U.S. line has been critiqued as being either too high or too low. For example, the Heritage Foundation, a conservative U.S. think tank, objects to the fact that, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, 46% of those defined as being in poverty in the U.S. own their own home (with the average poor person's home having three bedrooms, with one and a half baths, and a garage). Others, such as economist Ellen Frank, argue that the poverty measure is too low as families spend much less of their total budget on food than they did when the measure was established in the 1950s. Further, federal poverty statistics do not account for the widely varying regional differences in non-food costs such as housing, transport, and utilities.\n\nBoth absolute and relative poverty measures are usually based on a person's yearly income and frequently take no account of total wealth. Some people argue that this ignores a key component of economic well-being. Major developments and research in this area suggest that standard one dimensional measures of poverty, based mainly on wealth or calorie consumption, are seriously deficient. This is because poverty often involves being deprived on several fronts, which do not necessarily correlate well with wealth. Access to basic needs is an example of a measurement that does not include wealth. Access to basic needs that may be used in the measurement of poverty are clean water, food, shelter and clothing. It has been established that people may have enough income to satisfy basic needs, but not use it wisely. Similarly, extremely poor people may not be deprived if sufficiently strong social networks, or social service systems exist. For deeper discussion see. See also the Wikipedia article on Multidimensional poverty.\n\nThe World Bank defines poverty in absolute terms. The bank defines \"extreme poverty\" as living on less than US$1.90 per day> (PPP), and \"moderate poverty\" as less than $3.10 a day. It has been estimated that in 2008, 1.4 billion people had consumption levels below US$1.25 a day and 2.7 billion lived on less than $2 a day. The proportion of the developing world's population living in extreme economic poverty has fallen from 28 percent in 1990 to 21 percent in 2001. Much of the improvement has occurred in East and South Asia. In Sub-Saharan Africa GDP/capita shrank with 14 percent, and extreme poverty increased from 41 percent in 1981 to 46 percent in 2001. Other regions have seen little or no change. In the early 1990s the transition economies of Europe and Central Asia experienced a sharp drop in income. Poverty rates rose to 6 percent at the end of the decade before beginning to recede. There are criticisms of these measurements.\n\nSome economists, such as Guy Pfeffermann, say that other non-monetary indicators of \"absolute poverty\" are also improving. Life expectancy has greatly increased in the developing world since World War II and is starting to close the gap to the developed world where the improvement has been smaller. Even in Sub-Saharan Africa, the least developed region, life expectancy increased from 30 years before World War II to a peak of about 50 years — before the HIV pandemic and other diseases started to force it down to the current level of 47 years. Child mortality has decreased in every developing region of the world. The proportion of the world's population living in countries where per-capita food supplies are less than 2,200 calories (9,200 kilojoules) per day decreased from 56% in the mid-1960s to below 10% by the 1990s. Between 1950 and 1999, global literacy increased from 52% to 81% of the world. Women made up much of the gap: Female literacy as a percentage of male literacy has increased from 59% in 1970 to 80% in 2000. The percentage of children not in the labor force has also risen to over 90% in 2000 from 76% in 1960. There are similar trends for electric power, cars, radios, and telephones per capita, as well as the proportion of the population with access to clean water.\n\nThe Poverty Gap Index is the mean distance below the poverty line as a proportion of the poverty line where the mean is taken over the whole population, counting the non-poor as having zero poverty gap.\n\nEven if poverty may be lessening for the world as a whole, it continues to be an enormous problem:\n\nThe World Bank's Voices of the Poor initiative, based on research with over 20,000 poor people in 23 countries, identifies a range of factors that poor people consider elements of poverty. Most important are those necessary for material well-being, especially food. Many others relate to social rather than material issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "36999149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36999149", "title": "Mondzi language", "text": "Mondzi language\n\nMondzi (Munji; autonym: \"\", Chinese 曼子) is a Lolo-Burmese language spoken by the Yi people of China. Speakers are located mostly in Funing County, Yunnan, China and Hà Giang Province, Vietnam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12766771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12766771", "title": "Nathan Aviezer", "text": "Nathan Aviezer\n\nNathan Aviezer is an American-Israeli physicist who writes on Torah and science, especially on evolution and cosmology from an Orthodox Jewish perspective. He is a Professor of Physics and former Chairman of the Physics Department of Bar-Ilan University.\n\nAviezer was born in Switzerland in 1935 and raised in the United States. He received his doctorate in physics from the University of Chicago, and subsequently held a research position at the University of Illinois in the research group of Professor John Bardeen, the only person ever to be awarded two Nobel Prizes in physics. He was then invited to join the research group at the IBM Watson Research Center near New York headed by Professor Leo Esaki, who was also a Nobel Prize winner. In 1967, Aviezer and his wife Dvora made aliyah to Israel. He is the author of 140 scientific articles on solid state physics. In recognition of his important research contributions, he was honored by being elected as a Fellow of the American Physical Society (1984).\n\nIn addition to his scientific research, Aviezer has a long-standing involvement in Torah and science and he has written three books on the subject: \"In the Beginning\" (translated into nine languages),\"Fossils and Faith\" (translated into four languages), \"Modern Science and Ancient Faith\" (recently published). For several decades, Aviezer has received invitation to lecture on the subject of Torah and science throughout the world. Aviezer also gives a course in Torah and science at Bar-Ilan University. In 1999, his course was awarded the prestigious Templeton Prize. Aviezer continues to give lectures on Torah and science throughout Israel as well as abroad.\n\nAviezer is particularly notable for being one of very few modern writers from the religious Jewish perspective to publish on the subject of Torah and science, using the language of science and rejecting creationism. Aviezer allows for divine guidance within an evolutionary paradigm in the transmutation of species over time, including the emergence of modern man. He interprets the six days of creation as broadly referring to large periods of time, an interpretation for which he cites rabbinic sources, including Maimonides and Nachmanides, citing in particular the problem with defining the several \"days\" of creation that precede the creation of the Sun, according to the Biblical narrative. \n\n"}
{"id": "5561337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5561337", "title": "Ndolo dialect", "text": "Ndolo dialect\n\nNdolo is a Bantu language spoken in the Democratic Republic of the Congo by 8,000 people. It is very close to Lingala.\n"}
{"id": "41996050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41996050", "title": "Nida Civic Movement", "text": "Nida Civic Movement\n\nNida Civic Movement (), commonly referred to as N!DA or simply Nida, is an Azerbaijani civic movement founded in early 2011 by a few young people to achieve democratic and social changes in Azerbaijan. Currently it has over 350 members comprising mainly young individuals as well as well-known politicians and activists. The movement claims to have no affiliation with any of the political parties in the country. \"Nida\" means \"exclamation\" in Azerbaijani.\n\nThe purpose of the movement is to defend the constitutional and human rights of the society, and preserve the democratic and republican values. N!DA also aims to attract citizens, especially, youth and students into the socio-political processes of the country in order to democratize Azerbaijan and increase their influence in the processes. The manifest of the movement explicitly states that N!DA is not a political party and it has no intention to be represented in the government.\nN!DA is coordinated by the administrative board consisting of seven members. The members of the board are elected by a general voting held among the movement members only. The incumbent board was formed after some of the board members (co-founders at the same time) and ordinary members were arrested with believed to be fake accusations by the government authorities.\n\nThe current board, as of September 2015, includes Ulvi Hasanli, Ramin Huseynov, Majid Majidli, Kenan Gasimli, Murad Rustambeyli, Ashum Ashumov, Turgut Gambar and İlaha Amiraslanova.\n\nSeven activists of N!DA, including four board members, were kidnapped and arrested with different bogus accusations a few days after the protests held against the non-combat military deaths in March and April 2013 in Baku, Azerbaijan. One more member of the movement, Omar Mammadov was arrested in January 2014. Initially, a criminal case has been launched on articles 234.1 (illegally obtaining, keeping or selling drugs) and 228.1 (illegally obtaining, keeping, carrying weapons, explosives) of the Criminal Code. Later on during the investigation, they faced extra charge under Criminal Code’s article 220.1 (the organization of mass disorders accompanied with violence, breaking, arson, destruction of property, application of fire-arms, explosives, and also rendering of armed resistance to representative of authority, or participation in such disorders). On 6 May 2014 the Baku Court of Grave Crimes sentenced all the young men to 6–8 years of imprisonment. International human rights organization, Amnesty International, recognized all the arrested young men as prisoners of conscience. Shahin Novruzlu and Bakhtiyar Guliyev were pardoned and released on 17 October 2014, while the later defected to the government right after his release. The next pardon came on 30 December 2014 when two more activists Uzeyir Mammadli and Zaur Gurbanli were released. The rest of the activists, Rashadat Akhundov, Rashad Hasanov, Mammad Azizov and Omar Mammadov were pardoned and released on 17 March 2016 ahead of Ilham Aliyev's Washington visit for the Nuclear Security Summit. Ilkin Rustamzade is still in jail as of August 2017.\n"}
{"id": "1316305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1316305", "title": "Official development assistance", "text": "Official development assistance\n\nOfficial development assistance (ODA) is a term coined by the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to measure aid. The DAC first used the term in 1969. It is widely used as an indicator of international aid flow. It includes some loans.\n\nMost ODA comes from the 30 members of the DAC, or about $135 billion in 2013. A further $15.9 billion came from the European Commission and non-DAC countries gave an additional $9.4 billion. Although development aid rose in 2013 to the highest level ever recorded, a trend of a falling share of aid going to the neediest sub-Saharan African countries continued.\n\nThe full definition of ODA is:\nIn other words, ODA needs to contain the three elements:\n(b) with promotion of economic development and welfare as the main objective; and \n(c) at concessional financial terms (if a loan, having a grant element of at least 25 per cent).\n\nThis definition is used to exclude development aid from the two other categories of aid from DAC members:\n\nExamples:\nIf a donor country accords a grant or a concessional loan to Afghanistan it is classified as ODA, because it is on the Part I list.\nIf a donor country accords a grant or a concessional loan to Bahrain it is classified as OA, because it is on the Part II list.\nIf a donor country gives military assistance to any other country or territory it is classified as OOF, because it is not aimed at development.\n\nA recent OECD DAC Commique has seen the donor community update the definition of ODA to better reflect the Sustainable Development Goals.\n\nODA volumes may be measured absolutely, by the amount transferred, or relatively, as a proportion of the donor country's economy. According to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the top 15 countries (DAC and non-DAC members) giving the highest amounts (in absolute terms) in 2015 are as follows: The European Union accumulated a higher portion of GDP as a form of foreign aid than any other economic union.\n\n\nThe OECD also lists countries by the amount of ODA they give \"as a percentage of their gross national income.\" Seven countries met the longstanding UN target for an ODA/GNI ratio of 0.7% in 2015. The top 15 DAC and non-DAC countries for 2015 are shown below:\n\n\nThe average for European Union countries that are DAC members – 0.47%\n\nWorld Bank reports that Iraq was the top recipient of development aid in 2005 followed by Nigeria. However, this is due to the significant debt relief deals that were granted to these nations that year - when donor countries write off a portion of a recipient country's debt, it is counted as official development assistance from the donor country.\n\nThe OECD reports that in 2009 Africa received the largest amount of ODA, at $28 billion. Of that, $25 billion went to countries south of the Sahara, with Sudan receiving approximately $1.9 billion and Ethiopia getting $1.8 billion. Asia received the second largest amount at $24 billion. The top ODA receiving countries in order were Afghanistan ($5.1 billion), Iraq ($2.6 billion) and Vietnam ($2.1 billion) \n\nOfficial development assistance has been criticized by several economists for being an inappropriate way of helping poor countries. The Hungarian economist Peter Thomas Bauer has been one of the most vocal of them. Another notable economist arguing against ODA is Dambisa Moyo in her book Dead Aid. She contends that a country accustomed to receiving ODA may become perpetually dependent on such aid.\n\nDonor countries are most commonly compared by the amount of Official Development Assistance given and their quantity of aid as a percent of GDP. However, there is an increasing focus placed on the quality of aid, rather than simply the quantity. The Commitment to Development Index is one such measure that ranks the largest donors on a broad range of their \"development friendly\" policies. It takes into account the quality of aid, in addition to the quantity, penalizing countries for tied aid. Aid also does not operate in a vacuum; a country's policies on issues such as trade or migration also have a significant impact on developing countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4774581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4774581", "title": "Paska (bread)", "text": "Paska (bread)\n\nPaska (Russian, Ukrainian: Пáска \"Easter\", Georgian: პასკა \"Easter\", ultimately from \"Passover\") is a Easter bread tradition and particularly spread in countries with predominant Eastern Orthodox religion or cultural connections to the ancient Byzantine Empire. Paska breads are a traditional element in the easter holidays of Belarus, Ukraine, Russia, Armenia, Romania, Moldova, Georgia and parts of Bulgaria as well as the Assyrian–Chaldean–Syriac diaspora. Due to its geographical closeness, it is also widespread in Slovakia. Meanwhile it is also eaten in countries with immigrant populations from Eastern Europe such as the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom.\n\nEaster is called in Russian and Ukranian languages \"па́ска\" (\"páska\"/\"Paskha\"). The word is connected to ancient Greek word \"πάσκα\" (\"páska\") and Georgian: \"პასკა\" (\"Easter\"), derived from the Orthodox believers in Byzantine Empire. The name is connected to the Jewish holiday of \"Pesach.\" \n\nPaska is made with milk, butter, eggs, flour, and sugar, except in Romania, where the recipe most commonly includes sweet cream, cottage cheese, and/or sour cream along with eggs, sugar, raisins, and rum. An egg and water mixture is used as a glaze.\n\nThe Christian faithful in many Eastern Christian countries eat this bread during Easter. Christian symbolism is associated with features of paska type breads. The inside of paska can be a swirl of yellow and white that is said to represent the resurrection of Jesus while the white represents the Holy Spirit. Other versions include chocolate, rice, or even savoury mixtures based on cheese. A version is made with maraschino cherries added to symbolize royal jewels in honor of the resurrection of Jesus.\n\nPaska is eaten with \"hrudka\", also called \"syrek\", a bland sweet custard similar to cheese made from separated eggs and milk and beets mixed with horseradish (\"chren\"/\"hrin\") and kielbasa (in Polish) or \"kovbasa\" (in Ukrainian).\n\nIn Iran and the diaspora, Assyrians will eat a Paska cake on Easter, \"Ida Gura\". The tall cake is decorated with a cross on top to represent Calvary, the place of Jesus' crucifixion, and surrounded with colored eggs to symbolize the people who visited Jesus during his death and were at his cross.\n\nPască is a traditional Romanian and Moldovan pastry. Pască is composed with eggs, sour cream, fresh cheese like urdă, raisins and sugar, and is especially made for Easter. The word \"Pască\" come from Latin, \"Pascha\", meaning \"Easter\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1026695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1026695", "title": "Retirement age", "text": "Retirement age\n\nThis article lists the statutory retirement age in different countries. In some contexts, the retirement age is the age at which a person is expected or required to cease work and is usually the age at which they may be entitled to receive superannuation or other government benefits, like a state pension. Policy makers usually consider the demography, fiscal cost of ageing, health, life expectancy, nature of profession, supply of labour force etc. while deciding the retirement age.\n\nMany of the countries listed in the table below are in the process of reforming the ages (see the notes in the table for details). The ages in the table show when an individual retires if they retire/have retired in the year given in the table; the trend in some countries is that in the future the age will increase gradually (where available, explanations are given in the section on notes), therefore one's year of birth determines when one has the age of retirement (e.g. in Romania women born in January 1955 had the retirement age in January 2015 at age 60; those born in January 1958 will retire in January 2019 at age 61; those born in January 1961 will retire in January 2023 at age 62; those born in January 1967 will retire in January 2030 at age 63).\n\nThe average of statutory retirement age in the 34 countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in 2014 was males 65 years and females 63.5 years, but the tendency all over the world is to increase the retirement age. This is also reflected by the findings that just over half the Asian investors surveyed region-wide said they agreed with raising the retirement age, with a quarter disagreeing and the remainder undecided.\n\nReforms tend to be phased-in slowly when the retirement age (or pension age) is increased, with grandfathering ensuring a gradual change. In contrast, when the age of retirement is decreased, changes are often brought about rapidly.\n\nOne such example of grandfathering are the transitional pension rules which were applied for staff aged 54 years or older, and to some extent for all staff in place, when in 2014 the retirement age of European civil servants was increased to 66 years of age.\n\nMen either retire later than women or at the same time. This is being addressed in some countries where the retirement ages are being equalised.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44716975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44716975", "title": "Royal Madras Yacht Club", "text": "Royal Madras Yacht Club\n\nThe Royal Madras Yacht Club (RMYC) is a yacht club located in Chennai, India.\n\nThe RMYC was founded by Sir Francis Spring in 1911. It was the first sailing club in southern India, and was originally based in what was called the Timber Pond area of the Madras harbour. Soon after its founding the club was granted royal patronage by George V, and it became one of the most prestigious sporting and social clubs in British India. Today the club is located at Springhaven Wharf, named after its founder.\n\nSporting sailing in the area first started in Ennore, situated north of Madras, in the early 1900s. Sir Francis Spring, the first Chairman of the Madras Port Trust, founded the Royal Madras Yacht Club in 1911. The first of the Inter-Club Regattas in India was held in 1924 between the Royal Colombo Yacht Club and the RMYC in Madras. It was accorded its 'Royal' status by the Emperor of India, George V, and the name was changed to The Royal Madras Yacht Club on 8 June 1933. The popular class at that time was the \"Bembridge\". The club quickly gained a reputation for its formal atmosphere and it became one of the leading sporting social clubs in the country. After a number of re-locations, the club is situated at its original premises selected by its founder, which has come to be known as the Springhaven Wharf.\n\nRecent decades have seen the facilities of the club improved and modernised. The then Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Radhakrishna Hariram Tahiliani, inaugurated the new Club House on 4 February 1987. The Club was affiliated to Yachting Association of India after the YAI was formed in 1960 and many national sailing events have since been held at the Club. The Club conducted many regattas in Chennai between 1961 and 1981, including the Madras Port Centenary Regatta in 1971. From 1963 to 1971, The Royal Madras Yacht Club conducted the Inter Club Regatta for the Yachting Association of India and in 1963 the club were runners-up. In 1971, the Club won both the individual and team events. At the international level, club members Deep Rekhi, Kuruvilla Abraham, Drona Narayanan, Navaz Currimbhoy, Sandeep Srikanth, Niloufer Jamal, Rohit Ashok and Varun Prabhakar represented India between 1970 and 2000. During the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami, the Club lost 12 Boats and its facilities were badly damaged.\n\nThe Club claims that its primary purpose is \"to promote the sport of sailing\" in all its aspects, and caters for sailors of all ages and abilities. It continues to provide facilities for national and intentional sailing events, in part due to the good sailing conditions off the coast of Chennai. The RMYC has a fleet of boats comprising Optimists, Lasers, Enterprise, Waterwags, 420 Class, 29ers, Omega and Seabirds. The Club has recently acquired a fleet of J80 boats which is the first in India.\n\nSome notable achievements:\nThe Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the Port Conservator of Chennai Port Trust are the patrons of the Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "309768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309768", "title": "SETI@home", "text": "SETI@home\n\nSETI@home was released to the public on May 17, 1999, making it the third large-scale use of distributed computing over the Internet for research purposes, after Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search (GIMPS) was launched in 1996 and distributed.net in 1997. Along with MilkyWay@home and Einstein@home, it is the third major computing project of this type that has the investigation of phenomena in interstellar space as its primary purpose.\n\nThe two original goals of SETI@home were:\n\nThe second of these goals is considered to have succeeded completely. The current BOINC environment, a development of the original SETI@home, is providing support for many computationally intensive projects in a wide range of disciplines.\n\nThe first of these goals has to date yielded no conclusive results: no evidence for ETI signals has been shown via SETI@home. However, the ongoing continuation is predicated on the assumption that the observational analysis is not an \"ill-posed\" one. The remainder of this article deals specifically with the original SETI@home observations/analysis. The vast majority of the sky (over 98%) has yet to be surveyed, and each point in the sky must be surveyed many times to exclude even a subset of possibilities.\n\nSETI@home searches for possible evidence of radio transmissions from extraterrestrial intelligence using observational data from the Arecibo radio telescope and the Green Bank Telescope. The data is taken \"piggyback\" or \"passively\" while the telescope is used for other scientific programs. The data is digitized, stored, and sent to the SETI@home facility. The data are then parsed into small chunks in frequency and time, and analyzed, using software, to search for any signals—that is, variations which cannot be ascribed to noise, and hence contain information. Using distributed computing, SETI@home sends the millions of chunks of data to be analyzed off-site by home computers, and then have those computers report the results. Thus what appears a difficult problem in data analysis is reduced to a reasonable one by aid from a large, Internet-based community of borrowed computer resources.\n\nThe software searches for five types of signals that distinguish them from noise:\n\nThere are many variations on how an ETI signal may be affected by the interstellar medium, and by the relative motion of its origin compared to Earth. The potential \"signal\" is thus processed in many ways (although not testing all detection methods nor scenarios) to ensure the highest likelihood of distinguishing it from the scintillating noise already present in all directions of outer space. For instance, another planet is very likely to be moving at a speed and acceleration with respect to Earth, and that will shift the frequency, over time, of the potential \"signal.\" Checking for this through processing is done, to an extent, in the SETI@home software.\n\nThe process is somewhat like tuning a radio to various channels, and looking at the signal strength meter. If the strength of the signal goes up, that gets attention. More technically, it involves a lot of digital signal processing, mostly discrete Fourier transforms at various chirp rates and durations.\n\nTo date, the project has not confirmed the detection of any ETI signals. However, it has identified several candidate targets (sky positions), where the spike in intensity is not easily explained as noisespots, for further analysis. The most significant candidate signal to date was announced on September 1, 2004, named Radio source SHGb02+14a.\n\nWhile the project has not reached the stated primary goal of finding extraterrestrial intelligence, it has proved to the scientific community that distributed computing projects using Internet-connected computers can succeed as a viable analysis tool, and even beat the largest supercomputers. However, it has not been demonstrated that the order of magnitude excess in computers used, many outside the home (the original intent was to use 50,000-100,000 \"home\" computers), has benefited the project scientifically. (For more on this, see below.)\n\nAstronomer Seth Shostak stated in 2004 that he expects to get a conclusive signal and proof of alien contact between 2020 and 2025, based on the Drake equation. This implies that a prolonged effort may benefit SETI@home, despite its (present) eighteen-year run without success in ETI detection.\n\nAnybody with an at least intermittently Internet-connected computer can participate in SETI@home by running a free program that downloads and analyzes radio telescope data.\n\nObservational data are recorded on 2-terabyte SATA hard disk drives at the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico, each holding about 2.5 days of observations, which are then sent to Berkeley. Arecibo does not have a broadband Internet connection, so data must go by postal mail to Berkeley. Once there, it is divided in both time and frequency domains \"work units\" of 107 seconds of data, or approximately 0.35 megabytes (350 kilobytes or 350,000 bytes), which overlap in time but not in frequency. These work units are then sent from the SETI@home server over the Internet to personal computers around the world to analyze.\n\nThe analysis software can search for signals with about one-tenth the strength of those sought in previous surveys, because it makes use of a computationally-intensive algorithm called \"coherent integration\" that no one else has had the computing power to implement.\n\nData is merged into a database using SETI@home computers in Berkeley. Interference is rejected, and various pattern-detection algorithms are applied to search for the most interesting signals.\n\nThe SETI@home distributed computing software runs either as a screensaver or continuously while a user works, making use of processor time that would otherwise be unused.\n\nThe initial software platform, now referred to as \"SETI@home Classic,\" ran from May 17, 1999, to December 15, 2005. This program was only capable of running SETI@home; it was replaced by Berkeley Open Infrastructure for Network Computing (BOINC), which also allows users to contribute to other distributed computing projects at the same time as running SETI@home. The BOINC platform will also allow testing for more types of signals.\n\nThe discontinuation of the SETI@home Classic platform has rendered older Macintosh computers running the classic Mac OS unsuitable for participating in the project.\n\nSETI@home is available for the Sony PlayStation 3 console.\n\nOn May 3, 2006, new work units for a new version of SETI@home called \"SETI@home Enhanced\" started distribution. Since computers now have the power for more computationally intensive work than when the project began, this new version is more sensitive by a factor of two concerning Gaussian signals and to some kinds of pulsed signals than the original SETI@home (BOINC) software. This new application has been optimized to the point where it will run faster on some work units than earlier versions. However, some work units (the best work units, scientifically speaking) will take significantly longer.\n\nIn addition, some distributions of the SETI@home applications have been optimized for a particular type of CPU. They are referred to as \"optimized executables\" and have been found to run faster on systems specific for that CPU. , most of these applications are optimized for Intel processors and their corresponding instruction sets.\n\nThe results of the data processing are normally automatically transmitted when the computer is next connected to the Internet; it can also be instructed to connect to the Internet as needed.\n\nWith over 5.2 million participants worldwide, the project is the distributed computing project with the most participants to date. The original intent of SETI@home was to utilize 50,000-100,000 home computers. Since its launch on May 17, 1999, the project has logged over two million years of aggregate computing time. On September 26, 2001, SETI@home had performed a total of 10 floating point operations. It was acknowledged by the 2008 edition of the \"Guinness World Records\" as the largest computation in history. With over 145,000 active computers in the system (1.4 million total) in 233 countries, , SETI@home had the ability to compute over 668 teraFLOPS. For comparison, the Tianhe-2 computer, which was the world's fastest supercomputer, was able to compute 33.86 petaFLOPS (approximately 50 times greater).\n\nThere were plans to get data from the Parkes Observatory in Australia to analyze the southern hemisphere. However, , these plans were not mentioned in the project's website. Other plans include a Multi-Beam Data Recorder, a Near Time Persistency Checker and Astropulse (an application that uses coherent dedispersion to search for pulsed signals). Astropulse will team with the original SETI@home to detect other sources, such as rapidly rotating pulsars, exploding primordial black holes, or as-yet unknown astrophysical phenomena. Beta testing of the final public release version of Astropulse was completed in July 2008, and the distribution of work units to higher spec machines capable of processing the more CPU intensive work units started in mid-July 2008.\n\nSETI@home users quickly started to compete with one another to process the maximum number of work units. Teams were formed to combine the efforts of individual users. The competition continued and grew larger with the introduction of BOINC.\n\nAs with any competition, attempts have been made to \"cheat\" the system and claim credit for work that has not been performed. To combat cheats, the SETI@home system sends every work unit to multiple computers, a value known as \"initial replication\" (currently 2). Credit is only granted for each returned work unit once a minimum number of results have been returned and the results agree, a value known as \"minimum quorum\" (currently 2). If, due to computation errors or cheating by submitting false data, not enough results agree, more identical work units are sent out until the minimum quorum can be reached. The final credit granted to all machines which returned the correct result is the same and is the lowest of the values claimed by each machine. The claimed credit by each machine for an identical work unit often varies due to minor differences in floating point arithmetic on different processors.\n\nSome users have installed and run SETI@home on computers at their workplaces — an act known as\n\"Borging\", after the assimilation-driven Borg of \"Star Trek\". In some cases, SETI@home users have misused company resources to gain work-unit results — with at least two individuals getting fired for running SETI@home on an enterprise production system. There is a thread in the newsgroup alt.sci.seti which bears the title \"Anyone fired for SETI screensaver\" and ran starting as early as September 14, 1999.\n\nOther users collect large quantities of equipment together at home to create \"SETI farms\", which typically consist of a number of computers consisting of only a motherboard, CPU, RAM and power supply that are arranged on shelves as diskless workstations running either Linux or old versions of Microsoft Windows \"headless\" (without a monitor).\n\nThere are other challenges to the project's future viability. \nLike any project of prolonged duration, there are factors that may result in its termination. Some of these are detailed below:\n\nAt present, SETI@home procures its data from the Arecibo Observatory facility operated by the National Astronomy and Ionosphere Center and administered by SRI International.\n\nThe decreasing operating budget for the observatory has created a shortfall of funds which has not been made up from other sources such as private donors, NASA, other foreign research institutions, nor private non-profit organizations such as SETI@home.\n\nHowever, in the overall longterm views held by many involved with the SETI project, any usable radio telescope could take over from Arecibo, as all the SETI systems are portable and relocatable.\n\nWhen the project launched, there were few alternative ways of donating computer time to research projects. However, there are now many other projects that are competing for such time.\n\nIn one documented case, an individual was fired for explicitly importing and using the SETI@home software on computers used for the U.S. state of Ohio. In another incident a school IT director resigned after his installation allegedly cost his school district $1 million in removal costs; however, other reasons for this firing included lack of communication with his superiors, not installing firewall software and alleged theft of computer equipment, leading a ZDNet editor to comment that \"the distributed computing nonsense was simply the best and most obvious excuse the district had to terminate his contract with cause\".\n\n, approximately one-third of the processing for the non-BOINC version of the software was performed on work or school based machines. As many of these computers will give reduced privileges to ordinary users, it is possible that much of this has been done by network administrators.\n\nTo some extent, this may be offset by better connectivity to home machines and increasing performance of home computers, especially those with GPUs, which have also benefited other distributed computing projects such as Folding@Home. The spread of mobile computing devices provides another large resource for distributed computing. For example, in 2012, Piotr Luszczek (a former doctoral student of Jack Dongarra), presented results showing that an iPad 2 matched the historical performance of a Cray-2 (the fastest computer in the world in 1985) on an embedded LINPACK benchmark.\n\nThere is currently no government funding for SETI research, and private funding is always limited. Berkeley Space Science Lab has found ways of working with small budgets, and the project has received donations allowing it to go well beyond its original planned duration, but it still has to compete for limited funds with other SETI projects and other space sciences projects.\n\nIn a December 16, 2007 plea for donations, SETI@home stated its present modest state and urged donations of $476,000 needed for continuation into 2008.\n\nA number of individuals and companies made unofficial changes to the distributed part of the software to try to produce faster results, but this compromised the integrity of all the results. As a result, the software had to be updated to make it easier to detect such changes, and discover unreliable clients. BOINC will run on unofficial clients; however, clients that return different and therefore incorrect data are not allowed, so corrupting the result database is avoided.\nBOINC relies on cross-checking to validate data but unreliable clients need to be identified, to avoid situations when two of these report the same invalid data and therefore corrupt the database.\nA very popular unofficial client (lunatic) allows users to take advantage of the special features provided by their processor(s) such as SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, and AVX to allow for faster processing. The only downside to this is that if the user selects features that their processor(s) do not support, the chances of bad results and crashes rise significantly. Tools (such as CPU-Z) are freely available to tell users what features are supported by their processor(s).\n\nCurrently, SETI@home is a test bed for further development not only of BOINC but of other hardware and software (database) technology. Under SETI@home processing loads these experimental technologies can be more challenging than expected, as SETI databases do not have typical accounting and business data or relational structures. The non-traditional database uses often do incur greater processing overheads and risk of database corruption and outright database failure. Hardware, software and database failures can (and do) cause dips in project participation.\n\nThe project has had to shut down several times to change over to new databases capable of handling more massive datasets. Hardware failure has proven to be a substantial source of project shutdowns—as hardware failure is often coupled with database corruption.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56749931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56749931", "title": "Secretary of Social Work of the President's Wife", "text": "Secretary of Social Work of the President's Wife\n\nThe Secretariat of Social Work of the Wife of the President of the Republic of Guatemala ( \"SOSEP\") is the organisation in charge of promoting and implementing social programs that benefit children, families and the community in general. SOSEP works in coordination with the First Lady of the Nation, and the current first lady is Patricia Marroquin, also follows the guidelines she has drawn. It was created on July 14, 1994, during the government of President Jorge Serrano Elías, through government Article 893-91.\n"}
{"id": "13366616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13366616", "title": "Semelai language", "text": "Semelai language\n\nSemelai is an Austroasiatic language spoken in the Malay Peninsula. It belongs to the Southern branch of the Aslian language subgrouping. The Semelai reside predominantly around the Bera, Serting and associated river systems in the states of Pahang, Negeri Sembilan and Johor.\n\nSemelai has 32 consonants and 20 vowels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "187464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187464", "title": "Sex in advertising", "text": "Sex in advertising\n\nSex in advertising is the use of sex appeal in advertising to help sell a particular product or service. According to research, sexually appealing imagery does not need to pertain to the product or service in question. A few examples of sexually appealing imagery include nudity, pin-up models, and muscular men. \"Sex sells\" became a controversial issue, with techniques for enlarging and titillating the audience challenging conventional moral standards.\n\nIn contemporary mainstream advertising (e.g., magazines, online, television), sex is present in promotional messages for a wide range of branded goods. Ads often feature provocative images of well-defined women (and men) in revealing outfits and postures selling things such as clothing, alcohol, beauty products, and fragrances. Advertisers such as Calvin Klein, Victoria's Secret, and Pepsi (just to name a few) use these images to cultivate a sexy media presence. Also, sexual information is used to promote mainstream products not traditionally associated with sex. For example, Dallas Opera's recent reversal of its declining ticket sales has been attributed to the marketing of the more lascivious parts of its performances.\n\nThe use of sex in advertising can be highly overt or extremely subtle and, on some level, subliminal. It ranges from relatively explicit displays of sexual acts and seductive behavior aimed at the viewer, to the use of double-meanings and underlying sexual references that are more subconscious. Sex in advertising relies on evolutionary processes and varies in effectiveness depending on the culture and gender of the receiver. The use of sex in advertising has been criticized for its tendency to objectify the female body and emphasizing various stereotypes.\n\n\"Gender Advertisements\", a 1979 book by Canadian social anthropologist, Erving Goffman is series of studies of visual communication and how gender representation in advertising communicates subtle, underlying messages about the sexual roles projected by masculine and feminine images in advertising. The book is a visual essay about sex roles in advertising and the differences, as well as the symbolism implied in the depictions of men and women in advertising.\n\nWhen couples are used in an advertisement, the sex-roles played by each also send out messages. The interaction of the couple may send out a message of relative dominance and power, and may stereotype the roles of one or both partners. Usually the message is very subtle, and sometimes advertisements attract interest by changing stereotypical roles. For example, companies including Spotify, AirBnB, Lynx and Amazon have used same-sex couples in adverts. These adverts appeal to same-sex couples; and they also create the image that these companies are tolerant and allow them to appeal to a wider consumer audience.\n\nAs many consumers and professionals think, sex is used to grab a viewer's attention but this is a short-term success. Whether using sex in advertising is effective depends on the product. About three-quarters of advertisements using sex to sell the product are communicating a product-related benefit, such as the product making its users more sexually attractive. \n\nThe use of physically attractive models in advertising is a form of sex in advertising. Physical attractiveness can be conveyed through facial beauty, physique, hair, skin complexion as well as by the model's inferred personality. This form of sex in advertising is effective as it draws attention and influences the overall feeling of the ad. Furthermore, such ads create an association between physical attractiveness and the product which sends a message to the consumer buying it that they will help them achieve that physique. The sexual arousal possibly elicited by physical attractiveness in adverts is thought to transfer onto the advertised product.\n\nMarketers often use tactics such as using sexual imagery in their advertisements to capture the consumer's attention for longer. Sex in advertising is also incorporated using hints of sexual behaviour. The latter is communicated by the models using flirtatious body language, open posture and making eye contact with the viewer. Sexual behaviour can also be displayed using several models interacting in a more or less sexual way. Sexual behaviour in advertising is used to arouse sexual interest from the viewer. Research has shown that sexual arousal elicited by an advert subsequently affects the overall ad evaluation and the chances of future purchase.\n\nFor example, in a Guess clothing advert, while the models are physically attractive, it is their behavior such as position, posture and facial expressions that communicate sexual interest to the viewer. Women are often shown as being shorter, put in the background of images, shown in more ‘feminine’ poses than men, and generally present a higher degree of ‘body display’ than men in print advertisements.\n\nSexual referents are a more implicit example of sex in advertising. Sex can be invoked in advertising using sexual double entendre or innuendos. The latter rely on the viewer to interpret them. They can be words or images that while not being explicitly sexual, trigger sexual thoughts from the viewer. Elements such as lighting, music, models’ behaviour and camera effects can contribute towards communicating implicit sexual meaning. Sexual referents are a powerful tool as they drive viewers to create sexual thoughts and interpretations of the product.\n\nWhile sexual referents are an implicit use of sex in advertising, as there may be nothing overtly sexual about them, they are placed by advertisers in the aim that viewers will interpret them as sexual.\n\nAn example of sexual referents is Volkswagen's campaign for the Beetle Cabriolet. The advert pixelates the non-existent roof to the car, similar to the pixilation that occurs when female's breasts are exposed in some forms of media. Volkswagen have a history of producing tongue-in-cheek adverts, and this one serves to compare their new convertible to a woman who goes topless at a beach. It implies the car is relaxed and fun, like someone who goes topless at a beach.\nSexual embeds are a controversial form of sex in advertising. They are a powerful technique that advertising agencies do not want consumers to consciously notice. They are subliminal elements that are detected as sexual information solely at the subconscious level. Sexual embeds can take the form of objects or words that, at the subconscious level (or when occasionally consciously identified) explicitly depict sexual acts or genitalia. For example, a perfume bottle could mimic a phallic shape and its positioning could suggest sexual intercourse. Embeds are especially effective as they unconsciously trigger sexual arousal in the consumer which drives motivation and goal directed behaviour such as purchase intention.\n\nAn example of this technique is a particular cake mix advertisement from Betty Crocker in which it would appear the chocolate icing on the heel of the cake has been painted to look like female genitalia. Amongst millions who viewed the commercial, very few will have noticed anything unusual; however, while this detail might not have been consciously perceived, it would have been interpreted sexually at the subconscious level. This advertisement, directed at women, puts an emphasis on the sense of touch by using words such as \"moist\", and on the whole the ad creates a subconscious association between the product and sexual pleasure.\n\nAfter women achieved the vote in the United States, Britain and Canada in the 1920s, advertising agencies exploited the new status of women. For example, they associated driving an automobile with masculinity, power, control, and dominance over a beautiful woman sitting alongside. More subtly, they published automobile ads in women's magazines, at a time when the vast majority of purchasers and drivers were in fact men. The new ads promoted themes of women's liberation while also delineating the limits of this freedom. Automobiles were more than practical devices. They were also highly visible symbols of affluence, mobility and modernity. The ads offered women a visual vocabulary to imagine their new social and political roles as citizens and to play an active role in shaping their identity as modern women.\n\nResearch into evolution explains the use of sex in advertising and the differences between genders, due to different mating strategies. It is the biological prerogative of the male to reproduce with as many females as possible, as this increases his chances of producing offspring. Because of this need to reproduce as much as possible, males search for cues which signal females are available and accessible, such as seductive behaviour, as well as cues that indicate good health, including facial symmetry, shiny hair and firm breasts. Advertisers can use these findings to help create an association between their product and the males needs by pairing the two.\n\nEvolutionary research into female sex strategies show that women are more concerned about long term prospects and mates resources, and less interested in typical male requirements of good health and accessibility. This explains why sexually explicit adverts tend to be directed at male consumers, whereas products aimed at a female market typically involve romantic imagery, and males who are wealthy, intelligent or powerful.\n\nThe earliest known use of sex in advertising is by the Pearl Tobacco brand in 1871, which featured a naked maiden on the package cover. In 1885, W. Duke & Sons inserted trading cards into cigarette packs that featured sexually provocative starlets. Duke grew to become the leading American cigarette brand by 1890.\n\nWoodbury's Facial Soap, a woman's beauty bar, was almost discontinued in 1911. The soap's sales decline was reversed, however, with ads containing images of romantic couples and promises of love and intimacy for those using the brand. Jovan Musk Oil, introduced in 1971, was promoted with sexual entendre and descriptions of the fragrance's sexual attraction properties. As a result, Jovane, Inc.'s revenue grew from $1.5 million in 1971 to $77 million by 1978.\n\nIn 1991, J.K. Chemicals Group asked the Bombay office of Lintas Bombay to develop a campaign for a new condom brand. The problem was that in the late 1940s, the Nehru government had launched a major population limitation program to reduce India's birthrate. The program was very heavy-handed, using coercion, and demanding that men use condoms. The product therefore signified an oppressive governmental intrusion. The agency head hit on the idea of a pleasurable condom, \"So when the user hears the brand name, he says, \"Wow. It's a turn on. Not a turn off.\" A brainstorming session hit on the name \"KamaSutra\", which refers to an ancient Sanskrit treatise on lovemaking and the sculptures at temples that illustrate the positions involved. The term was known to well-educated Indians, and that was the intended audience. Correctly predicting the huge impact the ad campaign would have, the agency purchased all the advertising space in the popular glamour magazine \"Debonair\" and filled it with erotic images of Bollywood actors and actresses promoting KamaSutra condoms. A television commercial followed featuring a steamy shower scene. The television ad was censored but the print campaign proved highly successful.\n\nThe Italian clothing company Benetton gained worldwide attention in the late 20th century for its saucy advertising, inspired by its art director Oliviero Toscani. He started with multicultural themes, tied together under the campaign \"United Colors of Benetton\" then became increasingly provocative with interracial groupings, and unusual sexual images, such as a nun kissing a priest.\nCalvin Klein of Calvin Klein Jeans has been at the forefront of this movement to use sex in advertising, having claimed, \"Jeans are about sex. The abundance of bare flesh is the last gasp of advertisers trying to give redundant products a new identity.\" Calvin Klein's first controversial jeans advertisement showed a 15-year-old Brooke Shields, in Calvin Klein jeans, saying, \"Do you want to know what gets between me and my Calvins? Nothing.\" Calvin Klein has also received media attention for its controversial advertisements in the mid-1990s. Several of Calvin Klein's advertisements featured images of teenage models, some \"who were reportedly as young as 15\" in overly sexual and provocative poses. Although Klein insisted that these advertisements were not pornographic, some considered the campaign as a form of \"soft porn\" or \"kiddie porn\" that was exploitative, shocking, and suggestive. In 1999, Calvin Klein was the subject of more controversy when it aired advertisements of young children who were only wearing the brand's underwear. This \"kiddie underwear ad campaign\" was pulled only one day after it aired as a result of public outlash. A spokesperson from Calvin Klein insisted that these ads were intended \"to capture the same warmth and spontaneity that you find in a family snapshot.\"\n\nGallup & Robinson, an advertising and marketing research firm, has reported that in more than 50 years of testing advertising effectiveness, it has found the use of the erotic to be a significantly above-average technique in communicating with the marketplace, \"...although one of the more dangerous for the advertiser. Weighted down with taboos and volatile attitudes, sex is a Code Red advertising technique ... handle with care ... seller beware; all of which makes it even more intriguing.\" This research has led to the popular idea that \"sex sells\".\n\nMarketing strategies centred around sex have been successful. Abercrombie & Fitch used sex to market their brand in a variety of ways, including store greeters dressed only in underwear, models working in store and topless models on the bags. Employees were hired based on physical attractiveness. This strategy was aimed at teenagers and young adults, who are the most impressionable consumer group, and who have vast amounts of disposable money. During the late 1990s, the company produced a magazine/catalogue (magalog), featuring semi-nude or nude models. The magalog was a success, with A&F issuing over 1.5 million copies. Despite being somewhat paradoxical, the use of sexual branding raised their revenue from $85 million in 1993 to $1.35 billion in 2002. A&F have expressed that they will move away from sexual marketing, and focus on showcasing product and trends.\n\nSexuality in advertising is extremely effective at attracting the consumer's attention and once it has their attention, to remember the message. This solves the greatest problem in advertising of getting the potential buyer to look at and remember the advertisement. However the introduction of attraction and especially sexuality into an ad often distracts from the original message and can cause an adverse effect of the consumer wanting to take action.\n\nThere are some studies that contradict the theory that sex is an effective tool for improving finances and gathering attention. A study from 2009 found that there was a negative correlation between nudity and sexuality in movies, and box office performance and critical acclaim. A 2005 research by MediaAnalyzer has found that less than 10% of men recalled the brand of sexual ads, compared to more than 19% of non sexual ads; a similar result was found in women (10.8% vs. 22.3%). It is hypothesized by that survey, that this is a result of a general numbing caused by over use of sexual stimuli in advertising.\n\nIn another experimental study conducted on 324 undergraduate college students, Brad Bushman examined brand recall for neutral, sexual or violent commercials embedded in neutral, sexual or violent TV programs. He found that brand recall was higher for participants who saw neutral TV programs and neutral commercials versus those who saw sexual or violent commercials embedded in sexual or violent TV programs. Other studies have found that sex in television is extremely overrated and does not sell products in ads. Unless sex is related to the product (such as beauty, health or hygiene products) there is not clear effect.\n\nUsing sex may attract one market demographic while repelling another at the same time. The overt use of sexuality to promote breast cancer awareness, through fundraising campaigns like \"I Love Boobies\" and \"Save the Ta-tas\", is effective at reaching younger women, who are at low risk of developing breast cancer, but angers and offends some breast cancer survivors and older women, who are at higher risk of developing breast cancer.\n\nRecent research indicates that the use of sexual images of females in ads negatively affects women's interest. Research shows that females were more likely than males to be portrayed as nude, wearing sexual clothing or only a partial amount of clothing. A study from the University of Minnesota in 2013 of how printed ads with sexual content affects women clearly showed that women are not attracted to them except in the case of products being luxurious and expensive. Besides alienating women there is a serious risk that the audience in general will reduce support to organisations that uses the sexual images of women without a legitimate reason.\n\nFurther research found that men have a positive attitude to sexual adverts, whereas women have a negative response to them, this study used an advert with both a male and female. This was thought to be because women had lower average sex drives than men. Another theory for this difference is that evolution has led men to seek casual sex, contrary to women who value commitment and intimacy in the context of a sexual relationship. In adverts sex tends to be represented in its own right and not as part of a relationship leading to the difference in responses. This theory is supported by research which found that women respond less negatively to sexual adverts when it is in the context of gift giving from a man to a women. Therefore, react less negatively when the sexuality of the advert is the context of commitment. Men respond more negatively to the sexual advert when it involves gift giving as it emphasises them having to spend money in a relationship. This is in line with evolutionary theory that women value men for their resources and men value women for sex and fertility Further research found that even in men recall of the advert is worsened by sexual content, as they focus on breasts and legs but not on the product.\n\nIn order to be consistent, brands use standardized campaigns across various countries. Cultural differences have been found in response to sexual adverts. A 2016 study by the Korea Internet Advertising Foundation (KIAF) noted that 94.5% of South Korean high schoolers were familiar with sex-driven ads, 83.4% of adults thought such ads have negative influence on society, and 91.2% said there are too many of such ads. A KIAF official noted that government legislation aimed to reduce such ads is not effective due to its ambiguity. Research has found that sex is used in adverts more in France than in the United States because they are more sexually liberated and so receptive to its use in advertising.\n\nIn the 21st century, the use of increasingly explicit sexual imagery in consumer-oriented print ads have become almost commonplace. Ads for jeans, perfumes and many other products have featured provocative images that were designed to elicit sexual responses from as large a cross section of the population as possible, to shock by their ambivalence, or to appeal to repressed sexual desires, which are thought to carry a stronger emotional load. Increased tolerance, more tempered censorship, emancipatory developments and increasing buying power of previously neglected appreciative target groups in rich markets (mainly in the West) have led to a marked increase in the share of attractive flesh 'on display'.\n\n\"Ad Age\", a magazine delivering news, analysis, and data on marketing and media, published a list of Top 100 most effective advertising of the century, out of the 100, only 8 involved use of sex.\n\nUnruly Media's viral video tracker lists the Top-20 most viewed car commercial viral videos. Only 1 uses sex, while the No.1 spot was held by VW's \"The Force\" ad. The overall top-spot (across all product segments), was held by VW's \"Fun Theory\" campaign, the most viewed viral video as of October 2011.\n\nIn international perspective, a 2008 comparison of nudity in television advertising in Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, South Korea, Thailand, and the United States reveals that China and the United States have the most demure ads, while Germany and Thailand exposed more of the female body. There is little variation in male undress.\n\nHistorically, sex in advertising has focused on heterosexual gender roles, but there are increasing examples of sex being used to advertise to the LGBT community. The New Zealand Aids Foundation's Love Your Condom (LYC) campaign used provocative images of males alongside captions such as \"Riding hard?\", \"Bear hunting?\" and \"Going deep?\", followed by the hashtag #loveyourcondom. It was hoped by using images explicitly directed towards homosexual men, their use of condoms would increase, which would help decrease rates of HIV transmission amongst gay and bisexual men. The campaign has been successful, with a 12% in new HIV infections among MSM in New Zealand.\n\nIn a study conducted at the University of Georgia in 2003, researchers looked at sexual advertisements in magazines over the span of the last 30 years. The rate at which sex in advertising is being used increased from 15% to 27% in the advertisements that the researchers looked at. Their reasoning behind the increase is because they believe sex still sells, specifically with “low-risk products impulse purchases.” The study also mentions “alcohol, entertainment and beauty are the main product categories that use sex in advertising.\n\nThe use of sex in advertising has been criticized for its tendency to reinforce sexist stereotypes. Since the late 1970s, many researchers have determined that advertisements depict women as having less social power than men, but the ways in which females are displayed as less powerful than men have evolved over time. In modern times, advertisements have displayed women's expanding roles in the professional realm and importance in business backgrounds. However, as this change occurred there has been a substantial increase in the number of images that showcase women as less sexually powerful than men and as objects of men's desire.\n\nFurthermore, sex in advertising has been criticised for its emphasis on the importance of physical attractiveness and role as mate. This emphasis has led men and women to value intelligence and general skills less. The rise in awareness of sexism portrayed in these types of adverts has led to stricter advertising policies. One group that enforces these rules is the Advertising Women of New York association. Adverts using highly sexual images containing nudity and unrealistic physiques can lead to self-objectification. In turn, this can lead to shame, disgust, appearance anxiety, eating disorders and depression. The increase in self-objectification caused by the use of sex in advertising has been found in women and men. The latter is not surprising with the increased sexual portrayal of men in advertising.\n\nSex in advertising is an accepted marketing technique however it is not unusual for it to cause backlash when it breaks social norms. In 1995, the Calvin Klein advertising campaign (see section on Calvin Klein, above) that showed teenage models in provocative poses wearing Calvin Klein underwear and jeans was deemed inappropriate and shocking. The ads were withdrawn when parents and child welfare groups threatened to protest and Hudson stores did not want their stores associated with the ads. It was reported that the US Justice Department was investigating the ad campaign for possible violations of federal child pornography and exploitation laws. The Justice Department subsequently decided not to prosecute Calvin Klein for these alleged violations.\n\nSkyy Vodka is known for using sex in their advertising. In a specific Skyy Vodka advertisement, which was a part of Skyy Vodkas “SKYY SEXY” campaign in 2010, a woman's legs are wrapped around a bottle of Skyy Vodka. Bruce Lee Livingston, of the Marin Institute stated “This is just ridiculous, It’s a porn-a-hol”. He continues to mention its affect on underage kids. “Underage kids will look at this and associate sexual prowess with drinking Skyy.” Skyy Vodka’s marketing director, Maura McGinn, defended the advertisement by stating, “It’s the content of our product...We’re an adult product consumed mostly in the evenings and in flirtatious situations.” McGinn even defended the advertisement when pitted against the Distilled Spirits Council of the U.S. ad code that states, “Beverage alcohol advertising and marketing materials should not rely upon sexual prowess or sexual success as a selling point for the brand.” McGinn stated “There is nothing in our ad that would suggest we are making such a claim.”\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4585536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4585536", "title": "Therapy freedom", "text": "Therapy freedom\n\nTherapy freedom is the freedom of physicians to apply whichever therapy their medical knowledge makes them believe to be appropriate. That often means:\n\nTherapy freedom, however, is limited to cases of no treatment existing that is both well-established and more efficacious.\n\nTherapy freedom is established in Germany, where it is known as \"\".\n"}
{"id": "21406728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21406728", "title": "Thomas Edwin Blanton Jr.", "text": "Thomas Edwin Blanton Jr.\n\nThomas Edwin Blanton Jr. (born 1938) is an American terrorist and convicted felon, currently serving a life sentence for his role as conspirator in the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing in 1963 which killed four young African-American girls (Carole Robertson, Cynthia Wesley, Addie Mae Collins, and Denise McNair). Blanton, along with Bobby Frank Cherry, was convicted in a highly-publicized trial in 2001.\n\nBlanton is the son of Thomas Edwin \"Pops\" Blanton Sr., who was a notorious racist in the Birmingham, Alabama area.\n\nBlanton was convicted of murder in 2001 and sentenced to life in prison, with the eventual possibility of parole. His Alabama Department of Corrections AIS is 00216691.\n\nHe is housed at St. Clair Correctional Facility in Springville, Alabama. Blanton went before the parole board on August 3, 2016. Parole was denied and deferred until 2021.\n\n"}
{"id": "24255878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24255878", "title": "Thracian clothing", "text": "Thracian clothing\n\nThracian clothing refers to types of clothing worn mainly by Thracians, Dacians but also by some Greeks. Its best literal descriptions are given by Herodotus and Xenophon in his Anabasis. Depictions are found in a great number of Greek vases and there are a few Persian representations as well. In contrast to shapes and patterns we have very little evidence on the colours used.\n\nThe Thracians wore a tunic, a cloak called \"zeira\" (Ancient Greek: ζείρα), a cap called \"alopekis\" (Ancient Greek: Αλωπεκίς) made from the scalp of a fox with the ears visible, other Phrygian cap styles, and fawnskin boots called \"embades\" (Ancient Greek: Εμβάδες). Thracian clothing was sometimes decorated with intricate patterns. While patterned clothing was not unique to Thracians, the \"zeira\", \"embades\" and the \"alopekis\" probably originated from them. Clothing was made from hemp, flax or wool. The Dacians and the Getae wore pantaloons called bracae (Ancient Greek,\"\"ἀναξυρίδες\" or \"θύλακοι\").These loose pants were described in Euripides work as “variegated bags” (Ancient Greek,\"τοὺς θυλάκους τοὺς ποικίλους\"\") and may have appeared highly ridiculous to the Greeks, although Ovid mentions the adoption of them by the descendants of some of the Greek colonists on the Euxine.These trousers were common in many nations.\n\nIn the north only noble Thracians, the \"Zibythides\" and noble Dacians, the \"Pileati\", would wear caps. Despite this Herodotus writes that all Thracians in the Persian army wore foxskin caps and multicoloured mantles. Northern tribes in general, both Thracians and Daco-Getians, wore clothes similar to Scythians.\n\nThe Thracians at Pydna in 168 BC wore black tunics. The Kausia (Ancient Greek: Καυσία) was adopted from the Macedonians. Although many Thracian tribes began to incorporate Greek garbs to their fashion, they still largely retained their own styles of clothing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55571473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55571473", "title": "USA Gymnastics sex abuse scandal", "text": "USA Gymnastics sex abuse scandal\n\nThe USA Gymnastics sex abuse scandal involves the sexual abuse of female athletes—primarily minors—over the past two decades, in which over 368 individuals have been sexually assaulted \"by gym owners, coaches, and staff working for gymnastics programs across the country\".\n\nParticularly, Larry Nassar, a former USA Gymnastics (USAG) national team osteopathic physician, has been named in hundreds of lawsuits filed by athletes who said that Nassar sexually abused them under the pretense of providing medical treatment. Since the first public statements were made in September 2016, more than 265 women, including former USAG national team members Jamie Dantzscher, Morgan White, Jeanette Antolin, McKayla Maroney, Aly Raisman, Maggie Nichols, Gabby Douglas, Simone Biles, Jordyn Wieber, Sabrina Vega, Ashton Locklear, Kyla Ross, Madison Kocian, Amanda Jetter, Tasha Schwikert, Mattie Larson, Bailie Key, Kennedy Baker, and Alyssa Baumann have accused Nassar of sexually assaulting them. It is one of the biggest sexual abuse scandals in sports history. On July 11, 2017, Nassar pleaded guilty to federal child pornography charges; he was sentenced to 60 years in prison on December 7, 2017. On November 22, 2017, he pleaded guilty to seven charges of first-degree sexual assault and entered another guilty plea a week later to three additional charges of sexual assault. On January 24, 2018, Nassar was sentenced to an additional 40 to 175 years in prison, set to run after Nassar serves the 60-year federal prison sentence for child pornography. On February 5, 2018, Nassar received another 40 to 125 years.\n\nAn investigation over the period of nine months found that \"predatory coaches were allowed to move from gym to gym, undetected by a lax system of oversight, or dangerously passed on by USA Gymnastics-certified gyms\". USAG and Michigan State University—where Nassar was a faculty member—have been accused of enabling Nassar's abuse and are named as defendants in civil lawsuits that former gymnasts have filed against Nassar.\n\nBesides Nassar, other coaches across the country were involved in the scandal, in localities such as Michigan, Pennsylvania, California, Rhode Island, and Indiana.\n\nOn May 16, 2018, it was announced that the survivors would be awarded the Arthur Ashe Courage Award.\n\nIn 1990, USAG started a list of permanently banned coaches, including for sex abuse. In 1992, Robert Dean Head, a USAG coach in Kentucky, pled guilty to raping a 12-year old. In 2007, USAG made background checks mandatory for all coaches. Don Peters, the national coach for the 1984 Olympic team, was banned from USAG in 2011, after two former gymnasts accused him of sexual abuse. In 2016, Olympic team doctor Larry Nassar was arrested on charges of sex abuse and possession of child pornography. Multiple victims of sexual abuse have filed lawsuits against USAG and other parties.\n\nThere have been several incidents where USA Gymnastics has dismissed warnings about coaches. In a 2013 lawsuit USA Gymnastics officials admitted under oath that allegations of sexual abuse were routinely dismissed as hearsay, unless they came directly from a victim or victim's parent. USA Gymnastics waited for four years before reporting Marvin Sharp to police. He was charged and committed suicide in prison. Mark Schiefelbein was charged in 2002 for molesting a 10-year-old girl. After prosecutors subpoenaed records, they learned that USA gymnastics had received prior complaints against Schiefelbein, who is serving a 36-year sentence. There had been a complaint about James Bell on file for at least five years before he was arrested in 2003 for molesting three young gymnasts. Bell pleaded guilty and is serving eight years in prison.\n\nAt least four complaints were made against Georgia coach William McCabe, but USAG did not report the allegations to police. One gym owner had warned that McCabe \"should be locked in a cage before someone is raped\". McCabe continued coaching for seven years, until one gymnast's mother went to the FBI with emails that had been sent to her 11-year-old daughter. McCabe was charged with molesting gymnasts, secretly videotaping girls changing clothes and posting their naked pictures on the Internet. He pleaded guilty and is serving a 30-year sentence. \nA judge released over 5,600 pages of court records in the McCabe case after the \"Indianapolis Star\" requested the documents, which detail how USA Gymnastics has responded to various sexual misconduct allegations that were made against coaches over a 10-year period from 1996 to 2006. The released documents included a letter which says a USAG regional chairman spoke to the organization's president in support of allowing a convicted sex offender to keep his membership. Other documents include sexual abuse complaints that were filed against 54 coaches. The documents revealed that some of coaches were not banned from the sport despite being convicted of the crimes. USAG has since said that it has banned 37 of the 54 coaches.\n\nIn a deposition, then USAG President Steve Penny said \"To the best of my knowledge, there's no duty to report if you are – if you are a third-party to some allegation ... You know, that lies with the person who has first-hand knowledge.\" Penny resigned in March 2017.\n\nLarry Nassar was a licensed osteopathic physician and the national team sports-medicine doctor for USA Gymnastics. He also ran a clinic and gymnastics club at Michigan State University, where he was a faculty member. USAG fired Nassar in 2015 \"after learning of athlete concerns\".\n\nIn September 2016, \"The Indianapolis Star\" revealed that Rachael Denhollander was one of two former gymnasts who had made accusations of sexual abuse against Nassar. Following those criminal complaints, Michigan State University reassigned Nassar from his clinical and teaching duties and fired him later that month. Since then, over 250 women and girls have accused Nassar of sexually abusing them. According to those reports, Nassar committed sexual assaults during medical examinations. The molestations ranged from inserting a finger in the gymnasts' vaginas and anuses to fondling their breasts and genitalia. These were criminal acts irrespective of consent, because the victims were minors. Nassar initially denied the charges, claiming that he was performing legitimate medical procedures. In February 2017, three former gymnasts, Jeanette Antolin, Jessica Howard and Jamie Dantzscher, gave an interview with \"60 Minutes\" in which they accused Nassar of sexually abusing them. The gymnasts also alleged that the \"emotionally abusive environment\" at the national team training camps run by Béla and Márta Károlyi at the Karolyi Ranch near Huntsville, Texas, gave Nassar an opportunity to take advantage of the gymnasts and made them afraid to speak up about the abuse. Rachael Denhollander, one of the first women to publicly accuse Nassar, said in court in May 2017 that Nassar sexually abused her on five doctor's visits in 2000, when she was 15 years of age.\n\nOlympic gold medalist McKayla Maroney, using the #MeToo hashtag on Twitter, said that Nassar repeatedly molested her, starting when she was 13 years old and until she retired from the sport in 2016. Maroney filed a lawsuit against Nassar, Michigan State University, the United States Olympic Committee and USAG. The lawsuit accused USAG of covering up the sexual abuse by paying Maroney $1.25 million to sign a non-disclosure agreement.\n\nDuring a \"60 Minutes\" interview, Olympic gold medalist Aly Raisman also accused Nassar of sexually abusing her. Raisman stated that Nassar molested her when she was 15 years of age. Gabby Douglas drew criticism from fellow Olympic teammate Simone Biles and others for sending a tweet that they interpreted as criticizing Raisman and of \"victim-shaming\", stating that \"dressing in a provocative/sexual way incites the wrong crowd\". Douglas later apologized for the tweet, and said she was also a victim of Nassar's alleged abuse.\n\nFormer national team member Maggie Nichols accused Nassar of abusing her; she documented the ways he \"groomed\" her by connecting with her on Facebook and complimenting her appearance on numerous occasions. It was also reported that it was Nichols' coach, Sarah Jantzi, who first reported Nassar to USAG on June 17, 2015, after overhearing Nichols talk to other gymnasts, later revealed to be Raisman and Alyssa Baumann, about Nassar's behavior. Simone Biles came forward shortly after with firsthand accounts of how she too had been sexually abused by Nassar. Jordyn Wieber made a statement at Nassar's court sentencing in which she also accused Nassar of sexually abusing her during her time at USAG. On May 1, 2018, former national team member Sabrina Vega also accused Nassar of sexual abuse, claiming she was abused hundreds of times, beginning when she was 12. In August 2018, UCLA gymnasts and 2012 and 2016 Olympians, Kyla Ross and Madison Kocian came forward as vicitms of Nassar on CBS. The following month, Alabama Crimson Tide gymnasts Bailie Key and Amanda Jetter also came forward with accusations against Nassar. In October Tasha Schwikert, a member of the 2000 US Olympics team, came forward as a survivor and claimed that Steve Penny pressed her to publicly support USA Gymnastics at the height of the Nassar scandal. In November, Florida Gators gymnasts Kennedy Baker and Alyssa Baumann came forward with allegations against Nassar, with Baker saying she was even abused during the 2012 Olympic Trials.\n\nIn November 2016, Nassar was initially charged with sexual assault of a child. Michigan attorney general Bill Schuette stated that the assaults began when the victim was 6 years old in 1998, to 2005. He pleaded not guilty to three charges of first-degree criminal sexual conduct against a minor during his first court appearance. The following month, he was also indicted on federal child pornography charges. According to the FBI, over 37,000 images and videos of child pornography were seized from Nassar's home, including a GoPro video of Nassar allegedly molesting girls in a swimming pool. Nassar pleaded guilty to three federal child pornography charges on July 11, 2017, and was given three consecutive 20-year prison sentences by U.S. District Judge Janet T. Neff on December 7, 2017.\n\nOn November 15, 2017, it was announced that Nassar would plead guilty to counts of sexual assault in Ingham County (which contains most of East Lansing, the home city for Michigan State) and Eaton County in Michigan. At the time, he faced a total of 22 charges, 15 in Ingham and 7 in Eaton. Among the allegations was that under the guise of providing legitimate treatment, he had instead molested 7 girls at his home and at a clinic on the MSU campus. It also stated that Nassar would enter a guilty plea in Ingham County on November 22 and would then plead guilty in Eaton County on November 29 and would serve at least 25 years in prison for these crimes. Others who reported assaults by Nassar to the police were permitted to make victim impact statements during sentencing.\n\nDuring his appearance before Judge Rosemarie Aquilina in Ingham County Circuit Court, and under the terms of his plea agreement, Nassar pleaded guilty to seven counts of criminal sexual conduct charges with a minimum sentence of 25 to 40 years in prison. Three of the victims were under the age of 13 and three ranged in age from 13 to 15. Nassar issued a short statement in which he apologized and said that he was hopeful the community could move forward: \"For all those involved, I'm so horribly sorry that this was like a match that turned into a forest fire out of control. I have no animosity toward anyone. I just want healing. ... We need to move forward in a sense of growth and healing and I pray (for) that\". More than 150 women made statements during his week-long sentencing hearing before Nassar was handed a state prison sentence of 40 to 175 years on January 24, 2018. During his federal sentencing, Judge Neff had previously ordered that any state prison term run consecutive with Nassar's federal sentence. Judge Aquilina quoted a letter he sent her prior to sentencing, in which he blamed his accusers. She described him as a dangerous individual who showed little remorse and said that she \"signed [his] death warrant\".\n\nDuring his Eaton County Circuit Court appearance, Nassar pleaded guilty to engaging in sexual misconduct with three children under the age of 16. On February 5, 2018, Judge Janet Cunningham sentenced Nassar to an additional 40 to 125 years in state prison. This sentence will run consecutive to Nassar's federal sentence but concurrent to his previous state sentence from Ingham County.\n\nOn October 17, 2018, former USA Gymnastics CEO Steve Penny was arrested on charge of evidence tampering in Larry Nassar case. He was accused of removing documents linked to the Larry Nassar sexual abuse case from the Karolyi Ranch gymnastics training facility in Texas. On October 29 Penny entered a plea of not guilty.\n\nOn November 20, 2018, former Michigan State University president Lou Anna Simon was charged with two felonies and two misdemeanor counts for lying to police. She is accused of falsely telling investigators she did not know the nature of a Title IX complaint against Nassar in 2014. She could face up to four years in prison on each felony charge.\n\nWith regard to the USA Gymnastics sex abuse scandal in its entirety, USAG stated that \"Nothing is more important to USA Gymnastics, the Board of Directors and CEO Steve Penny than protecting athletes, which requires sustained vigilance by everyone — coaches, athletes, parents, administrators and officials. We are saddened when any athlete has been harmed in the course of his or her gymnastics career.\" The USAG also said that it required criminal background checks for all of its coaches. An independent investigation by \"The Indianapolis Star\", however, found that \"some coaches are fired at gym after gym without being tracked or flagged by USA Gymnastics, or losing their membership with the organization\".\n\nSpecifically with respect to Nassar, USA Gymnastics (USAG) said that its executives first learned of an athlete's concern regarding him in June 2015. Following an investigation, Nassar was fired and reported to the FBI in July 2015. In March 2017, USAG president Steve Penny resigned amid accusations of negligence and calls for his dismissal. In response to the scandal, USAG adopted reforms based on a June 2017 report by an investigator hired to review the organization's policies and practices. One of the changes is a requirement that all USAG members report any suspected sexual misconduct to appropriate authorities and the US Center for SafeSport.\n\nUSAG has received criticism over its handling of the sexual abuse allegations against Nassar. According to a 2016 investigation reported by \"The Indianapolis Star\", top executives at USAG routinely dismissed sexual abuse allegations against coaches and failed to alert authorities. United States Senators criticized the organization's leadership for waiting five weeks before reporting Nassar to authorities after first learning of allegations involving Nassar in 2015. Juliet Macur of \"The New York Times\" was critical of USAG for not attending the 2017 congressional hearing on protecting young athletes from sexual abuse, and noted that the organization had not apologized for its role in the scandal. Two-time Olympian Aly Raisman was also critical of USAG's response to the scandal, pointing out that the reported $1 million severance package given to former president Penny could have been used to create a program to help the affected athletes.\n\nAmid the sex abuse scandal, USAG lost several major corporate sponsors, including Procter & Gamble, Kellogg's, Under Armour, The Hershey Company and AT&T. Procter & Gamble was the name sponsor of the National Championships for five seasons, AT&T sponsored the American Cup since 2011, and Kellogg's sponsored a series nationwide tours. Marketing revenues account for approximately 35% of USAG annual revenues, or about $9.4 million. Kellogg's and Procter & Gamble were two of the largest sponsors associated with the organization.\n\nIn January 2018, USAG officially cut ties with Karolyi Ranch, the former national training center for the national team and a site where Nassar sexually assaulted many gymnasts. Later that month the Karolyi Ranch announced on its website that the facility had permanently closed. On January 22, 2018, three members of the USAG Board of Directors resigned. Following Nassar's sentencing on January 24, 2018, the United States Olympic Committee (USOC) published an open letter calling for the resignations of the remaining USAG Board of Directors, stating that failure to comply with the request would result in the USOC taking steps to decertify the governing body. The USOC also announced that it was launching a third-party investigation into the scandal. On January 31, USAG received resignations from every member of its Board of Directors, complying with USOC's demands.\n\nOn February 1, it was revealed that the USOC was aware of the abuse claims in 2015, prior to when they claim they first learned of it in 2016. Reports surfaced that then-USAG President Steve Penny called USOC Chief Executive Scott Blackmun in July 2015 revealing that an investigation uncovered possible criminal behavior by Nassar against Olympic athletes. Additionally in September, 2015, Penny emailed USOC Security Chief detailing the allegations against Nassar.\n\nJohn Geddert, team coach of the 2012 London Olympic team and personal coach of Jordyn Wieber, retired following an announcement by USAG that he had been suspended as a result of his connection to Nassar. Geddert operated two gyms that employed Nassar, including Twistars. Ownership of Twistars has been transferred to Geddert's wife Katherine. Gymnasts have reported being abused by Nassar at Twistars. Gymnasts have also accused Geddert of being abusive and dismissive of their injuries. One gymnast said Geddert had thrown her onto the low bar hard enough to tear the muscles in her stomach and end her career. They have said that Geddert's abuse left them vulnerable to Nassar's manipulation.\n\nOn February 2, Valeri Liukin resigned as national team coordinator. Later that month, the USOC CEO Scott Blackmun also resigned.\n\nOn February 28, Raisman filed a lawsuit against USA Gymnastics and the USOC claiming both organizations \"knew or should have known\" about the ongoing abuse. On May 1, former national team member Sabrina Vega sued USAG, the USOC, and Béla and Márta Károlyi, claiming they ignored signs about Nassar's behavior or should have known he posed a risk to the gymnasts he treated.\n\nOn September 4, USA Gymnastics CEO and President, Kerry Perry, resigned. This came after USOC CEO Sarah Hirshland called for a change in USAG leadership and the United States Elite Coaches Association called for a vote of no confidence in Perry. On October 12, Mary Bono was appointed interim president and chief executive officer of USA Gymnastics. She resigned four days later after many people, including Raisman and Biles, expressed criticism over choosing Bono as interim president due to her ties with her former law firm, Faegre Baker Daniels, the same firm that helped cover up Nassar's crimes.\n\nOn November 5, 2018, the USOC announced that it was starting the process to decertify USAG as the national governing body for gymnastics in the United States.\n\nMichigan State University said that it first received a complaint against Nassar in 2014. A Title IX investigation into the complaint found no violation of policy and Nassar was allowed to continue treating patients under certain agreed upon restrictions as stipulated by MSU College of Osteopathic Medicine Dean William Strampel. However no monitoring was instituted. After allegations against Nassar were made public by \"The Indianapolis Star\" in September 2016, Nassar was fired by Michigan State for violating the 2014 agreement.\n\nThe university faces lawsuits from 144 local and MSU athletes who say they were sexually assaulted by Larry Nassar. Former Michigan State University gymnastics coach Kathie Klages was suspended on February 13, 2017, and retired the next day, amidst the sexual abuse investigation of Nassar. Klages has been accused of dismissing sexual abuse complaints by former gymnasts against Nassar and pressuring them to stay silent. According to court documents, Klages was reportedly aware of sexual abuse allegations against Nassar as early as 1997.\n\nOn December 12, 2017, Strampel resigned as dean and went on medical leave as faculty. Mediation ended in the civil lawsuits. Thus the MSU Board of Trustees voted to establish a $10 million fund to reimburse victims of Nassar for counseling services. MSU President Lou Anna Simon also apologized to the Nassar victims and donated her just approved raise to the Roy J. and Lou Anna K. Simon Scholarship fund while declining it in the future. Kaylee Lorincz, Nassar's Ingham County criminal case \"Victim E\", addressed the board wanting the university to change not for them to focus on litigation. Lorincz did not think the apology was \"heartfelt\".\n\nDuring Nassar's sentencing in January 2018, 8 former MSU athletes, including those from the gymnastics, softball, volleyball, rowing, and track and field programs, gave victim impact statements accusing MSU staff of dismissing their sexual abuse complaints against Nassar. On January 23, 2018, the National Collegiate Athletic Association formally opened an investigation into the university's handling of sexual abuse allegations against Nassar. On January 24, 2018, amid backlash over the university's role in the scandal, the Michigan House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly for a non-binding resolution sponsored by Rep. Adam Zemke, that called for the university's Board of Trustees to fire President Lou Anna Simon if she did not resign. Simon resigned later that same day. Two days later, MSU athletic director Mark Hollis retired.\n\nOn January 27, 2018, ESPN's \"Outside the Lines\" reported that their investigation \"found a pattern of widespread denial, inaction and information suppression of such allegations by officials ranging from campus police to the Spartan athletic department\" that went \"well beyond\" the Nassar case. According to the investigation, at least 16 football players have been accused of sexual assault or violence against women since 2007, the team's first season under current head coach Mark Dantonio. The investigation also included two previously publicized allegations of similar conduct by members of the men's basketball program, as well as one never-before-publicized allegation made by former Michigan State counselor Lauren Allswede against Travis Walton. ESPN has been criticized for their reporting in linking these allegations to the Larry Nassar scandal by some members of the local and national media, especially for showing a graphic of Coach Dantonio, Coach Izzo, and Larry Nassar together with a title of \"Crisis at Michigan State\" in the Outside the Lines report. Mark Dantonio denied all allegations on mishandling sexual assault and Tom Izzo insisted that he would cooperate with any investigation as he had in the past stating \"we'll cooperate with any investigation and always have\". In 2017 with sexual assault charges facing 4 former Michigan State football players, Mark Dantonio was cleared by the independent report conducted by the Jones Day firm, however it was determined that football administrative staff member Curtis Blackwell had violated policy and was let go. The report also determined that Coach Dantonio had actually been the one to report the alleged sexual assault involving three players when he had been informed of the assault by another player. The report found that Dantonio properly followed the mandatory reporting guidelines making several calls and texts to report the incident between 2:01 and 2:12 pm on January 16, 2017, including calls to MSU's director of the Office of Institutional Equity. On June 6, 2018, three of the four football players charged where sentenced to 36 months probation and ordered to undergo sexual offender therapy after agreeing to a plea to charges of seduction.\n\nSeveral other investigations by state and federal agencies into Michigan State's involvement are ongoing, including the Michigan Attorney General's office and the United States Education Department. As a result of the Michigan Attorney General's investigation, in March 2018 William Strampel, who oversaw Nassar's clinic while dean of the College of Osteopathic Medicine, was arrested and charged with felony misconduct in office and criminal sexual conduct for allegedly groping a student and storing nude photos on his computer. Strampel also possessed a video of the pelvic floor manipulation procedure that was created as a training video by Larry Nassar. However, the video may constitute evidence of an assault, with investigations ongoing. On June 9, 2018, six current or former Michigan State employees linked to Nassar became the subject of an investigation by Michigan's Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs. \nOn May 16, 2018, it was announced that the Michigan State University and Nassar victims had reached a $500 million settlement.\n\nThe United States Congress responded to the sexual abuse claims that were made against Nassar and also responded to claims made against personnel who were involved with USA Swimming and USA Taekwondo. United States Senator Dianne Feinstein introduced a bill that would require national governing body members overseeing Olympic sports to immediately report sexual assault allegations to law enforcement or designated child-welfare agencies. Former gymnasts Dominique Moceanu, Jamie Dantzscher and Jessica Howard testified at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on March 28, 2017, concerning the bill. Rick Adams, chief of Paralympic sports for the United States Olympic Committee and head of organizational development for the NGBs, stated at the hearing: \"We do take responsibility, and we apologize to any young athlete who has ever faced abuse.\" USAG was asked to testify at the hearing, but declined.\n\nThe Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse and Safe Sport Authorization Act of 2017, a bipartisan bill sponsored by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-C.A.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) and others, was agreed to in the House of Representatives on January 29, 2018. The bill was agreed to in the Senate on January 30, 2018 and became law on February 14, 2018, when it was signed by President Donald J. Trump. Among other things, the law requires Olympic governing bodies and amateur sports organizations to report sex-abuse allegations immediately to local or federal law enforcement, or a child-welfare agency designated by the United States Department of Justice. It further authorizes the United States Center for Safe Sport to ensure that aspiring U.S. Olympic athletes can report allegations of abuse to an independent and non-conflicted entity for investigation and resolution, and to make sure that all national governing bodies follow the strictest standards for child abuse prevention and detection. The bill amends the Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act, under the Commerce Committee’s jurisdiction, to expand the purposes of USOC to promote a safe environment in sports that is free from abuse.\n\n"}
{"id": "353009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353009", "title": "Uniform Rights of the Terminally Ill Act", "text": "Uniform Rights of the Terminally Ill Act\n\nThe Uniform Rights of the Terminally Ill Act (1985, revised 1989), was recommended as a Uniform Act in the United States. The Uniform Rights of the Terminally Ill Act subsequently was passed by many states. The Uniform Rights of the Terminally Ill Act was replaced as a recommended Uniform act by the Uniform Health-Care Decision-making Act in 1993. The law allows a person to declare a living will specifying that, if the situation arises, he or she does not wish to be kept alive through life support if terminally ill or in a coma. The patient may also obtain a health care power of attorney. This power of attorney appoints an agent to make medical decision for the patient in case the patient becomes incompetent.\n\nMany people make use of this act because they do not wish to endure any pain or suffering if weakened by a fatal disease. They want to \"die with dignity,\" so that family members will not have to go through emotional pain of watching their loved one sleep through many years of life with no response to any stimuli.\n\nThis form of death is known as passive euthanasia, where death is not inflicted with drugs, but is allowed by cutting off life support. \n"}
{"id": "40955259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40955259", "title": "Uruguayans in Sweden", "text": "Uruguayans in Sweden\n\nUruguayans in Sweden are people born in Uruguay who live in Sweden, or Swedish-born people of Uruguayan descent. As of 2013, there were over 4,000 Uruguayans living in Swedish territory.\n\nBeing Sweden a very democratic country and a net receiver of immigrants, during the civic-military dictatorship of Uruguay (1973–1985) there were several Uruguayans that went exiled to Sweden; this was possible, among others, much because of Ambassador Harald Edelstam. Nowadays there are many Uruguayans who still live in Sweden. \n\nUruguayan residents in Sweden have their own institutions, for instance, Casa Uruguay in Malmö and the Consultative Councils in Stockholm and Gothenburg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37289062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37289062", "title": "Vamale language", "text": "Vamale language\n\nVamale (Pamale) is a Kanak language of northern New Caledonia. Hmwaeke dialect is nearly extinct.\n"}
{"id": "30778604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30778604", "title": "Yaw people", "text": "Yaw people\n\nThe Yaw people () live in Gangaw District, Burma and number about 20,000 people. They speak the Yaw dialect of the Burmese language.\n\n"}
