{"id": "43302474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43302474", "title": "3rd World Farmer", "text": "3rd World Farmer\n\n3rd World Farmer is a browser based serious game where the player seeks to improve his family's standard of living over several generations.\n\nOriginally prototyped as a student project at the IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark in 2005, 3rd World Farmer has since been released in numerous versions and has been played by millions of players.\n\n3rd World Farmer gained some recognition after release with coverage from mainstream media such as \"USA Today\" (USA), \"La Stampa\" (Italy), and \"The First Post\" (UK) and digital cultura media like \"The Escapist\"(Australia). It has been adopted by many teachers for use in class, and mentioned by relief agencies working with the issues in question. since 2011 it has been available as an educational app in the Edmodo App Store.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54601434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54601434", "title": "Alinaghi Khamoushi", "text": "Alinaghi Khamoushi\n\nAlinaghi Khamoushi () is an Iranian business magnate and conservative politician.\n\nAn influential lobbyist in Iranian political and economic arena, he is a senior member of the Islamic Coalition Party and runs three large textile companies owned by two religious centers and the CEO of Iran Investments Company.\n\nKhamoushi served as the president of the Iran Chamber of Commerce Industries and Mines from 1984 to 2007. He also represented Tehran, Rey, Shemiranat and Eslamshahr electoral district in the Parliament of Iran from 1992 to 1996. Khamoushi was the first head of Mostazafan Foundation, a Bonyad.\n\n"}
{"id": "909556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=909556", "title": "Basel Accords", "text": "Basel Accords\n\nThe Basel Accords (see alternative spellings below) refer to the banking supervision Accords (recommendations on banking regulations)—Basel I, Basel II and Basel III—issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS).\nThey are called the Basel Accords as the BCBS maintains its secretariat at the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland and the committee normally meets there. The Basel Accords is a set of recommendations for regulations in the banking industry.\n\nFormerly, the Basel Committee consisted of representatives from central banks and regulatory authorities of the Group of Ten countries plus Luxembourg and Spain. Since 2009, all of the other G-20 major economies are represented, as well as some other major banking locales such as Hong Kong and Singapore. (See the Committee article for a full list of members.)\n\nThe committee does not have the authority to enforce recommendations, although most member countries as well as some other countries tend to implement the Committee's policies. This means that recommendations are enforced through national (or EU-wide) laws and regulations, rather than as a result of the committee's recommendations - thus some time may pass between recommendations and implementation as law at the national level.\n\nThe Basel Committee is named after the city of Basel, Switzerland. In early publications, the Committee sometimes used the British spelling \"Basle\" or the French spelling \"Bâle,\" names that are sometimes still used in the media. More recently, the Committee has deferred to the predominantly German-speaking population of the region and used the spelling \"Basel\", which is also a common spelling in English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5895426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5895426", "title": "Benjamin Franklin (clergyman)", "text": "Benjamin Franklin (clergyman)\n\nBenjamin Franklin (February 1, 1812 – October 22, 1878) was an important conservative figure in the American Restoration Movement, especially as the leading antebellum conservative in the northern United States branch of the movement. He is notable as the early and lifelong mentor of Daniel Sommer, whose support of the 1889 Sand Creek Declaration set in motion events which led to the formal division of the Churches of Christ from the Disciples of Christ in 1906.\n\nAccording to contemporary biographies \"His early religious training was according to the Methodist faith, though he never belonged to any church until he united with the Disciples.\" \n\nBorn near present-day Belmont County, Ohio in 1812, Franklin was said to be a fourth-generation descendant of a brother of American Revolutionary War figure Benjamin Franklin, for whom he was named. He was the eldest son of a fairly big family.\n\nWhen Franklin was near 21 years old, thus in late 1832 or early 1833, Franklin's father moved the family to farmland about three miles (5 km) south of Middletown in Henry County, Indiana. Franklin himself purchased .\n\nIn November 1834, pioneer Restoration Movement preacher and elder Samuel Rogers moved to the Falls of Rough Creek in Henry County from Kentucky, becoming a neighbor of the Franklin family.\n\nRogers began to preach Restoration Movement doctrine using a local schoolhouse to deliver his orations. He was quickly rejected as heretical by the Methodist leadership in the area: however, his family was sympathetic toward the neighbor and soon came under his theological influence. Franklin was baptised by full immersion in 1836 by Rogers near Middletown in Henry County, Indiana, along with many others who were baptised in the same meeting. (One source also credits Elijah Martindale in Franklin's conversion.) Of those baptised at this meeting, six or seven would go on to become preachers in the movement: Franklin, three of his brothers, Eider Adamson, John T. Rogers, and possibly another whose name was forgotten by one of Rogers' biographers.\n\nAt the Connersville State Meeting in 1842, Franklin was designated as the lead evangelist of the northeastern quarter (\"district\") of Indiana: the districting plan soon failed for lack of local funds to pay the evangelists' salary of US$500 per year.\n\nFranklin began preaching at New Lisbon, Indiana in 1842. He began publishing his \"Reformer\" in 1845, soon changing the name to \"Western Reformer\". He moved to Milton, Indiana in 1846 and published the journal from his own shop. This publication was to be merged with Hall's \"Gospel Proclamation\" as the \"Proclamation and Reformer\" in 1850. Franklin served as one of two secretaries at the Disciples' eighth state meeting at Columbus, Indiana, which convened on October 3, 1846.\n\nLater, Franklin published the \"Christian Age\" with collaborator David S. Burnet. His last publication was the American Christian Review begun in 1856: following Franklin's death the name of the paper would be changed to the Octographic Review. He was said to have influenced the founding of Butler University as well as other national societies, and was also said to have been an abolitionist and pacifist, like many of his contemporaries within the movement.\n\nAfter changing residences several times in Indiana and Ohio, Franklin settled in Cincinnati, Ohio in 1850, where he remained for 14 years. It was during the 1850s that Franklin changed his views to oppose missionary societies.\n\nIn 1856, Franklin began to publish the ultra-conservative \"American Christian Review,\" which he published until his death in 1878. Its influence, initially considerable, was said to have waned following the American Civil War. Franklin undertook a rigorous program of publication correspondence, and traveling lectures which took him to \"many\" U. S. states and Canada.\n\nFranklin's last move was to Anderson, Indiana, where he lived from 1864 until his death.\n\nIn 1871 Franklin gave a series of sermons at Wellsburg, West Virginia. It was here that he attracted the interest of a young Bethany College student named Daniel Sommer, becoming a lifelong mentor of Sommer, who would take up Franklin's mantle as publisher following Franklin's death. Sommer would become notable for his participation in the 1889 Sand Creek \"Address and Declaration\", a particularly strong statement of exclusivity which helped to drive the split between the Disciples of Christ and more conservative Church of Christ.\n\nFranklin married Mary Personet on December 15, 1833 with whom he had eleven children. Nine survived to adulthood. He died suddenly at his home in Anderson, Indiana.\n\n"}
{"id": "32298369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32298369", "title": "Beny Steinmetz", "text": "Beny Steinmetz\n\nBeny Steinmetz (; born 1956) is an Israeli businessman, with a portfolio in diamond-mining, engineering and real estate.\n\nBeny Steinmetz was born in Netanya, the fourth child of Rubin Steinmetz. He inherited the Geneva-based Steinmetz Diamond Group from his father. Steinmetz lives in Geneva.\n\nSteinmetz is married with four children. With his wife, he oversees the Beny & Agnes Steinmetz Foundation, which donates to schools, hospitals, army units and the arts in Israel. He also holds French citizenship and describes himself as an \"international Israeli.\"\n\nSteinmetz along with his brother Daniel founded what subsequently became known as Beny Steinmetz Group Resources (BSGR). Beny currently occupies an advisory role to the company's Board of Directors. \n\nIn March 2014, the Swiss daily \"Le Temps\" reported that Beny Steinmetz had sold shares in the Steinmetz Diamond Group (SDG) to his brother Daniel. He is an investor of Gabriel Resources Ltd.\n\nKoidu Holdings, which formerly operated as a joint venture, has been wholly owned by the BSGR company since 2007. \n\nIn 1997, he founded STI Ventures NV, a venture capital firm that invests in start-up companies in Israel. In 1999, he was the owner of Tucows. BSGR and another investment firm, IMR, also control Cunico. A now-defunct company, of which he was a founder and shareholder, Nikanor plc, listed in London, was acquired by Katanga Mining in 2008. With his company called Scorpio, he owns real estate in Kazakhstan, Russia, and Eastern Europe.\n\nThe March 2011 issue of \"Forbes\" magazine estimated his personal wealth at US$6 billion. \n\nAs of March 2011, he was the second richest person in Israel, before Sammy Ofer died in June 2011. According to Forbes in June 2014, Steinmetz is the sixth richest Israeli in the world with a net worth of $3.5 billion.\n\nIn December 2008, a three-year exploration permit for Simandou Blocks 1 & 2, in the Republic of Guinea, was awarded to BSGR Guinea, after the government of Guits to mine the northern half of Simandou, days before he died, to Steinmetz for $160 million. Steinmetz then soon sold a 51% share on to Vale for $2.5 billion.\n\nThe U.S. Justice Department and the FBI investigated BSGR's acquisition of the rights to extract half of the iron ore deposits at Simandou, Guinea, due to concerns about corruption and bribery. BSGR denied these allegations and in an interview to the \"New Yorker\", Steinmetz said: “We are the victims. We have done only good things for Guinea, and what we’re getting is spit in the face.\"\n\nIn April 2014 the Guinean government accused BSGR of obtaining the Simandou mining rights by paying bribes to the wife of then-president Lansana Conté in 2008, and that the rights would be stripped from BSGR and its partner Vale S.A. \n\nIn September 2014 BSGR started an international arbitration proceeding against the Republic of Guinea in the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, challenging the government's decision to revoke its mining rights.\n\nRio Tinto then filed suit against Steinmetz, BSGR and Vale alleging that they had devised a RICO scheme to steal \"valuable mining rights\" held by Rio Tinto. \n\nSteinmetz subsequently hired former FBI director Louis Freeh, defense attorney Alan Dershowitz, and law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, as part of his defense team.\n\nIn November 2015, Rio Tinto's RICO lawsuit against BSGR was dismissed, with U.S. District Judge Richard Berman ruling that Rio exceeded the statute of limitations when filing their claim against BSGR in 2014 and that the company failed to identify a pattern of racketeering activity by the defendants.\n\nIn mid-November 2016, Alan Davies, head of the Rio Tinto department responsible for Simandou, was suspended due to an investigation into the lawfulness of Rio Tinto's payment to Francois de Combert, former managing partner at Lazard and personal adviser to the president of Guinea. \n\nOn 1 December 2016, \"France 24\" aired recordings from 2012 that it claimed were conversations between Francois de Combret and unnamed people involved in negotiations over the future of Simandou. \n\nAustralian media referred to the controversy as \"Guineagate\".\n\nIn December 2016, Steinmetz was arrested on suspicion of money laundering and bribery charges following an investigation carried out by Israeli, American, Swiss, and Guinean authorities in coordination with the OECD. \n\nHe was placed under house arrest on 19 December 2016, due to accusations that he paid tens of millions of dollars to senior public officials in Guinea to advance his businesses, specifically in connection with BSGR's purchase of Simandou. Steinmetz was released without charge the following month. \n\nIn April 2017, BSGR filed a suit against American billionaire George Soros in U.S. federal court in New York, claiming he had engaged in a lengthy effort to defame the company and sabotage its business in Simandou and around the world. A Soros spokesman called the allegations \"frivolous and entirely false\" and described the lawsuit as \"a desperate PR stunt meant to deflect attention from BSGR's mounting legal problems across multiple jurisdictions.\"\n\nOn 10 March 2016, Steimetz was indicted \"in absentia\" by Romanian National Anticorruption Directorate, on charges of the unlawful recovery of Paul-Philippe Hohenzollern's inheritance. The court in Romania dismissed the request for a warrant for his arrest.\n\nOn 14 August 2017, Steinmetz was arrested as part of a joint investigation by Israeli and Swiss anti-corruption officials over allegations of fraud, breach of trust, bribery, obstruction of justice and false registration of corporate documents\" with the apparent purpose of money laundering.\n\nIn 2007, Steinmetz and his wife Agnes founded the Agnes and Beny Steinmetz Foundation in order to unify their multiple volunteer activities under the auspices of one philanthropic organization. The Foundation is primarily engaged in financing projects in the fields of education, healthcare, and culture for young children.\n\nThe Agnes and Beny Steinmetz Foundation also supports programs that work with at-risk youth, runs after-school facilities for children from disadvantaged families, and offers scholarships to students from difficult socio-economic backgrounds.\n\nThe Foundation also donates to several organizations and institutions, including the Tel Aviv Museum, the Association for the Wellbeing of Israel's Soldiers (mainly supporting the soldiers of the Tzabar Battalion Of the Givati Brigade), the Israel Cancer Association, and various hospitals.\n\nAt the end of 2016, the Foundation held a festive event to celebrate a decade of giving. Attendants included representatives of the many organizations the Foundation had supported over the years by contributing a cumulative amount of tens of millions of shekels.\n"}
{"id": "31599830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31599830", "title": "Biography Work", "text": "Biography Work\n\nBiography work is essentially about interest in the human being and the great mystery of existence we call human life. It is an active practice for developing self-knowledge. It is a search for meaning out of which may arise greater social understanding—deeper, genuine interest in one's fellow man. Biography work is founded upon the vast work of Rudolf Steiner, collectively called spiritual science or anthroposophy--\"wisdom or knowledge of the human being.\" Anthroposophy is often described as a path from the spiritual in the human being to the spiritual in the world or cosmos. A profound relationship exists between the cosmos or macrocosm and the human being as microcosm. Indeed, anthroposophy suggests the human being \"is\" a microcosm of the macrocosm. Yet, biography work works directly with physical existence, life on earth, which itself speaks volumes, if we will but \"learn to read the text\" of the individual experience, as well as that of the archetype. The human being is a bridge then: on the one hand, embedded in the earth, directed by the rhythms of nature, the seasons, night and day, etc.; and, on the other hand, belonging to the spiritual world. \"The only real hope of people today is probably a renewal of certainty that we are rooted in the earth, and at the same time in the cosmos,\" as so beautifully described by Vaclav Havel (\"The Measure of Man\").\n\nThe human life, one's biography, is shaped by the inherently creative and uniquely individual power of the \"I\" or Higher Ego or Higher Self. It is an exploration of the role of the \"I\" in unfolding a life full of gifts, opportunities, illnesses, accidents, struggles, tasks, responsibilities, and perhaps above all questions. Biography work invites new self-understanding and, in turn, awakens interest in the experiences of others. In an evermore virtual world, biography work fosters real meetings and genuine appreciation for the diversity of human endeavor and creativity. \n\nBiography Work was first developed in the 1970s, arising out of a picture of human development given by Rudolf Steiner early in the twentieth century. Steiner described physical, soul, and spiritual development from birth to death in great detail, and included, as a significant aspect of the whole human being, the soul’s further spiritual growth after death and through successive lifetimes, i.e. reincarnation. Steiner knew that in our time there would be tremendous need for increased social understanding, and that study of human development would be an essential foundation of such understanding.\n\nOne of the earliest descriptions of biography work given by Rudolf Steiner appears in the lecture titled \"How Can the Destitution of Soul in Modern Times Be Overcome?\" and is as follows: \"As many descriptions as possible of how human beings really develop—what I would call the positive natural history of individual human development—must be disseminated in an understanding way. Wherever we can we should describe how this or that person developed—we should be able to give a loving account of human development, as we have observed it. The study of life is needed, the will to the understanding of life.\"\n\nDrawing on the many references found in multiple lectures given by Rudolf Steiner, students of his work and leaders in the anthroposophical community began to create practices that are today collectively referred to as \"biography work\" (or sometimes \"social art\"). Two of those leaders, Bernard Lievegoed, a Dutch physician, and Gudrun Burkhard, a physician who still lives and practices in Brazil, both teachers and authors as well, led a pioneering initiative and introduced this new way of life-consultation, first in their respective regions and soon to the world. In the United States, the efforts of George and Gisela O'Neil culminated in the publication (by Florin Lowndes, after the O'Neils' deaths) of \"The Human Life\", a rich depiction of human development, birth to death, a thorough exploration of their original work in developing the life-chart, and a comprehensive collection of references made by Dr. Steiner regarding human biography.\n\nBiography work is about listening. At the heart of biography work is the understanding that each life story is a unique revelation of intention and deep wisdom. For the biography practitioner, each “journey” is sacred, and there is an understanding that the “traveler” is continually informed by both individual and universal truths. Biography practitioners bring a broad perspective, artistic exercises, and true listening to life explorations.\nBiography work is phenomenological; its methods based in phenomenology, particularly as developed by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. Biography practitioners (also called biography workers, social artists) work via the following: workshops, adult education courses, one-on-one or small group conversation, counseling, consultation and continuing education for professionals. \n\nThese are offered on a variety of themes and the learning process is typically infused with social art. Sessions might include short talks, biography exercises, work with storytelling, nature observation, artwork, meditation or inner practice, and conversation. One of the gifts of working in groups is a heightened appreciation for each unique life as it resonates within the context of universal patterns. \n\nBeing one of the most human of activities, conversation is central to biography work. \n\nSome certified biography practitioners are also licensed in counseling, psychotherapy, social work and the like. They typically work in a formal or clinical setting and are able to address crises, life-changing events, inner difficulties, and illness.\nBiography practitioners can bring new perspectives to existing professions such as art therapy, medicine, care for the elderly, hospice, work with the homeless, and more.\n\n Center for Biography and Social Art http://www.biographysocialart.org\n Professional Training in Applied Biographical Development http://www.christophori.com\n"}
{"id": "7074217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7074217", "title": "Bureau of International Information Programs", "text": "Bureau of International Information Programs\n\nThe U.S. Department of State's Bureau of International Information Programs (IIP) supports the department's public diplomacy efforts by providing and supporting the places, content, and infrastructure needed for sustained conversations with foreign audiences. IIP is one of three bureaus that report to the Undersecretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs. The Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs and the Bureau of Public Affairs are the sister bureaus.\n\nWhen the Foreign Affairs and Restructuring Act abolished the United States Information Agency (USIA) on October 1, 1999, USIA's broadcasting functions were moved to the newly created Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG), and its non-broadcasting information functions were given to the newly created Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs. The Bureau of International Information Programs was created out of this restructuring.\n\nAccording to the bureau's page on the Department of State website, IIP \"provides and supports the places, content, and infrastructure needed for sustained conversations with foreign audiences to build America's reputation abroad\".\n\nPhysical and virtual places include over 700 American Spaces around the world, as well as a large social media community that numbers over 12 million followers. Content includes publications, video, and U.S. expert speakers, who engage foreign audiences both in person and through virtual programs. IIP manages the infrastructure for all embassy and consulate websites, translations of public remarks by the President and Secretary, and maintains internal websites with resources for use by public diplomacy officers for overseas programs.\n\nThe Bureau of International Information Programs provides public diplomacy materials and support in three primary areas:\n\nIIP operates the department's embassy and consulate websites, which attract more than 150 million unique visitors per year (http://usembassy.gov) in over 60 languages. IIP also supports embassy social media efforts with theme-based Facebook pages and Twitter sites in six languages, reaching more than 12 million fans and followers.\n\nIIP also operates an interactive web-chat platform that links foreign audiences to U.S. subject matter experts, opinion-makers, community leaders, and government officials in more than 800 programs each year. In September 2014, the bureau launched a new social sharing platform ShareAmerica to distribute public diplomacy content that is interesting, policy-relevant, and visually appealing.\n\nAmerican Spaces exemplify the United States' commitment to a core tenet of democracy: the citizen's right to free access to information. Hosting more than 16 million visits each year, American Spaces support public diplomacy by creating a place for in-person engagement with foreign audiences. Over 700 Spaces are hosted in embassies, schools, libraries, and other partner institutions in 169 countries. They provide information about United States' policy, culture, and values as well as study in the United States. They also support English language learning and activities for alumni of international visitor programs.\n\nIIP creates and curates content that provides context and information on U.S. foreign policy topics in a variety of formats ranging from video to print publications to audio books, reaching more than one billion people a year. Much of this content, along with transcripts of the Secretary's and President's speeches, is available to embassies in multiple languages. IIP also produces more than 125 video products each year and recruits more than 650 speakers annually, including Supreme Court justices, renowned authors, innovators, scholars, entrepreneurs, journalists, and sports figures who connect directly with more than 160,000 people in local markets via in-country and virtual events.\n\nIIP has an advanced analytics capacity to measure output, campaign performance, perform audience analysis and track over 2,000 Department of State social media properties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1498412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1498412", "title": "Business Continuity Institute", "text": "Business Continuity Institute\n\nThe Business Continuity Institute (BCI) was established in 1994 to enable individual members to obtain guidance and support from fellow business continuity practitioners.\n\nThe BCI has around 8,000 members in more than 100 countries worldwide.\n\nIn 2016 David Thorp replaced Lorraine Darke as Executive Director after she spent 12 years in the role.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23773039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23773039", "title": "Case competition", "text": "Case competition\n\nIn a case competition, participants strive to develop the best solution to a business or education-related case study within an allocated time frame, typically with teams of two or more individuals pitted against each other in a head-to-head or broader relative ranking. Teams deliver presentations for judges and, while competitions vary in composition, a standard format and purpose exists.\n\nThe case competition concept originated in the United States and originally included participants from domestic universities. The notion of expanding to include international competitors emerged later, with the concept eventually taking hold across North America and Western Europe. Today, a wide range of international competitions are hosted in various countries in North America, Europe, and Asia. International case competitions have also begun expanding beyond the undergraduate level, as competitions like the Wharton China Business Society International Case Competition offer high school divisions .\n\nThe Middle East & North Africa Regional Case Initiative (MENARCCI) at the American University of Beirut (AUB). MENARCCI's goal is to serve as a depository of all necessary knowledge about the case method, sources of cases and publishing outlets, and the links to all cases on the Region available on-line. In the Middle East, cases competitions are conducted by the American University of Beirut and the American University in Cairo.\n\nFormats vary according to a number of dimensions. The following dimensions are often used to classify and compare competitions: Host: corporate versus educational institution; Participant selection: \"by invitation\" versus \"by application\"; and, Level: undergraduate, graduate. Formats may vary along practical dimensions, including: Case specificity (whether the case has been written especially for the competition or not); Number of teams; Organization (student-run, professional etc.); Rules, e.g.:Time (common formats are 3-4 or 24 hours), Materials, Degree of access to expert advice (either from within the competition or externally, and electronically or face to face).\n\nSome competitions add complexity to create a more interesting challenge. For example, Ohio State University (OSU)'s Center For International Business Education And Research (CIBER), in its annual Case Challenge, created teams from the overall pool of participants, regardless of school, dissolving the usual school-based team format. For the Ohio State scenario, once the students are assigned to teams, a full day of team-building exercises is run for competitors.\n\nCompetitions can be internal to a business school, or they can involve teams from multiple schools. Sometimes the competition includes several rounds, with the final round typically judged by outside company executives (sometimes the panel consists of executives from the actual company in the case). For example, the University of Washington’s Foster School of Business' 2010 round of its Global Business Case Competition featured a customized case on the Boeing Company and Boeing executives acted as judges.\n\nParticipants exercise skills and knowledge on a \"real world\" case for an actual organization, with the support of representatives who can provide professional advice. Other competitions select an issue based on its degree of importance, and employ the competition as a means to both highlight the issue and create potential solutions through the efforts of the competitors. Participants can also be assessed as potential candidates for analysis-based jobs within the targeted companies.\n\nTeams in case competitions are tasked with assessing the situation facing the organization, analyzing available information, crafting a solution, and defending their recommendations. In general, teams adhere to a time limit and specific rules. Each team is judged independently, and the judges' decision is final, although a confidential summary evaluation is generally provided.\n"}
{"id": "6493411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6493411", "title": "Cees Maas", "text": "Cees Maas\n\nCees Maas (born May 1, 1947, Middelburg) is a former chief financial officer and vice chairman of the executive board for ING Group. He has been with the company since 1992 and became CFO in 1996. He graduated from Erasmus University Rotterdam with a degree in physical engineering and a master's degree in economics.\n\nCees Maas was a member of the Executive Board of ING Group from 1992-2007. In 1996, he was appointed Chief Financial Officer, and in 2004 became Vice Chairman of the Executive Board. Between 1976 and 1992, he worked at the Ministry of Finance, serving as Treasurer-General between 1986 and 1992. He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of The Currency Exchange (TCX) Fund N.V. and the Erasmus Medical Centre, member of the Supervisory Board of BCD Holding N.V., Chairman of the Board of the Foundation 4 and 5 May, member and European Treasurer of the Trilateral Commission, member of the Capital Markets Consultative Group (IMF) and the International Advisory Board of the National Bank of Kuwait. He is also member of the Supervisory Board of [FMO], the Dutch development bank.\n\nOn 26 April 2007, Maas was made an Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau by Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands. The honour was presented by Wouter Bos, the then Minister of Finance of the Netherlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "950315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=950315", "title": "Cheque fraud", "text": "Cheque fraud\n\nCheque fraud (en-GB), or Check fraud (en-US), refers to a category of criminal acts that involve making the unlawful use of cheques in order to illegally acquire or borrow funds that do not exist within the account balance or account-holder's legal ownership. Most methods involve taking advantage of the \"float\" (the time between the negotiation of the cheque and its clearance at the cheque writer's financial institution) to draw out these funds. Specific kinds of cheque fraud include cheque kiting, where funds are deposited before the end of the float period to cover the fraud, and paper hanging, where the float offers the opportunity to write fraudulent cheques but the account is never replenished.\n\nCheque kiting refers to use of the float to take advantage and delay the notice of non-existent funds.\n\nWhile some cheque kiters fully intend to bring their accounts into good standing, others, often known as \"paper hangers\", have pure fraud in mind, attempting to \"take the money and run.\"\n\nA cheque is written to a merchant or other recipient, hoping the recipient will not suspect that the cheque will not clear. The buyer will then take possession of the cash, goods, or services purchased with the cheque, and will hope the recipient will not take action or will do so in vain.\n\nThe paper hanger deposits a cheque one time that s/he knows is bad or fictitious into his/her account. When the bank considers the funds available (usually on the next business day), but before the bank is informed the cheque is bad, the paper hanger then withdraws the funds in cash. The offender knows the cheque will bounce, and the resulting account will be in debt, but the offender will abandon the account and take the cash.\n\nSuch crimes are often used by petty criminals to obtain funds through a quick embezzlement, and are frequently conducted using a fictitious or stolen identity in order to hide that of the real offender.\n\nThis form of fraud is the basis for the Nigerian cheque scam and other similar schemes; however, in these cases, the victim will be the one accused of committing such crimes, and will be left to prove his/her innocence.\n\nSometimes, forgery is the method of choice in defrauding a bank. One form of forgery involves the use of a victim's legitimate cheques, that have either been altogether stolen and then cashed, or altering a cheque that has been legitimately written to the perpetrator, by adding words and/or digits in order to inflate the amount (raising a cheque).\n\nOther cases involved the use of completely fake cheques, as in the case of Frank Abagnale. The perpetrator passes or attempts to pass a cheque that has been manufactured by him/herself, but that represents a non-existent account.\n\nCheque washing involves the theft of a cheque in transit between the writer and recipient, followed by the use of chemicals to remove the ink representing all parts other than the signature. The perpetrator then fills in the blanks to his or her advantage.\n\nSometimes the cheque fraud comes from an employee of the bank itself, as was the case with Suzette A. Brock, who was convicted of theft for writing five corporate cheques to her own birth name from her desk as a loan servicing agent for Banner Bank of Walla Walla, WA.\n\nThe most notorious \"bad cheque artist\" of the 20th century, Frank Abagnale, devised a scheme to put incorrect MICR numbers at the bottom of the cheque he wrote, so that they would be routed to the incorrect Federal Reserve Bank for clearing. This allowed him to work longer in one area before his criminal activity was detected. In the movie, Catch Me if You Can, which outlines Abagnale's crime spree, it shows Abagnale soaking plastic Pan Am airplanes in his bathtub and removing the Pan Am insignia on the toys. He would then place the decals on the bad cheques he was writing while pretending to be a Pan Am pilot. From his schemes, Abagnale amassed over $2.5 million.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, passing a cheque for an amount of money the writer knows is not in the account at the time of negotiation (or available for overdraft protection) is usually considered a violation of criminal law. However, the general practice followed by banks has been to refrain from prosecuting cheque writers if the cheque reaches the bank after sufficient funds have been deposited, thereby allowing it to clear. But the account holder is normally held fully liable for all bank penalties, civil penalties, and criminal charges allowable by law in the event the cheque does not clear the bank.\n\nOnly when the successful clearance of a cheque is due to a kiting scheme does the bank traditionally take action. Banks have always had various methods of detecting kiting schemes and stopping them in the act. Computer systems in place will alert bank officials when a customer engages in various suspicious activities, including frequently depositing cheques bearing the same, large monthly total deposits accompanied by near-zero average daily balances, or avoidance of tellers by frequent use of ATMs for deposits.\n\nNew technology in place today may make most forms of cheque kiting and paper hanging a thing of the past. As new software rapidly catches illegal activity at the teller/branch level instead of waiting for the nightly runs to the back office, schemes are not only easier to detect, but may be prevented by tellers who deny customers illegal transactions before they are even started.\n\nPart of how banks are combating cheque fraud is to offer their clients fraud protection services. Because it is impossible for banks to know every cheque that a customer writes and which may or may not be fraudulent, the onus is on the clients to make the bank aware of what cheques they write. These systems allow customers to upload their cheque files to the bank including the cheque number, the amount of money, and in some cases, the payee name. Now, when a cheque is presented for payment, the bank scrubs it against the information on file. If one of the variables does not match, then the cheque would be flagged as a potentially fraudulent item.\n\nThese services help with external fraud but they do not help if there is internal fraud. If an employee sends information to the bank with fraudulent items, then the bank would not know to deny payment. A system of dual controls should be put into place in order to not allocate all capabilities to one person.\n\nBefore the passage of the \"Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act\", when cheques could take 3 or more days to clear, \"playing the float\" was fairly common practice in the US in otherwise-honest individuals who encountered emergencies right before payday.\n\nCircular and abandonment frauds are gradually being eliminated as cheques will clear in Bank B the same day they are deposited into Bank A, giving no time at all for non-existent funds to become available for withdrawal. With image-sharing technology, the funds that temporarily become available in Bank A's account are wiped out the same day.\n\nWhile there may still be some room for retail kiting, security measures taken by retail chains are helping reduce such incidents. Increasingly, more chains are limiting the amount of cash back received, the number of times cash back can be offered in a week or a given period of time, and obtaining transactional account balances before offering cash back, thereby denying it to those with low balances. For example, Walmart's policy is to determine account balances of those obtaining cash back, and some Safeway locations will not offer cash back on any accounts with balances under $250, even when funds are sufficient to cover the amount on the cheque. Customers who are noted to obtain cash back frequently are also investigated by the corporation to observe patterns.\n\nSome businesses will also use the cheque strictly as an informational device to automatically debit funds from the account, and will return the item to the customer thereafter. However, in the United States this is done through the ACH Network; though faster than traditional check clearing, contrary to popular belief the ACH Network is not instantaneous. Though this practice reduces the room for kiting (by reducing float), it does not always eliminate it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13636430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13636430", "title": "Clark L. Wilson", "text": "Clark L. Wilson\n\nClark L. Wilson (August 31, 1913 – August 12, 2006 in Winchester, Virginia) was an American industrial psychologist who introduced the concept of 360 feedback surveys for management training and development applications. From 1970-1973 he developed his first 360-degree feedback survey, the \"Survey of Management Practices\". It was based on a learning sequence he called the Task-Cycle-Theory. Today, 360 feedback surveys of many types are standard tools for management training and development worldwide.\n\nWilson studied under psychologist J.P. Guilford as a University of Southern California graduate student after World War II. Guilford had expanded on the work by Louis Leon Thurstone, pioneer in the field of psychometrics, by using factor analysis to assess management skills. Guilford’s work led Wilson to experiment with identifying important management and leadership skills through psychometrics. He eventually developed his Task Cycle assessment tools as an application of Guilford’s statistical approach.\n\nWilson borrowed the concept of multi-rater feedback from the field of psychological assessment, particularly as it was being applied by the US Army during World War II. Managers and leaders, he believed, could learn and improve if they knew how others perceived their skills and behaviors. He also believed that management skills can be learned, like any other skill, through a learning sequence. While Wilson started out calling this system multi-level feedback, others eventually dubbed it 360-degree feedback—the name by which it is now best known. It is also sometimes called multi-rater feedback.\n\nHe developed the Survey of Management Practices as a teaching tool for his management classes at the University of Bridgeport (Connecticut) Graduate School of Business, where he was the Warner G. Bradford Proofessor of Management. He had students use the survey in their workplaces.\n\nThe feedback consisted of survey statements which were rated on a seven-point agree/disagree scale. The statements were strictly limited to observations about behaviors such as planning or communications, avoiding aspects of personality such as sociability or excitability. Each individual would rate him or herself on the same survey as the supervisor, direct reports, and peers who were also providing ratings.\n\nBy the mid-1970s more companies, including Dow Chemical, Pitney Bowes and several utilities were using the instrument and contributing data to the norm database. With wider use and accumulated data, Wilson was able to study the reliability and validity of the instrument. He also studied performance data on feedback recipients and was able to verify a mathematical basis for the Task Cycle learning sequence. He found that when a manager or executive practiced the Task Cycle skills with balance and in sequence, a measurable increase in effectiveness could be documented.\n\nThe Clark Wilson Group, formed in 1973, merged with The Booth Company in 2017. The Task Cycle® line of assessments now consists of ten off-the-shelf offerings, with dozens of customized versions in circulation.\n\nUp to the time of his death, Wilson continued to develop and publish a full range of assessment tools. He published his last book in 2003 at the age of 89. \"How and Why Effective Managers Balance Their Skills\" offers conclusions based on 30 years of research. Wilson summarizes: \"After over 30 years of analysis, the problem of most managers is very clear. Too many managers try to exercise control without providing the technical and teambuilding skills needed to achieve their goals\". This imbalance derails individuals and undermines organizational performance, he asserted, while the presence of these skills—which can be learned—measurably improves business outcomes.\n\nClark Wilson received his A.B. from Stanford University in 1935. He joined the U.S. Navy in World War II and served in the submarine force in the Pacific theater and was awarded the Silver Star and Gold Star. He earned a Ph.D. in applied psychology from the University of Southern California in 1948. He was a Fellow of the American Psychological Association and a Fellow of the Society of Industrial and Organizational Psychologists.\n\nDr. Wilson died in August, 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "266877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266877", "title": "Cleveland State University", "text": "Cleveland State University\n\nCleveland State University (CSU) is a public research university in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, United States. It was established in 1964, and opened for classes in 1965 after acquiring the buildings, property, and students of Fenn College, a private school that had been in operation since 1923. CSU absorbed the Cleveland-Marshall College of Law in 1969. Today it is part of the University System of Ohio, has more than 120,000 alumni, and offers over 200 academic programs.\n\n\nIndustrialist James J. Nance served as Chair of the first Board of Trustees.\n\nPresident Michael Schwartz ended open admissions and implemented a vision to move from a \"U.S. News & World Report\" fourth tier university to a second tier university.\n\nThe Cleveland State University Board consists of nine trustees, a Secretary to the Board, two faculty representatives, and two student representatives. The board members, along with the University President, are charged with fulfilling the goals set forth in the University Mission Statement as well as acting as the governing body in all policy matters of the University requiring attention. In January 2006 the Board of Trustees amended their bylaws so they could restructure board committees as well as include Community members on the Board. Community members serve as non-voting advisers and are appointed by the Board Chairman for a term approved by the Board.\n\nCSU offers many disciplines and research facilities, with 70 academic majors, 27 master's degree programs, two post-master's degrees, six doctoral degrees, and two law degrees. It also has research cooperation agreements with the nearby NASA Glenn Research Center.\n\nIn 1965, when The Cleveland State University was formed the colleges were the Fenn College of Engineering (now the Washkewicz College of Engineering), the colleges of business administration, arts and sciences and education. The University is organized around nine academic colleges and five specialty semi-autonomous schools:\n\nThe Division of University Studies focuses on academic support services, and the Division of Continuing Education extends academic services beyond the campus.\n\nNotable programs include the Maxine Goodman Levin College of Urban Affairs, which U.S. News & World Report 2019 ranking of graduate public affairs programs placed Levin College fourth in the Urban Policy specialty and 13th in the Local Government Management specialty, as well as the recently formed School of Communication, ranked 8th in research productivity and as the top terminal MA-granting program in the United States overall. The Monte Ahuja College of Business is also highly regarded and is ranked in the top ten nationwide in performance of its Certified Public Accountant graduate students. Additionally, CSU is the first university in Ohio to offer a master's degree in software engineering.\n\nThe Cleveland–Marshall College of Law traces its origins to the founding of Cleveland Law School in 1897. One of the most famous alumni of the Cleveland–Marshall College of Law was Tim Russert, host of television program \"Meet the Press\", who graduated in 1976.\n\nCleveland State maintains a variety of research links with the Cleveland community. The following are the University's featured research collaborations:\n\n\nCSU's main campus in downtown Cleveland is bounded on the east and west by Interstate 90 and East 17th Street, respectively; and by Payne Avenue to the north and Carnegie Avenue on the south. It also has a satellite campus in Westlake, Ohio which is in the Greater Cleveland metropolitan area in Cuyahoga County. As of spring 2013, the combined student body (undergraduate and graduate students) totaled over 17,000.\n\nIn 2006, Cleveland State University completed its state-of-the-art student Recreation Center, and a renovation of Parker Hannifan Hall for the College of Graduate Studies.\n\nTo make the campus more amenable to residence and increase the number of students living on campus by building thousands of housing units, anchored by a new dormitory, Fenn Tower, a reuse of the school's most historic building. Fenn Tower housed what was the world's longest Foucault pendulum, but the pendulum was removed during the residence hall renovation in 2006 and is now in the Cleveland State University archives.\n\nThe university worked with private developers and the City of Cleveland to develop housing, retail, and \"collegetown\" amenities around Fenn Tower, particularly along the main thoroughfare of Euclid Avenue. In 2010, Euclid Avenue was upgraded as part of the Euclid Corridor Project which brought bus rapid transit to the university and connected Public Square in downtown Cleveland to University Circle, approximately four miles to the east. Cleveland State University's $65 million construction project, intended to transform the campus from a mostly commuter school into a residential campus, included the new Student Center and Julka Hull, which houses the College of Education and School of Nursing. Both projects were finished in 2010.\n\nIn 2011, the new Euclid Commons dorms complex, which features apartment-style living for CSU students, opened. That same year, the university's Dramatic Arts Program moved into the renovated Middough Building and Allen Theatre at Playhouse Square Center in collaboration with the Cleveland Play House.\n\nIn 2012, CSU opened the Galleries At CSU on Euclid Avenue. Also in 2012, Cleveland State University partnered with the South China University of Technology allowing students to complete their education and receive joint degrees. During the fall semester of 2012, the first phase of the private Langston apartment and retail complex opened along Chester Avenue across from Rhodes Tower. In the spring semester of 2013, the former Viking Hall dormitory was torn down to make way for the university's new Center for Health Professions. This was opened in the fall of 2015. The University is partnering with Northeast Ohio Medical University or NEOMED to train future health care professionals to specifically work in urban settings. They are working on adding a new physics department onto the campus and starting to build a better physics department\n\nThe campus' student-run radio station, 89.3 WCSB, has a 630-Watt transmitter on top of Rhodes Tower (formerly called University Tower). Additionally, Cleveland State is served in print by The Cauldron, an independent student newspaper, The Cleveland Stater, a laboratory newspaper in the School of Communication, The Vindicator, and The Gavel which won the 2005 American Bar Association's -Student Division's first prize for the best law school newspaper in the country. There is no student television station at this time, though the university offers a film production and video production major with courses through its Digital Video Communication Center.\n\nCSU is a member of the OneCommunity (formerly OneCleveland) computer network, an initiative of Case Western Reserve University that connects nonprofit institutions throughout Northeast Ohio, allowing large scale collaborations over a high-speed fiber optic network.\n\nCleveland State University is home to 4 NIC fraternities, Delta Sigma Phi, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Sigma Tau Gamma, and Tau Kappa Epsilon. There are 4 NPC sororities, Alpha Sigma Alpha, Delta Zeta, Phi Mu, and Theta Phi Alpha and there are 4 NPHC organizations, Alpha Kappa Alpha, Alpha Phi Alpha, Delta Sigma Theta, and Sigma Gamma Rho.\n\nWhen the school was still known as Fenn College, the sports teams' nickname was the Foxes. When the University was renamed Cleveland State, the nickname changed as well, and CSU's sports teams became the \"Vikings\". That nickname stands to this day. The school colors are forest green and white. For many years the school mascot was the comic strip character Hägar the Horrible along with his wife Helga, and the couple appeared at sporting events as well as on University literature. A new mascot, \"Vike\" was introduced in 1997 and Hagar was phased out by 1998. Another new mascot named \"Magnus\" was introduced in August 2007.\n\nCleveland State fields varsity teams in seventeen sports. Most of the teams compete in the Horizon League. The men's basketball team was noteworthy in 1986 when seeded 14th in the NCAA tournament, it upset heavily favored 3-seed Indiana and St. Joseph's before being beaten by Navy by one point, an unprecedented achievement for such a low seed. The Vikes made yet another NCAA tournament appearance in 2009, upsetting the highly favored 4th seeded Wake Forest before falling to the University of Arizona in the second round. The school also fields a wrestling team that competes in the Eastern Wrestling League.\n\nOn October 14, 2008 CSU President Michael Schwartz stated \"he wants a blue ribbon panel to give him a recommendation on the football team before July 1, 2009, when he is scheduled to retire. He also said the program will have to be structured to pay for itself.\"\n\nThe establishment of a football team became an official item on the student government election ballot. Although over two-thirds of the voters favored establishment of a football team over half of them were not willing to pay a fee for Division I non-scholarship football in addition to any potential future tuition increases that may be instituted by the University.\n\n"}
{"id": "30524712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30524712", "title": "Colchester Rubber Co.", "text": "Colchester Rubber Co.\n\nColchester Rubber Co. was a footwear brand manufactured by the Colchester Rubber Company.\nColchester Rubber Co. was a footwear brand manufactured by the Colchester Rubber Company. The original Colchester Rubber Company, founded in 1888 at Colchester, Connecticut, USA, has come to be known for being the world’s first sneaker brand and inventing the “World’s First Basketball Sneakers”, which were created circa 1892. Colchester Rubber Co. brand is also the predecessor of the footwear brands, Keds which was created 1916 and Pro-Keds which was created in 1949, as, after the United States Rubber Company acquired Colchester Rubber Company in 1892, it went on to create the KEDS and PRO-KEDS brands.\nThe Colchester Rubber Company factory was located at the intersection of Lebanon Avenue and Mill Street in the factory buildings which previously belonged to the Hayward Rubber Company which was in operation from 1847 to 1885. The Hayward Rubber Company was founded by Nathaniel Hayward, who co-invented vulcanised rubber with Charles Goodyear in 1838. Some of the original Colchester Rubber Company factory ruins can still be seen at the site today. Many of the workers in the factory originally came from Ireland.\n\nThe Colchester Rubber Company was founded by George Watkinson who was born 1838. Prior to founding Colchester Rubber Company, George Watkinson was a manager at the Candee Rubber Company.\n\nThe Colchester Rubber Company factory, or Rubber Works, at Colchester were co-managed by George Watkinson and his son Irving Watkinson. Irving Watkinson was a busy man, as he also kept the Colchester town weather station and was the proverbial man about town raising show dogs and horses while selling bicycles for the Columbia Brand and being the Captain of the town’s baseball team.\n\nThe Colchester Rubber Company manufactured high end rubber footwear for men, women and children. Their speciality products were working boots for cold and wet weather, rain boots and galoshes. To complement these products, during the short summer season of April to July, they also made and sold canvas and rubber shoes under the classification of “Tennis” shoes. The somewhat misleadingly named “Tennis” shoe range included shoes for walking, baseball, bicycle, tennis and yachting.\n\nThe Colchester Rubber Company’s products were rated high end quality and considered by some as #1 in their field. The “Tennis” shoes were the promenade shoe of choice at Newport, Rhode Island during the Gilded Age. The products were also exported worldwide and during the late 1880s and early 1890s were seen on the beaches and board-walks in Europe’s many resorts.\n\nIn 1892 Colchester Rubber Company displayed their footwear at the Chicago World’s Fair and Exposition.\n\nDuring 1892, Colchester Rubber Company was acquired by The United States Rubber Company as part of their intention to form a monopoly and control the rubber industry in the United States of America by buying a majority of the rubber companies which were in operation at that time.\n\nDuring the 1893 Depression, the decision was made by The United States Rubber Company to close the factory in Colchester and discontinue the Colchester Rubber Co. brand.\n\nThis decision was, in part, based on the fact that the town of Colchester was located on what was considered a poor water source for manufacturing and was far from seaports and land transportation hubs. The decision to close the factory was kept secret from the employees and the people of the town of Colchester. George Watkinson was promoted to a Vice President position with The United States Rubber Company in the spring of 1983 and left the town of Colchester on a guise of going on vacation. He was replaced in Colchester by Joseph Banigan who oversaw the last of the production from the factory in Colchester as well as the factory closure. During the Christmas holiday in 1893 the factory employees and the people of the town of Colchester were told that the company was going to re-tool the factory and it would be opened after New Year. Instead of this happening, all the machinery was removed from the factory in Colchester and shipped to The United States Rubber Company’s holdings at Providence, Rhode Island. A Colchester Advocate newspaper article in early 1894, editorialized, asked when was the factory was going to re-open. When it became clear that the factory was going to stay closed, the town collapsed half of the population leaving and a majority of the businesses in the town subsequently closing.\n\nIn around 1895, George Watkinson left The United States Rubber Company and opened The Watkinson Rubber Company at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania which, for a period of time was allowed to compete with The United States Rubber Company. The Watkinson Rubber Company factory remained open until around 1903 and was subsequently acquired by U.S. Rubber. George Watkinson is believed to have died around that time. Records show that Irving Watkinson stayed in the area, with him living in Norwich, Connecticut in the 1920s\n\nDuring the 20th century, The United States Rubber Company used the Colchester Rubber Company’s logo to co-brand seconds products, destroying the original brand by over-stamping. This type of branding was done by United States Rubber Company and was not related in any way to the original Colchester Rubber Co. brand products of the 1800s.\n\nAs of October 2010 a pair of co-branded seconds, bearing both Keds and Colchester Rubber Co. logos, were on display at the Basketball Hall of Fame at Springfield, Massachusetts.\n\nThe brand known for being the world’s first Sneaker brand and inventing the “World’s First Basketball Sneakers”, circa 1892.\n\nThe town of Colchester was a mere 50 miles from Springfield, Massachusetts where basketball was invented in December 1891 by Dr. James Naismith. Given his interest in sport, it is believed that Irving Watkinson was a basketball player early in the life of the sport. Whatever his link with the sport and Dr. Naismith, it is considered that Irving Watkinson designed a shoe specifically for use playing basketball. A surviving pair of basketball shoes was discovered in December 2004 at an estate sale in Vista, California. The sale was from a Victorian estate in Denver, Colorado. It is known that Dr. James Naismith relocated to Denver in 1895 to attend Gross Medical College and therefore, these original Colchester Rubber Company basketball sneakers are believed to be a prototype sample made for Dr. James Naismith.\n\nThe basketball shoes which Irving Watkinson created were canvas high top shoes having a rubber sole which featured a turkey feather design to aids traction and jumping, a rubber toe guard cap and a ball logo at the ankle ball which provides protection. The design of these basketball shoes is the classic American image of a sneaker and the essence of Irving Watkinson’s design can be seen in the styles and brands which followed through the years including, for example, the Converse All-Star first produced in 1917.\n\nA low quarter utility rubber and canvas shoe, that was illustrated and feature in an 1890s Colchester Rubber Company’s catalogue, appears to have been used as the basis for, and modified to create, these surviving basketball sneakers. belief is supported by the fact that the sample basketball sneakers do not have matching stock serial numbers and the canvas panels are marked size 9 while the soles are marked size 12. It is believed that the Colchester Rubber Company may have displayed this style of basketball sneakers at the 1892 Chicago World’s Fair.\n\nThe Colchester Rubber Co. brand is also the predecessor of the footwear brands Keds, created in 1916, and Pro-Keds, created in 1949 by the United States Rubber Company which acquired the Colchester Rubber Company in 1892.\n"}
{"id": "39819314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39819314", "title": "Douglas Durst", "text": "Douglas Durst\n\nDouglas Durst (born December 19, 1944) is an American real estate investor and developer.\n\nDurst was born in New York City in 1944 to a Jewish family, the son of Bernice (née Herstein) and Seymour Durst. He is the younger brother of Robert Durst.\n\nDurst's paternal grandfather, Joseph Durst, a penniless immigrant tailor from Austria Hungary, eventually became a very successful real estate manager and developer founding the Durst Organization in 1915. His father, Seymour, became head of the family business in 1974 upon Joseph's death. Douglas's mother died in a fall when he was a child. Douglas graduated from the Fieldston School in 1962 and the University of California at Berkeley in 1966. He attended New York University's Urban Studies program for two years and then joined the family business then run by his father and two uncles, Roy and David.\n\nDouglas took over the Durst Organization in 1992 upon his father's retirement. He presided over the development of several major buildings in New York City:\n\nDurst is a director of the Real Estate Board of New York. Durst is known for emphasizing density and sustainability in his projects.\n\nLocated on 14th Street and 5th Avenue in Manhattan, the New School university center was designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill and developed by the Durst Organization. The building is designed to LEED Gold standards.\n\nIn 2010, the Durst Organization bid on and won the right to invest $100 million in the One World Trade Center development becoming a co-developer with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.\n\nThe contract negotiated between the Port Authority and the Durst Organization specifies that the Durst Organization will receive a $15 million fee and a percentage of “base building changes that result in net economic benefit to the project.” The specifics of the signed contract give Durst 75 percent of savings up to $24 million and stepping down thereafter (to 50 percent, 25 percent and 15 percent) as the savings increased. Durst had offered to work for a fixed $35 million fee, but the Port chose the incentive fee arrangement. Significant changes to the building have been made since his joining of the project,\n\nIn May 2010, Douglas Durst, former Vice President Al Gore, and New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg officially opened the Bank of America Tower. It was the first high-rise commercial tower to receive LEED platinum rating in the United States. The 55 story, 2.1 million square foot building located on the corner of Sixth Avenue and 42nd Street was designed by Cookfox Architects.\n\nIn June 2009 a group of banks provided Bank of America and Durst Organization $1.28 Billion to refinance the building. Bank of America provided half of the loan. The other parts came from New York Mellon Corp., Wells Fargo, Westdeutsche Immobilien Bank, and Helaba Bank.\n\nIn the early 2000s, architect Bjarke Ingels met Durst when he was in Copenhagen with his wife, Susanne, a native of Denmark. He visited Ingels' studio in February 2010.\n\nIn spring 2010, Durst Fetner Residential commissioned Bjarke Ingels Group (BIG) to bring a new residential typology to Manhattan. In 2011, BIG opened an office in New York to supervise W57's development and construction. Completed in 2016, West 57 is a 709-unit, four sided, pyramid shaped tower of apartments on West Fifty-seventh Street.\n\nDouglas is a director of The New School, The Trust for Public Land, Project for Public Spaces, and the Roundabout Theatre Company. He is a trustee of the Old York Foundation, which was established by his father, to help educate people about the history and ongoing problems of New York City. Durst is also a prominent environmentalist and operates one of the largest organic farms in New York State.\n\nIn 1987, Durst purchased a piece of land from Ray McEnroe, the owner of an organic farm in Dutchess County, New York, some 100 miles north of Manhattan. He purchased the land to dispose of his horses' manure in an environmentally friendly way. Durst later partnered with McEnroe, and now the farm is 500 acres, and among the top 25% of organic farms in the United States.\n\nIn 1967, he married Susanne Durst, a Danish national whom he met in Denmark after college.\n\nThey have three children:\n\nDouglas Durst suffered a severe leg injury in 1972 when a coal-fired water heater exploded in a Newfoundland house where he was then living with his wife and young family. “I should’ve died there,” Durst would later tell \"The New York Times\". “It changed my whole outlook on life. I had to get more serious about what I was doing\", he said, moving back to the family real estate business following months of recuperation. After suffering more than four decades of pain, part of Durst's lower right leg was amputated in 2015. He walks today with the help of a prosthesis.\n\nIn 2001, his estranged brother Robert Durst was charged with murdering a neighbor and dismembering his body in Galveston, Texas. Pleading self-defense, he was acquitted of the murder charge. Douglas was interviewed by \"The New York Times\" in January 2015, and was quoted as saying about Robert: \"There's no doubt in my mind that if he had the opportunity to kill me, he would.\"\n\nDouglas Durst told \"The New York Times\" in December 2015 that he believed, until 2001, in his brother's innocence regarding Kathleen McCormack Durst's \"disappearance\" in 1982. Contrary to his brother's assertions to the documentary filmmakers of \"The Jinx\", he was never privy to his father's meetings with a lawyer and private detective tasked with investigating Kathleen's disappearance. \"I’m going to be a witness in Los Angeles\" for the prosecution of his brother for the murder of Susan Berman, whom investigators believe Durst murdered because she knew details of Robert's role in his wife Kathleen's death, \"so they don’t want me to talk too much about anything after 2001\", Douglas Durst said.\n"}
{"id": "7255246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7255246", "title": "Dyal–Upchurch Building", "text": "Dyal–Upchurch Building\n\nThe Dyal–Upchurch Building (also known as the Dyal–Upchurch Investment Company Building) is a six-story, 43,747-square-foot historic building in Jacksonville, Florida. It is located at 4 East Bay Street, and was designed by architect Henry John Klutho. On April 17, 1980, it was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.\n\nFollowing Jacksonville's Great Fire of 1901, the building was the first multi-story structure built in the barren downtown area and the first design by Klutho in Jacksonville. Construction began on a five-story building, but demand for office space spurred the addition of a sixth floor. As the name states, Dyal–Upchurch was a Georgia investment company that moved to Jacksonville after the fire. Frank Upchurch had interests in turpentine and lumber, while Benjamin Dyal owned a sawmill. The company ceased business in Jacksonville after 1924.\n\nThe \"Atlantic National Bank\" was founded shortly after the Dyal–Upchurch building opened in May, 1902 and was located on the first floor until their own building was constructed in 1909. Other tenants have included an office of the National Weather Service, a regional office for the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, law offices and a financial advice company.\n\nWhen the building was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1980, it became eligible to use rehabilitation tax credits when restoration work was performed in 1981, the first building in Jacksonville to do so.\n\nThe Husk Jennings advertising company bought the building in 1998 for $1.6 million and spent $600,000 to renovate the top floor, where the firm relocated.\n\nIn May, 2002, the city established the \"Downtown Historic Preservation and Revitalization Trust Fund\" with $7 million to assist companies that purchase and restore old buildings. The fund could pay up to half the cost of exterior work and one-fifth of interior work with a $1 million cap per building. That was sufficient incentive for Husk Jennings to begin a $1.72 million restoration of the rest of the building, for which the city kicked in almost $340,000.\nCameron Kuhn, a commercial developer from Orlando, Florida, purchased the building in December, 2005 for $4.5 million, but defaulted on the mortgage when his company declared bankruptcy in 2008. The Dyal–Upchurch building was repossessed by The Jacksonville Bank in January, and sold on February 28, 2009 for $3.73 million to A. Duda & Sons of Oviedo, Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "46207428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46207428", "title": "Edwin E. Tozer", "text": "Edwin E. Tozer\n\nEdwin Ellis (Ed) Tozer (born 1943) is a British retired management and IT consultant and SF author, particularly known for his early work on business information systems in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nTozer started his career in the manufacturing and mining industry. In 1969 he became junior systems analyst at the management consultancy firm Scicon in London; a subsidiary of British Petroleum, originally known as Scientific Control Systems, chaired by Sir Maurice Kendall. After spells with other consulting firms, he worked with James Martin's European operation from 1982 to 1984.\n\nIn 1984 he founded Edwin E. Tozer Limited, specialized in data management study, which he dissolved after his retirement in 2008. In 1984 he published his first book, entitled \"Application Development Tools.\" in 1988 his second book, \"Planning for effective business Information systems,\" and in 1996 his third book, entitled \"Strategic Is/It Planning.\"\n\nSince his retirement in the new millennium he has been writing SF literature.\n\nIn the 1970s Tozer became involved in the CODASYL development of database languages, and wrote his first articles on databases and systems analysis and design He specialized in \"effective application of Information Technology to business and administrative problems.\"\n\nIn the 1976 article \"Database Systems Analysis and Design,\" Tozer made a comparison between the database field and the evolving field of the Programming technology. He argued:\n\nDevelopments in the database field have tended to emphasise programming technology, with a dearth of accompanying progress in systems analysis and design methods. This paper puts forward an overall view of system design which is intended to act as a constraining framework. It is based upon a pragmatic approach and is presented in a form which could be (and is being) used on large scale implementation projects.\n\nAnd furthermore:\nOrderly analysis and design procedures are encouraged. The taking of premature design decisions is discouraged, especially through the recognition of three distinct views of data: conceptual, implementation and storage, and through recognition of distinctions between design of each of these, specification of mappings between them, and design of programs and run sequences. It is envisaged that specific procedures developed elsewhere (see references) could be incorporated into the methodology described here.\n\nIn the 1989 article \"Developing strategies for management information systems,\" Tozer presented a model for developing information systems. Tozer's approach was based on his experience of \"planning projects in a variety of industries, including wholesale and retail banking, consumer credit, chemicals, Multinational manufacturing and distribution and the oil industry.\" Tozer presented a model, which consisted of the following four phases:\n\n\nThe key features of this model, according to Azad (1990) were:\n\nIn this 1986 paper Tozer was one of the first to propose the concept of business architecture in the field of business information systems planning.\n\nIn his 1988 \"Planning for effective business Information systems,\" Tozer developed a particular view on Enterprise Data Planning, that dealt with the complexities of extracting key business needs from senior management and then defining relevant architectural visions for the specific enterprise.\n\nIn the early 1980s James Martin had been one of the pathfinders in data planning methodologies. He was one of the first to identify data as being an enterprise wide asset that required management, and had developed a series of tools and methods to support that process.\nMost of the large consulting firms developed their own methods to address the same basic issue. Frequently, their approaches were incorporated into their own branded system development methodologies that encompassed the complete systems development life-cycle.\n\nTozer's \"Strategic IS/IT Planning\", was published in 1996 by Butterworth Heinemann as part of the Datamation Professional Series. The book mentioned to offer: \n\nThe book was the most comprehensive outline of Tozer's approaches, though it now appears very dated; for example because it didn't even mention the Internet.\n\nIn his 2010 science fiction novel \"Morphosis,\" Tozer has been \"speculating that mankind as an evolving species may still be in an early, vulnerable, fledgling state, as much at risk from itself as from environmental factors and competition from other species... [and] sometimes wonders whether it may be necessary - albeit difficult - for us as a species to shed some of the attributes and ingrained reflexes such as our tendency to violent conflict which we developed during our evolutionary struggle for survival so far before we can hope to reach our destiny as a mature species on the wider stage.\"\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n"}
{"id": "56057622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56057622", "title": "European Union food quality scandal", "text": "European Union food quality scandal\n\nThe European Union food quality scandal is a controversy claiming that certain food brands and items targeted at Central and Eastern European Union countries' markets are of lower quality than their exact equivalent produced for the Western European Union markets.\n\nEuropean Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker acknowledged the issue in his State of the Union address pledging funding to help national food authorities test the inferior products and start tackle the food inequality and in April 2018 EU Justice and Consumers Commissioner Věra Jourová stated that \"“We will step up the fight against dual food quality. We have amended the Unfair Commercial Practice Directive to make it black and white that dual food quality is forbidden.\"\n"}
{"id": "651421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=651421", "title": "Faculty consulting", "text": "Faculty consulting\n\nConsulting by faculty members is the use of scholarly expertise for the benefit of organizations outside the scholarly community through friendship, volunteering or in return for some sort of compensation.\n\nUniversities have widely varying policies on faculty consulting, generally limiting the proportion of a faculty member's time, which may be spent on consulting, and instituting rules to avoid conflicts of interest.\n\nConsulting is distinguished from activities, which are scholarly or creative, from public service, and from outside activities which are unrelated to the area of scholarly expertise. For instance, a professor of history who designs sailboats on the side is not considered to be consulting, although a professor of engineering might be.\n\n"}
{"id": "30181383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30181383", "title": "Felix Mandl", "text": "Felix Mandl\n\nFelix Mandl (born December 16, 1898, date of death unknown) was a Croatian businessman and entrepreneur.\n\nMandl was born in Wien as the fourth child of a wealthy Jewish family. He studied agriculture and philosophy in Göttingen at the University of Göttingen.\n\nMandl's grandfather founded a cement plant in 1867, which had a branch plant in Podsused, district of Zagreb, Croatia. Later that plant was turned from craft into a corporation with headquarters in Zurich. Mandl was supposed to move to Zurich, but with Adolf Hitler's rise to power, he changed his mind. Plant in Podsused was named \"Croatia\".\n\nDuring the World War II he moved to Zagreb from where he guided the plant in Podsused. Soon he became a victim of political regimes. When the Ustashe came to power in Croatia, they began to threaten him with murder because he was a Jew. His plant was taken away from him by NDH regime. Mandl ended up in jail due to listening the BBC radio program, which was banned at the time. He was also arrested by the Gestapo, but was released after five days due to \"economic reasons\", while other prisoners that were with Mandl in detention were sent to Nazi concentration camps. After the war Mandl was tried by the communist regime of SFR Yugoslavia for alleged collaboration with the fascist government, which was never proven. He was sentenced to ten years of forced labor. Mandl was taken to Lepoglava prison, from which he was released after two years when it was discovered that during the war he helped a Partisan fighters.\n\nIn the nationalization by the communist regime, Mandl was left without any factory, except the one in Podsused, which was later renamed to \"Sloboda\", but was soon afterwards destroyed.\n\nIn Kenya in 1951 Mandl founded Bamburi Cement, one of largest cement companies in Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nMandl was married to Ana Bing from 1931. During World War II he had sent his wife to Budapest, out of a fear that Zagreb was no longer safe for her. Mandl's wife returned to Zagreb after a month, although the threat still existed. While in prison in Lepoglava, Mandl had regularly visits from his wife. On December 5, 1950 Mandl and his wife emigrated to Kenya.\n\nMandl wrote the book \"Usprkos svemu ostaju sjećanja (In spite of all the memories remain)\", in which he described his life.\n"}
{"id": "31893908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31893908", "title": "G.9963", "text": "G.9963\n\nRecommendation G.9963 is a home networking standard under development at the International Telecommunication Union standards sector, the ITU-T.\n\nIt was begun in 2010 by ITU-T to add multiple-input and multiple-output (known as MIMO) capabilities to the G.hn standard originally defined in Recommendation G.9960. The standard is also known as \"G.hn-mimo\".\n\nAs part of the family of G.hn standards, G.9963 was endorsed by the HomeGrid Forum.\n"}
{"id": "8553629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8553629", "title": "Harold Gatty", "text": "Harold Gatty\n\nHarold Charles Gatty (5 January 1903 – 30 August 1957) was an Australian navigator and aviation pioneer. Charles Lindbergh called Gatty the \"Prince of Navigators\". In 1931, Gatty served as navigator, along with pilot Wiley Post, on the flight which set the record for aerial circumnavigation of the world, flying a distance of 15,747 miles (24,903 km) in a Lockheed Vega named the \"Winnie Mae\", in 8 days, 15 hours and 51 minutes.\n\nGatty was born on 5 January 1903 in Campbell Town, Tasmania.\n\nHe began his career as a navigator in 1917, at age 14, when he was appointed a midshipman at the Royal Australian Naval College. After World War I, he became an apprentice on a steamship in the Australian merchant navy, where he learned constellations while standing night watch. He became an expert in celestial navigation and served on many ships, some sailing between Australia and California. After the Navy, he worked in Sydney Harbour provisioning vessels anchored there. In 1927 he relocated to California.\n\nGatty opened a navigation school, teaching marine navigation to yachtsmen. In 1928, his attention turned to air navigation.\n\nIn 1929, Gatty navigated a Lockheed Vega on a flight from Los Angeles to New York City for Nevada Airlines, in an effort to demonstrate the feasibility of coast-to-coast passenger service. The flight made four stops and took 19 hours and 53 minutes, which set the transcontinental airspeed record for a commercial airliner.\n\nIn 1930, Gatty prepared a coast-to-coast route and navigation charts for Anne Morrow Lindbergh, whom he had also taught as a student. Anne Lindbergh served as navigator with her husband Charles on a record-setting cross-country flight of 14 hours and 45 minutes.\n\nThe next year, Wiley Post asked Gatty to accompany him on an effort to break the world record for circumnavigating the earth, which was previously set at 21 days by the \"Graf Zeppelin\" airship. Gatty accepted, hoping to demonstrate the effectiveness of his navigation methods. The journey began on 23 June 1931 at Roosevelt Field in New York and followed a 15,000-mile course across Europe, Russia, and Siberia, due to the lack of suitable airfields nearer the equator. Post and Gatty crossed the Atlantic in a record time of 16 hours and 17 minutes and continued to Berlin, Moscow, and Khabarovsk, then crossed the Bering Sea, landing on the beach near Solomon, Alaska, then to Edmonton, Alberta, arriving finally back at Roosevelt Field after 8 days, 15 hours, and 51 minutes. The pair received a tickertape parade in New York City.\n\nAir navigation in Gatty's time used dead reckoning. When setting out for a destination the aircraft heading is taken with respect to a compass. Motion over the earth is determined by the wind triangle. Heading must therefore be compensated for wind speed as well as drift rate. \nIn 1931 Popular Mechanics published an article featuring Gatty's method for computing the wind drift experienced by an aircraft:\n\nThe article also lauds the artificial horizon and turn and bank indicator that Post and Gatty used, which was developed by Lawrence Sperry and manufactured by the Sperry Gyroscope Company.\n\nA year after the circumnavigation with Wiley Post, the US Congress passed a bill allowing civilians to receive the Distinguished Flying Cross. President Hoover presented the medals to Gatty and Post at the White House on August 18, 1932. Gatty was offered American citizenship and the newly created position of Senior Aerial Navigation Engineer for the US Army Air Corps. Gatty expressed his wish to remain associated with Australia and Congress passed a bill allowing foreign citizens to hold that post.\n\nIn 1934, Gatty formed the South Seas Commercial Company with Donald Douglas, with the plan to deliver air service to the islands of the South Pacific. However, the company was soon sold to Pan Am who brought Gatty into the company to organise flight routes in that region.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Gatty was given the honorary rank of group captain in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) and worked for the US Army Air Forces (USAAF) in the South Pacific. He was later appointed director of Air Transport for the Allied forces, based in Australia, under General Douglas MacArthur. Gatty moved to Washington, D.C. in 1943 where he worked on a navigational supplement to a survival kit for Air Force personnel flying over the Pacific in the event they should become castaways.\n\nGatty produced \"The Raft Book: Lore of the Sea and Sky\" to fill the need:\n\nAfter World War II, Gatty relocated to Fiji with his Dutch-born second wife. Here he formed Fiji Airways which later became Air Pacific, subsequently the company name was changed in 2013 back to Fiji Airways.\n\nGatty suffered a stroke and died in 1957. He was buried in Fiji.\n\nIn the end, Gatty advocated \"natural navigation\" in his book \"Nature is your Guide\" which was published in 1958. He expanded on the ideas of \"The Raft Book\" and developed a narrative of Pacific settlement by Polynesian navigators following migration of seabirds. He attributed cultural significance to the use of the pelorus by ancient Polynesians.\n\n"}
{"id": "14908102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14908102", "title": "Humanistic capitalism", "text": "Humanistic capitalism\n\nHumanistic capitalism is a concept that seeks to marry humanism, specifically the safety and health needs of people and the environment, with an embrace of market forces and a market-based economy.\n\nMuhammad Yunus describes Humanistic Capitalism as a socially conscious business world where investors are content to recoup their investments but do not expect additional dividends. \nThe idea of humanistic capitalism is linked with the idea that fundamental changes must take place in economics today, as humanistic capitalism requires that there be a blending of the non-profit and for-profit sectors. If investors can accept the decrease in financial returns for those on a social level, humanistic capitalism will become a successful force in driving economic and social change. Philanthropy is a fundamental concept to humanistic capitalism. While the idea of humanistic capitalism is still growing, over “72% percent of social entrepreneurs say that raising money is a problem,” and fundraising is a major issue to social entrepreneurs, who rely on philanthropy for support and funding.\n\nThere are also many businesses today that already combine the needs of the environment with the needs of people and the environment. SustainAbility, a company established in 1987, defines their purpose as to “seek solutions to social and environmental challenges that deliver long term value,” and has worked on projects to “identify opportunities to innovate products and services with a reduced environmental footprint.” \n\nJEP Foundation promotes the philosophies of Humanistic Capitalism to create a kinder, gentler economic approach. The principles of Just Enough Profit (JEP) are used by companies to define what they stand for, how they treat their customers and employees, and how they serve humanity.\n\nIn Willis Harman's seminal paper \"Humanistic Capitalism: Another Alternative\" (Journal of Humanistic Psychology, Vol. 14, No. 1, Winter 1974) he writes \"...corporations [must] assume an active responsibility for creating a healthy society and a habitable planet—not as a gesture to improve corporate image or as a moralistically undertaken responsibility, but because it is the only reasonable long-run interpretation of \"good business.\" In the end, good business policy must become one with good social policy.\"\n\nIra Rohter, a professor in the Political Science Department at the University of Hawaii, promoted Humanistic Capitalism as a way to restore power to the people of Hawaii and their environment. He advocated that all growth be sustainable, self-reliant, and not only focused on profit, but the needs of people. Another key concept of humanistic capitalism, he added, is a democratic economy way based on “cooperation [and] openness” in order to meet the needs of Hawaii’s people and environment.\n"}
{"id": "54528449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54528449", "title": "Ido Leffler", "text": "Ido Leffler\n\nIdo Leffler is an Israeli-born Australian entrepreneur, investor, and advisor. He is the co-founder of Yoobi, Yes To Inc., Cheeky, Brandless, and Beach House Group.\n\nEach of the companies Leffler has founded and co-founded incorporates a social mission; Yoobi donates school supplies to children; Yes To Inc. provides nutrition resources for children in Africa; Cheeky and Brandless donate meals through Feeding America; and Beach House Group supports charities including KaBOOM, which funds playgrounds for children.\n\nLeffler is the co-author of \"Get Big Fast and Do More Good: Start Your Business, Make It Huge, and Change the World,\" a guide to entrepreneurship and brand-building. He has invested in or advised companies including Birchbox, Dollar Shave Club, and RangeMe.\n\nLeffler was born in Israel to Dan Leffler, an engineer and entrepreneur, and Yaffa Leffler, a school teacher. When he was five, the family emigrated to Sydney, where his father built a property development company. In 1993, as Australia hit a major recession, the residential market collapsed and the company failed. The Lefflers lost their life savings and their home.\nAble to afford only the essentials, if Leffler \"wanted to do anything – go to the movies, travel, buy something – it was up to him to figure out how to pay for it.\" In order to do so, he got a job at a grocery store, and then Psycho Chicken, a restaurant. At 18, he started his first business with his best friend, Evan Lever. Called the Roving Bakery, it was a home delivery service for breads and bagels.\n\nTo help make ends meet, while working full-time as a school teacher, Yaffa Leffler began a successful Herbalife distributorship. Dan Leffler joined her as the business grew. In 1996 Ido Leffler attended the University of Technology Sydney. He graduated with a bachelor of business degree in marketing and international business in 1999. He then decided to join his parents and became an Herbalife distributor in Indonesia and then in India.\n\nAfter returning from India, Leffler founded Trendtrade International with Lance Kalish, an alumnus of UTS whom Leffler met in 1997 through playing soccer. It focused on international business development. In 2006, they founded Yes To Inc., then known as Yes To Carrots. Based in Tel Aviv, the company produced and marketed organic hair and skincare products. The company name was derived from Leffler's philosophy: \"Say yes to positivity.\" As of 2017, Yes To Inc. was sold in over 25,000 stores in the United States, Canada, and the UK.\n\nIn founding Yes To Inc., Leffler and Kalish established the Yes To Carrots Seed Fund, a non-profit organization that provided under-served communities with the resources to develop and sustain organic food sources and access to healthy nutrition. In 2012, the company partnered with Mama Hope to create Yes To Hope, which provided schools with funding for year-round organic gardens. \n\nLeffler co-founded SOMA Water in 2012 and served as the chairman of its board until May 2017. A water filtration system composed of carafes and biodegradable filtration systems, SOMA donated clean drinking water to people in need through a philanthropic partner, charity: water.\n\nLeffler and Kalish founded Yoobi in June 2014. A school and office supply brand, the idea for Yoobi was based on Leffler's experience shopping for school supplies for his children. He saw a \"distinct lack of vision and creativity\" in the products available. After learning that 99.5% of the elementary school teachers in the United States paid for classroom supplies out of their own pocket, Leffler and Kalish established a one-for-one system; each time a Yoobi product was purchased, an item such as crayons, pens, and rulers was added to a pack of school supplies which contained 1000 products. Yoobi worked with the Kids In Need Foundation to determine what students needed.\n\nIn 2014, Leffler co-founded Cheeky Home, a line of paper and plastic tableware. The company donated a meal to Americans facing hunger through the nonprofit organization Feeding America for every product sold. He also co-founded Beach House Group, a brand and product development company. Beach House Group supports Clean the World, Girl Up, Kaboom and Starlight Children’s Foundation.\n\nLeffler founded Brandless with Tina Sharkey in early 2014. Described by \"Fortune\" as the \"Procter and Gamble for millennials,\" the company creates and sells organic and natural products. For every order placed at Brandless.com a meal is donated through Feeding America. Brandless launched in July 2017.\n\nIn 2016, Leffler appeared as a judge on the Oxygen television series \"Quit Your Day Job.\" A reality show which allowed entrepreneurs to pitch their business ideas to the panel of entrepreneurs and investors, \"Quit Your Day Job\" focused on women and minority entrepreneurs.\n\nLeffler and Kalish wrote a guide to modern entrepreneurship, \"Get Big Fast and Do More Good,\" published by Harcourt in 2014. Kalish and Leffler described the book as \"very simply, operating a business in an ethical, moral way with equal regard to our consumers, our partners, the environment and the well-being of everyone involved in the production of our products.\"\n\nHe is an investor in and advisor for a wide variety of startups and established companies, and serves on the board of directors for Spark New Zealand.\nLeffler lives in Melbourne, Australia with his wife and their three children. He is a member of the Melbourne branch of the Young Presidents Organization, and serves as a trustee for the Asia Society and as a co-chair of their Center for Global Education. He is an emeritus council member of the United Nations Foundation Global Entrepreneurs.\n\nLeffler received the 2017 Retail Innovator Award from Retail Touch Points and the UTS Alumni Award for Excellence by the UTS Business School. He won the 2015 Chancellor’s Award for Excellence, and the Starlight Foundation's 2015 Innovator Award, which recognizes individuals and corporations who have made significant contributions to communities with the goal of promoting positive social impact. He was also named one of \"Fast Company's\" \"Most Creative People.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7793092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7793092", "title": "International Institute of Directors", "text": "International Institute of Directors\n\nThe International Institute of Directors (IIOD) is an international organization set up in 1985 to support and set standards for business strategic growth and personal professional development. Organizations such as the Centre for Professional Development exixt to assist business owners and company directors.\n\nThe IIOD currently runs small support network groups called RHINO Groups, who offer real support for businesses in the countries in which the IIOD (International Institute of Directors) operates.\n"}
{"id": "14747039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14747039", "title": "International Society for Labor Law and Social Security", "text": "International Society for Labor Law and Social Security\n\nThe International Society for Labour and Social Security Law is an international association whose purpose is to study labour and social security law at the national and international level, to promote the exchange of ideas and information from a comparative perspective, and to encourage collaboration among academics, lawyers, and other experts within the fields of labour and social security law.\n\nFounded in 1958, the ISLSSL is composed of national affiliates whose members are scholars, union and management lawyers, judges, government officials, arbitrators, industrial relations and human resources specialists, and others interested in promoting international exchange of ideas and information and in developing collaboration among experts in the fields of labor, employment and employee benefits law.\n\nThe current members of the Executive Committee are Steven L. Willborn (Chair), George Nicolau, Vice-Chair, and Alvin L. Goldman, Secretary-Treasurer.\n\nFor many of those active in issues in the workplace, the internationalization of labor law and relations is becoming a reality. To highlight just a few areas in this field of growing attention to the global legal landscape, those in academia work on issues of comparative labor and employment law, union lawyers consider international aspects of comprehensive corporate campaigns in support of the objectives of their clients, and management attorneys are increasingly called upon to give advice on the international ramifications of the employment policies of their employer clients. \n\nThe ISLSSL conducts a World Congress every three years and Regional Congresses (open to registrants from all regions) during the interim years. These meetings allow members both to combine travel with expanded understanding of how labor and employment law operate elsewhere and explain their system to others. ISLSSL conferences also facilitate development of new personal contacts and promote important scholarship, education and training in the fields of comparative and international labor law, employment law, and related fields. \n\nIn recent years, ISLSSL World Congresses were convened in Jerusalem in 2000, in Montevideo in 2003, in Paris in 2006, in Sydney, Australia in 2009 and in Santiago, Chile in 2012. A World Congress will be hosted in Cape Town, South Africa in 2015. \n\nThe ISLSSL maintains several regional branches. Recent Western Hemisphere Regional Congresses have been held in Lima, Peru; Querétaro, Mexico; and in the Dominican Republic. Recent Asian Regional Congresses were hosted in Manilla and Taipai, and recent European Regional Congresses were held in Stockholm, Bologna, Sevilla (2011) and Dublin (2014). In addition, the U.S. Branch sponsored a one day conferences in Chicago in May 2005 and in Philadelphia in 2012.\n\nThe U.S. Branch of the ISLSSL and the University of Illinois College of Law publish \"The Comparative Labor Law and Policy Journal\", a quarterly law journal which publishes articles in the field of comparative and transnational labor and employment law. The journal publishes comparative analysis articles on labor law, employment policy, labor economics, worker migration, and social security issues. Many articles focus on legal systems in developing countries or post-colonial nations with emerging or new legal systems. The target audience for the journal is academics, practicing attorneys, policy makers, students, workers and labor movement officials and activists. The journal's stated policy is to make the publication readable and of practical value to officials in developing countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47342264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47342264", "title": "Jacobus Enschedé", "text": "Jacobus Enschedé\n\nJacobus Enschedé I (19 March 1753 in Haarlem –1 January 1783 in Haarlem) was a Haarlem newspaper editor and printer.\n\nHe was a son of Johannes Enschedé and Helena Hoefnagel. For some time he was a partner in the family company. On 7 September 1779 in Haarlem he married Gertruida Elisabeth van Oosten de Bruyn (Haarlem, 6 June 1759 –Velsen, 24 October 1810) the daughter of Mr. Gerrit Willem van Oosten de Bruyn and Maria Croon. He had no descendants in the company.\n\n"}
{"id": "39592800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39592800", "title": "James Ferragamo", "text": "James Ferragamo\n\nJames Ferragamo ( born on November 7, 1971) is a businessman from Italy and a member of family of Ferragamo. Now he is the Men's and Women’s Leather Product Director for the Salvatore Ferragamo S.p.A..\n\nJames is the twin son of Ferruccio Ferragamo, who is Chairman of Salvatore Ferragamo S.p.A, and his grandfather Salvatore Ferragamo is the founder of the brand.\n\nHe is a graduate of New York University Stern School of Business.\n\nNow he is the Women's and Men's Shoes and Leather goods Division Director for Salvatore Ferragamo S.p.A..\n\n"}
{"id": "472844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=472844", "title": "John Motley Morehead", "text": "John Motley Morehead\n\nJohn Motley Morehead (July 4, 1796 – August 27, 1866) was an American lawyer and politician who became the 29th Governor of the U.S. state of North Carolina (1841 to 1845). He became known as \"the Father of Modern North Carolina.\"\n\nBorn in Pittsylvania County, Virginia, Morehead was the son of Obedience (Motley) and John Morehead. His parents moved to Rockingham County, North Carolina when Morehead was two.\n\nAfter a private education including the Caldwell Institute in Greensboro, Morehead attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. There he became a member of The Dialectic and Philanthropic Societies, and graduated in 1817.\n\nMorehead read law under Archibald Murphey and was admitted to the North Carolina bar in 1819. He practiced law in Wentworth, North Carolina. In 1821, Rockingham County voters first elected him to serve in the North Carolina General Assembly. Beginning in 1826, Guilford County voters twice elected Morehead to represent them in the North Carolina House of Commons. In 1835, Morehead was chosen to be a delegate to the state Constitutional Convention, where he advocated representation based on population (which benefitted western North Carolina because of its relatively few enslaved people).\n\nVoters elected Morehead governor in 1840, and he became the first governor inaugurated in the new State Capitol. During his two gubernatorial terms, Morehead supported the new public school system, extending railroad lines, river and harbor improvements and constructing canals and turnpikes, but the Democrats in the state legislature passed few of those measures. During his final year, Morehead supported creation of a school for the deaf, which would be named in his honor.\n\nAfter his term as governor ended in 1845, Morehead returned to his home, Blandwood, in Greensboro, North Carolina, designed by New York City architect Alexander Jackson Davis. There, Morehead entertained numerous politicians and personalities of the day, including Dorothea Dix.\n\nMorehead helped raise private funds for a railroad line to accompany $2 million finally authorized by the legislature, which became the North Carolina Railroad. In 1854, Morehead became the first president and the railroad's terminus was named Morehead City, North Carolina in his honor in 1860. His successor at the railroad, Charles Frederick Fisher, however, endured significant criticism during the intervening years. Morehead also built a cotton mill in Leaksville, and served on the Board of Trustees of UNC, his alma mater.\n\nMorehead returned to the North Carolina house in 1858. In 1861, he represented North Carolina at a conference to avoid war. With the failure of the conference and the secession of North Carolina, Morehead served in the Confederate Congress.\n\nMorehead died at Rockbridge Springs, Virginia in 1866. He is buried in the Old First Presbyterian Church Cemetery located at the Greensboro Historical Museum in Greensboro.\n\nHis grandson, John Motley Morehead III (United States Ambassador to Sweden 1930-33), bequeathed to the University of North Carolina $130 million, commissioned the university's planetarium, and funded the John Motley Morehead Foundation. His granddaughter Lily Morehead Mebane was decorated by the governments of France and Serbia for her relief work after World War I; she later served two terms in the North Carolina state legislature.\n"}
{"id": "57814929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57814929", "title": "John Richardson Harris", "text": "John Richardson Harris\n\nJohn Richardson Harris (22 October 1790 – 21 August 1829) was an early settler of Mexican Texas and the namesake of Harris County, Texas. He founded the town of Harrisburg, Texas and Harris County, Texas is named in his honor.\n\nJohn Richardson Harris was born on 22 October 1790 to John and Mary (Richardson) Harris in Cayuga, New York. After serving in the War of 1812, he married Jane Birdsall, and they took residence near Waterloo, New York. Their first sons were born there: DeWitt Clinton Harris and Lewis Birdsall Harris. The family migrated to Ste. Genevieve, Missouri in 1819, where Mary Jane Harris and John Birdsall Harris were born.\n\nHarris prepared to locate to Texas at the urging of Moses Austin. To prepare for this gamble, he resettled his family in upstate New York. In 1823, he sailed his boat from New Orleans to Buffalo Bayou, where he scouted locations for a trading post. \nHarris was granted a league of land at Buffalo Bayou on 16 August 1824. He contracted for a town plat of Harrisburg in 1826, while he established a trading post and a grist mill there. He named the new town for Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, the namesake of his great-grandfather. In addition to the grist mill, he ran a saw mill with the assistance of his two brothers, David Harris and William Plunkett Harris, and his business partner, Robert Wilson. They also offered carpentry and blacksmithing services. Harris and Wilson managed a small fleet of sailing ships, which imported trade goods from the United States and Mexico, and exported cotton and lumber. John Richardson and David Harris founded a second trading post at Bell’s Landing, Texas.\n\nHarris started building what was the first steam saw mill in Texas. With machine belts needed to complete the project, he sailed to New Orleans. He arrived amidst a yellow fever epidemic and died there on 21 August 1829.\n\nIn 1833, two parties filed claims on the John Harris Richardson estate. Wilson and William Plunkett Harris claimed the real estate and equipment as their own. John Richardson Harris’s widow, Jane Harris, and DeWitt Clinton Harris arrived in Texas for the first time to make a competing claim. In 1836, Augustus Chapman Allen and John Kirby Allen approached the Harrises to make a bid on the Harrisburg site, but ownership of the property had still not been settled. By 1838, Mary Jane Harris and her family constructed a house on that property and reorganized the town in order to sell lots.\n\nHarris County, Texas was named for John Richardson Harris.\n"}
{"id": "44384387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44384387", "title": "Julio Camillo Bellache", "text": "Julio Camillo Bellache\n\nJulio Camillo Bellache (Paris, May 1, 1836 - Curitiba, August 25, 1895) was a businessman French-Brazilian.\n\nJulio Camillo Belache was born in Paris, France, on May 1, 1836. He migrated to Brazil, where he married Austrian immigrant Katharina Johanna Francisca Sprenger, born on June 12, 1844, in Elmen, in the Tyrol region, Austria. Together they had four children: Carlos, Julio, Paulina and Rosina. He developed several commercial activities, owning a hardware store, a haberdashery and grocery store and a tannery. He was one of the directors of Curitiba Immigration Society. He died in Curitiba, on August 28, 1895.\n"}
{"id": "1367860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1367860", "title": "Justin Berfield", "text": "Justin Berfield\n\nJustin Tyler Berfield (born February 25, 1986) is an American actor, writer, and producer, best known for his portrayal of Malcolm's second-oldest brother, Reese, in the Fox sitcom \"Malcolm in the Middle\". He also starred on The WB sitcom \"Unhappily Ever After\" as Ross Malloy. As of 2010, Berfield is Chief Creative Officer of Virgin Produced, a film and television development, packaging, and production company announced in 2010 by the Virgin Group. Virgin Produced is based in Los Angeles, California.\n\nBerfield was born in Agoura Hills, California, the son of Gail Berfield (née Stark) and Eric \"Rick\" Berfield. He is the younger brother of actor Lorne Berfield. Berfield is Jewish. He bought and then later sold the house previously owned by \"\" stars Jessica Simpson and Nick Lachey.\n\nBerfield's first screen appearance was in a Folgers coffee commercial at age five. He went on to appear in 20 other nationally broadcast American commercials as a young child. His TV debut came in the short-lived series \"The Good Life\" (1994) in which he co-starred with Drew Carey. More TV appearances followed in \"Hardball\", \"The Boys Are Back\", \"The Mommies\" (1994–1995).\n\nHis first long-running TV role was as Ross Malloy in \"Unhappily Ever After\" (1995–1999), in which he notched up 100 episode appearances. Beginning in 2000 he gained international prominence with his role as Malcolm's trouble-making older brother Reese in \"Malcolm in the Middle\". He appeared in all 151 episodes of that series, and with the recording of the 100th episode became the youngest actor in screen history to have appeared in 100 episodes of two different TV series. Since the conclusion of \"Malcolm in the Middle\" in 2006, Berfield has concentrated on production work, although he made a one-off appearance in the series \"Sons of Tucson\" in 2010.\n\nIn 2001, Berfield was asked to serve as a National Youth Ambassador for Ronald McDonald House Charities, in which he participated for three years until turning 18. He has been active with St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and most recently Virgin Unite, the charitable arm of Virgin Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "25208412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25208412", "title": "Omar A. Ali", "text": "Omar A. Ali\n\nOmar Abdi Ali (, ) is a Somali entrepreneur, accountant, financial consultant, philanthropist, and a leading specialist on Islamic finance. From 1986 to 1999, he was CEO of Dar al-Maal al-Islami Trust (DMI Trust), a Middle Eastern financial and banking group, which under his management increased its assets from $1.6 billion USD to $4.0 billion USD. Omar is currently the chairman and founder of the multinational real estate corporation \"Integrated Property Investments Limited\" and its sister company \"Quadron Investments\".\n\nOmar graduated in 1964 as a certified accountant from the Leeds College of Commerce in the United Kingdom. He returned to Somalia, where he joined the Ministry of Finance and became a Deputy Accountant General. He also assumed the role of Director of Finance in the African Development Bank Group, helping transform the pilot project into a multi-regional initiative.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1983, Omar would take up positions in the Gulf States and Europe as a financial consultant. In 1983, he became CEO of the Islamic financial institution the DMI Trust based in Geneva, Switzerland. Under his tenure, DMI became a leading Islamic Financial Institution and its assets increased from $1.6 billion USD to $4 billion USD, with Omar managing a worldwide staff of 1,400 employees in three continents. He became Vice-President of the Bahraini Faisal Private Bank, and established their most profitable branches in Pakistan, Switzerland and New Jersey in the United States. In 2009, Omar together with his business partner Suleiman A. Dualeh entered an agreement with \"Shelter Afrique\" that will see their corporation \"Integrated Property Investments Ltd\" take on an ambitious housing project worth $624 million USD in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania known as the \"Bahari Beach satellite town\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47108412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47108412", "title": "Patima Jeerapaet", "text": "Patima Jeerapaet\n\nPatima Jeerapaet ()\n\nPatima Jeerapaet (born March 15, 1967) is the son of Premsak and Pathama Jeerapaet.\n\nPatima Jeerapaet graduated his primary and secondary from Saint Gabriel's College. He earned his bachelor's degree in Business Administration (BBA) and master's degree in Business Administration (MBA) from Assumption University (Thailand). In 2009, he received a Doctorate of Philosophy in Management and Organization Development (Phd. OD) from Assumption University (Thailand).\n\nHe also attended several Top Executive Programs from well-known institutions in Thailand such as Certificate in Directors Certification Program DCP 66/2005 from Thai Institute of Directors, Financial Institutions Governance Program (FGP) 7/2013 from Thai Institute of Directors, Top Executives Program (CMA 13) of the Capital Market Academy, an institution of the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET), Top Executive Program in Commerce and Trade (TEPCoT 6) from Commerce Academy, Top Executive of Urban Development Program (Mahanakorn 2) from Urban Green Development Institute Bangkok and Top Executive Program for Industrial Development and Investment (IBID 1) from Institute of Business and Industrial Development.\n\nPatima Jeerapaet is the Assistant to Chairman of Phyathai Hospital Group, Paolo Memorial Hospital Group and CTH Public Company Limited. He was the Vice Chairman of PB Partners.\n\nHe spent much of his early career in the real estate business including Managing Director of C.I.T. Property Consultants Co., Ltd. or Colliers International Thailand, until he served as the President of Thailand Automotive Institute (TAI) in 2012, working to reach the objective of being one of the top ten highest automotive manufacturers in the world, to expand its testing centre, proving ground, and etc. He was the brain behind the success of The Thailand Automotive Institute's five-year master plan for 2012-2016.\n\nIn 2013, he was appointed Director General of the Office of the Small and Medium Enterprises Promotion (OSMEP), Director and Secretary of Board of Executive Directors at the Office of Small and Medium Enterprises Promotion, Director and Secretary of Board of Director at the National Board of Small and Medium Enterprises Promotion, and Director of Board of Directors at Small and Medium Enterprise Development Bank of Thailand (SME Bank) (2013-2014). He was also one of Working Committee on Initial Proposal Consideration of Eco Car 2 Project.\n\n\nPatima Jeerapaet holds a position as board member in CTH International Co., Ltd, WTH Group Co., Ltd., WTH Holding Co., Ltd. and Solution Power Networks Co., Ltd. He also serves as advisor to the Board of Executive Directors of Grande Asset Hotel and Property Public Co., Ltd.\n\nHe is the current Advisor of Subcommittee Industry Reform by National Reform Council and the current Advisor to President of The Engineering Institute of Thailand under H.M. The King’s Patronage.\n\nHe began his political career as the Advisor to Minister of the Prime Minister’s Office in 2012. From 2012 – 2013 he served as the Advisor to Committee on Monetary, Finance, Banking and Financial Institutions, the Senate of Kingdom of Thailand and the Advisor of International Trade and Investment at Thailand Trade Representative in 2013.\n\nIn 2011 Patima was announced as the first Thai Chairman of RICS Thailand (Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Thailand).\n\nBesides being an investor, Patima also played role in Education. He was a special lecturer at Ramkhamhaeng University for 18 years and a special lecturer in Sport Facility Management to Doctoral Degree students Kasetsart University. Moreover, he was the Founder of the Department of Real Estate Management, Faculty of Risk Management and Industrial Services at Assumption University.\n\nDuring his time as the President of Thailand Automotive Institute (TAI), he headed up several successful project including: the Automotive Industry Master Plan 2012-2016 and Study and Analysis of setting up the Automotive Testing and R&D Center.\n\nWith moreover than 20 years of experience in the real estate business, Patima had managed a multitude of successful projects. On behalf of The Joint Foreign Chamber of Commerce (JFCCT Property Committee) from 2009 – 2010, he compiled and submitted a white paper for leasehold extension to the Thai Trade Representative office.\n\nHe took a recreational interest in Music, and served as Executive Producer of a song project in contribution to His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej’s 60th Anniversary ascension to the throne. He was also the Charity Car Rally organizer for the achievement of His Majesty’s Cup. All proceeds were contributed to the Chaiyapat Association for charity in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "53890421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53890421", "title": "Phons O'Mara", "text": "Phons O'Mara\n\nAlphonsus M. (\"Phons\") O'Mara (13 October 1887 – 16 February 1958) was a businessman and Irish republican Mayor of Limerick 1918-20. O'Mara was a son of Stephen O'Mara, Snr, himself a former Mayor of Limerick and briefly an Irish Parliamentary Party MP. Phons O'Mara was the brother of another Mayor, Stephen M. O'Mara. In 1918 he stripped Windham Wyndham-Quin, 4th Earl of Dunraven and Mount-Earl of the freedom of the City because of Dunraven's support for conscription. In 1919 he helped negotiate the end of the Limerick Soviet. His business activity related to the family bacon business, and he became owner of Donnolly's bacon factory.\n"}
{"id": "51314496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51314496", "title": "Privileged trader", "text": "Privileged trader\n\nA privileged trader (, literally 'peninsular king', also known as a \"væreiere\" 'community owner') is a term that was used for fish merchants or landowners that enjoyed special privileges along the coast of Northern Norway from the second half of the 1700s onward. The term \"nessekonge\" itself goes back centuries earlier, to the Viking era, referring to local chieftains that held power over a peninsula. Their privileged status refers to their having received special permission from the king to engage in trade. There are believed to have been 200 to 300 privileged traders' centers or fishing villages from Brønnøysund in the south to Vardø in the north. The privileged traders experienced their peak from the second half of the 1800s to 1910. After this, the development of fishing fleets and public transport by steamship made fishermen less dependent on the local fish buyers, and catches could then be traded wherever the best profit was to be had.\n\nThe privileged traders enjoyed a dominant economic, social, and political position in the local milieu. They controlled the local trade, fresh fish purchases, and fish processing, and they often owned the local estate. They sought to supply the locals with all the goods they needed from elsewhere, and this sales monopoly resulted in no room for competition. They covered needs ranging from food and fuel to boats and finished log houses. Often the sale of goods and purchases of fish happened at the same time, so that trade was more of a barter and the privileged trader profited from both the purchase and sale. Because there was little money in circulation, not only these exchanges were kept in written account books, but also the residents' other expenditures were recorded in the books maintained by the privileged trader; for example, taxes or costs of medical treatment. Fishermen’s dole-fish (the share of the catch they were entitled to) was also often handled by the privileged trader, and so he acted as a bank in many ways. This also applied to loans—both for working capital for fishing, as well as consumer loans for houses and land, equipment, and boats. There was often little chance of the debt being paid off. The privileged traders secured the debts by having the borrowers pledge their property as security. If the people could not repay their debt, this could lead to foreclosure or forced sale and the loss of their boats, houses, or other property, which was their source of livelihood. Practice varied on how the debt was enforced; some allowed the old owners to remain on the farm as tenants, whereas others evicted them and brought in new residents. Often the privileged traders had not only a trade monopoly, but also political power, such as mayor or other offices, which often undermined the municipal system.\n\nThe best-known privileged trader was Erasmus Zahl of Kjerringøy, who was the model for Knut Hamsun's character Mack in his novels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58131378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58131378", "title": "Reginald Mengi", "text": "Reginald Mengi\n\nReginald Abraham Mengi is a Tanzanian billionaire businessperson, author of the book \"I Can, I Must, I Will\", and a philanthropist. He is the Chairman of Confederation of Tanzania Industries, IPP Gold Ltd., Media Owners Association of Tanzania, Executive Chairman & Owner at IPP Ltd. (Tanzania) and Chairman of Handeni Gold, Inc. Mengi has an estimated net worth of US $560 million as per forbes richest people in Africa 2014.\n\nMengi has received the following awards:-\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171998", "title": "Repartimiento", "text": "Repartimiento\n\nThe Repartimiento () (Spanish, \"distribution, partition, or division\") was a colonial forced labor system imposed upon the indigenous population of Spanish America and the Philippines. In concept it was similar to other tribute-labor systems, such as the \"mita\" of the Inca Empire or the corvée of Ancien Régime France: the natives were forced to do low-paid or unpaid labor for a certain number of weeks or months each year on Spanish-owned farms, mines, workshops (\"obrajes\"), and public projects. With the New Laws of 1542, the \"repartimiento\" was instated to substitute the \"encomienda\" system that had come to be seen as abusive and promoting unethical behavior. The \"repartimiento\" was not slavery, in that the worker is not owned outright—being free in various respects other than in the dispensation of his or her labor—and the work was intermittent. It however, created slavery-like conditions in certain areas, most notoriously in silver mines of 16th century Peru. In the first decades of the colonization of the Caribbean the word was used for the institution that became the \"encomienda\", which can cause confusion. It was a way for people to pay tribute by doing laborious jobs for the mother country. \n\nThe \"repartimiento\", for the most part, replaced the \"encomienda\" throughout the Viceroyalty of New Spain by the beginning of the 17th century. In Peru \"encomiendas\" lasted longer, and the Quechua word \"mita\" frequently was used for \"repartimiento\". There were instances when both systems (\"repartimiento\" and \"encomienda\") coexisted.\n\nIn practice, a conquistador, or later a Spanish settler or official, would be given and supervised a number of indigenous workers, who would labor in farms or mines, or in the case of the Philippines might also be assigned to the ship yards constructing the Manila galleons. The one in charge of doing the \"reparto\" (\"distribution\") of workers was the \"Alcalde Mayor\" (local magistrate) of the city. Native communities that were close to Spanish populations were required to provide a percentage of their people (2-4%) to work in agriculture, construction of houses, streets, etc. The diminution of the number of natives in the Americas due to European diseases (smallpox, influenza, measles and typhus) to which the native populations had no resistance, as well as to desertion from the work fields, led to the substitution of the \"encomienda\" system and the creation of privately owned farms and haciendas. Many native people escaped the \"encomienda\" and \"repartimiento\" by leaving their communities. Some looked for wage labor; others signed contracts (\"asientos\") for six months to a year, during which time the worker was required to be paid a salary (something the Spanish Crown did not enforce or support), and provided living quarters as well as religious services. There were many cases in which both wage and \"repartimiento\" laborers worked side-by-side on farms, mines, \"obrajes\" or haciendas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35901907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35901907", "title": "Roopak Saluja", "text": "Roopak Saluja\n\nRoopak Saluja (born 25 July 1975) is an Indian media businessman and angel investor. He is the founder and chief executive officer of The 120 Media Collective - a communications & content group comprising subsidiaries, Jack in the Box Worldwide, Sniper and Bang Bang Films; and Sooperfly - A new media company that is building content brands direct-to-audiences. He has been featured in Campaign India's A-List of the Most Influential People in India's Advertising, Media & Marketing Industry 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013.\n\nSaluja was born on 25 July 1975, to a Punjabi father and a Nepalese mother. He did his schooling at the Doon School in Dehradun and studied at INSEAD in France and Singapore.\n\nHe started his advertising career at 23, in account management at Young & Rubicam Budapest. After that he moved to Ogilvy & Mather Paris to work for Motorola Europe, Middle East and Africa. He quit Ogilvy in 2003 to go to business school at INSEAD.\n\nIn mid-2006, after graduating with an MBA from INSEAD, he set up a company called Bang Bang Films. Bang Bang Films was ranked #2 on AllWorld Network's Top 25 fastest growing companies, across all sectors, in India in 2010.\n\nIn July 2013, Bang Bang Films and director Jim Sonzero created a joint venture primarily focused on beauty, lifestyle and storytelling. It first project was a L’Oreal Fall Repair campaign with Bollywood actor Sonam Kapoor, and the company shot another spot for L’Oreal starring Aishwarya Rai.\n\nBang Bang Films was ranked among the Top 5 Production Houses in India by advertising agency professionals in The Economic Times supplement, Brand Equity's Agency Reckoner 2014 list.\n\nJack in the Box Worldwide was set up in 2009 as the content-for-brands arm of Bang Bang Films. It combines content strategy, film, video production and digital media to create customized content for brands across multiple platforms and geographies. It has offices in Mumbai and Delhi.\n\nRoopak is a member of the Indian Angel Network, a group of entrepreneurs who invest in start-up businesses across a variety of sectors and markets. In 2011, \"CNNGo\" listed him among 20 people to watch out for in Mumbai.\n\nIn 2014, Roopak was featured on Campaign Asia-Pacific's \"40 Under 40\" list among the region's strategic thinkers, suits, creators and planners.\n\nHe is a professional trance DJ, and has performed in Europe, South Africa and Thailand, and co-founding and running his own trance label, Procyon Records (Budapest and Paris). He has also acted in \"Marigold\".\n\nHe married actress Tara Sharma in November 2007. They have two children together, sons born in 2009 and 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "8649042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8649042", "title": "Rose Blumkin", "text": "Rose Blumkin\n\nRose Blumkin (December 3, 1893-August 9, 1998) was the founder of Nebraska Furniture Mart who sold the business to Warren Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway. \n\nBlumkin was born to a Jewish family as Rose Gorelick in Schidrin near Minsk, Belarus where her father was a rabbi and her mother ran a grocery store. When she was twenty, Rose married Isadore Blumkin. Blumkin immigrated to the United States in 1917 and Omaha, Nebraska in 1919 where she started a used clothing store and then opened the Nebraska Furniture Mart in 1937 originally selling used furniture.\n\nBlumkin grew that business to become the largest indoor furniture store in America and eventually sold 90% of the business to Buffett in 1983 for $60 million. Blumkin later opened another store and started competing with Buffett with \"Mrs. B's Clearance and Factory Outlet across the street from the Furniture Mart\" until Buffett acquired that company as well with a non-competition clause. Blumkin continued to be involved in day-to-day operations until shortly before her death at the age of 104.\n\nBlumkin was also an active philanthropist and namesake of the Rose Blumkin Performing Arts Center, and large donor to the Omaha Jewish Community Center. She received honorary degrees from New York University and Creighton University. Blumkin was buried in the Golden Hill Jewish Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16909251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16909251", "title": "Say on pay", "text": "Say on pay\n\nSay on pay is a term used for a role in corporate law whereby a firm's shareholders have the right to vote on the remuneration of executives.\n\nOften described in corporate governance or management theory as an agency problem, a corporation's managers are likely to overpay themselves because, directly or indirectly, they are allowed to pay themselves as a matter of general management power. Directors are elected to a board that has a fiduciary duty to protect the interests of the corporation. In large listed companies, executive compensation will usually be determined by a compensation committee composed of board members. Proponents argue that “say on pay” reforms strengthen the relationship between the board of directors and shareholders, ensuring that board members fulfill their fiduciary duty. Critics of the policy believe that “say on pay” does not effectively or comprehensibly monitor compensation, and consider it to be reactionary policy rather than proactive policy, because it does not immediately affect the Board of Directors. Some argue it is counter-productive because it diminishes the authority of the Board of Directors. The effect of ‘say on pay’ measures can be binding or non-binding, depending on regulatory requirements or internal corporate policy as determined by proxy votes.\n\nOn the 3rd of March the Swiss voted by 69.7 per cent to ensure shareholders, pension funds and not banks, entirely control questions of executive pay. Shareholders must elect all members of a company's remuneration committee of all Swiss public listed companies. They further should receive annual votes on the identity of all members of the board of directors. The role that banks played in casting votes on other shareholders behalf has been abolished.\n\nThe Corporations Amendment (Improving Accountability on Director and Executive Remuneration) Act 2011 introduced in the Corporations Act 2001 new sections 250R(2), 250U-V, so that if at two consecutive meetings over 25% of shareholders vote against the directors’ remuneration package, the directors have to stand for election again in 90 days.\n\nOriginally UK company law set a default rule that the remuneration of directors was to be set, binding, by the company's general meeting, under Table A, article 54, attached to the Companies Act 1862. Over time more and more companies gave the right to directors, which is the position found in the Model Articles for companies today, that remuneration of the directors shall be determined by the directors.\n\nThe United Kingdom was the forerunner in mandating that shareholders be allowed a \"non-binding\", or advisory vote on pay. In the UK, section 439 of the Companies Act 2006 mandates a vote on director pay at the yearly accounts meeting. Directors are expected to have disclosed their remuneration package in a \"Remuneration Report\" (section 420). Failure to do this leads to fines.\n\nIn addition, UK law regulates more tightly a number of elements beyond basic director pay. Employee share schemes that directors have must be approved by ordinary resolution under the London Stock Exchange Listing Rule 9.4.1. Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, with which all listed companies must comply or explain why they do not, a binding vote on approval of long-term incentive plans is recommended. Under section 188 of the Companies Act 2006 a shareholder resolution is necessary to approve a director’s contract lasting more than a 2-year term (reduced from approval beyond a 5-year term under the old Companies Act 1985, section 319). Lastly, frivolous categories of compensation are limited under section 215, by prohibiting payments for loss of office (i.e. no golden parachutes), except, under section 220, in respect of damages for existing obligations and pensions.\n\nAlthough the say on pay provision in section 439 is not binding on the board, the message in UK law is influential, because company members have an unrestricted right to fire any director, with reasonable notice, under section 168. The debate, however, moved on to whether the vote should become binding. Changes were introduced in the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 section 79 to make the overall policy of pay be capable of being rejected by shareholders, but that no specific right to determine the amount has yet been introduced.\n\nIn the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act §951, a new say on pay provision was introduced. \n\nThere had been several recent efforts to require Say on Pay resolutions in the United States. In 2007, the Chairman of the Financial Services Committee Rep. Barney Frank sponsored legislation that was passed by the House of Representatives, giving shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation. Then Senator Barack Obama authored a \"Say on Pay\" proposal, but his legislation stalled in the Senate. \n\nThe economic crisis has affected corporate governance in the United States of America. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), which established the Troubled Asset Relief Program, required say on pay resolutions at companies with outstanding funds from the TARP. In the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Senator Chris Dodd amended Section 111 of the EESA, and updated policy on Executive Compensation in Section 7. The amended legislation continued the \"Say on Pay\" policy established originally in the EESA.\n\nOn February 4, 2009, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner stated that companies that have received exceptional financial recovery assistance from the TARP fund would have to subject executive compensation to \"Say on Pay\" resolutions. On June 10, 2009, Secretary Geithner stated that the Administration supports \"Say on Pay\" legislation, and it would authorize the SEC authority to implement \"Say on Pay\" regulations at all companies, not only those that have outstanding funds from the TARP, contingent on Congressional approval. Additionally, the Treasury reconciled its proposals from February 4 with Congressional amendments to the EESA in the Final Interim Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance.\n\nOn July 31, 2009, H.R. 3269, the \"Corporate and Financial Institution Compensation Fairness Act of 2009\" passed the House of Representatives. The House bill included a section that allowed for a 'say on pay' for all public institutions in the United States. Additionally, it had a provision for a shareholder vote on golden parachutes. In the Senate, Senator Charles Schumer had introduced the Shareholder Bill of Rights. The House and Senate bills were reconciled in a final bill that was signed by President Obama on July 21, 2010 called The Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.\n\nIn 2012, only 2.6% of companies which voted on say on pay measures failed to pass them.\n\nThe European Union has remained tentative about harmonising rules on CEO pay. In the High Level Group of Company Law Experts' \"Final Report\" in 2002, they stated they would not wish to impose a requirement for voting EU wide, yet.\n\n\"Some Member States require, or are considering requiring, a form of mandatory or advisory vote by \nshareholders on the remuneration policy. We do not believe a shareholder vote on the remuneration policy generally should be an \nEU requirement, as the effects of such a vote can be different from Member State to Member State. The important thing is that \nshareholders annually have the opportunity to debate the policy with the board.\n\nHowever, a different approach is taken to share schemes, which were recommended to be more closely scrutinised.\n\nThe Coalition Government of Germany has recently passed reforming legislation to the Stock Corporation Act to introduce a non-binding say on pay.\n\nIncidents at large UK companies in which shareholders have \"revolted\" against the size of pay awards given to board members, since the \"say on pay\" legislation was introduced.\n\n\nIn the first year of mandatory shareholder advisory \"say on pay\" voting in the US, 37 Russell 3000 companies failed to receive majority support from shareholders. In the second year of voting, 44 Russell 3000 companies have failed as of June 12, 2012. Companies include:\n\n\nBrian Cheffins of Cambridge University and Randall Thomas of Vanderbilt University predicted that a 'say on pay' could hold back sudden jumps, but it would not stop the general upward drift in pay rates. Ryan Krause and colleagues argued that 'say on pay' offered little information to the board of directors beyond disapproval of CEO compensation not being in line with firm performance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6439964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6439964", "title": "Ski Resort Tycoon", "text": "Ski Resort Tycoon\n\nSki Resort Tycoon is a business simulation game in which the player must successfully create and run a ski resort. The player is able to add a variety of structures including skilifts, lodges, bathrooms, warming huts and various accommodations. The goal is to become a 5 star resort. The game has a 3D mode where the player can view their resort. A Yeti can also be seen in the game, and it can be found eating the guests.\n"}
{"id": "21454871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21454871", "title": "Standard Oil Building (Baltimore, Maryland)", "text": "Standard Oil Building (Baltimore, Maryland)\n\nStandard Oil Building, also known as the Stanbalt Building, is a historic office building located at Baltimore, Maryland, United States. It is a 15-story Beaux Arts skyscraper designed by Clyde N. Friz (1867-1942), one of Baltimore's best-known Beaux Arts designers, and built in 1922. The steel-frame \"U\"-shaped office building is clad in limestone. It was built by the Standard Oil Company at a time when that business was once one of the nation's principal corporations, the dominant supplier of gasoline and fuels.\n\nStandard Oil Building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2000. In its later years as an office building, the building primarily housed offices for the City of Baltimore. Following an extensive, $25 million renovation, the building reopened as residential apartments in 2002 by the Southern Management Corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "34660800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34660800", "title": "Tariq Krim", "text": "Tariq Krim\n\nTariq Krim (born October 25, 1972, in Paris) is a French serial entrepreneur, creator of Netvibes and currently the founder and CEO of Jolicloud, a personal cloud content computing platform and Joli OS, a free operating system based on the Jolicloud platform. In 2008, he was the first French national named by the \"MIT Technology Review\" as one of the top 35 innovators in the world under the age of 35. He was appointed Chevalier de l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres (Knight of the French Order of Arts and Letters) by the French Minister of Culture in 2011.\n\nTariq Krim spent his childhood in the historic area of Paris, Le Marais. His father was an economist and his mother a teacher. Passionate about computers from an early age (he was given his first computer at 10, and created his first Minitel server at 12 years old), Krim went on to study physics at the University of Paris VII and obtained his post-graduate degree from the Ecole Nationale Superieure des Telecommunications (ENST).\n\nIn 1994, after meeting with Jean-Francois Bizot, Krim became a writer for \"Novamag\" and wrote articles about cyberculture. He continued his career in journalism for the financial daily \"La Tribune\". First based in Paris, then in California (he opened the newspaper's Silicon Valley branch), Krim published numerous articles on the Internet industry, including a piece on digital music distribution two years before Napster was founded.\n\nIn 1999, when the internet was still in its infancy in France, Krim decided that he was done with writing about internet innovation and would just \"go and do it\". That year, he founded what would become L8Rmedia, a consulting and publishing company specializing in digital media. Its first branch was in San Francisco; he later expanded to Paris. Its main online publication, GenerationMP3 (formerly \"MPTrois.com\"), attracts 1.5 million readers per month. and pioneered the use of participatory journalism in France. It is now a leading publication on mp3 technology.\n\nIn 2005, Krim created Netvibes with Florent Frémont, a developer friend. The personalized dashboard publishing platform claims over 10 million users worldwide, half of whom are in the United States. \n\nIn 2008, Krim left as the head of the company to create Jolicloud in 2009, co-founded with Romain Huet, the company's CTO. Their vision is to combine cloud technology with a simple user interface. Krim first developed Joli OS, a free operating system, which enabled users to optimise low-cost devices or recycle older computers. In 2012, Jolicloud launched an HTML5-based cloud platform. Jolicloud is backed by $4.2 million in venture capital funding from Atomico Ventures, formed by Kazaa and Skype founders Niklas Zennström and Janus Friis, and Mangrove Capital Partners.\n\nIn 2008, Krim co-founded ISAI, \"the French tech entrepreneurs' fund\", which provides seed capital for web and mobile technology startups. ISAI's co-founders are all members of France's digerati: Orianne Garcia, founder of Terrafemina.com; Pierre Kosciusko-Morizet, founder of PriceMinister; Ouriel Ohayon, founder of TechCrunch France and AppsFire; Geoffroy Roux de Bézieux, CEO of Virgin Mobile; and Stéphane Treppoz, Chairman of the Executive Board of Sarenza. This combined effort has helped launch websites such as co-voiturage.fr and InstantLuxe.com. Krim has said that he has a \"passion for building highly disruptive new products\".\n\nAs one of the first French journalists equipped to write about online conundrums such as copyright infringement or music piracy piracy, Krim became an expert on the digital rights of authors. He advised Adami, a French civil society that allocates the rights of performers. In 2004 he published a study called \"Peer-to-Peer, an New Business Model for Music\", in which he cites another study by the French Directorate of Economic Forecasting and Analysis, which concluded that \"no systematic correlation can be made between downloading and the state of the music industry\".\n\nKrim is a speaker at global technology and media conferences and summits. He regularly appears on mainstream media, sometimes as an \"expert on the Internet\" but mostly as Netvibes' charismatic founder. He is currently acknowledged as one of Europe's industry experts on cloud computing and the future of the Internet. \n\nIn 2008, he was awarded the Information Technology for Business Creation Prize by Telecom ParisTech and its engineering association (AIST). Krim is one of six French personalities to have been selected as a Young Global Leader (YGL) by the World Economic Forum.\n\nKrim served on the Conseil national du numérique as a vice president from 2013 to 2016.\n"}
{"id": "175562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175562", "title": "The Joy of Work", "text": "The Joy of Work\n\nThe Joy of Work (1998) by Scott Adams is a two-part book. The first part offers recommendations as to how office workers can find happiness at their cubicle desks and the second part is a formula for creating humor, based on the author's experience penning the \"Dilbert\" comic strip.\n\nThe title is a comic reference to the 1972 sex manual \"The Joy of Sex\". The first part of the book explains \"how to find happiness at the expense of your co-workers\", including how to deal with superiors, meetings and co-workers and how to avoid work while having fun; an entire chapter is devoted to office pranks. The second part is an analysis of humor and how to write funny material. Adams writes, \"The third part of the book is made entirely out of invisible pages. If the book seems heavier than it looks, that's why.\"\n\nThe book includes a response to Norman Solomon, who attempted to depict Scott Adams as a proponent of downsizing in his 1997 book, \"The Trouble with Dilbert\". People who were offended by certain Dilbert strips are also addressed, with Adams concluding that it is the \"proximity\" of sensitive subjects to negative concepts that causes \"people who are angry for no good reason (nuts)\" to take offense.\n"}
{"id": "44368190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44368190", "title": "Thurmond and Lucy Chatham House", "text": "Thurmond and Lucy Chatham House\n\nThe Thurmond and Lucy Chatham House is a historic home located at Winston-Salem, Forsyth County, North Carolina. It was built in 1925, and is a Classical Revival style stuccoed dwelling consisting of a 2 1/2-story main block flanked by two-bay-wide projecting hip-roofed sections. It has a tall hip roof and bluestone terrace that fills the rear courtyard of the \"H\"-shaped plan. The house encompasses 9,065-square-feet of living space. Also on the property is a contributing 1 1/2-story garage / apartment. It was built for Congressman and businessman Richard Thurmond Chatham (1896–1957), who also served as president of the Chatham Manufacturing Company and his wife, Lucy Hodgin Hanes.\n\nIt was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "33031953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33031953", "title": "Ushijima the Loan Shark", "text": "Ushijima the Loan Shark\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3100626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3100626", "title": "Visible balance", "text": "Visible balance\n\n\"Cedric Vute\"\n\nThe visible trade balance is that part of the balance of trade figures that refers to international trade in physical goods, but not trade in services; it thus contrasts with the invisible balance.\n\nMost countries do not have a zero visible balance: they usually run a surplus or a deficit. This will be offset by trade in services, other income transfers, investments and monetary flows, leading to an overall balance of payments. The visible balance is affected by changes in the volumes of imports and exports, and also by changes in the terms of trade.\n\nIn aggregate, the World often appears to have a negative visible balance with itself; i.e. imports of goods appear to exceed exports. There are numerous causes for this, such as measuring imports on a cost, insurance and freight basis while measuring exports on a free on board basis, or statistical errors occurring when imports are more closely recorded than exports.\n"}
{"id": "26555474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26555474", "title": "Workplace strategy", "text": "Workplace strategy\n\nWorkplace Strategy is the dynamic alignment of an organization’s work patterns with the work environment to enable peak performance and reduce costs.\n\nThe role of the person charged with developing the strategy, the 'workplace strategist', is to understand the organisation's requirements and recommend a workplace solution that will help them meet their current and future needs. The workplace strategy may facilitate meeting business objectives such as: reducing property costs, improving business performance, merging two or more organisations/cultures, and relocating or consolidating occupied buildings. In more simple terms, the workplace strategy provides a response to either running out of space, having too much space, or wanting to introduce organisational change. The workplace strategy and its implementation quite often occur at an opportune moment such as a property lease break or a company merger or acquisition.\n\nThe proposed workplace strategy will focus on how to use the space more efficiently and effectively. Recommendations often include moving from cellular (predominantly private office) environments to open plan, or introducing new ways of working and moving to a flexible, activity-based or agile working environment, as first proposed by Frank Duffy and Veldhoen + Company in nineties. Flexible working is where the occupants have access to a range of work settings, including working at home or on the move, but also share workstations, often referred to as hot desking or the related Hoteling.\n\nEasy to follow reviews of how to develop a workplace strategy are provided by Eley and Marmot and Springer.\n\nWorkplace strategies tend to be developed by specialist workplace consultants or the service may provided from within an architectural practice. Savage notes that: \"The successful implementation of a workplace strategy requires an interdisciplinary team, internal and external to the organization ... A workplace consultant may be retained to engage the team, help define success criteria, manage the process, and assess results.\" \nExternal workplace consultants are professionals from a number of backgrounds: business management, interior design and architecture, building surveying, real estate and facilities management, human resources and building research. The Workplace Consulting Organization (WCO) is the professional body for consultants offering workplace strategy services.\n\nResearch is currently under way by the General Services Administration to test the impact of workplace strategies, design and new technologies on business performance.\n\nThe National Centre for Partnership and Performance in the Republic of Ireland has established a \"National Workplace Strategy\" defined as: \n\"the Government's blueprint to help transform Ireland's workplaces into Workplaces of the Future, by promoting greater levels of partnership-led change and innovation in our places of work, regardless of size or sector. As Ireland continues its economic and social transition to a knowledge-based economy and society, the Strategy’s underlying premise is that all companies and organisations can achieve improved performance and an enhanced Quality of working life by improving their capacity to manage change and innovation within the workplace.\"\n\n"}
