{"id": "11522707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11522707", "title": "2007 tuberculosis scare", "text": "2007 tuberculosis scare\n\nThe 2007 tuberculosis scare occurred when Atlanta personal-injury lawyer Andrew \"Drew\" Speaker flew from Atlanta, Georgia to Paris, France and on to Greece and then Italy before returning on a flight from Prague, Czech Republic to Montreal, Canada, where he crossed over the border and back into the United States while infected with multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention believed at the time that Speaker was suffering from extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB). The incident sparked a debate in Congress on the failure of federal customs agents to stop him. Upon Speaker's return to the United States, the CDC placed him under involuntary isolation (similar to quarantine) using a provision of the Public Health Service Act. With this action, Speaker became the first individual subjected to a CDC isolation order since 1963.\n\nIn January 2007, Speaker suffered a fall and went to the doctor, concerned that he had bruised a rib. Doctors X-rayed his chest and found an abnormality that required further testing. Andrew Speaker was suspected of having TB when a positive PPD test came back on March 2, 2007. His third CT scan was done on March 3 and a bronchoscopy was done on March 8. After 18 days of incubation the isolate was sent to CDC for confirmation of his susceptibility results that were done by the Georgia Department of Human Resources (DHR).\n\nOn March 28, 2007 his doctors and the health department believed the TB strain Speaker had was a resistant one and communicated this to the CDC. On May 1 the apparent MDR TB infection was discussed with the CDC lab by his doctors and they discussed discontinuing the treatment he was on at that time. On May 9 the suspicion of MDR TB was confirmed. A meeting was held with Fulton County Health Officials, his doctors, his fiancée and his father and father-in-law on May 10, 2007. At this time he was told that he was not contagious and not a threat to anyone but that he would need to go to Denver for treatment. It would take a few weeks to arrange this. He was advised, or according to some accounts strongly recommended, not to travel.\n\nOn May 12, 2007, Speaker flew from the U.S. to Paris. On May 14, he flew on to Athens and, two days later, flew to the Aegean holiday island of Santorini for his wedding (Santorini's Mayor Angelos Roussos stated that Speaker lacked the necessary paperwork for the civil ceremony.). Speaker then flew to Rome for his honeymoon.\n\nDoctors say that only after Speaker left the United States did they realize he likely had XDR-TB. Speaker says that he was informed of MDR TB before leaving the country, and that while officials preferred him not to fly, they said that he was not a threat and was not required to wear a mask. Once Speaker was in Europe, however, test results showed his strain of tuberculosis was even rarer than originally thought, leading public health officials to try to persuade Speaker to turn himself in to Italian health authorities. The CDC informed him that there were no options for the CDC to get him home, and that he would have to arrange private transportation. Speaker instead flew by commercial jet to Prague and then on to Montréal. Both Speaker and his new wife claimed that, had they been offered transport, they would have accepted it and would have waited in Rome. Speaker has also said that the CDC told him they were going to send officials to put him in Italian quarantine for up to two years, and that he was not told special transportation was arranged.\n\nOnce in Montréal, Speaker rented a car and drove across the Canada–United States border. A Customs and Border Protection Officer failed to detain him at the frontier, disregarding a warning after he had passed Speaker's passport through the Treasury Enforcement Communications System (TECS) to hold the traveler, wear a protective mask when dealing with him, and call health authorities because he \"did not look sick\".\n\nAccording to the CDC, Speaker flew on the following flights:\n\nOn May 31, 2007, Speaker was moved from Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta to the National Jewish Medical and Research Center in Denver, Colorado, for further treatment.\n\nIt was reported that Speaker's father-in-law, Robert C. Cooksey, works for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and is a microbiologist who has conducted research on tuberculosis, according to his CDC biography posted on the agency's Web site.\n\nWearing a medical mask, Speaker was interviewed by Diane Sawyer on the June 1 edition of the American talk show \"Good Morning America\" on ABC and apologized to all passengers, explaining that he had not intended to endanger them.\n\nAccording to an interview on \"Larry King Live\", Speaker said that he had not been told that there was any risk of transmitting the disease to others, nor did the May 10 letter recommending against his travel state this, which Speaker in any case had not received before leaving May 14. His wife, with whom he lived for five months without precautions, remained uninfected.\n\nOn July 4, 2007 the National Jewish Medical and Research Center announced, and the CDC confirmed, that Mr. Speaker's earlier diagnosis was incorrect and that he instead had multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB), a more treatable form of tuberculosis.\n\nBefore a Congressional hearing, Speaker and his father played audio recordings from CDC and Fulton County health officials which say he was not a danger to others. He asked such questions on five recordings repeatedly and was given the same answers even after stating on two recordings that he was going out of the country and the CDC later admitted they were aware and waited until he had already left before taking further actions.\n\nSpeaker was in New York when the CDC served him with an isolation order but CDC director Julie Gerberding stated that the government was legally constrained prior to that order. The federal statute granting quarantine authority allows isolation or quarantine but only for individuals coming into the country from a foreign country or territory.\n\nGeorgia TB law may have required Speaker to be confined for two weeks and only allowed travel for medical appointments. A court confinement order can isolate a patient only after the infected patient ignores medical advice. This method can be overridden by a declaration of public health emergency by the governor of Georgia.\n\nIn 2007, seven Canadians and two Czechs sued Speaker in Montreal Superior Court; eight of the plaintiffs were on the same flight as Andrew Speaker and one was related to one of the passengers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22460767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22460767", "title": "Ancient City of Damascus", "text": "Ancient City of Damascus\n\nThe Ancient City of Damascus is the historic city centre of Damascus, Syria. The old city which is one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in the world, contains numerous archaeological sites, including some historical churches and mosques. Many cultures have left their mark, especially Hellenistic, Roman, Byzantine and Islamic. In 1979, the historical center of the city, surrounded by walls of Roman era, was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. In June 2013, UNESCO included all Syrian sites on the list of World Heritage in Danger to warn of the risks to which they are exposed because of the Syrian Civil War.\n\nLying on the south bank of Barada River, the ancient city was founded in the 3rd millennium B.C. The horizontal diameter of the oval is about 1.5 km (0.9 mi) which is known as Damascus Straight Street, while the vertical diameter () is about 1 km (0.6 mi). With an approximate area of 86.12 hectares (212.8 acres; 0.86 km2), the ancient city was enclosed within a historic wall of 4.5 km (2.8 mi) in circuit that was mainly built by the Romans, then fortified by the Ayyubids and Mamluks.\n\nThe first mentioning of Damascus was as \"Ta-ms-qu\" in the second millennium BC, it was situated in an Amorite region in the middle of a conflict zone between the Hittites and Egyptians. The city exercised tributary until the emergence of the Sea Peoples in 1200 BC whose raids helped in weakening the arch rivals. Consequently, the Semitic Arameans managed to establish the independent state of Aram-Damascus (11th century – 733 BC), naming the main city as ‘Dimashqu’ or ‘Darmeseq’.\n\nThroughout its history, Damascus has been part of the following states:\n\nDamascus has a wealth of historical sites dating back to many different periods of the city's history. Since the city has been built up with every passing occupation, it has become almost impossible to excavate all the ruins of Damascus that lie up to below the modern level. The Citadel of Damascus is located in the northwest corner of the Old City. The \"Damascus Straight Street\" (referred to in the conversion of St. Paul in Acts 9:11), also known as the \"Via Recta\", was the decumanus (east–west main street) of Roman Damascus, and extended for over . Today, it consists of the street of Bab Sharqi and the Souk Medhat Pasha, a covered market. The Bab Sharqi street is filled with small shops and leads to the old Christian quarter of Bab Tuma (St. Thomas's Gate). Medhat Pasha Souq is also a main market in Damascus and was named after Midhat Pasha, the Ottoman governor of Syria who renovated the Souk. At the end of the Bab Sharqi street, one reaches the House of Ananias, an underground chapel that was the cellar of Ananias's house. The Umayyad Mosque, also known as the Grand Mosque of Damascus, is one of the largest mosques in the world and also one of the oldest sites of continuous prayer since the rise of Islam. A shrine in the mosque is said to contain the body of St. John the Baptist. The mausoleum where Saladin was buried is located in the gardens just outside the mosque. Sayyidah Ruqayya Mosque, the shrine of the youngest daughter of Husayn ibn Ali, can also be found near the Umayyad Mosque. The ancient district of Amara is also within a walking distance from these sites. Another heavily visited site is Sayyidah Zaynab Mosque, where the tomb of Zaynab bint Ali is located.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe old part of the city is surrounded with 4.5-kilometre-long (2.8-mile) thick walls, pierced by the seven historical gates, the eighth gate was added later by Muslims. These are, clockwise from the north-east side:\n\nThe presence of public baths (ḥammāms) in Damascus started during the Umayyad era, while some historians date them back to the Roman era. The Damascene baths were mentioned by a number of Damascus historians, such as Ibn 'Asakir (1106–1175 AD) in his famous book \"The History of Damascus\". In his book, Ibn 'Asakir named 77 of baths working at that time within the city. The historian Ibn Shaddad counted 114 baths located in Damascus in 1250 AD.\n\nThe number of these baths increased to 365 during the Ottoman era, then decreased drastically to reached 60 baths in the late nineteenth century AD. Today, however, the number of baths in full operation is barely 20, the most famous of them is the \"Nour al-Din al-Shahid\" bath in the Al-Buzuriyah Souq.\n\n\nDue to the rapid decline of the population of Old Damascus (between 1995 and 2009 about 30,000 people moved out of the old city for more modern accommodation), a growing number of buildings are being abandoned or are falling into disrepair. In March 2007, the local government announced that it would be demolishing Old City buildings along a stretch of rampart walls as part of a redevelopment scheme. These factors resulted in the Old City being placed by the World Monuments Fund on its 2008 Watch List of the 100 Most Endangered Sites in the world. It is hoped that its inclusion on the list will draw more public awareness to these significant threats to the future of the historic Old City of Damascus.\n\nIn spite of the recommendations of the UNESCO World Heritage Center:\n\nIn October 2010, Global Heritage Fund named Damascus one of 12 cultural heritage sites most \"on the verge\" of irreparable loss and destruction.\n\n"}
{"id": "1869575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1869575", "title": "Apache tears", "text": "Apache tears\n\n\"Apache tears\" is the popular term for rounded pebbles of obsidian or \"obsidianites\" composed of black or dark-colored natural volcanic glass, usually of rhyolite composition and bearing conchoidal fracture. Also known by the lithologic term \"marekanite\", this variety of obsidian occurs as subrounded to subangular bodies up to about 2 inches in diameter, often bearing indented surfaces. Internally the pebbles sometimes contain fine bands or microlites and though in reflected light they appear black and opaque, they may be translucent in transmitted light. Apache tears fall between 5 and 5.5 in hardness on the Mohs scale.\n\nApache tears originate from siliceous lava flows, lava domes or ash-flow tuffs, often in close association with or embedded in, gray perlite. The spherules occur as cores within perlite masses that typically exhibit texture of concentrically curved, onion-skin fractures. Formation is apparently related to differential cooling and various alkali and water contents. Excessive water present during cooling and quenching of rhyolitic lava causes obsidian to hydrate (i.e., water entering the obsidian glass converts it to perlite). Where perlite is incompletely hydrated, fresh obsidian cores remain as pebbles of marekanite or Apache tears; this origin has been occasionally described in the geologic literature (for example,).\n\nApache tears are well known from Tertiary volcanic terrain in numerous localities throughout the western United States, particularly Arizona, from where specimens were widely collected and sold in the lapidary and specimen trade. Several districts in western Nevada also have yielded abundant Apache tears eroding from tuff beds; such areas have been popularized in the lapidary trade through guides for rockhounds. Specimens from many of these sites have been avidly collected by rockhounds and lapidary enthusiasts, are often tumbled and may be considered semi-precious gemstones; locations are noted in the section \"Gemstones of Nevada\" by Rose & Ferdock.\n\nThe name \"Apache tear\" comes from a legend of the Apache tribe: about 75 Apaches and the US Cavalry fought on a mountain overlooking what is now Superior, Arizona in the 1870s. Facing defeat, the outnumbered Apache warriors rode their horses off the mountain to their deaths rather than be killed. The wives and families of the warriors cried when they heard of the tragedy; their tears turned into stone upon hitting the ground.\n\nAmerican singer songwriter Johnny Cash wrote a song entitled \"Apache Tears\" for his 1964 album \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18949289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949289", "title": "Augustus De Morgan", "text": "Augustus De Morgan\n\nAugustus De Morgan (27 June 1806 – 18 March 1871) was a British mathematician and logician. He formulated De Morgan's laws and introduced the term mathematical induction, making its idea rigorous.\n\nAugustus De Morgan was born in Madurai, India in 1806. His father was Lieut.-Colonel John De Morgan (1772–1816), who held various appointments in the service of the East India Company. His mother, Elizabeth Dodson (1776–1856), was a descendant of James Dodson, who computed a table of anti-logarithms, that is, the numbers corresponding to exact logarithms. Augustus De Morgan became blind in one eye a month or two after he was born. The family moved to England when Augustus was seven months old. As his father and grandfather had both been born in India, De Morgan used to say that he was neither English, nor Scottish, nor Irish, but a Briton \"unattached\", using the technical term applied to an undergraduate of Oxford or Cambridge who is not a member of any one of the Colleges.\n\nWhen De Morgan was ten years old his father died. Mrs De Morgan resided at various places in the southwest of England, and her son received his elementary education at various schools of no great account. His mathematical talents went unnoticed until he was fourteen, when a family-friend discovered him making an elaborate drawing of a figure in Euclid with ruler and compasses. She explained the aim of Euclid to Augustus, and gave him an initiation into demonstration.\n\nHe received his secondary education from Mr Parsons, a fellow of Oriel College, Oxford, who appreciated classics better than mathematics. His mother was an active and ardent member of the Church of England, and desired that her son should become a clergyman, but by this time De Morgan had begun to show his non-conforming disposition. He became an atheist.\nIn 1823, at the age of sixteen, he entered Trinity College, Cambridge, where he came under the influence of George Peacock and William Whewell, who became his lifelong friends; from the former he derived an interest in the renovation of algebra, and from the latter an interest in the renovation of logic—the two subjects of his future life work. His college tutor was John Philips Higman, FRS (1793–1855).\n\nAt college he played the flute for recreation and was prominent in the musical clubs. His love of knowledge for its own sake interfered with training for the great mathematical race; as a consequence he came out fourth wrangler. This entitled him to the degree of Bachelor of Arts; but to take the higher degree of Master of Arts and thereby become eligible for a fellowship it was then necessary to pass a theological test. To the signing of any such test De Morgan felt a strong objection, although he had been brought up in the Church of England. In about 1875 theological tests for academic degrees were abolished in the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge.\n\nAs no career was open to him at his own university, he decided to go to the Bar, and took up residence in London; but he much preferred teaching mathematics to reading law. About this time the movement for founding London University (now University College London) took shape. The two ancient universities of Oxford and Cambridge were so guarded by theological tests that no Jew or Dissenter outside the Church of England could enter as a student, still less be appointed to any office. A body of liberal-minded men resolved to meet the difficulty by establishing in London a University on the principle of religious neutrality. De Morgan, then 22 years of age, was appointed professor of mathematics. His introductory lecture \"On the study of mathematics\" is a discourse upon mental education of permanent value, and has been recently reprinted in the United States.\n\nThe London University was a new institution, and the relations of the Council of management, the Senate of professors and the body of students were not well defined. A dispute arose between the professor of anatomy and his students, and in consequence of the action taken by the Council, several professors resigned, headed by De Morgan. Another professor of mathematics was appointed, who then drowned a few years later. De Morgan had shown himself a prince of teachers: he was invited to return to his chair, which thereafter became the continuous centre of his labours for thirty years.\n\nThe same body of reformers—headed by Lord Brougham, a Scotsman eminent both in science and politics who had instituted the London University—founded about the same time a Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. Its object was to spread scientific and other knowledge by means of cheap and clearly written treatises by the best writers of the time. One of its most voluminous and effective writers was De Morgan. He wrote a great work on \"The Differential and Integral Calculus\" which was published by the Society; and he wrote one-sixth of the articles in the \"Penny Cyclopedia\", published by the Society, and issued in penny numbers. When De Morgan came to reside in London he found a congenial friend in William Frend, notwithstanding his mathematical heresy about negative quantities. Both were arithmeticians and actuaries, and their religious views were somewhat similar. Frend lived in what was then a suburb of London, in a country-house formerly occupied by Daniel Defoe and Isaac Watts. De Morgan with his flute was a welcome visitor.\n\nThe London University of which De Morgan was a professor was a different institution from the University of London. The University of London was founded about ten years later by the Government for the purpose of granting degrees after examination, without any qualification as to residence. The London University was affiliated as a teaching college with the University of London, and its name was changed to University College. The University of London was not a success as an examining body; a teaching University was demanded. De Morgan was a highly successful teacher of mathematics. It was his plan to lecture for an hour, and at the close of each lecture to give out a number of problems and examples illustrative of the subject lectured on; his students were required to sit down to them and bring him the results, which he looked over and returned revised before the next lecture. In De Morgan's opinion, a thorough comprehension and mental assimilation of great principles far outweighed in importance any merely analytical dexterity in the application of half-understood principles to particular cases.\n\nDuring this period, he also promoted the work of the self-taught Indian mathematician Ramchundra, who has been called De Morgan's Ramanujan. He supervised the publication in London of Ramchundra's book \"Treatise on Problems of Maxima and Minima\" in 1859. In the introduction to this book, he acknowledged being aware of the Indian tradition of logic, although it is not known whether this had any influence on his own work.\n\nAugustus was one of seven children, four of whom survived to adulthood.\n\nIn the autumn of 1837, he married Sophia Elizabeth Frend (1809–1892), eldest daughter of William Frend (1757–1841) and Sarah Blackburne (1779–?), a granddaughter of Francis Blackburne (1705–1787), Archdeacon of Cleveland.\n\nDe Morgan had three sons and four daughters, including fairytale author Mary de Morgan. His eldest son was the potter William De Morgan. His second son George acquired distinction in mathematics at University College and the University of London. He and another like-minded alumnus conceived the idea of founding a mathematical society in London, where mathematical papers would be not only received (as by the Royal Society) but actually read and discussed. The first meeting was held in University College; De Morgan was the first president, his son the first secretary. It was the beginning of the London Mathematical Society.\n\nIn 1866 the chair of mental philosophy in University College fell vacant. James Martineau, a Unitarian clergyman and professor of mental philosophy, was recommended formally by the Senate to the Council; but in the Council there were some who objected to a Unitarian clergyman, and others who objected to theistic philosophy. A layman of the school of Bain and Spencer was appointed. De Morgan considered that the old standard of religious neutrality had been hauled down, and forthwith resigned. He was now 60 years of age. His pupils secured him a pension of £500 p.a., but misfortunes followed. Two years later his son George—the \"younger Bernoulli\", as Augustus loved to hear him called, in allusion to the eminent father-and-son mathematicians of that name—died. This blow was followed by the death of a daughter. Five years after his resignation from University College De Morgan died of nervous prostration on 18 March 1871.\n\nDe Morgan was a brilliant and witty writer, whether as a controversialist or as a correspondent. In his time there flourished two Sir William Hamiltons who have often been conflated. One was Sir William Hamilton, 9th Baronet (that is, his title was inherited), a Scotsman, professor of logic and metaphysics at the University of Edinburgh; the other was a knight (that is, won the title), an Irishman, professor at astronomy in the University of Dublin. The baronet contributed to logic, especially the doctrine of the quantification of the predicate; the knight, whose full name was William Rowan Hamilton, contributed to mathematics, especially geometric algebra, and first described the Quaternions. De Morgan was interested in the work of both, and corresponded with both; but the correspondence with the Scotsman ended in a public controversy, whereas that with the Irishman was marked by friendship and terminated only by death. In one of his letters to Rowan, De Morgan says,\n\nThe correspondence of De Morgan with Hamilton the mathematician extended over twenty-four years; it contains discussions not only of mathematical matters, but also of subjects of general interest. It is marked by geniality on the part of Hamilton and by wit on the part of De Morgan. The following is a specimen:\nHamilton wrote,\nDe Morgan replied,\n\nDe Morgan was full of personal peculiarities. On the occasion of the installation of his friend, Lord Brougham, as Rector of the University of Edinburgh, the Senate offered to confer on him the honorary degree of LL. D.; he declined the honour as a misnomer. He once printed his name: Augustus De Morgan, \"H – O – M – O – P – A – U – C – A – R – U – M – L – I – T – E – R – A – R – U – M\" (Latin for \"man of few letters\").\n\nHe disliked the provinces outside London, and while his family enjoyed the seaside, and men of science were having a good time at a meeting of the British Association in the country, he remained in the hot and dusty libraries of the metropolis. He said that he felt like Socrates, who declared that the farther he was from Athens the farther was he from happiness. He never sought to become a Fellow of the Royal Society, and he never attended a meeting of the Society; he said that he had no ideas or sympathies in common with the physical philosopher. His attitude was possibly due to his physical infirmity, which prevented him from being either an observer or an experimenter. He never voted at an election, and he never visited the House of Commons, the Tower of London or Westminster Abbey.\n\nWere the writings of De Morgan, such as his contributions to the Useful Knowledge Society, published in the form of collected works, they would form a small library Mainly through the efforts of Peacock and Whewell, a Philosophical Society had been inaugurated at Cambridge, and De Morgan contributed four memoirs to its transactions on the foundations of algebra, and an equal number on formal logic. The best presentation of his view of algebra is found in a volume, entitled \"Trigonometry and Double Algebra\", published in 1849; and his earlier view of formal logic is found in a volume published in 1847. His most distinctive work is styled \"A Budget of Paradoxes\"; it originally appeared as letters in the columns of the \"Athenæum\" journal; it was revised and extended by De Morgan in the last years of his life, and was published posthumously by his widow.\n\nGeorge Peacock's theory of algebra was much improved by D. F. Gregory, a younger member of the Cambridge School, who laid stress not on the permanence of equivalent forms, but on the permanence of certain formal laws. This new theory of algebra as the science of symbols and of their laws of combination was carried to its logical issue by De Morgan; and his doctrine on the subject is still followed by English algebraists in general. Thus George Chrystal founds his \"Textbook of Algebra\" on De Morgan's theory; although an attentive reader may remark that he practically abandons it when he takes up the subject of infinite series. De Morgan's theory is stated in his volume on \"Trigonometry and Double Algebra\", where in Book II, Chapter II, headed \"On symbolic algebra\", he writes:\n\nDe Morgan's work entitled \"Trigonometry and Double Algebra\" consists of two parts; the former of which is a treatise on trigonometry, and the latter a treatise on generalized algebra which he called \"double algebra\". The first stage in the development of algebra is \"arithmetic\", where only natural numbers and symbols of operations such as , , etc. are used. The next stage is \"universal arithmetic\", where letters appear instead of numbers, so as to denote numbers universally, and the processes are conducted without knowing the values of the symbols. Let and denote any natural numbers. An expression such as may still be impossible, so in universal arithmetic there is always a proviso, \"provided the operation is possible\". The third stage is \"single algebra\", where the symbol may denote a quantity forwards or a quantity backwards, and is adequately represented by segments on a straight line passing through an origin. Negative quantities are then no longer impossible; they are represented by the backward segment. But an impossibility still remains in the latter part of such an expression as which arises in the solution of the quadratic equation. The fourth stage is \"double algebra\". The algebraic symbol denotes in general a segment of a line in a given plane. It is a double symbol because it involves two specifications, namely, length, and direction; and is interpreted as denoting a quadrant. The expression then represents a line in the plane having an abscissa and an ordinate . Argand and Warren carried double algebra so far but they were unable to interpret on this theory such an expression as . De Morgan attempted it by \"reducing\" such an expression to the form , and he considered that he had shown that it could be always so reduced. The remarkable fact is that this double algebra satisfies all the fundamental laws above enumerated, and as every apparently impossible combination of symbols has been interpreted it looks like the complete form of algebra. In chapter 6 he introduced hyperbolic functions and discussed the connection of common and hyperbolic trigonometry.\n\nIf the above theory is true, the next stage of development ought to be \"triple\" algebra and if truly represents a line in a given plane, it ought to be possible to find a third term which added to the above would represent a line in space. Argand and some others guessed that it was although this contradicts the truth established by Euler that . De Morgan and many others worked hard at the problem, but nothing came of it until the problem was taken up by Hamilton. We now see the reason clearly: The symbol of double algebra denotes not a length and a direction; but a multiplier and \"an angle\". In it the angles are confined to one plane. Hence the next stage will be a \"quadruple algebra\", when the axis of the plane is made variable. And this gives the answer to the first question; double algebra is nothing but analytical plane trigonometry, and this is why it has been found to be the natural analysis for alternating currents. But De Morgan never got this far. He died with the belief that “double algebra must remain as the full development of the conceptions of arithmetic, so far as those symbols are concerned which arithmetic immediately suggests”.\n\nIn Book II, Chapter II, following the above quoted passage about the theory of symbolic algebra, De Morgan proceeds to give an inventory of the fundamental symbols of algebra, and also an inventory of the laws of algebra. The symbols are formula_12, formula_13, formula_1, formula_4, formula_16, formula_17, formula_18, and letters; these only, all others are derived. As De Morgan explains, the last of these symbols represents writing a latter expression in superscript over and after a former. His inventory of the fundamental laws is expressed under fourteen heads, but some of them are merely definitions. The preceding list of symbols is the matter under the first of these heads. The laws proper may be reduced to the following, which, as he admits, are not all independent of one another, \"but the unsymmetrical character of the exponential operation, and the want of the connecting process of formula_1 and formula_16 ... renders it necessary to state them separately\":\n\n\nDe Morgan professes to give a complete inventory of the laws which the symbols of algebra must obey, for he says, \"Any system of symbols which obeys these rules and no others—except they be formed by combination of these rules—and which uses the preceding symbols and no others—except they be new symbols invented in abbreviation of combinations of these symbols—is \"symbolic algebra\".\" From his point of view, none of the above principles are rules; they are formal laws, that is, arbitrarily chosen relations to which the algebraic symbols must be subject. He does not mention the law, which had already been pointed out by Gregory, namely, formula_49 and to which was afterwards given the name \"Law of association\". If the commutative law fails, the associative may hold good; but not \"vice versa\". It is an unfortunate thing for the symbolist or formalist that in universal arithmetic formula_50 is not equal to formula_51; for then the commutative law would have full scope. Why does he not give it full scope? Because the foundations of algebra are, after all, real not formal, material not symbolic. To the formalists the index operations are exceedingly refractory, in consequence of which some take no account of them, but relegate them to applied mathematics. To give an inventory of the laws which the symbols of algebra must obey is an impossible task, and reminds one not a little of the task of those philosophers who attempt to give an inventory of the \"a priori\" knowledge of the mind.\n\nWhen the study of mathematics revived at the University of Cambridge, so did the study of logic. The moving spirit was Whewell, the Master of Trinity College, whose principal writings were a \"History of the Inductive Sciences\", and \"Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences\". Doubtless De Morgan was influenced in his logical investigations by Whewell; but other influential contemporaries were Sir William Rowan Hamilton at Dublin, and George Boole at Cork. De Morgan's work, \"Formal Logic\", published in 1847, is principally remarkable for his development of the numerically definite syllogism. The followers of Aristotle say that from two particular propositions such as \"Some M's are A's\", and \"Some M's are B's\" nothing follows of necessity about the relation of the A's and B's. But they go further and say in order that any relation about the A's and B's may follow of necessity, the middle term must be taken universally in one of the premises. De Morgan pointed out that from \"Most M's are A's and Most M's are B's\" it follows of necessity that \"some A's are B's\" and he formulated the numerically definite syllogism which puts this principle in exact quantitative form. Suppose that the number of the M's is formula_52, of the M's that are A's is formula_53, and of the M's that are B's is formula_54; then there are at least formula_55 A's that are B's. Suppose that the number of souls on board a steamer was 1000, that 500 were in the saloon, and 700 were lost. It follows of necessity, that at least 700 + 500 – 1000, that is, 200, saloon passengers were lost. This single principle suffices to prove the validity of all the Aristotelian moods. It is therefore a fundamental principle in necessary reasoning.\n\nHere then De Morgan had made a great advance by introducing \"quantification of the terms\". At that time Sir William Hamilton was teaching in Edinburgh a doctrine of the quantification of the predicate, and a correspondence sprang up. However, De Morgan soon perceived that Hamilton's quantification was of a different character; that it meant for example, substituting the two forms \"The whole of A is the whole of B\", and \"The whole of A is a part of B\" for the Aristotelian form \"All A's are B's\". Hamilton thought that he had placed the keystone in the Aristotelian arch, as he phrased it. Although it must have been a curious arch which could stand 2000 years without a keystone. As a consequence he had no room for De Morgan's innovations. He accused De Morgan of plagiarism, and the controversy raged for years in the columns of the \"Athenæum\", and in the publications of the two writers.\n\nThe memoirs on logic which De Morgan contributed to the \"Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society\" subsequent to the publication of his book \"Formal Logic\" are by far the most important contributions which he made to the science, especially his fourth memoir, in which he begins work in the broad field of the \"logic of relatives\".\n\nIn the introduction to the \"Budget of Paradoxes\" De Morgan explains what he means by the word.\n\nHow can the sound paradoxer be distinguished from the false paradoxer? De Morgan supplies the following test:\n\nThe \"Budget\" consists of a review of a large collection of paradoxical books which De Morgan had accumulated in his own library, partly by purchase at bookstands, partly from books sent to him for review, partly from books sent to him by the authors. He gives the following classification: squarers of the circle, trisectors of the angle, duplicators of the cube, constructors of perpetual motion, subverters of gravitation, stagnators of the earth, builders of the universe. You will still find specimens of all these classes in the New World and in the new century. De Morgan gives his personal knowledge of paradoxers.\nA paradoxer to whom De Morgan paid the compliment which Achilles paid Hector — to drag him round the walls again and again — was James Smith, a successful merchant of Liverpool. He found formula_56. His mode of reasoning was a curious caricature of the \"reductio ad absurdum\" of Euclid. He said let formula_56, and then showed that on that supposition, every other value of formula_58 must be absurd. Consequently, formula_59 is the true value. The following is a specimen of De Morgan's dragging round the walls of Troy:\n\nIn the region of pure mathematics, De Morgan could detect easily the false from the true paradox; but he was not so proficient in the field of physics. His father-in-law was a paradoxer, and his wife a paradoxer; and in the opinion of the physical philosophers De Morgan himself scarcely escaped. His wife wrote a book describing the phenomena of spiritualism, table-rapping, table-turning, etc.; and De Morgan wrote a preface in which he said that he knew some of the asserted facts, believed others on testimony, but did not pretend to know \"whether\" they were caused by spirits, or had some unknown and unimagined origin. From this alternative he left out ordinary material causes. Faraday delivered a lecture on \"Spiritualism\", in which he laid it down that in the investigation we ought to set out with the idea of what is physically possible, or impossible; De Morgan did not believe this.\n\nDe Morgan developed the calculus of relations in his \"Syllabus of a Proposed System of Logic\" (1966: 208–46), first published in 1860. De Morgan was able to show that reasoning with syllogisms could be replaced with composition of relations. The calculus was described as the logic of relatives by Charles Sanders Peirce, who admired De Morgan and met him shortly before his death. The calculus was further extended in the third volume of Ernst Schröder's \"Vorlesungen über die Algebra der Logik\". Binary relations, especially order theory, proved critical to the \"Principia Mathematica\" of Bertrand Russell and Alfred North Whitehead. In turn, this calculus became the subject of much further work, starting in 1940, by Alfred Tarski and his colleagues and students at the University of California.\n\nDe Morgan later in his life became interested in the phenomena of spiritualism. In 1849 he had investigated clairvoyance and was impressed by the subject. He later carried out paranormal investigations in his own home with the medium Maria Hayden. The result of these investigations was later published by his wife Sophia. De Morgan believed that his career as a scientist might have been affected if he had revealed his interest in the study of spiritualism so he helped to publish the book anonymously. The book was published in 1863 titled \"From Matter to Spirit: The Result of Ten Years Experience in Spirit Manifestations\".\n\nAccording to historian Janet Oppenheim, De Morgan's wife Sophia was a convinced spiritualist but De Morgan shared a third way position on spiritualist phenomena which she defined as a \"wait-and-see position\", he was neither a believer nor a skeptic, instead his viewpoint was that the methodology of the physical sciences does not automatically exclude psychic phenomena and that such phenomena may be explainable in time by the possible existence of natural forces which as yet physicists had not identified.\n\nIn the preface of \"From Matter to Spirit\" (1863) De Morgan stated:\nPsychical researcher John Beloff wrote that De Morgan was the first notable scientist in Britain to take an interest in the study of spiritualism and his studies had influenced the decision of William Crookes to also study spiritualism. He also claims that De Morgan was an atheist and that this debarred him from a position at Oxford or Cambridge.\n\nBeyond his great mathematical legacy, the headquarters of the London Mathematical Society is called \"De Morgan House\" and the student society of the Mathematics Department of University College London is called the Augustus De Morgan Society.\n\nThe crater De Morgan on the Moon is named after him.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23948121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23948121", "title": "British Scholar Society", "text": "British Scholar Society\n\nThe British Scholar Society is a scholarly society focusing on Britain's role in the world from the seventeenth century to the present. It puts out a bi-annual academic journal published by Edinburgh University Press entitled \"Britain and the World: Historical Journal of The British Scholar Society\", as well as a \"Britain and the World\" book series with Palgrave Macmillan. The British Scholar Society also organizes a yearly academic conference, which has been held in both US and UK locations. Launched in 2006, the British Scholar Society is currently chaired by Martin Farr of Newcastle University. The chair of its advisory board is Linda Colley of Princeton University. The British Scholar Society describes its membership as \"people from around the world who share a common interest in Britain, its history, and its interactions with the wider world.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "41495636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41495636", "title": "Catacombs of Malta", "text": "Catacombs of Malta\n\nThere are hundreds of catacombs in Malta, principally found in the neighbourhood of Citta Vecchia, the old capital of the Island. The catacombs are very small, but are in good preservation.\n\nMany of the catacombs were included on the Antiquities List of 1925.\n\nThe catacombs include:\n\n\nThere are several other catacombs in Malta.\n\n"}
{"id": "40328109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40328109", "title": "Cittadella of Alessandria", "text": "Cittadella of Alessandria\n\nThe Cittadella of Alessandria () is a star fort and citadel in the city of Alessandria, Italy. It was built in the 18th century by the Kingdom of Sardinia, and today it is one of the best preserved fortifications of that era. It is one of the few fortifications in Europe still in their original environment, since there are no buildings blocking the views of the ramparts, or a road that surrounds the ditches.\n\nOn 10 March 1821, during the Piedmont insurrection, the blue, red and black tricolour of the Carbonari was raised on the Cittadella's bastions by Colonel Ansaldi. This was the first use of a tricolour flag in the history of Italy.\n\nThe Cittadella has been Italy's tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites since 2006.\n\nThe fortress lies across the river Tanaro in the north-west side of the city of Alessandria. The site is one of the lowest in the Piedmont region with an altitude of about above sea-level.\n\nSince its foundation, 1168, the town of Alessandria was always meant to be a border town with a strategic-military vocation. From the 14th century has joined the Visconti of Milan against Monferrato and Asti, with the Sforza then in the 15th century, and consequently under the Spaniards rule after, throughout the 17th century.\n\nThe construction of the fortress began immediately after the signing of the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713. The treaty handed ownership of the Citadel from the Spaniards to the House of Savoy. A massive fortification project followed, during which much of Alessandria's town-planning were changed to bolster the fortress's defenses.\n\nIn order to meet the needs of defense of the new state of Savoy, it was decided to build a massive fortress designed to function as a barrier of military transits traveling along the \"Road of Flanders\", the ancient Spanish military road that connected the harbors of Genova, Savona and Finale Ligure with the Netherlands.\n\nThe Citadel plan was commissioned by King Vittorio Amedeo II and effectively built, in 1732, by King Charles Emmanuel III. The project's architect was Ignazio Bertola. The fortress is a six-star hexagon shaped structure.\n\nThe Citadel was built entirely at the expense of the ancient quarter of Borgoglio (or Bergoglio) provoking strong urban revolution. It was completed in its main components in the forties of the 18th century while inside the fortified hexagon the buildings of the civilians were gradually demolished to make way for new military quarters and the inhabitants were forced to relocate, replaced by a garrison ever more numerous.\n\nThe result is an immense fortress which extends over whose longer side is parallel to the axis of the river. The Citadel is a perfect example of modern fortress composed of six bastioned fronts supplied with \"cavalieri\" crossed by tunnels and casemates. The fortress is surrounded by a wide moat, in connection with the Tanaro river through flooding tunnels, scheduled to be flooded by the waters of the river, and protected by \"tenaglioni\", ravelins, counterguards and \"ridottes\".\n\nThe entrance is by a long stone bridge that leads to a large area surrounded by multi-storey buildings arranged along the axis of the ancient quarter, all protected by resistant embankments constructed between 1749 and 1831.\n\nThe Citadel was tested by fire the first time between 1745 and 1746 when it resisted the French-Spanish army for seven months, during the War of the Austrian Succession. The Citadel was still incomplete and not well armed.\n\nAt the end of the First Italian Campaign, the Citadel was in the hands of the French: in July 1799 it was under siege by the Austro-Russian Army led by Aleksandr Vasilyevich Suvorov. After three days of bombing were inflicted serious damage to the fortified structures and the French were forced to surrender.\n\nFollowing the Battle of Marengo and the proclamation of the First French Empire, Napoleon expanded and renovated the fort to support the operations of the French army in Italy. During the French occupation, the citadel became one of the most important fortresses in the French Empire, since it was intended to be the \"eastern gateway\" of France.\n\nIn 1814 the Austrian army captured the fort and transferred it to the restored Kingdom of Sardinia. The fort was renovated, and by the mid-19th century it became an important bulwark against the Austrian Empire.\n\nOn 10 March 1821, the Cittadella's garrison mutinied, marking the beginning of the Piedmont insurrection, and Colonel Ansaldi raised the blue, red and black tricolour of the Carbonari on the bastions. The insurrection spread quickly throughout Piedmont, but it was suppressed by the Austrians at the end of April. The Austrians subsequently took over the fort and occupied it until 1823. Various Young Italy affiliates were imprisoned in the fort, and five were executed by firing squad in 1833.\n\nAfter the Austrians defeated the Kingdom of Sardinia during the Battle of Novara in 1849, the fort was again occupied by Austrian forces for three months. After the Alessandria was back in Sardinian hands, the number of guns within the Cittadella was increased, and three nearby Napoleonic forts (Forte Ferrovia, Forte Bormida and Forte Acqui) were strengthened. The fort saw use during the Second Italian War of Independence of 1859, and Napoleon III spent some time there during the war.\n\nFollowing the Italian unification and the proclamation of the Kingdom of Italy, Alessandria became a defensive centre of the kingdom's western border. In 1889, the Cittadella's status changed to command headquarters and barracks. Nonetheless, it remained a key site for the Royal Italian Army.\n\nIn 1901 the Army Corps of Engineers decommissioned the citadel's \"cinta magistrale\". The Forte di Acqui, the Opera di Valenza and the citadel's outworks were decommissioned in 1904.\n\nSeveral regiments were stationed in the Cittadella, including the 37th and 38th Infantry Regiments, which formed part of the 3rd Mountain Infantry Division Ravenna.\n\nThe Governor's Palace in the Cittadella was declared a National Monument by royal charter dated 17 May 1943.\n\nOn 9 September 1943, the Germans entered Alessandria and captured the Cittadella after a short bombardment. The Italian garrison surrendered and were deported to Germany.\nThe city of Alessandria was heavily bombed on 5 September 1944, but the Cittadella did not suffer a lot of damage. However, a bomb shelter located near the fort was hit, killing 39 civilians.\n\nThe Cittadella was captured by partisans in 1945, and it subsequently became the seat of the Brazilian Expeditionary Force.\n\nFrom 1953 to 1962, the citadel was home to the 52nd Artillery Regiment \"Torino\". It was then used for logistics functions and as a magazine.\n\nIn 1994, the citadel was flooded by the river, and many buildings were severely damaged. Today, some areas are still filled with mud from the flood.\n\nThe Cittadella was officially decommissioned in 2007, when the Ministry of Defence handed it over to the Italian Public Property Agency.\n\nOn 18 June 2010, a permanent exhibition of about 1500 uniforms, weapons and memorabilia of the Royal Italian Army was established within the fort.\n\nIn 2014, the Cittadella was listed as one of \"The 7 Most Endangered\" sites by Europa Nostra, mainly due to the spread of weeds which threatens the fortification.\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "6938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6938", "title": "Classical order", "text": "Classical order\n\nAn order in architecture is a certain assemblage of parts subject to uniform established proportions, regulated by the office that each part has to perform.\nComing down to the present from Ancient Greek and Ancient Roman civilization, the architectural orders are the styles of classical architecture, each distinguished by its proportions and characteristic profiles and details, and most readily recognizable by the type of column employed. The three orders of architecture—the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian—originated in Greece. To these the Romans added, in practice if not in name, the Tuscan, which they made simpler than Doric, and the Composite, which was more ornamental than the Corinthian. The architectural order of a classical building is akin to the mode or key of classical music, the grammar or rhetoric of a written composition. It is established by certain \"modules\" like the intervals of music, and it raises certain expectations in an audience attuned to its language.\n\nWhereas the orders were essentially structural in Ancient Greek architecture, which made little use of the arch until its late period, in Roman architecture where the arch was often dominant, the orders became increasingly decorative elements except in porticos and similar uses. Columns shrank into half-columns emerging from walls or turned into pilasters. This treatment continued after the conscious and \"correct\" use of the orders, initially following exclusively Roman models, returned in the Italian Renaissance. Greek Revival architecture, inspired by increasing knowledge of Greek originals, returned to more authentic models, including ones from relatively early periods.\n\nEach style has distinctive capitals at the top of columns and horizontal entablatures which it supports, while the rest of the building does not in itself vary between the orders. The column shaft and base also varies with the order, and is sometimes articulated with vertical hollow grooves known as fluting. The shaft is wider at the bottom than at the top, because its entasis, beginning a third of the way up, imperceptibly makes the column slightly more slender at the top, although some Doric columns, especially early Greek ones, are visibly \"flared\", with straight profiles that narrow going up the shaft.\n\nThe capital rests on the shaft. It has a load-bearing function, which concentrates the weight of the entablature on the supportive column, but it primarily serves an aesthetic purpose. The necking is the continuation of the shaft, but is visually separated by one or many grooves. The echinus lies atop the necking. It is a circular block that bulges outwards towards the top to support the abacus, which is a square or shaped block that in turn supports the entablature. The entablature consists of three horizontal layers, all of which are visually separated from each other using moldings or bands. In Roman and post-Renaissance work, the entablature may be carried from column to column in the form of an arch that springs from the column that bears its weight, retaining its divisions and sculptural enrichment, if any. There are names for all the many parts of the orders.\n\nThe height of columns are calculated in terms of a ratio between the diameter of the shaft at its base and the height of the column. A Doric column can be described as seven diameters high, an Ionic column as eight diameters high and a Corinthian column nine diameters high, although the actual ratios used vary considerably in both ancient and revived examples, but keeping to the trend of increasing slimness between the orders. Sometimes this is phrased as \"lower diameters high\", to establish which part of the shaft has been measured.\n\nThere are three distinct orders in Ancient Greek architecture: Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian. These three were adopted by the Romans, who modified their capitals. The Roman adoption of the Greek orders took place in the 1st century BC. The three Ancient Greek orders have since been consistently used in neo-classical European architecture.\n\nSometimes the Doric order is considered the earliest order, but there is no evidence to support this. Rather, the Doric and Ionic orders seem to have appeared at around the same time, the Ionic in eastern Greece and the Doric in the west and mainland.\n\nBoth the Doric and the Ionic order appear to have originated in wood. The Temple of Hera in Olympia is the oldest well-preserved temple of Doric architecture. It was built just after 600 BC. The Doric order later spread across Greece and into Sicily where it was the chief order for monumental architecture for 800 years. Early Greeks were no doubt aware of the use of stone columns with bases and capitals in Ancient Egyptian architecture, and that of other Near Eastern cultures, although there they were mostly used in interiors, rather than as a dominant feature of all or part of exteriors, in the Greek style. \n\nThe Doric order originated on the mainland and western Greece. It is the simplest of the orders, characterized by short, organized, heavy columns with plain, round capitals (tops) and no base. With a height that is only four to eight times its diameter, the columns are the most squat of all orders. The shaft of the Doric order is channeled with 16 flutes. The capital consists of a necking or Annulet which is a simple ring. The echinus is convex, or circular cushion like stone, and the abacus is square slab of stone.\n\nAbove the capital is a square abacus connecting the capital to the entablature. The Entablature is divided into three horizontal registers, the lower part of which is either smooth or divided by horizontal lines. The upper half is distinctive for the Doric order. The frieze of the Doric entablature is divided into triglyphs and metopes. A triglyph is a unit consisting of three vertical bands which are separated by grooves. Metopes are the plain or carved reliefs between two triglyphs.\n\nThe Greek forms of the Doric order come without an individual base. They instead are placed directly on the stylobate. Later forms, however, came with the conventional base consisting of a plinth and a torus. The Roman versions of the Doric order have smaller proportions. As a result, they appear lighter than the Greek orders.\n\nThe Ionic order came from eastern Greece, where its origins are entwined with the similar but little known Aeolic order. It is distinguished by slender, fluted pillars with a large base and two opposed \"volutes\" (also called \"scrolls\") in the echinus of the capital. The echinus itself is decorated with an egg-and-dart motif. The Ionic shaft comes with four more flutes than the Doric counterpart (totalling 24). The Ionic base has two convex moldings called \"tori\" which are separated by a scotia.\n\nThe Ionic order is also marked by an entasis, a curved tapering in the column shaft. A column of the ionic order is nine times its lower diameter. The shaft itself is eight diameters high. The architrave of the entablature commonly consists of three stepped bands (\"fasciae\"). The frieze comes without the Doric \"triglyph\" and \"metope\". The frieze sometimes comes with a continuous ornament such as carved figures instead.\n\nThe Corinthian order is the most ornate of the Greek orders, characterized by a slender fluted column having an ornate capital decorated with two rows of acanthus leaves and four scrolls. It is commonly regarded as the most elegant of the three orders. The shaft of the Corinthian order has 24 flutes. The column is commonly ten diameters high.\n\nThe Roman writer Vitruvius credited the invention of the Corinthian order to Callimachus, a Greek sculptor of the 5th century BC. The oldest known building built according to this order is the Choragic Monument of Lysicrates in Athens, constructed from 335 to 334 BC. The Corinthian order was raised to rank by the writings of Vitruvius in the 1st century BC.\n\nThe Romans adapted all the Greek orders and also developed two orders of their own, basically modifications of Greek orders. However, it was not until the Renaissance that these were named and formalized as the Tuscan and Composite, respectively the plainest and most ornate of the orders. The Romans also invented the superposed order. A superposed order is when successive stories of a building have different orders. The heaviest orders were at the bottom, whilst the lightest came at the top. This means that the Doric order was the order of the ground floor, the Ionic order was used for the middle story, while the Corinthian or the Composite order was used for the top story.\n\nThe Colossal order was invented by architects in the Renaissance. The Colossal order is characterized by columns that extend the height of two or more stories.\n\nThe Tuscan order has a very plain design, with a plain shaft, and a simple capital, base, and frieze. It is a simplified adaptation of the Doric order by the Greeks. The Tuscan order is characterized by an unfluted shaft and a capital that only consists of an echinus and an abacus. In proportions it is similar to the Doric order, but overall it is significantly plainer. The column is normally seven diameters high. Compared to the other orders, the Tuscan order looks the most solid.\n\nThe Composite order is a mixed order, combining the volutes of the Ionic with the leaves of the Corinthian order. Until the Renaissance it was not ranked as a separate order. Instead it was considered as a late Roman form of the Corinthian order. The column of the Composite order is typically ten diameters high.\n\nThe Renaissance period saw renewed interest in the literary sources of the ancient cultures of Greece and Rome, and the fertile development of a new architecture based on classical principles. The treatise \"De architectura\" by Roman theoretician, architect and engineer Vitruvius, is the only architectural writing that survived from Antiquity. Rediscovered in the 15th century, Vitruvius was instantly hailed as the authority on architecture. However, in his text the word \"order\" is not to be found. To describe the four species of columns (he only mentions: Tuscan, Doric, Ionic and Corinthian) he uses, in fact, various words such as: \"genus\" (gender), \"mos\" (habit, fashion, manner), \"opera\" (work).\n\nThe term \"order\", as well as the idea of redefining the \"canon\" started circulating in Rome, at the beginning of the 16th century, probably during the studies of Vitruvius' text conducted and shared by Peruzzi, Raphael and Sangallo.\nEver since, the definition of the \"canon\" has been a collective endeavor that involved several generations of European architects, from Renaissance and Baroque periods, basing their theories both on the study of Vitruvius' writings and the observation of Roman ruins (the Greek ruins became available only after Greek Independence, 1821–23). What was added were rules for the use of the Architectural Orders, and the exact proportions of them down to the most minute detail. Commentary on the appropriateness of the orders for temples devoted to particular deities (Vitruvius I.2.5) were elaborated by Renaissance theorists, with Doric characterized as bold and manly, Ionic as matronly, and Corinthian as maidenly.\n\nFollowing the examples of Vitruvius and the five books of the \"Regole generali di architettura sopra le cinque maniere de gli edifici\" by Sebastiano Serlio, published from 1537 onwards, Giacomo Barozzi da Vignola produced an architecture rule book that was not only more practical than the previous two treatises, but also was systematically and consistently adopting, for the first time, the term order to define each of the five different species of columns inherited from Antiquity. A first publication of the various plates, as separate sheets, appeared in Rome in 1562, with the title: \"Regola delli Cinque Ordini di Architettura\" (\"Canon of the Five Orders of Architecture \"). As David Watkin has pointed out, Vignola's book \"was to have an astonishing publishing history of over 500 editions in 400 years in ten languages, Italian, Dutch, English, Flemish, French, German, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, during which it became perhaps the most influential book of all times\".\nThe book consisted simply of an introduction followed by 32 annotated plates, highlighting the proportional system with all the minute details of the Five Architectural Orders. According to Christof Thoenes, the main expert of Renaissance architectural treatises, \"in accordance with Vitruvius’s example, Vignola chose a “module” equal to a half-diameter which is the base of the system. All the other measurements are expressed in fractions or in multiples of this module. The result is an arithmetical model, and with its help each order, harmoniously proportioned, can easily be adapted to any given height, of a façade or an interior. From this point of view, Vignola's Regola is a remarkable intellectual achievement\".\n\nIn America, \"The American Builder's Companion\", written in the early 19th century by the architect Asher Benjamin, influenced many builders in the eastern states, particularly those who developed what became known as the Federal style. The last American re-interpretation of Vignola's \"Regola\", was edited in 1904 by William Robert Ware.\n\nThe break from the classical mode came first with the Gothic revival, then the development of modernism during the 19th century. The Bauhaus promoted pure functionalism, stripped of superfluous ornament, and that has become one of the defining characteristics of modern architecture. There are some exceptions. Postmodernism introduced an ironic use of the orders as a cultural reference, divorced from the strict rules of composition. On the other hand, a few practitioners e.g. Quinlan Terry and Stuart Martin still work in a traditional classical idiom.\n\nSeveral orders, usually based upon the composite order and only varying in the design of the capitals, have been invented under the inspiration of specific occasions, but have not been used again. They are termed \"nonce orders\" by analogy to \"nonce words\"; several examples follow below. \nThese nonce orders all express the “speaking architecture” (\"architecture parlante\") that was taught in the Paris courses, most explicitly by Étienne-Louis Boullée, in which sculptural details of classical architecture could be enlisted to speak symbolically, the better to express the purpose of the structure and enrich its visual meaning with specific appropriateness. This idea was taken up strongly in the training of Beaux-Arts architecture, ca 1875–1915. \n\nRobert Adam's brother James was in Rome in 1762, drawing antiquities under the direction of Clérisseau; he invented a British Order and published an engraving of it. Its capital the heraldic lion and unicorn take the place of the Composite's volutes, a Byzantine or Romanesque conception, but expressed in terms of neoclassical realism. Adam's ink-and-wash rendering with red highlighting is at the Avery Library, Columbia University.\n\nIn 1789 George Dance invented an Ammonite Order, a variant of Ionic substituting volutes in the form of fossil ammonites for John Boydell's Shakespeare Gallery in Pall Mall, London. An adaptation of the Corinthian order by William Donthorne that used turnip leaves and mangelwurzel is termed the Agricultural order.\nIn the United States Benjamin Latrobe, the architect of the Capitol building in Washington DC, designed a series of botanically American orders. Most famous is the order substituting corncobs and their husks, which was executed by Giuseppe Franzoni and employed in the small domed Vestibule of the Supreme Court. Only the Supreme Court survived the fire of 24 August 1814, nearly intact. With peace restored, Latrobe designed an American order that substituted for the acanthus tobacco leaves, of which he sent a sketch to Thomas Jefferson in a letter, 5 November 1816. He was encouraged to send a model of it, which remains at Monticello. In the 1830s Alexander Jackson Davis admired it enough to make a drawing of it. In 1809 Latrobe invented a second American order, employing magnolia flowers constrained within the profile of classical mouldings, as his drawing demonstrates. It was intended for \"the Upper Columns in the Gallery of the Entrance of the Chamber of the Senate\" ().\nEdwin Lutyens, who from 1912 laid out New Delhi as the new seat of government for the British Empire in India, designed a Delhi Order having a capital displaying a band of vertical ridges, and with bells hanging at each corner as a replacement for volutes. His design for the new city's central palace, Viceroy's House, now the Presidential residence Rashtrapati Bhavan, was a thorough integration of elements of Indian architecture into a building of classical forms and proportions, and made use of the order throughout. The Delhi Order reappears in some later Lutyens buildings including Campion Hall, Oxford.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41773621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41773621", "title": "Collections maintenance", "text": "Collections maintenance\n\nCollection maintenance is a form of collections care that consists of the day-to-day hands on care of collections and cultural heritage. The primary goal of collections maintenance is to prevent further decay of cultural heritage by ensuring proper storage and upkeep including performing regular housekeeping of the spaces and objects and monitoring and controlling storage environments. Collections maintenance is closely linked to collections care and collections management. The professionals most influenced by collections maintenance include collection managers, registrars, and archivists.\n\nThere are four main environmental agents of deterioration which should be monitored on a regular basis as part of maintenance. These are temperature, relative humidity, light and dust. It is important to recognize the type of damage each agent may present as well as ways to mitigate any harm.\n\nTemperature as an agent of deterioration acts primarily in conjunction with relative humidity but can trigger damage in its own right. At the extremes, temperature can cause structural damage to some materials; paint may become brittle in excessive heat and some plastics may soften or melt in the heat. “High temperatures also accelerate chemical and biological processes.” \n\nRelative Humidity (RH) is the amount of water held in the air as related to how much could be held in fully saturated air. The possible amount of moisture held at a given time is directly related to temperature; warm air holds more humidity than cold. Collecting institutions aim to keep the RH constant in exhibitions and storage areas because many organic objects expand and contract as both temperature and RH change. Furniture will swell and stick with high moisture, but may crack or shrink if there is too little. “Rapidly fluctuating temperature and relative humidity compound all of these effects.” High humidity may accelerate mold growth and some chemical changes, like metal corrosion, if not properly maintained.\n\nSome changes undergone by objects are reversible by adjusting the RH, but damage like cracks are more permanent. Keeping the RH within a reasonable span for the type of object and as consistent as possible will prevent most RH based damage. It is important to measure the RH of spaces regularly by using a number of tools including humidity strips, thermo-hygrographs, hygrometers, psychrometer and data loggers. Once the per cent humidity identified, there are a number of ways to adjust it by using humidifiers, dehumidifiers, improve heating and air conditioning systems and adjust the temperature of the space.\n\nLight, as it relates to collections maintenance, consists of visual and ultraviolet light (UV). Both types of light can cause damage as “light radiation falling on a surface provides energy to induce chemical changes in the molecules of the material.” Damage from light, including loss of color and strength, is cumulative and irreversible. It is therefore crucial that light levels are monitored.\n\nPreventing light damage is difficult because it is necessary for visitors as well as people who are working with the objects. Exposure, however, can be diminished by ensuring lights are only on when people are present, either by vigilant staff members turning on and off lights, timer switches or with motion sensors. Natural light from windows should be reduced or eliminated in all spaces by covering them with curtains, shades or UV absorbing filters. Where lights frequently on, like in galleries and office areas, a light meter should be used to determine how much exposure the collections are getting at least once a year and adjustments should be made accordingly.\n\nDust can contain a number of materials including skin, mold and inorganic fragments like silica or sulfur. It is important to keep collections free of dust whenever possible because it can become bound to a surface over time, making it that significantly more difficult to remove. Dust is hygroscopic, meaning it is able to attract and hold water molecules creating an ideal climate for mold spores to grow and cause biological damage. This hygroscopic trait can also prompt chemical reactions on a surface, especially upon metals. Inorganic dust particles may have tough sharp edges which can cause a number of types of damage from tearing fibers to abrading softer surfaces if not properly removed. Wiping a clean cloth over a surface dusty with these inorganic particles may result in irreversible abrasions.\n\nThe best way to prevent damage from dust is to control and prevent substantial buildup of dust in the first place. This can be done by using air filters in the heating and air conditioning systems as well as using vacuum cleaners equipped with HEPA filters when possible. Limiting the amount of exposed surface areas of collections can also prevent dust from settling on objects. This can be done by storing objects in acid-free boxes, object specific enclosures, in drawers or covering open shelves with a polyethylene sheet.\n\nMaintaining a clean and orderly spaces ensures not only ease of accessibility but also the safety of the collections and those who work with them.\n\nIt is essential that collections have an organizational system to store and house objects. The system may be grounded in relations to size, material, cultural or historical grouping as it makes sense to the collection. Structured organizational systems make identifying object locations straightforward and consistent which will help locating and returning an object to its proper space.\n\nPart of a system is the use of “successive layers of protective envelopes and enclosures.” Types of “layers” include nearly everything from storage spaces, padded shelves, non-acidic archival boxes and individual packaging. Each new layer should provide further protection by creating a microclimate buffer between an object and environmental fluctuations, light, dust and pollutants.\n\nKeeping spaces clean and clear of debris is crucial to the preservation of object in several ways. Primarily it ensures that objects don’t become over exposed to detrimental agents like dust, but it also ensures that the areas are safe for people and objects to move within, unobstructed by potential hazards. Tasks that fall under this purview include routine inspection and dusting of work areas and objects, and general cleaning of work areas. Spaces and objects should be monitored and inspected regularly to ensure that any problem is caught and resolved quickly or note any condition change.\n\nThe regularity of dusting and cleaning will differ institution to institution, and will depend upon factors like foot-traffic, how well the space is sealed off from the outside, and how long it takes for dust to build up. As a general rule, work areas should be cleaned frequently, storage areas and furniture less so, and objects dusted occasionally and only after consulting a conservator. Inside work areas, floors should be swept or vacuumed and work surfaces should be cleared off and dusted. Storage areas probably need less frequent attention, but should still have the floors cleaned and exposed surfaces of storage furniture like shelves wiped down. Objects themselves may sometimes need dusting if they are not boxed or wrapped up. Prior to dusting an object, the condition and stability needs to be considered, and a conservator should be consulted before any attempt is made. Research should also be done into how best to clean a particular type of medium or object.\n\n"}
{"id": "5569772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5569772", "title": "Comedic genres", "text": "Comedic genres\n\nComedy may be divided into multiple genres based on the source of humor, the method of delivery, and the context in which it is delivered.\n\nThese classifications overlap, and most comedians can fit into multiple genres. For example, deadpan comics often fall into observational boom comedy, or into black comedy or blue comedy to contrast the morbidity, or offensiveness of the joke with a lack of emotion.\n"}
{"id": "42481286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42481286", "title": "Comparison of free off-line satellite navigation software", "text": "Comparison of free off-line satellite navigation software\n\nThis article contains a list with gratis (but not necessarily open source) satellite navigation (or \"GPS\") software for a range of devices (PC, laptop, tablet PC, mobile phone, handheld PC (Pocket PC, Palm)). Some of the free software mentioned here does not have detailed maps (or maps at all) or the ability to follow streets or type in street names (no geocoding). However, in many cases, it is also that which makes the program free (and sometimes open source), avoid the need of an Internet connection, and make it very lightweight (allowing use on small portable devices, including smartphones). Very basic programs like this may not be suitable for road navigation in cars, but serve their purpose for navigation while walking or trekking, and for use at sea. To determine the GPS coordinates of a destination, one can use sites such as GPScoordinates.eu and GPS visualizer.\n\nSome software presented here is free, but maps may need to be paid for. In this instance, and in the instance that some maps (of specific countries) are not standardly available, Mobile Atlas Creator (MOBAC) can be used (e.g. on OruxMaps, Maverick, Sports Tracker, Maplorer).\n\nSome of the software mentioned can also be run on different devices than what they are intended for. A particular case-in-point is the Android software which can often be run on laptops or PCs (running Linux, Windows or Mac OS X) as well. This can be done using emulators.\n\nSome of the software mentioned here may run only on devices that are no longer commercially sold (such as the PalmPilot and PocketPC devices). However, these devices are often still obtainable via second-hand websites.\n\nNavigation software with free maps often uses maps from the OpenStreetMap project.\n\n"}
{"id": "52439831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52439831", "title": "Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act", "text": "Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act\n\nThe Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) was signed into law by President Obama on July 22, 2016. The bill was introduced by Senator Sheldon Whitehouse and Representative Jim Sensenbrenner as the first major federal addiction act in 40 years.\nDonald Trump has voiced strong support for the Act.\n\nCARA authorizes over $181 million to respond to the epidemic of opioid abuse, and is intended to greatly increase both prevention programs and the availability of treatment programs. However, while this bill authorizes the program, funds must still be appropriated by congress through the usual budget process.\n\nIn May 2017, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) announced grants totaling $2.6 million for recovery community organizations to build addiction recovery networks and engage in public education as authorized under CARA.\n"}
{"id": "45283782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45283782", "title": "Copper Age state societies", "text": "Copper Age state societies\n\nThe Chalcolithic or Copper Age is the transitional period between the Neolithic and the Bronze Age. \nIt is taken to begin around the mid-5th millennium BC, and ends with the beginning of the Bronze Age proper, in the late 4th to 3rd millennium BC, depending on the region.\n\nThe Chalcolithic is part of prehistory, but based on archaeological evidence, the emergence of the first state societies can be inferred, notably in the Fertile Crescent (Sumer, predynastic Egypt, Protominoan Crete), with late Neolithic societies of comparable complexity emerging in the Indus Valley (Mehrgarh) and in China.\n\nThe development of states—large-scale, populous, politically centralized, and socially stratified polities/societies governed by powerful rulers—marks one of the major milestones in the evolution of human societies. Archaeologists often distinguish between primary (or pristine) states and secondary states. Primary states evolved independently through largely internal developmental processes rather than through the influence of any other pre-existing state. \n\nThe earliest known primary states appeared in Mesopotamia c. 3700 BC, in Egypt c. 3300 BC, \nin the Indus Valley c. 3300 BC,\nand in China c. 1600 BC. \n\n"}
{"id": "55184616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55184616", "title": "Culture, Theory and Critique", "text": "Culture, Theory and Critique\n\nCulture, Theory and Critique is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal primarily in the fields of Social Theory and Cultural Studies.\n"}
{"id": "1524656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1524656", "title": "Dajare", "text": "Dajare\n\n\"Dajare\" are popular in advertising. \"Dajare\" are also associated with , \"oyaji\" meaning \"old man\", as an \"old man\" would be considered by the younger generation most likely to attempt \"dajare\", making them a near equivalent of what would be called \"dad jokes\" in English.\n\nExample one:\n\nExample two:\n\nExample three:\n\nExample four:\n\nExample one:\n\nExample two:<br>\n\nThere are also some jokes mostly used by children that resemble \"dajare\". These are also considered jokes that \"everybody knows\" in most parts of Japan. These are examples of \"ginatayomi\" (ぎなた読み), which relies on ambiguity in where one word ends and another begins.\n\nExample one:<br>\n\nExample two:<br>\nCan also be interpreted as:<br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2931779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2931779", "title": "Deputy Attorney General", "text": "Deputy Attorney General\n\nThe Deputy Attorney General (DAG) is the second-highest-ranking official in a department of justice or of law, in various governments of the world. In those governments, the Deputy Attorney General oversees the day-to-day operation of the department, and may act as Attorney General during the absence of the Attorney General. \nIn Pakistan (DAG) is of grade 21.\n\nIn the United States, the Deputy Attorney General is appointed by the President.\n\nIn Pakistan, there is Additional Attorney General then Deputy Attorney General and back bone of the attorney General's office is Assistant Attorney General, all are appointed by the President of Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "21322333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21322333", "title": "Dogzilla (picture book)", "text": "Dogzilla (picture book)\n\nDogzilla is a children's picture book created by Dav Pilkey that parodies \"Godzilla\" with a Cardigan Welsh Corgi. Harcourt, Inc. published this title in 1993. “The illustrations in this book are manipulated photographic collage, heavily retouched with acrylic paint.” The photographs of the animals are of Pilkey’s own pets: Flash starring as the Big Cheese, Rabies as Professor Scarlett O’Hairy, Dwayne as the Soldier Guy, and Leia as the Monster. Dogzilla is dedicated to John “The Rapper” Wills and the book has been rated EG, meaning “Extremely Goofy.” A companion title is Dav Pilkey’s \"Kat Kong\" which spoofs King Kong.\n\n“It’s time for Mousopolis’s First Annual Barbecue Cook-Off. But just when the fun is about to begin, the irresistible aroma of barbecue sauce awakens the most frightening creature known to mousekind: the dreaded Dogzilla. As her horrible doggy breath fills the streets, the residents of Mousopolis must run for their lives. Can they get rid of that big stinky dog before it’s too late?” \n\n\"The inspiration for \"Dogzilla\" came one day when I was at a friend's house watching one of my favorite movies, \"Godzilla vs. Megalon\". My friend's son, Nate, was sitting on the floor building a castle out of Lego. Everything was fine until Nate let his dog, Leia, into the house. Leia came charging into the room and smashed right through the Lego castle. With the mass of little Lego blocks and action figures scattered around her, Leia looked like a silly monster who had just rampaged a city. 'I should write a book about that,' I said. So I did.\" — Dav Pilkey\n\nPublishers Weekly described 'Dogzilla as \"featuring a wacky mix of animal photos, art and a deadpan Sam Spade-style narrative.\"\nIt appears on reading and study lists.\n"}
{"id": "173395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173395", "title": "Elgin Marbles", "text": "Elgin Marbles\n\nThe Elgin Marbles (), also known as the Parthenon Marbles (Greek: Γλυπτά του Παρθενώνα), are a collection of Classical Greek marble sculptures made under the supervision of the architect and sculptor Phidias and his assistants. They were originally part of the temple of the Parthenon and other buildings on the Acropolis of Athens.\n\nFrom 1801 to 1812, agents of Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin removed about half of the surviving sculptures of the Parthenon, as well as sculptures from the Propylaea and Erechtheum. The Marbles were transported by sea to Britain. Elgin later claimed to have obtained in 1801 an official decree (a firman) from the Sublime Porte, the central government of the Ottoman Empire which were then the rulers of Greece. This firman has not been found in the Ottoman archives despite its wealth of documents from the same period and its veracity is disputed. The half not removed by Elgin is now displayed in the Acropolis Museum, aligned in orientation and within sight of the Parthenon, with the position of the missing elements clearly marked and space left should they be returned to Athens.\n\nIn Britain, the acquisition of the collection was supported by some, while some others, such as Lord Byron, likened the Earl's actions to vandalism or looting. Following a public debate in Parliament and its subsequent exoneration of Elgin, he sold the Marbles to the British government in 1816. They were then passed to the British Museum, where they are now on display in the purpose-built Duveen Gallery.\n\nAfter gaining its independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1832, the newly found Greek state began a series of projects to restore its monuments and retrieve looted art. It has expressed its disapproval of Elgin's removal of the Marbles from the Acropolis and the Parthenon, which is regarded as one of the world's greatest cultural monuments. International efforts to repatriate the Marbles to Greece were intensified in the 1980s by then Greek Minister of Culture Melina Mercouri, and there are now many organisations actively campaigning for the Marbles' return, several united as part of the International Association for the Reunification of the Parthenon Sculptures. The Greek government itself continues to urge the return of the marbles to Athens so as to be unified with the remaining marbles and for the complete Parthenon frieze sequence to be restored, through diplomatic, political and legal means.\n\nIn 2014, UNESCO offered to mediate between Greece and the United Kingdom to resolve the dispute, although this was later turned down by the British Museum on the basis that UNESCO works with government bodies, not trustees of museums.\nIn 2018, the leader of the British Labour party Jeremy Corbyn vowed to return the Marbles to Greece if he becomes prime minister.\n\nIn November 1798 the Earl of Elgin was appointed as \"Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of His Britannic Majesty to the Sublime Porte of Selim III, Sultan of Turkey\" (Greece was then part of the Ottoman Empire). Before his departure to take up the post he had approached officials of the British government to inquire if they would be interested in employing artists to take casts and drawings of the sculptured portions of the Parthenon. According to Lord Elgin, \"the answer of the Government ... was entirely negative.\"\n\nLord Elgin decided to carry out the work himself, and employed artists to take casts and drawings under the supervision of the Neapolitan court painter, Giovani Lusieri. According to a Turkish local, marble sculptures that fell were being burned to obtain lime for building. Although his original intention was only to document the sculptures, in 1801 Lord Elgin began to remove material from the Parthenon and its surrounding structures under the supervision of Lusieri. Pieces were also removed from the Erechtheion, the Propylaia, and the Temple of Athena Nike, all inside the Acropolis.\n\nThe excavation and removal was completed in 1812 at a personal cost to Elgin of around £70,000. Elgin intended to use the marbles to decorate Broomhall House, his private home near Dunfermline in Scotland, but a costly divorce suit forced him to sell them to settle his debts. Elgin sold the Parthenon Marbles to the British government for less than it cost him to procure them, declining higher offers from other potential buyers, including Napoleon.\n\nThe Parthenon Marbles acquired by Elgin include some 21 figures from the statuary from the east and west pediments, 15 of an original 92 metope panels depicting battles between the Lapiths and the Centaurs, as well as 75 meters of the Parthenon Frieze which decorated the horizontal course set above the interior architrave of the temple. As such, they represent more than half of what now remains of the surviving sculptural decoration of the Parthenon.\n\nElgin's acquisitions also included objects from other buildings on the Athenian Acropolis: a Caryatid from Erechtheum; four slabs from the parapet frieze of the Temple of Athena Nike; and a number of other architectural fragments of the Parthenon, Propylaia, Erechtheum, the Temple of Athene Nike, and the Treasury of Atreus.\n\nThe Acropolis was at that time an Ottoman military fort, so Elgin required special permission to enter the site, the Parthenon, and the surrounding buildings. He stated that he had obtained a firman from the Sultan which allowed his artists to access the site, but he was unable to produce the original documentation. However, Elgin presented a document claimed to be an English translation of an Italian copy made at the time. This document is now kept in the British Museum. Its authenticity has been questioned, as it lacked the formalities characterising edicts from the sultan. Vassilis Demetriades, Professor of Turkish Studies at the University of Crete, has argued that \"any expert in Ottoman diplomatic language can easily ascertain that the original of the document which has survived was not a firman\". The document was recorded in an appendix of an 1816 parliamentary committee report. 'The committee permission' had convened to examine a request by Elgin asking the British government to purchase the Marbles. The report said that the document in the appendix was an accurate translation, in English, of an Ottoman firman dated July 1801. In Elgin's view it amounted to an Ottoman authorisation to remove the marbles. The committee was told that the original document was given to Ottoman officials in Athens in 1801. Researchers have so far failed to locate it despite the fact that the Ottoman archives in Istanbul still hold a number of similar documents dating from the same period.\n\nThe parliamentary record shows that the Italian copy of the firman was not presented to the committee by Elgin himself but by one of his associates, the clergyman Rev. Philip Hunt. Hunt, who at the time resided in Bedford, was the last witness to appear before the committee and stated that he had in his possession an Italian translation of the Ottoman original. He went on to explain that he had not brought the document, because, upon leaving Bedford, he was not aware that he was to testify as a witness. The English document in the parliamentary report was filed by Hunt, but the committee was not presented with the Italian translation in Hunt's possession. William St. Clair, a contemporary biographer of Lord Elgin, said he possessed Hunt's Italian document and \"vouches for the accuracy of the English translation\". The committee report states on page 69 \"(Signed with a signet.) Seged Abdullah Kaimacan\" - however, the document presented to the committee was \"an English translation of this purported translation into Italian of the original \"firman\"\", and had neither signet nor signature on it, a fact corroborated by St. Clair. The 1967 study by British historian William St. Clair, \"Lord Elgin and the Marbles,\" stated the sultan did not allow the removal of statues and reliefs from the Parthenon. The study judged a clause authorizing the British to take stones “with old inscriptions and figures” probably meant items in the excavations the site, not the art decorating the temples.\n\nThe document allowed Elgin and his team to erect scaffolding so as to make drawings and mouldings in chalk or gypsum, as well as to measure the remains of the ruined buildings and excavate the foundations which may have become covered in the [\"ghiaja\" (meaning gravel, debris)]; and \"...that when they wish to take away [\"qualche\" (meaning 'some' or 'a few')] pieces of stone with old inscriptions or figures thereon, that no opposition be made thereto\". The interpretation of these lines has been questioned even by non-restitutionalists, particularly the word \"qualche\", which in modern language should be translated as \"a few\" but can also mean \"any\". According to non-restitutionalists, further evidence that the removal of the sculptures by Elgin was approved by the Ottoman authorities is shown by a second firman which was required for the shipping of the marbles from the Piraeus.\n\nMany have questioned the legality of Elgin's actions, including the legitimacy of the documentation purportedly authorising them. A study by Professor David Rudenstine of the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law concluded that the premise that Elgin obtained legal title to the marbles, which he then transferred to the British government, \"is certainly not established and may well be false\". Rudenstine's argumentation is partly based on a translation discrepancy he noticed between the surviving Italian document and the English text submitted by Hunt to the parliamentary committee. The text from the committee report reads \"We therefore have written this Letter to you, and expedited it by Mr. Philip Hunt, an English Gentleman, Secretary of the aforesaid Ambassador\" but according to the St. Clair Italian document the actual wording is \"We therefore have written this letter to you and expedited it by N.N.\". In Rudenstine's view, this substitution of \"Mr. Philip Hunt\" with the initials \"N.N.\" can hardly be a simple mistake. He further argues that the document was presented after the committee's insistence that some form of Ottoman written authorisation for the removal of the marbles be provided, a fact known to Hunt by the time he testified. Thus, according to Rudenstine, \"Hunt put himself in a position in which he could simultaneously vouch for the authenticity of the document and explain why he alone had a copy of it fifteen years after he surrendered the original to Ottoman officials in Athens\". On two earlier occasions, Elgin stated that the Ottomans gave him written permissions more than once, but that he had \"retained none of them.\" Hunt testified on March 13, and one of the questions asked was \"Did you ever see any of the written permissions which were granted to [Lord Elgin] for removing the Marbles from the Temple of Minerva?\" to which Hunt answered \"yes\", adding that he possessed an Italian translation of the original firman. Nonetheless, he did not explain why he had retained the translation for 15 years, whereas Elgin, who had testified two weeks earlier, knew nothing about the existence of any such document.\n\nEnglish travel writer Edward Daniel Clarke, an eyewitness, wrote that the Dizdar, the Ottoman fortress commander on the scene, attempted to stop the removal of the metopes but was bribed to allow it to continue. \nIn contrast, John Merryman, Sweitzer Professor of Law at Stanford Law School and also Professor of Art at Stanford University, putting aside the discrepancy presented by Rudenstine, argues that since the Ottomans had controlled Athens since 1460, their claims to the artefacts were legal and recognisable. The Ottoman sultan was grateful to the British for repelling Napoleonic expansion, and the Parthenon marbles had no sentimental value to him. Further, that written permission exists in the form of the firman, which is the most formal kind of permission available from that government, and that Elgin had further permission to export the marbles, legalises his (and therefore the British Museum's) claim to the Marbles. He does note, though, that the clause concerning the extent of Ottoman authorisation to remove the marbles \"is at best ambiguous\", adding that the document \"provides slender authority for the massive removals from the Parthenon ... The reference to 'taking away any pieces of stone' seems incidental, intended to apply to objects found while excavating. That was certainly the interpretation privately placed on the firman by several of the Elgin party, including Lady Elgin. Publicly, however, a different attitude was taken, and the work of dismantling the sculptures on the Parthenon and packing them for shipment to England began in earnest. In the process, Elgin's party damaged the structure, leaving the Parthenon not only denuded of its sculptures but further ruined by the process of removal. It is certainly arguable that Elgin exceeded the authority granted in the firman in both respects\".\n\nThe issue of firmans of this nature, along with universally required bribes, was not unusual at this time: In 1801 for example, Edward Clarke and his assistant Cripps, obtained an authorisation from the governor of Athens for the removal of a statue of the goddess Demeter which was at Eleusis, with the intervention of Italian artist Giovanni Battista Lusieri who was Lord Elgin's assistant at the time. Prior to Clarke, the statue had been discovered in 1676 by the traveller George Wheler, and since then several ambassadors had submitted unsuccessful applications for its removal, but Clarke had been the one to remove the statue by force, after bribing the \"waiwode\" of Athens and obtaining a firman, despite the objections and a riot, of the local population who unofficially, and against the traditions of the iconoclastic Church, worshiped the statue as the uncanonised Saint Demetra (Greek: Αγία Δήμητρα). The people would adorn the statue with garlands, and believed that the goddess was able to bring fertility to their fields and that the removal of the statue would cause that benefit to disappear. Clarke also removed other marbles from Greece such as a statue of Pan, a figure of Eros, a comic mask, various reliefs and funerary steles, amongst others. Clarke donated these to the University of Cambridge and subsequently in 1803 the statue of Demeter was displayed at the university library. The collection was later moved to the Fitzwilliam Museum in Cambridge where it formed one of the two main collections of the institution.\n\nWhen the marbles were shipped to England, they were \"an instant success among many\" who admired the sculptures and supported their arrival, but both the sculptures and Elgin also received criticism from detractors. Lord Elgin began negotiations for the sale of the collection to the British Museum in 1811, but negotiations failed despite the support of British artists after the government showed little interest. Many Britons opposed purchase of the statues because they were in bad condition and therefore did not display the \"ideal beauty\" found in other sculpture collections. The following years marked an increased interest in classical Greece, and in June 1816, after parliamentary hearings, the House of Commons offered £35,000 in exchange for the sculptures. Even at the time the acquisition inspired much debate, although it was supported by \"many persuasive calls\" for the purchase.\n\nLord Byron strongly objected to the removal of the marbles from Greece, denouncing Elgin as a vandal. His point of view about the removal of the Marbles from Athens is also mentioned in his narrative poem \"Childe Harold's Pilgrimage\", published in 1812, which itself was largely inspired by Byron's travels around the Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea between 1809 and 1811:\n\nByron was not the only one to protest against the removal at the time:\n\nEdward Daniel Clarke witnessed the removal of the metopes and called the action a \"spoliation\", writing that \"thus the form of the temple has sustained a greater injury than it had already experienced from the Venetian artillery,\" and that \"neither was there a workman employed in the undertaking ... who did not express his concern that such havoc should be deemed necessary, after moulds and casts had been already made of all the sculpture which it was designed to remove.\" When Sir Francis Ronalds visited Athens and Giovanni Battista Lusieri in 1820, he wrote that \"If Lord Elgin had possessed real taste in lieu of a covetous spirit he would have done just the reverse of what he has, he would have removed the rubbish and left the antiquities.\"\n\nA parliamentary committee investigating the situation concluded that the monuments were best given \"asylum\" under a \"free government\" such as the British one. In 1810, Elgin published a defence of his actions, but the subject remained controversial. John Keats viewed them in 1817 when they were exhibited in the British Museum, hence his famous sonnet about the marbles titled \"On Seeing the Elgin Marbles\". Notable supporters of Elgin included the painter Benjamin Robert Haydon.\n\nA public debate in Parliament followed Elgin's publication, and Parliament again exonerated Elgin's actions. Parliament decided to purchase the marbles for the \"British nation\" in 1816 by a vote of 82–30 for £35,000. They were deposited in the British Museum, where they were displayed in the Elgin Saloon (constructed in 1832), until the Duveen Gallery was completed in 1939. Crowds packed the British Museum to view the sculptures, setting attendance records for the museum. William Wordsworth viewed the marbles at the museum and commented favourably on their aesthetics.\n\nPrior damage to the marbles was sustained during successive wars, and it was during such conflicts that the Parthenon and its artwork sustained, by far, the most extensive damage. In particular, an explosion ignited by Venetian gun and cannon-fire bombardment in 1687, whilst the Parthenon was used as a munitions store during the Ottoman rule, destroyed or damaged many pieces of Parthenon art, including some of that later taken by Lord Elgin. It was this explosion that sent the marble roof, most of the cella walls, 14 columns from the north and south peristyles, and carved metopes and frieze blocks flying and crashing to the ground, destroying much of the artwork. Further damage to the Parthenon's artwork occurred when the Venetian general Francesco Morosini looted the site of its larger sculptures. The tackle he was using to remove the sculptures proved to be faulty and snapped, dropping an over-life-sized sculpture of Poseidon and the horses of Athena's chariot from the west pediment on to the rock of the Acropolis below.\n\nThe Erechtheion was used as a munitions store by the Ottomans during the Greek War of Independence (1821–1833) which ended the 355-year Ottoman rule of Athens. The Acropolis was besieged twice during the war, first by the Greeks in 1821–22 and then by the Ottoman forces in 1826–27. During the first siege the besieged Ottoman forces attempted to melt the lead in the columns to cast bullets, even prompting the Greeks to offer their own bullets to the Ottomans in order to minimize damage.\n\nElgin consulted with Italian sculptor Antonio Canova in 1803 about how best to restore the marbles. Canova was considered by some to be the world's best sculptural restorer of the time; Elgin wrote that Canova declined to work on the marbles for fear of damaging them further.\n\nTo facilitate transport by Elgin, the columns' capitals and many metopes and frieze slabs were either hacked off the main structure or sawn and sliced into smaller sections, causing irreparable damage to the Parthenon itself. One shipload of marbles on board the British brig \"Mentor\" was caught in a storm off Cape Matapan in southern Greece and sank near Kythera, but was salvaged at the Earl's personal expense; it took two years to bring them to the surface.\n\nThe artefacts held in London suffered from 19th-century pollution which persisted until the mid-20th century and have suffered irreparable damage by previous cleaning methods employed by British Museum staff.\n\nAs early as 1838, scientist Michael Faraday was asked to provide a solution to the problem of the deteriorating surface of the marbles. The outcome is described in the following excerpt from the letter he sent to Henry Milman, a commissioner for the National Gallery.\n\nThe marbles generally were very dirty ... from a deposit of dust and soot. ... I found the body of the marble beneath the surface white. ... The application of water, applied by a sponge or soft cloth, removed the coarsest dirt. ... The use of fine, gritty powder, with the water and rubbing, though it more quickly removed the upper dirt, left much embedded in the cellular surface of the marble. I then applied alkalies, both carbonated and caustic; these quickened the loosening of the surface dirt ... but they fell far short of restoring the marble surface to its proper hue and state of cleanliness. I finally used dilute nitric acid, and even this failed. ... The examination has made me despair of the possibility of presenting the marbles in the British Museum in that state of purity and whiteness which they originally possessed.\n\nA further effort to clean the marbles ensued in 1858. Richard Westmacott, who was appointed superintendent of the \"moving and cleaning the sculptures\" in 1857, in a letter approved by the British Museum Standing Committee on 13 March 1858 concluded\n\nI think it my duty to say that some of the works are much damaged by ignorant or careless moulding – with oil and lard – and by restorations in wax and resin. These mistakes have caused discolouration. I shall endeavour to remedy this without, however, having recourse to any composition that can injure the surface of the marble.\nYet another effort to clean the marbles occurred in 1937–38. This time the incentive was provided by the construction of a new Gallery to house the collection. The Pentelic marble mined from Mount Pentelicus north of Athens, from which the sculptures are made, naturally acquires a tan colour similar to honey when exposed to air; this colouring is often known as the marble's \"patina\" but Lord Duveen, who financed the whole undertaking, acting under the misconception that the marbles were originally white probably arranged for the team of masons working in the project to remove discolouration from some of the sculptures. The tools used were seven scrapers, one chisel and a piece of carborundum stone. They are now deposited in the British Museum's Department of Preservation. The cleaning process scraped away some of the detailed tone of many carvings. According to Harold Plenderleith, the surface removed in some places may have been as much as one-tenth of an inch (2.5 mm).\n\nThe British Museum has responded with the statement that \"mistakes were made at that time.\" On another occasion it was said that \"the damage had been exaggerated for political reasons\" and that \"the Greeks were guilty of excessive cleaning of the marbles before they were brought to Britain.\" During the international symposium on the cleaning of the marbles, organised by the British Museum in 1999, curator Ian Jenkins, deputy keeper of Greek and Roman antiquities, remarked that \"The British Museum is not infallible, it is not the Pope. Its history has been a series of good intentions marred by the occasional cock-up, and the 1930s cleaning was such a cock-up\". Nonetheless, he claimed that the prime cause for the damage inflicted upon the marbles was the 2000-year-long weathering on the Acropolis.\n\nAmerican archeologist Dorothy King, in a newspaper article, wrote that techniques similar to the ones used in 1937–38 were applied by Greeks as well in more recent decades than the British, and maintained that Italians still find them acceptable. The British Museum said that a similar cleaning of the Temple of Hephaestus in the Athenian Agora was carried out by the conservation team of the American School of Classical Studies at Athens in 1953 using steel chisels and brass wire. According to the Greek ministry of Culture, the cleaning was carefully limited to surface salt crusts. The 1953 American report concluded that the techniques applied were aimed at removing the black deposit formed by rain-water and \"brought out the high technical quality of the carving\" revealing at the same time \"a few surviving particles of colour\".\n\nDocuments released by the British Museum under the Freedom of Information Act revealed that a series of minor accidents, thefts and acts of vandalism by visitors have inflicted further damage to the sculptures. This includes an incident in 1961 when two schoolboys knocked off a part of a centaur's leg. In June 1981, a west pediment figure was slightly chipped by a falling glass skylight, and in 1966 four shallow lines were scratched on the back of one of the figures by vandals. In 1970 letters were scratched on to the upper right thigh of another figure. Four years later, the dowel hole in a centaur's hoof was damaged by thieves trying to extract pieces of lead.\n\nAir pollution and acid rain have damaged the marble and stonework. The last remaining slabs from the western section of the Parthenon frieze were removed from the monument in 1993 for fear of further damage. They have now been transported to the New Acropolis Museum.\n\nUntil cleaning of the remaining marbles was completed in 2005, black crusts and coatings were present on the marble surface. The laser technique applied on the 14 slabs that Elgin did not remove revealed a surprising array of original details, such as the original chisel marks and the veins on the horses' bellies. Similar features in the British Museum collection have been scraped and scrubbed with chisels to make the marbles look white. Between January 20 and the end of March 2008, 4200 items (sculptures, inscriptions small terracotta objects), including some 80 artefacts dismantled from the monuments in recent years, were removed from the old museum on the Acropolis to the new Parthenon Museum. Natural disasters have also affected the Parthenon. In 1981, an earthquake caused damage to the east façade.\n\nSince 1975, Greece has been restoring the Acropolis. This restoration has included replacing the thousands of rusting iron clamps and supports that had previously been used, with non-corrosive titanium rods; removing surviving artwork from the building into storage and subsequently into a new museum built specifically for the display of the Parthenon art; and replacing the artwork with high-quality replicas. This process has come under fire from some groups as some buildings have been completely dismantled, including the dismantling of the Temple of Athena Nike and for the unsightly nature of the site due to the necessary cranes and scaffolding. But the hope is to restore the site to some of its former glory, which may take another 20 years and 70 million euros, though the prospect of the Acropolis being \"able to withstand the most extreme weather conditions – earthquakes\" is \"little consolation to the tourists visiting the Acropolis\" according to \"The Guardian\". Under continuous international pressure, Directors of the British Museum have not ruled out agreeing to what they call a \"temporary\" loan to the new museum, but state that it would be under the condition of Greece acknowledging the British Museum's claims to ownership.\n\nThose arguing for the Marbles' return claim legal, moral and artistic grounds. Their arguments include:\n\n\nA range of different arguments have been presented by scholars, British political leaders and British Museum spokespersons over the years in defence of retention of the Elgin Marbles by the British Museum. The main points include:\nThe last was tested in the English High Court in May 2005 in relation to Nazi-looted Old Master artworks held at the British Museum, which the Museum's Trustees wished to return to the family of the original owner; the Court found that due to the British Museum Act 1963 these works could not be returned without further legislation. The judge, Mr Justice Morritt, found that the Act, which protects the collections for posterity, could not be overridden by a \"moral obligation\" to return works, even if they are believed to have been plundered. It has been argued, however, that the case was not directly relevant to the Elgin Marbles, as it was about a transfer of ownership, and not the loan of artefacts for public exhibition overseas, which is provided for in the 1963 Act. \n\nAnother argument for keeping the Elgin Marbles within the UK has been made by J. H. Merryman, Sweitzer Professor of Law at Stanford University and co-operating professor in the Stanford Art Department. He has argued that\nthe Marbles are now established as a significant element of Britain's own cultural history, as \"the Elgin Marbles have been in England since 1821 and in that time have become a part of the British cultural heritage.\"\nHe has also argued that if the Parthenon were actually being restored, there would be a moral argument for returning the Marbles to the temple whence they came, and thus restoring its integrity. \"The Guardian\" has written that many among those who support repatriation imply that the marbles would be displayed in their original position on the Parthenon. However, the Greek plan is to transfer them from a museum in London to one in Athens. These arguments are perhaps complicated a little by the completion of the new Acropolis Museum in 2009, where the\nhalf not removed by Elgin is now displayed, aligned in orientation and within sight of the Parthenon, \nwith the position of the missing elements clearly marked and space left should they be returned to Athens.\n\nOutside Greece a campaign for the Return of the Marbles began in 1981 with the formation of the \"International Organising Committee - Australia - for the Restitution of the Parthenon Marbles, and in 1983 with the formation of the \"\"British Committee for the Reunification of the Parthenon Marbles\". International organisations such as UNESCO and the International Association for the Reunification of the Parthenon Sculptures, as well as campaign groups such as, Marbles Reunited, and stars of Hollywood, such as George Clooney and Matt Damon, as well as Human Rights activists, lawyers, and the people of the arts, voiced their strong support for the return of the Elgin Marbles to Greece.\n\nAmerican actor George Clooney voiced his support for the return by the United Kingdom and reunification of the Parthenon Marbles in Greece, during his promotional campaign for his 2014 film \"The Monuments Men\" which retells the story of Allied efforts to save important masterpieces of art and other culturally important items before their destruction by Hitler and the Nazis during World War II. His remarks regarding the Marbles reignited the debate in the United Kingdom about their return to their home country. Public polls were also carried out by newspapers in response to Clooney's stance on this matter.\n\nAn internet campaign site, in part sponsored by Metaxa, aims to consolidate support for the return of the Elgin Marbles to the New Acropolis Museum in Athens.\n\nNoted public intellectual Christopher Hitchens had, at numerous times, argued for their repatriation.\n\nIn BBC TV Series \"QI\" (S12E07XL), host Stephen Fry provided his support for the return of the Elgin Marbles while recounting the story of the Greeks giving lead shot to their Ottoman Empire enemies, as the Ottomans were running out of ammunition, in order to prevent damage to the Acropolis. Fry had previously written a blog post along much the same lines in December 2011 entitled \"A Modest Proposal\", signing off with \"It's time we lost our marbles\".\n\nA YouGov poll in 2014 suggested that more British people (37%) supported the marbles' restoration to Greece than opposed it (23%).\n\nIn older polls, Ipsos MORI asked in 1998, \"If there were a referendum on whether or not the Elgin Marbles should be returned to Greece, how would you vote?\" This returned these values from the British general adult population:\n\nAnother opinion poll in 2002 (again carried out by MORI) showed similar results, with 40% of the British public in favour of returning the marbles to Greece, 16% in favour of keeping them within Britain and the remainder either having no opinion or would not vote. When asked how they would vote if a number of conditions were met (including, but not limited to, a long-term loan whereby the British maintained ownership and joint control over maintenance) the number responding in favour of return increased to 56% and those in favour of keeping them dropped to 7%.\n\nBoth MORI poll results have been characterised by proponents of the return of the Marbles to Greece as representing a groundswell of public opinion supporting return, since the proportion explicitly supporting return to Greece significantly exceeds the number who are explicitly in favour of keeping the Marbles at the British Museum.\n\nThe remainder of the surviving sculptures that are not in museums or storerooms in Athens are held in museums in various locations across Europe. The British Museum also holds additional fragments from the Parthenon sculptures acquired from various collections that have no connection with Lord Elgin.\n\nThe collection held in the British Museum includes the following material from the Acropolis:\n\nThe British Museum lent the figure of a river-god, possibly the river Ilissos,\nto the State Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg to celebrate its 250th\nanniversary. It was on display there from Saturday 6 December 2014 until Sunday 18 January 2015.\nThis was the first time the British Museum had lent part of its Elgin Marbles collection and it caused considerable\ncontroversy.\n\nIn a 2018 interview to the Athens newspaper Ta Nea, quoted later in The Independent, the British Labour party leader Jeremy Corbyn vowed to return the Marbles to Greece, stating\n\n\"As with anything stolen or taken from occupied or colonial possession – including artefacts looted from other countries in the past – we should be engaged in constructive talks with the Greek government about returning the sculptures.\"\n\nFollowing the 2016 United Kingdom European Union membership referendum, it has been suggested that the United Kingdom may be forced to return the marbles to Greece as a precondition for an agreement on Brexit, as any agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom has to be approved by European Union member Greece.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2807856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2807856", "title": "English-language vowel changes before historic /l/", "text": "English-language vowel changes before historic /l/\n\nIn the history of English phonology, there have been many diachronic sound changes affecting vowels, especially involving phonemic splits and mergers. A number of these changes are specific to vowels which occur before .\n\nDiphthongization occurred since Early Modern English in certain \"-al-\" and \"-ol-\" sequences before coronal or velar consonants, or at the end of a word or morpheme. In these sequences, became and then , while became and then . Both of these merged with existing diphthongs: as in \"law\" and as in \"throw\".\n\nAt the end of a word or morpheme, this produced \"all\", \"ball\", \"call\", \"fall\", \"gall\", \"hall\", \"mall\", \"small\", \"squall\", \"stall\", \"pall\", \"tall\", \"thrall\", \"wall\", \"control\", \"droll\", \"extol\", \"knoll\", \"poll\", \"roll\", \"scroll\", \"stroll\", \"swollen\", \"toll\", and \"troll\". The word \"shall\" did not follow this trend, and remains today.\n\nBefore coronal consonants, this produced \"Alderney\", \"alter\", \"bald\", \"balderdash\", \"false\", \"falter\", \"halt\", \"malt\", \"palsy\", \"salt\", \"Wald\", \"Walter\", \"bold\", \"cold\", \"fold\", \"gold\", \"hold\", \"molten\", \"mould/mold\", \"old\", \"shoulder\" (earlier \"sholder\"), \"smolder\", \"told\", and \"wold\" (in the sense of \"tract of land\"). As with \"shall\", the word \"shalt\" did not follow this trend, and remains today.\n\nBefore , this produced \"balk\", \"caulk/calk\", \"chalk\", \"Dundalk\", \"falcon\", \"stalk\", \"talk\", \"walk\", \"folk\", \"Polk\", and \"yolk\".\n\nThis L-vocalization established a pattern that would influence the spelling pronunciations of some relatively more recent loanwords like \"Balt\", \"Malta\", \"waltz\", \"Yalta\", and \"polder\". It also influenced English spelling reform efforts, explaining the American English \"mold\" and \"molt\" vs. the traditional \"mould\" and \"moult\".\n\nCertain words of more recent origin or coining, however, do not have the change and retain short vowels, including \"Al\", \"alcohol\", \"bal\", \"Cal\", \"calcium\", \"gal\", \"Hal\", \"mal-\", \"pal\", \"Sal\", \"talc\", \"Val\", \"doll\", \"Moll\", and \"Poll\".\n\nIn most circumstances, the changes stopped there. But in \"-alk\" and \"-olk\" words, the disappeared entirely in most accents (with the notable exception of Hiberno-English). This change caused to become , and to become . Even outside Ireland, some of these words have more than one pronunciation that retains the sound, especially in American English where spelling pronunciations caused partial or full reversal of L-vocalization in a handful of cases:\n\nWords like \"fault\" and \"vault\" did not undergo L-vocalization, but rather L-restoration, having previously been L-vocalized independently in Old French and lacking the in Middle English, but having it restored by Early Modern English. The word \"falcon\" existed simultaneously as homonyms \"fauco(u)n\" and \"falcon\" in Middle English. The word \"moult/molt\" never originally had to begin with, instead deriving from Middle English \"mout\" and related etymologically to \"mutate\"; the joined the word intrusively.\n\nThe Great Vowel Shift changed the diphthongs to their present pronunciations, with becoming the monophthong , and raising to .\n\nThe loss of in words spelt with \"-alf\", \"-alm\", \"-alve\" and \"-olm\" did not involve L-vocalization in the same sense, but rather the elision of the consonant and usually the compensatory lengthening of the vowel.\n\nSome words such as \"salt\" that traditionally had /ɔːl/ for most RP speakers have alternative pronunciations with /ɒl/ that are used more frequently by younger British English speakers. This variation between /ɔːl/ and /ɒl/ occurs primarily before voiceless consonants, as in \"salt,\" \"false\" and \"alter,\" although it may also occur less commonly in words such as \"scald\" where the /l/ comes before a voiced consonant. In England, this laxing before /l/ was traditionally associated with the north but has in recent decades become more widespread, including among younger speakers of RP.\n\nMore extensive L-vocalization is a notable feature of certain dialects of English, including Cockney, Estuary English, New York English, New Zealand English, Pittsburgh and Philadelphia English, in which an sound occurring at the end of a word or before a consonant is pronounced as some sort of close back vocoid, e.g., , or . The resulting sound may not always be rounded. The precise phonetic quality varies. It can be heard occasionally in the dialect of the English East Midlands, where words ending in -old can be pronounced . KM Petyt (1985) noted this feature in the traditional dialect of West Yorkshire but said it has died out. However, in recent decades l-vocalization has been spreading outwards from London and the south east, John C Wells argued that it is probable that it will become the standard pronunciation in England over the next one hundred years, an idea which Petyt criticised in a book review.\n\nIn Cockney, Estuary English and New Zealand English, l-vocalization can be accompanied by phonemic mergers of vowels before the vocalized , so that \"real\", \"reel\" and \"rill\", which are distinct in most dialects of English, are homophones as .\n\nGraham Shorrocks noted extensive L-vocalisation in the dialect of Bolton, Greater Manchester and commented, \"many, perhaps, associate such a quality more with Southern dialects, than with Lancashire/Greater Manchester.\"\n\nIn the accent of Bristol, syllabic can be vocalized to , resulting in pronunciations like (for \"bottle\"). By hypercorrection, however, some words originally ending in were given an : the original name of the town was \"Bristow\", but this has been altered by hypercorrection to \"Bristol\".\n\nAfrican-American English (AAE) dialects may have L-vocalization as well. However, in these dialects, it may be omitted altogether (e.g. fool becomes . Some English speakers from San Francisco - particularly those of Asian ancestry - also vocalize or omit .\n\nThe salary–celery\" merger is a conditioned merger of (as in \"bat\") and (as in \"bet\") when they occur before , thus making \"salary\" and \"celery\" homophones. The merger is not well studied. It is referred to in various sociolinguistic publications, but usually only as a small section of the larger change undergone by vowels preceding in articles about \"l\"-vocalization.\n\nThis merger has been detected in the English spoken in New Zealand and in Wangaratta, Victoria, Australia. In varieties with the merger, \"salary\" and \"celery\" are both pronounced (Cox & Palethorpe, 2003).\n\nThe Cox and Palethorpe study presented at a 2003 conference tested just one group of speakers from Victoria: 13 fifteen-year-old girls from a Catholic girls' school in Wangaratta. Their pronunciations were compared with those of school girl groups in the towns of Temora, Junee and Wagga Wagga in New South Wales. In the study conducted by Cox and Palethorpe, the group in Wangaratta exhibited the merger while speakers in Temora, Junee and Wagga Wagga did not. In the same study Cox and Palethorpe note that \"There is no evidence in this data of raised /æ/ before /l/ as in 'Elbert' for 'Albert', a phenomenon that has been popularly suggested for Victorians.\"\n\nHorsfield (2001) investigates the effects of postvocalic on the preceding vowels in New Zealand English; her investigation covers all of the New Zealand English vowels and is not specifically tailored to studying mergers and neutralizations, but rather the broader change that occurs across the vowels. She has suggested that further research involving minimal pairs like \"telly\" and \"tally\", \"celery\" and \"salary\" should be done before any firm conclusions are drawn.\n\nA pilot study of the merger was done, which yielded perception and production data from a few New Zealand speakers. The results of the pilot survey suggested that although the merger was not found in the speech of all participants, those who produced a distinction between and also accurately perceived a difference between them; those who merged and were less able to accurately perceive the distinction. The finding has been interesting to some linguists because it concurs with the recent understanding that \"losing a distinction between two sounds involves losing the ability to produce it as well as to perceive it\" (Gordon 2002). However, due to the very small number of people participating in the study the results are not conclusive.\n\nThe \"fill–feel\" merger is a conditioned merger of the vowels and before that occurs in some dialects of American English. The heaviest concentration of the merger is found in, but not necessarily confined to Southern American English: in North Carolina, eastern Tennessee, northern Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana (but not New Orleans), and west-central Texas (Labov, Ash, and Boberg 2006: 69-73). This merger, like many other features of Southern American English, can also be found in AAE.\n\nThe same two regions show a closely related merger, namely the \"fell–fail\" merger of and before that occurs in some varieties of Southern American English making \"fell\" and \"fail\" homophones. In addition to North Carolina and Texas, these mergers are found sporadically in other Southern states and in the Midwest and West.\n\nThe \"full–fool\" merger is a conditioned merger of and before , making pairs like \"pull\"/\"pool\" and \"full\"/\"fool\" homophones. The main concentration of the \"pull–pool\" merger is in Western Pennsylvania English, centered around Pittsburgh. The merger is less consistently but still noticeably present in some speakers of surrounding Midland American English. \"The Atlas of North American English\" also reports this merger, or near-merger, scattered sporadically throughout Western American English, with particular prevalence in some speakers of urban Utahn, Californian, and New Mexican English. Accents with \"L\"-vocalization, such as New Zealand English, Estuary English and Cockney, may also have the \"full–fool\" merger in most cases, but when a suffix beginning with a vowel is appended, the distinction returns: Hence 'pull' and 'pool' are , but 'pulling' is whereas 'pooling' remains .\n\nThe \"fill–feel\" merger and \"full–fool\" merger are \"not\" unified in American English; they are found in different parts of the country, and very few people show either or both mergers.\n\nThe \"hull–hole\" merger is a conditioned merger of and before occurring for some speakers of English English with \"l\"-vocalization. As a result, \"hull\" and \"hole\" are homophones as . The merger is also mentioned by Labov, Ash, and Boberg (2006: 72) as a merger before in North American English that might require further study.\n\nThe \"doll–dole\" merger is a conditioned merger, for some Londoners, of and before word-final . As a result, \"doll\" and \"dole\" may become homophones. If the is morpheme-final, as in \"doll\"-\"dole\", the underlying vowel is still distinguished in derived forms such as \"dolling\"/\"doling\".\n\nWhere the is not word-final, however, the distinction is not recoverable. That may lead to \"sold\" having the same vowel sound as \"solve\" as well as hypercorrections such as for \"solve\" (RP ). There do not appear to be any minimal pairs in this environment since RP and are in more-or-less complementary distribution in stressed syllables, with before and (e.g. \"golf\", \"dolphin\", \"solve\", \"revolve\") and elsewhere (e.g. \"bolt\", \"polka\", \"gold\", \"soldier\", \"holster\").\n\nFor some English speakers in the UK, the vowels of \"goose\" and \"thought\" may be merged before dark syllable-final /l/. This neutralization has been found to exist for clusters of speakers in the southern UK, especially for speakers from areas of the south coast and the Greater London area.\n\nThe \"goat\" split is a process that has affected London dialects and Estuary English. In the first phase of the split, the diphthong of \"goat\" developed an allophone before \"dark\" (nonprevocalic) . Thus \"goal\" no longer had the same vowel as \"goat\" ( vs. ). In the second phase, the diphthong spread to other forms of affected words. For example, the realization of \"rolling\" changed from to on the model of \"roll\" . This led to the creation of a minimal pair for some speakers: \"wholly\" vs. \"holy\" and thus to phonemicization of the split.\n\nIn broad Cockney, the phonetic difference between the two phonemes may be rather small and they may be distinguished by nothing more than the openness of the first element, so that \"goat\" is pronounced whereas \"goal\" is pronounced .\n\nThe \"vile–vial\" merger is where the words in the \"vile\" set ending with (\"bile\", \"file\", \"guile\", \"I'll\", \"Kyle\", \"Lyle\", \"mile\", \"Nile\", \"pile\", \"rile\", \"smile\", \"stile\", \"style\", \"tile\", \"vile\", \"while\", \"wile\") rhyme with words in the \"vial\" set ending with (\"decrial\", \"denial\", \"dial\", \"espial\", \"Niall\", \"phial\", \"trial\", \"vial\", \"viol\"). This merger involves the dephonemicization of schwa that occurs after a vowel and before , causing the vowel- sequence to be pronounced as either one or two syllables.\n\nThis merger may also be encountered with other vowel rhymes too, including:\n\nFor many speakers, the vowels in \"cake\", \"meet\", \"vote\" and \"moot\" can become centering diphthongs before , leading to pronunciations like , , and for \"tail\", \"teal\", \"toll\" and \"tool\".\n\nLabov, Ash, and Boberg (2006:73) mention four mergers before that may be under way in some accents of North American English, and which require more study:\n\n"}
{"id": "43141101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43141101", "title": "European Glass Experience", "text": "European Glass Experience\n\nEuropean Glass Experience is a project coordinated by the City of Venice in collaboration with Consorzio Promovetro Murano and the Murano Glass Museum. It represents an international celebration of contemporary glass art and, most of all, of its makers.\n\nEGE was officially launched on September 11, 2013 during a press conference at Ca' Farsetti in Venice, and its aim is to valorise the glass art on a European level, and to promote the works of local and international young artists. European Glass Experience was established to reinforce glass production and to improve the artistic heritage of traditional glass working experience. The project has among its partners The Finnish Glass Museum, Riihimaki, Finland, and the Fundación Centro Nacional del Vidrio, La Granja de San Idelfonso, Segovia, Spain. Associated partners are the Glass Factory in Boda Glasbruk, Sweden, the Muzeum Witrazu (Stained Glass Museum) in Krakow, the International Festival of Glass in Stourbridge, England and the Glass Museum of Marinha Grande (Portugal). European Glass Experience project is co-financed by a prestigious two-year grant from the Culture Program 2007 – 2013 of the European Union. The project will last two years, and it is composed by an exhibition which will take place in three different museums, divided into two sections: 40 unreleased glass artworks and 20 sketches which will become artworks, realised by Promovetro’s Murano glass masters.\n\nThe exhibition began at The Finnish Glass Museum, Riihimaki, Finland, in March 2014, curated by Uta Laurén, and then continued to the Fundación Centro Nacional del Vidrio, Spain, under the directorship of Paloma Pastor. The final venue will be the Murano Glass Museum, directed by Chiara Squarcina in March 2015. Further additional venues, among the associated partners, will possibly follow. European Glass Experience team panel, made of museum directors, curators, and glass experts, selected nearly 80 sketches and artworks, coming from young artists of different cultures. Murano Glass masters associated with Promovetro are going to realize a selection of the most peculiar sketches in glass.\n\n\nPartners\n\nAssociated Partners\n"}
{"id": "21148859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21148859", "title": "Evidence-based medical ethics", "text": "Evidence-based medical ethics\n\nEvidence-based medical ethics is a form of medical ethics that uses knowledge from ethical principles, legal precedent, and evidence-based medicine to draw solutions to ethical dilemmas in the health care field. Sometimes this is also referred to as argument-based medical ethics. It is also the title of the book Evidence-Based Medical Ethics: Cases for Practice-Based Learning by Drs. John E. Snyder and Candace C. Gauthier, published by Humana-Springer Press in 2008 (). While seen as a promising new approach to bioethical problem solving by many, it has also been criticized for misrepresenting ethical problems as problems that can be solved by appeal to the evidence as the \"bottom line\".\n"}
{"id": "3743671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3743671", "title": "Fouke Monster", "text": "Fouke Monster\n\nIn Arkansas folklore, the Fouke Monster is said to have been seen in Fouke in Miller County, Arkansas, during the early 1970s. The creature was accused of attacking a local family. Initial sightings of the creature were concentrated in the Jonesville/Boggy Creek area, where it was blamed for the destruction of local livestock. Later, sightings were made several hundred miles to the north and the east of Fouke.\n\nThe creature was named by journalist Jim Powell, who reported on it for the \"Texarkana Gazette\" and the \"Texarkana Daily News\".\n\nVarious reports between 1971 and 1974 described the creature as being a large hominid-like creature covered in long dark hair, which was estimated to be about tall with a weight of . Witnesses said that its chest was about wide. Later reports, published during the early 1980s, claimed that it was far larger, with one report describing it as tall, with an estimated weight of .\n\nSome accounts describe the Fouke Monster as running swiftly with a galloping gait and swinging its arms in a fashion similar to a monkey. Reports also describe it as having a terrible odor, the odor being described as a combination of a skunk and a wet dog, and as having bright red eyes about the size of silver dollars.\n\nA variety of tracks and claw marks have been discovered which are claimed to belong to the creature. One set of foot prints reportedly measured in length and wide, while another appeared to show that the creature only had three toes.\n\nThe first reported sightings were in 1953, and in 1955 when it was spotted by a 14-year-old boy. The boy described it as having reddish brown hair, sniffed the air, and did not react when it was fired upon with birdshot. Investigator Joe Nickell observes that the description is consistent with a misidentified black bear (\"Ursus americanus\").\n\nAlthough most cases date from the early 1970s onwards, Fouke residents claim that an ape-like creature had roamed the area since 1964, but those sightings had not been reported to news services. Local legend also holds that the creature can be further traced back to sightings in 1946. Most early sightings were in the region of Jonesville. Owing to this, the creature was known as the \"Jonesville Monster\" during this period.\n\nPrior to the 20th century reports, several reports in the general area have been tied to the Fouke Monster. The two most widely circulated reports focus on an 1851 report in the \"Memphis Enquirer\", and an 1856 report in the \"Caddo Gazette\".\n\nDespite claims of earlier sightings, the Fouke Monster first made headlines in 1971, when it was reported to have attacked the home of Bobby and Elizabeth Ford late on the night of May 2. \n\nAccording to Elizabeth Ford, the creature, which she initially took to be a bear, reached through a screen window while she was sleeping on a couch. It was chased away by her husband and his brother Don, who weresuffering from mild shock when he arrived.\n\nDuring the encounters, the Fords fired several shots at the creature and believed that they had hit it, though no traces of blood were found. An extensive search of the area failed to locate the creature, but three-toed footprints were found close to the house, scratch marks on the porch, and some damage to a window and the house's siding.\n\nAccording to the Fords, they had heard something moving around outside late at night several nights before their encounter but, having lived in the house for less than a week, had never encountered the creature before.\n\nThe creature was spotted again on May 23, 1971, when three people, D. C. Woods, Jr., Wilma Woods, and Mrs. R. H. Sedgass, reported seeing an ape-like creature crossing U.S. Highway 71. More sightings were made over the following months by local residents and tourists, who found additional footprints. The best known footprints were found in a soybean field belonging to local filling station owner Scott Keith. They were scrutinized by game warden Carl Galyon, who was unable to confirm their authenticity. Like the Ford prints, they appeared to indicate that the creature had only three toes.\n\nThe creature began to attract substantial interest during the early 1970s. Soon after news spread about the Ford sighting, the Little Rock, Arkansas, radio station KAAY posted a $1,090 bounty on the creature. Several attempts were made to track the creature with dogs, but they were unable to follow its scent. When hunters began to take interest in the Fouke Monster, Miller County Sheriff Leslie Greer was forced to put a temporary \"no guns\" policy in place in order to preserve public safety. In 1971, three people were fined $59 each \"for filing a fraudulent monster report.\"\n\nAfter an initial surge of attention, public interest in the creature decreased until 1973. It was boosted significantly when Charles B. Pierce released a documentary-style horror feature on the creature in 1972, \"The Legend of Boggy Creek\". By late 1974, interest had waned again and sightings all but stopped, only to begin again in March 1978 when tracks were reportedly found by two brothers prospecting in Russellville, Arkansas. There were also sightings in Center Ridge, Arkansas. On June 26 of that same year, a sighting was reported in Crossett, Arkansas.\n\nDuring this period the creature was blamed for missing livestock and attacks on several dogs.\n\nSince the initial clusters of sightings during the 1970s, there have been sporadic reports of the creature. In 1991 the creature was reportedly seen jumping from a bridge. There were forty reported sightings in 1997 and, in 1998, the creature was reportedly sighted in a dry creek bed south of Fouke.\n\nMore recent sightings from 2000–2010 were brought to light by Lyle Blackburn's 2012 book, \"The Beast of Boggy Creek: The True Story of the Fouke Monster\". In one case, a married couple saw a large, hairy bipedal creature run across a county road near Fouke in 2010.\n\nOne month after the Ford sighting, Southern State College (currently known as Southern Arkansas University) archaeologist Dr. Frank Schambach determined that \"There is a 99 percent chance the tracks are a hoax.\"\n\nAccording to Schambach, the tracks could not be from a species of ape, as claimed by witnesses, because they were from a three-toed creature, whereas all primates, including hominids, have had five toes. In addition to the number of toes, Schambach cited several other anomalies as part of his conclusion: the region had no history of primate activity, ruling out the possibility of the creature being the remnants of an indigenous species; all primates are completely diurnal, the Fouke Monster appeared to be partially nocturnal.\n\nBy 1986, the mayor of Fouke, Virgil Roberts, and former Miller County Sheriff Leslie Greer, were of the opinion that the alleged Fouke Monster tracks were man-made. Greer's working colleague at that time, Chief Deputy H. L. Phillips, said that he had not taken calls regarding the monster in years. Personally, he does not believe the creature exists. \"...I don't believe in it. But I'd say you don't argue with people who say they've seen it. Many were respectable and responsible folks,\" Phillips said.\n\nThe Skeptoid podcast concludes \"So in total, every last shred of evidence that the Fouke Monster exists at all is anecdotal. Not a single piece is testable. The Fouke Monster fits very poorly with the model of a living animal, but fits very well with a local legend.\"\n\nThis is Lyle Blackburn's comprehensive guide to the Fouke Monster. The book covers the history of the Fouke Monster and the making of the 1972 horror docudrama, \"The Legend of Boggy Creek\", including information on little-known reports since the 1980s.\n\nThe story of Bobby Ford's encounter with the Fouke Monster was the subject of a 1972 semi-factual, documentary-style horror feature, \"The Legend of Boggy Creek\" (initially titled \"Tracking the Fouke Monster\"), which played in movie and drive-in theaters around the country. It was written by Earl E. Smith and directed by Charles B. Pierce. The part of Bobby Ford was played by Glenn Carruth and the part of Elizabeth Ford was played by Bunny Dees. Fouke Garage owner Willie E. Smith, on whose land three-toed footprints were found, starred as himself. Many characters were named after the people who played them. Much of the film was shot on location in Fouke and nearby Texarkana, though some scenes also were filmed in Shreveport, Louisiana. Most of the cast were local people or Texarkana college students. The film is believed to have cost $160,000 to make. It grossed $20 million at the box office.\n\nA second Fouke Monster film, \"Return to Boggy Creek\", was filmed and released in 1977. The movie had an entirely fictional plot and was not intended to be a sequel. It was directed by Tom Moore, written by John David Woody, and starred Dawn Wells as the mother of three children who become lost in the swamp. Some of the film's scenes were shot on location in Dallas, Texas, and Loreauville and Iberia Parish, Louisiana.\n\nOriginally titled \"The Barbaric Beast of Boggy Creek, Part II\", the third Fouke Monster film was written as a sequel to the original film. Charles B. Pierce wrote, directed, and played the role of Brian Lockart, a University of Arkansas professor who leads a group of students into the swamps around Fouke. The film was shot on location in Fouke but included some scenes shot at the University of Arkansas.\n\nIn 1999, \"Boggy Creek II: And The Legend Continues\" was lampooned in an episode of \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\".\n\n\"Boggy Creek: The Legend Is True\" was released to home video in 2011. Early buzz suggested that the film, directed by Brian T. Jaynes, was to be a remake of Charles B. Pierce's original 1972 film. However, it is an unrelated story set in the fictional town of Boggy Creek, Texas. Even so, the film obviously draws influence from Pierce's film with its small-town setting and use of spooky swampscapes for this Southern Sasquatch horror slasher.\n\nThis low-budget indie film was originally released in 2009 under the title \"The Skunkape Story\", but was later re-edited and released to home video in 2011 as \"The Legacy of Boggy Creek\". The docudrama chronicles the events that began after the original attacks in Fouke. It was written and directed by Dustin Ferguson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54561169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54561169", "title": "Gwaebul", "text": "Gwaebul\n\nGwaebul (괘불), meaning \"Large Buddhist Banner Painting,\" are extremely large-scale Buddhist scroll paintings found throughout Korea. They are fairly rare, and only 53 were studied between 1986 and 2001. The paintings are typically brought out only rarely for special festivals or holidays such as Buddha's Birthday or Gwaebul Festivals when they are unrolled and hung from tall poles in the temple courtyard. When not in use, \"gwaebul\" are stored un a box behind the altar in a temple hall.\n\nOf the known \"gwaebul,\" seven have been designated as National Treasures, 47 as Treasures, and eight as Registered Cultural Heritage objects.\n"}
{"id": "2810935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2810935", "title": "Hermann Gunkel", "text": "Hermann Gunkel\n\nHermann Gunkel (23 May 1862 – 11 March 1932), a German Old Testament scholar, founded form criticism. He also became a leading representative of the history of religions school. His major works cover Genesis and the Psalms, and his major interests centered on the oral tradition behind written sources and in folklore.\n\nGunkel was born in Springe, Kingdom of Hanover, where his father and grandfather were Lutheran pastors. He studied at the University of Göttingen and the University of Giessen. He eventually taught at both universities in addition to those of Berlin and Halle.\n\nGunkel started his career in New Testament studies at Göttingen in 1888. However, he was soon transferred to Halle (1889-1894) and told to concentrate on the Hebrew Bible by the Prussian academic appointments authority. He went on to teach in Berlin (1894-1907), where he made many inter-disciplinary contacts. His 1895 book, \"Creation and Chaos in the Primeval Era and the Eschaton\", compared the symbolism in Genesis and Revelation 12. In 1901, he produced the first of three editions of commentary on Genesis, \"Genesis Translated and Explained\".\n\nIn 1907, Gunkel finally obtained a full professorship at the University of Giessen. There he produced the third and final edition of \"Genesis\" in 1910 and \"The Prophets\" in 1917. He moved to the University of Halle-Wittenberg in 1920. He published another standard work, his commentary on the book of Psalms, \"The Psalms: Translated and Explained\" in 1926. \"Introduction to the Psalms\" was his last major project, brought to completion by his student Joachim Begrich in 1933.\n\nGunkel founded the series \"Research into the Religion and Literature of the Old and New Testaments\" (1903-) with Wilhelm Bousset. He also co-edited with Leopold Zscharnack the second edition of the German religious encyclopedia \"Religion in History and the Present\" (1927-1931), in which he authored over one hundred articles.\n\nGunkel became a leading representative of the \"history of religions school\" (\"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\"), which addressed the history of traditions behind the biblical text. In addition to Gunkel, the original group also included Albert Eichhorn, William Wrede, Heinrich Hackmann, Alfred Rahlfs, Johannes Weiss, Wilhelm Bousset, Ernst Troeltsch, and Wilhelm Heitmüller. Gunkel and the school thought that the oral traditions that form the origins of the Hebrew Bible were directly tied to other Near Eastern religions.\nGunkel arguably produced his most important work in his commentary on Genesis, published in three editions from 1901 to 1910. In these works he created the new critical methodology of form criticism (\"Formgeschichte\"). Form criticism examined the genres used in the biblical text to identify the \"Sitz im Leben\" (setting in life) that produced the text. This approach was based on the assumption that each genre is organically associated with a particular social and historical situation. Nineteenth-century source criticism had examined the biblical text, especially the Pentateuch, on the basis of style, vocabulary, theology, and other criteria to identify the basic literary sources used to create the text. Form criticism allowed scholars to go behind these larger literary sources by identifying the smaller and older sources used by their authors. Because of its utility, form criticism became immensely influential in Germany and Europe during the 20th century, with important scholars like Gerhard von Rad and Martin Noth applying and developing it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5873360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5873360", "title": "Jerome Silbergeld", "text": "Jerome Silbergeld\n\nJerome L. Silbergeld (born 25 April 1944 in Highland, Illinois) is an American scholar of Chinese art history. He was born in 1944 to Sabina and David Silbergeld. He received his B.A. from Stanford University in 1966 and completed an M.A. in American history there in 1967. In 1966 and 1967, he served as a United States Senate intern for Stuart Symington. He received a second M.A. in art history from the University of Oregon in 1972 and completed his Ph.D. in Chinese art history from Stanford University in 1974. \n\nSilbergeld is the P.Y. and Kinmay W. Tang Professor (Emeritus) of Chinese Art History at Princeton University and was the founding director of Princeton’s Tang Center for East Asian Art. He was formerly the chair of Art History and director of the School of Art and the University of Washington in Seattle, where he taught for twenty-five years. In 1996, he was a visiting professor at Harvard University. In 1999, he participated as a \"referee\" in The Metropolitan Museum of Art symposium \"Issues of Authenticity in Chinese Art,\" donning an actual referee's jersey and whistle. He is currently a visiting faculty member at the University of Oregon, and received the Ellis F. Lawrence Medal for distinguished alumni of its College of Design in 2016. \n\nHis research includes traditional and modern Chinese painting, cinema, and architecture and gardens. Among his book publications are \"Chinese Painting Style\" (1982); \"Mind Landscapes: The Paintings of C. C. Wang\" (1987); \"Contradictions: Artistic Life, the Socialist State, and the Chinese Painter Li Huasheng\" (1993); \"Hitchock with a Chinese Face\" (2004); \"Body in Question: Image and Illusion in Two Chinese Films by Director Jiang Wen\" (2008); and \"Outside In: Chinese x American x Contemporary x Art\" (2009); among his edited and co-edited publications is \"Bridges to Heaven: Essays in East Asian Art in Honor of Wen C. Fong\" (2 volumes, 2011). He has also published more than sixty articles, encyclopedia entries, and book reviews and co-authored the Encyclopædia Britannica entry on Chinese art. \n\nHe is married to Michelle DeKlyen, a clinical psychologist who focuses on early childhood development. They have two children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31435514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31435514", "title": "Kant-Studien", "text": "Kant-Studien\n\nKant-Studien (\"Kant Studies\") is a journal of philosophy, focusing on Immanuel Kant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50567344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50567344", "title": "Karloff (play)", "text": "Karloff (play)\n\nKarloff is a biographical one-man play about the life of film star Boris Karloff, written by Randy Bowser.\n\nUsing quotes from Boris Karloff, both humorous and serious, on a wide range of topics, the play is a jigsaw puzzle of brief, non-chronologically enacted events in the actor's life. The theme is self-realization. The subject is the art of acting. The story is how William Henry Pratt, whose stage name was Boris Karloff, overcomes physical and cultural handicaps to become an unlikely success in his chosen field of acting by making the most of an equally unlikely opportunity when he's cast in the role of a monster. The central metaphor is The Frankenstein Monster trying to grasp light when he first sees it, representing Boris, and all of God's bumbling creatures, trying to reach and understand more than they are capable of comprehending.\n\nThe play premiered in Salem, Oregon, November 14, 2014, at Level B Theater Pub. Boris Karloff's only child, Sara Jane Karloff, attended both performances of the show's opening weekend. The play was developed with Stephen Jacobs, author of the biography \"Boris Karloff: More Than a Monster,\" as the script's dramaturg.\n\nBowser performed the role of Boris in the premiere, but did not develop the piece as a personal vehicle, but rather as a play open for the general theatre market to all interested producers. A second production ran during October, 2016, at the Alliance Performance Center of Tucson, AZ. Charles Prokopp played Boris, and the production was directed by John R. Gunn.\n\nThe initial production of the play was funded by a successful Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign. The Kickstarter page for Karloff is still maintained, and is an archive of photos, promotions and blog entries.\n\n"}
{"id": "48541715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48541715", "title": "Lieven Willemsz van Coppenol", "text": "Lieven Willemsz van Coppenol\n\nLieven Willemsz van Coppenol (1598 – 1667) was a Dutch calligrapher best known today for his portraits by Rembrandt.\nHe became a French schoolmaster and lived in Haarlem in the Koningsstraat under the \"Crowned Pen\" in 1617. He then moved to the Begijnestraat behind the St. Bavochurch by the clock tower in 1624. By 1628 he had moved to Amsterdam where he ran a school in 1628 called ‘In den Hertog van Saxen', near the 'Jan Roodenpoortstoren’. He married for the second time as a widower on 19 June 1644 in Amsterdam to Grietje Andries.\nHe had several poems written in his honor, presumably as a return favor for writing the poems of poets on wall decorations and engraved plates. Several of his writing examples have been preserved. His \"schoonschrift\" as calligraphy was called was recorded for various objects, most notably a poem in the Amsterdam town hall that was written by Cornelia Pluvier, a poet married to the still-life painter Willem Kalf. Besides teaching, he travelled to clients to sell his work, pulling a hand cart with writing examples for inspiration.\nCoppenol died in Amsterdam.\n"}
{"id": "23263823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23263823", "title": "List of Changeling: The Dreaming books", "text": "List of Changeling: The Dreaming books\n\nA comprehensive list of \"\" books, published by White Wolf, Inc., including production code and ISBN.\n"}
{"id": "1452897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1452897", "title": "List of lowest-income counties in the United States", "text": "List of lowest-income counties in the United States\n\nThis is a list of the lowest-income counties in the United States.\n\n\"Note: This list does not include unincorporated territories of the United States.\"\n\n\"United States of America: $49,246\"\n\"United States of America: $57,617\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7838831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7838831", "title": "Maxine Molyneux", "text": "Maxine Molyneux\n\nProf. Maxine Deirdre Molyneux (born 24 May 1948 in Karachi, Pakistan) is a sociologist whose work focuses on the women's movement.\n\nThat women's interests and gender interests are different categories is the discovery for which Maxine Molyneux is most frequently cited. Her focus is women's movements, and her central question is how they and the state influence each other. Interests and law are the categories under which she examines the changeable and shapeable relationship of the gender order and the state. She wants to bring back the state and the political subject into the thinking on modernisation, democratisation and development.\n\nMolyneux studied sociology at the University of Essex and is now Professor of Sociology and Director of the Institute of the Americas, University College London. Her research, as well the influential distinction between gender needs and interests, deals with such subjects as society and development, poverty and social inequality, and gender and politics in Latin America. She is also a consultant to several United Nations organisations, as well as to Oxfam and other NGOs. As co-founder in 1979 of the noted magazine \"Feminist Review\" and an editor of the magazine \"Economy and Society\", she is involved in the further development of debates on theory.\n\nMolyneux was married to the late Professor Fred Halliday, with whom she had a son, Alex.\n\nMolyneux has written extensively in the fields of political sociology and gender and development studies. She is the author among others of:\n\n\nShe has co-authored:\n\nShe is co-editor of:\n\n"}
{"id": "1517711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1517711", "title": "Military brat (U.S. subculture)", "text": "Military brat (U.S. subculture)\n\n\"Military brat\" and various \"brat\" derivatives describe the child of a parent or parents serving full-time in the United States Armed Forces and can also refer to the subculture and lifestyle of such families. The term refers to both current and former children of such families.\n\nThe military brat lifestyle typically involves moving to new states or countries many times while growing up, as the child's military family is customarily transferred to new non-combat assignments; consequently, many military brats never have a home town. War-related family stresses are also a commonly occurring part of military brat life. There are also other aspects of military brat life that are significantly different in comparison to the civilian American population, often including living in foreign countries and or diverse regions within the U.S., exposure to foreign languages and cultures, and immersion in military culture.\n\nThe military brats subculture has emerged over the last 200 years. The age of the phenomenon has meant military brats have also been described by a number of researchers as one of America's oldest and yet least well-known and largely invisible subcultures. They have also been described as a \"modern nomadic subculture\".\n\n\"Military brat\" is known in U.S. military culture as a term of endearment and respect. The term may also connote a military brat's experience of mobile upbringing, and may reference a sense of worldliness. Research has shown that most current and former military brats like the term; however, outside of the military world, the term \"military brat\" can sometimes be misunderstood by the non-military population, where the word \"brat\" is often a pejorative term.\n\nStudies show that this group is shaped by several forces. A major influence is the fact of frequent moves, as the family follows the military member-parent (or in some cases, both parents who are military members) who is transferred from military base to military base, each move usually being hundreds or thousands of miles in distance. Other shaping forces include a culture of resilience and adaptivity, constant loss of friendship ties, a facility or knack for making new friends, never having a hometown, and extensive exposure to foreign cultures and languages while living overseas or to a wide range of regional cultural differences due to living in a variety of different American regions. Additional influences include living in a series of military bases serving as community centers, the pervasive military culture on those bases, the absence of a parent due to deployments, the threat of parental loss in war, stresses associated with the psychological aftermath of war (living with war-affected returning veteran parents) and the militarization of the family unit (children being treated to some degree like soldiers and being subjected to military regimentation, inculcation into a warrior code of honor and service, frequent exposure to patriotic ideas and symbols, experience of free medical care, and military discipline). Military brats receives Tricare until they reach the age of 23 or age 25 (If Tricare Young Adult is purchased).\n\nWhile some non-military families may share some of these same attributes and experiences, military culture has a much higher incidence and concentration of these issues and experiences in military families as compared to civilian populations, and by tightly-knit military communities that perceive these experiences as normal. Studies show that growing up immersed in military culture can have long-lasting effects on children, both in positive and also some negative ways.\n\nMilitary bases are often small cities with 10,000 or more people, and are self-contained worlds where military culture is primary and civilian culture is secondary. Military families do not always live on base, but often do. Military towns, the areas immediately surrounding a base, are also often highly influenced by military culture. While the general public uses the term \"base\" to refer any military installation, within the US military the term \"base\" primarily applies to Air Force or Navy installations while Army installations are called \"posts.\"\n\nMilitary brats grow up moving from base to base as they follow their parent or parents to new assignments. Sometimes living on base, sometimes off, the base in both cases is often the center of military brat life, where shopping, recreation, schools and the military community form a string of temporary towns for military brats as they grow up.\n\nStudies show that the culture on military bases is perceived by most current and former military brats as significantly different from civilian culture. It is widely experienced as being pervaded by military cultural norms and expectations, as well as the presence of military police or their other military security forces equivalents, armed guards, high security zones and some degree of surveillance. Some bases also contain unique features, such as air bases with numerous aircraft and attendant noise, or seaports with large numbers of naval vessels. Balancing this are extensive areas which are more relaxed in character, for on-base housing, shopping, dining, recreation, sports and entertainment, as well as base chapels which host diverse religious services. However, military regulations, laws and social codes of conduct are in force throughout the base, which can be very different from local, state or national laws, regulations and customs.\n\nMilitary language also has differences from standard American English and is often peppered with military slang and military acronyms. There are many words and phrases that are unique to the military world and which make up a part of everyday conversation on bases. For example, time is measured in 24-hour rather than 12-hour segments as in the civilian world, and distances, primarily on stateside Army bases or on many U.S. bases of all services overseas, often described in meters and kilometers (or \"Clicks\" in military slang) instead of yards or miles. Consequently, many military brats report feelings of cultural identity that have a military flavor and a feeling of difference from local civilian culture, even on bases in the United States. These feelings of difference can also be made more complex by virtue of having absorbed varying degrees of overseas cultures and also different regional American cultures while living in different places as a part of the military brat lifestyle.\n\nBases do form communities, but due to most of them experiencing frequent 100% turnover in just a few years, an adult military brat can never return and find old friends, neighbors or even former teachers, on bases where they grew up. Base schools usually have an even higher turnover rate, reaching 100% turnover in as little as 2 years. Due to revocation of base privileges upon reaching the age of 18 (or 23 if one attends college), access to bases to reminisce or reconnect with one's places of growing up can also be difficult.\n\nAlthough no exact figures are available, the U.S. Department of Defense estimates that approximately 15 million Americans are former or current military brats, including those who spent all or part of their childhood and/or adolescence in the lifestyle. This population includes an age range from less than 1 years old to over 90 years of age, since there have been military brats for generations. Many military brats spent all of their growing up years in the active lifestyle, some for only part, although military family issues, dynamics and influences may continue nevertheless. Also, not all military brats grow up moving all the time, although many do.\n\nMilitary brats have been studied extensively, both from the perspective of social psychology and as a distinct and unique American subculture, although less so in terms of long-term impact of the lifestyle. There are also some gaps in studies of more recent (post-Cold War-era) military brats. Collectively these studies paint a fairly consistent picture of how the lifestyle tends to influence the population (on average) in various aspects of life. These studies look at overall patterns and individual experiences may vary widely:\n\nSome strong positives that have been identified in studies of military brat populations are a high occurrence of very resilient personalities, exceptional social skills, a high level of multicultural or international awareness, proficiency in foreign languages, and a statistically very strong affinity for careers that entail service to others. Studies show that ex-military kids end up pursuing service-related careers in very high numbers: military service, teaching, counseling, police, nursing and foreign service work being highly represented in military brat career statistics (in comparison to statistics on non-military brat patterns of employment choices). Mary Edwards Wertsch also identified a pattern (for those military brats who do not choose military service) of work that is more independent (self-employment / avoidance of direct subservience to authority figures) and along those lines also favoring creative and artistic professions that offer more independence. She also reported that for those military brats who did choose military service there was a tendency to go through a phase of bucking or testing authority during military service, or a pattern of resenting authority, represented in her study population. However, military brats who become soldiers also tend to do well overall in the profession.\n\nAs adults, military brats can share many of the same positive and negative traits identified in other populations that experienced very mobile childhoods. Having had the opportunity to live around the world, military brats can have a breadth of experiences unmatched by most teenagers. Regardless of race, religion, nationality, or gender, brats might identify more with other highly mobile children than with non-mobile ones. Military brats also graduate from college at a higher rate than the civilian population and divorce at a lower rate.\n\nOn the negative side, studies show that some former military brats struggle to develop and maintain deep, lasting relationships, and can feel like outsiders to U.S. civilian culture. The transitory lifestyle can hinder potential for constructing concrete relationships with people and developing emotional attachments to specific places, as can the stresses of having a parent deployed to a war zone and also the psychological aftermath of war in dealing with returning veteran parents. In some cases there is also the loss of a parent in combat, or a drastic change in a parent due to a combat related disability. A military brat may personally know another child or teenager, or even a few other peers, whose parents have become war casualties (wounded or killed). A significant minority of ex-military brats may exhibit symptoms of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, Avoidant Personality Disorder, Separation Anxiety Disorder, etc.\n\nAlthough neither a clearly negative or positive trait, studies also show that many adult military brats report difficulty settling down in one geographic location and also report a desire to move (relocate) every few years; many adult military brats call this \"the itch\". However, some adult military brats report the opposite tendency and relate refusing any and all pressures from spouses or employers to ever move again.\n\nMany former military brats report struggling at some point in their lives with issues related to perfectionism and learning how to let go in areas of personal performance (perhaps due to the demanding nature of military culture). Paradoxically, a majority of those very same military brats who report having struggled with perfectionism and performance control issues also describe themselves as being successful in their lives, indicating a resilience that also surfaces in overcoming or learning to manage those issues in the long run.\n\nOverall a majority of military brats report having developed a kind of extra-adaptability and assimilate into new situations quickly and well, as they have done with each move to a new military base, town or country. Yet paradoxically, long-term feelings of being an outsider in relation to civilian (non-military) culture are common to a majority of military brats. For example, one major study shows that 32% of military brats feel as if they are only spectators on U.S. life, and another 48% do not feel as if they are central to any group.\n\nA significant percentage of military brats report difficulty in forming strong relations with people or places, but very often do form strong connections with (or in some cases aversion to) the notion of a military base and the communities in which they find themselves. This is because the knowledge, experience, values, ideas, attitudes, skills, tastes, and techniques that are associated with the military can sometimes differ from civilian culture. Military bases are miniature, self-contained, government-subsidized towns that promote conformity. Military families shop at some of the same stores, whose discounted merchandise is regulated to prevent unfair competition, so they can often end up with the same clothes and products. Male brats were, at one time, likely to get the same \"military haircut\" at the base barbershop, but this has changed over time. To a child growing up on a military base, in a homogeneous culture, the individuality of civilian life was once thought to be completely foreign. However, as the individual children have attended civilian schools near base and socialized with their peers, this perceived difference may have reduced to varying degrees.\n\nPatriotism may come to mean different things for different ex-military brats, but nevertheless figures strongly in the upbringing, language and thinking of many who grew up in military families. The comfort, or sense of restriction, (or both) that can be found on military bases is not limited to the physical trappings, but can be fortified via some of the consistent rituals common to them. When moving around the world, these rituals can help brats feel at home in their new community. Even though the faces and geography change, the \"base\" can remain recognizable because the rituals are often uniform. The underlying principle of these rituals is consistent: to promote patriotism.\n\nIt has been claimed by Samuel Britten on the basis of anecdotal evidence that life on military bases is associated with comparatively greater patriotic sentiments. For example, honoring the American flag is expected. At the end of the business day, on a military installation, the bugle call \"To the Color\" is played while the flag is lowered. While no longer universal, formerly anybody outside, even if participating in sports or driving a car, was expected to stop their activity and stand at attention. Uniformed personnel salute and non-uniformed people place their hand over their heart.\n\nUntil recently, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited every morning, and patriotic and militaristic songs may have been sung at Department of Defense Dependents Schools (DoDDS) overseas and Department of Defense Domestic Dependent Elementary and Secondary Schools (DDESS) within the United States. Patriotic ideals often form the basis for church sermons. Protestant and Catholic worship services may include militaristic hymns. Prior to movies at base theaters, patrons and staff stand for the National Anthem and often another patriotic song, such as \"God Bless the USA\".\n\nThe military family knows that the service person may be killed in the line of duty, but may accept that risk because they understand the values of duty, honor, and country. The mission is one in which the brat shares by extension through his military parent.\n\nMilitary law requires commanding officers and those in authority to demonstrate virtue, honor, patriotism, and subordination in all that they do. In the 1990s, the army officially adopted what have come to be known as \"The 7 Army Values\", which are summarized with the acronym \"LDRSHIP\". LDRSHIP stands for Loyalty, Duty, Respect, Selfless Service, Honor, Integrity, and Personal Courage. While this acronym is relatively new, the ideas it represents have been at the heart of military service for generations. Similarly, the motto \"Duty, honor, country\" is the standard of the U.S. military. Military brats are raised in a culture that stresses LDRSHIP, Duty, Honor, and Country. Their strict (outward) adherence to military values is what separates most from their civilian peers. Children of military personnel often mirror the values, ideals, and attitudes of their parents more than children of civilians. Marine General Peter Pace, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in a 2006 interview, \"There's no way, in my mind, that you can be successful in the military and have a family unless that family does, in fact, appreciate your service to the country.\" Pace also wrote in an April 2006 letter honoring the Month of the Military Child: \"You [military children] are American patriots and role models for us all.\"\n\nThe stereotypical military family might have had a \"duty roster\" on the refrigerator, parent-conducted room inspections, and children who say \"yes sir/ma'am\" to adults. Eighty percent of Cold War-era brats described their father as \"authoritarian\" or desiring to exercise complete control over their lives. They described their military parent as rigid in discipline, inflexible, intolerant of dissent, disapproving of non-conforming behavior, insensitive to their emotions, and not accepting of personal privacy. A Cold War era military psychologist, publishing in the \"American Journal of Psychology\", reviewed the parents of patients who came to his clinic, and concluded that 93% of patients came from military families that were overly authoritarian.\n\nDisciplinary expectations extend beyond the military family. Family members know that their actions and behavior can have a direct impact on the military service member's career. The consequences of misbehavior for a military brat are generally greater than for civilian children. A military person's career and social identity can be dashed in seconds by a willful or careless child. For example, when a military brat gets in trouble, the authorities may call the parent's Commanding Officer or the Base Commander before, or instead of, calling the brat's parents. If the commanding officer or base commander is contacted, the brat's behavior may become a part of the military member's record, and adversely affect his or her ability to be promoted or the duty assignments (particularly overseas) that lead to advancement.\n\nResearch into military brats has consistently shown them to be better behaved than their civilian counterparts. Sociologist Phoebe Price posed three possible hypotheses as to why brats are better behaved: firstly, military parents have a lower threshold for misbehavior in their children; secondly, the mobility of teenagers might make them less likely to attract attention to themselves, as many want to fit in and are less secure with their surroundings; and thirdly, normative constraints are greater, with brats knowing that their behavior is under scrutiny and can affect the military member's career.\n\nTeenage years are typically a period when people establish independence by taking some risks away from their parents. When the teenager lives in a \"fish-bowl community,\" a small self-contained community such as a base, challenging boundaries may be more difficult. Brats know that misbehavior or rebellious activity will be reported to their parents. Brats are sometimes under constant pressure to conform to what military culture expects; this means they are sometimes seen as being more mature in their youth than their peers. If they grow up overseas or on military bases, they might have limited opportunities to see a wide range of role models in different professions.\n\nStrict discipline can have the opposite effect: brats may rebel or behave in adolescent manners well beyond what is normally considered acceptable. Others develop psychological problems due to the intense stress of always being on their best behavior.\n\nMilitary life is strictly segregated by rank; the facilities provided for officers and enlisted personnel differ dramatically. The officers' housing will generally be more accessible to base activities, larger in size, and better landscaped. On larger bases, the officers' housing may be broken down into different categories, with senior officers receiving larger and more opulent housing; sometimes, the highest-ranking officers live in a row of large houses often referred to as \"Colonels'/Captains' Row\" or \"Generals'/Admirals' Row,\" as the case may be.\n\nThe Officer Clubs are more elegant than the Enlisted Clubs. Officers have cleaner, more elaborate recreational facilities than their enlisted counterparts. Historically, base chapels and movie theaters would have designated seating for officers and their families. For a part of the 20th century, some bases had two Boy Scout and two Girl Scout troops—one for officer children and one for enlisted children.\n\nThese differences are not merely external, but a core aspect of military life. Children of enlisted personnel often believe that children of officers receive specialized treatment because non-officers are afraid to upset the officers. The physical separation and differences between available activities make it very difficult. Most military brats on a personal level do not let this affect their social interactions, and in most cases it is frowned upon to treat others by their parent's pay grade or rank.\n\nThe separation by rank has the intended purpose of maintaining military discipline among service members. According to the U.S. Uniform Code of Military Justice, it can be illegal for an officer to fraternize with an enlisted person because it would erode the military hierarchy. This is often conveyed to the children of military personnel. Two brats whose parents have a subordinate-supervisory relationship can cause problems for both their parents.\n\nTo a lesser degree, military classism also includes the branch of service to which the military parent belongs. If asked to name \"the best branch of service,\" military brats will almost invariably name the one to which their parent belonged. They will be able to articulate many reasons why \"their\" branch of the service is the best. These biases are maintained well past the time they cease to be military dependents. When brats grow up, these boundaries are replaced by a shared identity based upon that of being a military brat.\n\nWhile a class hierarchy is reflected in stratified housing structures, military classism differs from traditional class structures in some significant ways – namely, schooling and access to quality healthcare. Children of military personnel attend the same base schools regardless of rank, creating peer cultures that are usually not class-based, and providing equal access to educational resources. Similarly, all military personnel receive the same quality of healthcare by the same providers.\n\nIn 1948, nearly 20 years before the civil rights movement swept through the non-military segments of U.S. society, President Truman signed Executive Order 9981 integrating the military and mandating equality of treatment and opportunity. It outlawed segregation in the military and made it illegal, per military law, to make a racist remark. Fifteen years later, Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara issued Department of Defense Directive 5120.36. \"Every military commander,\" the Directive mandates, \"has the responsibility to oppose discriminatory practices affecting his men and their dependents and to foster equal opportunity for them, not only in areas under his immediate control, but also in nearby communities where they may gather in off-duty hours.\" The directive was issued in 1963, but it was not until 1967 that the first non-military installation was declared off-limits to military personnel due to its discriminatory practices. While these directives did not eliminate all racism in the military, they continue to affect the culture in which children of military personnel grow up.\n\nWhen families go overseas, minority students rarely experience overt racism from their expatriate neighbors. This is also true on military bases within the U.S.; as the diverse and more integrated military base community is isolated from the off-base community, and seen as the primary community, outside communities being secondary, military dependents are less likely to resort to racist notions. The bonds of the military community are normally seen by military dependents as being stronger bonds than the differences of race. Military brats grow up in a setting that actively condemns racist comments. This results in brats who \"aren't just non-racist, but anti-racist.\"\n\nBecause military brats are constantly making new friends to replace the ones that they have lost, they are often more outgoing and independent. On the other hand, the experience of being a constant stranger can lead them to feel estranged everywhere, even if later in life they settle down in one place. According to the largest study conducted on nearly 700 TCKs, eighty percent claim that they can relate to anyone, regardless of differences such as race, ethnicity, religion, or nationality.\n\nA typical military school can experience up to 50% turnover every year (25% graduate while a third of the remaining 75% of students move); social groups that existed one year cease to exist as new groups emerge. The brat learns to adapt quickly to fit into this ever-changing environment. Highly mobile children are more likely to reach out to a new student, because they know what it is like to be the new student.\n\nRecent studies show that, although brats move on average every 3 years, they do not grow accustomed to moving. The constantly changing environment and openness to others has a price. Rather than develop problem-solving skills, there is a temptation to simply leave a problem without resolving it. If a person does not like somebody or gets into a fight, they know that in a few years somebody will move and the problem will disappear. On the other hand, when brats marry it is generally for life; over two thirds of brats over 40 are married to their first spouse. Studies show that many brats become very adaptable as a result of the mobile lifestyle, But there is also a higher than average incidence, among a minority of military brats, of Avoidant Personality Disorder and Separation Anxiety Disorder.\n\nMoving during the summer months can be challenging. Courses students have taken at their old schools may not fulfill the graduation requirements at their new school. Moving during the winter holidays or mid-year, however, has traditionally been viewed as the worst time to move. The student is forced to join classes that have already begun. Social groups become even more difficult to break into, and activities that the student enjoyed may be barred to him or her. For example, an athlete may not be able to join his or her sport because they missed tryouts and the season had already begun. A student who excelled at their old DoDDS or DDESS school suddenly feels inadequate at the larger school. Recent studies, however, show that mobility during the school year may be less traumatic than summertime moves.\n\nDoDDS schools overseas and DDESS schools in the United States tend to be smaller than many public schools. Students and teachers often interact in a more social manner with one another. When returning to civilian schools, the lack of camaraderie with the faculty can be an unexpected obstacle for many highly mobile families.\n\nMilitary brats have lower delinquency rates, higher achievement scores on standardized tests, and higher median IQs than their civilian counterparts. They are more likely to have a college degree (60% v 24%) and possess an advanced degree (29.1% v 5%). While these rates are higher than the general U.S. population, they are lower than those of other non-brat third culture kids (84–90% college degree and 40% graduate degree). United States military brats are the most mobile of the \"third culture kids\", moving on average every three years. Brats move frequently between bases in the United States and typically spend at least three years abroad.\n\nSociologist Morten Ender conducted the largest scientific study to date exclusively on career military brats (those who had at least one parent in the military from birth through high school). He interviewed and sent questionnaires to over 600 brats who belonged to various brat organizations and responded to his newspaper and internet ads. His study revealed that 97% lived in at least one foreign country, 63% in two, 31% in three. They averaged eight moves before graduating from high school and spent an average of seven years in foreign countries. Over 80% now speak at least one language other than English, and 14% speak three or more. Ann Cottrell's work with third culture kids, however, shows slightly lower results, but her results did not specify career brats. Sociologist Henry Watanabe showed that military and civilian teenagers share the same concerns and desires, but that growing up in a mobile community offers opportunities and experiences generally unavailable to geographically stable families. A sociological study of overseas American military communities in Cold War Germany also showed some transformational effects on those communities due to foreign exposure.\n\nTwo of the common themes in Wertsch's book are abuse and alcoholism. These are echoed in other literature of the Cold War, such as Pat Conroy's \"The Great Santini\". In the 1980s and 1990s the U.S. military focused on the issues of abuse and alcoholism. The impact on the military's efforts remains inconclusive. Some studies report higher rates of abuse in military families, while others report lower rates.\n\nThe studies that conclude abuse is a bigger problem in military families than civilian families attribute this to the long hours, frequent disruptions in lifestyles, and high degree of stress. They point out that military families may be more reluctant to report issues of abuse because of the potential impact on the service member's career. Other studies, however, argue that military families have a smaller problem than civilian families because military culture offers more accessible help for victims of abuse. Military families have health care, housing, and family support programs often unavailable to lower income civilian families. Abusive family members are more likely to be ordered (by their commanding officer or base commander) to obtain treatment, thus reducing reoccurrences of abuse.\n\nThe U.S. Defense Department reports that there are currently 2 million American children and teenagers who have had at least one parent deployed in a war zone in the current Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts. Over 900,000 have had a parent deployed multiple times.\n\nMost of the research into military brats has been conducted on the long-term effects on adults who grew up during the Cold War and also during the Vietnam and Korean wars. As the Cold War came to an end, the role of the United States Armed Forces changed. The U.S. military realized that there was distinct correlation between the quality of life and retention and operational effectiveness. To this end, the military started to change the living standards that most Cold War brats grew up with. The demographics of the military changed. The modern military has a larger proportion of married military members. Since base housing is designed for fewer families, more families are forced to live off-base.\n\nMilitary personnel are now being supplemented by more civilians filling essential roles, and the introduction of large megabases that intermesh different service branches and their individual cultures has also affected the demographics. Finally, during the post-Cold War period, the United States has been involved in three extended military engagements (two in Iraq and one in Afghanistan). The long-term effects of these changes are unknown, but research has been conducted on short-term effects on post-Cold War-era brats.\n\nToday's military brat faces some additional challenges. For example, it is estimated that approximately 50,000 military families have both parents serving in the armed forces; this creates the possibility that both parents may be deployed at the same time. Another significant difference is the speed of communication. With the advent of the Internet it is possible for family members to communicate with servicemen in combat zones. This allows brats to remain in closer contact with their military parent(s), but it also increases tension as more details reach the military families. Round-the-clock news agencies, such as CNN and Fox News, spread news faster than the military bureaucracy can process the details. This means that military families know that servicemen have died before official word reaches the family. Military psychiatrist Colonel Stephen Cozza says that a \"sense of fear\" accompanies news of the death of a service member until confirmation that the service member was not a loved one.\n\nWertsch has pointed out, however, that during the Vietnam War, televised news war coverage was also very intense and constant, and that similar issues of military family fear being intensified by television coverage were also present for military brats and spouses of that era with a family member in the war.\n\nDespite these facts, studies show only a slight increase in immediate stressors among military brats whose parents serve in a combat zone, although no studies on the longer-term effects have ever been done. Boys and younger children do show the most risk when a parent is deployed, but rarely does this require clinical intervention. However, studies show that when a military member is deployed to a combat zone, the family cohesion is more disrupted than when service members are deployed to non-combat zones.\n\nMilitary members can be deployed for days, months, or even years without their family. When a parent is stationed without their family, the children experience the same emotions as children of divorced parents. In addition to the effects of the divorce, military brats have additional concerns. When a military member is sent away, the family does not always know where they are going or when (or if) the service member will return. Studies show that there are three phases to deployment, and each phase has different impacts on the family. Military spouses reported the following when their spouse was deployed:\n\n\nWhile separation produces stress, according to the US military it strengthens the children by forcing them to take on additional responsibilities when a parent is absent, encouraging independence.\n\nA Pentagon study released in June 2009 reported that children of combat troops show more fear, anxiety and behavioral problems. According to the study, spouses report that when the service member is sent to a combat zone, that their children start to experienced increased anxiety. One in four parents say their children respond poor or very poorly, and a third experienced academic problems. Another study done by the University of California Los Angeles indicated that a year after the parent returns, 30% of children \"exhibited clinical levels of anxiety.\" The Pentagon Study found the effects most pronounced in children between the ages of 5-13, while the UCLA study found contrary evidence that the issues were the strongest in children under the age of 8.\n\n\"Suddenly military\" (reservist and National Guard) families face additional challenges, related to isolation from other military-family peers, and isolation within their home-town communities, not faced by traditional military families.\n\nWith the increased demands on the U.S. military, reservists have been called to active duty. The children of these reservists, who are suddenly called to extended active duty, are technically military brats, but they may not identify with or share all of the characteristics of traditional brats (although in certain specific areas, such as war-related issues, they may share a great deal). In an effort to help integrate \"suddenly military\" brats, groups like \"Operation: Military Kids\" and \"Our Military Kids\" came into existence. Operation: Military Kids is a program designed to help \"suddenly military\" children understand the military culture to which they now belong, and Our Military Kids provides monetary grants that support tutoring, sports and other extracurricular activities of National Guard and Reserve children, whose parents sometimes incur a lapse in income upon being called to active duty.\n\nNational Guard families are not as familiar with military culture. They are physically separated from other military families, meaning they may get less emotional support during wartime, and may not be as emotionally prepared for active-duty deployment. Both the formal and informal support structures available for the regular military families are not as readily available to reservist families. Operation: Military Kids teaches \"suddenly military\" brats about military culture and expectations.\n\nChildren of reservist soldiers also don't share the highly mobile aspect of \"regular service\" military brat life. They may, however, still develop feelings of difference or isolation in relation to non-military children or teenagers in their home towns, due to war-deployment related stresses and war-aftermath issues that their non-military peers may not be able to fully understand. Consequently, it may be harder for teachers and health care professionals to identify and address war-deployment-related child, adolescent or family problems, unless they are specifically screened for. Although the family may not be as fully immersed in military culture, individual reservist parents may still effect varying degrees of militarization of the family social environment and the child's upbringing. Some children born to no-longer active duty veterans may also experience a number of these issues.\n\nThe effect of having a parent killed during military operations has not been specifically studied. Limited studies on children who have lost a parent show that 10–15% experience depression and a few develop childhood traumatic grief (the inability to recall any positive memories of the deceased parent). Military psychiatrist Stephen Cozza speculates, based upon his experience, that the long-term effects of having a parent killed during war would be more traumatic and difficult to deal with than typical causes of parental death.\n\nTraining and preparing for war also involves significant dangers, as do other military duties. Consequently, many military brats live with the reality of risk to one or both parents even when there is no active war. Peacetime military accidents claim lives every year at a significantly higher rate than accidents for the civilian population; some service professions such as military pilots, paratroopers and other airborne soldiers, aircraft carrier flight deck workers, Coast Guard sea rescue, ordnance or munitions workers, Naval firefighters, as well as those training or drilling in live ammunition exercises, all experience higher annual death rates. Such casualties are difficult, if not impossible, to keep hidden from children or teenagers in small base communities.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Defense has designated April as \"Month of the Military Child\" with special programs, public educational and support activities coordinated during this time each year. The Department of Defense also uses the term \"Military Brat\" in some of its research and literature about military children.\n\nAs adults, military brats sometimes try to reunite with their brat heritage.\n\nA recent study, \"Military Brats: Issues and Associations in Adulthood,\" identified several reasons why some military brats, as adults, seek out brat organizations. Military brats can feel a \"sense of euphoria\" when they discover that other brats share the same feelings and emotions. According to the study, brats share a bond with one another through common experiences that transcends race, religion, and nationality. Another common theme behind their joining brat organizations is to stay connected or reconnect with their old friends.\nWith all the focus on veterans, the children are left to grow up in sometimes harsh, usually very strict environments with no recognition and no help. With enormous differences between military children and civilian children, one might think that there would be inquiry into the effects, yet few can be found readily available. Mary Edwards Werstch writes about her experiences, as well as the experiences of those she has interviewed, in her book \"Brats: Growing up inside the Fortress\". Pat Conroy also sheds light on the difficult circumstances of growing up in his book (later a movie), \"The Great Santini\".\n\nThere have been many famous military brats, and also numerous representations of fictional military brats in literature and film.\n\nThe origin of the term \"military brat\" is unknown. There is some evidence that it dates back hundreds of years into the British Empire, and originally stood for \"British Regiment Attached Traveler\". However, acronyms are a product of the 20th century and all attempts to trace this theory have failed to find a legitimate source. There have been American military brats dating back 200 years to the birth of the United States. Military spouses and their children have been following armies for thousands of years, perhaps for as long as there has been organized warfare. The term \"Little Traveller\", used to describe the travelling child of a soldier (following his or her father's army from place to place), also appears in literature as early as 1811.\n\nIn Johnson's Dictionary of 1755, \"brat\" is defined as either \"a child, so called in contempt\" or \"the progeny; the offspring\". Examples are quoted from Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\", published in 1590; \"Coriolanus\" and \"The Winter's Tale\" by Shakespeare (1564-1616); and two unidentified works by Swift (1667–1745).\n\nNoted military brat researcher Mary Edwards Wertsch polled 85 ex-military children as to whether or not they liked the term \"military brat\", and only five respondents (5.9% of the study group) objected to the term.\n\nThe term is now widely used by researchers and academicians and so is no longer merely a slang term, but a name clearly attached to a recognized and well-studied segment of U.S. culture: \"Most of the professional research on growing up in military families has contributed to the perpetuation of the 'brat' label,\" sociologist and noted expert on the study of military brats Morten Ender wrote. \"It is no wonder that the label endures and is as popular as ever.\"\n\nLinguistic reclamation is the appropriation of a pejorative epithet by its target, to turn an insult into a positive term and deny others the ability to define it; non-military personnel may find the term \"brat\" insulting if they do not understand the context. Sociologist Karen Williams used it reluctantly in her research, with the disclaimer, \"to follow the wishes of the participants. It is a term that they use and feel comfortable with.\"\n\nThere is evidence that professional military culture has also reclaimed ownership of the term. Admiral Dennis C. Blair, former Commander in Chief, U.S. Pacific Command, and former U.S. Director of National Intelligence, said, \"There's a standard term for the military child: 'Brat.' While it sounds pejorative, it's actually a term of great affection.\" This trend is also visible among notable and influential civilians: Senator Ben Nelson, a member of the United States Senate Committee on Armed Services, wrote, \"when the word 'brat' is used to describe someone it is not meant as a compliment, but when it is preceded by another word and becomes \"military brat\" it becomes a term of endearment.\" Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter said, \"I married what is affectionately known as an Army brat.\" Senator John Cornyn identifies himself as a military brat, and also identified Judge Janice Brown as one, during her confirmation hearing before the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary. Military culture has created numerous positive backronyms for \"brat\", such as \"Born, Raised And Transferred\" or \"Brave, Resilient, Adaptable, and Trustworthy.\" While some may not like the origins of the term, most are comfortable with it.\n\nIn late 2014, two civilian children's book authors advocated the use of the acronym \"CHAMPs\" – \"Child Heroes Attached to Military Personnel\" – as a replacement for \"brat\". The adult military brat community soundly rejected this change.\n\nIn the 1970s, sociologist Ruth Hill Useem coined the term \"third culture kids\" (TCKs) for a child who follows his parents \"into another culture.\" Useem used the term \"Third Culture Kids\" because TCKs integrate aspects of their birth culture (the first culture) and the new culture (the second culture), creating a unique \"third culture\". Globally, offspring of military households comprise about 30% of all TCKs, but they are almost exclusively from the United States.\n\nSystematic research on individuals in such environments has been conducted since the 1980s. Responding to social and psychological issues recorded in military families and communities, the U.S. Armed Forces sponsored research on the long-term impact of growing up as a military dependent. Outside of the U.S. there is no significant literature on the effects of growing up as a military dependent. Since the Department of Defense does not track or monitor former brats, any study on adult brats is based upon self-identification. Thus, even though the studies are performed using scientific sampling methods, they may contain bias because of the difficulty in conducting epidemiological studies across broad-based population samples. Some researchers used referrals, the Internet, and newspaper articles to identify military brats.\n\nIn 1991, Mary Edwards Wertsch \"launched the movement for military brat cultural identity\" with her book \"Military Brats: Legacies of Childhood inside the Fortress\". In researching her book, Wertsch identified common themes from interviews of over 80 offspring of military households. While this book does not purport to be a scientific study, subsequent research has validated many of her findings. In the introduction to the book, former military brat Pat Conroy, the author of \"The Prince of Tides\" and \"The Great Santini,\" wrote,\n\nIn 2005 military brat and filmmaker Donna Musil released the first documentary ever made exclusively about military brats, \"Brats: Our Journey Home\". To date, the documentary has won six film awards. Musil furthers the premise that military brats form a distinct American subculture with a commonly held sense of identity that is actually a distinct American ethnicity. The documentary also draws on many studies interviews of researchers, counselors and psychologists, along with interviews of numerous former military brats.\n\nMusil's documentary also highlights the feeling among many military brats that the culture and lives of military brats are largely invisible to most Americans. Some sparse and superficial aspects of military brat life may be known, but a fuller sense of awareness of one of America's largest (and oldest) subcultures is largely non-existent. The documentary starts with country music singer and former military brat Kris Kristofferson calling military brats \"an invisible tribe\" comprising 5% of the American population.\n\nThe documentary closes with another quote from former military brat and author Pat Conroy, who writes,\n\n\n\nhas a story.\" These are interviews with famous and not-so-famous military brats.\n"}
{"id": "13884307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13884307", "title": "Mormon folklore", "text": "Mormon folklore\n\nMormon folklore is a body of expressive culture unique to members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) and other sects of Mormonism. Mormon folklore includes tales, oral history, popular beliefs, customs, music, jokes, and material culture traditions. In folklore studies, Mormons can be seen as a regional group, since the core group of Mormon settlers in Utah had a common religion and had to modify their surroundings for survival. This historical regional area includes Utah, Southeastern Idaho, parts of Wyoming and eastern Nevada, and a few towns in eastern Arizona, southern Alberta, northwestern New Mexico, southern Colorado, and northern Chihuahua, Mexico.\n\nVerbal lore for Mormons includes stories that missionaries tell each other as a part of initiation and also to encourage adherence to mission rules. Members tell stories about Mormon pioneers, The Three Nephites, and unseen benevolent spirits to bolster their faith. In pioneer times, folk songs alternately praised and punished prominent leaders like Brigham Young.\n\nCommon customs for Mormons include reciting conversion narratives, which is especially common during fast and testimony meeting. Married members also commonly tell how they were inspired to choose their spouse, and some women with children recount that a vision of a future child inspired them to have more children. In the Mormon regional area, creative date invitations are a common way for teenagers to ask each other out. Pioneer Day is a state holiday in Utah, where members patriotically celebrate their religious predecessors.\n\nPioneer handicrafts were inspired by the many cultures that came together in Utah. Handicrafts were initially a necessity, and pioneers developed techniques to adapt their skills to the materials on hand. Later, the Relief Society promoted handicrafts as improving mental health. Along with quilting and needlework, pioneers also made Hair jewellery, human hair wreaths, and silk thread. Towns in the Mormon regional area have a unique combination of features, including unpainted barns, irrigation ditches, wooden moveable hay derricks, and Lombardy poplars as wind breaks. Tombstones in this area commonly depict clasped hands or a Mormon temple. Mormon fundamentalists have different folklore from Latter-day Saints. They draw on their shared heritage of experience in government raids to unify them, and enjoy folk dancing.\n\nAlta S. and Austin E. Fife are the founders of research into Mormon folklore, a discipline that has expanded greatly since the couple’s initial work in the 1930s. Although previous and contemporary scholars had briefly addressed the issue, the Fifes expanded the field, both through their collection, now known as the Fife Folklore Archive, held at the Merrill-Cazier Library on the Utah State University campus in Logan, Utah. Their book on Mormon folklore, \"Saints of Sage and Saddle\", was published in 1956. This book, according to folklorist Jill Terry Rudy, \"remains the most complete book-length treatment of Mormon folklore\". Folklorist William A. Wilson also specialized in Mormon folklore, and helped establish the way Mormon folklore is organized in archives.\n\nMissionaries have their own set of folklore. According to folklorist William A. Wilson, missionaries tell stories for four main purposes: to build a sense of comradeship, to cope with the pressures of missionary life, to encourage missionaries to keep mission rules, and to assure themselves of future victory.\n\nThey commonly tell stories about how new missionaries, or \"greenies\", are initiated into the existing missionary group through pranks, even if these pranks never occurred. Learning missionary slang also helps new missionaries feel like part of the missionary community. Missionaries often tell stories in which some missionaries try to escape mission life but are discovered. One common \"unauthorized trip story\" tells how two missionaries write their weekly reports in advance, entrust them to their landlady, and embark on a sightseeing tour, only to be caught when their landlady sends the reports all at once. Another common story tells of a missionary who decides to break mission rules and participate in a sports tournament, only to be discovered by their mission president when their picture appears in the news. These stories focus on trickster heroes who fail and embody the group's childish fantasies, acting as \"an approved steam-valve for the group\". In some stories that encourage obedience, a missionary disobeys the rules and suffers disastrous consequences. Other stories tell of missionaries miraculously saved from danger. Missionaries also tell stories about getting the best of a hostile world, even if it causes other people to suffer. Missionaries in such stories shake the dust from their feet after leaving a city that was unresponsive to their message. After performing this ritual, the city is destroyed through a natural disaster, war, or economic depression. Stories where people insult missionaries, only to come to an untimely end, are common.\n\nMormons tell stories about early church members, The Three Nephites, and spirits of dead people. Mormons often retell stories about how early members of the church endured persecution and hardships in order to inspire other members. Stories about plural wives often tell of the women's plight in having to share a husband, or the opposite, the convenient companionship of her sister wives. J. Golden Kimball was a member of the Seventy and a folk hero known for swearing and undermining authority; stories told about him are often humorous. Stories about Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, Eliza Snow, and other founders have a near-mythic status.\n\nThe Three Nephites are three Nephite disciples chosen by Jesus in the Book of Mormon to never die. In modern Three Nephites stories, one or more of these men appear to give assistance to those in need and then mysteriously disappear. The assistance ranges from providing childcare to fixing a car. According to William Wilson, Three Nephites stories \"reflect and reinforce church programs and, by endowing them with mystical values, place them beyond criticism or questioning.\"\n\nMany Mormons engage in genealogy research in order to perform baptisms for the dead. One common folk narrative is for a researcher to have lost hope of finding more information, only to miraculously find it in a book or cemetery. There are also many stories of spirits helping church members to perform their temple work for the dead or conveying their gratitude somehow.\n\nIn the 1850s and 1860s, Mormons used secular songs for worship and entertainment. They wrote their own poetry and set it to the familiar, secular tunes. One popular tune was \"The Sea.\" Early church leader W. W. Phelps composed lyrics to the tune, as did fellow pioneer Joseph Cain. Some songs satirized other religions, as in \"The God that others worship\" set to the tune \"The rose that all are praising.\" Mormons also penned songs about persecution and Joseph and Hyrum's death. Many songs about Brigham Young circulated, depicting Young as either a tyrannical leader with a troubled home life or a righteous leader whose guidance led the Mormons into prosperity. In the case of \"Brigham, Brigham Young,\" the song was accepted when performed by a Mormon for other Mormons, but incited a riot when performed for mixed company. L.M. Hilton's version of \"Hard Times\" emphasized optimism in the face of persecution; Hilton said that it was one of Brigham Young's favorite songs and that he would sing it to Mormons to cheer them up.\n\nRelating conversion narratives is one of the many ways Mormons express their faith. During monthly fast and testimony meeting held on Fast Sunday, some members voluntarily share their dedication to their faith in a ritualized way, including informal ritualized expressions. Some of these informal ritualized expressions are so frequent that members joke about playing \"testimony bingo\" when they hear commonly used phrases like \"I know beyond a shadow of a doubt\" or \"I know the church is true.\" Conversion narratives are commonly related by LDS members in a way that mirrors the conversion of Joseph Smith: as a search for knowledge leading to receiving the \"gift of true religious knowledge\" and conversion to the gospel. Folklore student Amy Ward studied the conversion narratives of lifelong members and adult converts to the LDS church. She found that adult converts were more likely to describe their conversion was part of a long, unconscious search for religious truth. Folklore scholar Eric Eliason notes that Mormons tend to prefer sincere, even humorous, conversion narratives over melodramatic or self-serving ones.\n\nMarriage confirmation narratives, told in communal cooperation settings, relate how people let God or a church leader decide whom they should marry. This helped them to overcome their anxiety about whom to choose to marry. The folk belief that there exists only one suitable marriage partner, perpetuated in Mormon media but not supported by Mormon theology, exacerbates this anxiety. Generally, marriage confirmation narratives support the idea that righteous living within Mormon expectations will lead to blessings like receiving spiritual revelation about who should become one's marriage partner and having a happy marriage. Such narratives help reinforce Mormon ideas about Mormons being a chosen community who receive special spiritual experiences, and help establish and fortify socially desirable behavior.\n\nSome Mormon women experience a vision of a future child that inspired them to have more children. If the next child is different from the child in the vision, the woman knows that the child is still \"coming\" and has another child. Margaret K. Brady documented this narrative type and sees it as a way to relieve Mormon women from the guilt they feel about thinking not to have more children, because the vision encourages them to change their mind and have more children. Sometimes these women share this experience in a visionary narrative. Telling the story reinforces the woman's spiritual identity, thus giving her a measure of power in her religious community.\n\nCreative date invitations are pervasive in the Idaho, Utah, and Arizona area, starting in the 1970s when young women were encouraged to ask young men to Sadie Hawkins dances. Folklorist Kristi Young writes that creative date invitations allowed young women to feel more comfortable asking young men on dates, since creative date invitations often do not require face-to-face interaction. Sometimes the recipient of a creative date invitation will accept even if they already have a significant other.\n\nThe LDS church encourages families to meet together in \"family home evening\" on Monday nights. Assignments for prayer, song, lesson, game, and treat are often rotated between family members on homemade charts. Certain rituals are performed during life events. After a baby is born, it is given a blessing, usually by their father with other male relatives and friends joining the blessing circle. Children are usually baptized at age eight, and receive a patriarchal blessing sometime in their teens. Young men and women may volunteer to be a missionary. In LDS funerals, the deceased wears their ceremonial temple clothing to be buried.\n\nThe first Pioneer Day was celebrated in 1849, with Mormons in Salt Lake City marching in wards, or congregational groups, around Temple Square in a show of patriotism. Many other towns in Utah had their own celebrations. Steven Olson notes that Pioneer Day celebrations reenact an idealized culture, providing a window into Mormon culture. Celebrations in the latter half of the 19th century emphasized how Mormons were a free, blessed, and chosen people. Floats and decorations celebrated agricultural bounties that Mormons saw as God blessing their settlement. Mormon leaders were escorted from their homes to the celebrations, where they participated as speakers. Parades separated participants by age and gender and celebrated traditional gender roles. Dances and sports competitions were common.\n\nIn Utah where Pioneer Day is an official holiday, the day is celebrated with fireworks and historical reenactments. However, outside of Utah, observance depends on local members; often a congregation will have pioneer-themed talks but no festivities. Dutch Mormons tend not to celebrate it, but in Germany, Pioneer Day is popular among Mormons.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, several performance art traditions helped revive folk arts. Church-wide folk-dancing festivals taught folk dancing to Mormon youth in the 1970s. Roadshows allowed members to exercise their creative talents on a smaller scale.\n\nIn some missions, it is common to burn clothing to mark special missionary anniversaries, such as a tie after six months of service and a shirt after one year.\n\nPine furniture, pottery, wool textiles, quilts, woodwork, decorative needlework, and toys have unique Mormon elements. In early Mormon history, pioneers gathered in Utah from Europe and other parts of the world, bringing their knowledge of handicrafts with them. Utah pioneers were isolated and had to make most of their own clothes and linens. They adapted the techniques they knew to the materials they had on hand. Local historian Shirley B. Paxman argues that the pioneers's limited materials combined with their isolation resulted in work that was not self-conscious. Since pioneer women did not think of themselves as artists, their decorative work was for their own or their family's simple pleasure. Pioneer women in Utah made their own yarn, linen thread and silk thread. In the 1870s, pioneer women sold their handicrafts in cooperative stores owned by the Relief Society. When handicrafts were no longer a necessity, they were promoted as improving mental health. \"Handicrafts for Women\", published by the Relief Society in 1935, encouraged women to learn handicrafts to relieve them of the monotony of housework. In the early 20th century, Relief Societies held monthly homemaking days to learn and practice household arts and crafts including needlework and quilting. In 1963, handicrafts saw a resurgence in popularity that coincided with the Relief Society Magazine's new feature on arts and crafts.\n\nRelief Society crafts are one way that folk art is disseminated between Mormons. In 1963, crafter Ruby Swallow made resin grapes using old Christmas ornaments as molds. She presented the craft at a stake homemaking activity, and soon after taught her technique in a local craft store. The craft remained unusually popular, and many homes in the Intermountain West had a set by the 1970s. Eleanor Zimmerman, who helped popularize the grapes, said that the craft was popular because it was handmade but \"looked store-bought.\" Mark L. Staker, a curator for the Museum of Church History and Art, believes that the staying power of resin grapes is partially because they were made as a community, and also because \"Relief Society Magazine\" began emphasizing arts and crafts in 1963. One popular genre of crafts turns inexpensive utilitarian objects into decorative ones.\n\nUtahns created a Utah quilt guild in 1977 to promote and preserve quilt making techniques. In documenting pioneer quilts, the Utah quilt guild found a wide variety of styles, including paper piecing, applique, and crazy quilt styles. Quilts were a common wedding gift. Pioneer quilts often featured natural imagery, with sego lilies and beehives being special symbols of Mormon pioneers. English and humanities professor Yvonne Milspaw studied contemporary American regional quilting and found that Utah Mormon quilters were the most innovative and relaxed about traditional quilt patterns. Pictoral quilts and quilts that incorporate memorabilia, like boy scout badges and silk-screened photos, were common. The annual Springville Quilt Show accepts both hand-stitched and machine-quilted quilts.\n\nHair jewellery and wreaths were among the popular handicrafts in the 19th century, especially in the 1860s and '70s. Hair flowers made by Mormons, like those in the rest of the United States, traditionally had a woman's hair for the petals and her husband's for the center. Watch chains made from hair were commonly sent to missionaries to remind them of family members. The Salt Lake temple entrance had a hair wreath containing hair from prominent church leaders on display until 1967. Hair wreaths containing hair from multiple people were displayed in public areas, symbolizing community unity.\nEarly Utah pioneers in 1847 used wood from hardwood packing boxes as material for furniture. Steam-driven lathes made Roman turned legs and furniture with spool-turned decoration popular. Leaders encouraged craftsmanship, and cabinetmakers made their own designs, usually influenced by fashionable designs like the Empire style. Furniture makers adapted designs to local softwoods like cottonwood, box elder, and red and yellow pine. The legs and spindles of furniture made with soft wood had to be thicker to accommodate the same amount of weight as furniture made with hardwood.\n\nIn the 1850s and 60s, furniture was in great demand, but by 1869, there were enough cabinetmakers to create a variety of competing styles. William Bell, a cabinetmaker from England, worked for Brigham Young and made a variety of simple yet fashionable pieces. He crafted a few unique pieces, including an octagonal rotating desk with painted graining to simulate other textures, and a reclining chair. Ralph Ramsay, another Mormon pioneer furniture maker, used Bell's workshop to carve a large eagle that decorated the entrance to Brigham Young's property. Ramsay carved many other details iconic to Mormon architecture, including the original oxen supporting baptismal fonts in temples, the casework for the Salt Lake Tabernacle organ, and an ornate personal bed.\nOther pioneer craftsmen tried to adapt to conditions in Utah. Potters made jars and pots for local needs. Local soil was high in alkali, and traditional glazes were ineffective. Pioneers preferred the cheaper factory-made pottery, and by the end of the 19th century, only Erich C. Henrichsen's pottery remained in business, selling unglazed machine-made flower pots. Blacksmiths recycled any metal they could find and had consistent work to do, shoeing horses and repairing farm equipment. By the 1890s, most craftsmen were struggling to support themselves, as they could not compete with factory-made goods brought by the railway. Since the church's emphasis on emergency preparedness, some Mormons have created storage space for preserved food inside furniture.\n\nRural Mormon settlements have several features that, when found together, distinguish them from non-Mormon settlements. These include wide roads, irrigation ditches, unpainted barns, and special wooden hay derricks. Lombardy poplars were often grown in rows to act as a windbreak, and streets were often numbered in grid fashion. A two-story symmetrical home with a chimney on either end was popular, and called \"I\"-style or \"Nauvoo\"-style homes. \"I\"-style homes were often built adjoining one another in \"L\", \"H\", or \"T\" style homes. Homes were often built using adobe.\n\nBrigham Young instructed pioneers to build \"beautiful\" houses, and from 1847–1890, architects experimented with various decorations they found in house pattern books. Greek revival-inspired decorations included window heads in pediment shape, entablature, and plain cornice returns. For Gothic revival decorations, architects used intricate bargeboards and spired finials to traditional house plans. Dormers were popular and were built in many varying styles. Late 19th-century styles like Victorian were not common. Traditional house plans came from Colonial Georgian architecture. External designs were usually bilaterally symmetric, with three distinct components, one of which was centered to preserve symmetry. Second-story windows were built direct above first-story windows in this style. Architectural eclecticism was common, and architects sometimes used unusual solutions to create symmetric facades.\nIn the 19th century, the most popular symbol for gravestones in the Mormon cultural region was that of two hands clasped, as if in a handshake. Carol Edison, former director of the Utah Art Council's Folk Arts Program, interprets the symbol as having multiple meanings, representing either a goodbye to living relatives or a greeting to deceased relatives. The clasped hands design was especially popular for upright marble grave markers. Starting around 1910, images of temples on gravestones appeared, reinforcing Mormon beliefs about families remaining together after death. With sandblasting technology in the 1960s, carving images of temples became much easier. Over a quarter of gravestone orders in 2013 included a temple image. Many temple gravestones include the names of husband and wife on the same gravestone and the date of their temple sealing. The names of the children of the couple are sometimes also listed on the gravestone, showing the importance of the family unit.\n\nFundamentalist communities practice polygamy. A few sects practice arranged marriages, but it is \"probably more common\" for spouses to court a wife through religious persuasion. Fundamentalists describe their practice of polygamy as a vital part of their religious devotion. Family organization depends on individual style; in some families the first wife takes a superior role to the younger wives; in others, they are scrupulously treated equally. Traditional dances are popular, especially the double scottische. Modest but modern clothing is common. Fundamentalist communities strongly value frugal cooperative self-reliance, often home-schooling their children and relying on alternative medicine. Many families receive financial assistance from the government. Past government raids provide touchstones for communal memory, and members recount their own and their ancestors's experiences with persecution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5750245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5750245", "title": "PropBank", "text": "PropBank\n\nPropBank is a corpus that is annotated with verbal propositions and their arguments—a \"proposition bank\". Although \"PropBank\" refers to a specific corpus produced by Martha Palmer \"et al.\", the term \"propbank\" is also coming to be used as a common noun referring to any corpus that has been annotated with propositions and their arguments.\n\nThe PropBank project has played a role in recent research in natural language processing, and has been used in semantic role labelling.\n\nPropBank differs from FrameNet, the resource to which it is most frequently compared, in several ways.\n\nPropBank is a verb-oriented resource, while FrameNet is centered on the more abstract notion of frames, which generalizes descriptions across similar verbs (e.g. \"describe\" and \"characterize\") as well as nouns and other words (e.g. \"description\"). PropBank does not annotate events or states of affairs described using nouns. PropBank commits to annotating all verbs in a corpus, whereas the FrameNet project chooses sets of example sentences from a large corpus and only in a few cases has annotated longer continuous stretches of text.\n\nPropBank-style annotations often remain close to the syntactic level, while FrameNet-style annotations are sometimes more semantically motivated. From the start, PropBank was developed with the idea of serving as training data for machine learning-based semantic role labeling systems in mind. It requires that all arguments to a verb be syntactic constituents and different senses of a word are only distinguished if the differences bear on the arguments. Due to such differences, semantic role labeling with respect to PropBank is often a somewhat easier task than producing FrameNet-style annotations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25520", "title": "Reggae", "text": "Reggae\n\nReggae () is a music genre that originated in Jamaica in the late 1960s. The term also denotes the modern popular music of Jamaica and its diaspora. A 1968 single by Toots and the Maytals, \"Do the Reggay\" was the first popular song to use the word \"reggae,\" effectively naming the genre and introducing it to a global audience. While sometimes used in a broad sense to refer to most types of popular Jamaican dance music, the term \"reggae\" more properly denotes a particular music style that was strongly influenced by traditional mento as well as American jazz and rhythm and blues, especially the New Orleans R&B practiced by Fats Domino and Allen Toussaint, and evolved out of the earlier genres ska and rocksteady. Reggae usually relates news, social gossip, and political comment. Reggae spread into a commercialized jazz field, being known first as ‘Rudie Blues’, then ‘Ska’, later ‘Blue Beat’, and ‘Rock Steady’. It is instantly recognizable from the counterpoint between the bass and drum downbeat, and the offbeat rhythm section. The immediate origins of reggae were in ska and rocksteady; from the latter, reggae took over the use of the bass as a percussion instrument.\n\nReggae is deeply linked to the Rastafari, an africa-centred religion which developed in Jamaica in the 1930's, aiming at promoting Pan Africanism. Soon after the Rastafarian movement appeared, the international popularity of reggae music became associated with and increased the visibility of Rastafarianism spreading the Rastafari gospel throughout the world. Reggae music is an important means of transporting vital messages of Rastafarianism. The musician becomes the messenger, and as Rastafarians see it,\"the soldier and the musician are tools for change.\"\n\nStylistically, reggae incorporates some of the musical elements of rhythm and blues, jazz, mento (a celebratory, rural folk form that served its largely rural audience as dance music and an alternative to the hymns and adapted chanteys of local church singing), calypso, and also draws influence from traditional African folk rhythms. One of the most easily recognizable elements is offbeat rhythms; staccato chords played by a guitar or piano (or both) on the offbeats of the measure. The tempo of reggae is usually slower paced than ska but faster than rocksteady. The concept of call and response can be found throughout reggae music.The genre of reggae music is led by the drum and bass. Some key players in this sound are Jackie Jackson from Toots and the Maytals, Carlton Barrett from Bob Marley and the Wailers, Lloyd Brevett from The Skatalites, Paul Douglas from Toots and the Maytals, Lloyd Knibb from The Skatalites, Winston Grennan, Sly Dunbar, and Anthony \"Benbow\" Creary from The Upsetters. The bass guitar often plays the dominant role in reggae. The bass sound in reggae is thick and heavy, and equalized so the upper frequencies are removed and the lower frequencies emphasized. The guitar in reggae usually plays on the off beat of the rhythm. It is common for reggae to be sung in Jamaican Patois, Jamaican English, and Iyaric dialects. Reggae is noted for its tradition of social criticism and religion in its lyrics, although many reggae songs discuss lighter, more personal subjects, such as love and socializing.\n\nReggae has spread to many countries across the world, often incorporating local instruments and fusing with other genres. Reggae en Español spread from the Spanish speaking Central American country of Panama to the mainland South American countries of Venezuela and Guyana then to the rest of South America. Caribbean music in the United Kingdom, including reggae, has been popular since the late 1960s, and has evolved into several subgenres and fusions. Many reggae artists began their careers in the UK, and there have been a number of European artists and bands drawing their inspiration directly from Jamaica and the Caribbean community in Europe. Reggae in Africa was boosted by the visit of Bob Marley to Zimbabwe in 1980. In Jamaica, authentic reggae is one of the biggest sources of income.\n\nThe 1967 edition of the \"Dictionary of Jamaican English\" lists \"reggae\" as \"a recently estab. sp. for \"rege\"\", as in \"rege-rege\", a word that can mean either \"rags, ragged clothing\" or \"a quarrel, a row\". \"Reggae\" as a musical term first appeared in print with the 1968 rocksteady hit \"Do the Reggay\" by The Maytals which named the genre of Reggae for the world.\n\nReggae historian Steve Barrow credits Clancy Eccles with altering the Jamaican patois word \"streggae\" (loose woman) into \"reggae\". However, Toots Hibbert said:\n\nThere's a word we used to use in Jamaica called 'streggae'. If a girl is walking and the guys look at her and say 'Man, she's streggae' it means she don't dress well, she look raggedy. The girls would say that about the men too. This one morning me and my two friends were playing and I said, 'OK man, let's do the reggay.' It was just something that came out of my mouth. So we just start singing 'Do the reggay, do the reggay' and created a beat. People tell me later that we had given the sound its name. Before that people had called it blue-beat and all kind of other things. Now it's in the Guinness World of Records.\n\nBob Marley is said to have claimed that the word \"reggae\" came from a Spanish term for \"the king's music\". The liner notes of \"To the King\", a compilation of Christian gospel reggae, suggest that the word \"reggae\" was derived from the Latin \"regi\" meaning \"to the king\".\n\nAlthough strongly influenced by traditional mento and calypso music, as well as American jazz and rhythm and blues, reggae owes its direct origins to the ska and rocksteady of 1960s Jamaica. The generic title for Jamaican music recorded between 1961 and 1967, ska emerged from Jamaican R&B, which was based largely on American R&B and doo-wop. Rastafari entered some countries primarily through reggae music; thus, the movement in these places is more stamped by its origins in reggae music and social milieu. The Rastafari movement was a significant influence on reggae, with Rasta drummers like Count Ossie taking part in seminal recordings. One of the predecessors of reggae drumming is the Nyabinghi rhythm, a style of ritual drumming performed as a communal meditative practice in the Rastafarian life.\n\nSka arose in Jamaican studios in the late 1950s, developing from American R&B, mento and calypso music. Ska is characterized by a quarter note walking bass line, guitar and piano offbeats, and a drum pattern with cross-stick snare and bass drum on the backbeat and open hi-hat on the offbeats (with nothing on beats one and three). It is also notable for its jazz-influenced horn riffs. Jamaica gained its independence in 1962, and ska became the music of choice for Jamaican youths seeking music that was their own. Ska also became popular among mods in Britain.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Rocksteady emerged, a genre slower than ska featuring more romantic lyrics and less prominent horns. The name was later solidified after the release of a single by Alton Ellis. There are many theories as to why Jamaican musicians slowed the ska tempo to create rocksteady; one is that the singer Hopeton Lewis was unable to sing his hit song \"Take It Easy\" at a ska tempo. Many rocksteady rhythms later were used as the basis of reggae recordings. The \"double skank\" guitar strokes on the offbeat were part of the new reggae style.\n\nReggae developed from ska and rocksteady in the 1960s. Larry And Alvin’s ‘Nanny Goat’ and the Beltones’ ‘No More Heartaches’ competed for the status of first reggae record. The beat was distinctive from rocksteady in that it dropped any of the pretensions to the smooth, soulful sound that characterized slick American R&B, and instead was closer in kinship to US southern funk, being heavily dependent on the rhythm section to drive it along. Reggae’s great advantage was its almost limitless flexibility: from the early, jerky sound of Lee Perry’s ‘People Funny Boy’, to the uptown sounds of Third World’s ‘Now That We’ve Found Love’, it was an enormous leap through the years and styles, yet both are instantly recognizable as reggae. The shift from rocksteady to reggae was illustrated by the organ shuffle pioneered by Jamaican musicians like Jackie Mittoo and Winston Wright and featured in transitional singles \"Say What You're Saying\" (1968) by Eric \"Monty\" Morris and \"People Funny Boy\" (1968) by Lee \"Scratch\" Perry. The Pioneers' 1968 track \"Long Shot (Bus' Me Bet)\" has been identified as the earliest recorded example of the new rhythm sound that became known as reggae.\n\nEarly 1968 was when the first \"bona fide\" reggae records were released: \"Nanny Goat\" by Larry Marshall and \"No More Heartaches\" by The Beltones. That same year, the newest Jamaican sound began to spawn big-name imitators in other countries. American artist Johnny Nash's 1968 hit \"Hold Me Tight\" has been credited with first putting reggae in the American listener charts. Around the same time, reggae influences were starting to surface in rock and pop music, one example being 1968's \"Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da\" by The Beatles.\n\nThe Wailers, a band started by Bob Marley, Peter Tosh and Bunny Wailer in 1963, is perhaps the most recognized band that made the transition through all three stages of early Jamaican popular music: ska, rocksteady and reggae. Over a dozen Wailers songs are based on or use a line from Jamaican mento songs. In 1951, recordings of mento music began to be released. These recordings showcased two styles of mento: an acoustic, rural style and a jazzy, popular style. Other significant reggae pioneers include Prince Buster, Desmond Dekker and Ken Boothe.\n\nHowever, another pioneer was Millie Small (born 6 October 1946), a Jamaican singer-songwriter, best known for her 1964 blue-beat/ska cover version of \"My Boy Lollipop\" which was a smash hit internationally.\n\nNotable Jamaican producers influential in the development of ska into rocksteady and reggae include: Coxsone Dodd, Lee \"Scratch\" Perry, Leslie Kong, Duke Reid, Joe Gibbs and King Tubby. Chris Blackwell, who founded Island Records in Jamaica in 1960, relocated to England in 1962, where he continued to promote Jamaican music. He formed a partnership with Lee Gopthal's Trojan Records in 1968, which released reggae in the UK until bought by Saga records in 1974.\n\nReggae's influence bubbled to the top of the U.S. \"Billboard\" Hot 100 charts in late 1972. First Three Dog Night hit #1 in September with a cover of the Maytones' version of \"Black and White\". Then Johnny Nash was at #1 for four weeks in November with \"I Can See Clearly Now\". Paul Simon's single \"Mother And Child Reunion\" - a track which he recorded in Kingston, Jamaica with Jimmy Cliff's backing group - was ranked by Billboard as the No. 57 song of 1972.\n\nIn 1973, the film \"The Harder They Come\" starring Jimmy Cliff was released and introduced Jamaican music to cinema audiences outside Jamaica. Though the film achieved cult status its limited appeal meant that it had a smaller impact than Eric Clapton's 1974 cover of Bob Marley's \"I Shot the Sheriff\" which made it onto the playlists of mainstream rock and pop radio stations worldwide. Clapton's \"I Shot The Sheriff\" used modern rock production and recording techniques and faithfully retained most of the original reggae elements; it was a breakthrough pastiche devoid of any parody and played an important part in bringing the music of Bob Marley to a wider rock audience. By the mid-1970s, authentic reggae dub plates and specials were getting some exposure in the UK on John Peel's radio show, who promoted the genre for the rest of his career. Around the same time, British filmmaker Jeremy Marre documented the Jamaican music scene in \"Roots Rock Reggae\", capturing the heyday of Roots reggae.\n\nIn the late 1970s and early 1980s, the UK punk rock scene flourished, and reggae was a notable influence. The DJ Don Letts would play reggae and punk tracks at clubs such as The Roxy. Punk bands such as The Clash, The Ruts, The Members and The Slits played many reggae-influenced songs. Around the same time, reggae music took a new path in the UK; one that was created by the multiracial makeup of England's inner cities and exemplified by groups like Steel Pulse, Aswad and UB40, as well as artists such as Smiley Culture and Carroll Thompson. The Jamaican ghetto themes in the lyrics were replaced with UK inner city themes, and Jamaican patois became intermingled with Cockney slang. In South London around this time, a new subgenre of Lovers Rock, was being created. Unlike the Jamaican music of the same name which was mainly dominated by male artists such as Gregory Isaacs, the South London genre was led by female singers like Thompson and Janet Kay. The UK Lovers Rock had a softer and more commercial sound.Other reggae artists who enjoyed international appeal in the early 1980s include Third World, Black Uhuru and Sugar Minott. The Grammy Awards introduced the Grammy Award for Best Reggae Album category in 1985.\n\nWomen also play a role in the reggae music industry personnel such as Olivia Grange, president of Specs-Shang Musik; Trish Farrell, president of Island/Jamaica; Lisa Cortes, president of Loose Cannon; Jamaican-American Sharon Gordon, who has worked in the independent reggae music industry.\n\nIn November 2018 \"reggae music of Jamaica\" was added to the UNESCO's Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity the decision recognised reggae's \"contribution to international discourse on issues of injustice, resistance, love and humanity underscores the dynamics of the element as being at once cerebral, socio-political, sensual and spiritual.\"\n\nJamaican Prime Minister Bruce Golding made February 2008 the first annual Reggae Month in Jamaica. To celebrate, the Recording Industry Association of Jamaica (RIAJam) held its first Reggae Academy Awards on February 24, 2008. In addition, Reggae Month included a six-day Global Reggae conference, a reggae film festival, two radio station award functions, and a concert tribute to the late Dennis Brown, who Bob Marley cited as his favorite singer. On the business side, RIAJam held events focused on reggae's employment opportunities and potential international revenue.\n\nStylistically, reggae incorporates some of the musical elements of rhythm and blues (R&B), jazz, mento, calypso, African, and Latin American music, as well as other genres. Reggae scenes consist of two guitars, one for rhythm and one for lead—drums, congas, and keyboards, with a couple vocalists.\n\nReggae is played in time because the symmetrical rhythmic pattern does not lend itself to other time signatures such as . One of the most easily recognizable elements is offbeat rhythms; staccato chords played by a guitar or piano (or both) on the offbeats of the measure, often referred to as the skank.\n\nThis rhythmic pattern accents the second and fourth beats in each bar and combines with the drum's emphasis on beat three to create a unique sense of phrasing. The reggae offbeat can be counted so that it falls between each count as an \"and\" (example: 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and, etc.) or counted as a half-time feel at twice the tempo so it falls on beats 2 and 4. This is in contrast to the way most other popular genres focus on beat one, the \"downbeat\".\n\nThe tempo of reggae is usually slower than ska but faster than rocksteady. It is this slower tempo, the guitar/piano offbeats, the emphasis on the third beat, and the use of syncopated, melodic bass lines that differentiate reggae from other music, although other musical styles have incorporated some of these innovations.\n\nHarmonically the music is essentially the same as any other modern popular genre with a tendency to make use of simple chord progressions. Reggae sometimes uses the dominant chord in its minor form therefore never allowing a perfect cadence to be sounded; this lack of resolution between the tonic and the dominant imparts a sense of movement \"without rest\" and harmonic ambiguity. Extended chords like the major seventh chord (\"Waiting in Vain\" by Bob Marley) and minor seventh chord are used though suspended chords or diminished chords are rare. Minor keys are commonly used especially with the minor chord forms of the subdominant and dominant chord (for example in the key of G minor the progression may be played Gm – Dm – Gm – Dm – Cm – Dm – Cm – Dm). A simple progression borrowed from rhythm and blues and soul music is the tonic chord followed by the minor supertonic chord with the two chords repeated continuously to form a complete verse (\"Just My Imagination\" by The Temptations C – Dm).\n\nThe concept of \"call and response\" can be found throughout reggae music, in the vocals but also in the way parts are composed and arranged for each instrument. The emphasis on the \"third beat\" of the bar also results in a different sense of musical phrasing, with bass lines and melody lines often emphasizing what might be considered \"pick up notes\" in other genres.\n\nA standard drum kit is generally used in reggae, but the snare drum is often tuned very high to give it a timbales-type sound. Some reggae drummers use an additional timbale or high-tuned snare to get this sound. Cross-stick technique on the snare drum is commonly used, and tom-tom drums are often incorporated into the drumbeat itself.\n\nReggae drumbeats fall into three main categories: \"One drop\", \"Rockers\", and \"Steppers\". With the \"One drop\", the emphasis is entirely on the backbeat (usually on the snare, or as a rim shot combined with bass drum). Beat one is empty except for a closed high hat commonly used, which is unusual in popular music. There is some controversy about whether reggae should be counted so that this beat falls on two and four, or whether it should be counted twice as fast, so it falls on three. An example played by Barrett can be heard in the Bob Marley and the Wailers song \"One Drop\". Barrett often used an unusual triplet cross-rhythm on the hi-hat, which can be heard on many recordings by Bob Marley and the Wailers, such as \"Running Away\" on the \"Kaya\" album.\nAn emphasis on the backbeat is found in all reggae drumbeats, but with the \"Rockers\" beat, the emphasis is on all four beats of the bar (usually on bass drum). This beat was pioneered by Sly and Robbie, who later helped create the \"Rub-a-Dub\" sound that greatly influenced dancehall. Sly has stated he was influenced to create this style by listening to American drummer Earl Young as well as other disco and R&B drummers in the early to mid-1970s, as stated in the book \"Wailing Blues\". The prototypical example of the style is found in Sly Dunbar's drumming on \"Right Time\" by the Mighty Diamonds. The \"Rockers\" beat is not always straightforward, and various syncopations are often included. An example of this is the Black Uhuru song \"Sponji Reggae\".\n\nIn \"Steppers\", the bass drum plays every quarter beat of the bar, giving the beat an insistent drive. An example is \"Exodus\" by Bob Marley and the Wailers. Another common name for the \"Steppers\" beat is the \"four on the floor\". Burning Spear's 1975 song \"Red, Gold, and Green\" (with Leroy Wallace on drums) is one of the earliest examples. The \"Steppers\" beat was adopted (at a much higher tempo) by some 2 Tone ska revival bands of the late 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nAn unusual characteristic of reggae drumming is that the drum fills often do not end with a climactic cymbal. A wide range of other percussion instrumentation are used in reggae. Bongos are often used to play free, improvised patterns, with heavy use of African-style cross-rhythms. Cowbells, claves and shakers tend to have more defined roles and a set pattern.\n\nReggae drummers often involved these three tips for other reggae performers: (1) go for open, ringing tones when playing ska and rocksteady, (2) use any available material to stuff the bass drum so that it tightens up the kick to a deep, punchy thud, and (3) go without a ride cymbal, focusing on the hi-hat for timekeeping and thin crashes with fast decay for accents.\n\nThe bass guitar often plays the dominant role in reggae, and the drum and bass is often the most important part of what is called, in Jamaican music, a \"riddim\" (rhythm), a (usually simple) piece of music that's used repeatedly by different artists to write and record songs with. Literally hundreds of reggae singers have released different songs recorded over the same rhythm. The central role of the bass can be particularly heard in dub music — which gives an even bigger role to the drum and bass line, reducing the vocals and other instruments to peripheral roles.\n\nThe bass sound in reggae is thick and heavy, and equalized so the upper frequencies are removed and the lower frequencies emphasized. The bass line is often a repeated two or four bar riff when simple chord progressions are used. The simplest example of this might be Robbie Shakespeare's bass line for the Black Uhuru hit \"Shine Eye Gal\". In the case of more complex harmonic structures, such as John Holt's version of \"Stranger In Love\", these simpler patterns are altered to follow the chord progression either by directly moving the pattern around or by changing some of the interior notes in the phrase to better support the chords.\n\nThe guitar in reggae usually plays on the off beat of the rhythm. So if one is counting in time and counting 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 +, one would play a downstroke on the \"and\" part of the beat. A musical figure known as skank or the 'bang\" has a very dampened, short and scratchy chop sound, almost like a percussion instrument. Sometimes a double chop is used when the guitar still plays the off beats, but also plays the following eighth-note beats on the up-stroke. An example is the intro to \"Stir It Up\" by The Wailers. Artist and producer Derrick Harriott says, “What happened was the musical thing was real widespread, but only among a certain sort of people. It was always a down-town thing, but more than just hearing the music. The equipment was so powerful and the vibe so strong that we feel it.”\n\nFrom the earliest days of Ska recordings, a piano was used to double the rhythm guitar's skank, playing the chords in a \"staccato\" style to add body, and playing occasional extra beats, runs and riffs. The piano part was widely taken over by synthesizers during the 1980s, although synthesizers have been used in a peripheral role since the 1970s to play incidental melodies and countermelodies. Larger bands may include either an additional keyboardist, to cover or replace horn and melody lines, or the main keyboardist filling these roles on two or more keyboards.\n\nThe reggae organ-shuffle is unique to reggae. In the original version of reggae, the drummer played a reggae groove that was used in the four bar introduction, allowing the piano to serve as a percussion instrument. Typically, a Hammond organ-style sound is used to play chords with a choppy feel. This is known as the \"bubble\". This may be the most difficult reggae keyboard rhythm. The organ bubble can be broken down into 2 basic patterns. In the first, the 8th beats are played with a space-left-right-left-space-left-right-left pattern, where the spaces represent downbeats not played—that and the left-right-left falls on the ee-and-a, or and-2-and if counted at double time. In the second basic pattern, the left hand plays a double chop as described in the guitar section while the right hand plays longer notes on beat 2 (or beat 3 if counted at double time) or a syncopated pattern between the double chops. Both these patterns can be expanded on and improvised embellishments are sometimes used.\n\nHorn sections are frequently used in reggae, often playing introductions and counter-melodies. Instruments included in a typical reggae horn section include saxophone, trumpet or trombone. In more recent times, real horns are sometimes replaced in reggae by synthesizers or recorded samples. The horn section is often arranged around the first horn, playing a simple melody or counter melody. The first horn is usually accompanied by the second horn playing the same melodic phrase in unison, one octave higher. The third horn usually plays the melody an octave and a fifth higher than the first horn. The horns are generally played fairly softly, usually resulting in a soothing sound. However, sometimes punchier, louder phrases are played for a more up-tempo and aggressive sound.\n\nThe vocals in reggae are less of a defining characteristic of the genre than the instrumentation and rhythm, as almost any song can be performed in a reggae style. However, it is very common for reggae to be sung in Jamaican Patois, Jamaican English, and Iyaric dialects. Vocal harmony parts are often used, either throughout the melody (as with vocal groups such as the Mighty Diamonds), or as a counterpoint to the main vocal line (as with the backing vocalists, the I-Threes). More complex vocal arrangements can be found in the works of groups like The Abyssinians and British reggae band Steel Pulse.\n\nAn unusual aspect of reggae singing is that many singers use \"tremolo\" (volume oscillation) rather than \"vibrato\" (pitch oscillation). Notable exponents of this technique include Horace Andy and vocal group Israel Vibration. The toasting vocal style is unique to reggae, originating when DJs improvised spoken introductions to songs (or \"toasts\") to the point where it became a distinct rhythmic vocal style, and is generally considered to be a precursor to rap. It differs from rap mainly in that it is generally melodic, while rap is generally more a spoken form without melodic content.\n\nReggae is noted for its tradition of social criticism in its lyrics, although many reggae songs discuss lighter, more personal subjects, such as love and socializing. Many early reggae bands covered Motown or Atlantic soul and funk songs. Some reggae lyrics attempt to raise the political consciousness of the audience, such as by criticizing materialism, or by informing the listener about controversial subjects such as Apartheid. Many reggae songs promote the use of cannabis (also known as \"herb\", \"ganja\", or \"sinsemilla\"), considered a sacrament in the Rastafari movement. There are many artists who utilize religious themes in their music — whether it be discussing a specific religious topic, or simply giving praise to God (Jah). Other common socio-political topics in reggae songs include black nationalism, anti-racism, anti-colonialism, anti-capitalism and criticism of political systems and \"Babylon\".\n\nIn recent years, Jamaican (and non-Jamaican) reggae musicians have used more positive themes in reggae music. The music is widely considered a treasured cultural export for Jamaica, so musicians who still desire progress for their island nation have begun focusing on themes of hopefulness, faith, and love. For elementary children, reggae songs such as \"Give a Little Love,\" \"One Love,\" or \"Three Little Birds,\" all written by Bob Marley, can be sung and enjoyed for their optimism and cheerful lyrics.\n\nThe wide cultural exposure which has enhanced the recognizability of reggae has been achieved primarily through a corporate commercialization effected at the expense of both the lyrical and instrumental essence of the music. This process has involved coerced or voluntary assimilation of more commercially compatible characteristics, appropriation by white mainstream artists, and an overall dispersal of ideological and musical meaning and creative value.The mainstream Euro-American audience has continually demonstrated a propensity for adopting reggae-oriented material on the basis of its aesthetically pleasing surface qualities rather than for explicitly political or deeper musical content, causing authenticity problems for reggae fans.\n\nSome dancehall and ragga artists have been criticised for homophobia, including threats of violence. Buju Banton's song \"Boom Bye-Bye\" states that gays \"haffi dead\". Other notable dancehall artists who have been accused of homophobia include Elephant Man, Bounty Killer and Beenie Man. The controversy surrounding anti-gay lyrics has led to the cancellation of UK tours by Beenie Man and Sizzla. Toronto, Canada has also seen the cancellation of concerts due to artists such as Elephant Man and Sizzla refusing to conform to similar censorship pressures.\n\nAfter lobbying from the Stop Murder Music coalition, the dancehall music industry agreed in 2005 to stop releasing songs that promote hatred and violence against gay people. In June 2007, Beenie Man, Sizzla and Capleton signed up to the Reggae Compassionate Act, in a deal brokered with top dancehall promoters and Stop Murder Music activists. They renounced homophobia and agreed to \"not make statements or perform songs that incite hatred or violence against anyone from any community\". Five artists targeted by the anti-homophobia campaign did not sign up to the act, including Elephant Man, TOK, Bounty Killa and Vybz Kartel. Buju Banton and Beenie Man both gained positive press coverage around the world for publicly renouncing homophobia by signing the Reggae Compassion Act. However, both of these artists have since denied any involvement in anti-homophobia work and both deny having signed any such act.\n\nFor many years vinyl has been of central importance to the Jamaican music industry, playing a significant cultural and economic role in the development of reggae music. \"In the early 1950's \"(sic)\", Jamaican entrepreneurs began issuing 78s\" but this format would soon be superseded by the 7\" single, first released in 1949. The first 7\" singles to appear in Jamaica around this time were often covers of popular American RnB hits, made by Kingston sound system operators to be played in the dance. \"Meanwhile, Jamaican expatriates started issuing 45s on small UK independents, typically featuring graphics-free logos. Though the quality of foreign pressing was typically better, some were actually mastered from Jamaican 45s and many were totally unauthorised\".\n\nOil Crisis\n\nThe quality of 7\" singles produced in Jamaica took a dramatic turn for the worse following the oil crisis of the 1970s.\n\n45 rpm adapter\n\nThe 45 rpm adapter is crucial when playing 7\" singles which feature a cut out middle.\n\nReggae has spread to many countries across the world, often incorporating local instruments and fusing with other genres. In November 2018 UNESCO added the \"reggae music of Jamaica\" to the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.\n\nReggae en Español spread from mainland South American Caribbean from Venezuela and Guyana to the rest of South America. It does not have any specific characteristics other than being sung in Spanish, usually by artists of Latin American origin. Samba reggae originated in Brazil as a blend of samba with Jamaican reggae. Reggae also has a presence in Veracruz, Mexico. The most notable Jarocho reggae group being Los Aguas Aguas from Xalapa. Some of the most popular reggae groups across Latin America come from the Southern Cone, such as the Chilean band Gondwana, and the Argentinian band Los Cafres. The Puerto Rican band Cultura Profética is also widely recognized in the region. Hispanic reggae includes three elements: the incorporation of the Spanish language; the use of translations and versions based on known riddims and background music; and regional consciousness. It is a medium of rebellious contestation rising from the underground. Hispanic reggae is related to rap, sharing characteristics that can be found not only in the social conditions in which they developed in the region but also in the characteristics of social sectors and classes that welcome them.\n\nBrazilian samba-reggae utilized themes such as the U.S. African-American civil rights movement and the Black Soul movement, and especially the Jamaican independence movement since the 1960s and its messages in reggae and Rastafarianism. Thus, the sudden popularity of reggae music and musicians in Bahia, Brazil, was not the result of the effects of the transnational music industry, but of the need to establish cultural and political links with black communities across the Americas that had faced and were facing similar sociopolitical situations.\n\nMusically, it was the bloco afro Olodum and its lead percussionist, Neguinho do Samba, that began to combine the basic samba beat of the blocos with merengue, salsa, and reggae rhythms and debuted their experimentations in the carnival of 1986. The new toques (drumming patterns) were labeled \"samba-reggae\" and consisted basically of a pattern in which the surdo bass drums (four of them at the minimum) divided themselves into four or five interlocking parts.\n\nIn the state of Maranhão, in northeastern Brazil, reggae is a very popular rhythm. São Luis, the state capital, is known as the Brazilian Jamaica. The city has more than 200 \"radiolas\", name given to sound teams formed by DJs and sound systems with dozens of powerful amplifiers boxes stacked. Reggae in Maranhão has its own characteristics, such as melody and the way of dancing, as well as having its own radio and television programs. In 2018, the was inaugurated, the second reggae museum in the world (after Jamaica), with the objective of preserving the reggae culture history in the state.\n\nIn the United States, bands like Rebelution, Slightly Stoopid, Stick Figure, and SOJA are considered progressive reggae bands sometimes referred to as Cali Reggae or Pacific Dub. The American reggae scene is heavily centred in Southern California, with large scenes also in New York City, Washington, D.C., Chicago, Miami, and Honolulu. For decades, Hawaiian reggae has had a big following on the Hawaiian islands and the West coast of the US. On the east coast upstate NY has seen a rise in original roots reggae bands such as Giant Panda Guerilla Dub Squad and John Brown's Body who were inspired by Jamaican reggae bands that performed in the area back in the 80s and 90s. Matisyahu gained prominence by blending traditional Jewish themes with reggae. Compounding his use of the hazzan style, Matisyahu's lyrics are mostly English with more than occasional use of Hebrew and Yiddish. There is a large Caribbean presence in Toronto and Montreal, Canada, with English and French influences on the reggae genre. Canadian band Magic!'s 2013 single \"Rude\" was an international hit.\n\nIn 2017, Toots and the Maytals became the second reggae-based group to ever perform at the Coachella festival, after Chronixx in 2016.\n\nThe UK was a primary destination for Caribbean people looking to emigrate as early as the 1950s. Because of this, Caribbean music in the United Kingdom, including reggae, has been popular since the late 1960s, and has evolved into several subgenres and fusions. Most notable of these is lovers rock, but this fusion of Jamaican music into English culture was seminal in the formation of other musical forms like drum and bass and dubstep. The UK became the base from which many Jamaican artists toured Europe and due to the large number of Jamaican musicians emigrating there, the UK is the root of the larger European scene that exists today. Many of the world's most famous reggae artists began their careers in UK. Singer and Grammy Award-winning reggae artist Maxi Priest began his career with seminal British sound system Saxon Studio International.\n\nThree reggae-tinged singles from the Police's 1978 debut album, \"Outlandos d'Amour\", laid down the template for the basic structure of a lot of rock/reggae songwriting: a reggae-infused verse containing upstrokes on guitar or keyboards and a more aggressive, on-the-beat punk/rock attack during the chorus. The end of the 1970s featured a ska revival in the UK. By the end of the '70s, a revival movement had begun in England, with such bands as the Specials, Madness, the (English) Beat, and the Selecter. The Specials' leader and keyboardist, Jerry Dammers, founded the 2 Tone record label, which released albums from the aforementioned racially integrated groups and was instrumental in creating a new social and cultural awareness. The 2 Tone movement referenced reggae's godfathers, popular styles (including the genre's faster and more dance-oriented precursors, ska and rocksteady), and previous modes of dress (such as black suits and porkpie hats) but updated the sound with a faster tempo, more guitar, and more attitude.\n\nBirmingham based reggae/pop music band UB40 were main contributors to the British reggae scene throughout the 1980s and 1990s. The achieved international success with hits such as \"Red Red Wine,\" \"Kingston Town\" and \"(I can't Help) Falling in Love with You.\"\n\nOther UK based artists that had international impact include Aswad, Misty In Roots, Steel Pulse, Janet Kay, Tippa Irie, Smiley Culture and more recently Bitty McLean. There have been a number of European artists and bands drawing their inspiration directly from Jamaica and the Caribbean community in Europe, whose music and vocal styles are almost identical to contemporary Jamaican music. The best examples might be Alborosie (Italy) and Gentleman (Germany). Both Gentleman and Alborosie have had a significant chart impact in Jamaica, unlike many European artists. They have both recorded and released music in Jamaica for Jamaican labels and producers and are popular artists, likely to appear on many riddims. Alborosie has lived in Jamaica since the late 1990s and has recorded at Bob Marley's famous Tuff Gong Studios. Since the early 1990s, several Italian reggae bands have emerged, including Africa Unite, Gaudi, Reggae National Tickets, Sud Sound System, Pitura Freska and B.R. Stylers. Another Italian famous reggae singer was Rino Gaetano.\n\nReggae appeared on the Yugoslav popular music scene in the late 1970s, through sporadic songs by popular rock acts. Reggae saw an expansion with the emergence of Yugoslav new wave scene. The bands like Haustor, Šarlo Akrobata, Aerodrom, Laboratorija Zvuka, Piloti, Du Du A and others recorded reggae and reggae-influence songs. In the mid-1980s appeared Del Arno Band, often considered the first real reggae band in Yugoslavia. Throughout the following decades they remained one of the most popular and influential reggae bands in the region. In the 1990s and early 2000s, after the breakup of Yugoslavia, appeared a new generation of reggae bands, like Serbian band Eyesburn, which gained popularity with their combination of reggae with hardcore punk and crossover thrash, and Croatian band Radikal Dub Kolektiv, alongside bands which incorporated reggae into their sound, like Darkwood Dub, Kanda, Kodža i Nebojša and Lira Vega in Serbia and Dubioza Kolektiv in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Late 2000s and 2010s brought a new generation of reggae acts in the region.\n\nThe first homegrown Polish reggae bands started in the 1980s with groups like Izraelario. Singer and songwriter Alexander Barykin was considered as the father of Russian reggae. In Sweden, Uppsala Reggae Festival attracts attendees from across Northern Europe, and features Swedish reggae bands such as Rootvälta and Svenska Akademien as well as many popular Jamaican artists. Summerjam, Europe's biggest reggae festival, takes place in Cologne, Germany and sees crowds of 25,000 or more. Rototom Sunsplash, a week-long festival which used to take place in Osoppo, Italy, until 2009, is now held in Benicassim, Spain and gathers up to 150,000 visitors every year.\n\nIn Iceland reggae band Hjálmar is well established having released six CDs in Iceland. They were the first reggae band in Iceland, but few Icelandic artists had written songs in the reggae style before their showing up at the Icelandic music scene. The Icelandic reggae scene is expanding and growing at a fast rate. RVK Soundsystem is the first Icelandic sound system, counting 5 DJ's. They hold reggae nights in Reykjavík every month at clubs Hemmi og Valdi and more recently in Faktorý as the crowd has grown so much.\n\nIn Germany, the three successful Reggae JSnrfti mer Jam open-air fastivals were crucial parts of the renaissance of Caribbean music in Germany but at that year (1990) war broke out between the two main German promoters who had cooperated so well during the previous seasons. With a lot of infighting and personal quarrels, each of them pursued his own preparations for a big summer festival. The result was that two open-air events look place on the same day.\n\nThe Reggae Sammer Jam '90 was staged as usual, but this year for only one day. The event took place at the Lorelei Rock amphit heater with artists like Mad Professor's Ariwa Posse with Macka B and Kofi, Mutabaruka, the Mighty Diamonds, the Twinkle Brothers, Manu Dibango and Fela Kuti.\n\nThe other, ex-partner of the onceunited promoters succeeded in bringing the original Sunsplash package to Germany for the first time. Close to the Main River in the little village of Gemaunden deep down in rural southcentral Germany, they staged a two-day festival that drew the bigger crowd. About 10,000 people came from all over the country as well as from neighboring states like trance and, for the first time, East Germany to see the lineup of top reggae artists.\n\nReggae in Africa was much boosted by the visit of Bob Marley to Zimbabwe on Independence Day 18 April 1980. Nigerian reggae had developed in the 1970s with artists such as Majek Fashek proving popular. In South Africa, reggae music has played a unifying role amongst cultural groups in Cape Town. During the years of Apartheid, the music bonded people from all demographic groups. Lucky Dube recorded 25 albums, fusing reggae with Mbaqanga. The Marcus Garvey Rasta camp in Phillipi is regarded by many to be the reggae and Rastafari center of Cape Town. Reggae bands play regularly at community centres such as the Zolani center in Nyanga.\n\nIn Uganda musician Papa Cidy is very popular. Arthur Lutta is also a Ugandan gospel reggae drummer known for his reggae style drumminng. In Ethiopia, Dub Colossus and Invisible System emerged in 2008 sharing core members, and have received wide acclaim. In Mali, Askia Modibo fuses reggae with Malian music. In Malawi, Black Missionaries produced nine albums. In Ivory Coast a country where reggae music is extremely popular, Tiken Jah Fakoly fuses reggae with traditional music. Alpha Blondy from Ivory Coast sings reggae with religious lyrics. In Sudan, beats, drums and bass guitar from reggae music has been adopted into their music as reggae is a very popular among the generations from young to old, some spiritual (religious) groups grow their dreadlocks and have some reggae beats in their chants.\n\nIn the Philippines, several bands and sound systems play reggae and dancehall music. Their music is called Pinoy reggae. Japanese reggae emerged in the early 1980s. Reggae is becoming more prevalent in Thailand as well. Reggae music is quite popular in Sri Lanka. Aside from the reggae music and Rastafari influences seen ever more on Thailand's islands and beaches, a true reggae sub-culture is taking root in Thailand's cities and towns. Many Thai artists, such as Job 2 Do, keep the tradition of reggae music and ideals alive in Thailand. By the end of the 1980s, the local music scene in Hawaii was dominated by Jawaiian music, a local form of reggae.\n\nFamous Indian singer Kailash Kher and music producer Clinton Cerejo created \"Kalapi\", a rare fusion piece of Reggae and Indian music for Coke Studio India. Other than this high-profile piece, Reggae is confined to a small, emerging scene in India. Thaikkudam Bridge, a neo-Indian band based in Kerala, India is known for inducing Reggae into Indian regional blues.\n\nReggae in Australia originated in the 1980s. Desert Reggae is a developing contemporary style possibly originating in Central Australia. Lyrics are often sung in Australian Aboriginal languages. However, possibly the best known Australian reggae groups are Sticky Fingers (band), Blue King Brown and Astronomy Class, who both use English language lyrics.\n\nNew Zealand reggae was heavily inspired by Bob Marley's 1979 tour of the country, and early reggae groups such as Herbs. The genre has seen many bands like Fat Freddy's Drop, Salmonella Dub, The Black Seeds and Katchafire emerging in more recent times, often involving fusion with electronica.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1261289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261289", "title": "Religion Explained", "text": "Religion Explained\n\nReligion Explained: The Evolutionary Origins of Religious Thought is a 2001 book by cognitive anthropologist Pascal Boyer, in which the author discusses the evolutionary psychology of religion and evolutionary origin of religions.\n\nBoyer describes the genesis of religious concepts as a phenomenon of the mind's cognitive inference systems, comparable to pareidolia and perceptions of religious imagery in natural phenomena resulting from face perception processes within the human brain. Boyer supports this naturalistic origin of religion with evidence from many specialized disciplines including biological anthropology, cultural anthropology, cognitive science, linguistics, evolutionary biology, cognitive psychology, evolutionary psychology, neuroscience, and information processing.\n\n\"Religion Explained\" frames religious practices and beliefs in terms of recent cognitive neuroscience research in the modularity of mind. This theory involves cognitive \"modules\" (\"devices\" or \"subroutines\") underlying inference systems and intuitions. For instance, Boyer suggests culturally-widespread beliefs in \"supernatural agents\" (e.g., gods, ancestors, spirits, and witches) result from agent detection: the intuitive modular process of assuming intervention by conscious agents, regardless of whether they are present. \"When we see branches moving in a tree or when we hear an unexpected sound behind us, we immediately infer that some agent is the cause of this salient event. We can do that without any specific description of what the agent actually is.\" Boyer cites E. E. Evans-Pritchard's classic Zande story about a termite-infested roof collapsing.\nFor the anthropologist, the house caved in because of the termites. For the Zande, it was quite clear that witchcraft was involved. However, the Zande were also aware that the termites were the proximate cause of the incident. But what they wanted to know was why it happened at that particular time, when particular people were gathered in the house.\n\nWithin Boyer's hypothesis, religion is a \"parasite\" (or \"spandrel\") offshoot from cognitive modules, comparable to the way the reading process is parasitic upon language modules.\nAs I have pointed out repeatedly the building of religious concepts requires mental systems and capacities that are there anyway, religious concepts or not. Religious morality uses moral intuitions, religious notions of supernatural agents recruit our intuitions about agency in general, and so on. This is why I said that religious concepts are parasitic upon other mental capacities. Our capacities to play music, paint pictures or even make sense of printed ink-patterns on a page are also parasitic in this sense. This means that we can explain how people play music, paint pictures and learn to read by examining how mental capacities are recruited by these activities. The same goes for religion. Because the concepts require all sorts of specific human capacities (an intuitive psychology, a tendency to attend to some counterintuitive concepts, as well as various social mind adaptations), we can explain religion by describing how these various capacities get recruited, how they contribute to the features of religion that we find in so many different cultures. We do not need to assume that there is a special way of functioning that occurs only when processing religious thoughts.\n\nBoyer admits his explanation of religion \nis \"not\" a quick, shoot-from-the-hip solution of the kind that many people, either religious or not, seem to favor. There cannot be a magic bullet to explain the existence and common features of religion, as the phenomenon is the result of \"aggregate relevance\" – that is, of successful activation of a whole variety of mental systems.\n\nCritical reception of \"Religion Explained\" has been mixed.\n\nBenjamin Beit-Hallahmi, a professor of developmental psychology at the University of Haifa, called the book \"a milestone on the road to a new behavioral understanding of religion, basing itself on what has come to be known as cognitive anthropology, and pointedly ignoring much work done over the past one hundred years in the behavioral study of religion and in the psychological anthropology of religion.\" \nHe continues: \nThe clearest virtue of this book is that of dealing with the real thing. Even today, most scholarly work on religion consists of apologetics in one form or another, and we are deluged by offers of grants to study \"spirituality\" or teach \"religion and science\". This all serves to make us forget that religion is a collection of fantasies about spirits, and Boyer indeed aims to teach us about the world of the spirits in the grand tradition of the Enlightenment. Any general introduction to the world of the spirits must be ambitious because it hasn't been done and also because it has been done intuitively by all of us.\n\nDavid Klinghoffer, a journalist and intelligent design proponent, wrote in the \"National Review\" that \"Boyer's talk of 'religion is suspiciously generic\" and describes his work as \"professorial noodlings\" that attempt to raise the question whether \"all religions are somehow the same\". He further claims that \"debunkers like Boyer ... have their own unconscious motivations (to undermine religious faith, after all, is to set oneself free of its many inconvenient strictures).\"\n\nMichael Shermer, founder of The Skeptics Society, described Boyer's book as:\na penetratingly insightful scientific analysis of religion because as an anthropologist he understands that any explanation must take into account the rich diversity of religious practices and beliefs around the world, and as a scientist he knows that any explanatory model must account for this diversity. Boyer is at his ethnographic best in describing the countless peculiar religious rituals he and his anthropological brethren have recorded, and especially in identifying the shortcomings of virtually every explanation for religion ever offered. … As a consequence, however, Boyer himself fails to provide a satisfactory explanation because he knows that religion is not a single entity resulting from a single cause.\n\nBrigitte Schön, a theology professor at the University of Bonn, wrote,\nApart from being fascinating to read and containing many more highly original ideas than could be mentioned here, \"Religion explained\" is an important book for a number of reasons. First of all, Boyer is able to present a very dense network of theories which not only explains many religious phenomena but also sets them in relation to each other. The integration of cognitive science research leads to a very realistic model of how religious concepts are processed and communicated, something which has been conspicuously absent from most theories of religion so far. Boyer's account of the natural basis of religion explains very well the persistence and re-emergence of religion even in a secularized environment, as well as the tensions between official and folk religion.\n\nGarry Runciman, sociologist at Trinity College, Cambridge, asked \"Are we hardwired for God?\"\nThe diverse beliefs which Boyer cites extend from Apollo and Athena, to shamanism among the Panamanian Cuna, to aliens from remote galaxies allegedly landing in New Mexico. But his central agenda is the particular set of unobservable causal agencies cited in his subtitle, and his primary concern is with the question of how we are to account for beliefs that involve the attribution of conscious agency to beings other than humans and animals of the normal and familiar kind. Such beliefs are, as Boyer says, remarkably widespread, and for all their variant forms the variation is neither limitless nor random. His answer falls into two parts: first, these beliefs have in common a counterintuitive attribution of a certain range of properties to certain kinds of quasihuman being; second, the explanation of their diffusion and persistence is to be sought not in the extensive anthropological literature about the origins and functions of religion, but in recent advances in developmental, cognitive and evolutionary psychology.\n\nAuthor and economist Zachary Karabell found stylistic faults. \"Boyer's use of cognitive psychology, anthropology and other disciplines does generate a new template for examining old questions. But his method, however compelling, does not save the book from its considerable flaws. To begin with, the writing is frequently impenetrable.\" He concludes, \"Of course, Boyer may be right. Human existence may simply be a story of living, breathing, eating and dying. But by not grappling with the possibility that a nonmaterial realm exists, Boyer has written a book about religion that is occasionally illuminating and utterly unconvincing.\"\n\nThe comparative religion author Karen Armstrong reviewed Boyer's thesis.\nReligion, he argues, is nothing more or less than a by-product of the human mind. It is a side effect of having a particular kind of brain. By far the most fascinating part of this highly accessible and informative book is Boyer's description of the way our minds work. We have an inbuilt set of ontological expectations and a tendency to dwell on intuitions which violate these, such as mountains that float or companions whom we do not see. From the dawn of modern consciousness, men and women have focused on certain imaginary personalities that transcend the norm, convinced that they can help them in strategic ways. These supernatural agents link with other mental systems, such as our moral intuitions and social categories, for which we can find no conceptual justification.\n\nJohn Habgood, formerly Archbishop of York, wrote.\nThis is a bold and far-reaching book. What its author lacks in modesty, he makes up for in cogency of argument and elegance of style. His \"explanation\" of religion is lucid, entertaining, full of valuable insights and almost, but not quite, convincing. The usual explanations of religion—as an attempt to explain what is otherwise puzzling, as a provider of comfort, as a good thing for society or as an escape from reason—are quickly dismissed. Pascal Boyer seeks to demonstrate that its origins and motivations are more deep seated in our mental structures than any of these, which is why religion is so universal, so powerful and so unlikely to disappear even though, as he also claims, it is in the end only a mental phenomenon. Recent experience of the dreadful consequences of religious fanaticism gives his analysis a frightening contemporary relevance, not least because of the minor role within religion that he assigns to rationality.\n\nBoyer's book is available in several English versions, as well as French, German, Greek, Italian and Polish translations. Publishers have variously altered the \"Religion Explained\" title.\n\nThe American edition was published as:\n\nThe British edition, which changed the subtitle from \"\"The Evolutionary Origins of Religious Thought\" to \"The Human Instincts That Fashion Gods, Spirits and Ancestors\"\", was published as:\n\nTranslated editions of \"Religion Explained\" are available in several European languages:\n\n"}
{"id": "50207524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50207524", "title": "Respective case", "text": "Respective case\n\nThe respective case (also called the dedative or relative) is a grammatical case invented by J. R. R. Tolkien in his constructed language Quenya (the elven language of the book \"The Lord of the Rings\"). It is not clear if this case is used with prepositions, transitive or intransitive verbs, or has a more general use. Based on a few examples, one linguist has deduced the possibility that it is used as a kind of locative (e.g.: \"i coa i taures / i coa i tauressë\" the house in the forest).\n\nAnother possible use is to translate expressions with the preposition “about.” For example, in translating “He told me about the invasion,” the Quenya word for “invasion” might appear in the respective/dedative. The seeming absence of any other case being used to translate this preposition lends support to this conjecture. In the constructed language Ithkuil the case corresponding to the preposition about is called Referential case\n"}
{"id": "25848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25848", "title": "Rungholt", "text": "Rungholt\n\nRungholt was a settlement in Nordfriesland, in what was then the Danish Duchy of Schleswig. The area is today located in Germany. Rungholt reportedly sank beneath the waves of the North Sea when a storm tide (known as the second \"Grote Mandrenke\") hit the coast on 15 or 16 January 1362.\n\nThe exact location of Rungholt remains unclear. It is likely that Rungholt was situated on the island of Strand, which was rent asunder by another storm tide in 1634, and of which the islets of Pellworm, Nordstrand and Nordstrandischmoor are the only remaining fragments.\n\nOne possible location is west of the Hallig Südfall, where in 1921 significant ruins were discovered: wells, trenches and part of a tidal lock. Another theory places Rungholt to the north of the Hallig Südfall.\n\nToday it is widely accepted that Rungholt did in fact exist and was not just a local legend. Documents support this, although they mostly date from much later times (16th century). Archaeologists think Rungholt was an important town and port. It might have contained up to 500 houses, with about 3,000 people. Findings indicate trade in agricultural products and possibly amber. Supposed relics of the town have been found in the Wadden Sea, but shifting sediments make it hard to preserve them.\n\nThere definitely was a great storm known as the \"Grote Mandrenke\", and sometimes also named after the saint Marcellus, on 15 or 16 January 1362. Estimates put the number of deaths at around 10,000. Possibly 30 settlements were destroyed, and the coastline shifted east, leaving formerly inhabited land in the tidal Wadden Sea.\n\nSometimes referred to as the \"Atlantis of the North Sea\", the Rungholt of legend was a large, rich town and the catastrophe supposedly a divine punishment for the sins of its inhabitants.\n\nImpressed by the fate of the town, the relics, and not least the legends' excessive descriptions, the German poet Detlev von Liliencron wrote a popular poem in 1882 called \"Trutz, Blanke Hans\" about this lost town which starts with the words: \"Heut bin ich über Rungholt gefahren, die Stadt ging unter vor sechshundert Jahren.\" (\"Today I traveled over Rungholt; the town sank 600 years ago.\").\n\nGerman singer Achim Reichel put Liliencron's poem to music on his 1977 album \"Regenballade\".\n\nGerman metal band Santiano released a song called Rungholt in their 2015 CD \"Von Liebe, Tod und Freiheit\". It also includes verses from von Liliencron's poem.\n\nTheodor Storm also mentions Rungholt in his novella \"Eine Halligfahrt\".\n\nChristian Kracht mentions Rungholt in his novella \"Faserland\".\n\nLocal myth has it that one can still hear the church bells of Rungholt ringing under the water when sailing through the area on a calm night.\n\n"}
{"id": "28015464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28015464", "title": "Scottish Royal tapestry collection", "text": "Scottish Royal tapestry collection\n\nThe Scottish royal tapestry collection was a group of tapestry hangings assembled to decorate the palaces of sixteenth-century kings and queens of Scotland.\n\nLike other European monarchs, the kings and queens of Scotland sought to impress their subjects and diplomatic visitors in costly surroundings. At Fontainebleau in 1540, the King of France himself personally helped the English ambassador onto a bench so he could examine and admire the 'antique borders' of the tapestry in his bedchamber, and this was seen as a sign of special favour. In Scotland, James V's tapestries were listed in two inventories, along with the crown jewels and fine clothes. These tapestries were used to hang the best chambers and halls in the palaces, and were transported with the monarch between residences and lined, fixed and hung by specialists on the court pay-roll. The rooms were decorated with a painted frieze at the top of the wall and plain beneath where the tapestries hung. Henry VIII of England had nearly 2000 tapestries and James V had 200.\n\nEleven pieces of royal tapestry were destroyed in the explosion at Kirk o' Field in February 1567 that killed the King Consort of Scotland, Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley. None of the original Scottish tapestries are known to exist now, but the names of many of them were recorded, and the subjects are the same as those listed in other royal collections, and some examples survive in museums around the world. Some of the tapestries showed Biblical themes, or subjects with medieval roots, but most were stories from classical antiquity, reflecting renaissance taste, and some were scenes from the hunting field.\n\nIn preparation for the arrival of his bride Margaret Tudor at Holyroodhouse on 8 August 1503, James IV of Scotland bought new tapestries. A group was bought from a merchant called James Homyll, who imported textiles from Flanders, which cost £160 Scots. These were a piece with the subject of \"Hercules\", two pieces of \"Susanna\" sewn together, a \"Susanna\" bed cover, a \"Solomon\", and a \"Marcus Coriolanus\". The total measurement which, combined with quality, dictated the price, was 209 square ells. The tapestries were lined with canvas. A set of six verdure tapestries were bought for hanging in the gallery and on the stairs, each costing £3. Five other smaller verdures of various sizes cost £11-4s. Ten fine verdures were bought from John Stewart; three with 'beasts' cost £4-10s each, seven with no beasts cost £4 each. (The 'beasts' may have been unicorns) Four other verdures bought for beds were in quality, 'nocht sa gude,' and cost only 40 shillings each.\nBefore Margaret left England, the tapestry agent of Henry VII of England, Cornelis van der Strete had been paid £7-8s (English money) for making or supplying 74 Flemish ells of tapestry for the Scottish Consort Queen. The historian and curator Thomas P. Campbell suggests these may have been simple armorial tapestries or borders to be attached to figural tapestries purchased elsewhere. \n\nThe English Somerset Herald, John Young, described some of the tapestry at Holyroodhouse on the two days of celebration. Young noted the hangings in the two outer rooms of the King and Queen's suites where meals were served. The Queen's hall was hung with the \"History of Hercules\", and her great chamber with the \"History of Troy Town\". The King's hall was hung with the \"History of Old Troy\", and his great chamber with \"Hercules\" and other stories. Possibly some of these tapestries were brought to Scotland by Margaret, perhaps with new borders including Tudor heraldry supplied by Cornelis van der Strete.\n\nTwo inventories of 1539 and 1543 list the tapestries of James V. Some of these had belonged to James IV, though Gavin Douglas said that Regent Albany had cut up royal crimson and purple hangings to make clothes for his servants and pages, but many were bought by James V, or were presents from Francis I. An inventory of September 1561 lists those in Scotland belonging to Mary of Guise, and another compiled on 25 November lists Mary, Queen of Scots' collection. These lists have notes describing the later locations of the tapestries. Mary Queen of Scots added to the royal collection by confiscating 45 tapestries belonging to the Earl of Huntly at Huntly Castle in October 1562. These included one set of large leaf verdures and other set with leaves and birds. Five of the eleven tapestries destroyed at Kirk o'Field were from Huntly, the other were from a suite depicting a \"Rabbit Hunt.\"\n\nAfter the battle of Langside in May 1568, the Regent Moray took back from Hamilton Palace rich silk tapestry and beds that had belonging to James V. An inventory of 1578 lists tapestries stored in Edinburgh Castle and hanging at Stirling Castle where James VI was resident. Tapestries at Stirling included four pieces of the \"Hunts of the Unicorn\". There may have been royal tapestries elsewhere in Scotland, but the omissions of items and suites listed in the earlier James V inventories raises the possibility that Regent Moray sold tapestries abroad in 1568 along with Mary's pearls, selected royal jewels and a so-called unicorn horn. Mary, now a prisoner in England, complained in August 1570 that Scottish ships had brought items of her 'apparel, costly hangings, and jewels' to Hull and other English ports for sale.\n\nWhen Mary was moved to Tutbury Castle in February 1569, three suites of tapestries and carpets were delivered from the Removing Wardrobe at the Tower of London to furnish her rooms. These included six pieces of the \"Passion\", six pieces of the \"History of Ladies\", and seven pieces of \"Hercules\"; the latter two subjects are found in the earlier Scottish inventories. At Sheffield Manor in February 1577 she had her own tapestries of \"Aeneas\" and \"Meleager\". In January 1585, when Mary was again being moved to Tutbury, Queen Elizabeth recalled that Regent Moray had sent plate, hangings and other items to Mary while she was in the custody of the Earl of Shrewsbury. The Earl wrote (to Lord Burghley) that this was not the case and Elizabeth was mistaken; 'to my knowledge since her commynge she never received any stuff or other things from him.' At Fotheringhay in 1587 she had six pieces of \"Meleager\" and six of the \"Battle of Ravenna\" which she wished to be sold to pay for her servants' journeys home.\n\nAn inventory of Stirling Castle made in 1584 records a set of five tapestries hanging in the king's audience chamber, and seven in the bedchamber of the Palace. Some of the tapestries were at Dunfermline Palace in 1616, where Alexander Seton, 1st Earl of Dunfermline, had looked after the infant Prince Charles. Among the remaining contents of the Royal Wardrobe at Holyroodhouse in 1617, three pieces of green velvet embroidered with gold holly leaves and the Longueville arms, which had belonged to Mary of Guise (Duchess of Longueville by her first marriage), were sent for repair. In 1635, Charles I wrote to John Stewart, 1st Earl of Traquair, Treasurer of Scotland, insisting on the payment of the wardrobe servants, so that hangings, cloths-of-estate, and beds could be aired. The remaining tapestries at Holyrood would have been seized by Commonwealth troops in 1650. In April 1656, soldiers retrieved and sent to Whitehall four pieces of the \"Labours of Hercules\", perhaps the latest mention of tapestry from the Scottish royal collection.\n\nThe six pieces of the \"Triumphant Dames\" or \"City of Dames\" were bought in Paris in 1537 or 1538 for 883 francs 10 sous during James V's trip to marry Madeleine of Valois. The pieces varied slightly in size with a total area of 147 square ells, each square ell costed at six francs. These were sent to Rouen by boat and then to Newhaven in France for shipping, along with another set called the \"Old and New Stories\". A set with a similar name, the \"New Law and the Old\", was listed among Catherine of Aragon's effects in February 1536. The Scottish suite was probably the ten-piece \"Old Testament\" listed in the inventory of 1539. Only one piece was noted in 1542, and none was heard of again in Scotland. James V's servant George Steill was sent to Flanders from Paris on 3 February 1537 to acquire more tapestries. At the same time James V hired a new French tapestry-man, William, and gave him 20 crowns to bring his wife and children to Scotland. \n\nYears later, when Mary, Queen of Scots, was a prisoner at Tutbury Castle, six pieces of series called the \"History of Ladies\" were sent from the Tower of London. This was probably one of three sets of the \"City of Ladies\" that had belonged to Henry VIII, listed in the inventory of 1547, which were identical in size piece by piece to the Scottish tapestries. These had decorated the childhood homes of Princess Elizabeth and Prince Edward The subject derives from Christine de Pizan's \"The Book of the City of Ladies.\" Other sets of the subject belonged to Margaret of Austria, Mary of Hungary, Anne of Brittany and Francis I.\n\nThe other tapestry bought in Paris and packed for shipping to Rouen was the \"Creation of World\", of which nine pieces were at Holyroodhouse in 1561, and in Edinburgh Castle in 1578. In 1616, Alexander Seton had some 'auld and worne' pieces described as the \"Storie of Mankynd\" at Dunfermline Palace. The set could possibly have been \"The World\" series, depicting various moral allegories and including a globe. A list of wedding gifts from Francis I adds four suites of rich arras hangings, and eight suites of coarser arras, all 'ret verey good.' These gifts would have been included among the tapestries named in the Scottish inventories mentioned below. In October 1546, an Antwerp merchant, Eustatius de Coqueil, wrote to Mary of Guise offering her histories and other tapestries, but it seems unlikely that any were bought during this brief period of peace in the war of the Rough Wooing.\n\nThe \"Tint Barne\", the \"History of the Lost Child\", might appear to be the same subject as the \"History of Tobias\". However the five-piece \"Tobias\" was listed in 1539 and also in 1542, along with the seven-piece \"Tint Barne\". The subject of the \"tinte barne\" was probably the \"Prodigal Son\", a subject listed many times in the inventory of Henry VIII, and Cardinal Wolsey had seven pieces.\n\nThese were delivered by a William Schaw in 1539, costing 2466 crowns of the sun (French – \"ecu d'or au soleil\"). It was a group of five (or six) sets of seven pieces, and included seven \"Sundry pieces histories of Chambers\" in fine stuff listed in 1539. Additions for this \"Chamber of Antique History\" were bought by a servant of John Moffet, conservator of Flanders in April 1541. The word 'chamber' referred to the suite of tapestry rather than any actual room in the palaces. Subjects supplied by William Schaw listed in 1539 include; seven pieces of \"Poesy\"; seven pieces of \"Jason and Golden Fleece\"; and seven pieces of \"Venus\", \"Pallas\", \"Hercules\", \"Mars\", \"Bacchus\", and \"Gaia\" (\"Mother of the Earth\"), with the Biblical \"History of Solomon\". Only six pieces of the \"Jason\" were listed in 1542. Four pieces of the \"Solomon\" were listed in September 1561, and noted circa 1568 to be at Stirling. The others are not heard of again. The \"Little Solomon\" was also noted in September 1561, another set, or perhaps three of the seven scenes pieces bought by William Schaw.\n\nThe seven-piece \"History of Perseus\" was presumably of this group, though not linked in the inventories of 1539 and 1540 to William Schaw's purchase. James IV had bought one piece of a \"History of Hercules\", and nine were listed in 1542. This was a suite separate to the \"Hercules\" in the ancient god series of the \"Chambers\". \n\nSimilarly a three piece \"History of Romulus\" was listed in 1542. The \"Old History of Troy\" of eight or nine pieces listed in 1539 and 1542 was perhaps a Stewart inheritance, old and already described as worn out, so distinguished from the \"Aeneas\". The family of Mary of Guise's first husband, Louis II d'Orléans, Duc de Longueville, had \"Troy\" tapestries at their Château de Châteaudun as early as 1468.\n\nThe 13 pieces of the \"History of Aeneas\" were carried from Edinburgh Castle to St. Andrews in May 1539, and are listed in the inventory of 1539. Eight pieces described as the \"Sailing of Aeneas\" are listed in November 1561 at Holyroodhouse, with a note, presumably of c.1568, locating them at Stirling Castle. In 1578 there were eight \"Sailing\" pieces and four others at Edinburgh Castle. The extra tapestry may have been a piece from the \"Old History of Troy,\" or possibly the \"Sailing of Aeneas\" set, first listed in November 1561, was newly brought from France by Queen Mary and not part of James's \"Aeneas\". Alexander Seton had some of the \"Aeneas\" and \"Troy\" at Dunfermline among his 10 old pieces in 1616. An area of the garden of Holyroodhouse was called the \"Sege of Troy\", and there may have been a connection, perhaps only that the tapestries were aired there.\n\nA separate subject from the \"Jason\", listed in 1539 as the \"History of Maliasor\", this six-piece tapestry of \"Meleager\" was at Fotheringhay Castle in 1587 as Mary's own possession. At Fotheringay, Mary, Queen of Scots, also had the six pieces of the \"History of Count Foix and the Battle of Ravenna\", from the Scottish collection, but as this set was only previously listed in November 1561 it might not have belonged to her parents. An eighteenth-century engraving of Gaston de Foix was said to derive from a similar tapestry. Amias Paulet her gaoler spent £113-10s in English money on lining, packing, and hanging eight pieces of her tapestry during her move from Chartley to Fotheringhay Castle. Mary wished the \"Meleager\" and \"Ravenna\" to be sold after her death, with cloths-of-estate, to fund the return journeys of her physician and Mr Melville. \nLike the \"Meleager\", the biblical \"Roboam\" which appears in most inventories also dates from 1539.\n\nThis may have been a copy of the famous tapestry commissioned by François Ier from designs by Giulio Romano, the \"Gestes of Scipion\", the story of Scipio Africanus, which includes the scene \"Siege of Carthagena\". However, like the \"Battle of Ravenna\", the five pieces are first listed in November 1561 and so this too might not have belonged to James and Mary of Guise, unless they were among the unspecified tapestries bought by William Schaw in 1539. However, there are other tapestries with the subject \"Siege of a Town\" in late medieval style which answer the description. Another possibility is that these were scenes of the \"Siege of Troy\", a subject found in Henry VIII's collection. Possibly, this tapestry was in mind when Mary of Guise, according to John Knox, remarked that the aftermath of the failed assault on Leith of 7 May 1560 was the fairest tapestry she had ever seen.\n\nJames V's other named tapestries included the six Great and eight Little \"Unicorn\" pieces. The \"Great Unicorn\" set has been identified as another version of the famous tapestries, the Hunt of the Unicorn, now in the Cloisters Museum of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Faithful copies using the original technique are being made for display in the Palace of Stirling Castle. These unicorn tapestries had belonged to his father, James IV, but the subject was still popular in 1540, when Pierre de Clanquemeulle, companion tapestry maker, was hired by Léon Brocart, master weaver in Paris, to complete two pieces of an \"Histoire de la Chasse à la licorne\".\n\nSeven pieces of the \"History of the Apis and uther Bestis\" were recorded in 1539. Six pieces of the History of Apes were recorded in 1561. In January 1563 three pieces of this tapestry with monkeys, the \"tapisserie des singes\", were given by Mary Queen of Scots to Pierre Marnard the court \"fruictier\", a kitchen officer who took part in masques.\n\nListed in the September 1561 inventory, 10 pieces of \"History of Hunting and Hawking\" may have been a separate item originally belonging to James V, and perhaps distinct from the six-piece set of the \"Hunting of the Sanglier\" (Wild Boar), and seven-piece \"Coningars\" (the Rabbit Hunt), listed in later inventories. One scene from this \"Rabbit Hunt\", otherwise called the \"L’histoire des Chasseurs de Cogny\" in an inventory written in French, was said to have been lost at Linlithgow during the 1566 baptism of James VI at Stirling. However this loss had already been recorded in 1565, as having occurred at Linlithgow during the keepership of James Sandilands, Master of the Preceptory of St John at Torphichen, perhaps the one later said to have been cut by \"Andro Cockburn fule.\" The other six pieces were destroyed at the Kirk o'Field explosion. Another tapestry of the \"Rabbit Hunt\" had been made into bed curtains. The Burrell Collection in Glasgow has an example of a tapestry of this subject, dated from c. 1475.\n\nJames IV bought one scene of \"Marcus Coriolanus\", which may be the \"Mathiolus\" tapestry mentioned in later inventories, and a \"Solomon\", which may be \"Judgement of Solomon\" noted in September 1561, of worsett with gold. Alternatively, Susan Groag Bell wonders if this \"Mathiolus\" was the first scene of the \"City of Ladies\" suite bought in 1538, featuring the name of the author Matheolus as a protagonist illustrating the works of Christine de Pisan.\n\nThe subject of the \"History of the Shepherds\" of seven pieces and the \"History of Calveris and Moris\" of four pieces noted in 1561 may be obscure. The eight-piece \"Triumph of Verity\" also noted in November 1561 may have come to Scotland with Mary in 1561, unless perhaps this was yet another name for the \"City of Dames.\"\n\nWhen James V moved around Scotland the \"tapissiers\" or 'tapestry men' packed up the tapestries and set them up at his destination, and carried out running repairs. George Steill bound up twelve scenes of the \"History of Aeneas\" with cords and carried them from Edinburgh to St Andrews in May 1539 for the marriage of Joanna Gresmore to the Laird of Creich. Eight pieces of tapestry were specially repaired for the coronation of Mary of Guise in January 1540, and others were often relined with new canvas. Jacques Habet, William Edbe and George Steill lined the rough or newly plastered walls of the castle at Crawfordjohn to save wear on tapestries in July 1541. Apart from this work, the men also made up and embroidered state beds with luxury imported silks and taffetas with hanks of gold thread, finished with passementerie and ostrich feather trimmings. Guillaume, hired in France in 1538, Habet, and the embroiderer Robinet, were doubtless Frenchmen, but William Edbe was Scottish. Habet may have been the \"Jacques Hebert\" later hired by the Parisian master weaver Girard Laurens in 1564.\n\nThere was extra work when the tapestry was taken out of the castles and used on other occasions. In May 1544, when an English army burnt Edinburgh, the tapestries were carried up the Royal Mile from Holyroodhouse to the Castle for safety and watched by Regent Arran's wardrobe servant Malcolm Gourlay. Regent Arran borrowed the royal tapestry for his daughter Barbara's wedding in 1549, and after it had been cleaned by six apprentices it was brought out for the visit of Mary of Guise's brother, the Marquis de Maine. In April 1569, tapestry was hung in Glasgow for the French ambassador, in April 1572 the Deanery at Restalrig was hung with tapestry for the English ambassadors Thomas Randolph and William Drury, and in September 1572, William Murray, the varlet of James VI's bedchamber hung the tollbooth of Stirling with tapestry. George Strathauchin, embroiderer, was James's \"tapiser\" with annual salary of £40 and lodging; on 7 October 1584, the Master of Gray was made Keeper of the Wardrobe, including the tapestry, with all officers of the household commanded to reverence, acknowledge and obey him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28930871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28930871", "title": "South American Handbook", "text": "South American Handbook\n\nThe South American Handbook is a travel guide to South America, published in the United Kingdom by Footprint Books. It is the longest-running travel guide in the English language. In 2010 it was chosen as the Best South American Handbook by \"Sounds and Colours\".\n\nThe handbook was first published in 1921 as the \"Anglo-South American Handbook\". It was founded and compiled by William Henry Koebel (1872-1923), a prolific author who had a particular interest in promoting trade with South America. It was compiled as a guide to South America, as well as Mexico and Cuba, for the business traveller, and published by the Federation of British Industry.\n\nTwo editions later the book was 'privatised' and in 1924 it became the \"South American Handbook\", published by Trade and Travel Publications Ltd, a Royal Mail Steam Packet Company subsidiary incorporated in December 1922. At the time, travel was by sea and the handbook gave all the details needed for the long voyage from Europe, including a full account of the journey from Liverpool up the Amazon to Manaus, some 5,898 miles without changing cabin. It also imparted such invaluable etiquette advice as to 'pack a good saddle and a set of starched collars'.\n\nFrom about the 1930s the Mendip Press of Bath, Somerset printed the book. Early in the 1970s Royal Mail Lines sold Trade and Travel Publications to the Mendip Press's parent company, Dawson and Goodall Ltd. The handbook continued to be published annually and received updates from readers, including figures such as Paul Theroux and the novelist Graham Greene, who addressed his updates to 'The publishers of the best travel guide in the world, Bath, England'.\n\nOver the years the handbook expanded its coverage to include all the countries of South America, Central America, Mexico and the Caribbean. It continued to include data for businessmen, but by the 1970s was increasingly aimed at leisure travellers, particularly backpackers following the Gringo Trail. In 1989 the 65th edition was almost 1,400 pages long.\n\nIn 1990 the handbook was split. The \"Mexico & Central America Handbook\" and the \"Caribbean Islands Handbook\" were published as separate volumes, and from then on the \"South American Handbook\" covered only South America.\n\nTrade and Travel Publications changed its name to Footprint Handbooks Ltd in August 1996.\n\nThe \"South American Handbook\" 2018 (94th edition) contains 1,824 pages. It is edited by Ben Box, who has written for the handbook since 1980, as editor since 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "37920490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37920490", "title": "St. Nersess Theological Review", "text": "St. Nersess Theological Review\n\nThe St. Nersess Theological Review (abbreviated as SNTR) is an Armenological publication established in 1996 by St. Nersess Armenian Seminary (150 Stratton Rd, New Rochelle, NY 10804) and published semi-annually (at times annually or with varying frequency). The founding editor was Abraham Terian who ran the journal for many years. Presently, the journal is edited by Roberta R. Ervine. \n\nSNTR publishes articles about Christianity in the Armenian Church; e.g. theology, liturgy, philosophy, ethics, biblical studies, canon law, church history, ecumenics, literature, fine arts, archaeology, and interdisciplinary studies, as well as translations of Armenian patristic texts. It also publishes short notes, review articles and book reviews in all fields related to the Armenian Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "19375659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19375659", "title": "State of exception", "text": "State of exception\n\nA state of exception () is a concept in the legal theory of Carl Schmitt, similar to a state of emergency, but based in the sovereign's ability to transcend the rule of law in the name of the public good. This concept is developed in Giorgio Agamben's book \"State of Exception\".\n\n"}
{"id": "313832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313832", "title": "Stunt performer", "text": "Stunt performer\n\nA stunt performer, often referred to as a stuntman, stuntwoman or daredevil, is a trained professional who performs stunts, often as a career.\n\nA stuntman typically performs stunts intended for use in a motion picture or dramatized television. Stunts seen in films and television include car crashes, falls from great height, drags (for example, behind a horse), and explosions.\n\nThere is an inherent risk in the performance of all stunt work. The most risk exists when performing stunts in front of a live audience. In filmed performances, visible safety mechanisms can be removed by editing. In live performances the audience can see more clearly if the performer is genuinely doing what they claim or appear to do. To reduce the risk of injury or death, most often stunts are choreographed or mechanically-rigged so that, while they look dangerous, safety mechanisms are built into the performance. Despite their well-choreographed appearance, stunts are still very dangerous and physically testing exercises.\n\nFrom its inception as a professional skill in the early 1900s to the 1960s, stunts were most often performed by professionals who had trained in that discipline prior to entering the movie industry. Current film and television stunt performers must be trained in a variety of disciplines including martial arts and stage combat, and must be a certified trained member of a professional stunt performers organisation first, in order to obtain the necessary insurance to perform on stage or screen. This allows them to better break down and plan an action sequence, physically prepare themselves, and incorporate both the safety and risk factors in their performances. However, even when executed perfectly, there is still strain and performing stunts often results in unplanned injury to the body.\n\nDaredevils are distinct from stunt performers and stunt doubles; their performance is of the stunt itself, without the context of a film or television show. Daredevils often perform for an audience. Live stunt performers include escape artists, sword swallowers, glass walkers, fire eaters, trapeze artists, and many other sideshow and circus arts. They also include motorcycle display teams and the once popular Wall of Death. The Jackass films and television series are well-known and prominent recorded examples of the act in modern cinematography.\n\nSome people, such as Buster Keaton, Harry Houdini, Jackie Chan, Akshay Kumar, Pawan Kalyan, Tony Jaa, and Jayan, act as both stunt performers and daredevils at various parts of their career.\n\nThe earliest stunt performers were travelling entertainers and circus performers, particularly trained gymnasts and acrobats. The origin of the original name, the French language word \"cascadeur\", may have been derived from the requirement to fall in a sequence of movements during a scene or stunt involving water (\"Cascade\" is the French language term for waterfall)\n\nLater, in the German and Dutch circus use of the word \"Kaskadeur\", it meant performing a sequential series of daring leaps and jumps without injury to the performer. This acrobatic discipline required long training in the ring and perfect body control to present a sensational performance to the public.\n\nThe word stunt was more formally adopted during the 19th century travelling vaudeville performances of the early Wild West Shows, in North America and Europe. The first and prototypical wild west show was Buffalo Bill's, formed in 1883 and lasting until 1913. The shows which involved simulated battles with the associated firing of both guns and arrows, were a romanticized version of the American Old West.\n\nDuring the late 19th and early 20th centuries, stage combat scenes of swordplay in touring theatrical productions throughout Europe, the Commonwealth of Nations and North America were typically created by combining several widely known, generic routines known as \"standard combats\". During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, fencing masters in Europe began to research and experiment with historical fencing techniques, with weapons such as the two-handed sword, rapier, and smallsword, and to instruct actors in their use.\n\nNotable among these revivalist instructors were George Dubois, a fight director and martial artist from Paris who created performance fencing styles based on gladiatorial combat as well as Renaissance rapier and dagger fencing. Egerton Castle and Captain Alfred Hutton were part of a wider Victorian era group based in London, involved in reviving historical fencing systems. Circa 1899–1902, Hutton taught stage fencing classes for actors via the Bartitsu Club, where he also served on the Board of Directors and learned the basics of jujutsu and the Vigny method of stick fighting from his fellow instructors.\n\nBy the early 1900s, the motion picture industry was starting to fire-up on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean, but had no need for professional stunt performers. First, motion pictures were so new that even if the producer had a budget for performers, there were more than enough applicants willing to do the scene for free. For instance, if you needed a shot of someone on a steel beam up on a New York skyscraper, then there was always some willing to do the scene for real, and often for free. Second, the Spanish–American War had just ended, and there were many physically fit and trained in the handling of firearms young men looking for some work. Thirdly, the former wild west was now not only tamed, but also starting to be fenced in, greatly reducing the need for and pay of the former cowboys.\n\nThe first picture which used a dedicated stunt performer is highly debated, but occurred somewhere between 1903 and 1910. The first possible appearance of a stunt-double was Frank Hanaway in \"The Great Train Robbery\", shot in 1903 in Milltown, New Jersey. The first auditable paid stunt was in the 1908 film \"The Count of Monte Cristo\", with $5 paid by the director to the acrobat who had to jump upside down from a cliff into the sea.\n\nProfessional daredevil, Rodman Law, was a trick parachutist known to thousands for climbing the side of buildings and parachuting out aeroplanes and off of tall base objects like the Statue of Liberty. Some of his stunts were filmed by newsreel cameras and media still photographers. Law was brought into movies in 1912 to perform some of his stunts as the hero.\n\nAs the industry developed in the West Coast around Hollywood, California, the first accepted professional stuntmen were clowns and comedians like Charlie Chaplin, Buster Keaton and the Keystone Kops. The reason for this was that staple diet of the early films was an almost continual roll call of pratfalls, high dives and comedy car wrecks – the basic ingredients of a circus clown's routine. But much like their circus-based predecessors, these actors/stuntmen were not specifically trained to perform stunts, but instead learned through trial and error.\n\nFrom 1910 onwards, American audiences developed a taste for action movies, which were replicated into successful serials. These mostly western-themed scripts required a lot of extras, such as for a galloping cavalry, a band of Indians or a fast riding sheriff’s posse; all of whom needed to proficiently ride, shoot and look right on camera.\n\nProducers also kept pushing the directors calling for riskier stunts using a recurring cast, necessitating the use of dedicated stunt doubles for most movie stars. The directors turned to the current rodeo stars for inspiration for their action scenes, and employed former cowboys as extras who not only brought with themselves the right look and style, but also rodeo techniques that included safe and replicable horse falls.\n\nEarly recruits included Tom Mix, who after winning the 1909 National Riding and Rodeo Championship, worked for the Selig Polyscope Company in Edendale. Mix made his first appearance in \"The Cowboy Millionaire\" in October 1909, and then as himself in the short documentary film titled \"Ranch Life in the Great Southwest\" in which he displayed his skills as a cattle wrangler. Mix eventually performed in over 160 cowboy matinee movies during the 1920s, and is considered by many as the first matinee cowboy idol.\n\nThe recruitment venture was aided in 1911 by the collapse of the Miller-Arlington rodeo show, that left many rodeo performers stranded in Venice, California. They including the young Rose August Wenger, who married and was later billed as Helen Gibson, recognised as the first American professional stunt woman. Thomas H. Ince, who was producing for the New York Motion Picture Company, hired the entire show's cast for the winter at $2,500 a week. The performers were paid $8 a week and boarded in Venice, where the horses were stabled. They then rode the each day to work in Topanga Canyon, where the films were being shot. In 1912, Helen made $15 a week for her first billed role as Ruth Roland's sister in \"Ranch Girls on a Rampage\". After marrying Edmund Richard \"Hoot\" Gibson in June 1913, the couple continued working rodeo's in the summer and as stunt doubles in the winter in California, most often for Kalem Studios in Glendale. In April 1915 while on the Kalem payroll doubling for Helen Holmes in \"The Hazards of Helen\" adventure film series, Helen performed what is thought to be her most dangerous stunt: a leap from the roof of a station onto the top of a moving train in the \"A Girl’s Grit\" episode. The distance between station roof and train top was accurately measured, and she practiced the jump with the train standing still. In the actual shoot, with the trains accelerating velocity timed to the second, she leapt without hesitation and landed correctly, but with forward motion she rolled forward, saving herself from injury and improving the shot by catching hold of an air vent and dangling over the edge. She suffered only a few bruises.\n\nEventually, the out of work cowboys and out of season rodeo riders, and the directors/producers, figured out a system for the supply of extras. A speakeasy called \"The Watering Hole\" was located close to a Los Angeles located corral called the Sunset Corral. Every morning, the cowboys would congregate at \"The Watering Hole\", where the directors would send over their assistants to hire for the following day. The cowboys would then dress in their normal riding clothes (unless told other wise, for which they were paid extra), and ride to the set, most of which were located to the north in the vicinity of the San Fernando Valley. These \"riding extras\" jobs paid $10 per day plus a box lunch, and most were only hired on a per day basis. These early cowboy actors eventually gained the nickname \"The Gower Gulch Gang\", as many of the small studios cranking out westerns were located on Gower Avenue.\n\nSubsequently, a number of rodeo stars entered the movie industry on a full-time basis, with many \"riding extras\" eventually becoming movie stars themselves, including: Hank Bell (300 films, between 1920 and 1952); Bill Gillis; Buck Jones; Jack Montgomery (initially worked as Tom Mix's body-double); and Jack Padjeon (first appeared in 1923, played Wild Bill Hickok in the John Ford directed \"The Iron Horse\" in 1924). But the best known stuntman turned star was probably Yakima Canutt, who with his apprentices - who included John Wayne - devised during the 1930s new safety devices, including: the 'L' stirrup which allowed a rider to fall off a horse without getting hung in the stirrup; and cabling equipment to cause spectacular wagon crashes, while releasing the team. A focus on replicable and safe stunts saved producers money and prevented lost down-time for directors through reduced accidents and injury to performers. Stuntmen were now an integral part of a films drawing power, helping to fill cinemas with thrill seeking patrons anxious to see the new Saturday matinee.\n\nProducer/actor Harold Lloyd's film \"Safety Last!\" of 1923, is often considered one of the first to deploy thought-through safety devices and pre-planning in the execution of its filming and stunts. In the script, Lloyd's \"country boy\" character goes to the city to be a success, and ends up climbing a tall building as a stunt. Critics at the time claimed it to be the most spectacular daredevil thrill comedy.\n\nThe entire stunt sequence was shot on location the Atlantic Hotel in Broadway, Los Angeles (demolished 1957), at actual heights. But the films directors Fred C. Newmeyer and Sam Taylor planned into two safety features:\nProducer Hal Roach and Lloyd had been forced into the costs of planning and construction of these safety devices, as simply without them the city commissioners had refused the production a film permit. Lloyd, ever curious, decided after filming had completed to use a life-size cotton-filled dummy to see what the effect of an accident would have been should they have needed to use the required safety devices. On seeing the results, he didn't film another production without them.\n\nIn 1983 in his personal homage to Buster Keaton and Harold Lloyd called \"Project A\", Jackie Chan repeats some of the most famous scenes from the early film era, including Lloyd's clock scene from \"Safety Last!\" While Lloyd only hanged from the tower, Chan took it a step further and actually fell from the tower.\n\nSwashbuckler films were a unique genre of action movies, utilising the earlier developed art of cinematic fencing, a combination of stage combat and fencing. The most famous of these were the films of Douglas Fairbanks, which defined the genre. The stories came from romantic costume novels, particularly those of Alexandre Dumas and Rafael Sabatini, and included triumphant, thrilling music. There were three great cycles of swashbuckler films: the Douglas Fairbanks period from 1920 to 1929; the Errol Flynn period from 1935 to 1941; and a period in the 1950s heralded by films, including \"Ivanhoe\" (1952) and \"The Master of Ballantrae\" (1953), and the popularity of the British television series \"The Adventures of Robin Hood\" (1955–1959).\n\nThe preference to employ ready existing professionals from outside the film industry, either as performers or doubles, continued in the period both up to and beyond World War II, when again the industry was awash with young, fit men looking for work. However, in 1958 \"Thunder Road\" starring Robert Mitchum, with stunt coordinator was Cary Loftin and a stunt team including Ray Austin, Neil Castes Sr., Robert Hoy, and Dale Van Sickel, introduced the era of the car chase movie. With the later development of modern action movie, the accident rate of both stunt performers and movie stars started to quickly increase. The stunt performers took resultantly action to professionalise their industry, with the creation of new stunt performer run registration, training, certification, and booking agencies.\n\nIn the 1960s, modern stunt technology was developed, including air rams, air bags, and bullet squibs. Dar Robinson invented the decelerator during this period, which used dragline cables rather than airbags for stunts that called for a jump from high places. The co-development of this technology and professional performance training continues to evolve to the present, brought about through the need to not only create more visual impact on screen in the modern action movie era. It also provides a safe platform to a new breed of trained professional stunt performers, including Bill Hickman, Terry Richards, and motorcycle greats Bud Ekins and Evel Knievel. These new professionals were not only driven to create visual impact, but also perform seemingly impossible feats in a safe and repeatable manner. Latterly came the fast action Martial arts movies as a distinct genre, originating for western consumption mainly from Hong Kong from the 1940s, choreographed and later acted in by stunt performers turned stars including Bruce Lee and Sonny Chiba from the 1960s, Kent Norman \"Superkentman\" Elofson, and latterly Jackie Chan.\n\nIn 1982, Jackie Chan began experimenting with elaborate stunt action sequences in \"Dragon Lord\", which featured a pyramid fight scene that holds the record for the most takes required for a single scene, with 2900 takes, and the final fight scene where he performs various stunts, including one where he does a back flip off a loft and falls to the lower ground. In 1983, \"Project A\" saw the official formation of the Jackie Chan Stunt Team and added elaborate, dangerous stunts to the fights and typical slapstick humor (at one point, Chan falls from the top of a clock tower through a series of fabric canopies).\n\n\"Police Story\" (1985) contained many large-scale action scenes, including an opening sequence featuring a car chase through a shanty town, Chan stopping a double-decker bus with his service revolver and a climactic fight scene in a shopping mall. This final scene earned the film the nickname \"Glass Story\" by the crew, due to the huge number of panes of sugar glass that were broken. During a stunt in this last scene, in which Chan slides down a pole from several stories up, the lights covering the pole had heated it considerably, resulting in Chan suffering second-degree burns, particularly to his hands, as well as a back injury and dislocation of his pelvis upon landing. Other Hong Kong action movie stars who became known for performing elaborate stunts include Chan's Peking Opera School friends Sammo Hung and Yuen Biao, as well as \"girls with guns\" stars such as Michelle Yeoh and Moon Lee.\n\nWhile modern computer-generated imagery (CGI) technology is considered by many stunt professionals to potentially be curtailing the industry to but a shadow of its former self, the costs of CGI on most films and for most scenes presently far outweigh the benefits. While CGI allows directors to create stunts that would be very expensive, dangerous or simply impossible to perform with real stunt people, the backlash has resulted in a new genre of \"real\" movies marketed on the basis that the scenes are real and that no CGI has been used to create the final production.\n\nThere is no Oscar category for stunt performance, but in 1967, Yakima Canutt was awarded an honorary Oscar for his stunt career. The Academy of Television Arts and Sciences awards an Emmy for stunt coordinators.\n\nThe Taurus World Stunt Awards gives stunt people their own annual awards, but also through its foundation offers financial support to stunt men around the world who have been injured while on the job.\n\nAlthough the stories that stuntmen died while filming \"Ben Hur\" and \"Where Eagles Dare\" are apocryphal myths, life-threatening injuries and deaths are not uncommon. Contracts often stipulate that the footage may be used if the performer is injured or dies during filming, and some filmmakers including Jackie Chan, consider it disrespectful not to do so.\n\nDuring the filming of \"How the West Was Won\" (1962), a number of stunt performers and actors were injured, the most notable of which was Robert Drew \"Bob\" Morgan. While filming a gunfight on a moving railroad flatcar loaded with logs, one of the chains that held the logs snapped, and Morgan was crushed by the falling timber. Notwithstanding, this scene appeared fully in the film, in its entirety. Morgan's wife, actress Yvonne De Carlo, put her own career on hold, in order to nurse him back to health over five years; however, the couple later divorced in 1968.\n\nA University of Illinois study from the 1980s lists accidents and fatalities from films during that era, concluding that it seemed probable that the tendency of film audiences to be interested by ever bigger, badder and more dangerous film stunts had not decreased the fatality rate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51076633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51076633", "title": "The (M)orons", "text": "The (M)orons\n\nThe (M)orons is an American comedy and musical group consisting of Broadway performers and writers Drew Gasparini (Gaspo), F. Michael Haynie (F.), Andrew Kober (Andrew Rebecca Kober), and Tony Award nominee Alex Brightman (Brighty). The group has performed in various venues throughout New York City, including 54 Below and The Slipper Room. Most of their songs are written by Gasparini, and the group often collaborates with other stage performers in New York.\n\nIn addition to their live shows, The (M)orons released a series of podcasts in 2014, titled \"Who Gives a Sh!t?\" featuring various guests also involved in the theatre business.\n\nTheir show at The Slipper Room, titled \"The (M)oron's Happy Hour\" was named a \"must see\" in New York.\n"}
{"id": "1410468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1410468", "title": "The Best of John Wyndham", "text": "The Best of John Wyndham\n\nThe Best of John Wyndham is a paperback collection of science fiction short stories by John Wyndham, published after his death by Sphere Books, first in 1973. Michael Joseph Limited has published the book as a hardcover under the title The Man from Beyond and Other Stories in 1975. For the 1977 Sphere paperback edition it was split into 2 parts, both containing the full bibliography and the introduction by Leslie Flood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "187604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187604", "title": "Vasa (ship)", "text": "Vasa (ship)\n\nVasa (or Wasa) is a retired Swedish warship built between 1626 and 1628. The ship foundered after sailing about 1,300 m (1,400 yd) into its maiden voyage on 10 August 1628. It fell into obscurity after most of her valuable bronze cannons were salvaged in the 17th century until she was located again in the late 1950s in a busy shipping lane just outside the Stockholm harbor. Salvaged with a largely intact hull in 1961, it was housed in a temporary museum called Wasavarvet ('The Wasa Shipyard') until 1988 and then moved permanently to the Vasa Museum in the Royal National City Park in Stockholm. The ship is one of Sweden's most popular tourist attractions and has been seen by over 35 million visitors since 1961. Since her recovery, \"Vasa\" has become a widely recognised symbol of the Swedish 'great power period' and is today a \"de facto\" standard in the media and among Swedes for evaluating the historical importance of shipwrecks.\n\nThe ship was built on the orders of the King of Sweden Gustavus Adolphus as part of the military expansion he initiated in a war with Poland-Lithuania (1621–1629). It was constructed at the navy yard in Stockholm under a contract with private entrepreneurs in 1626–1627 and armed primarily with bronze cannons cast in Stockholm specifically for the ship. Richly decorated as a symbol of the king's ambitions for Sweden and himself, upon completion she was one of the most powerfully armed vessels in the world. However, \"Vasa\" was dangerously unstable and top-heavy with too much weight in the upper structure of the hull. Despite this lack of stability she was ordered to sea and foundered only a few minutes after encountering a wind stronger than a breeze. \n\nThe order to sail was the result of a combination of factors. The king, who was leading the army in Poland at the time of her maiden voyage, was impatient to see her take up her station as flagship of the reserve squadron at Älvsnabben in the Stockholm Archipelago. At the same time the king's subordinates lacked the political courage to openly discuss the ship's problems or to have the maiden voyage postponed. An inquiry was organised by the Swedish Privy Council to find those responsible for the disaster, but in the end no one was punished.\n\nDuring the 1961 recovery, thousands of artifacts and the remains of at least 15 people were found in and around the \"Vasa\"'s hull by marine archaeologists. Among the many items found were clothing, weapons, cannons, tools, coins, cutlery, food, drink and six of the ten sails. The artifacts and the ship herself have provided scholars with invaluable insights into details of naval warfare, shipbuilding techniques and everyday life in early 17th-century Sweden.\n\nDuring the 17th century, Sweden went from being a sparsely populated, poor, and peripheral northern European kingdom of little influence to one of the major powers in continental politics. Between 1611 and 1718 it was the dominant power in the Baltic, eventually gaining territory that encompassed the Baltic on all sides. This rise to prominence in international affairs and increase in military prowess, called \"stormaktstiden\" ('age of greatness' or 'great power period'), was made possible by a succession of able monarchs and the establishment of a powerful centralised government, supporting a highly efficient military organization. Swedish historians have described this as one of the more extreme examples of an early modern state using almost all of its available resources to wage war; the small northern kingdom transformed itself into a fiscal-military state and one of the most militarised states in history.\n\nGustavus Adolphus (1594–1632) has been considered one of the most successful Swedish kings in terms of success in warfare. When \"Vasa\" was built, he had been in power for more than a decade. Sweden was embroiled in a war with Poland-Lithuania, and looked apprehensively at the development of the Thirty Years' War in present-day Germany. The war had been raging since 1618 and from a Protestant perspective it was not successful. The king's plans for a Polish campaign and for securing Sweden's interests required a strong naval presence in the Baltic.\n\nThe navy suffered several severe setbacks during the 1620s. In 1625, a squadron cruising in the Bay of Riga was caught in a storm and ten ships ran aground and were wrecked. In the Battle of Oliwa in 1627, a Swedish squadron was outmaneuvered and defeated by a Polish force and two large ships were lost. \"Tigern\" ('The Tiger'), which was the Swedish admiral's flagship, was captured by the Poles, and \"Solen\" ('The Sun') was blown up by her own crew when she was boarded and near capture. In 1628, three more large ships were lost in less than a month; Admiral Klas Fleming's flagship \"Kristina\" was wrecked in a storm in the Gulf of Danzig, \"Riksnyckeln\" ('Key of the Realm') ran aground at Viksten in the southern archipelago of Stockholm and \"Vasa\" foundered on her maiden voyage. Gustavus Adolphus was engaged in naval warfare on several fronts, which further exacerbated the difficulties of the navy. In addition to battling the Polish navy, the Swedes were indirectly threatened by Imperial forces that had invaded Jutland. The Swedish king had little sympathy for the Danish king, Christian IV, and Denmark and Sweden had been bitter enemies for well over a century. However, Sweden feared a Catholic conquest of Copenhagen and Zealand. This would have granted the Catholic powers control over the strategic passages between the Baltic Sea and the North Sea, which would be disastrous for Swedish interests. As it turned out, the Imperial occupation of Denmark ended before Swedish intervention was necessary, and a squadron assigned to assist Denmark was retasked to help lift the Imperial siege of Stralsund.\n\nUntil the early 17th century, the Swedish navy was composed primarily of small to medium-sized ships with a single gundeck, normally armed with 12-pounder and smaller cannons; these ships were cheaper than larger ships and were well-suited for escort and patrol. They also suited the prevailing tactical thinking within the navy, which emphasised boarding as the decisive moment in a naval battle rather than gunnery. The king, who was a keen artillerist, saw the potential of ships as gun platforms, and large, heavily armed ships made a more dramatic statement in the political theater of naval power. Beginning with \"Vasa\", he ordered a series of ships with two full gundecks, outfitted with much heavier guns. Five such ships were built after \"Vasa\" (\"Äpplet\", \"Kronan\", \"Scepter\" and \"Göta Ark\") before the Privy Council cancelled the orders for the others after the king's death in 1632. These ships, especially \"Kronan\" and \"Scepter\", were much more successful and served as flagships in the Swedish navy until the 1660s. The second of the so-called \"regalskepp\" (usually translated as 'royal ships'), \"Äpplet\" ('The Apple'; the Swedish term for the globus cruciger), was built simultaneously with \"Vasa\". The only significant difference between the design of \"Vasa\" and her sister ship was an increase in width of about a metre (3.1 ft).\n\nIn the early 1620s, work at the Stockholm navy yard was led by a pair of Dutch-born entrepreneurs, Antonius Monier and master shipwright Henrik Hybertsson, who was usually referred to as 'Master Henrik'. When a new contract for operation of the navy yard was negotiated in the winter of 1624–1625, Monier withdrew and Master Henrik took on a young merchant from Amsterdam, Arendt de Groote, as partner. On 16 January 1625, Henrik and Arendt signed a contract to build four ships, two larger with a keel length of 128 feet (38 m) and two smaller, with dimensions to match the earlier ship \"Gustavus\".\n\nMaster Henrik and Arendt de Groote began buying the raw materials needed for the first ships in 1625, purchasing timber from individual estates in Sweden as well as buying rough-sawn planking in Riga, Königsberg (modern Kaliningrad), and Amsterdam. As they prepared to begin the first of the new ships in the autumn of 1625, Henrik corresponded with the king through the Vice Admiral Fleming about which ship to build first. The loss of ten ships in the Bay of Riga led the king to propose building two ships of a new, medium size as a quick compromise, and he sent a specification for this, a ship which would be 120 feet (35.6 m) long on the keel. Henrik declined, since he had already cut the timber for a large and a small ship. He laid the keel for a larger ship in late February or early March 1626. Master Henrik never saw Vasa completed; he fell ill in late 1625, and by the summer of 1626 he had handed over supervision of the work in the yard to another Dutch shipwright, Henrik 'Hein' Jacobsson. He died in the spring of 1627, probably about the same time as the ship was launched. After the death of Henrik Hybertsson, the responsibility to manage the construct the ship was inherited by his widow Margareta Hybertsson.\n\nAfter launching, work continued on finishing the upper deck, the sterncastle, the beakhead and the rigging. Sweden had still not developed a sizeable sailcloth industry, and material had to be ordered from abroad. In the contract for the maintenance of rigging, French sailcloth was specified, but the cloth for the sails of \"Vasa\" most likely came from Holland. The sails were made mostly of hemp and partly of flax. The rigging was made entirely of hemp imported from Latvia through Riga. The king visited the shipyard in January 1628 and made what was probably his only visit aboard the ship.\n\nIn the summer of 1628, the captain responsible for supervising construction of the ship, Söfring Hansson, arranged for the ship's stability to be demonstrated for the Vice Admiral responsible for procurement, Klas Fleming, who had recently arrived in Stockholm from Prussia. Thirty men ran back and forth across the upper deck to start the ship rolling, but the admiral stopped the test after they had made only three trips, as he feared the ship would capsize. According to testimony by the ship's master, Göran Mattson, Fleming remarked that he wished the king were at home. Gustavus Adolphus had been sending a steady stream of letters insisting that the ship put to sea as soon as possible.\n\nThere has been much speculation about whether \"Vasa\" was lengthened during construction and whether an additional gun deck was added late during the build. Little evidence suggests that \"Vasa\" was substantially modified after the keel was laid. Ships contemporary to \"Vasa\" that were elongated were cut in half and new timbers spliced between the existing sections, making the addition readily identifiable, but no such addition can be identified in the hull, nor is there any evidence for any late additions of a second gundeck. The king ordered 72 24-pound cannons for the ship on 5 August 1626, and this was too many to fit on a single gun deck. Since the king's order was issued less than five months after construction started, it would have come early enough for the second deck to be included in the design. The French \"Galion du Guise\", the ship used as a model for \"Vasa\", according to Arendt de Groote, also had two gun decks. Laser measurements of \"Vasa's\" structure conducted in 2007–2011 confirmed that no major changes were implemented during construction, but that the centre of gravity was too high.\n\n\"Vasa\" was an early example of a warship with two full gun decks, and was built when the theoretical principles of shipbuilding were still poorly understood. There is no evidence that Henrik Hybertsson had ever built a ship like it before, and two gundecks is a much more complicated compromise in seaworthiness and firepower than a single gundeck. Safety margins at the time were also far below anything that would be acceptable today. Combined with the fact that 17th-century warships were built with intentionally high superstructures (to be used as firing platforms), this made \"Vasa\" a risky undertaking.\n\n\"Vasa\" was built during a time of transition in naval tactics, from an era when boarding was still one of the primary ways of fighting enemy ships to an era of the strictly organised ship-of-the-line and a focus on victory through superior gunnery. \"Vasa\" was armed with powerful guns and built with a high stern, which would act as a firing platform in boarding actions for some of the 300 soldiers she was supposed to carry, but the high-sided hull and narrow upper deck were not optimised for boarding. She was neither the largest ship ever built, nor the one carrying the greatest number of guns. What made her arguably the most powerful warship of the time was the combined weight of shot that could be fired from the cannon of one side: 588 pounds (267 kg), excluding \"stormstycken\", guns used for firing anti-personnel ammunition instead of solid shot. This was the largest concentration of artillery in a single warship in the Baltic at the time, perhaps in all of northern Europe, and it was not until the 1630s that a ship with more firepower was built. This large amount of naval artillery was placed on a ship that was quite small relative to the armament carried. By comparison, \"USS Constitution\", a famous Napoleonic era frigate built 169 years after \"Vasa\", had roughly the same firepower, but was over 700 tonnes heavier.\n\nThe \"Constitution\", however, belonged to a later era of naval warfare that employed the line of battle-tactic, where ships fought in single file (or \"line ahead\") while the group as a whole attempted to present the batteries of one side toward the enemy. The guns would be aimed in the same direction and fire could be concentrated on a single target. In the 17th century, tactics involving organised formations of large fleets had still not been developed. Rather, ships would fight individually or in small improvised groups, and focused on boarding. \"Vasa\", though possessing a formidable battery, was built with these tactics in mind, and therefore lacked a unified broadside with guns that were all aimed in roughly the same direction. Rather, the guns were intended to be fired independently and were arranged according to the curvature of the hull, meaning that the ship would be bristled with artillery in all directions, covering virtually all angles.\n\nNaval gunnery in the 17th century was still in its infancy. Guns were expensive and had a much longer lifespan than any warship. Guns with a lifetime of over a century were not unheard of, while most warships would be used for only 15 to 20 years. In Sweden and many other European countries, a ship would normally not 'own' its guns, but would be issued armament from the armory for every campaign season. Ships were therefore usually fitted with guns of very diverse age and size. What allowed \"Vasa\" to carry so much firepower was not merely that an unusually large number of guns were crammed into a relatively small ship, but also that the 46 main 24-pounder guns were of a new and standardised lightweight design, cast in a single series at the state gun foundry in Stockholm, under the direction of the Swiss-born founder Medardus Gessus. Two additional 24-pounders, of a heavier and older design, were mounted in the bows, the so-called \"bow chasers\". Four more heavy guns were intended for the stern, but the cannon foundry could not cast guns as fast as the navy yard could build ships, and \"Vasa\" waited nearly a year after construction was finished for its armament. When the ship sailed in August 1628, eight of the planned armament of 72 guns had still not been delivered. All cannons during this time had to be made from individually made moulds that could not be reused, but \"Vasa's\" guns had such uniform precision in their manufacturing that their primary dimensions varied by only a few millimetres, and their bores were almost exactly 146 mm (5.7 in). The remaining armament of \"Vasa\" consisted of eight 3-pounders, six large caliber \"stormstycken\" (similar to what the English called howitzers) for use during boarding actions, and two 1-pound falconets. Also included on board were 894 kilograms (1,970 lb) of gunpowder and over 1,000 shot of various types for the guns.\n\nAs was the custom with warships at the time, \"Vasa\" was decorated with sculptures intended to glorify the authority, wisdom and martial prowess of the monarch and also to deride, taunt and intimidate the enemy. The sculptures made up a considerable part of the effort and cost of building the ship. The symbolism used in decorating the ship was mostly based on the Renaissance idealization of Roman and Greek antiquity, which had been imported from Italy through German and Dutch artists. Imagery borrowed from Mediterranean antiquity dominates the motifs, but also include figures from the Old Testament and even a few from ancient Egypt. Many of the figures are in Dutch grotesque style, depicting fantastic and frightening creatures, including mermaids, wild men, sea monsters and tritons. The decoration inside the ship is much sparser and is largely confined to the steerage and the great cabin, at the after end of the upper gundeck.\n\nResidues of paint have been found on many sculptures and on other parts of the ship. The entire ornamentation was once painted in vivid colors. The sides of the beakhead (the protruding structure below the bowsprit), the bulwarks (the protective railing around the weather deck), the roofs of the quarter galleries, and the background of the transom (the flat surface at the stern of the ship) were all painted red, while the sculptures were decorated in bright colors, and the dazzling effect of these was in some places emphasised with gold leaf. Previously, it was believed that the background color had been blue and that all sculptures had been almost entirely gilded, and this is reflected in many paintings of \"Vasa\" from the 1970s to the early 1990s, such as the lively and dramatic drawings of Björn Landström or the painting by Francis Smitheman. In the late 1990s, this view was revised and the colors are properly reflected in more recent reproductions of the ship's decoration by maritime painter Tim Thompson and the 1:10 scale model in the museum. \"Vasa\" is an example not so much of the heavily gilded sculptures of early Baroque art but rather 'the last gasps of the medieval sculpture tradition' with its fondness for gaudy colors, in a style that today would be considered extravagant or even vulgar.\nThe sculptures are carved out of oak, pine or linden, and many of the larger pieces, like the huge 3-metre (10 ft) long figurehead lion, consist of several parts carved individually and fitted together with bolts. Close to 500 sculptures, most of which are concentrated on the high stern and its galleries and on the beakhead, are found on the ship. The figure of Hercules appears as a pair of pendants, one younger and one older, on each side of the lower stern galleries; the pendants depict opposite aspects of the ancient hero, who was extremely popular during antiquity as well as in 17th-century European art. On the transom are biblical and nationalistic symbols and images. A particularly popular motif is the lion, which can be found as the mascarons originally fitted on the insides of the gunport doors, grasping the royal coat of arms on either side, the figurehead, and even clinging to the top of the rudder. Each side of the beakhead originally had 20 figures (though only 19 have actually been found) that depicted Roman emperors from Tiberius to Septimius Severus. Overall, almost all heroic and positive imagery is directly or indirectly identified with the king and was originally intended to glorify him as a wise and powerful ruler. The only actual portrait of the king, however, is located at the very top of the transom in the stern. Here he is depicted as a young boy with long, flowing hair, being crowned by two griffins representing the king's father, Charles IX.\nA team of at least six expert sculptors worked for a minimum of two years on the sculptures, most likely with the assistance of an unknown number of apprentices and assistants. No direct credit for any of the sculptures has been provided, but the distinct style of one of the most senior artists, Mårten Redtmer, is clearly identifiable. Other accomplished artists, like Hans Clausink, Johan Didrichson Tijsen (or \"Thessen\" in Swedish) and possibly Marcus Ledens, are known to have been employed for extensive work at the naval yards at the time \"Vasa\" was built, but their respective styles are not distinct enough to associate them directly with any specific sculptures.\n\nThe artistic quality of the sculptures varies considerably, and about four distinct styles can be identified. The only artist who has been positively associated with various sculptures is Mårten Redtmer, whose style has been described as 'powerful, lively and naturalistic'. He was responsible for a considerable number of the sculptures. These include some of the most important and prestigious pieces: the figurehead lion, the royal coat of arms, and the sculpture of the king at the top of the transom. Two of the other styles are described as 'elegant ... a little stereotyped and manneristic', and of a 'heavy, leisurely but nevertheless rich and lively style', respectively. The fourth and last style, deemed clearly inferior to the other three, is described as 'stiff and ungainly' and was done by other carvers, perhaps even apprentices, of lesser skill.\n\nOn 10 August 1628, Captain Söfring Hansson ordered \"Vasa\" to depart on her maiden voyage to the naval station at Älvsnabben. The day was calm, and the only wind was a light breeze from the southwest. The ship was warped (hauled by anchor) along the eastern waterfront of the city to the southern side of the harbor, where four sails were set, and the ship made way to the east. The gun ports were open, and the guns were out to fire a salute as the ship left Stockholm.\n\nAs \"Vasa\" passed under the lee of the bluffs to the south (what is now Södermalm), a gust of wind filled her sails, and she heeled suddenly to port. The sheets were cast off, and the ship slowly righted herself as the gust passed. At Tegelviken, where there is a gap in the bluffs, an even stronger gust again forced the ship onto its port side, this time pushing the open lower gunports under the surface, allowing water to rush in onto the lower gundeck. The water building up on the deck quickly exceeded the ship's minimal ability to right itself, and water continued to pour in until it ran down into the hold; the ship quickly sank to a depth of 32 m (105 ft) only 120 m (390 ft) from shore. Survivors clung to debris or the upper masts, which were still above the surface, to save themselves, and many nearby boats rushed to their aid, but despite these efforts and the short distance to land, 30 people perished with the ship, according to reports. \"Vasa\" sank in full view of a crowd of hundreds, if not thousands, of mostly ordinary Stockholmers who had come to see the great ship set sail. The crowd included foreign ambassadors, in effect spies of Gustavus Adolphus' allies and enemies, who also witnessed the catastrophe.\n\nThe Council sent a letter to the king the day after the loss, telling him of the sinking, but it took over two weeks to reach him in Poland. 'Imprudence and negligence' must have been the cause, he wrote angrily in his reply, demanding in no uncertain terms that the guilty parties be punished. Captain Söfring Hansson, who survived the disaster, was immediately taken for questioning. Under initial interrogation, he swore that the guns had been properly secured and that the crew was sober. A full inquest before a tribunal of members of the Privy Council and Admiralty took place at the Royal Palace on 5 September 1628. Each of the surviving officers was questioned as was the supervising shipwright and a number of expert witnesses. Also present at the inquest was the Admiral of the Realm, Carl Carlsson Gyllenhielm. The object of the inquest was as much or more to find a scapegoat as to find out why the ship had sunk. Whoever the committee might find guilty for the fiasco would face a severe penalty.\n\nSurviving crew members were questioned one by one about the handling of the ship at the time of the disaster. Was it rigged properly for the wind? Was the crew sober? Was the ballast properly stowed? Were the guns properly secured? However, no-one was prepared to take the blame. Crewmen and contractors formed two camps; each tried to blame the other, and everyone swore he had done his duty without fault and it was during the inquest that the details of the stability demonstration were revealed.\n\nNext, attention was directed to the shipbuilders. 'Why did you build the ship so narrow, so badly and without enough bottom that it capsized?' the prosecutor asked the shipwright Jacobsson. Jacobsson stated that he built the ship as directed by Henrik Hybertsson (long since dead and buried), who in turn had followed the specification approved by the king. Jacobsson had in fact widened the ship by 1 foot 5 inches (c. 42 cm) after taking over responsibility for the construction, but construction of the ship was too far advanced to allow further widening.\n\nIn the end, no guilty party could be found. The answer Arendt de Groote gave when asked by the court why the ship sank was 'Only God knows'. Gustavus Adolphus had approved all measurements and armaments, and the ship was built according to the instructions and loaded with the number of guns specified. In the end, no-one was punished or found guilty for negligence, and the blame effectively fell on Henrik Hybertsson.\n\nLess than three days after the disaster, a contract was signed for the ship to be raised. However, those efforts were unsuccessful. The earliest attempts at raising \"Vasa\" by English engineer Ian Bulmer, resulted in righting the ship but also got it more securely stuck in the mud and was most likely one of the biggest impediments to the earliest attempts at recovery. Salvaging technology in the early 17th century was much more primitive than today, but the recovery of ships used roughly the same principles as were used to raise \"Vasa\" more than 300 years later. Two ships or hulks were placed parallel to either side above the wreck, and ropes attached to several anchors were sent down and hooked to the ship. The two hulks were filled with as much water as was safe, the ropes tightened, and the water pumped out. The sunken ship then rose with the ships on the surface and could be towed to shallower waters. The process was then repeated until the entire ship was successfully raised above water level. Even if the underwater weight of \"Vasa\" was not great, the mud in which it had settled made it sit more secure on the bottom and required considerable lifting power to overcome. More than 30 years after the ship's sinking, in 1663–1665, Albreckt von Treileben and Andreas Peckell mounted an effort to recover the valuable guns. With a simple diving bell, the team of Swedish and Finnish divers retrieved more than 50 of them.\n\nSuch activity waned when it became clear that the ship could not be raised by the technology of the time. However, \"Vasa\" did not fall completely into obscurity after the recovery of the guns. The ship was mentioned in several histories of Sweden and the Swedish Navy, and the location of the wreck appeared on harbor charts of Stockholm in the 19th century. In 1844, the navy officer Anton Ludwig Fahnehjelm turned in a request for salvaging rights to the ship, claiming he had located it. Fahnehjelm was an inventor who designed an early form of light diving suit and had previously been involved in other salvage operations. There were dives made on the wreck in 1895–1896, and a commercial salvage company applied for a permit to raise or salvage the wreck in 1920, but this was turned down. In 1999, a witness also claimed that his father, a petty officer in the Swedish navy, had taken part in diving exercises on \"Vasa\" in the years before World War I. There is no evidence that anyone visited the wreck site after this until the beginning of the modern \"Vasa\" project.\n\nIn the 333 years that \"Vasa\" lay on the bottom of Stockholm harbor (called Stockholms ström, 'the Stream', in Swedish), the ship and its contents were subject to several destructive forces, first among which were decomposition and erosion. Among the first things to decompose were the thousands of iron bolts that held the beakhead and much of the sterncastle together, and this included all of the ship's wooden sculptures. Almost all of the iron on the ship rusted away within a few years of the sinking, and only large objects, such as anchors, or items made of cast iron, such as cannonballs, survived. Organic materials fared better in the anaerobic conditions, and so wood, cloth and leather are often in very good condition, but objects exposed to the currents were eroded by the sediment in the water, so that some are barely recognizable. Objects which fell off the hull into the mud after the nails corroded through were well protected, so that many of the sculptures still retain areas of paint and gilding. Of the human remains, most of the soft tissue was quickly consumed by bacteria, fish and crustaceans, leaving only the bones, which were often held together only by clothing, although in one case, hair, nails and brain tissue survived.\n\nThe parts of the hull held together by joinery and wooden treenails remained intact for as much as two centuries, suffering gradual erosion of surfaces exposed to the water, unless they were disturbed by outside forces. \nEventually the entire sterncastle, the high, aft portion of the ship that housed the officers' quarters and held up the transom, gradually collapsed into the mud with all the decorative sculptures. The quarter galleries, which were merely nailed to the sides of the sterncastle, collapsed fairly quickly and were found lying almost directly below their original locations.\nHuman activity was the most destructive factor, as the initial salvage efforts, the recovery of the guns, and the final salvage in the 20th century all left their marks. Peckell and Treileben broke up and removed much of the planking of the weather deck to get to the cannons on the decks below. Peckell reported that he had recovered 30 cartloads of wood from the ship; these might have included not just planking and structural details but also some of the sculptures which today are missing, such as the life-size Roman warrior near the bow and the sculpture of Septimius Severus that adorned the port side of the beakhead. Since \"Vasa\" lay in a busy shipping channel, ships occasionally dropped anchor over the ship, and one large anchor demolished most of the upper sterncastle, probably in the 19th century. Construction work in Stockholm harbor usually results in blasting of bedrock, and the resulting tonnes of rubble were often dumped in the harbor; some of this landed on the ship, causing further damage to the stern and the upper deck.\n\nIn the early 1950s, amateur archaeologist Anders Franzén considered the possibility of recovering wrecks from the cold brackish waters of the Baltic because, he reasoned, they were free from the shipworm \"Teredo navalis\", which usually destroys submerged wood rapidly in warmer, saltier seas. Franzén had previously been successful in locating wrecks such as \"Riksäpplet\" and \"Lybska Svan\", and after long and tedious research he began looking for \"Vasa\" as well. He spent many years probing the waters without success around the many assumed locations of the wreckage. He did not succeed until, based on accounts of an unknown topographical anomaly just south of the Gustav V dock on Beckholmen, he narrowed his search. In 1956, with a home-made, gravity-powered coring probe, he located a large wooden object almost parallel to the mouth of dock on Beckholmen. The location of the ship received considerable attention, even if the identification of the ship could not be determined without closer investigation. Soon after the announcement of the find, planning got underway to determine how to excavate and raise \"Vasa\". The Swedish Navy was involved from the start, as were various museums and the National Heritage board, representatives of which eventually formed the \"Vasa\" Committee, the predecessor of the \"Vasa\" Board.\nA number of possible recovery methods were proposed, including filling the ship with ping-pong balls and freezing it in a block of ice, but the method chosen by the Vasa Board (which succeeded the Vasa Committee) was essentially the same one attempted immediately after the sinking. Divers spent two years digging six tunnels under the ship for steel cable slings, which were taken to a pair of lifting pontoons at the surface. The work under the ship was extremely dangerous, requiring the divers to cut tunnels through the clay with high-pressure water jets and suck up the resulting slurry with a dredge, all while working in total darkness with hundreds of tonnes of mud-filled ship overhead. A persisting risk was that the wreck could shift or settle deeper into the mud while a diver was working in a tunnel, trapping him underneath the wreckage. The almost vertical sections of the tunnels near the side of the hull could also potentially collapse and bury a diver inside. Despite the dangerous conditions, more than 1,300 dives were made in the salvage operation without any serious accidents.\n\nEach time the pontoons were pumped full, the cables tightened and the pontoons were pumped out, the ship was brought a metre closer to the surface. In a series of 18 lifts in August and September 1959, the ship was moved from depth of 32 metres (105 ft) to 16 metres (52 ft) in the more sheltered area of Kastellholmsviken, where divers could work more safely to prepare for the final lift. Over the course of a year and a half, a small team of commercial divers cleared debris and mud from the upper decks to lighten the ship, and made the hull as watertight as possible. The gun ports were closed by means of temporary lids, a temporary replacement of the collapsed sterncastle was constructed, and many of the holes from the iron bolts that had rusted away were plugged. The final lift began on 8 April 1961, and on the morning of 24 April, \"Vasa\" was ready to return to the world for the first time in 333 years. Press from all over the world, television cameras, 400 invited guests on barges and boats, and thousands of spectators on shore watched as the first timbers broke the surface. The ship was then emptied of water and mud and towed to the Gustav V dry dock on Beckholmen, where the ship was floated on its own keel onto a concrete pontoon, on which the hull still stands.\n\nFrom the end of 1961 to December 1988, \"Vasa\" was housed in a temporary facility called Wasavarvet ('The Vasa Shipyard'), which included exhibit space as well as the activities centred on the ship. A building was erected over the ship on its pontoon, but it was very cramped, making conservation work awkward. Visitors could view the ship from just two levels, and the maximum viewing distance was in most places only a couple of metres, which made it difficult for viewers to get an overall view of the ship. In 1981, the Swedish government decided that a permanent building was to be constructed, and a design competition was organised. The winning design, by the Swedish architects Månsson and Dahlbäck, called for a large hall over the ship in a polygonal, industrial style. Ground was broken in 1987, and \"Vasa\" was towed into the half-finished Vasa Museum in December 1988. The museum was officially opened to the public in 1990.\n\n\"Vasa\" posed an unprecedented challenge for archaeologists. Never before had a four-story structure, with most of its original contents largely undisturbed, been available for excavation. The conditions under which the team had to work added to the difficulties. The ship had to be kept wet in order that it not dry out and crack before it could be properly conserved. Digging had to be performed under a constant drizzle of water and in a sludge-covered mud that could be more than one metre (approximately three feet) deep. In order to establish find locations, the hull was divided into several sections demarcated by the many structural beams, the decking and by a line drawn along the centre of the ship from stern to bow. For the most part, the decks were excavated individually, though at times work progressed on more than one deck level simultaneously.\n\n\"Vasa\" had four preserved decks: the upper and lower gun decks, the hold and the orlop. Because of the constraints of preparing the ship for conservation, the archaeologists had to work quickly, in 13-hour shifts during the first week of excavation. The upper gun deck was greatly disturbed by the various salvage projects between 1628 and 1961, and it contained not only material that had fallen down from the rigging and upper deck, but also more than three centuries of harbor refuse. The decks below were progressively less disturbed. The gundecks contained not just gun carriages, the three surviving cannons, and other objects of a military nature, but were also where most of the personal possessions of the sailors had been stored at the time of the sinking. These included a wide range of loose finds, as well as chests and casks with spare clothing and shoes, tools and materials for mending, money (in the form of low-denomination copper coins), privately purchased provisions, and all of the everyday objects needed for life at sea. Most of the finds are of wood, testifying not only to the simple life on board, but to the generally unsophisticated state of Swedish material culture in the early 17th century. The lower decks were primarily used for storage, and so the hold was filled with barrels of provisions and gunpowder, coils of anchor cable, iron shot for the guns, and the personal possessions of some of the officers. On the orlop deck, a small compartment contained six of the ship's ten sails, rigging spares, and the working parts for the ship's pumps. Another compartment contained the possessions of the ship's carpenter, including a large tool chest.\n\nAfter the ship itself had been salvaged and excavated, the site of the loss was excavated thoroughly during 1963–1967. This produced many items of rigging tackle as well as structural timbers that had fallen off, particularly from the beakhead and sterncastle. Most of the sculptures that had decorated the exterior of the hull were also found in the mud, along with the ship's anchors and the skeletons of at least four people. The last object to be brought up was the nearly 12-metre-long longboat, called \"esping\" in Swedish, found lying parallel to the ship and believed to have been towed by \"Vasa\" when she sank.\n\nMany of the more recent objects contaminating the site were disregarded when the finds were registered, but some were the remains of the 1660s salvage efforts and others had their own stories to tell. Among the best known of these was a statue of 20th-century Finnish runner Paavo Nurmi, which was placed on the ship as a prank by students of Helsinki University of Technology the night before the final lift.\n\n\"Vasa\" sank because it had very little initial stability, which can be thought of as resistance to heeling over under the force of wind or waves acting on the hull. The reason for this is that the distribution of mass in the hull structure and the ballast, guns, provisions, and other objects loaded on board puts too much weight too high in the ship. The centre of gravity is too high, and so it takes very little force to make the ship heel over, and there is not enough righting moment, force trying to make the ship return to an upright position. The reason that the ship has such a high centre of gravity is not due to the guns. These weighed little over 60 tonnes, or about 5% of the total displacement of the loaded ship. This is relatively low weight and should be bearable in a ship this size. The problem is in the hull construction itself. The part of the hull above the waterline is too high and too heavily built in relation to the amount of hull in the water. The headroom in the decks is higher than necessary for crewmen who were, on average, only 1.67 metres (5 feet 5½ inches) tall, and thus the weight of the decks and the guns they carry is higher above the waterline than needed. In addition, the deck beams and their supporting timbers are over-dimensioned and too closely spaced for the loads they carry, so they contribute too much weight to the already tall and heavy upper works.\n\nThe use of different measuring systems on either side of the vessel caused its mass to be distributed asymmetrically, heavier to port. During construction both Swedish feet and Amsterdam feet were in use by different teams. Archaeologists have found four rulers used by the workmen who built the ship. Two were calibrated in Swedish feet, which had 12 inches, while the other two measured Amsterdam feet, which had 11 inches.\n\nAlthough the mathematical tools for calculating or predicting stability were still more than a century in the future, and 17th-century scientific ideas about how ships behaved in water were deeply flawed, the people associated with building and sailing ships for the Swedish navy were very much aware of the forces at work and their relationships to each other. In the last part of the inquest held after the sinking, a group of master shipwrights and senior naval officers were asked for their opinions about why the ship sank. Their discussion and conclusions show very clearly that they knew what had happened, and their verdict was summed up very clearly by one of the captains, who said that the ship did not have enough 'belly' to carry the heavy upperworks.\n\nShip design was not yet a science, but was an empirical process based on experience rather than calculation. Balancing the military need for firepower against the maritime need for seaworthiness resulted in some compromises that would not pass modern standards for stability. A ship with two gundecks was an even more demanding proposition, as the lower tier of gunports had to be uncomfortably close to the water, and there was an unavoidably large amount of weight being carried above the waterline. One of the solutions which became common was graduated armament, in which the guns of the upper decks were progressively lighter. Such an armament, with 24-pounders on the lower gundeck and 12-pounders on the upper gundeck, was considered for \"Vasa\" in 1627, but eventually the armament plan reverted to the king's original desire of 24-pounders on both decks. \"Vasa\"s sister ship, \"Äpplet\", had her upper gundeck 24-pounders changed for 12-pounders early in her career, probably in attempt to improve her stability.\n\n\"Vasa\" might not have sunk on 10 August 1628, if the ship had been sailed with the gunports closed. Ships with multiple tiers of gunports normally had to sail with the lowest tier closed, since the pressure of wind in the sails would usually push the hull over until the lower gunport sills were under water. For this reason, the gunport lids are made with a double lip which is designed to seal well enough to keep out most of the water. Captain Söfring Hansson had ordered the lower gundeck ports closed once the ship began to take on water, but by then it was too late. If he had done it before he sailed, \"Vasa\" might not have sunk on that day.\n\nAlthough \"Vasa\" was in surprisingly good condition after 333 years at the bottom of the sea, it would have quickly deteriorated if the hull had been simply allowed to dry. The large bulk of \"Vasa\", over 600 cubic metres (21,000 cu ft) of oak timber, constituted an unprecedented conservation problem. After some debate on how to best preserve the ship, conservation was carried out by impregnation with polyethylene glycol (PEG), a method that has since become the standard treatment for large, waterlogged wooden objects, such as the 16th-century English ship \"Mary Rose\". \"Vasa\" was sprayed with PEG for 17 years, followed by a long period of slow drying, which is not yet entirely complete.\n\nThe reason that \"Vasa\" was so well-preserved was not just that the shipworm that normally devours wooden ships was absent but also that the water of Stockholms ström was heavily polluted until the late 20th century. The highly toxic and hostile environment meant that even the toughest microorganisms that break down wood had difficulty surviving. This, along with the fact that \"Vasa\" had been newly built and was undamaged when she sank, contributed to her conservation. Unfortunately, the properties of the water also had a negative effect. Chemicals present in the water around \"Vasa\" had penetrated the wood, and the timber was full of the corrosion products from the bolts and other iron objects which had disappeared. Once the ship was exposed to the air, reactions began inside the timber that produced acidic compounds. In the late 1990s, spots of white and yellow residue were noticed on \"Vasa\" and some of the associated artefacts. These turned out to be sulfate-containing salts that had formed on the surface of the wood when sulfides reacted with atmospheric oxygen. The salts on the surface of \"Vasa\" and objects found in and around it are not a threat themselves (even if the discolouring may be distracting), but if they are from inside the wood, they may expand and crack the timber from inside. As of 2002, the amount of sulfuric acid in \"Vasa\"'s hull was estimated to be more than 2 tonnes, and more is continually being created. Enough sulfides are present in the ship to produce another 5,000 kilograms (11,000 lb) of acid at a rate of about 100 kilograms (220 lb) per year; this might eventually destroy the ship almost entirely.\n\nWhile most of the scientific community considers that the destructive substance responsible for \"Vasa\"'s long-term decay is sulfuric acid, Ulla Westermark, professor of wood technology at Luleå University of Technology, has proposed another mechanism with her colleague Börje Stenberg. Experiments done by Japanese researchers show that treating wood with PEG in an acidic environment can generate formic acid and eventually liquify the wood. \"Vasa\" was exposed to acidic water for more than three centuries, and therefore has a relatively low pH. Samples taken from the ship indicate that formic acid is present, and that it could be one of the multiple causes of a suddenly accelerated rate of decomposition.\nThe museum is constantly monitoring the ship for damage caused by decay or warping of the wood. Ongoing research seeks the best way to preserve the ship for future generations and to analyze the existing material as closely as possible. A current problem is that the old oak of which the ship is built has lost a substantial amount of its original strength and the cradle that supports the ship does not match up very well with the distribution of weight and stress in the hull. 'The amount of movement in the hull is worrying. If nothing is done, the ship will most likely capsize again', states Magnus Olofson from the \"Vasa\" Museum. An effort to secure \"Vasa\" for the future is under way, in cooperation with the Royal Institute of Technology and other institutions around the globe.\n\nTo deal with the problem of the inevitable deterioration of the ship, the main hall of the \"Vasa\" Museum is kept at a temperature of and a humidity level of 53%. To slow the destruction by acidic compounds, different methods have been tried. Small objects have been sealed in plastic containers filled with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen gas, for halting further reactions between sulfides and oxygen. The ship itself has been treated with cloth saturated in a basic liquid to neutralise the low pH, but this is only a temporary solution as acid is continuously produced. The original bolts rusted away after the ship sank but were replaced with modern ones that were galvanised and covered with epoxy resin. Despite this, the newer bolts also started to rust and were releasing iron into the wood, which accelerated the deterioration. Those bolts were replaced with bolts made of stainless steel between 2011 and 2018.\n\n\"Vasa\" has become a popular and widely recognised symbol for a historical narrative about the Swedish \"stormaktstiden\" ('the Great Power-period') in the 17th century, and about the early development of a European nation state. Within the disciplines of history and maritime archaeology the wrecks of large warships from the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries have received particularly widespread attention as perceived symbols of a past greatness of the state of Sweden. Among these wrecks, \"Vasa\" is the single best known example, and has also become recognised internationally, not least through a deliberate use of the ship as a symbol for marketing Sweden abroad. The name \"Vasa\" has in Sweden become synonymous with sunken vessels that are considered to be of great historical importance, and these are usually described, explained and valued in relation to \"Vasa\" itself. The Swedish maritime archaeologist Carl-Olof Cederlund, who has been active in the various \"Vasa\"-projects, has described the phenomenon as \"regalskepps-syndromet\", 'the royal ship syndrome' (after the term used in the 17th century for the largest warships in the Swedish navy). He associates the 'syndrome' to a nationalist aspect of the history of ideas and traditional perceptions about hero-kings and glory through war. The focus of this historical theory lies on the 'great periods' in 'our [Swedish] history' and shares many similarities with the nationalist views of the Viking era in the Nordic countries and the praising of Greek and Roman Antiquity in the Western world in general. Cederlund has stressed the ritualised aspects of the widely publicised salvage in 1961 and has compared the modern Vasa Museum with 'a temple in the Classical sense of the word'. The placement of the museum on Djurgården, traditional crown property, and its focus on 'the King's ship' has led him to suggest a description of it as 'The Temple of the Royal Ship'.\n\n\"Vasa\" has been the subject of hundreds of books, articles and papers on topics ranging from marine archaeology to culinary history. Three children's books about \"Vasa\" have been written in Swedish and later translated into English, German, Danish, and Norwegian: \"The Vasa Saga\" by Bertil Almqvist, \"The Vasa Sets Sail\" by Mats Wahl (illustrated by Sven Nordqvist), and \"The Vasa Piglet\" by Björn Bergenholtz.\n\n\"Vasa's\" unique status has drawn considerable attention and captured the imagination of more than two generations of scholars, tourists, model builders, and authors. Though historically unfounded, the popular perception of the building of the ship as a botched and disorganised affair (dubbed 'the \"Vasa\"-syndrome') has been used by many authors of management literature as an educational example of how not to organise a successful business. In \"The Tender Ship\", Manhattan Project engineer Arthur Squires used the \"Vasa\" story as an opening illustration of his thesis that governments are usually incompetent managers of technology projects.\nThe Vasa Museum has co-sponsored two versions of a documentary about the history and recovery of the ship, both by documentary filmmaker Anders Wahlgren. The second version is currently shown in the museum and has been released on VHS and DVD with narration in 16 languages. In late 2011, a third \"Vasa\"-film premiered on Swedish television, with a longer running time and a considerably larger budget (with over 7.5 million kronor provided by SVT). An educational computer game, now in its second generation, has been made and is used in the museum and on its website to explain the fundamentals of 17th century ship construction and stability. Several mass-produced model kits and countless custom-built models of the ship have been made. In 1991, a 308-tonne pastiche reproduction of the ship was built in Tokyo to serve as a 650-passenger sightseeing ship. \"Vasa\" has inspired many works of art, including a gilded Disney-themed parody of the pilaster sculptures on the ship's quarter galleries. Being a popular tourist attraction, \"Vasa\" is used as a motif for various souvenir products such as T-shirts, mugs, refrigerator magnets, and posters. Commercially produced replicas—such as drinking glasses, plates, spoons, and even a backgammon game—have been made from many of the objects belonging to the crew or officers found on the ship.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4368247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4368247", "title": "Wissenschaft des Judentums", "text": "Wissenschaft des Judentums\n\n\"Wissenschaft des Judentums\" (\"Jewish Studies\" or \"Judaic Studies\" in German; also \"Science of Judaism\") refers to a nineteenth-century movement premised on the critical investigation of Jewish literature and culture, including rabbinic literature, using scientific methods to analyze the origins of Jewish traditions.\n\nThe first organized attempt at developing and disseminating \"Wissenschaft des Judentums\" was the \"Verein für Kultur und Wissenschaft der Juden\" (\"Society for the Culture and Science of the Jews\"), founded around 1819 by Eduard Gans, (a pupil of Hegel), and his associates . Other members included Heinrich Heine, Leopold Zunz, Moses Moser, and Michael Beer, (youngest brother of Meyerbeer). It was an attempt to provide a construct for the Jews as a \"Volk\" or people in their own right, independent of their religious traditions. As such it sought to validate their secular cultural traditions as being on an equal footing with those adduced by Johann Gottfried Herder and his followers for the German people. Immanuel Wolf’s influential essay \"Über den Begriff einer Wissenschaft des Judentums\" (On the Concept of a Science of Judaism) of 1822, has such ideas in mind. The failure of the Verein, attributable largely to the far greater attraction, amongst German Jews, of identification with German culture, was followed, significantly, by the conversion to Christianity of many of its leading figures, including Gans and Heine.\n\nDespite the lack of success of the \"Verein für Kultur und Wissenschaft der Juden\", its principles inspired many Jewish thinkers to invest their efforts in a wider \"Wissenschaft des Judentums\" movement, and also provoked a conservative reaction (see Opposition). The historian Amos Elon, in his book \"The Pity of it All\", places the movement in the context of anti-Semitic riots in Germany in 1819. The purpose, Elon writes, \"was to bring ordinary Jews into the orbit of German \"Kultur\" and at the same time reinforce their Jewish identity by bridging the gulf between secular and religious education\"; the movement sought to explore Judaism as \"both secular civilization and religion\", and thereby \"help young Jews to remain Jews\", even as they moved to a more secular view. According to Dr. Henry Abramson, the primary aim of the proponents of the movement was to articulate a modality of Jewish identity that was consonant with nineteenth century values, and where Jews had to demonstrate that they were patriotic members of their own societies, and at the same time express their Judaism proudly.\n\nProponents of \"Wissenschaft des Judentums\" attempted to place Jewish culture on par with Western European culture, as evinced in Goethe's ideas of Bildung, and endeavored to have \"Jewish Studies\" introduced into the university curriculum as a respectable area of study, freeing the field from the prevailing bias that regarded Judaism as an inferior precursor to Christianity and studied it as such. They also developed and advocated a style of scholarship which allowed complete freedom in the interpretation of traditional texts, and which might be pursued without concerns about the practical ramifications such interpretations might have for religious observance and religious life .\n\nLeopold Zunz (1794–1886), one of the movement's leading figures, devoted much of his work to rabbinic literature. At the time, Christian thinkers maintained that the Jews' contribution ended with the Bible, and Zunz began to publish in the area of post-biblical rabbinic literature. His essays \"Etwas über die rabbinische Literatur\" and \"Zur Geschichte und Literatur\" addressed this issue. His biography of Rashi of Troyes was pivotal. When the Prussian government forbade preaching sermons in German synagogues, on the grounds that the sermon was an exclusively Christian institution, Zunz wrote \"History of the Jewish Sermon\" in 1832. This work has been described as \"the most important Jewish book published in the 19th century.\" It lays down principles for the investigation of the Rabbinic exegesis (Midrash) and of the siddur (prayer-book of the synagogue).\n\nDespite the outstanding scholarship of \"Wissenschaft\" personalities such as Zunz and Heinrich Graetz (most of whom pursued their scholarly labors on their own time as \"Privatgelehrte\"), the \"Wissenschaft\" movement as a whole had a tendency to present Judaism as an historical relic with frequently apologetic overtones, and often ignored matters of contemporary relevance:\nZunz felt obliged to assume that Judaism had come to an end, and that it was the task of \"Wissenschaft des Judentums\" to provide a judicious accounting of the varied and rich contributions which Judaism had made to civilization. In a similar spirit, Steinschneider is said to have once quipped that \"Wissenschaft des Judentums\" seeks to ensure that Judaism will receive a proper burial, in which scholarship amounts to an extended obituary properly eulogizing the deceased.\n\nNevertheless, throughout most of its existence and despite certain of its most prominent practitioners, such as Moritz Steinschneider, being vocal opponents of religion, \"Wissenschaft des Judentums\" was very much a religious movement—pursued largely by rabbis at Jewish seminaries who were engaged in preparing their students for rabbinical careers. In a foreshadowing of the reform movement, Zunz often led services, which were accompanied by an organ, in the vernacular German, rather than Hebrew. \"Wissenschaft\" scholars such as Rabbi Zacharias Frankel, the first head of the Jewish Theological Seminary of Breslau, and his colleague at the seminary, historian Heinrich Graetz, considered Jewish history to be reflective of a divine revelation and guidance. Wissenschaft des Judentums was not restricted to progressive Judaism. In 1873, Israel Hildesheimer founded the neo-orthodox modern Rabbinerseminar in Berlin. One of its most prominent scholars, David Hoffmann, defended a literal reading of the Biblical \"word\" which he understood to be the exact product of divine revelation. It was this essentially religious nature of \"Wissenschaft des Judentums\" that made it even more dangerous in the eyes of its opponents. Christians even thought that a more liberal form of Judaism would attract converts, or would keep Jews from converting to Christianity, and so the government forced Zunz's synagogue to close.\n\nIndeed, one detects in the writings of many Wissenschaft scholars not only an intense love of scholarship \"for its own sake\", but also a genuine affinity for the rabbis and scholars of old, whose works they find themselves documenting, editing, publishing, analyzing, and critiquing. Indeed, far from disparaging or despising the Jewish religion and its many generations of rabbinical scholars, the majority of Wissenschaft practitioners are very keen to take \"ownership\" of the Jewish scholarly tradition. They see themselves as the rightful heirs and successors to Saadia Gaon and Rashi and Hillel the Elder and Abraham ibn Ezra, and in those prior generations of scholars they see their own Wissenschaft spirit and likeness.\n\nIn the Wissenschaft approach to scholarship, then, the earlier generations of scholars become \"de-sanctified\" and \"re-humanized\". Wissenschaft scholars feel completely free to pass judgment on the intellectual and scholarly capacities of earlier scholars, evaluating their originality, competence, and credibility, and pointing out their failures and limitations. The Wissenschaft scholars, while respectful of their predecessors, have no patience for a concept such as \"yeridat ha-dorot\". For them, the classical authorities are no more beyond dispute and critique than are contemporary scholars; the opinions of ibn Ezra and Steinschneider may be presented in the same sentence without any sense of impropriety, and either one may then be debunked with the same forwardness. No doubt this de-sanctification of the Jewish luminaries provided further grist for the opponents of the movement.\n\nAlthough the \"Wissenschaft\" movement produced a vast number of scholarly publications of lasting value, and its influence still reverberates through Jewish Studies departments (and, indeed, some yeshivas) around the world, it is possible to regard the publication of the \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" in 1901–1906 as the culmination and final flowering of this era in Jewish studies . The choice of English over German as the language for this epochal work is a further sign that an era of German scholarship was drawing to a close. In the early years of the new century the \"Wissenschaft\" culture and style of scholarship was transplanted to a certain extent to bodies such as the \"Institute for Jewish Studies\" at Hebrew University (e.g., Gershom Scholem) and Jewish Studies departments at American universities such as Brandeis and Harvard (e.g., Harry Austryn Wolfson).\n\nThe \"Wissenschaft\" movement drew criticism from traditional elements in the Jewish community, who regarded it as sterile at best, and at worst damaging to the religious community. A key opposition leader was Samson Raphael Hirsch. He and other traditional religious scholars representing urban and sophisticated Orthodox constituencies regarded the \"Wissenschaft\" movement as failing to meet the needs of the living Jewish community; Mendes-Flohr observes in this context that historians, by virtue of their craft, necessarily \"transform traditional knowledge, draining it of its sacral power.\" The Orthodox orientation of \"Wissenschaft\" figures such as David Zvi Hoffmann did not spare them from Hirsch's condemnation.\n\nJulius Guttmann is best known for \"Die Philosophie des Judentums\" (Reinhardt, 1933), translations of which are available in Hebrew, Spanish, English, Japanese, etc. The English title is \"The Philosophy of Judaism: The History of Jewish Philosophy from Biblical Times to Franz Rosenzweig\" (New York, 1964).\n\nRoth sees in this publication \"the last product in the direct line of the authentic Judaeo-German 'Science of Judaism'\" (more commonly known as Wissenschaft des Judentums). While the movement did not utterly expire with the publication Guttman's work—its spirit living on in the work of G. Scholem and H.A. Wolfson among many others—it is certainly the case that the Wissenschaft movement in Germany had by the 1930s already ceased to thrive.\n\nThe original German edition of Philosophie des Judentums ends with Hermann Cohen, the primary influence on Guttman's own philosophy, while the later Hebrew edition includes Franz Rosenzweig. It is also notable that Guttman's work excludes major thinkers of the Kabbalistic school, which reflects his own attitude toward Jewish philosophy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1227905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1227905", "title": "Words per minute", "text": "Words per minute\n\nWords per minute, commonly abbreviated wpm (sometimes uppercased WPM), is a measure of words processed in a minute, often used as a measurement of the speed of typing, reading or Morse code sending and receiving.\n\nSince the length or duration of words is clearly variable, for the purpose of measurement of text entry, the definition of each \"word\" is often standardized to be five characters or keystrokes long in English, including spaces and punctuation. For example, under such a method applied to plain English text the phrase \"I run\" counts as one word, but \"rhinoceros\" and \"let's talk\" would both count as two.\n\nBrandon Raziano found that one study of average computer users in 1997, the average rate for transcription was 33 words per minute, and 19 words per minute for composition. In the same study, when the group was divided into \"fast\", \"moderate\", and \"slow\" groups, the average speeds were 40 wpm, 35 wpm, and 23 wpm, respectively.\n\nWith the onset of the era of desktop computers, fast typing skills became much more widespread.\n\nAn average professional typist types usually in speeds of 50 to 80 wpm, while some positions can require 80 to 95 (usually the minimum required for dispatch positions and other time-sensitive typing jobs), and some advanced typists work at speeds above 120 wpm. Two-finger typists, sometimes also referred to as \"hunt and peck\" typists, commonly reach sustained speeds of about 37 wpm for memorized text and 27 wpm when copying text, but in bursts may be able to reach much higher speeds. From the 1920s through the 1970s, typing speed (along with shorthand speed) was an important secretarial qualification and typing contests were popular and often publicized by typewriter companies as promotional tools.\n\nStenotype keyboards enable the trained user to input text as fast as 225 wpm or faster at very high accuracy for an extended period of time, which is sufficient for real-time activities such as court reporting or closed captioning. While dropout rates are very high—in some cases, only 10% or even less graduate—stenotype students are usually able to reach speeds of 100–120 wpm within six months, which is faster than most alphanumeric typists. Guinness World Records gives 360 wpm with 97.23% accuracy as the highest achieved speed using a stenotype.\n\nThe numeric entry or 10 key speed is a measure of one's ability to manipulate the numeric keypad found on most modern separate computer keyboards. It is used to measure speed for jobs such as data entry of number information on items such as remittance advice, bills, or checks, as deposited to lockboxes. It is measured in \"Keystrokes per hour,\" or KPH. Many jobs require a certain KPH, often 8,000 or 10,000.\n\nFor an adult population (age range 18–64) the average speed of copying is 68 letters per minute (approximately 13 wpm), with the range from a minimum of 26 to a maximum of 113 letters per minute (approximately 5 to 20 wpm).\n\nA study of police interview records showed that the highest speed fell in the range 120–155 characters per minute, the highest possible limit being 190 characters per minute.\n\nAccording to various studies the speed of handwriting of 3–7 graders varies from 25 to 94 letters per minute.\n\nUsing stenography (shorthand) methods, this rate increases greatly. Handwriting speeds up to 350 words per minute have been achieved in shorthand competitions.\n\nWords per minute is a common metric for assessing reading speed and is often used in the context of remedial skills evaluation, as well as in the context of speed reading, where it is a controversial measure of reading performance.\n\nA word in this context is the same as in the context of speech.\n\nResearch done in 2012 measured the speed at which subjects read a text aloud, and found the average speed across 17 different languages to be 184±29 wpm or 863±234 characters per minute. However, for the languages that use the Latin or Cyrillic alphabets, the number of wpm varied, as low as 161±18 for Finnish and as high as 228±30 for English. The reason for this is different word structures in each language (longer words in such languages as Finnish and shorter words in English). However, the number of characters per minute tends to be around 1000 for all the tested languages. For the tested Asian languages that use particular writing systems (Arabic, Hebrew, Chinese, Japanese) these numbers are lower.\n\nScientific studies have demonstrated that reading—defined here as capturing and decoding all the words on every page—faster than 900 wpm is not feasible given the limits set by the anatomy of the eye.\n\nWhile proofreading materials, people are able to read English at 200 wpm on paper, and 180 wpm on a monitor. [Those numbers from Ziefle, 1998, are for studies that used monitors prior to 1992. See Noyes & Garland 2008 for a modern tech view of equivalence.]\n\nAudiobooks are recommended to be 150–160 words per minute, which is the range that people comfortably hear and vocalize words.\n\nSlide presentations tend to be closer to 100–125 wpm for a comfortable pace, auctioneers can speak at about 250 wpm, and the fastest speaking policy debaters speak from 350 to over 500 words per minute. Internet speech calculators show that various things influence words per minute including nervousness.\n\nJohn Moschitta, Jr., was listed in \"Guinness World Records\", for a time, as the world's fastest speaker, being able to talk at 586 wpm. He has since been surpassed by Steve Woodmore, who achieved a rate of 637 wpm.\n\nMorse code uses variable length sequences of short and long duration \"signals\" (dots and dashes) to represent source information e.g. sequences for the letter \"K\" and numeral \"2\" are respectively () and (). This variability complicates the measurement of Morse code speed rated in words per minute. Using telegram messages, the average English word length is about five characters, each averaging 5.124 dot durations or baud. Spacing between words should also be considered, being seven dot durations in the USA and five in British territories. So the average British telegraph word was 30.67 dot times. So the baud rate of a Morse code is × word per minute rate.\n\nIt is standard practice to use two different such \"standard words\" to measure Morse code speeds in words per minute. The standard words are: \"PARIS\" and \"CODEX\". In Morse code \"PARIS\" has 50 dot durations, while \"CODEX\" has 60.\n\nMorse is still widely used by amateur radio operators (hams). Experienced hams routinely send Morse at 20 words per minute, using manually operated hand telegraph keys; enthusiasts such as members of The CW Operators' Club routinely send and receive Morse code at speeds up to 60 wpm. Twenty words per minute (20 wpm) represents the rough upper limit for Morse operators attempting to write down Morse code received by ear using paper and pencil. Many skilled Morse code operators can receive Morse code by ear mentally without writing down the information at speeds up to 70 wpm. To write down the Morse code information manually at speeds higher than 20 wpm it is usual for the operators to use a typewriter or computer keyboard to enable higher speed copying.\n\nThe fastest Morse code operator was Theodore Roosevelt McElroy copying at 75.6 wpm using a typewriter at the 1939 world championship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "246891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246891", "title": "Y chromosome", "text": "Y chromosome\n\nThe Y chromosome is one of two sex chromosomes (allosomes) in mammals, including humans, and many other animals. The other is the X chromosome. Y is the sex-determining chromosome in many species, since it is the presence or absence of Y that determines the male or female sex of offspring produced in sexual reproduction. In mammals, the Y chromosome contains the gene SRY, which triggers testis development. The DNA in the human Y chromosome is composed of about 59 million base pairs. The Y chromosome is passed only from father to son. With a 30% difference between humans and chimpanzees, the Y chromosome is one of the fastest-evolving parts of the human genome. To date, over 200 Y-linked genes have been identified. All Y-linked genes are expressed and (apart from duplicated genes) hemizygous (present on only one chromosome) except in the cases of aneuploidy such as XYY syndrome or XXYY syndrome. \n\nThe Y chromosome was identified as a sex-determining chromosome by Nettie Stevens at Bryn Mawr College in 1905 during a study of the mealworm \"Tenebrio molitor\". Edmund Beecher Wilson independently discovered the same mechanisms the same year. Stevens proposed that chromosomes always existed in pairs and that the Y chromosome was the pair of the X chromosome discovered in 1890 by Hermann Henking. She realized that the previous idea of Clarence Erwin McClung, that the X chromosome determines sex, was wrong and that sex determination is, in fact, due to the presence or absence of the Y chromosome. Stevens named the chromosome \"Y\" simply to follow on from Henking's \"X\" alphabetically.\n\nThe idea that the Y chromosome was named after its similarity in appearance to the letter \"Y\" is mistaken. All chromosomes normally appear as an amorphous blob under the microscope and only take on a well-defined shape during mitosis. This shape is vaguely X-shaped for all chromosomes. It is entirely coincidental that the Y chromosome, during mitosis, has two very short branches which can look merged under the microscope and appear as the descender of a Y-shape.\n\nMost mammals have only one pair of sex chromosomes in each cell. Males have one Y chromosome and one X chromosome, while females have two X chromosomes. In mammals, the Y chromosome contains a gene, SRY, which triggers embryonic development as a male. The Y chromosomes of humans and other mammals also contain other genes needed for normal sperm production.\n\nThere are exceptions, however. For example, the platypus relies on an XY sex-determination system based on five pairs of chromosomes. Platypus sex chromosomes have strong sequence similarity with the avian Z chromosome, (indicating close homology), and the SRY gene so central to sex-determination in most other mammals is apparently not involved in platypus sex-determination. Among humans, some men have two Xs and a Y (\"XXY\", see Klinefelter syndrome), or one X and two Ys (see XYY syndrome), and some women have three Xs or a single X instead of a double X (\"X0\", see Turner syndrome). There are other exceptions in which SRY is damaged (leading to an XY female), or copied to the X (leading to an XX male). \n\nMany ectothermic vertebrates have no sex chromosomes. If they have different sexes, sex is determined environmentally rather than genetically. For some of them, especially reptiles, sex depends on the incubation temperature; others are hermaphroditic (meaning they contain both male and female gametes in the same individual).\n\nThe X and Y chromosomes are thought to have evolved from a pair of identical chromosomes, termed autosomes, when an ancestral animal developed an allelic variation, a so-called \"sex locus\" – simply possessing this allele caused the organism to be male. The chromosome with this allele became the Y chromosome, while the other member of the pair became the X chromosome. Over time, genes that were beneficial for males and harmful to (or had no effect on) females either developed on the Y chromosome or were acquired through the process of translocation.\n\nUntil recently, the X and Y chromosomes were thought to have diverged around 300 million years ago. However, research published in 2010, and particularly research published in 2008 documenting the sequencing of the platypus genome, has suggested that the XY sex-determination system would not have been present more than 166 million years ago, at the split of the monotremes from other mammals. This re-estimation of the age of the therian XY system is based on the finding that sequences that are on the X chromosomes of marsupials and eutherian mammals are present on the autosomes of platypus and birds. The older estimate was based on erroneous reports that the platypus X chromosomes contained these sequences.\n\nRecombination between the X and Y chromosomes proved harmful—it resulted in males without necessary genes formerly found on the Y chromosome, and females with unnecessary or even harmful genes previously only found on the Y chromosome. As a result, genes beneficial to males accumulated near the sex-determining genes, and recombination in this region was suppressed in order to preserve this male specific region. Over time, the Y chromosome changed in such a way as to inhibit the areas around the sex determining genes from recombining at all with the X chromosome. As a result of this process, 95% of the human Y chromosome is unable to recombine. Only the tips of the Y and X chromosomes recombine. The tips of the Y chromosome that could recombine with the X chromosome are referred to as the pseudoautosomal region. The rest of the Y chromosome is passed on to the next generation intact, allowing for its use in tracking human evolution.\n\nBy one estimate, the human Y chromosome has lost 1,393 of its 1,438 original genes over the course of its existence, and linear extrapolation of this 1,393-gene loss over 300 million years gives a rate of genetic loss of 4.6 genes per million years. Continued loss of genes at the rate of 4.6 genes per million years would result in a Y chromosome with no functional genes – that is the Y chromosome would lose complete function – within the next 10 million years, or half that time with the current age estimate of 160 million years. Comparative genomic analysis reveals that many mammalian species are experiencing a similar loss of function in their heterozygous sex chromosome. Degeneration may simply be the fate of all non-recombining sex chromosomes, due to three common evolutionary forces: high mutation rate, inefficient selection, and genetic drift.\n\nHowever, comparisons of the human and chimpanzee Y chromosomes (first published in 2005) show that the human Y chromosome has not lost any genes since the divergence of humans and chimpanzees between 6–7 million years ago, and a scientific report in 2012 stated that only one gene had been lost since humans diverged from the rhesus macaque 25 million years ago. These facts provide direct evidence that the linear extrapolation model is flawed and suggest that the current human Y chromosome is either no longer shrinking or is shrinking at a much slower rate than the 4.6 genes per million years estimated by the linear extrapolation model.\n\nThe human Y chromosome is particularly exposed to high mutation rates due to the environment in which it is housed. The Y chromosome is passed exclusively through sperm, which undergo multiple cell divisions during gametogenesis. Each cellular division provides further opportunity to accumulate base pair mutations. Additionally, sperm are stored in the highly oxidative environment of the testis, which encourages further mutation. These two conditions combined put the Y chromosome at a greater risk of mutation than the rest of the genome. The increased mutation risk for the Y chromosome is reported by Graves as a factor 4.8. However, her original reference obtains this number for the relative mutation rates in male and female germ lines for the lineage leading to humans.\n\nWithout the ability to recombine during meiosis, the Y chromosome is unable to expose individual alleles to natural selection. Deleterious alleles are allowed to \"hitchhike\" with beneficial neighbors, thus propagating maladapted alleles in to the next generation. Conversely, advantageous alleles may be selected against if they are surrounded by harmful alleles (background selection). Due to this inability to sort through its gene content, the Y chromosome is particularly prone to the accumulation of \"junk\" DNA. Massive accumulations of retrotransposable elements are scattered throughout the Y. The random insertion of DNA segments often disrupts encoded gene sequences and renders them nonfunctional. However, the Y chromosome has no way of weeding out these \"jumping genes\". Without the ability to isolate alleles, selection cannot effectively act upon them.\n\nA clear, quantitative indication of this inefficiency is the entropy rate of the Y chromosome. Whereas all other chromosomes in the human genome have entropy rates of 1.5–1.9 bits per nucleotide (compared to the theoretical maximum of exactly 2 for no redundancy), the Y chromosome's entropy rate is only 0.84. This means the Y chromosome has a much lower information content relative to its overall length; it is more redundant.\n\nEven if a well adapted Y chromosome manages to maintain genetic activity by avoiding mutation accumulation, there is no guarantee it will be passed down to the next generation. The population size of the Y chromosome is inherently limited to 1/4 that of autosomes: diploid organisms contain two copies of autosomal chromosomes while only half the population contains 1 Y chromosome. Thus, genetic drift is an exceptionally strong force acting upon the Y chromosome. Through sheer random assortment, an adult male may never pass on his Y chromosome if he only has female offspring. Thus, although a male may have a well adapted Y chromosome free of excessive mutation, it may never make it in to the next gene pool. The repeat random loss of well-adapted Y chromosomes, coupled with the tendency of the Y chromosome to evolve to have more deleterious mutations rather than less for reasons described above, contributes to the species-wide degeneration of Y chromosomes through Muller's ratchet.\n\nAs it has been already mentioned, the Y chromosome is unable to recombine during meiosis like the other human chromosomes; however, in 2003, researchers from MIT discovered a process which may slow down the process of degradation.\nThey found that human Y chromosome is able to \"recombine\" with itself, using palindrome base pair sequences. Such a \"recombination\" is called gene conversion.\n\nIn the case of the Y chromosomes, the palindromes are not noncoding DNA; these strings of bases contain functioning genes important for male fertility. Most of the sequence pairs are greater than 99.97% identical. The extensive use of gene conversion may play a role in the ability of the Y chromosome to edit out genetic mistakes and maintain the integrity of the relatively few genes it carries. In other words, since the Y chromosome is single, it has duplicates of its genes on itself instead of having a second, homologous, chromosome. When errors occur, it can use other parts of itself as a template to correct them.\n\nFindings were confirmed by comparing similar regions of the Y chromosome in humans to the Y chromosomes of chimpanzees, bonobos and gorillas. The comparison demonstrated that the same phenomenon of gene conversion appeared to be at work more than 5 million years ago, when humans and the non-human primates diverged from each other.\n\nIn the terminal stages of the degeneration of the Y chromosome, other chromosomes increasingly take over genes and functions formerly associated with it. Finally, the Y chromosome disappears entirely, and a new sex-determining system arises. Several species of rodent in the sister families Muridae and Cricetidae have reached these stages, in the following ways:\nOutside of the rodents, the black muntjac, \"Muntiacus crinifrons\", evolved new X and Y chromosomes through fusions of the ancestral sex chromosomes and autosomes.\n\nFisher's principle outlines why almost all species using sexual reproduction have a sex ratio of 1:1. W. D. Hamilton gave the following basic explanation in his 1967 paper on \"Extraordinary sex ratios\", given the condition that males and females cost equal amounts to produce:\n\nMany groups of organisms in addition to mammals have Y chromosomes, but these Y chromosomes do not share common ancestry with mammalian Y chromosomes. Such groups include \"Drosophila\", some other insects, some fish, some reptiles, and some plants. In \"Drosophila melanogaster\", the Y chromosome does not trigger male development. Instead, sex is determined by the number of X chromosomes. The \"D. melanogaster\" Y chromosome does contain genes necessary for male fertility. So XXY \"D. melanogaster\" are female, and \"D. melanogaster\" with a single X (X0), are male but sterile. There are some species of Drosophila in which X0 males are both viable and fertile.\n\nOther organisms have mirror image sex chromosomes: where the homogeneous sex is the male, said to have two Z chromosomes, and the female is the heterogeneous sex, and said to have a Z chromosome and a W chromosome. For example, female birds, snakes, and butterflies have ZW sex chromosomes, and males have ZZ sex chromosomes.\n\nThere are some species, such as the Japanese rice fish, the XY system is still developing and cross over between the X and Y is still possible. Because the male specific region is very small and contains no essential genes, it is even possible to artificially induce XX males and YY females to no ill effect.\n\nIn humans, the Y chromosome spans about 58 million base pairs (the building blocks of DNA) and represents approximately 1% of the total DNA in a male cell. The human Y chromosome contains over 200 genes, at least 72 of which code for proteins. Traits that are inherited via the Y chromosome are called Y-linked, or holandric traits.\n\nSome cells, especially in older men and smokers, lack a Y chromosome. It has been found that men with a higher percentage of hematopoietic stem cells in blood lacking the Y chromosome (and perhaps a higher percentage of other cells lacking it) have a higher risk of certain cancers and have a shorter life expectancy. Men with \"loss of Y\" (which was defined as no Y in at least 18% of their hematopoietic cells) have been found to die 5.5 years earlier on average than others. This has been interpreted as a sign that the Y chromosome plays a role going beyond sex determination and reproduction (although the loss of Y may be an effect rather than a cause). And yet women, who have no Y chromosome, have lower rates of cancer. Male smokers have between 1.5 and 2 times the risk of non-respiratory cancers as female smokers.\n\nThe human Y chromosome is normally unable to recombine with the X chromosome, except for small pieces of pseudoautosomal regions at the telomeres (which comprise about 5% of the chromosome's length). These regions are relics of ancient homology between the X and Y chromosomes. The bulk of the Y chromosome, which does not recombine, is called the \"NRY\", or non-recombining region of the Y chromosome. The single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in this region are used to trace direct paternal ancestral lines. \n\nThe following are some of the gene count estimates of human Y chromosome. Because researchers use different approaches to genome annotation their predictions of the number of genes on each chromosome varies (for technical details, see gene prediction). Among various projects, the collaborative consensus coding sequence project (CCDS) takes an extremely conservative strategy. So CCDS's gene number prediction represents a lower bound on the total number of human protein-coding genes.\n\nIn general, the human Y chromosome is extremely gene poor—it is one of the largest gene deserts in the human genome. Disregarding pseudoautosomal genes, genes encoded on the human Y chromosome include:\n\n\nDiseases linked to the Y chromosome typically involve an aneuploidy, an atypical number of chromosomes. \n\nY chromosome microdeletion (YCM) is a family of genetic disorders caused by missing genes in the Y chromosome. Many affected men exhibit no symptoms and lead normal lives. However, YCM is also known to be present in a significant number of men with reduced fertility or reduced sperm count.\n\nThis results in the person presenting a female phenotype (i.e., is born with female-like genitalia) even though that person possesses an XY karyotype. The lack of the second X results in infertility. In other words, viewed from the opposite direction, the person goes through defeminization but fails to complete masculinization.\n\nThe cause can be seen as an incomplete Y chromosome: the usual karyotype in these cases is 45X, plus a fragment of Y. This usually results in defective testicular development, such that the infant may or may not have fully formed male genitalia internally or externally. The full range of ambiguity of structure may occur, especially if mosaicism is present. When the Y fragment is minimal and nonfunctional, the child is usually a girl with the features of Turner syndrome or mixed gonadal dysgenesis.\n\nKlinefelter syndrome (47, XXY) is not an aneuploidy of the Y chromosome, but a condition of having an extra X chromosome, which usually results in defective postnatal testicular function. The mechanism is not fully understood; it does not seem to be due to direct interference by the extra X with expression of Y genes.\n\n47, XYY syndrome (simply known as XYY syndrome) is caused by the presence of a single extra copy of the Y chromosome in each of a male's cells. 47, XYY males have one X chromosome and two Y chromosomes, for a total of 47 chromosomes per cell. Researchers have found that an extra copy of the Y chromosome is associated with increased stature and an increased incidence of learning problems in some boys and men, but the effects are variable, often minimal, and the vast majority do not know their karyotype.\n\nIn 1965 and 1966 Patricia Jacobs and colleagues published a chromosome survey of 315 male patients at\nScotland's only special security hospital for the developmentally disabled,\nfinding a higher than expected number of patients to have an extra Y chromosome. The authors of this study wondered \"whether an extra Y chromosome predisposes its carriers to unusually aggressive behaviour\", and this conjecture \"framed the next fifteen years of research on the human Y chromosome\".\n\nThrough studies over the next decade, this conjecture was shown to be incorrect: the elevated crime rate of XYY males is due to lower median intelligence and not increased aggression, and increased height was the only characteristic that could be reliably associated with XYY males. The \"criminal karyotype\" concept is therefore inaccurate.\n\nThe following Y-chromosome-linked diseases are rare, but notable because of their elucidating of the nature of the Y chromosome.\n\nGreater degrees of Y chromosome polysomy (having more than one extra copy of the Y chromosome in every cell, e.g., XYYY) are rare. The extra genetic material in these cases can lead to skeletal abnormalities, decreased IQ, and delayed development, but the severity features of these conditions are variable.\n\nXX male syndrome occurs when there has been a recombination in the formation of the male gametes, causing the SRY portion of the Y chromosome to move to the X chromosome. When such an X chromosome contributes to the child, the development will lead to a male, because of the SRY gene.\n\nIn human genetic genealogy (the application of genetics to traditional genealogy), use of the information contained in the Y chromosome is of particular interest because, unlike other chromosomes, the Y chromosome is passed exclusively from father to son, on the patrilineal line. Mitochondrial DNA, maternally inherited to both sons and daughters, is used in an analogous way to trace the matrilineal line.\n\nResearch is currently investigating whether male-pattern neural development is a direct consequence of Y-chromosome-related gene expression or an indirect result of Y-chromosome-related androgenic hormone production.\n\nThe presence of male chromosomes in fetal cells in the blood circulation of women was discovered in 1974.\n\nIn 1996, it was found that male fetal progenitor cells could persist postpartum in the maternal blood stream for as long as 27 years.\n\nA 2004 study at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, investigated the origin of male chromosomes found in the peripheral blood of women who had not had male progeny. A total of 120 subjects (women who had never had sons) were investigated, and it was found that 21% of them had male DNA. The subjects were categorised into four groups based on their case histories:\n\nThe study noted that 10% of the women had never been pregnant before, raising the question of where the Y chromosomes in their blood could have come from. The study suggests that possible reasons for occurrence of male chromosome microchimerism could be one of the following:\n\nA 2012 study at the same institute has detected cells with the Y chromosome in multiple areas of the brains of deceased women.\n\n\n"}
