{"id": "30885117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30885117", "title": "2010 in politics", "text": "2010 in politics\n\nThese are some of the notable events relating to politics in 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17842549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17842549", "title": "Act of Parliament (UK)", "text": "Act of Parliament (UK)\n\nIn the United Kingdom an Act of Parliament is primary legislation passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom. As a result of the Glorious Revolution and the assertion of parliamentary sovereignty, any such Act is in theory supreme law that cannot be overturned by any body other than Parliament, although it has been recognised though the United Kingdom's membership of the European Union that Acts or parts of Acts which conflict with EU law can be disapplied.\n\nAn Act of Parliament can be enforced in all four of the UK constituent countries (England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland); however as a result of devolution the majority of Acts that are now passed by Parliament apply either to England and Wales only, or England only; whilst generally Acts only relating to constitutional and reserved matters now apply to the whole of the United Kingdom.\n\nA draft piece of legislation is called a Bill; when this is passed by Parliament and given Royal Assent, it becomes an Act and part of statute law.\n\nActs of Parliament are classified as either \"Public General Acts\" or \"Local and Personal Acts\" (also known as \"Private Acts\"). Bills are also classified as \"public\", \"private\", or \"hybrid\".\n\nPublic General Acts form the largest category of legislation, in principle affecting the public general law applying to everyone across the entire United Kingdom (or at least to one or more of its constituent countries of England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, or Wales). Most Public General Acts proceed through Parliament as a public bill; occasionally, however, a bill is treated as hybrid.\n\nPrivate Acts are either local or personal in their effect, applying to a specifically named locality or legal person in a manner different from all others. Private bills are \"usually promoted by organisations, like local authorities or private companies, to give themselves powers beyond, or in conflict with, the general law. Private bills only change the law as it applies to specific individuals or organisations, rather than the general public. Groups or individuals potentially affected by these changes can petition Parliament against the proposed bill and present their objections to committees of MPs and Lords.\" They include acts to confer powers on certain local authorities, a recent example being the Canterbury City Council Bill, which makes provisions relating to street trading and consumer protection in the city. Private bills can also affect certain companies: the Northern Bank Bill allowed the statutory right of Northern Bank to issue bank notes to be transferred to Danske Bank which had acquired it. Other private bills may affect particular companies established by Act of Parliament such as TSB Bank and Transas.\n\nPersonal Acts are a sub-category of private Acts, which confer specific rights or duties on a named individual or individuals, for example allowing two persons to marry even though they are within a \"prohibited degree of consanguinity or affinity\" such as stepfather and stepdaughter.\n\nPrivate bills, common in the 19th century, are now rare, as new planning legislation introduced in the 1960s removed the need for many of them; only a few, if any, are passed each year.\n\nParliamentary authorities maintain a list of all private bills before parliament.\n\nHybrid bills combine elements of both public and private bill. While they propose to make changes to the general law, they also contain provisions applying to specific individuals or bodies. Recent examples are the Crossrail Bill, a hybrid bill to build a railway across London from west to east, and the 1976 Aircraft and Shipbuilding Industries Bill, which was a particularly controversial bill that was ruled to be a hybrid bill, forcing the government to withdraw some of its provisions to allow its passage as a public bill. Once passed, hybrid bills are printed as part of the Public General Acts.\n\nParliamentary authorities maintain a list of all hybrid bills before parliament.\n\nIt is important not to confuse private bills with private members' bills, which are public bills intended to effect a general change in the law. The only difference from other public bills is that they are brought forward by a private member (a backbencher) rather than by the government. Twenty private members' bills per session are allowed to be introduced, with the sponsoring private members selected by a ballot of the whole house, and additional bills may be introduced under the Ten Minute Rule.\n\nFinancial bills raise revenue and authorise how money is spent. The best-known such bills are the (normally annual) Finance Bills introduced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Budget. This usually encompasses all the changes to be made to tax law for the year. Its formal description is \"a Bill to grant certain duties, to alter other duties, and to amend the law relating to the National Debt and the Public Revenue, and to make further provision in connection with finance\". Consolidated Fund and Appropriation Bills authorise government spending.\n\nThis type of bill is designed to keep the business of government and public affairs up to date. These bills may not be substantial or controversial in party political terms. Two sub-classes of the housekeeping bill are \"consolidation bills\", which set out existing law in a clearer and more up-to-date form without changing its substance; and the tax law rewrite bills, which do the same for tax law.\n\nAn Act of Parliament will often confer power on the Queen in Council, a Minister, or another public body to create delegated legislation, usually by means of a Statutory Instrument.\n\nBills may start their passage in either the House of Commons or House of Lords, although bills which are mainly or entirely financial will start in the Commons. Each bill passes through the following stages:\n\nPre-legislative Scrutiny: Joint committee of both houses review the bill and vote on amendments that government can accept or reject. Reports are influential in later stages as rejected committee recommendations are revived to be voted on.\n\nFirst Reading: No vote occurs. Bill is presented, printed, and in private members' bills, a Second Reading date is set.\n\nSecond Reading: A debate on the general principles of the bill is followed by a vote.\n\nCommittee Stage: A committee considers each clause of the bill, and may make amendments.\n\nReport Stage: An opportunity to amend the bill. The House consider clauses to which amendments have been tabled.\n\nThird Reading: A debate on final text as amended.\n\nPassage: The bill is then sent to the other House which may amend it.\n\nCommittee Stage: \"Same procedures\"\n\nReport Stage: \"Same procedures\"\n\nPassage: The bill is then returned to the original House.\n\nPre-legislative Scrutiny to consider all amendments.\n\nRoyal Assent for the Bill is then requested; if this is granted, the Bill becomes an Act.\n\nAlthough not strictly part of the legislative process, a period of consultation will take place before a bill is drafted. Within government, the Treasury and other departments with an interest will be consulted along with the devolved administrations in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Outside government, interested parties such as trade unions, industry bodies and pressure groups will be asked for their views on any proposals. The Cabinet Office Code of Practice specifies a minimum consultation period of twelve weeks. Consultation documents are widely circulated (see for example the Home Office consultation on extreme pornography and the Scottish Government's consultation on food policy).\n\nThe character of the consultation is shaped by the government's determination to press forward with a particular set of proposals. A government may publish a green paper outlining various legislative options or a white paper, which is a clear statement of intent. It is increasingly common for a small number of Government bills to be published in draft before they are presented in Parliament. These bills are then considered either by the relevant select committee of the House of Commons or by an ad hoc joint committee of both Houses. This provides an opportunity for the committee to express a view on the bill and propose amendments before it is introduced. Draft bills allow more lengthy scrutiny of potential legislation and have been seen as a response to time pressures which may result in the use of \"programme orders\" to impose a strict timetable on the passage of bills and what is known as 'drafting on the hoof', where the government introduces amendments to its own bills. With increased time for scrutiny backed up with considered evidence, draft bills may present governments with difficulty in getting their way.\n\nThe sponsoring government department will then write to the relevant policy committee of the Cabinet. The proposals are only discussed at a meeting if disagreements arise. Even an uncontroversial proposal may face administrative hurdles. A potential change in the law may have to wait for a more extensive bill in that policy area to be brought forward before it is worthwhile devoting parliamentary time to it. The proposal will then be bundled together with more substantive measures in the same Bill. The Ministerial Committee on the Legislative Programme (LP), including the leaders and government chief whips in both houses, is responsible for the timetable of legislation. This committee decides which house a bill will start in, recommends to the Cabinet which proposals will be in the Queen's Speech, which will be published in draft and how much parliamentary time will be required.\n\nFollowing a process of consultation, the sponsoring department will send drafting instructions to parliamentary counsel, expert lawyers working for the government responsible for writing legislation. These instructions will describe what the bill should do but not the detail of how this is achieved. The Parliamentary counsel must draft the legislation clearly to minimise the possibility of legal challenge and to fit the bill in with existing UK, European Union and delegated legislation. A finished bill must be approved or scrutinised by the sponsoring department and minister, parliamentary counsel and LP.\n\nThe final stage is the submission of the bill to the authorities of the House in which it is to start its legislative journey. In the Commons, this is the Clerk of Legislation and the Public Bill Office in the Lords. They will check the following:\n\n\nAfter this process, the bill is then ready for introduction.\n\nThe first reading is a formality and no debate or vote occurs. A notice that a bill is being presented for its first reading appears on the Order Paper for that day. The \"European Union (Amendment) Bill\" appeared on the Order Paper for 17 December 2007 as follows:\n\nAs we can see in this video footage of the first reading, the MP is called by the Speaker at the commencement of public business and brings a 'dummy bill', a sheet of paper with the short and long titles and the names of up to twelve supporters, to the Clerk of the House at the Table. The Clerk reads out the short title and the Speaker says \"Second reading what day?\" For all government bills, the response is almost always \"tomorrow\" (or the next sitting day). A date is also set for private members bills; the decision for scheduling such bills is crucial as they are not given 'government time' to be debated. The bill is recorded in the proceedings as having been read for a first time, having been ordered to be printed and to be read a second time on a particular date. In the case of a Government Bill, Explanatory Notes, which try to explain the effect of the Bill in more simple language, are also usually ordered to be printed. Again, in the case of the \"European Union (Amendment) Bill\" this appeared in Hansard as follows:\n\nA bill introduced in this way is known as a \"presentation bill\". Bills can also be introduced in the Commons by being brought in from the Lords, being \"brought in by resolution\" (like the Finance Bill) or when an MP gets leave to bring in a \"ten-minute rule bill\".\n\nA Government Bill can be introduced first into either House. Bills which begin in the Lords have '[Lords]' suffixed to its title when in the Lords and '[HL]' when in the Commons. Bills which deal primarily with taxation or public expenditure begin their passage in the Commons since the financial privileges of that House mean that it has primacy in these matters (see Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949). Conversely, bills relating to the judicial system, Law Commission bills and consolidation bills begin their passage in the House of Lords which by convention has primacy in these matters.\n\nIn the second reading, which in theory is supposed to occur two weekends after the first reading, a debate on the general principles of the bill is followed by a vote. This is the main opportunity to debate the principle of the bill rather than individual clauses. A division at this stage, therefore, represents a direct challenge to the principle of the bill. If the bill is read a second time, it proceeds to the committee stage.\n\nNormally, the Second Reading of a Government bill is approved. A defeat for a Government bill on this Reading usually signifies a major loss. The last time this happened was at the second reading of the Shops Bill for the government of Margaret Thatcher in 1986. The bill, which liberalised controls on Sunday trading, was defeated in the Commons by 14 votes. \n\nSecond reading debates on government bills usually take a day, in practice about six hours. Smaller and less controversial bills will receive less time and wholly uncontroversial measures will receive a second reading 'on the nod' with no debate whatsoever. The National Insurance Contributions bill appeared in the Order Papers as follows:\n\nAs we can see from video footage of the debate for this bill, second readings of government bills take place on a motion moved (for Government bills) by a minister in the department responsible for the legislation \"that the bill now be read a second time\". The minister outlines the overall purpose of the Bill and highlights particular parts of the Bill they consider most important. The official Opposition spokesperson responds with his or her views on the Bill. The debate continues with other Opposition parties and backbench MPs giving their opinions on the principles of the Bill. The minister will eventually bring the debate to a conclusion by saying, of the bill, \"I commend it to the House\". The Speaker will then \"put the question\" by saying, for example, \"The Question is, that the Bill be now read a second time\". The Speaker then invites supporters of the bill to say \"aye\" and then opponents say \"no\": \"All members of that opinion say 'aye' [supporters say 'aye'], contrary 'no' [opponents say 'no']. In what is known as \"collecting the voices\" the Speaker makes a judgement as to the loudest cry. A clear majority, either way, will prompt the response \"I think the Ayes/Noes have it\" (this can be forced to a division by continued cries either way). If the result is at all in doubt a division will be called and the Speaker will say \"Division. Clear the Lobby\". This refers not to the division lobbies used for voting but the Members' Lobby beyond the chamber which is cleared by the doorkeepers. At this point, division bells will ring throughout the palace and also in nearby flats, pubs and restaurants whose owners pay to be connected to the system. This allows MPs who may not be in the debate to come and vote on the issue in question.\n\nAfter two minutes, the Speaker will \"put the Question again\" to assess whether there is still disagreement. He will then name the tellers, whose job it is to count the votes. These will usually be government and opposition whips. In the example we have looked at: \"Tellers for the Ayes Mr. Dave Watts and Mr. Steve McCabe; tellers for the Noes Mr. Nick Hurd and Mr. John Baron\". If no teller has come forward (or only one) the Speaker declares the result for the other side.\n\nOne teller from each side goes to the end of each division lobby and they count MPs as they emerge. Whips are also at the other end of the lobby to try to ensure that their MPs vote with the party line. The names are taken by division clerks and are published in Hansard the next day (see example from Hansard or with greater clarity from the Public Whip). Eight minutes after first calling the division, the Speaker says \"lock the doors\"; the doorkeepers lock the doors leading into the lobbies and no more MPs can get in to vote. When every member has passed the division clerks and tellers, a \"division slip\" is produced by the Clerks at the Table and is given to one of the tellers on the winning side. The tellers then form up at the Table in front of the Mace facing the Speaker, and the teller with the slip reads the result to the House, for example: \"The Ayes to the right, 291. The Noes to the left, 161\". The Clerk then takes the slip to the Speaker, who repeats the result and adds \"So the Ayes have it, the Ayes have it. Unlock\". The doorkeepers then unlock the doors to the division lobbies. A division vote concerning a National Insurance Contributions Bill is illustrated from Hansard as follows:\n\nDivisions on second readings can be on a straight opposition or a vote on a 'reasoned amendment', detailing the reasons the bill's opponents do not want it read a second time, which may be selected by the Speaker. Bills defeated at a second reading cannot progress further or be reintroduced with exactly the same wording in the same session.\n\nIn the case of Government Bills, the House normally passes forthwith (i.e. without debate but almost always with a vote) a Programme Order in the form of a \"programme motion\", setting out the timetable for the committee and remaining stages of the Bill. This takes place immediately after the second reading. For example:\n\nThe House may also pass a separate \"money resolution\", authorising any expenditure arising from the Bill; and/or a \"ways and means resolution\", authorising any new taxes or charges the Bill creates. Bills are not programmed in the House of Lords.\n\nThis usually takes place in a standing committee in the Commons and on the Floor of the House in the Lords. In the United Kingdom, the House of Commons utilises the following committees on bills:\n\nThe committee considers each clause of the bill and may make amendments to it. Significant amendments may be made at committee stage. In some cases, whole groups of clauses are inserted or removed. However, almost all the amendments which are agreed to in committee will have been tabled by the Government to correct deficiencies in the bill, to enact changes to policy made since the bill was introduced (or, in some cases, to import material which was not ready when the bill was presented), or to reflect concessions made as a result of earlier debate.\n\nThe report state, known formally as \"consideration\", takes place on the Floor of the House, and is a further opportunity to amend the bill. Unlike committee stage, the House need not consider every clause of the bill, only those to which amendments have been tabled.\n\nIn the third reading, a debate on the final text of the bill, as amended. In the Lords, further amendments may be made on third reading, in the Commons, it is usually a short debate followed by a single vote; amendments are not permitted.\n\nThe bill is then sent to the other House (to the Lords, if it originated in the Commons; to the Commons if it is a Lords bill), which may amend it. The Commons may reject a bill from the Lords outright; the Lords may amend a bill from the Commons but, if they reject it, the Commons may force it through without the Lords' consent in the following Session of Parliament, as is detailed below. Furthermore, the Lords can neither initiate nor amend money bills, bills dealing exclusively with public expenditure or the raising of revenue. If the other House amends the bill, the bill and amendments are sent back for a further stage.\n\nThere is a constitutional convention that the House of Lords should not spend more than 60 days over bills sent to them by the Commons.\n\nThe Parliament Acts: Under the Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949, which do not apply for bills seeking to extend Parliament's length to more than five years, if the Lords reject a bill originated in the House of Commons, then the Commons may pass that bill again in the next session. The bill is then submitted for Royal Assent even though the Lords did not pass it. Also, if the Lords do not approve of a money bill within thirty days of passage in the Commons, the bill is submitted for Royal Assent nevertheless.\n\nThe House in which the bill originated considers the amendments made in the other House. It may agree to them, amend them, propose other amendments in lieu or reject them. A bill may pass backwards and forwards several times at this stage, as each House amends or rejects changes proposed by the other. If each House insists on disagreeing with the other, the bill is lost under the 'double insistence' rule, unless avoiding action is taken.\n\nEach Act commences with one of the following:\n\nStandard\n\nFor money bills\n\nUnder the Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949:\n\nAs a result of devolution, the National Assembly for Wales, the Northern Ireland Assembly, and the Scottish Parliament are also able to create primary legislation for their respective devolved institutions. These devolved legislatures are able to create legislation regarding all but reserved and excepted matters. However, Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom remain supreme and can overrule the devolved legislatures. By convention, the Parliament of the United Kingdom does not normally do this without a legislative consent motion.\n\nIn the UK there is still a presumption that Parliament is sovereign, however it is recognised that \"Acts of Parliament are no longer sovereign but can be overruled if they are incompatible with European Laws\". Within that constraint Acts of Parliament are generally without limit. European Law can overturn such Acts because the European Communities Act 1972 agreed that UK law should not wish to conflict with European Law. However, if Parliament decided to, it could withdraw from the European Union and withdraw from all European law. Parliament has also devolved significant powers to the Scottish Parliament, the Northern Ireland Assembly and the National Assembly for Wales, it is free to overrule or even abolish those institutions, although this would be unlikely in practice.\n\nBritish law is also made through Statutory Instruments (SIs). These are laws which are made in the name of a government minister, exercising legislative powers delegated to him or her by Act of Parliament (known as the \"parent Act\" or \"enabling Act\"). Some of these must be approved by Parliament before they can become law, others need only be laid before Parliament a certain number of days (usually 40) before coming into force. They are used because they are much faster and simpler to implement than a full Act of Parliament, and are more easily amended to reflect changing circumstances. Provided they fall within the power delegated by the enabling Act, they have the same force as an Act of Parliament, and much of the UK's law is made in this way. There are thousands of SIs each year, compared with around 50 Acts. Statutory Instruments are also used to bring Acts into force. Most Acts have sections that come into effect upon Royal Assent, or at a set date thereafter. However, other sections are brought into force using an SI which is titled [\"Act Name\"] (Commencement No. #) Order. Whilst most legislation has had a maximum of half a dozen Commencement Orders, this is not a strict limit as some Acts have had over 10.\n\nNothing can bind Parliament as a successive parliament can repeal the legislation.\n\nInternational treaties are not effective in domestic UK law until enforced by an Act of Parliament (e.g. The European Communities Act, which brought the UK into the European Union, the Single European Act which allowed for the creation of the single European internal market or the Outer Space Act which deals with international treaties on Space).\n\nAt the end of a medieval Parliament of England a collection of Acts of a public character was made in the form of a Statute Roll and given the title of the King’s regnal year; each particular Act forming a section, or a chapter, of the complete Statute, so that, e.g. the Vagabonds Act 1383 became VII Ric. II, c.5. Enrolment of Public Acts on manuscript parchment \"Parliament Rolls\" continued until 1850. The longest Act of Parliament in the form of a scroll is an Act regarding taxation passed in 1821. It is nearly a quarter of a mile (348 m) long, and used to take two men a whole day to rewind. Until 1850, a paper draft was brought into the House in which the Bill started; after the committee stage there the Bill was inscribed on a parchment roll and this parchment was then passed to the other House which could introduce amendments. The original Bill was never re-written and knives were used to scrape away the script from the top surface of the rolls before the new text was added. Since 1850 two copies of each Act were printed on vellum, one for preservation in the House of Lords and the other for transmission to the Public Record Office.\n\nSince 1483 annual volumes of Public Acts (\"Statute Books\") have been printed. In these volumes not only Public Acts but also some Private Acts and various \"Local and Personal Acts declared Public\" have been included.\n\nAll UK Acts of Parliament since 1497 are kept in the House of Lords Record Office, including the oldest Act: The \"Taking of Apprentices for Worsteads in the County of Norfolk\" Act 1497, a reference to the wool worsted manufacture at Worstead in Norfolk, England.\n\nActs passed before 1 January 1963 are cited by session and chapter. The session of parliament in which the Act was passed is referred to by the regnal year or years of the reigning Monarch and his name, which is usually abbreviated. So, for example, the Treason Act 1945 may be cited:\n\nAll Acts passed on or after 1 January 1963 are cited by calendar year and chapter.\n\nAll recent Acts have a short title, or citation (e.g. Local Government Act 2003, National Health Service Act 1974).\n\nMany Acts of a private, personal or local character often have not ever been printed, surviving only in a single manuscript copy in the Victoria Tower.\n\nThe UK's Ministry of Justice publishes most Acts of Parliament in an on-line statute law database. It is the official revised edition of the primary legislation of the United Kingdom. The database shows Acts as amended by subsequent legislation and is the statute book of UK legislation.\n\nImportant acts in UK constitutional history include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19622555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19622555", "title": "Alberta Solar Decathlon Project", "text": "Alberta Solar Decathlon Project\n\nThe Alberta Solar Decathlon Project was an entry into the 2009 US DOE Solar Decathlon Competition in Washington, DC in October 2009. The team placed 6th out of the 20 teams present after an exciting week of not very great weather for solar power generation.\n\nThe Solar Decathlon is a high-profile, international competition in which twenty selected teams of university and college students from around the globe compete to design, build and operate the most attractive, practical and energy-efficient solar-powered home.\n\nThe event is primarily sponsored by the US Department of Energy and includes 10 individual contests for the students and their homes. It takes place biannually in October on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. The teams' houses and the sponsors' educational exhibits form a solar 'village.' The public, media, industry representatives and invited dignitaries tour the homes and exhibits and learn about solar energy, energy efficiency and home design.\n\nThe Alberta Solar Decathlon team is composed of Calgary's four leading post-secondary schools: the University of Calgary, SAIT Polytechnic, Mount Royal College and the Alberta College of Art + Design.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51097731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51097731", "title": "Alfred Leo Smith", "text": "Alfred Leo Smith\n\nAlfred Leo Smith (November 6, 1919 - November 19, 2014), also known as Al Smith, was a Klamath Nation drug and alcohol counselor and Native American activist from Oregon.\n\nSmith was born on November 6, 1919 in Modoc Point, Oregon. He spent his early childhood on the Williamson River.\n\nAt age seven, Smith was sent to a nearby Catholic boarding school at the insistence of local Indian agents. He was ultimately sent to a mix of catholic schools and Bureau of Indian Affairs schools, as far away as Beaverton, Oregon and Stewart Indian School in Nevada. After leaving Chemawa Indian School, he began to live in Portland, Oregon as an alcoholic panhandler. He was drafted during World War II and was sent to federal prison for drinking on duty. He survived a bout of tuberculosis, and experienced the 1942 death of his sister and 1950 death of his mother. The United States Congress also voted to terminate the Klamath Nation in 1954, striking another blow against Smith.\n\nIn 1957, Smith became sober with the help of an Alcoholics Anonymous program, ultimately celebrating 56 years of sobriety. He also became interested in Native recovery through culturally relevant practices and indigenous spirituality.\n\nSmith began working for the Portland Alcoholism Counseling and Recovery Program, helping alcoholics in a community he knew well. In 1972, the Bureau of Indian Affairs hired Smith to set up a number of tribal treatment programs across the United States. He also worked in the Klamath Basin on drug and alcohol recovery issues, where he was able to reconnect with his heritage and culture.\n\nIn 1972, Al Smith began to work at Sweathouse Lodge, part of the Chicano-Indian Study Center of Oregon founded on the site of Camp Adair. His position as treatment coordinator allowed him to combine AA principles with traditional Native spiritual practices, particularly the daily sweat lodge ceremony.\n\nIn 1982, Smith began working at a nonprofit Drug and Alcohol counseling program in Roseburg, Oregon. After his colleague Galen Black was fired for ingesting peyote, Smith indignantly attended a ceremony of the Native American Church, declaring \"You can't tell me that I can't go to church!\".\n\nSmith was fired for using peyote as part of the ceremony. At the time, intentional possession of peyote was a crime under Oregon law without an affirmative defense for religious use. The counselors filed a claim for unemployment compensation with the state, but the claim was denied because the reason for their dismissal was deemed work-related \"misconduct.\" The Oregon Court of Appeals reversed that ruling, holding that denying them unemployment benefits for their religious use of peyote violated their right to exercise their religion. The Oregon Supreme Court agreed, although it relied not on the fact that peyote use was a crime but on the fact that the state's justification for withholding the benefits—preserving the \"financial integrity\" of the workers' compensation fund—was outweighed by the burden imposed on the employees' exercise of their religion. The state appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, again arguing that denying the unemployment benefits was proper because possession of peyote was a crime.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court let stand the Oregon Supreme Court's judgment against the two employees and returned the case to the Oregon courts to determine whether or not sacramental use of illegal drugs violated Oregon's state drug laws (485 U.S. 660 (1988)). Writing for the majority, Antonin Scalia declared that the free exercise of religion did not protect minority religions from \"neutral, generally applicable laws.\" Scalia believed that \"...[l]eaving accommodation to the political process will place at a relative disadvantage those religious practices that are not widely engaged in, but that unavoidable consequence of democratic government must be preferred to a system in which each conscience is a law unto itself or in which judges weigh the social importance of all laws against the centrality of all religious beliefs.\"\n"}
{"id": "47679367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47679367", "title": "Australian Labor Party split of 1931", "text": "Australian Labor Party split of 1931\n\nThe Australian Labor Party split of 1931 was caused by severe divisions within the Australian Labor Party over their economic response to the Great Depression in Australia. Amidst intense disagreement between economically conservative and radical elements of the party, two senior ministers in the Scullin Labor government, Joseph Lyons and James Fenton, resigned from Cabinet in January 1931. Lyons, Fenton and their supporters would subsequently merge with the conservative opposition Nationalist Party of Australia to form the new United Australia Party, led by Lyons with the last Nationalist leader, John Latham, as his deputy.\n\nIn March 1931, the Labor Party split on the left as well, when Eddie Ward, a supporter of radical anti-austerity Premier of New South Wales Jack Lang, won a by-election, and was refused entry to the Labor caucus, resulting in six Lang supporters forming a Lang Labor party on the crossbench. In November, the United Australia Party and Lang Labor succeeded in defeating the Scullin government, resulting in the 1931 federal election in December. The election resulted in a landslide victory for the United Australia Party and the election of Lyons as Prime Minister.\n\nWhile Lang Labor would eventually be largely reabsorbed into the Labor Party, the United Australia Party continued to be the main conservative force in Australia until replaced by the Liberal Party of Australia in 1945.\n\n"}
{"id": "22832023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22832023", "title": "Blasphemy law", "text": "Blasphemy law\n\nA blasphemy law is a law prohibiting blasphemy, where blasphemy is the act of insulting or showing contempt or lack of reverence to a deity, or sacred things, or toward something considered sacred or inviolable. According to Pew Research Center, about a quarter of the world's countries and territories (26%) had anti-blasphemy laws or policies as of 2014.\n\nIn some states, blasphemy laws are used to protect the religious beliefs of a majority, while in other countries, they serve to offer protection of the religious beliefs of minorities.\n\nIn addition to prohibitions against blasphemy or blasphemous libel, blasphemy laws include all laws which give redress to those insulted on account of their religion. These blasphemy laws may forbid: the vilification of religion and religious groups, defamation of religion and its practitioners, denigration of religion and its followers, offending religious feelings, or the contempt of religion. In some jurisdictions, blasphemy laws include hate speech laws that extend beyond prohibiting the imminent incitement of hatred and violence. Some blasphemy laws, such as those formerly existing in Denmark, do not criminalize \"speech that expresses critique,\" but rather, \"sanctions speech that insults.\"\n\nArticle 20 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights obliges countries to adopt legislative measures against \"any advocacy of national racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence.\" However, they also note that such protections must be carefully circumscribed, and do not support prohibition of blasphemy per se.\n\nIn a number of Christian states, blasphemy laws may criminalize abusive or scurrilous speech about Christianity, and often times, other religions and their adherents, as such offenses \"have the tendency to lead to a breach of peace\".\n\nEmerging as a British colony in the 1780s, Australia received English common law, including the Blasphemy Act 1697. The first colonial laws were the Blasphemous and Seditious Libels Act 1827 for New South Wales (repealed in 1898), and legislation that governor Arthur Phillip enacted in Van Diemen's Land in the same year that regulated printing and publishing and prohibited 'blasphemous and seditious libels' as part of a law to maintain public order.\n\nThe last attempted prosecution for blasphemy by the Crown occurred in the State of Victoria in 1919.\n\nAustralia abolished and repealed all blasphemy laws at the federal level with the Australia Criminal Code Act 1995, but blasphemy laws remain in some states and territories. The states, territories, and the Commonwealth of Australia are not uniform in their treatment of blasphemy. Blasphemy is an offense in some jurisdictions, including New South Wales (section 49 of the Defamation Act 1974 (NSW)), Victoria and South Australia, but is not in others. The present legal situation regarding blasphemy in the Australian Capital Territory, Western Australia and Queensland is unclear.\n\nIn Austria, a section of the penal code relates to blasphemy:\n\nArt. 208 of the penal code states that \"publicly vilifying an act or object of religious worship\" is a crime punishable with one month to one year of prison, or fine.\n\nBlasphemous libel is a crime in Canada under section 296 of the Criminal Code R.S.C., 1985, c. C-46. Subsection (1) reads:\nSubsection (3) reads: \nOver the summer of 2016, a petition to parliament asking that the blasphemous libel law be repealed was circulated by several Canadian humanist groups. The petition was presented to the Government in December 2016. It responded in January 2017, stating that \"blasphemous libel, along with numerous other provisions of the Criminal Code, are presently under review by the Minister [of Justice] and her officials\". On 6 June 2017 Bill C-51, an Act to Amend the Criminal Code was introduced in the House of Commons by Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould. The act would repeal section 296 of the Criminal Code relating to blasphemous libel, as well as various other provisions of the Criminal Code which have been ruled or may be unconstitutional.\n\nIn Denmark, Paragraph 140 of the penal code was about blasphemy. Since 1866, this law has only led to two convictions, in 1938 and in 1946. A further charge was brought to court in 1971, but led to acquittal. In 2017 a man was charged with blasphemy for posting a video of himself burning the Quran on social media under the parole \"Yes to freedom - no to Islam\". The related hate speech paragraph (266b) is also used, albeit more frequently. In 2012, a survey indicated that 66% of Denmark's population still supported the blasphemy law, which made it illegal to \"mock legal religions and faiths in Denmark\". Before 2017, abolition of the blasphemy clause was proposed several times by members of the parliament, but failed to win a majority vote. The law was repealed on 2 June 2017 several days before the 2017 charge was due to come to trial. While public insults of a religion are no longer forbidden, speech and actions threatening or demeaning certain groups of people because of their religious beliefs continued to be punishable.\n\nIn Finland, section 10 of chapter 17 of the Criminal Code relate to blasphemy. The section is titled \"Breach of the sanctity of religion\", but the law text explicitly mentions \"publicly blaspheming against God\". Unsuccessful attempts were made to rescind the section in 1914, 1917, 1965, 1970, and 1998.\n\nThe writer Hannu Salama was convicted of blasphemy for his 1964 novel \"Juhannustanssit\". In 1969 Harro Koskinen was prosecuted and fined for works including his painting \"Pig Messiah\", a crucified pig; the works were later displayed in museums. \n\nChurch And State- committee came to a conclusion in 1977 that blasphemy should be removed from the Criminal Code. They suggested that instead of blasphemy the law should be against harassing people's right to believe. Since 1999 the section 10 of chapter 17 of the Criminal Code has been as the Church And State -committee suggested.\n\nJussi Halla-aho, who later became a Member of the Parliament of Finland, was fined for making connections between pedophilia and Islam in his 2008 blog text.\n\nThe definition of \"blasphemy\" was introduced into French law in the 13th century (after great debate among the French Moralists), based on the definition given by St. Thomas Aquinas: a sin of language, \"a failure to declare one's faith\", thus representing an attack on the purity of religion. This justified punishment by law, which became extreme during the reign of Louis IX. Later canonized by the Catholic church as Saint Louis, he became obsessed in his fight against heretics, Jews and Muslims, and set the punishment for blasphemy to mutilation of the tongue and lips. Louis IX passed the law against blasphemy in 1254 after he returned home from the Seventh Crusade. \n\nAt the beginning of the French Revolution, according to the articles 10 and 11 of the 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen (Déclaration des Droits de l'Homme et du Citoyen) the notion of blasphemy was eliminated from French law in 1791, but it continued to prohibit the use of abusive language or disturbance of the peace. Sacrilege actions towards the cultual objects became a crime in 1825 during the Bourbon Restoration (1814), to be revoked under the less conservative Louis Philippe in 1830, and \"religious insult\" (\"\"outrage à la morale religieuse\" \") was introduced by the Act of 17 May 1819. It was definitively removed from French law by the Act of 29 July 1881 which instituted freedom of the press. , and since 1972 with the ratification of the European Convention of Human Rights, French law proscribed hate or violence against, and slander or libel against, people due to their membership of a religious group, nationality, ethnic group, race, sexual orientation or handicap (Art.23, 24, 32). The Act of 1881 protects individuals and groups of individuals against defamation or insult (\"\"injure\" \" and \"\"outrage\" \" for foreign ambassadors), but not the divinities ( like Jesus Christ) and their doctrines as for blasphemy.\n\nThe Alsace-Moselle region was a specific exception, as it was annexed to Germany from 1871 to 1918 and therefore when the \"religious insult\" law was repealed in the rest of France. The German penal code replaced the pre-1871 French law but the local law in Alsace-Moselle retained in some few elements in 1919, like the religious legislation and the articles 166 and 167, when it reverted to France. This included a ban of \"blasphemy \" (as translated from the German word \"lästerung \") against Christianity and Judaism, without mention of Islam which at the time had very few followers in Alsace. Since the dispositions of article 166 were not among those finally transposed officially in French law since the Act of 1 June 1924, whose article 1 and 1 s) introduced as well in Alsace-Moselle the generally referred to Act of 29 July 1881, then translated into French in 2013 by the decrees n•2013-395 and particularly n•2013-776, they received no application since then, as the appeal court of Colmar refused to apply this article in 1954, contrary to article 167 (obstacle to the exercise of worship). The minister of justice replied to some senators that article 166 was already implicitly repealed because contrary to the French fundamental law. Its validity could have also been questioned by a court since 1975 and by a prioritary question of constitutionality since 2008. In response to the \"Charlie Hebdo\" attack and with the full support of the Alsatian churches, an October 2016 vote of the French parliament symbolically repealed this long-dormant Alsace-Moselle \"blasphemy\" law which was implicitly unenforceable before.\n\nIn Germany, religious defamation is covered by Article 166 of the Strafgesetzbuch, the German criminal law. If a deed is capable of disturbing the public peace, defamation is actionable. The article reads as follows:\n\nIn 2006, the application of this article received much media attention when a Manfred van H. (also known as \"Mahavo\") was prosecuted for defamation for distributing rolls of toilet paper with the words \"Koran, the Holy Koran\" stamped on them. Beyond the sentence he also received death threats from Islamists and needed a police bodyguard. In February 2016 a man was fined 500 euro for displaying anti-Christian bumper stickers on his vehicle.\n\nArticles 198, 199, and 201 of the Greek Penal Code create offences which involve blasphemy. Article 198 \"Malicious Blasphemy\" provides:\n\nArticle 199 \"Blasphemy Concerning Religions\" states: \"One who publicly and maliciously and by any means blasphemes the Greek Orthodox Church or any other religion tolerable in Greece shall be punished by imprisonment for not more than two years\".\n\nArticle 201 provides: \"One who willfully removes a corpse, parts of a corpse or the ashes of the dead from those who have lawful custody thereof or one who commits an offense with respect to a corpse or acts blasphemously and improperly toward a grave, shall be punished by imprisonment for not more than two years\".\n\nGreece has not used its laws about blasphemy to protect any religion other than the Greek Orthodox Church, which is the state church of Greece.\nIn December 2003, Greece prosecuted for blasphemy Gerhard Haderer, an Austrian, along with his Greek publisher and four booksellers. Haderer is the author of an illustrated, humorous book entitled \"The Life of Jesus\". The prosecutor contended that the book's depiction of Jesus as a hippie was blasphemous. On 13 April 2005, the Court of Appeal of Athens, reversed the judgment of the Court of First Instance, and acquitted Haderer.\n\nGreece complements its laws against blasphemy with laws against \"religious insult\". The laws forbid the creation, display or trade in work that \"insults public sentiment\" or that \"offends people's religious sentiments\". The right to redress for a religious insult has so far been restricted to Christians.\n\nThe Icelandic blasphemy law was repealed on 2 July 2015, after a strong push by the Icelandic Pirate Party and a number of associations including Icelandic Ethical Humanist Association (Siðmennt), the bishop of Iceland, the Icelandic priesthood, the Association of Publishers, PEN Iceland, IMMI (The International Modern Media Institute) an Icelandic based international organization of information and freedom of expression, and an atheist group called Vantrú. Formerly, blasphemy was forbidden with a fine or prison sentence up to three months (Article 125 of the General Penal Code of Iceland, enacted on 12 February 1940). The constitution also mentions the state religion and religion in general.\n\nIn Ireland, blasphemy against any form of religion is prohibited by the 2009 Defamation Act. Blasphemy against Christianity was prohibited by the constitution and carried a maximum fine of €25,000; however, the offence of blasphemous libel, last prosecuted in 1855 in connection to an alleged Bible-burning, was ruled in 1999 to be incompatible with the Constitution's guarantee of religious equality. A controversial law was passed on 9 July 2009 and went into effect on 1 January 2010. The law prohibits publishing or uttering \"matter that is grossly abusive or insulting in relation to matters held sacred by any religion, thereby causing outrage among a substantial number of the adherents of that religion\".\n\nThe Irish Constitutional Convention in 2013 recommended, and the Government endorsed, the repeal of the constitutional prohibition on blasphemy (Article 40.6.1.i.), but the Taoiseach indicated to postpone the issue. Suggestions in 2014 to hold a referendum on the matter have so far not materialized. Calls for repeal resurged after the January 2015 \"Charlie Hebdo\" shooting.\n\nThe law had not been invoked until in February 2015 English comedian Stephen Fry, when asked during an RTÉ programme what he might say to God at the gates of heaven, responded, without specifying any religion,\n\"I'd say: 'Bone cancer in children, what's that about? How dare you? How dare you create a world in which there is such misery that is not our fault? It's not right. It's utterly, utterly evil. Why should I respect a capricious, mean-minded, stupid god who creates a world which is so full of injustice and pain?' That's what I'd say (...) the god who created this universe, if it was created by a god, is quite clearly a maniac, an utter maniac, totally selfish (...)\"\n\nAn allegation of blasphemy was made to police at the time, and in 2017 police contacted Fry to inform him that the incident was being investigated. News of the investigation caused a big stir, but a few days later it was reported that the police, the Garda Síochána, had dropped the case as there was no injured party. The Garda Síochána could not find enough people outraged over the actor's anti-God remarks. One individual complaint alone cannot result in a prosecution under the legislation and only one viewer made a formal complaint against Fry's comments. The complainant said that he was not personally offended by the programme but simply believed that the comments made by Fry on RTÉ were criminal blasphemy and that he was doing his civic duty by reporting a crime.\n\nIn June 2018, the new Irish government approved of a referendum on removing the offense from the Constitution, which later took place on October 26, 2018. During the referendum, voters abolished the Constitutional blasphemy ban by a margin of 64.85% to 35.15%. Although the ban is still covered by the 2009 Defamation Act, for which offenders can face a fine of up to €25,000 for blasphemy, Minister of Justice and Equality Charles Flanagan will now also move to repeal sections 36 and 37 of the Defamation Act 2009.\n\nInstead of a law against blasphemy, Malta had laws against the vilification of religion, and against immorality. Enacted in 1933, Article 163 of Malta's Criminal Code prohibited \"vilification of the Roman Catholic Apostolic Religion\", which is Malta's state religion. Vilification of Malta's religion made the vilifier liable to imprisonment for a term from one to six months. By Article 164, vilification of any cult \"tolerated by law\" made the vilifier liable to imprisonment for a term from one to three months. Article 338(bb) imposes liability upon anyone who, \"even though in a state of intoxication, publicly utters any obscene or indecent words, or makes obscene acts or gestures, or in any other manner not otherwise provided for in this Code, offends against public morality, propriety or decency\". Article 342 provides:\nIn 2008, criminal procedures were initiated against 621 people for blaspheming in public.\n\nIn July 2016, the parliament of Malta repealed articles 163 and 164 of the criminal code, the country's blasphemy laws.\n\nIn Italy, under the article 724 of the Penal Code, blasphemy in public is considered as an \"administrative offense\" and punished with a fine ranging from €51 to €309.\nFirst introduced in 1930 under Mussolini, blasphemy was decriminalized as per art.57, d.lgs. n.507 of 30 December 1999.\nAs per Corte Costituzionale sentence n.440 of 18 October 1995, the law punishes only blasphemy against the \"Deity\". Article 404 of the Penal Code also punishes public offenses to religion, and has been invoked against artists using religious imagery in satirical art.\n\nWith the introduction of the Dutch Criminal Code of 1881, in force since 1886, the Netherlands obtained its first law against blasphemy. The Minister of Justice argued that, although God would be perfectly capable of protecting his own rights, the Dutch legislator had to 'protect the rights of society'.\n\nIn 1932, a bill was proposed to tighten the 1886 law. Parliament was divided between confessional and non-confessional parties, but also between different confessional parties on the question whether the purpose of the bill was protecting God or religion, or religious people. The bill passed on 1 June 1932 with 49 against 44 votes in the House, 28 against 18 votes in the Senate, and was adopted on 4 November 1932.\n\nArticle 147 punished (by up to three months in jail or a fine of the second category (i.e. up to €3,800)) anyone who publicly, orally or in writing or depiction, offends religious feelings by scornful blasphemy. Furthermore, article 429bis prohibited displaying blasphemous material at places visible from the public road. The law came into being in the 1930s after the Communist Party called for Christmas to be dropped from the list of state holidays. The last successful conviction under Article 147 took place in the early 1960s when a student newspaper was fined 100 guilders for satirizing the \"New Testament\". The law against blasphemy complements laws against racial discrimination and incitement to violence.\n\nIn 1966, the Public Prosecution Service prosecuted writer Gerard Reve under Article 147. In his novel \"Nader tot U\" (\"Nearer to Thee\"), Reve describes the narrator's sexual intercourse with God, who is incarnated in a donkey. The court of first instance convicted Reve, but he appealed. In April 1968, an appeals court quashed the conviction. This effectively made the Dutch blasphemy law dead letter.\n\nIn November 2008, Justice Minister Ernst Hirsch Ballin expressed the country's coalition government's intent to repeal Article 147. He said the government would strengthen the legislation against discrimination to prohibit any insult to any group of people. In May 2009, the government decided to leave the law as it is. The decision followed a high court ruling in which a man who had put up a poster that read \"stop the tumour that is Islam\" was found not guilty of insulting a group of people on the grounds of their religion. The decision not to abolish the ban on blasphemy was partly motivated to ensure the support of the orthodox Christian SGP for the minority government in the senate. After a general election in 2012, a new coalition government was formed and a majority of parliament pledged to support a proposal to repeal the blasphemy law.\n\nIn November 2012, parliament decided to overturn the blasphemy laws. It would pass with support from the VVD, but the fundamentalist Christian group SGP were strongly opposed to the measure. According to the SGP, the decision to lift the ban on blasphemy is a \"painful loss of a moral anchor and a symptom of a spiritual crisis\".\n\nOn 1 February 2014, the law on blasphemy was officially abolished.\n\nIn New Zealand, Section 123 of the Crimes Act 1961 allows for imprisonment up to one year for anyone who publishes any \"blasphemous libel\". Cases are only prosecuted at the discretion of the New Zealand Attorney-General, who usually cites overriding free speech objections so as not to pursue such a case. The only prosecution for blasphemous libel in New Zealand was the case of John Glover, publisher of the newspaper \"The Maoriland Worker\", in 1922. Glover was acquitted.\n\nThe British comedy film \"Monty Python's Life of Brian\" (1979) about a fictional Jewish man living at the same time and neighbourhood as Jesus Christ, generated significant international controversy, and was banned in several countries including Ireland and Norway. Hundreds of letters were sent to Film Censor's Office to have the film banned in New Zealand as well on the grounds of it being 'blasphemous' against the Christian faith, but the Chief Censor of Films responded by stating that they had found no evidence of blasphemy or sacrilegiousness in the film.\n\nIn March 2018, Justice Minister Andrew Little (Labour Party) introduced legislation to repeal the blasphemy law. An earlier Labour repeal attempt in 2017 was blocked by the then governing National Party.\n\nNigeria prohibits blasphemy by section 204 of its Criminal Code and by permitting Sharia courts to operate in some states. Vigilantism frequently usurps the jurisdiction of the courts.\n\nIn 2009, the Norwegian Parliament voted to remove the dormant law against blasphemy (§ 142 in the penal code). It was, however, removed from the penal code of 2005, which did not come into force until October 2015. Therefore, blasphemy was illegal until 2015 under the old Penal Code of 1902.\n\nThe famous writer and social activist Arnulf Øverland was the last to be tried by this law, in 1933, after giving a speech named \"Kristendommen – den tiende landeplage\" (\"Christianity – the tenth plague\"), but was acquitted. The last person sentenced for blasphemy in Norway was Arnfred Olsen in 1912, and he had to pay a fine of 10 Norwegian krone.\n\nThe British comedy film \"Monty Python's Life of Brian\" (1979) was briefly banned in Norway by the authorities in early 1980, because it 'was believed to commit the crime of blasphemy by violating people's religious feelings'. However, the ban was lifted in October 1980 after a group of theologians who had seen the film produced a statement saying that there was no good reason for a total ban. \"Life of Brian\" was allowed on the big screen, provided with a poster at the beginning which stated that Brian was not Jesus.\n\n\"Crimes against religious worship\" are stated under section four of the Revised Penal Code of the Philippines. Under article 132 and 133, respectively, \"interruption of religious worship\" and \"offending the religious feelings\" are punishable by law. \"Interruption of religious worship\" is defined as \"preventing or disturbing the ceremonies or manifestations of any religion\" and \"offending the religious feelings\" is defined as \"performing acts notoriously offensive to the feelings of the faithful\" in a place devoted to religious worship or during the celebration of any religious ceremony.\n\nPenalties range from imprisonment of four months and a day to six months; crimes that involve violence or threats can carry a penalty of up to six years in jail.\n\nWhile Poland's penal code makes no reference to any sort of blasphemy law, it states that \"Whoever offends religious feelings of other people by publicly insulting an object of religious cult or a place for public holding of religious ceremonies, is subject to a fine, restriction of liberty or loss of liberty for up to 2 years\". The article has been used by pro-Church politicians and activists on numerous occasions, whenever they felt their religious feelings had been offended in some way. Opponents of the article maintain that due to its vagueness it is prone to abuse by seriously limiting the freedom of speech and effectively preventing any kind of debate on the Church's widespread influence on social, sexual and political life of Poland.\n\nA notable conviction on the basis of this law was that of the pop singer Dorota \"Doda\" Rabczewska who in 2012 was fined for the amount of 5,000 złotys for saying in an interview that the Bible was written by people 'drunk on wine and smoking some kind of herbs'. Her complaint was rejected by the Constitutional Tribunal which confirmed the law did not violate the Constitution.\n\nRomania does not have any blasphemy laws in force. According to Romanian law, \"cults, religious associations and religious groups ... must not infringe upon ... fundamental human rights and liberties\", which, according to the Constitution of Romania, include freedom of conscience and freedom of expression.\n\nIn May 2011, a National Liberal deputy proposed a bill for the prevention of religious intolerance, which would have criminalized blasphemy. The bill was withdrawn, however, later that month.\n\nAfter the Pussy Riot incident, Russian lawmakers started considering a bill proposing prison sentences for desecration. The State Duma investigated \"the situation of sacrilegious acts against Church property and propose amendments to the Russian Penal Code\" in their 2012 Autumn Session. The Union of Orthodox Citizens and MP of United Russia supported the proposal, the latter stating: \"We really should make some amendments to the Penal Code in order to cool down these outcasts who have nothing else to do in their lives other than commit such offenses.\"\n\nThe bill was accepted 11 June 2013. According to art.148 of Russian Criminal Code 1 it is declared a federal crime to conduct \"public actions clearly defying the society and committed with the express purpose of insulting religious beliefs\". Part 2 of the same article establishes stricter punishments for the aforementioned actions when coupled with desecration of holy symbols and (or) religious texts.\n\nBlasphemy is a common law offence in South Africa, defined as \"unlawfully, intentionally and publicly acting contemptuously towards God.\" Several legal writers have suggested that the illegality of blasphemy has become unconstitutional as a result of the adoption in 1994 of the Bill of Rights, which includes the right to freedom of expression. It has also been suggested that it is unconstitutional because the criminal prohibition only applies to blasphemy against Christianity, and therefore discriminates on the basis of religion.\n\nBlasphemy prosecutions have been rare since the start of the twentieth century, to the point that writers in the early part of the century suggested that the crime had been abrogated through disuse. However, in 1934 a newspaper editor was convicted of blasphemy for publishing a story in which a nun has a vision of a sexual relationship with Jesus Christ, and the validity of the conviction was affirmed by the Appellate Division. In 1962 Harold Rubin was prosecuted for a painting depicting Christ naked on the cross along with inversions of Biblical sayings, but he was acquitted. In 1968 the editor of \"Varsity\" was prosecuted for publishing a report of a symposium on the topic \"Is God Dead?\", which quoted statements that \"We must write God off entirely\" and \"[God] is beginning to stink\". He was convicted, but at sentencing received only a caution and discharge.\n\nThe Equality Act of 2000 forbids hate speech, which is defined as \"words based on one or more of the prohibited grounds, against any person, that could reasonably be construed to demonstrate a clear intention to: (a) be hurtful; (b) be harmful or to incite harm; (c) promote or propagate hatred.\" The \"prohibited grounds\" include religion, and thus some blasphemous speech falls within the scope of hate speech. The prohibition of hate speech is, however, not a criminal prohibition, and only civil penalties would result.\n\nThe article 525 of the penal law in Spain considers \"vilification\" of religious \"feelings\", \"dogmas\", \"beliefs\" or \"rituals\". This extension to \"dogmas\" and \"beliefs\" makes it very close to a blasphemy law in practice, depending on the interpretation of the judge.\n\nFor instance, in 2012 it was used to prosecute a famous artist, Javier Krahe, for a scene (shot 34 years ago, and lasting just 54 seconds) in a documentary about him. He was discharged the same year.\n\nThere is presently no act prohibiting blasphemy in the Swedish Law. In Sweden, a general principal developed during the 20th Century was that religion should be regarded as a private matter. Historically, Sweden had a blasphemy specific law introduced by King Erik XIV in 1563 that specifically protected religion, followed by similar Acts until 1949, when it was replaced by an Act on \"Peace of Faith\" which was a milder form of restriction. In 1970, the 1949 Act was repealed and a new Act was introduced on \"agitation against a specific group of people\". The new Act focuses on minority groups of a specific \"race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin, faith or sexual orientation\". Thus, the Act does not protect religion as such, but the group of people adhering to the religion. The new Act parallels Religious faith with the protection of people on the grounds of ethnicity or sexual orientation and has mostly been used in cases concerning agitation in relation to Jews and homosexuals.\n\nIn Switzerland, Article 261 of the penal code titled \"Attack on the freedom of faith and the freedom to worship\" (Störung der Glaubens- und Kultusfreiheit) criminalizes:\n\nThe United Kingdom is made up of four distinct parts and several legal jurisdictions. In criminal justice matters, these jurisdictions are England and Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland. Blasphemy laws dating back to the medieval times were repealed in England and Wales in 2008, but equivalent laws remain in statute in Scotland and Northern Ireland, though they have not been used in many years.\n\nEnglish blasphemy laws were historically defended with the following reasoning: the \"[blasphemy] law is needed to uphold the national law, which is based on Christianity. Thus, targeting Christianity is targeting the very foundation of England.\"\n\nThe last attempted prosecution under these laws was in 2007 when the evangelical group Christian Voice sought a private prosecution against the BBC over its broadcasting of the show \"\" (which includes a scene depicting Jesus, dressed as a baby, professing to be \"a bit gay\"). The charges were rejected by the City of Westminster magistrates court. Christian Voice applied to have this ruling overturned by the High Court, but the application was rejected. The court found that the common law blasphemy offences specifically did not apply to stage productions (s. 2(4) of the Theatres Act 1968) and broadcasts (s. 6 of the Broadcasting Act 1990).\n\nThe last successful blasphemy prosecution (also a private prosecution) was \"Whitehouse v. Lemon\" in 1977, when Denis Lemon, the editor of \"Gay News\", was found guilty. His newspaper had published James Kirkup's poem \"The Love that Dares to Speak its Name\", which allegedly vilified Christ and his life. Lemon was fined £500 and given a suspended sentence of nine months' imprisonment. It had been \"touch and go\", said the judge, whether he would actually send Lemon to jail. In 2002, a deliberate and well-publicized public repeat reading of the poem took place on the steps of St Martin-in-the-Fields church in Trafalgar Square, but did not lead to any prosecution.\n\nIn 1696, a Scottish court sentenced Thomas Aikenhead to death for blasphemy. The last prosecution for blasphemy in Scotland was in 1843.\n\nThe last person in Britain to be imprisoned for blasphemy was John William Gott on 9 December 1921. He had three previous convictions for blasphemy when he was prosecuted for publishing two pamphlets which satirized the biblical story of Jesus entering Jerusalem (Matthew 21:2–7), comparing Jesus to a circus clown. He was sentenced to nine months' hard labour.\n\nIn 1985, the Law Commission (England and Wales) published a report, \"Criminal Law: Offences against Religious and Public Worship\", that concluded that the common law offences of blasphemy and blasphemous libel should be abolished without replacement. On 5 March 2008, an amendment was passed to the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 which abolished the common law offences of blasphemy and blasphemous libel in England and Wales. (Common law is abolished, not repealed.) The Act received royal assent on 8 May 2008, and the relevant section came into force on 8 July 2008.\n\nBlasphemy remains an offence under the common law in Scotland (last prosecuted in 1843) and in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe 1989 film \"Visions of Ecstasy\" was the only film ever banned in the UK for blasphemy. Following the abolition of the blasphemy laws in England and Wales in 2008, the film was eventually classified by the BBFC for release as 18-rated in 2012.\n\nA prosecution for blasphemy in the United States would be a violation of the U.S. Constitution and no blasphemy laws exist at the federal level. The First Amendment to the United States Constitution (adopted in 1791) provides: \"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press . . . .\"\n\nBefore winning their independence from the British Empire in the late 18th century, some of the British colonies in North America such as the Province of Massachusetts Bay had blasphemy laws. The 1791 First Amendment effectively put an end to them in the new American republic.\n\nBecause of the First Amendment's protection of free speech and religious exercise from federal interference, and the Supreme Court's extension of those protections against state regulation, the United States and its constituent state governments may not prosecute blasphemous speech or religious insults and may not allow civil actions on those grounds. In \"Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson\", the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1952 that New York could not enforce a censorship law against filmmakers whose films contained \"sacrilegious\" content. The opinion of the Court, by Justice Clark, stated that: \"From the standpoint of freedom of speech and the press, it is enough to point out that the state has no legitimate interest in protecting any or all religions from views distasteful to them which is sufficient to justify prior restraints upon the expression of those views. It is not the business of government in our nation to suppress real or imagined attacks upon a particular religious doctrine, whether they appear in publications, speeches, or motion pictures.\"\n\nThe United States and some individual state jurisdictions provide for stronger criminal penalties for crimes when committed against a person because of that person's religious or some other affiliations. For instance, Section 3A1.1 of the 2009 United States Sentencing Guidelines states that: \"If the finder of fact at trial or, in the case of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the court at sentencing determines beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant intentionally selected any victim or any property as the object of the offense of conviction because of the actual or perceived race, color, religion, national origin, ethnicity, gender, disability, or sexual orientation of any person,\" the sentencing court is required to increase the standard sentencing range.\n\nIn a number of countries where Islam is the state religion, Islamic sharia law is the principal legislation, or affects the laws of the country. Blasphemy in Islam is impious utterance or action concerning God, Muhammad or anything considered sacred in Islam. The Islamic holy book, the Qur'an, admonishes blasphemy, but does not specify the punishment. The hadiths, which are another source of sharia, suggest various punishments for blasphemy. \n\nAn Islamic state, Afghanistan prohibits blasphemy as an offense under Sharia. Blasphemy can be punished by retaliatory penalties up to and including execution by hanging.\n\nAlthough ninety-nine percent of Algeria's population is Sunni Muslim, and the Constitution declares that Islam is the state religion, Algeria uses retaliatory legislation rather than Sharia to combat blasphemy against Islam. The penalty for blasphemy can be up to 10 years of imprisonment and a fine.\n\nBangladesh forbids blasphemy by a provision in its penal code that prohibits \"hurting religious sentiments\", and by other laws and policies that attack freedom of speech.\nIn April 2013, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina rejected calls for new laws from radical Islamist groups, notably Hefajat-e Islam, demanding death penalty for people involved in blasphemy. She described Bangladesh as a \"secular democracy, where every religion had a right to be practiced freely and fairly\", and that \"if anyone was found guilty of hurting the sentiments of the followers of any religion or its venerable figures, there was a law to deal with it\".\n\nArticle 98(f) of the Egyptian Penal Code, as amended by Law 147/2006 states the penalty for blasphemy and similar crimes:\n\nConfinement for a period of not less than six months and not exceeding five years, or a fine of not less than five hundred pounds and not exceeding one thousand pounds shall be the penalty inflicted on whoever makes use of religion in propagating, either by words, in writing, or in any other means, extreme ideas for the purpose of inciting strife, ridiculing or insulting a heavenly religion or a sect following it, or damaging national unity.\n\nArticle 156(a) of Indonesia's Criminal Code forbids anyone from deliberately, in public, expressing feelings of hostility, hatred, or contempt against religions with the purpose of preventing others from adhering to any religion, and forbids anyone from disgracing a religion. The penalty for violating Article 156(a) is a maximum of five years of imprisonment.\n\nAn Islamic theocracy, Iran derives its law against blasphemy from Sharia. The law against blasphemy complements laws against criticizing the Islamic government, insulting Islam, and publishing materials that deviate from Islamic standards.\n\nJordan's Penal Code prohibits anyone from blaspheming Islam, demeaning Islam or Muslim feelings, or insulting Prophet Mohammed. Violating the prohibitions makes the violator liable for imprisonment (up to three years) and a fine.\n\nMalaysia prevents insult to religion and to the religious by education, by restrictions upon the broadcasting and publishing media, and by the legal system. Some states in the Malaysian federation operate Sharia courts to protect Islam, and, when Sharia is not applicable, the Malaysian Penal Code provides penalties for offenses against religion.\n\nThe crime of apostasy is defined in section IV (entitled Act of Indecency toward Islam) of the Mauritanian Penal Code, established under the order of 9 July 1983. Article 306, paragraph 1 of the criminal code indicates, \"Every Muslim guilty of the crime of apostasy, either by word or by action of apparent or obvious, will be invited to repent within three days.\"\n\nThe State of Palestine has several provisions in civil and military law against blasphemy. An infamous 2010 case, in which these were employed to attempt a prosecution, was that of Waleed Al-Husseini, a young man from the West Bank town of Qalqilya who had left Islam to become an atheist, and openly challenged and ridiculed religion online. He was arrested without charges and jailed in October 2010, after which the Palestinian Authority alleged Al-Husseini had committed blasphemy on the Internet. A Palestinian human rights expert at the time expected Al-Husseini to be tried according to a 1960 Jordanian law against defaming religion, which was still in force in the West Bank. Instead, Al-Husseini was charged with three counts of indictment according to the Palestine Military Code of Justice, namely: \"inciting religious hatred\" (Article 177), \"insulting religious leaders\" (Article 225 and 226/B), and \"offending religious views\" (Article 230/A). He was eventually released after 10 months in prison due to heavy international diplomatic pressure, primarily exerted by France.\n\nMore people are on death row or serving life sentences for blasphemy in Pakistan than in any other country in the world.\n\nThe anti-blasphemy laws in Pakistan are quite complicated. Offenders may be vigorously prosecuted. Chapter XV of Pakistan Penal Code deals with \"offences relating to religion\":\n\nThere is a death penalty for blasphemy in Pakistan (only under section 295 c). Those prosecuted are usually minorities such as Ahmadiyya and Christians but it seems that they are also increasingly other Muslims. Persons accused of blasphemy as well as police, lawyers, and judges have been subject to harassment, threats, attacks, and murders when blasphemy is the issue.\n\nIn November 2008 Pakistan's government appointed Shahbaz Bhatti as Federal Minister for Minorities and gave him cabinet rank. Bhatti had promised that the Asif Ali Zardari government would review Pakistan's blasphemy laws. Pakistan has been an active supporter of the campaign by the Organisation of the Islamic Conference to create global laws against blasphemy.\nMinister Bhatti was shot dead on 2 March 2011 in Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan. On 19 March 2014, Pakistani English-language newspaper, \"The Nation\", conducted a poll of its readers that showed 68% of Pakistanis believe the blasphemy law should be repealed.\n\nIn September 2016 a sixteen-year-old Christian teenage boy, Nabeel Chohan, was arrested in Pakistan after he \"liked\" a Facebook post that was allegedly blasphemous. According to Punjab Police the teenager, was jailed and was awaiting trial for sharing the post on social media.\n\nIn November 2017 an obscure Islamist group Tehreek-i-Labaik Ya Rasool Allah Pakistan in Pakistan staged a sit-in in the capital Islamabad. They forced the government to abandon an amendment to the oath sworn by election candidates that allowed for a variation in the oath because of the candidates religious beliefs. They also caused the law minister Zahid Hamid to resign.\n\nThe penalty for committing blasphemy in Qatar is a jail sentence of up to 7 years. Additionally, the law stipulates a 1-year prison sentence or QR1,000 fine for defamation of Islam by producing or promoting defamatory imagery.\n\nReligious criticism on websites is censored in Qatar. The censorship office of the Qatar General Broadcasting and Television Corporation monitors imported foreign broadcasting for sensitive religious content.\n\nIslam is Saudi Arabia's state religion. The country's monarchy follows Sunni Islam. The country's laws are an amalgam of rules from Sharia, royal edicts, and fatawa from the Council of Senior Religious Scholars; they prescribe penalties up to the death penalty for blasphemy.\n\nSunni Islam is the state religion of Sudan. Before South Sudan received independence, about seventy percent of the country's population was Muslim. The next largest group—about twenty-five percent of the population—was animist.\n\nSection 125 of the Sudanese Criminal Act prohibits \"insulting religion, inciting hatred and showing contempt for religious beliefs\". The section includes as penalties: imprisonment, a fine, and a maximum of forty lashes. In November 2007, the section gave rise to the Sudanese teddy bear blasphemy case. In December 2007, the section was used against two Egyptian booksellers. They were sentenced to six months in prison because they sold a book that the court deemed an insult to Aisha, one of Prophet Mohammed's wives.\n\nIn May 2005, the authorities arrested Mohammed Taha Mohammed Ahmed, and charged him with violating section 125. Ahmed was the editor-in-chief of a daily newspaper \"Al-Wifaq\". The paper had published an article about a 500-year-old Islamic manuscript which says the real name of Mohammed's father was not Abdallah but Abdel Lat, or \"Slave of Lat\", an idol of the pre-Islamic era. A court fined Al-Wifaq eight million Sudanese pounds—the paper was shut down for three months—but acquitted Ahmed. Ahmed was found decapitated in September 2006.\n\nArticle 216 of the Turkish Penal Code (\"Provoking people to be rancorous and hostile\") criminalizes blasphemy and religious insult, as well as hate speech. The article, which is in the fifth section of the Turkish Penal Code (\"Offenses Against Public Peace\") is as follows:\n\nOn 1 June 2012, pianist Fazıl Say came under investigation by the Istanbul Prosecutor's Office over statements made on Twitter, declaring himself an atheist and retweeting a message poking fun at the Islamic conception of paradise. On 15 April 2013, Say was sentenced to 10 months in jail, reduced from 12 months for good behavior in court. The sentence was suspended, meaning he was allowed to move freely provided he did not repeat the offence in the next five years. On appeal, Turkey's Supreme Court of Appeals reversed the conviction on 26 October 2015, ruling that Say's Twitter posts fell within the bounds of freedom of thought and freedom of expression.\n\nThe United Arab Emirates discourage blasphemy by controlling what is published and distributed, by using Sharia punishments against Muslims, and by using judge-made penalties against non-Muslims.\n\nAccusations of blasphemy in Yemen are often aimed at religious minorities, intellectuals and artists, reporters, human rights defenders, and opponents of the ruling party. Vigilantism or abuse by the authorities can kill an accused or force them into exile. The accused in Yemen is subject to Islamic law (Sharia). Sharia, according to some interpretations, prescribes death as the proper punishment for blasphemy.\n\nChina, officially an atheist state, banned a book titled \"Xing Fengsu\" (\"Sexual Customs\"), which had allegedly insulted Islam, and placed its authors under arrest in 1989, after protests in Lanzhou and Beijing by Chinese Hui Muslims, during which the Chinese police provided protection to the Hui Muslim protestors, and the Chinese government organized public burnings of the book. The Chinese government assisted them and gave into their demands because Hui do not have a separatist movement, unlike the Uyghurs, Hui Muslim protestors who violently rioted by vandalizing property during the protests against the book were let off by the Chinese government and went unpunished while Uyghur protestors were imprisoned.\n\nIn 2007, anticipating the coming \"Year of the Pig\" in the Chinese calendar, depictions of pigs were banned from CCTV \"to avoid conflicts with ethnic minorities\". This is believed to refer to China's population of 20 million Muslims (to whom pigs are considered \"unclean\").\n\nIn response to the 2015 \"Charlie Hebdo\" shooting Chinese state-run media attacked \"Charlie Hebdo\" for publishing the cartoons insulting Muhammad, with the state-run \"Xinhua\" advocated limiting freedom of speech, while another state-run newspaper \"Global Times\" said the attack was \"payback\" for what it characterized as Western colonialism and accusing \"Charlie Hebdo\" of trying to incite a clash of civilizations.\n\nIn Israel, blasphemy is covered by Articles 170 and 173 of the penal code.\n\nThe law is traced back to the British High Commission \"The Abuse and Vilification (religious invective) Order No. 43 of 1929\", enacted in efforts to suppress the 1929 Palestine riots. The order contained the language: \"Any person who utters a word or sound in public or within earshot of any other person that may be or is intended to offend his religious sensitivities or faith can expect to be found guilty and eligible for a one-year jail sentence.\"\n\nIn 1860, laws were created in British India that made it a \"crime to disturb a religious assembly, trespass on burial grounds, insult religious beliefs or intentionally destroy or defile a place or an object of worship, punishable by up to 10 years in jail.\"\n\nSection 295A of the Indian Penal Code has been used as a blasphemy law to prevent insulting Christianity, Islam and Hinduism.\n\nThe British-era section 295A of the penal code which was created by Christians who ruled India is extant and has not been repealed; it contains an anti-blasphemy law. Section 295A was introduced in 1927 to prevent hate speech that insults or attempts to insult the religion or the religious beliefs of any class of citizen with deliberate and malicious intention to outrage their religious feelings but the main purpose of this law has been to maintain \"public order in a multireligious and religiously sensitive society.\"\nAn important difference between the offence in the Indian Penal Code and English common law is that the defendant must have a \"deliberate and malicious intention of outraging religious feelings\" in the Indian code while English common law had no such inclusion. Section 295A has, nevertheless, been used a number of times to prevent free and honest discussion on religious issues and remains a threat to freedom of expression. The same section 295A appears in the penal codes of Pakistan and Myanmar where it is used as a blasphemy law. There have been widespread calls in India from Hindus to repeal the regressive British code.\n\nIn India, many people are arrested in accordance with the above-mentioned laws. Cases include those of: Kamlesh Tiwari, Tarak Biswas, and Sanal Edamaruku. Many books are banned for blasphemous content.\n\nSection 295A and 298 of the Myanmar Penal Code are used to prosecute people for blasphemy. The Myanmar Penal Code shares a common origin with the penal codes of Pakistan and India and other British colonies in the Penal Code of 1860. The offences are:\n\nChapter XV\n\nOF OFFENCES RELATING TO RELIGION\n\nSection 295 and 295A carry a maximum penalty of two years' imprisonment, a fine, or both, and sections 296, 297 and 298 a maximum of one year's imprisonment, a fine, or both. Section 295A was added to the Penal code by a legislative amendment in 1927 and was intended to protect religious minorities. It was a response to a perceived need to prohibit incitement against Muslim minorities by Hindu nationalists in India, but is now used in Myanmar to protect Buddhist nationalists against prosecution for incitement against Muslim minorities!\n\nIn December 2014, bar owner Tun Thurein and bar managers Htut Ko Lwin and New Zealander Philip Blackwood who ran the VGastro Bar in Yangon were arrested and sentenced in March 2015 to two-and-a-half years of hard labour after posting a psychedelic image of the Buddha wearing headphones to promote their bar on the internet. in June 2015, writer and former National League for Democracy information officer, Htin Lin Oo was sentenced to two years of hard labour for violating section 295A. The charge resulted from a speech in which he accused several prominent Buddhist organisations of extreme nationalism with particularly reference to Ashin Wirathu, who has been accused of hate speech and incitement of violence against Muslims by international observers many times since anti-Rohingya violence erupted in 2012.\n\nArticle 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) 1976 obliges signatory countries to guarantee everyone the right to hold opinions without restriction and to guarantee the right to freedom of expression, to impart information and ideas of all kinds, either orally, in writing or in print, in art, or through any other media. Paragraph 3 of article 19 allows for certain restrictions to freedom expression that are both necessary and provided by law to safeguard the reputations of others, for the protection of national security or of public order, or of public health or morals and article 20 obliges countries to prohibit \"propaganda for war or advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence.\"\n\nIn July 2011, the UN Human Rights Committee released a 52-paragraph statement, General Comment 34 on the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, concerning freedoms of opinion and expression. Paragraph 48 states: \n\nThe Organisation of Islamic Cooperation have petitioned the \"United Nations to create global laws criminalising insults to religion\".\n\nThree United Nations Special Rapporteurs—the Special Rapporteurs on freedom of religion or belief, on the right to freedom of opinion and expression and on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance—released a joint statement during the Durban Review Conference in Geneva in 2009. They stated that: \"the difficulties in providing an objective definition of the term \"defamation of religions\" at the international level make the whole concept open to abuse. At the national level, domestic blasphemy laws can prove counter-productive, since this could result in the de facto censure of all inter-religious and intra-religious criticism. Many of these laws afford different levels of protection to different religions and have often proved to be applied in a discriminatory manner. There are numerous examples of persecution of religious minorities or dissenters, but also of atheists and non-theists, as a result of legislation on religious offences or overzealous application of laws that are fairly neutral.\"\n\nThe Rabat Plan of Action (2012) on the prohibition of advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence \"Conclusions and recommendations emanating from the four regional expert workshops organised by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), in 2011, and adopted by experts in Rabat, Morocco on 5 October 2012\" stated that: \"At the national level, blasphemy laws are counter-productive, since they may result in the de facto censure of all inter-religious/belief and intra-religious/belief dialogue, debate, and also criticism, most of which could be constructive, healthy and needed. In addition, many of these blasphemy laws afford different levels of protection to different religions and have often proved to be applied in a discriminatory manner. There are numerous examples of persecution of religious minorities or dissenters, but also of atheists and non-theists, as a result of legislation on religious offences or overzealous application of various laws that use a neutral language. Moreover, the right to freedom of religion or belief, as enshrined in relevant international legal standards, does not include the right to have a religion or a belief that is free from criticism or ridicule.\" The Plan of Action recommended that: \"States that have blasphemy laws should repeal these as such laws have a stifling impact on the enjoyment of freedom of religion or belief and healthy dialogue and debate about religion\".\n\nFrance repealed its blasphemy law in 1881, Sweden in 1970. A series of countries, especially in Europe, began repealing their blasphemy laws in the early 21st century. A systematic global campaign to abolish all blasphemy laws around the world was launched under the slogan \"End Blasphemy Laws\" by the International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU), the European Humanist Federation (EHF) and numerous coalition partners on 30 January 2015, in direct response to the \"Charlie Hebdo\" shooting on 7 January 2015. \n\nThe Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, France, which has been deliberating on the issue of blasphemy law, the resolution that blasphemy should not be a criminal offence, adopted on 29 June 2007 in the Recommendation 1805 (2007) on blasphemy, religious insults and hate speech against persons on grounds of their religion. This Recommendation set a number of guidelines for member states of the Council of Europe in view of Articles 10 (freedom of expression) and 9 (freedom of thought, conscience and religion) of the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nIn place of blasphemy or in addition to blasphemy in some European countries is the crime of \"religious insult\", which is a subset of the crime of blasphemy. , it was forbidden in Andorra, Cyprus, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Spain, Finland, Germany, Greece, Italy, Lithuania, Norway, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, the Russian Federation, Slovakia, Switzerland, Turkey and Ukraine.\n\nOn 23 October 2008, the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe's advisory body on constitutional matters, issued a report about blasphemy, religious insult, and incitement to religious hatred. The report noted that, at the time in Europe, blasphemy was an offence in Austria, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Italy, Liechtenstein, the Netherlands, and San Marino.\n\nThe common law offences of blasphemy and blasphemous libel were abolished in England and Wales in 2008 with the passage of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act. Other countries to abolish or repeal blasphemy laws include France in 1881 (except for the Alsace-Moselle region, part of Germany at the time), Sweden in 1970, Norway with Acts in 2009 and 2015, the Netherlands in 2014, Iceland in 2015, Malta in 2016, France for its Alsace-Moselle region in 2016, and Denmark in 2017. Australia abolished and repealed all blasphemy laws at the Federal Level in 1995 but blasphemy laws remain in some States and Territories. On 26 October 2018, a referendum in the Republic of Ireland resulted in the removal of the Constitutional provision and the 2009 Defamation Act provision against blasphemy, which would be implemented soon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11844419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11844419", "title": "Buma/Stemra", "text": "Buma/Stemra\n\nBUMA/STEMRA are two private organizations in the Netherlands, the Buma Association (Dutch: \"Vereniging Buma\") and the Stemra Foundation (Dutch: \"Stichting Stemra\") that operate as one single company that acts as the Dutch collecting society for composers and music publishers.\n\nThe Buma Association was set up by Dutch music authors and publishers in 1913, one year after the Dutch Copyright Act was passed. In 1936, with the arrival of the gramophone record, the replication of music multiplied. Realising its impact, the members of the Buma Association created the Stemra Foundation, which focuses on the replication of recorded works of music, ranging from LPs to CDs to Internet and mobile phones.\n\nIn 2001, Buma/Stemra sued Consumer Empowerment, then the owners of Kazaa in the Netherlands. The court ordered Kazaa's owners to take steps to prevent its users from violating copyrights or else pay a heavy fine. In October 2001 a lawsuit was filed against Consumer Empowerment by members of the music and motion picture industry in the USA. In response Consumer Empowerment sold the Kazaa application to Sharman Networks, headquartered in Australia and incorporated in Vanuatu. In late March 2002, a Dutch court of appeal reversed an earlier judgment and stated that Kazaa was not responsible for the actions of its users. Buma/Stemra lost its appeal before the Supreme Court of the Netherlands in December 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "32689793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32689793", "title": "Centre for International Law and Justice", "text": "Centre for International Law and Justice\n\nThe Centre for International Law and Justice \"(The Centre for International Law and Justice)\" is a nongovernmental, nonprofit and nonpolitical organization. The Centre for International Law and Justice (CILJ) was established in 2009, Odessa, Ukraine by the students and lecturers whose scope of interest is international law and international relations.\n\nThe Centre for International Law and Justice contributes to popularization and research in the field of international law by organizing conferences, moot courts, study visits, summer schools, seminars, forums, etc. and realization of public interest projects, sponsored by Ukrainian and foreign funds.\n\nThe Centre has its official logo and motto: \"Once it will be Justice\".\n\nThe Centre for International Law and Justice provides wide opportunities for extracurricular activities, which is connected with different branches of international law and protection of human rights in particular.\n\nDuring the seminars, the participants discuss and analyzed the leading issues and challenges of international law. At the present moment, two seminars were provided by the auspices of the CILJ: theoretical-practical seminar «International law during the epoch of globalization of criminality: challenges of the present» and a preparation seminar to the model of the International Criminal Court together with «Kreisau-Initiative Berlin e.V.».\n\nThe \"Summer School on Maritime Law: Dispute Resolution\" is a common project of the Centre and European Law Students Association, Odessa which is held in July in Odessa. After successfully passed application period, participants attend lectures on maritime law, international arbitration, carriage of good by the sea, passing custom control and other subjects, which are closely related to shipping. Together with study program, participants are welcomed to attend the Sea Port Administration or Commercial Court of Appeal and enjoy entertainment program.\n\nInternational Institutions Study Visit is a new project whose aim is to attend different international organizations, universities or law firms throughout Europe. During study visits 2010-2011 participants visited Catholic University of Lublin; International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea; Bremen University; Munster University; International Criminal Court; European Parliament; Council of Europe; European Court of Human Rights; Geneva and Vienna Headquarters of United Nations Office, Venice headquarters of UNESCO, Food and Agriculture Organization, Court of Arbitration for Sport, World Intellectual Property Organization, law firm \"Latham & Watkins\" (in Frankfurt), Bologna University, Wroclaw University etc.\n\nForum \"The Ukrainian Legal Entities Rights Protection at the European Court of Human Rights\" is held in Lviv, on the basis of Ivan Franko National University annually. In the mid of May, lawyers and students listens to the expert`s lectures about Ukrainian and international experience of protection of the legal entities` rights of the ECHR and general questions, concerning activity of the Court, application of the Court and effectiveness of its decision on the territory of Ukraine and other states. The lecturers are practical lawyers, scientists, former judges of the ECHR.\n\nPeter E. Kazanskiy International Readings on International Law are devoted to the memory of one of the most prominent international lawyers from Novorossiysk Imperial University, which was located in Odessa. The event is organized by the Department of International Law and International Relations of National University \"Odessa Law Academy\" and Centre for International Law and Justice.\n\nThe Centre for International Law and Justice administers Project “Wealth, Poverty and Life Satisfaction in Transition Societies”, which is part of the Regional Seminar for Excellence in Teaching (ReSET) within the International Higher Education Support Program (HESP) of the Open Society Institute.\n\nInternational Moot Competition on Maritime Arbitration is the maritime arbitration competition for law schools from all over the world. The purpose is to provide the law students an opportunity to develop knowledge in maritime arbitration and to develop their abilities to persuade as well as their written and oral advocacy techniques.\n\n"}
{"id": "219872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219872", "title": "Community property", "text": "Community property\n\nCommunity property is a marital property regime under which most property acquired during the marriage (except for gifts or inheritances), the \"community\", or \"communio bonorum\", is owned jointly by both spouses and is divided upon divorce, annulment, or death. Joint ownership is automatically presumed by law in the absence of specific evidence that would point to a contrary conclusion for a particular piece of property.\n\nDivision of community property may take place by item by splitting all items or by values. In some jurisdictions, such as California, a 50/50 division of community property is strictly mandated by statute so the focus then shifts to whether particular items are to be classified as community or separate property. In other jurisdictions, such as Texas, a divorce court may decree an \"equitable distribution\" of community property, which may result in an \"unequal division\" of such. In non-community property states property may be divided by equitable distribution. Generally speaking, the property that each partner brings into the marriage or receives by gift, bequest or devise during marriage is called separate property (not community property). See division of property. Division of community debts may not be the same as division of community property. For example, in California, community property is required to be divided \"equally\" while community debt is required to be divided \"equitably\".\n\nProperty owned by one spouse before the marriage is sometimes referred to as the \"separate property\" of that spouse, but there are instances in which the community can gain an interest in separate property and even situations in which separate property can be \"transmuted\" into community property. The rules vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.\n\nThe community property concept originated in civil law jurisdictions but is now also found in some common law jurisdictions. The states of the United States that recognize community property are primarily in the Western United States; it was inherited from Mexico's ganancial community system, which itself was inherited from Spanish law (a Roman-derived civil law system) and ultimately from the Visigothic Code. While under Spanish rule, Louisiana adopted the ganancial community system of acquests and gains, which replaced the traditional French community of movables and acquests in its civil law system.\n\nThe community property system is usually justified by the pragmatic recognition that such joint ownership recognizes the theoretically equal contributions of both spouses to the creation and operation of the family unit, a basic component of civil society. The countervailing majority view in most U.S. states, as well as federal law, which is based on traditional American family values and gender roles, is that marriage is a sacred compact in which a man assumes a \"deeply rooted\" \"moral\" obligation to support his wife and child, whereas community property essentially reduces marriage to an \"amoral business relationship\".\n\nIn the United States there are nine community property states: Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin. Alaska has also adopted a community property system, but it is optional. Spouses may create community property by entering into a community property agreement or by creating a community property trust. In 2010, Tennessee adopted a law similar to Alaska's and allows residents and non-residents to opt into community property through a community property trust. The commonwealth of Puerto Rico allows property to be owned as community property also as do several Native American jurisdictions. In the case of Puerto Rico, the island had been under community property law since its settlement by Spain in 1493. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that a similar statute allowing spouses to elect a community property system under Oklahoma law would not be recognized for federal income tax reporting purposes. The Harmon decision should also apply to the Alaska system for income reporting purposes.\n\nIf property is held as community property, each spouse technically owns an undivided one-half interest in the property. This type of ownership applies to most property acquired by each spouse during the course of the marriage. It generally does not apply to property acquired prior to the marriage or to property acquired by gift or inheritance during the marriage. After a divorce, community property is divided equally in some states and according to the discretion of the court in the other states.\n\nIt is extremely important to bear in mind that there are no two community property states with exactly the same laws on the subject. The statutes or judicial decisions in one state may be completely opposite to those of another state on a particular legal issue. For example, in some community property states (so-called \"American Rule\" states), income from separate property is also separate. In others (so-called \"Civil Law\" states), the income from separate property is community property. The right of a creditor to reach community property in satisfaction of a debt or other obligation incurred by one or both of the spouses also varies from state to state.\n\nCommunity property has certain federal tax implications, which the Internal Revenue Service discusses in its Publication 555. In general, community property may result in lower federal capital gain taxes after the death of one spouse when the surviving spouse then sells the property. Some states have created a newer form of community property, called \"community property with right of survivorship.\" This form of holding title has some similarities to joint tenancy with right of survivorship. The rules and effect of holding title as community property (or another form of concurrent ownership) vary from state to state.\n\nBecause community property law affects the property of all married persons in the states in which it is in effect, it can have substantial consequences upon dissolution of the marriage from the perspective of the spouse forced to share a valuable asset that he or she thought was separate property. One of the most spectacular examples of this in recent memory was the 2011 Los Angeles Dodgers ownership dispute, in which Frank McCourt paid his ex-wife Jamie McCourt about $130 million to avoid a trial over whether the Los Angeles Dodgers were actually community property after the trial court ruled that the McCourts' prenuptial agreement was invalid. Indeed, one sign of community property's importance is that the states of California, Idaho, Louisiana, and Texas have made it a mandatory subject on their bar examinations, so that \"all\" lawyers in those states will be able to educate their clients appropriately.\n\nOften a new couple acquires a family residence. If the marriage terminates in subsequent years, there can be difficult community property problems to solve. For instance, often there is a contribution of separate property; or legal title may be held in the name of one party and not the other. There may also have been an inheritance or substantial gift from the family of one of the spouses during the marriage, whose proceeds were used to buy a property or pay down a mortgage. Case law and applicable formulas vary among community property jurisdictions to apply to these and many other situations, to determine and divide community and separate property interest in such a residence and other property.\n\nCommunity property issues often arise in divorce proceedings and disputes after the death of one spouse. These disputes can often be avoided by proper estate planning during the spouses' joint lifetime. This may or may not involve probate proceedings. Property acquired before marriage is separate and belongs to the spouse who acquired it. Property acquired during marriage is presumed to belong to the community estate except if acquired by inheritance or gift, or by exchange for other separate property. This definition leads to numerous issues that can be difficult to ascertain. For instance, where a spouse owns a business when marrying, it is clearly separate at that time. But if the business grows during the marriage, then what of the additional property acquired during marriage? Do they not result from labor of the spouses? Were some of the funds that were used to pay for the property community funds while a portion of the funds were separate property?\n\nCommunity property may consist of property of all types, including real property (\"immovable property\" in civil law jurisdictions) and personal property (\"movable property\" in civil law jurisdictions) such as accounts in financial institutes, stocks, bonds, and cash.\n\nA pension or annuity may have first been acquired before a marriage. But if contributions are made with community property during marriage, then proceeds are partly separate property and partly community property. Upon divorce or death of a party to the marriage, there are rules for apportionment.\n\nOptions are also difficult to ascertain. A stock option is a right to purchase shares of a company at a fixed price. Companies with growth potential sometimes award stock options as compensation to employees, during times when there is not enough money to pay a suitable salary. By accepting a stock option for compensation, an employee invests his or her own trust in the belief that he or she will help make the company acquire a higher value. Thereafter, the employee works and contributes value to the company. If the company later acquires a higher share valuation, then the employee may \"cash in\" his options by selling them at the fair market value. The employee's trust in this future value motivates his work without immediate compensation. That effort has value. If the marriage is terminated before the shares are cashed in, then the parties must decide how to apportion the community property portion of the options. This can be difficult. Case law precedents are not yet available for all situations involving stock options.\n\nQuasi-community property is a concept recognized by some community property states. For example, in California, quasi-community property is defined by statute as\n\nall real or personal property, wherever situated, acquired before or after the operative date of this code in any of the following ways:\n\n(a) By either spouse while domiciled elsewhere which would have been community property if the spouse who acquired the property had been domiciled in this state at the time of its acquisition.\n\n(b) In exchange for real or personal property, wherever situated, which would have been community property if the spouse who acquired the property so exchanged had been domiciled in this state at the time of its acquisition.\n\nTypically, such property is treated as if it were community property at the time of divorce or death of a spouse, but in California, at least, property acquired while married and domiciled in a non-community property jurisdiction does not become community property just because the married parties move to a community property jurisdiction. It is the new event of divorce or death while domiciled in the community property state that allows that state to treat such property as quasi-community property. , only California and Arizona have such laws.\n\n"}
{"id": "529593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529593", "title": "Congress of Soviets", "text": "Congress of Soviets\n\nThe Congress of Soviets was the supreme governing body of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic and several other Soviet republics from 1917–36 and again from 1989-91. After the creation of the Soviet Union, the Congress of Soviets of the USSR functioned as its legislative branch until its dissolution during 1936. Its initial full name was the \"Congress of Soviets of Workers', Soldiers' and Peasants' Deputies. It was also known sometimes as the \"Congress of People's Deputies.\"\n\nThe Congress of Soviets was an assembly of representatives of local councils. In theory, it was the supreme power of the Soviet state, an organ of the dictatorship of the proletariat. No bourgeois, no noble, no aristocrat, no priest could vote – only working people. Officially, the Congress of Soviets created laws and elected the Council of People's Commissars, which was the government. In the interim its functions were performed by designated executive bodies, see VTsIK. In practice the Congress became increasingly deferential to the Bolsheviks after the Russian Revolution.\n\nBy the time of Lenin's death during 1924 the Congress of Soviets effectively only approved the decisions of the Communist Party and served as a propaganda assembly. The 1936 Constitution eliminated the Congress of Soviets, making the Supreme Soviet of the USSR the legislative institution. During this time the Central Committee of the AUCP(b) had de facto control of the government.\n\nThe Bolsheviks convened an All-Ukrainian Congress of Soviets of Workers', Soldiers' and Peasants' Deputies in Kiev, on December 17, 1917, and in Kharkiv on December 25, 1917 (see \"Ukraine after the Russian Revolution\").\n\n"}
{"id": "56961317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56961317", "title": "Device neutrality", "text": "Device neutrality\n\nDevice neutrality law states that the users have the right of non-discrimination of the services and apps they use, based on platform control by hardware companies.\n\nThe concept was first proposed in Italy. As per the law, the users were allowed to install the apps and services they require and remove others. The Android operating system supports installation of third party software on the devices beyond the Google Play store whereas Apple Inc. restricts the third party installation of applications.  This led to the callout of the news saying that the Senate Act 2484 had potential to ban the use of iPhones in Italy. Users are allowed to attach any device to any network service that they subscribe. Member of the Italian Parliament Stefano Quintarelli proposed a bill which states that users should have the right to use content and services irrespective of the devices.\n\nThe term device neutrality is closely connected to net neutrality, and shares a correlation. Net neutrality is a concept that ensures equal access to the internet.\n"}
{"id": "19169215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19169215", "title": "Dissent aversion", "text": "Dissent aversion\n\nDissent aversion is the judicial phenomenon that implies that judges do not like dissenting opinions in the jurisdictions where they are possible nor do they like to dissent themselves. A common example is as follows: On a panel of three judges, only one feels strongly about the decision. One of the two remaining may side with the first judge, leaving the third judge with the option of dissenting on an issue they do not feel strongly about or siding with the majority.\n\nJudges dislike dissent for many reasons. Dissent aversion can come from these sources:\n\nDissent is more frequent in US federal courts of appeals where the number of judges is higher. According to some research, this is because the larger the court, the less frequently judges must work with each other and accordingly have less incentive to extend courtesy and favors.\n\n"}
{"id": "38624406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38624406", "title": "Ecology Law Quarterly", "text": "Ecology Law Quarterly\n\nEcology Law Quarterly is an environmental law review published quarterly by students at the UC Berkeley School of Law. The journal also produces Ecology Law Currents, an online-only publication that contains \"short-form commentary and analysis on timely environmental law and policy issues.\"\n\n\"Ecology Law Quarterly\" received the United Nations Environment Programme's \"Global 500 Roll of Honour\" Award in 1990, in recognition of its environmental achievements.\n\nIn a 1998 survey of experts, \"Ecology Law Quarterly\" was ranked as the most influential environmental law review in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18817722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18817722", "title": "Email spam legislation by country", "text": "Email spam legislation by country\n\nThe following table represents laws in respective countries which restrict the use of Email spam.\n\n\"Note: Countries marked with red are listed in the Spamhaus' Worst Spam Origin Countries (January 2016).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3874440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3874440", "title": "Equity and Reconciliation Commission", "text": "Equity and Reconciliation Commission\n\nThe Equity and Reconciliation Commission (; French \"Instance Equité et Réconciliation\" - IER) is a Moroccan human rights and truth commission created on January 7, 2004 when King Mohammed VI signed a \"Dahir\" (royal decree). This truth commission was established to reconcile victims of human rights abuses, such as torture, forced disappearances and arbitrary arrests, committed by Makhzen (the governing elite) during the \"Years of lead\", with the State. It covers 1956 to 1999, spanning the reign of the two previous monarchs. The proclaimed objectives of the commission were the protection and the promotion of the human rights in Morocco. \n\nThe IER operated under a two-year mandate from 2004-2006 with a president and 16 commissioners, half of them from CCDH. The committee investigated approximately 20,000 cases, resulting in a number of recommendations to the state including: reparations (financial, psychological, medical and social), modification of the constitution, and ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC), among others. The commission distributed $85 million USD within 18 months of the commission ending.\n\nIER aimed to rehabilitate the victims, and pay compensation for state outrages against them. This has been hailed internationally as a big step forward, and an example to the Arab world. \n\nHowever, the IER has also come under attack from parts of the human rights-community, since:\n\nThe IER completed its mandate by delivering its final report to the King of Morocco in December 2005.\n\nAmnesty International has published a detailed critique of the work of the Commission and its follow-up.\n\nIn 1955, Morocco gained independence from France, becoming a free nation. It had previously been under French rule as a protectorate, placed in this position under the auspice of the Scramble for Africa in 1912. Forty-four years later, the newly independent Kingdom of Morocco began its rediscovered independence as a constitutional monarchy, headed by Sultan Mohammed V. In 1957, Mohammed V became King of Morocco, reorganizing the state to promote reform and growth, particularly in the legislature with the inclusion of representation for the indigenous population. However, King Mohammed V soon feared opposition movements and reacted by violently quelling any dissenting groups or individuals. This was the beginning of forced \"disappearances\" and arbitrary arrests. While Mohammed V only ruled for five years before his death in 1961, his son, King Hassan II came to power with an even heavier hand, that soon resulted in arbitrary rule. This period would become known as the \"Years of Lead\".\n\nAfter an opposition party won a small number of seats in the 1965 election, King Hassan II took complete control over the legislature. From this point on, forced disappearances, secret detention, arbitrary arrest, killings and forced exile of political opponents became common practices within the state. In 1975, the King repressed independent advocates located in the Western Sahara region, demonstrating the monarchy's fear of opposition movements.\n\nBy 1990, the repression began to ease in response to pressure by domestic and international communities. King Hassan II appointed an Advisory Council on Human Rights (CCDH) to confront criticisms and to review the practices of the state. The goal of the CCDH was to investigate reports of human rights abuse and to begin adherence to international standards by recommending changes to Moroccan law and practices. The Advisory Council on Human Rights did make a number of changes, ultimately leading to the creation of the Independent Arbitration Panel in 1999. This panel was established by the new King, Mohammed VI, after the death of his father King Hassan II in 1999. The panel awarded $100 million USD in reparations to almost 7, 000 recipients, but there was still a large amount of work to be completed within the state. For example, many victims were not included in the process, and the lack of transparency was greatly criticized. In 2003, the CCDH recommended that a truth commission be created to continue expanding on the work completed by the CCDH and the Independent Arbitration Panel.\n\nIn 2003, the CCDH recommended that a truth commission be created to continue expanding on the work completed by the CCDH and the Independent Arbitration Panel. As a result of these abuses between 1956 and 1999, a truth commission was created by \"Dahir\" (royal decree) in early 2004 to investigate these abuses. The \"Dahir\" outlined the mandate of the commission as well as its general structure.\n\nThe Instance Équité et Réconciliation (IER) was given less than a two-year mandate, from April 2004 until January 2006.\n\nThe ultimate goal of the commission was to look specifically into forced disappearances and arbitrary detention between 1956 and 1999. From here, the commission was to include recommendations to the King regarding monetary compensation, psychological and medical care, social reintegration, and as Article 9.6 states, \"recommend measures designed to memorialize the human rights violations, as well as to guarantee their non-repetition, remedy their effects, and restore confidence in the primacy of the law and respect for human rights.\"\n\nThe mandate of the commission was very clear in its lack of powers, both judicial and investigatory powers. The commission could not publicly name any one person of individual responsibility (except in the final report to the King), it did not have the power to subpoena or search and seizure, it had overall very limited investigatory powers, and its final recommendations were to be given to the king who would decide on how to proceed. Additionally, the IER was a strictly advisory body and the state was under no obligation to follow through with any of the recommendations made (except in the area of individual remuneration).\n\nWithin the mandate, it is specified that only forced disappearances and arbitrary detention that took place between 1956 and 1999 would be investigated.\n\nThe Instance Équité et Réconciliation (IER) was an unprecedented truth commission for many reasons. First, the decree to proceed with the proposed mandate was made by the King of Morocco, a leader who inherited his power through hereditary rule. Second, the commission would be investigating acts undertaken by the current King's (Mohammed VI) late father and late grandfather, from whom he inherited his power. Third, there had been no abrupt change in power or government (as is common in truth commissions), but merely gradual reforms over a long period of time. For example, some of the government officials who were in power during the period of abuses, were still in power during the formation of the truth commission. Additionally, when the original Advisory Council on Human Rights began in 1990, nine years before King Hassan II's death, it was an unusual action considering no drastic change in government or power. Finally, this was the first truth commission of the Arab world, and an unprecedented action within the region.\n\nThe Instance Équité et Réconciliation (IER) was composed of seventeen commissioners appointed by the King, all of them Moroccan nationals. Of the seventeen commissioners there were notable additions, including one woman and five former political prisoners, two who had been exiled. From these seventeen commissioners, eight were from the Advisory Council on Human Rights. The man who headed the commission, Driss Benzekri, was both a former political prisoner and a prominent human rights activist. Benzekri was a former member of the Marxist–Leninist group Ila al-Amam which had been outlawed by the state. In addition to the seventeen commissioners, there was a paid staff of one hundred people, mostly working in the investigations and reparations divisions.\n\nWith less than a two-year mandate, the commission worked quickly and broke into three groups: investigations (which had six commissioners), reparations (which had seven commissioners), and the study and research group (which had three commissioners). The goal of these working groups was to work efficiently and effectively in order to investigate the largest number of abuses.\n\nThe commission had an approximate total of 20,000 cases to investigate; 7,000 of those coming from the previous arbitration panel and the other 13,000 from an open call to the public for submissions at the beginning of its mandate.\n\nThe investigations included victim hearings, archival research, as well as interviewing past and present government officials. In its archival work, the IER worked with Moroccan civil society and human rights organizations in addition to victims and their families. It is reported that 10,000 people were interviewed by the Investigations Committee and approximately 40,000 pieces of correspondence concerning the investigations were received. The Commission held both public and private hearings. The private meetings were mostly composed of public officials involved in the abuses who did not want to be publicly exposed. The seven public hearings held were both welcomed by the public and criticized for the inability of victims to openly name their perpetrators (see Mandate, Criticisms). The format of the public hearings included ten victims (who were selected based on broad representation of victims) at each hearing who were given twenty minutes to speak about what they had suffered. No questions or responses were allowed and the audience could not emit any expressions of emotion.\n\nIn order to reach as large an audience as possible, the IER decided to include a series of themed seminars which were broadcast on state TV during prime time. The topics are as follows: \"Democratic Transition in Morocco,\" \"Eliminating Violence as a Means of Governing,\" \"Political, Economic, and Social Reform,\" \"Cultural and Educational Reform,\" and \"Legislative, Executive and Judiciary Reform.\"\n\nIn December 2005, the commission submitted its final report to King Mohammed VI outlining both its findings and recommendations related to the abuses that took place between 1956 and 1999. Per the original mandate, certain aspects of the commission's final report could not be made public. Therefore, upon completion of the report, the King then determined which information could be used in the publicly issued report, released one month later in January 2006. However, the IER did create an archive containing all the evidence collected in its investigations which could be used at a later date during judicial proceedings.\n\nUltimately, the commission concluded that 742 disappeared individuals had died, thus determining their fate. However, there was a lack of information on burial sites and circumstances of the disappeared persons' deaths and 66 cases were not solved. Of all the cases presented, ultimately 4,677 cases were resolved, including reparations for 3,657 victims. From the investigations, an archive of over 20,000 personal testimonies has been created.\n\nThe IER made a number of recommendations to the state, including a variety of government reforms. These included:\n\nOverall, the commission was received as a positive step towards a stronger and more democratic Morocco after a tumultuous, repressive and abusive period in its history. From the outset, the \"Dahir\" (royal decree) to begin the commission was unprecedented and very well looked upon. The quick response to implement financial reparations was received extremely well; within 18 months, the commission had distributed $85 million USD to between 9,000 and 16,000 individuals. Additionally the government began the development of a community reparations programs, which included the cooperation of 250 organizations, both governmental and non-governments. As of 2009, the government had distributed $2.57 million USD to various communities across Morocco as a part of this program. In addition, various ministries and agencies signed agreements to provide medical care and vocational training at no cost to the victims and their families.\n\nIn regards to the recommendations made towards the constitution, the King endorsed the recommendations of the commission and stated the intention for the recommendations to be included in a revised draft constitution. In 2011, a newly drafted constitution was created (largely in response to the Arab Spring), incorporating the recommended human rights, however, there remain certain restrictions in place.\n\nUltimately, the commission resulted in positive change in Morocco, including greater transparency, truth of the past abuses, and the ability for the country to begin a long healing process.\n\nWhile the commission was generally received as a positive step towards a strong and more democratic Morocco, various criticisms with the commission and its aftereffects arose.\n\nFrom the beginning, the mandate's time frame was criticized, as it only included abuses up until the death of the previous monarch. Some critics wanted post-1999 abuses to be included in the commission as well.\n\nAs stated in the mandate, the IER had no judicial powers and could not name any perpetrators. Organizations like Human Rights Watch have criticized this aspect of the truth commission and the Moroccan state more generally for ensuring judicial actions are not taken against perpetrators, no matter the crime committed. While Benzekri is quoted as noting accountability changes in the government, particularly the removal of certain officials from their posts, the public officials were not named, were not charged with any crime or action and not all officials with proven connections to the abuses were removed, due to concerns over government stability. Similar to many commissions, there is nothing stopping victims from trying to hold their perpetrators accountable through the public court system, however this is a risk for many people as judicial independence is widely questioned.\n\nThe limit placed on the definition of victim, as only those who were subjects of enforced disappearance or arbitrary detention, was also criticized. By only including two main areas of abuses, the mandate was considerably minimized and many cases were rejected due to this. In addition, compensation would be not included for abuses which were not considered systematic.\n\nAs explicitly outlined, the IER had no powers of subpoena and could not compel any cooperation. This resulted in various individuals or groups withholding crucial information, such as the documents and testimonies needed of many security service agents. Instead, the commission was informed that the king would support the commission and ensure cooperation of the authorities.\n\nThe final report did not mention Western Sahara, which was one of the most repressed regions in the state. Additionally, the commission only visited the region for a period of ten days and plans for a public hearing in the region were ultimately cancelled.\n\nSince the report's release in 2006, very few of the recommendations have been acted on, and those actions that were taken were done extremely slowly. To date, no trials have taken place and the government has yet to ratify the International Criminal Court statute.\n\n"}
{"id": "1621865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1621865", "title": "Excess profits tax", "text": "Excess profits tax\n\nIn the United States, an excess profits tax is a tax, some say excise tax, on any profit above a certain amount. A predominantly wartime fiscal instrument, the tax was designed primarily to capture wartime profits that exceeded normal peacetime profits to prevent perverse incentives for manufacturers to engage in war profiteering and warmongering.\n\nIn 1863 the Confederate congress and the state of Georgia experimented with excess profits taxes, perhaps, the first time it has happened in American history. \nIn Great Britain in World War I, the Treasury rejected proposals for a stiff capital levy, which the Labour Party wanted to use to weaken the capitalists. Instead, there was an excess profits tax, of 50 percent of profits above the normal prewar level; the rate was raised to 80 percent in 1917. Excise taxes were added on luxury imports such as automobiles, clocks and watches. There was no sales tax or value added tax at this time in Britain.\n\nThe first effective American excess profits tax was enacted in 1917, with rates graduated from 20 to 60 percent on the profits of all businesses in excess of prewar earnings but not less than 7 percent or more than 9 percent of invested capital. In 1918 a national law limited the tax to corporations and increased the rates. Concurrent with this 1918 tax, the federal government imposed, for the year 1918 only, an alternative tax, ranging up to 80 percent, with the taxpayer paying whichever was higher. In 1921 the excess profits tax was repealed despite powerful attempts to make it permanent. In 1933 and 1935 Congress enacted two mild excess profits taxes as supplements to a capital stock tax.\n\nThe crisis of World War II led Congress to pass four excess profits statutes between 1940 and 1943. The 1940 rates ranged from 25 to 50 percent and the 1941 ones from 35 to 60 percent. In 1942 a flat rate of 90 percent was adopted, with a postwar refund of 10 percent; in 1943 the rate was increased to 95 percent, with a 10 percent refund. Congress gave corporations two alternative excess profits tax credit choices: either 95 percent of average earnings for 1936–1939 or an invested capital credit, initially 8 percent of capital but later graduated from 5 to 8 percent. In 1945 Congress repealed the tax, effective 1 January 1946. The Korean War induced Congress to reimpose an excess profits tax, effective from 1 July 1950 to 31 December 1953. The tax rate was 30 percent of excess profits with the top corporate tax rate rising from 45% to 47%, a 70 percent ceiling for the combined corporation and excess profits taxes.\n\nIn 1991 some members of Congress sought unsuccessfully to pass an excess profits tax of 40 percent upon the larger oil companies as part of energy policy.\nSome social reformers have championed a peacetime use of the excess profits tax, but such proposals face strong opposition from businesses and some economists, who argue that it would create a disincentive to capital investment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6976303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6976303", "title": "Feast of the Pheasant", "text": "Feast of the Pheasant\n\nThe Feast of the Pheasant (French: Banquet du Voeu du Faisan, \"Banquet of the Oath of the Pheasant\") was a banquet given by Philip the Good, Duke of Burgundy on 17 February 1454 in Lille, now in France. Its purpose was to promote a crusade against the Turks, who had taken Constantinople the year before. The crusade never took place.\n\nThere are contemporary accounts of the banquet (notably the \"Memoirs\" of Olivier de la Marche, and the \"Chroniques\" of Mathieu d'Escouchy), which name and describe in much detail the lavish entertainments staged during the meal and various pieces of music performed at it, perhaps including Dufay's motet \"Lamentatio sanctae matris ecclesiae Constantinopolitanae\". At one point in the show, according to the chronicles, an actor dressed as a woman in white satin clothes, personifying the\nChurch of Constantinople (according to one hypothesis, played by Olivier de la Marche himself) entered the hall of the banquet riding on an elephant, led by a giant Saracen, to recite a \"complaint and lamentation in a piteous and feminine voice\" (\"commença sa complainte et lamentacion à voix piteuse et femmenine\"), requesting aid from the Knights of the Golden Fleece. It has been surmised that this was the moment when Dufay's motet would have been performed; other authors have conjectured that it was merely a moment of inspiration and that the motet was actually written later.\n\nWe are also told which music by Gilles Binchois was performed and of 24 musicians playing inside an enormous pie and a trick with a horse riding backwards. \n\nThe oath taken by the participants, the \"Vœux du faisan\" (\"oath of the pheasant\") was in the tradition of the \"bird oaths\" of Late Medieval France as popularized in the 14th century romance of the \"Voeux du paon\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1572609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1572609", "title": "Fleta", "text": "Fleta\n\nFleta is a treatise, written in Latin, with the sub-title seu Commentarius juris Anglicani, on the common law of England. The anonymous author of the book is sometimes referred to as \"Fleta\", although this is not in fact a person's name. The book acquired its common title because its preface contains a remark that it could be called \"Fleta\" as it was written in \"Fleta\": however, the meaning of this comment is unclear (see Authorship below).\n\nFrom internal evidence, the work appears to have been written in the reign of Edward I, and to have been completed shortly after the year 1290.\n\nThis book is one of those listed by Blackstone as being authoritative statements of the law at the time at which they were written. Edward Coke cites Fleta as authority in his \"Institutes\" in a number of places.\n\nThe article on \"Fleta\" in the \"Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition\" says that it \"is for the most part a poor imitation of\" \"De Legibus et Consuetudinibus Angliae\" by Henry de Bracton. O. Hood Phillips described it as an \"epitome of\" that book. G. O. Sayles was able to show that the author of \"Fleta\" had a copy of Bracton to hand, but that (like other copies) it was defective in places, and that he was obliged to make many additions and improvements of his own. The \"Oxford Dictionary of National Biography\" describes \"Fleta\" as \"updating and abridging\" Bracton.\n\nOne complete manuscript copy of this book survives from the fourteenth century. It is held by the British Library where its reference is BL, Cotton MS Julius B.viii. A few passages of this book also survive in another manuscript. This is also held by the British Library, where its reference is BL, Cotton MS Nero D.vi.\n\nBecause few copies survive, it is thought that this book was \"not widely read by medieval lawyers.\"\n\nIt has often been assumed that the statement that the book was \"written in \"Fleta\"\" means that it was written during the author's confinement in the Fleet prison. It has been conjectured that the author was one of those judges who were imprisoned for malpractices by Edward I. Noël Denholm-Young and Paul Brand have proposed as an alternative candidate one Matthew of the Exchequer, a yeoman of the royal household and lawyer, who was convicted of forgery in 1290 and committed to the Fleet for two years. However, the element \"fleet\" (meaning both \"swift\" and \"a watercourse\") is also found in other place names in England; or the name might simply refer to the swiftness or brevity of the treatise itself.\n\nThe first printed edition of \"Fleta\" was published by John Selden in 1647. It included a dissertation written by Selden, the title of which is \"Joannis Seldeni ad Fletam dissertatio\". A second edition was published, with corrections, in 1685. A new edition of the first of the six books of \"Fleta\" was published in 1735, edited by Thomas Clarke, a future Master of the Rolls: however, he published no more. The next edition appeared in France in 1776, edited by David Hoüard: this was based on the previous printed editions, and was abridged in places. All these editions are regarded, for various reasons, as imperfect.\n\nThe standard modern edition (with English translation) was edited by H. G. Richardson and G. O. Sayles, and published in three volumes by the Selden Society between 1955 and 1984. A projected fourth volume, intended to include editorial apparatus (notes and indexes), never appeared: this would have been nominally volume 1, and so the three published volumes are numbered 2–4. Volume 4 does include a 17-page \"Introduction\" by Sayles, which represents the fullest synopsis of scholarly knowledge about the work to date.\n\nThe book known as \"Britton\" was based on this book.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "590464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=590464", "title": "Freedom of Information Act (United States)", "text": "Freedom of Information Act (United States)\n\nThe Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), , is a federal freedom of information law that allows for the full or partial disclosure of previously unreleased information and documents controlled by the United States government. The Act defines agency records subject to disclosure, outlines mandatory disclosure procedures and grants nine exemptions to the statute. This amendment was signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson, despite his misgivings, on July 4, 1966, and went into effect the following year.\n\nAs indicated by its long title, FOIA was actually extracted from its original home in Section 3 of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA). Section 3 of the APA, as enacted in 1946, gave agencies broad discretion concerning the publication of governmental records. Following concerns that the provision had become more of a withholding than a disclosure mechanism, Congress amended the section in 1966 as a standalone act to implement \"a general philosophy of full agency disclosure.\" The amendment required agencies to publish their rules of procedure in the \"Federal Register\", 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(1)(C), and to make available for public inspection and copying their opinions, statements of policy, interpretations, and staff manuals and instructions that are not published in the Federal Register, § 552(a)(2). In addition, § 522(a)(3) requires every agency, \"upon any request for records which ... reasonably describes such records\" to make such records \"promptly available to any person.\" If an agency improperly withholds any documents, the district court has jurisdiction to order their production. Unlike the review of other agency action that must be upheld if supported by substantial evidence and not arbitrary or capricious, FOIA expressly places the burden \"on the agency to sustain its action,\" and directs the district courts to \"determine the matter de novo.\"\n\nThe Federal Government's Freedom of Information Act should not be confused with the different and varying Freedom of Information Acts passed by the individual states. Many of those state acts may be similar but not identical to the federal act.\n\nWith the ongoing stress on both constitutional and inherent rights of American citizens and the added assertion of government subservience to the individual, some, particularly representative John Moss, thought that it was necessary for government information to be available to the public. This push built on existing principles and protocols of government administration already in place.\n\nOthers, though—most notably President Lyndon B. Johnson—believed that certain types of unclassified government information should nonetheless remain secret. Notwithstanding the White House's opposition, Congress expanded Section 3 of the Administrative Procedure Act as a standalone measure in 1966 to further standardize the publication of government records, consistent with the belief that the people have the \"right to know\" about them. The Privacy Act of 1974 was passed as a countervailing measure to ensure the security of government documents increasingly kept on private citizens.\n\nThe FOIA was put in place shortly after the illegal unconstitutional act of Project MKUltra performed by the CIA, which most of the evidence was burned and some of the surviving documents became classified in 2001.\n\nThe act explicitly applies only to executive branch government agencies. These agencies are under several mandates to comply with public solicitation of information. Along with making public and accessible all bureaucratic and technical procedures for applying for documents from that agency, agencies are also subject to penalties for hindering the process of a petition for information. If \"agency personnel acted arbitrarily or capriciously with respect to the withholding, [a] Special Counsel shall promptly initiate a proceeding to determine whether disciplinary action is warranted against the officer or employee who was primarily responsible for the withholding.\" In this way, there is recourse for one seeking information to go to a federal court if suspicion of illegal tampering or delayed sending of records exists. However, there are nine exemptions, ranging from a withholding \"specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy\" and \"trade secrets\" to \"clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.\" The nine current exemptions to the FOIA address issues of sensitivity and personal rights. They are (as listed in Title 5 of the United States Code, section 552):\n\n\nThe Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 (at ) exempts the United States Postal Service (USPS) from disclosure of \"information of a commercial nature, including trade secrets, whether or not obtained from a person outside the Postal Service, which under good business practice would not be publicly disclosed\".\n\nThe law came about because of the determination of Congressman John E. Moss of California. Moss was the chairman of the Government Information Subcommittee. It took Moss 12 years to get the Freedom of Information Act through Congress successfully. Much of the desire for government transparency stemmed from the Department of Defense and Congressional committees evaluation of the nation's classification system in the late 1950s. They determined that the misuse of government classification of documents was causing insiders to leak documents that were marked \"confidential.\" The committee also determined that the lowest rung of the confidentiality ladder \"confidential\" should be removed. They deemed that \"secret\" and \"top secret\" covered National security adequately. The Moss Committee took it upon itself to reform confidentiality policy and implement punishments for the overuse of classification by officials and departments.\n\nThe FOIA has been changed repeatedly by both the legislative and executive branches.\n\nThe Freedom of Information Act was initially introduced as the bill in the 89th Congress. When the two-page bill was signed into law it became , but had an effective date of one year after the date of enactment, or July 4, 1967. The law set up the structure of FOIA as we know it today.\n\nThat law was initially repealed. During the period between the enactment of the act and its effective date, Title 5 of the United States Code was enacted into positive law. For reasons now unclear but which may have had to do with the way the enactment of Title 5 changed how the law being amended was supposed to be cited, the original Freedom of Information Act was replaced. A new act in (originally in the 90th Congress), repealed the original and put in its place a substantively identical law. This statute was signed on June 5, 1967, and had the same effective date as the original statute: July 4, 1967.\n\nFollowing the Watergate scandal, President Gerald R. Ford wanted to sign FOIA-strengthening amendments in the Privacy Act of 1974, but White House Chief of Staff Donald Rumsfeld and deputy Dick Cheney were concerned about leaks. Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel Antonin Scalia advised the bill was unconstitutional and even telephoned the CIA asking them to lobby a particular White House staffer. President Ford was persuaded to veto the bill on October 17, 1974, according to documents declassified in 2004. However, on November 21, the lame-duck Congress overrode President Ford's veto, giving the United States the core Freedom of Information Act still in effect today, with judicial review of executive secrecy claims.\n\nScalia remained highly critical of the 1974 amendments, writing years later that \"It is the Taj Mahal of the Doctrine of Unanticipated Consequences, the Sistine Chapel of Cost-Benefit Analysis Ignored.\" Scalia particularly disliked the availability of judicial review, decrying that if \"an agency denies a freedom of information request, shazam!—the full force of the Third Branch of the government is summoned to the wronged party's assistance.\"\n\nThese amendments that these FOIA regulate government control of documents which concern a citizen. It gives one \"(1) the right to see records about [one]self, subject to the Privacy Act's exemptions, (2) the right to amend that record if it is inaccurate, irrelevant, untimely, or incomplete, and (3) the right to sue the government for violations of the statute including permitting others to see [one's] records unless specifically permitted by the Act.\" In conjunction with the FOIA, the PA is used to further the rights of an individual gaining access to information held by the government. The Justice Department's Office of Information and Privacy and federal district courts are the two channels of appeal available to seekers of information.\n\nIn 1976, as part of the Government in the Sunshine Act, Exemption 3 of the FOIA was amended so that several exemptions were specified:\n\nBetween 1982 and 1995, President Reagan's allowed federal agencies to withhold enormous amounts of information under Exemption 1(relating to national security information), claiming it would better protect the country and strengthen national security.\n\nThe outcry from the effect that the Reagan Order had on FOIA requests was a factor in leading President Clinton to dramatically alter the criteria in 1995.\n\nThe FOIA amendments were a small part of the bipartisan Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986. Congress amended FOIA to address the fees charged by different categories of requesters and the scope of access to law enforcement and national security records. The amendments are not referenced in the congressional reports on the Act, so the floor statements provide an indication of Congressional intent.\n\nBetween 1995 and 1999, President Clinton issued executive directives (and amendments to the directives) that allowed the release of previously classified national security documents more than 25 years old and of historical interest, as part of the FOIA. This release of information allowed many previously publicly unknown details about the Cold War and other historical events to be discussed openly.\n\nThe Electronic Freedom of Information Act Amendments of 1996 (E-FOIA) stated that all agencies are required by statute to make certain types of records, created by the agency on or after November 1, 1996, available electronically. Agencies must also provide electronic reading rooms for citizens to use to have access to records. Given the large volume of records and limited resources, the amendment also extended the agencies' required response time to FOIA requests. Formerly, the response time was ten days and the amendment extended it to twenty business days.\n\nExecutive Order 13233, drafted by Alberto R. Gonzales and issued by President George W. Bush on November 1, 2001, restricted access to the records of former presidents.\n\nThis order was revoked on January 21, 2009, as part of President Barack Obama's . Public access to presidential records was restored to the original extent of five years (12 for some records) outlined in the Presidential Records Act.\n\nIn 2002, Congress passed the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003, . Within this omnibus legislation were amendments to the FOIA (pertaining mainly to intelligence agencies) entitled \"Prohibition on Compliance with Requests for Information Submitted by Foreign Governments\":\n\nIn effect, this new language precluded any covered U.S. intelligence agency from disclosing records in response to FOIA requests made by foreign governments or international governmental organizations. By its terms, it prohibits disclosure in response to requests made by such non-U.S. governmental entities either directly or through a \"representative\". This means that for any FOIA request that by its nature appears as if it might have been made by or on behalf of a non-U.S. governmental entity, a covered agency may inquire into the particular circumstances of the requester in order to properly implement this new FOIA provision.\n\nThe agencies affected by this amendment are those that are part of, or contain \"an element of\", the \"intelligence community\". As defined in the National Security Act of 1947 (as amended), they consist of the CIA, the National Security Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National Imagery and Mapping Agency, the National Reconnaissance Office (and certain other reconnaissance offices within the Department of Defense), the intelligence elements of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps, the FBI, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Energy, and the Coast Guard, the Department of Homeland Security, the Bureau of Intelligence and Research in the Department of State, and \"such other elements of any other department or agency as may be designated by the President, or designated jointly by the Director of Central Intelligence and the head of the department or agency concerned, as an element of the intelligence community\".\n\nPresident Bush signed the Openness Promotes Effectiveness in our National Government Act of 2007, , on December 31, 2007. This law, also known as the \"OPEN Government Act of 2007\", amended the federal FOIA statute in several ways. According to a White House press release, it does so by:\n\nChanges include the following:\n\nOn December 29, 2009, President Barack Obama issued Executive Order 13526, which allows the government to classify certain specific types of information relevant to national security after it has been requested. That is, a request for information that meets the criteria for availability under FOIA can still be denied if the government determines that the information should have been classified, and unavailable. It also sets a timeline for automatic declassification of old information that is not specifically identified as requiring continued secrecy.\n\nThe Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, signed into law in July 2010, included provisions in section 929I that shielded the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from requests under the Freedom of Information Act. The provisions were initially motivated out of concern that the FOIA would hinder SEC investigations that involved trade secrets of financial companies, including \"watch lists\" they gathered about other companies, trading records of investment managers, and \"trading algorithms\" used by investment firms.\n\nIn September 2010, the 111th Congress passed an act repealing those provisions. The act was introduced in the Senate on August 5, 2010 as S.3717 and given the name \"A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment Company Act of 1940, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 to provide for certain disclosures under section 552 of title 5, United States Code, (commonly referred to as the Freedom of Information Act), and for other purposes.\"\n\nA major issue in released documentation is government \"redaction\" of certain passages deemed applicable to the Exemption section of the FOIA. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) officers in charge of responding to FOIA requests \"so heavily redacted the released records as to preclude needed research.\" This has also brought into question just how one can verify that they have been given complete records in response to a request.\n\nThis trend of unwillingness to release records was especially evident in the process of making public the FBI files on J. Edgar Hoover. Of the 164 files and about eighteen thousand pages collected by the FBI, two-thirds were withheld from Athan G. Theoharis and plaintiff, most notably one entire folder entitled the \"White House Security Survey.\" Despite finding out that the Truman Library had an accessible file which documented all the reports of this folder, the FBI and Office of Information and Privacy put forth \"stony resistance\" to the FOIA appeal process. (I–pg. 27) Some argue that it was not even this sixteen year series of three appeals to the Justice Department which gained a further opening of the files, but rather the case of \"Department of Justice v. Landano\" which spurred on a break in stolid FBI opposition.\n\nA murder trial decided in 1993, \"Department of Justice v. Landano\", , involved what was alleged to be a felony murder committed during a group burglary by defendant Landano. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote the unanimous opinion. \"In an effort to support his claim in subsequent state court proceedings that the prosecution violated \"Brady v. Maryland\", , by withholding material exculpatory evidence, he filed Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests with the FBI for information it had compiled in connection with the murder investigation.\"\n\nIn defense, the FBI put forth a claim that the redacted sections of the documents requested were withheld in accordance with FOIA regulations protecting the identity of informants who gave information regarding case details. However, O'Connor ruled that those who supplied information had no need to remain anonymous in the court setting. \"To the extent that the Government's proof may compromise legitimate interests, the Government still can attempt to meet its burden with in camera affidavits.\" The court thus remanded the case to the Circuit Courts and rejected the FBI's claim of confidentiality as being a valid reason to withhold information.\n\n\"While most individual sources may expect confidentiality, the Government offers no explanation, other than administrative ease, why that expectation always should be presumed.\" Thus, when Theoharis and company were in the middle of fighting in court to obtain J. Edgar Hoover files, they may well have benefited from \"Landano\" and also Janet Reno's assertions of the government's need for \"greater openness\" and \"discretionary releases\" in 1993.\n\nIn the case of \"Scott Armstrong v. Executive Office of the President, et al.\", the White House used the PROFS computer communications software. With encryption designed for secure messaging, PROFS notes concerning the Iran–Contra affair (arms-for-hostages) under the Reagan Administration were insulated. However, they were also backed up and transferred to paper memos. The National Security Council, on the eve of President George H.W. Bush's inauguration, planned to destroy these records. The National Security Archive, Armstrong's association for the preservation of government historical documents, obtained an injunction in Federal District Court against the head, John Fawcett, of the National Archives and Records Administration and the National Security Council's purging of PROFS records. A Temporary Restraining Order was approved by Senior U.S. District Court Judge Barrington D. Parker. Suit was filed at District Court under Judge Richey, who upheld the injunction of PROFS records.\n\nRichey gave a further injunction to prevent a purging of the George H.W. Bush's administration's records as well. On counts of leaving the White House clean for the new Clinton Administration, the Bush group appealed but was denied its request. Finally, the Clinton Administration appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals, stating that the National Security Council was not truly an agency but a group of aides to the President and thus not subject to FOIA regulations. Under the Presidential Records Act, \"FOIA requests for NSC [could] not be filed until five years after the president ha[d] left office ... or twelve years if the records [were] classified.\" The Clinton administration won, and the National Security Archive was not granted a writ of certiorari by the Supreme Court on these grounds. According to Scott Armstrong, taking into account labor and material costs, the three presidential administrations spent almost $9.3 million on contesting the National Security Archive FOIA requests for PROFS e-mail records.\n\nThe AP uncovered several federal agencies where staff regularly use fictitious identities and secret or unlisted email accounts to conduct government business. Their use stymied FOIA requests. In some cases, the government demanded enormous (>$1 million) fees for records that appeals show should be available for minimal cost.\n\nThe Center for Effective Government analyzed 15 federal agencies which receive the most FOIA requests in-depth. It concluded, that federal agencies are struggling to implement public disclosure rules.\n\nIn the latest analysis published in 2015 (using 2012 and 2013 data, the most recent years available) ten of the 15 did not earn satisfactory overall grades, scoring less than 70 out of a possible 100 points. Eight of the ten earned Ds, including the Department of Homeland Security (69 percent), Department of Transportation (68 percent), United States Department of the Treasury (Treasury) (68 percent), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (67 percent), the United States Department of Labor (63 percent), the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (64 percent), the United States Department of Defense (61 percent), the Securities and Exchange Commission (61 percent). The Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of State earned an F. The State Department's score (37 percent) was dismal due to its extremely low processing score of 23 percent, which was completely out of line with any other agency's performance. Scores of five agencies, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Department of Health and Human Services, the SEC, the DOJ, and the EPA, even decreased marginally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44674798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44674798", "title": "Google tax", "text": "Google tax\n\n'Google tax' is a popular term used to refer to anti-avoidance provisions that have been passed in several jurisdictions dealing with profits or royalties that have been diverted to other jurisdictions with lower or nil rates.\n\nThe UK and Australia measures took effect in advance of the Base erosion and profit shifting measures being considered at recent G20 summits.\n\nEffective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2015, the \"Finance Act 2015\" imposes a levy on company profitsexcluding those of small and medium-sized enterprisesthat are routed via \"contrived arrangements\" to tax havens. The arrangements can concern either those that involve entities or transactions lacking economic substance, or efforts by a non-UK company to avoid a UK taxable presence. Companies that determine that they are subject to the tax have a statutory duty to notify Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs of that fact within three months after the end of the accounting period in question.\n\nThe UK tax is set at 25% of taxable diverted profits (or 55% with respect to ring fence profits), and will raise about £350m annually by 2017–18, according to UK Treasury estimates.\n\nThe Confederation of British Industry (CBI) described the effort to impose taxation on diverted profits as \"a real concern for global business\". Chas Roy-Chowdhury, head of taxation at the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), said, \"It's a bit like reporting yourself to the police and then having to defend yourself.\"\n\nAmazon announced in May 2015 that it will start paying tax in the UK on British retail sales rather than booking sales through Luxembourg, this will mean the group will not have to pay the diverted profit tax.\n\nThe term has similarly been applied to the \"Tax Laws Amendment (Combating Multinational Tax Avoidance) Act 2015\" introduced in the May 2015 budget, which received Royal assent in December 2015. The provisions came into effect on 1 January 2016 \"in connection with a scheme, whether or not the scheme was entered into, or was commenced to be carried out, before that day. \"\n\nThe Australian measures focus on arrangements that attempt to avoid establishing a permanent establishment presence in Australia. While they were originally intended to target a group of thirty large multinational corporations, other taxpayers will still need to document whether they would be subject to the provisions, as the Australian Taxation Office would have the power to assess an administrative penalty of 100% of any calculated shortfall of tax owed, together with base tax and interest.\n\nIn the 2016 Australian federal budget, the government announced the introduction of a diverted profits tax (DPT) from 1 July 2017. The \"Diverted Profits Tax Act 2017\" imposes a 40 percent tax on avoidance schemes entered into by significant global entities (SGEs), which are defined as global parent entities with an annual global income of A$1 billion or more.\n\nThe term has also been used to refer to a tax in Spain, introduced in 2014, that imposes a royalty charge on Google when its news site, Google News, uses material belonging to a Spanish publisher. Google's response was to cease collating such articles on Google News.\n\n"}
{"id": "36394024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36394024", "title": "Henry Martyn Noel", "text": "Henry Martyn Noel\n\nHenry Martyn Noel, Jr. was a former American citizen who moved to Allied-occupied Germany in the aftermath of World War II and voluntarily made himself stateless in order to protest \"a climax of nationalism\" he saw rising around him in the United States. His actions inspired Garry Davis to follow a similar course.\n\nNoel was born to parents Henry Martyn Noel, Sr. and Dorothy (née Lawson) Noel. Henry Noel, Sr. was a native of Missouri, and served with the 103rd Infantry Division in World War I. He later became a chemical engineer at Standard Oil's Bayway Refinery in Elizabeth, New Jersey. In 1922 he married Lawson, a niece of financier Thomas W. Lawson. Noel's family was well-off, and Noel grew up in a life of privilege. He was raised mostly in Princeton, New Jersey, but as a young boy also spent several years in France. He attended Harvard University beginning in 1940, where he studied philosophy. His major influences there included professors such as Alfred North Whitehead and Raphael Demos. However, after the outbreak of World War II, Noel and his friends became increasingly disturbed over what was happening in the world; Noel's unease culminated with his withdrawal from the school in 1943.\n\nAfter his withdrawal, Noel, unable to enlist in the Army due to his poor eyesight, joined the American Field Service as an ambulance driver, in which capacity he served in India and Italy. Noel came to Germany in September 1947 after working for the U.S. Aid to France Commission in France. He found work with a German construction firm at Kassel. He earned a wage of 25 marks per week, and lived in a tiny room with no electricity. He subsisted on German rations of 1550 calories per day. In February 1948, he renounced his U.S. citizenship. By October, he had successfully integrated into his new home, and stated he felt \"accepted\" by the community there. However the following month, Noel was arrested by the French army in Neustadt, Baden.\n\n\"The Montreal Gazette\" described Noel's action as \"a gesture bound to be in vain ... his personal error is in supposing that an individual protest of this nature can be effective\". Paul Gallico described Noel as part of a trend of \"youthful U.S. citizens with bleeding hearts who renounce family ties, our way of life, and depart these shores to snuggle up to a gang of brutes\". In contrast, \"The Christian Science Monitor\" wrote a largely supportive editorial. Garry Davis also described Noel as one of his inspirations for his own renunciation of citizenship and subsequent creation of the World Service Authority. Soon after Noel and Davis' renunciations, Arthur W. Taylor, a black American from Chicago, also renounced his citizenship at the United States Embassy in Paris, making him the third former American to become stateless that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "55604987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55604987", "title": "Human rights and encryption", "text": "Human rights and encryption\n\nHuman rights applied to encryption is an important concept for freedom of expression as encryption is a technical resource of implementation of basic human rights.\n\nWith the evolution of the digital age, application of freedom of speech becomes more controversial as new means of communication and restrictions arise including government control or commercial methods putting personal information to danger. From a human rights perspective, there is a growing awareness that encryption is an important piece of the puzzle for realizing a free, open and trustworthy Internet.\n\nHuman rights are moral principles or norms that describe certain standards of human behavior, and are regularly protected as legal rights in municipal and international law. They are commonly understood as inalienable fundamental rights \"to which a person is inherently entitled simply because she or he is a human being\", and which are \"inherent in all human beings\" regardless of their nation, location, language, religion, ethnic origin or any other status. They are applicable everywhere and at every time in the sense of being universal, and they are egalitarian in the sense of being the same for everyone.\n\nCryptography is a long-standing subject in the field of mathematics, computer science and engineering. It can generally be defined as \"the protection of information and computation using mathematical techniques.\" In the OECD Guidelines, Encryption and cryptography are defined as follows: \"Encryption\" means the transformation of data by the use of cryptography to produce unintelligible data (encrypted data) to ensure its confidentiality. Cryptography\" means the discipline which embodies principles, means, and methods for the transformation of data in order to hide its information content, establish its authenticity, prevent its undetected modification, prevent its repudiation, and/or prevent its unauthorized use. encryption and cryptography are \"often used synonymously, although \"cryptographic\" has a broader technical meaning. For example, a digital signature is \"cryptographic\" but arguably it is not technically \"encryption\"\".\n\nThe human rights aspects related to the availability and use of a technology of particular significance for the field of information and communication is recognised in many places. Freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). Article 19 of the UDHR states that \"everyone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference\" and \"everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression; this right shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice\".\n\nSince the 1970s, the availability of digital computing and the invention of public key cryptography has made encryption more widely available. Previously, strong versions of encryption were the domain of nation state actors. However, since the year 2000, cryptographic techniques have been widely deployed by a variety of actors to ensure personal, commercial and public sector protection of information and communication. Cryptographic techniques are also used to protect anonymity of communicating actors and protecting privacy more generally. The availability and use of encryption continues to lead to complex, important and highly contentious legal policy debates. There are government statements and proposals on the need to curtail such usage and deployment in view of the potential hurdles it could present for access by government agencies. The rise of commercial services offering end-to-end encryption and the calls for restrictions and solutions in view of law enforcement access are pushing towards more and more debates around the use of encryption and the legal status of the deployment of cryptography more generally.\n\nEncryption, as defined above, refers to a subset of cryptographic techniques for the protection of information and computation. The normative value of encryption, however, is not fixed but varies with the type of cryptographic method that is used or deployed and for which purposes. Traditionally, encryption (cypher) techniques were used to ensure the confidentiality of communications and prevent access to information and communications by others than intended recipients. Cryptography can also ensure the authenticity of communicating parties and the integrity of communications contents, providing a key ingredient for enabling trust in the digital environment.\n\nThere is a growing awareness within human rights that encryption plays an important role in realizing a free, open and trustworthy Internet. UN Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression David Kaye observed, during the Human Rights Council in June 2015, that encryption and anonymity deserve a protected status under the rights to privacy and freedom of expression:\n\n\"Encryption and anonymity, today's leading vehicles for online security, provide individuals with a means to protect their privacy, empowering them to browse, read, develop and share opinions and information without interference and enabling journalists, civil society organizations, members of ethnic or religious groups, those persecuted because of their sexual orientation or gender identity, activists, scholars, artists and others to exercise the rights to freedom of opinion and expression.\"\n\nTwo types of encryption in media and communication can be distinguished:\n\nAmongst the most widely deployed cryptographic techniques is securing the communications channel between internet users and specific service providers from man-in-the-middle attacks, access by unauthorized third parties. These cryptographic techniques must be run jointly by a user and the service provider to work. This means that they require service providers, such as an online news publisher or a social network, to actively integrate them into service design and implementation. Users cannot deploy these techniques unilaterally; their deployment is contingent on active participation by the service provider. The TLS protocol, which becomes visible to the normal internet user through the HTTPS header, is widely used for securing online commerce, e-government services and health applications as well as devices that make up networked infrastructures, e.g., routers, cameras. However, although the standard has been around since 1990, the wider spread and evolution of the technology has been slow. As with other cryptographic methods and protocols, the practical challenges related to proper, secure and (wider) deployment are significant and have to be considered. Many service providers still do not implement TLS or do not implement it well.\n\nIn the context of wireless communications, the use of cryptographic techniques that protect communications from third parties are also important. Different standards have been developed to protect wireless communications: 2G, 3G and 4G standards for communication between mobile phones, base stations and base stations controllers; standards to protect communications between mobile devices and wireless routers ('WLAN'); and standards for local computer networks. One common weakness in these designs is that the transmission points of the wireless communication can access all communications e.g., the telecommunications provider. This vulnerability is exacerbated when wireless protocols only authenticate user devices, but not the wireless access point.\n\nWhether the data is stored on a device, or on a local server as in the cloud, there is also a distinction between 'at rest'. Given the vulnerability of cellphones to theft for instance, particular attention may be given to limiting service provided access. This does not exclude the situation that the service provider discloses this information to third parties like other commercial entities or governments. The user needs to trust the service provider to act in its interests. The possibility that a service provider is legally compelled to hand over user information or to interfere with particular communications with particular users, remains.\n\nThere are services that specifically market themselves with claims not to have access to the content of their users' communication. Service Providers can also take measures that restrict their ability to access information and communication, further increasing the protection of users against access to their information and communications. The integrity of these Privacy Enhancing Technologies (PETs), depends on delicate design decisions as well as the willingness of the service provider to be transparent and accountable. For many of these services, the service provider may offer some additional features (besides the ability to communicate), for example contact list management—meaning that they can observe who is communicating with whom—but take technical measures so that they cannot read the contents of the messages. This has potentially negative implications for users, for instance, since the service provider has to take action to connect users who want to communicate using the service, it will also have the power to prevent users from communicating in the first place.\n\nFollowing the discovery of vulnerabilities, there is a growing awareness that there needs to be more investment in the auditing of widely used code coming out of the free and open software community. The pervasiveness of business models that depend on collection and processing of user data can be an obstacle for adopting cryptographic mechanisms for protecting information at rest. As Bruce Schneier, has stated:\n\n\"[s]urveillance is the business model of the Internet. This has evolved into a shockingly extensive, robust, and profitable surveillance architecture. You are being tracked pretty much everywhere you go on the Internet, by many companies and data brokers: ten different companies on one site, a dozen on another.\" Cryptographic methods play a key role in online identity management.\n\nDigital credential systems can be used to allow anonymous yet authenticated and accountable transactions between users and service providers, and can be used to build privacy preserving identity management systems.\n\nThe Internet allows end-users to develop applications and uses of the network without having to coordinate with the relevant internet service providers. Many of the available encryption tools are not developed or offered by traditional service providers or organizations but by experts in the free and open software (FOSS) and Internet engineering communities. A major focus of these initiatives is to produce Privacy Enhancing Technologies (PETs) that can be unilaterally or collaboratively deployed by interested users who are ready, willing, and able to look after their own privacy interests when interacting with service providers. These PETs include standalone encryption applications as well as browser add-ons that help maintain the confidentiality of web-based communications or permit anonymous access to online services. Technologies such as keystroke loggers can intercept content as it is entered before encryption is applied, thereby falling short of offering protection. Hacking into information systems and devices to access data at or after the moment of decryption may have the same effect.\n\nMulti-party computation (MPC) techniques are an example of Collaboration|collaborative solutions that allow parties, e.g. NGOs with sensitive data, to do data analytics without revealing their datasets to each other. All of these designs leverage encryption to provide privacy and security assurances in the absence of a trustworthy centralized authority.\n\nThere are many developments in the implementations of crypto-currencies using blockchain protocols. These systems can have many benefits and these protocols can also be useful for novel forms of contracts and electronic attestation, useful aids when legal infrastructure are not readily available. As to the protection of privacy related to payments, it is a common misconception that the cryptographic techniques that are used in Bitcoin ensure anonymous payments. The only protection offered by Bitcoin is pseudonymity.\n\nThe availability of metadata (the information relating to a user's information and communications behavior) can pose a particular threat to users including information that can be observed by service providers through the provisioning of services: when, how frequently, how long, and with whom users are communicating. Metadata can also be used to track people geographically and can interfere with their ability to communicate anonymously. As noted by the Berkman Center report, metadata is generally not encrypted in ways that make it inaccessible for governments, and accordingly \"provides an enormous amount of surveillance data that was unavailable before [internet communication technologies] became widespread.\" In order to minimize exposure of meaningful metadata, encryption tools may need to be used in combination with technologies that provide communication anonymity.\nThe Onion Router, most commonly known as Tor, offers the ability to access websites and online services anonymously. Tor requires a community of volunteers to run intermediary proxies which channel a user's communication with a website so that third parties cannot observe who the user is communicating with. Through the use of encryption, each proxy is only aware of part of the communication path meaning that none of the proxies can by itself infer both the user and the website she is visiting. Besides protecting anonymity, Tor is also useful when the user's ISP blocks access to content. This is similar as the protection that can be offered by a VPN. Service providers, such as websites, can block connections that come from the Tor network. Because certain malicious traffic may reach service providers as Tor traffic and because Tor traffic may also interfere with the business models, service providers may have an incentive to do so. This interference can prevent users from using the most effective means to protect their anonymity online. The Tor browser allows users to obfuscate the origin and end-points of their communications when they communicate on the internet.\n\nObfuscation, the automated generation of \"fake\" signals that are indistinguishable from users' actual online activities, providing users with a noisy \"cover\" under which their real information and communication behavior remains unobservable. Obfuscation has received more attention as a method to protect users online recently. TrackMeNot is an obfuscation tool for search engine users: the plugin sends fake search queries to the search engine, affecting the ability of the search engine provider to build an accurate profile of the user. Although TrackMeNot and other search obfuscation tools have been found to be vulnerable to certain attacks that allow search engines to distinguish between user-generated and computer-generated queries, further advances in obfuscation are likely to play a positive role in protecting users when disclosure of information is inevitable, as in the case of search or location-based services.\n\nRecent incidents of terrorism have led to further calls for restrictions on encryption. Even though, in the interest of public safety, there are many proposals to interfere with the free deployment of strong encryption, these proposals do not hold against close scientific scrutiny. These proposals side-step a more fundamental point, related to what is at stake for users. More advanced security measures seem necessary for governments, considering the existing threat landscape for users of digital communications and computing.\n\nWhile many governments consider that encryption techniques could present a hurdle in the investigation of crime and the protection of national security, certain countries, such as Germany or the Netherlands have taken a strong position against restrictions on encryption on the Internet. In 2016, the Ministers of the Interior of France and Germany have jointly stated the need to work on solutions for the challenges law enforcement can face as a result of end-to-end encryption, in particular when offered from a foreign jurisdiction. In a joint statement, the European Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA) and Europol have also taken a stance against the introduction of backdoors in encryption products. In addition, restrictions would have serious detrimental effects on cyber security, trade and e-commerce.\n\nPrivacy and data protection legislation is closely related to the protection of human rights. There are now more than 100 countries with data protection laws. One of the key principles for the fair and lawful processing of personal information regulated by data protection laws is the principle of security. This principle implies that proper security measures are taken to ensure the protection of personal data against unlawful access by others than intended recipients. The European Union General Data Protection Regulation, which was adopted in 2016 and will enter in to force in 2018, contains an advanced set of rules with respect to the security of personal data.\n\nEncryption can be a safeguard against personal data breaches for the UN, as it can facilitate the implementation of privacy and data protection by design. Cryptography has also been an essential ingredient for establishing the conditions for e-Commerce over the Internet. The OECD Principles were adopted to ensure that national cryptography policy would not interfere with trade and to ensure the conditions for international developments in e-Commerce.\n\nThe policy debate about encryption has a significant international dimension because of the international nature of the communications networks and the Internet as well as trade, globalization and the national security dimensions. The OECD adopted a Recommendation Concerning Guidelines for Cryptography Policy on 27 March 1997. There are three components to this policy intervention of the OECD, which is primarily aimed at its Member Countries: a recommendation of the OECD Council, Guidelines for Cryptography Policy (as an Annex to the Recommendation) and a Report on Background and Issues of Cryptography Policy to explain the context for the Guidelines and the basic issues involved in the cryptography law and policy debate. The Principle most explicit about the connection to human rights is Principle 5 on the Protection of Privacy and Personal Data: \"The fundamental rights of individuals to privacy, including secrecy of communications and protection of personal data, should be respected in national cryptography policies and in the implementation and use of cryptographic methods.\"\n\nUNESCO, after consulting stakeholders, identified encryption as a relevant element for policy on privacy and freedom of expression. The Keystones Report (2015) articulates that \"\"to the extent that our data can be considered representative of ourselves, encryption has a role to play in protecting who we are, and in preventing abuse of user content. It also allows for greater protection of privacy and anonymity in transit by ensuring that the contents (and sometimes also the metadata) of communications are only seen by the intended recipient.\"\" The report recognizes \"the role that anonymity and encryption can play as enablers of privacy protection and freedom of expression\", and proposes that UNESCO facilitate dialogue on these issues.\n\nThe Necessary and Proportionate Principles developed and adopted by civil society actors stipulates the protection of the integrity of communications systems as one of its 13 principles. The principles themselves do not provide for explicit guidance on specific cryptographic policy issues such as backdoors or restrictions on the deployment of encryption. The guidance that is offered by the OECD principles and the recent positions of the UN Rapporteur on Encryption state the importance of encryption for the protection of human rights. While it does not give a definitive answer to the question of whether a mandate for encryption backdoors is to be considered incompatible with international law, it does point in that direction. Generally, the available guidance at the international level clarifies that when limitations are imposed on encryption, relevant human rights guarantees have to be strictly observed.\n\nThere has been a broad, active and contentious policy debate on encryption in the USA since the 1990s beginning with the 'Crypto Wars'. This involved the adoption of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA), containing requirements for telecommunications providers and equipment manufacturers to ensure the possibility of effective wiretapping. It also involved a debate over existing export controls on strong encryption products (considering their classification as munition) and a criminal investigation into cryptographic email software developer and activist Phil Zimmermann. The case was dropped and the general debate resolved after the liberalization of export controls on most commercial products with strong encryption features and the transfer of these items from the U.S.A. Munitions List (USML), administered by the Department of State, to the Commerce Control List (CCL), administered by the Department of Commerce. The USA Department of Commerce maintains some controls over items on the CCL, including registration, technical reviews and reporting obligations, and continues to impose licensing and other requirements for sensitive encryption items and sales of such items to foreign governments.\n\nThe debate ignited after the Edward Snowden revelations and the well-documented increase in deployed encryption measures by Internet services, device makers and users, as well as a concerted call from the technical community and civil society to increase encryption use and security to address mass surveillance practices. The increased adoption of encryption by the industry has been received critically by certain government actors, the FBI in particular. This led to the widely reported FBI–Apple encryption dispute over the possibility to gain access to information on the iPhone in assistance to law enforcement. In 2016, several bills were introduced in the US Congress that would place new limits encryption under USA law. The USA's legal system promotes and requires security measures to be implemented in the relevant contexts, including cryptographic methods of various kinds, to ensure security in commerce and trade. Relevant laws are the Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) of 2014, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and also the Federal Trade Commission Act. These acts contain security requirements and thereby indirectly require or stimulate the use of encryption in certain circumstances. Finally, many state breach notification laws treat encrypted data as a safe harbor by exempting firms that have encrypted data from notice obligations.\n\nConstitutional considerations and human rights play a role of significance in the USA debate about the legal treatment of encryption methods. Restrictions on distribution of cryptographic protocols, and the publication of cryptographic methods are considered an interference with the First Amendment, the USA constitutional safeguard protecting freedom of expression. The USA has particularly active and strongly developed civil society actors involved in cryptographic policy and practice.\n\nThe United States of America is a primary site for cryptology research and engineering, development and implementation of cryptographic service innovations. There is an active community of Non-Governmental Organizations engaged in the national and international debate on encryption policy. The predominant interferences with strong encryption that take place or are being considered take place in the field of national security, law enforcement and foreign affairs. In this area and in answering the contentious question of whether and how lawful access to specific communications could be ensured, the US Government has internationally explained its policy as one aiming to ensure that 'responsibly deployed encryption' helps to \"\"secure many aspects of our daily lives, including our private communications and commerce\",\" but also \"to ensure that malicious actors can be held to account without weakening our commitment to strong encryption\".\n\nAs part of the global debate on encryption in the late 1990s, a debate also took place in Germany about the need and legitimacy of imposing a general ban on the encryption of communications because of the impact on criminal investigations. There were profound doubts concerning the constitutional legitimacy as well as concerns about negative factual consequences of such a ban. In qualitative terms, a number of fundamental rights are considered to be affected by restrictions on encryption: the secrecy of telecommunications, expressions of the general right of personality and, indirectly, all communicative freedoms that are exercisable over the Internet. The Federal Government set key points in 1999 for the German cryptographic policy which should especially provide confidence in the security of encryption instead of restricting it. Besides the statements of the German Minister of the Interior towards possible future restrictions, Germany aligns with the position of the UN Special Rapporteur David Kaye and adopts policies of non-restriction or comprehensive protection and only adopts restrictions on a case-specific basis. In November 2015 governmental representatives as well as representatives of the private sector signed a \"Charter to strengthen the trusted communication \"(Charta zur Stärkung der vertrauenswürdigen Kommunikation) together, in which they stated: \"We want to be Encryption Site No. 1 in the world\". The German government has also used its foreign policy to promote international privacy standards. In particular, Germany, in a joint effort with Brazil, committed itself in the Human Rights Council for the appointment of an UN Special Rapporteur on Privacy. There are multiple examples of how there have been efforts by the government to implement encryption policy. They range from informal actions, to laws and regulations: The IT Security Act in 2015, the 'De-Mail' law. There are also several sector-specific rules for encryption and information security in Germany, like the Telecommunications Act (TKG). The German Constitutional Court has also provided valuable input for the international legal handling of encryption techniques with the IT basic right, with which, the constitutional court recognizes that parts of one's personality go into IT systems and therefore the applied protection has to travel with it.\n\nThere are a number of limitations on the free deployment of encryption by electronic communications services despite the fact that Indian law and policy promotes and requires the implementation of strong encryption as a security measure, such as in banking, ecommerce and by organizations handling sensitive personal information. There is notable legal uncertainty about the precise legal scope of these license requirements and to what extent they could have legal effect on (the use of or deployment of ) services by the end-users of covered services. The encryption debate ignited publicly in India in 2008 after the Government published a draft proposal with a number of envisioned limitations on the use of encryption. The policy, issued under Section 84A of the Indian Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008 was short-lived, but worries remain about the lack of safeguards for privacy and freedom of expression that the draft illustrated. In response to the outcry, the Indian government first exempted \"mass use encryption products, which are currently being used in web applications, social media sites, and social media applications such as Whatsapp, Facebook, Twitter etc.\" Soon thereafter, it withdrew the proposed policy and a new policy has not been made public yet.\n\nSection 84A of the Indian Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008 empowers the government to formulate rules on modes of encryption for the electronic medium. Legal commentators have noted the lack of transparency about what types of encryption use and deployment are permitted and required under Indian law, especially in the field of electronic communications services. Thus, the Central Indian Government has, in theory, a broad exclusive monopoly over electronic communications which includes the privilege to provide telecommunication and Internet services in India.\n\nAfter the Edward Snowden revelations in 2013, Brazil was at the forefront of a global coalition promoting the right to privacy at the UN and condemning USA mass surveillance. In recent events, Brazil has demonstrated diverse aims when it comes to the use and implementation of encryption. On the one side, the country is a leader in providing a legal framework of rules for the Internet. But it has also taken several measures that may be seen to restrict the dissemination of encryption technology. In 2015, in a process that was open for public comments and discussions, Brazil's legislator drafted a new privacy bill (\"proteção de dados pessoais\"), which was sent to Brazil's Federal Congress on 13 May 2016 and came into force as Bill 5276 of 2016. It regulates and protects personal data and privacy, including online practices and includes provisions for more secure methods such as encryption on the treatment of personal data. The law also addresses security issues and a duty for companies to report any attacks and security breaches. With the Marco Civil (2014), that introduces principles like neutrality, the Brazilian Civil Rights Framework for the Internet, Brazil was one of the first countries to ever introduce a law, that aims at combining all Internet rules in one bundle. Brazil has a well-established e-government model: The Brazilian Public Key Infrastructure (Infraestrutura de Chaves Públicas Brasileira – ICP-Brasil). Since 2010 ICP-Brasil certificates can be partly integrated in Brazilian IDs, which can then be used for several services like tax revenue service, judicial services or bank related services. In practice, the ICP-Brasil digital certificate acts as a virtual identity that enables secure and unique identification of the author of a message or transaction made in an electronic medium such as the web. Brazilian courts have taken a stance against encryption in private messaging services by repeatedly ordering the blocking of the messaging service WhatsApp. Since it switched to a full end-to-end encryption, the service has been periodically blocked as a result of a court order in an attempt to make the company comply with demands for information.\n\nThe African (Banjul) Charter on Human and People's Rights, was adopted in the context of the African Union in 1981. A Protocol to the Charter, establishing the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights was adopted in 1998 and came into effect in 2005. In the area of information policy, the African Union has adopted the African Union Convention on Cyber Security and Personal Data Protection. The provisions on personal data protection in this Convention generally follow the European model for the protection of data privacy and contains a number of provisions on the security of personal data processing. A civil society initiative has adopted a specific African Declaration on Internet Rights and Freedoms \"to help shape approaches to Internet policy-making and governance across the continent\".\n\nDifferent countries in the North-African region have not seen a significant rise in legal actions aiming at the suppression of encryption in the transformations that started in 2011. Although legislation often dates back to before the transformations, the enforcement has become stricter since then. No difference in the position towards cryptography can be seen between the countries that had successful revolutions and went through regime changes and those that didn't.\n\nTunisia has several laws that limit online anonymity. Articles 9 and 87 of the 2001 Telecommunication Code ban the use of encryption and provide a sanction of up to five years in prison for the unauthorized sale and use of such techniques.\n\nIn Algeria, users have legally needed authorization for the use of cryptographic technology from the relevant telecommunications authority ARPT (Autorité de Régulation de la Poste et des Télécommunications) since 2012.\n\nIn Egypt, Article 64 of the 2003 Telecommunication Regulation Law states that the use of encryption devices is prohibited without the written consent of the NTRA, the military, and national security authorities.\n\nIn Morocco, the import and export of cryptographic technology, be it soft- or hardware, requires a license from the government. The relevant law No. 53-05 (Loi n° 53-05 relative à l'échange électronique de données juridiques) went into effect in December 2007.\n\nThere are no specific provisions in effect in countries in the East-African region restricting the use of encryption technology. As in other African countries, the main reason given for State surveillance is the prevention of terroristic attacks. Kenya with its proximity to Somalia, has cited this threat for adopting restrictive actions. The country has recently fast-tracked a Computer and Cybercrime Law, to be adopted in the end of 2016. In Uganda a number of laws and ICT policies have been passed over the past three years, none of them however deal with encryption. In 2016, following the Presidential Elections, the Ugandan government shut down social networks such as Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp.\n\nWest-African countries neither limit the import or export of encryption technology, nor its use, most national and foreign companies still rely on the use of VPNs for their communication. Ghana recently introduced a draft law aiming at intercepting electronic and postal communications of citizens, to aid crime prevention. Section 4(3) of the proposed bill gives the government permission to intercept anyone's communication upon only receiving oral order from a public officer. Recently the Nigerian Communications Commission has drafted a bill regarding Lawful Interception of Communications Regulations. If passed, the bill allows the interception of all communication without judicial oversight or court order and forces mobile phone companies to store voice and data communication for three years. Furthermore, the draft plans to give the National Security Agency a right to ask for a key to decrypt all encrypted communication.\n\nUsers in South Africa are not prohibited from using encryption. The provision of such technology, however, is strictly regulated by the Electronic Communications and Transactions Act, 2002.\n\nCountries in Central Africa, like the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Central African Republic, Gabon and Cameroon do not yet have a well-developed legal framework addressing Internet policy issues. The Internet remains a relatively unregulated sphere.\n\nWhile a very broad range of human rights is touched upon by digital technologies, the human rights to freedom of expression (Art. 19 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights [ICCPR]) and the right to private life (Art. 17 ICCPR) are of particular relevance to the protection of cryptographic methods. Unlike the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) which is international 'soft law', the ICCPR is a legally binding international treaty.\n\nRestrictions on the right to freedom of expression are only permitted under the conditions of Article 19, paragraph 3. Restrictions shall be provided for by law and they shall be necessary (a) for the respect of the rights or reputations of others or (b) for the protection of national security or of public order or of public health or morals. A further possibility for restriction is set out in Art. 20 ICCPR, In the context of limitations on cryptography, restrictions will most often be based on Article 19 (3)(b), i.e. risks for national security and public order. This raises the complex issue of the relation, and distinction, between security of the individual, e.g. from interference with personal electronic communications, and national security. The right to privacy protects against 'arbitrary or unlawful interference' with one's privacy, one's family, one's home and one's correspondence. Additionally, Article 17(1) of the ICCPR protects against 'unlawful attacks' against one's honor and reputation. The scope of Article 17 is broad. Privacy can be understood as the right to control information about one's self. The possibility to live one's life as one sees fit, within the boundaries set by the law, effectively depends on the information which others have about us and use to inform their behavior towards us. That is part of the core justification for protecting privacy as a human right.\n\nIn addition to the duty to not infringe these rights, States have a positive obligation to effectively ensure the enjoyment of freedom of expression and privacy of every individual under their jurisdiction. These rights may conflict with other rights and interests, such as dignity, equality or life and security of an individual or legitimate public interests. In these cases, the integrity of each right or value must be maintained to the maximum extent, and any limitations required for balancing have to be in law, necessary and proportionate (especially least restrictive) in view of a legitimate aim (such as the rights of others, public morals and national security).\n\nEncryption supports this mode of communication by allowing people to protect the integrity, availability and confidentiality of their communications. The requirement of uninhibited communications is an important precondition for freedom of communication, which is acknowledged by constitutional courts e.g. US Supreme Court and the German Bundesverfassungsgericht as well as the European Court of Human Rights. More specifically, meaningful communication requires people's ability to freely choose the pieces of information and develop their ideas, the style of language and select the medium of communication according to their personal needs. Uninhibited communication is also a precondition for autonomous personal development. Human beings grow their personality by communicating with others. UN's first Special Rapporteur on Privacy, professor Joe Cannataci, stated that \"privacy is not just an enabling right as opposed to being an end in itself, but also an essential right which enables the achievement of an over-arching fundamental right to the free, unhindered development of one's personality\". In case such communication is inhibited, the interaction is biased because a statement does not only reflect the speaker's true (innermost) personal views but can be unduly influenced by considerations that should not shape communication in the first place. Therefore, the process of forming one's personality through social interaction is disrupted. In a complex society freedom of speech does not become reality when people have the right to speak. A second level of guarantees need to protect the precondition of making use of the right to express oneself. If there is the risk of surveillance the right to protect one freedom of speech by means of encryption has to be considered as one of those second level rights. Thus, restriction of the availability and effectiveness of encryption as such constitutes an interference with the freedom of expression and the right to privacy as it protects private life and correspondence. Therefore, it has to be assessed in terms of legality, necessity and purpose.\n\nFreedom of expression and the right to privacy (including the right to private communications) materially protect a certain behavior or a personal state. It is well established in fundamental rights theory that substantive rights have to be complemented by procedural guaranties to be effective. Those procedural guarantees can be rights such as the right to an effective remedy. However, it is important to acknowledge that those procedural rights must, similar to the substantive rights, be accompanied by specific procedural duties of governments without which the rights would erode. The substantial rights have to be construed in a way that they also contain the duty to make governance systems transparent, at least to the extent that allows citizens to assess who made a decision and what measures have been taken. In this aspect, transparency ensures accountability. It is the precondition to know about the dangers for fundamental rights and make use of the respective freedoms.\n\nThe effectuation of human rights protection requires the involvement of service providers. These service providers often act as intermediaries facilitating expression and communication of their users of different kinds. In debates about cryptographic policy, the question of lawful government access – and the conditions under which such access should take place in order to respect human rights – has a vertical and national focus. Complexities of jurisdiction in lawful government access are significant and present a still unsolved puzzle. In particular, there has been a dramatic shift from traditional lawful government access to digital communications through the targeting of telecommunications providers with strong local connections, to access through targeting over-the-top services with fewer or loose connections to the jurisdictions in which they offer services to users. In which cases such internationally operating service providers should (be able to) hand over user data and communications to local authorities. The deployment of encryption by service providers is a further complicating factor.\n\nFrom the perspective of service providers, it seems likely that cryptographic methods will have to be designed to account for only providing user data on the basis of valid legal process in certain situations. In recent years, companies and especially online intermediaries have found themselves increasingly in the focus of the debate on the implementation of human rights. Online intermediaries not only have a role of intermediaries between content providers and users but also one of \"Security Intermediaries\" in various aspects. Their practices and defaults as regards encryption are highly relevant to the user's access to and effective usage of those technologies. Since a great amount of data is traveling through their routers and is stored in their clouds, they offer ideal points of access for the intelligence community and non-state actors. Thus, they also, perhaps involuntarily, function as an interface between the state and the users in matters of encryption policy. The role has to be reflected in the human rights debate as well, and it calls for a comprehensive integration of security of user information and communication in the emerging Internet governance model of today.\n\nUNESCO is working on promoting the use of legal assessments based on human rights in cases of interference with the freedom to use and deploy cryptographic methods. The concept of Internet Universality, developed by UNESCO, including its emphasis on openness, accessibility to all, and multi-stakeholder participation. While these minimal requirements and good practices can be based on more abstract legal analysis, these assessments have to be made in specific contexts. Secure authenticated access to publicly available content, for instance, is a safeguard against many forms of public and private censorship and limits the risk of falsification. One of the most prevalent technical standards that enables secure authenticated access is TLS. Closely related to this is the availability of anonymous access to information. TOR is a system that allows the practically anonymous retrieval of information online. Both aspects of access to content directly benefit the freedom of thought and expression. The principle of legal certainty is vital to every juridical process that concerns cryptographic methods or practices. The principle is essential to any forms of interception and surveillance, because it can prevent unreasonable fears of surveillance, such as when the underlying legal norms are drafted precisely. Legal certainty may avert chilling effects by reducing an inhibiting key factor for the exercise of human rights, for UNESCO. Continuous innovation in the field ofcryptography and setting and spreading new technical standards is therefore essential. Cryptographic standards can expire quickly as computing power increases . UNESCO has outlined that education and continuous modernization of cryptographic techniques are important.\n\nThe impact of human rights can only be assessed by analyzing the possible limitations that states can set for those freedoms. UNESCO states that national security can be a legitimate aim for actions that limit freedom of speech and the right to privacy, but it calls for actions that are necessary and proportional. \"UNESCO considers an interference with the right to encryption as a guarantee enshrined in the freedom of expression and in privacy as being especially severe if:\n\n• It affects the ability of key service providers in the media and communications landscape to protect their users' information and communication through secure cryptographic methods and protocols, thereby constituting the requirement of uninhibited communications for users of networked communication services and technologies.\n\n• The state reduces the possibility of vulnerable communities and/or structurally important actors like journalists to get access to encryption;\n\n• Mere theoretical risks and dangers drive restrictions to the relevant fundamental rights under the legal system of a state;\n\n• The mode of state action, e.g. if restrictions on fundamental rights are established through informal and voluntary arrangements, lead to unaccountable circumvention or erosion of the security of deployed cryptographic methods and technologies.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "47057796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47057796", "title": "Insurance Act 2015", "text": "Insurance Act 2015\n\nThe Insurance Act 2015 (2015 c.4) is a United Kingdom Act of Parliament which makes significant reforms to insurance law. It follows on from the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (\"CIDRA\"). Both of these new Acts are a consequence of the Law Commission's millennium review of the law of insurance in general, and of marine insurance in particular. The Marine Insurance Act 1906 has been amended by these two new Acts.\n\nPart 1\n\nPart 2 addresses the Duty of Fair Presentation.\n\nPart 3 addresses \"Warranties and other terms\". \n\nPart 4 addresses \"Fraudulent claims\".\n\nPart 5 addresses \"Good faith\". \n\nThere are two further parts containing ancillary provisions: Part 6 and Part 7.\n\nInitially, the Insurance Act 2015 was to have contained provisions relating to damages for the late payment of insurance claims. However, these provisions were deemed to be too controversial to pass through the expedited parliamentary procedure for Law Commission bills. They were later reinserted in Part 5 of the Enterprise Bill, which was introduced into Parliament on 16 September 2015 and passed into law on 4 May 2016. Clause 13A of the 2015 Act now states that:\n\n"}
{"id": "50123761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50123761", "title": "International Day of the liberation of Nazi concentration camps", "text": "International Day of the liberation of Nazi concentration camps\n\nInternational Day of liberation of the Nazi concentration camps is a memorable date, celebrated annually on 11 April.\n\nDuring the Second World War in Nazi Germany, its allies and countries in the occupied territories they acted (in addition to prisons, ghettos, and so on). Of 14 000 concentration camps. Prisoners of Nazis burned in the ovens of the crematorium (sometimes to death), poisoned in gas chambers, tortured, raped, starved and forced to work at the same time to exhaustion; prisoners have bled for the soldiers of the Wehrmacht, was performed over them the terrible medical experiments, testing new drugs on the people.\n\nIn March 1945, on the territory of Buchenwald (the largest concentration camp) flashes armed insurrection organized by international forces prisoners themselves. When Buchenwald concentration camp includes the American troops, the rebels had already presided over a death camp. Largely because of this, the Nazis (SS guards) did not manage to cover up the traces of their horrible crimes and the testimony of prisoners reached the international Nuremberg Tribunal. April 11 - the day of entry of American troops into the territory of Buchenwald - and was adopted by the United Nations as the date when the planet marks the International Day of liberation of Nazi concentration camps.\n\nTotal in the territories controlled by the Germans, was contained in concentration camps, death camps, prisons 18 000 000 people. Of these, more than 11 million were killed. Among the dead - 5 million citizens of the USSR, as well as 6 million Jews from different countries. Every fifth prisoner was a child (there are more terrible figures \"contained more than 20 million people from 30 countries, 12 million did not live up to the release of\" ).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3025123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3025123", "title": "Judge advocate", "text": "Judge advocate\n\nA Judge Advocate is an officer of the court or judicial officer, usually associated with the armed forces. A Judge Advocate General is typically the most senior judge advocate within an military branch or the armed forces as a whole. The job descriptions, roles and responsibilities of judge advocates varies between countries.\n\nJudge Advocate roles include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4988073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4988073", "title": "Julius von Ficker", "text": "Julius von Ficker\n\nJulius von Ficker, or Johann Kaspar Julius Ficker von Feldhaus (30 April 1826 – 10 June 1902) was a Roman Catholic German historian. In 1898 he was awarded the Pour le Mérite for Sciences and Arts.\n\nBorn at Paderborn, Ficker studied history and law at Bonn, Münster, and Berlin, and during 1848-49 lived in Frankfurt, where he was closely associated with the noted historian, Johann Friedrich Böhmer, who proved himself a generous friend and patron. In 1852 he proceeded to Bonn, but shortly afterwards accepted an invitation from Count Leopold Thun-Hohenstein, the reorganizer of the Austrian system of education, to settle at Innsbruck as professor of general history. In 1863, however, he joined the faculty of jurisprudence, and his lectures on political and legal history drew around him a large circle of devoted and admiring pupils. In 1866 he was elected member of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, but retired, after being ennobled by the Emperor of Austria, Franz Joseph, in 1879.\n\nDuring the period 1859-1866, triggered by the publication of Giesebrecht's \"Geschichte der deutschen Kaiserzeit\", he was engaged in a literary controversy with the historian, Heinrich von Sybel, on the significance of the Holy Roman Empire. Ficker advocated and defended the theory that Austria, on account of its blending of races, was best fitted as successor of the old empire to secure the political advancement both of Central Europe and of Germany. In support of his theory, he wrote \"Das deutsche Kaiserreich in seinen universalen und nationalen Beziehungen\" (Innsbruck, 1871), and \"Deutsches Königtum und Kaisertum\" (Innsbruck, 1872). As legatee of Böhmer's literary estate, he published the \"Acta Imperii selecta\" (lnnsbruck, 1870) and directed the completion and revision of the \"Regesta Imperii\".\n\nJulius von Ficker died in Innsbruck.\n\nHis sons were also prominent. Ludwig von Ficker (1880-1967) was a publisher and essayist who promoted and published the work of his friend, Georg Trakl. Heinrich von Ficker (1881-1957) was a meteorologist, geophysicist and explorer. Rudolf von Ficker (1886-1954) was a musicologist.\n\nFicker's numerous and important works extend over three branches of scientific history: political and legal history and the science of diplomatics. In each division he discovered new methods of investigation. Among his writings those of especial note are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24591135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24591135", "title": "Law of the Horse", "text": "Law of the Horse\n\nLaw of the Horse was a term used in the mid-1990s to define the state of cyberlaw during the nascent years of the Internet.\n\nThe term first gained prominence in a 1996 cyberlaw conference presentation by Judge Frank H. Easterbrook of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Easterbrook, who was also on the faculty of the University of Chicago, later published his presentation in the University of Chicago Legal Forum as \"Cyberspace and the Law of the Horse\", in which he argued against the notion of defining cyberlaw as a unique section of legal studies and litigation. Easterbrook cited Gerhard Casper as coining the expression “law of the horse,” and stated that Casper’s arguments against specialized or niche legal studies applied to cyberlaw:\nEasterbrook’s theory was challenged by Lawrence Lessig, a professor at Harvard Law School, in an April 1997 article \"The Law of the Horse: What Cyberlaw Might Teach.\" Lessig’s article, which was first presented at the Boston University Law School Faculty Workshop, argued that legal perceptions and rules would need to evolve as the cyberspace environment developed and expanded.\n\n"}
{"id": "24362979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24362979", "title": "Legal status of the Holy See", "text": "Legal status of the Holy See\n\nThe legal status of the Holy See, the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the Catholic Church in Rome, both in state practice and according to the writing of modern legal scholars, is that of a full subject of public international law, with rights and duties analogous to those of States.\n\nAlthough the Holy See, as distinct from the Vatican City State, does not fulfill the long-established criteria in international law of statehood; i.e. having a permanent population, a defined territory, a stable government and the capacity to enter into relations with other states; its possession of full legal personality in international law is evidenced by its diplomatic relations with 180 states, that it is a \"member-state\" in various intergovernmental international organizations, and that it is: \"respected by the international community of sovereign States and treated as a subject of international law having the capacity to engage in diplomatic relations and to enter into binding agreements with one, several, or many states under international law that are largely geared to establish and preserving peace in the world.\" As Graham notes:\n\nThis peculiar character of the Holy See in international law, as a non-territorial entity with a legal personality akin to that of states, has led professor Ian Brownlie to define it as a \"\"sui generis\" entity\".\n\nMoreover, the Holy See itself, while claiming international legal personality, does not claim to be a State. Cardinal Jean-Louis Tauran, former Secretary for Relations with States of the Secretariat of State of the Holy See, has underlined that we must avoid the temptation of assimilating the Holy See and its international action with that of a State, with their thirst for power. For him, the Holy See is unquestionably a sovereign subject of international law but of a predominantly religious nature.\n\nFor some authors, the current legal personality of the Holy See is a remnant of its preeminent role in medieval politics. Thus Arangio-Ruiz noted that the Holy See has been an actor in the evolution of international law since before the creation of strong nation states, and that it has maintained international personality since. \nFor others, the international personality of the Holy See arises solely from its recognition by other states. In this sense, Brownlie argues that the personality of the Holy See “as a religious organ apart from its territorial base in the Vatican City” arises from the \"principle of effectiveness\", that is, from the fact that other states voluntarily recognize the Holy See, acquiesce having bilateral relations with it, and in fact do so, in a situation where no rule of \"ius cogens\" is breached. For him, though, the international personality thus conferred is effective only towards those states prepared to enter into diplomatic relations with it. Crawford similarly believes that the recognition of a number of states is important evidence to acknowledge the legal personality of the Holy See, so that, today, it cannot be denied.\n\nFor a third group of authors, the international legal personality of the Holy See is based mostly, but not only, on its unique spiritual role. Araujo notes, for instance, that \"it is generally understood that the Holy See’s international personality emerges from its religious, moral and spiritual authority and mission in the world as opposed to a claim over purely temporal matters. This is an incomplete understanding, however, of the grounds on which its claim as a subject of international law can be justified\", since, in his view, the Holy See’s claim to international personality can also be justified by the fact that it is recognized by other states as a full subject of international law. The Lateran Treaty itself seems to support this view. In article 2, Italy recognized \"the sovereignty of the Holy See in the international domain as an attribute inherent in its nature, in accordance with its tradition and with the requirements of its mission in the world.\"\n\nFor a further group, the legal personality of the Holy See in international law arises from the Lateran Treaty, which, in their view, conferred international standing to the central government of the Catholic Church. In this sense, Oppenheim argued that \"the previously controversial international position of the Holy See was clarified as the result of the Treaty of 11 February 1929, between the Holy See and Italy - the so called Lateran Treaty. (...) The Lateran Treaty marks the resumption of the formal membership, interrupted in 1871, of the Holy See in the society of states.\"\n\nOppenheim goes further and denies a separate legal personality for the Vatican City State. For him, the composite of the Holy See plus the Vatican City constitutes just one international person; \"see\" p. 328:\n\nKunz sharply criticized this view. For him:\n\nA separate question is whether the Holy See was a subject of international law between 1870, when the Kingdom of Italy annexed the Papal States, and 1929, when the Lateran Treaties were signed. The United States, for instance, suspended diplomatic relations with the Holy See when it lost the Papal States. Similarly, Oppenheim believed that the legal personality of the Papal States became extinct in 1870. For him, between 1870 and 1929, the \"Holy See was not an international person,\" although \"it had by custom and tacit consent of most states acquired a quasi-international position\". The United Nations International Law Commission noted, nonetheless, that:\n\nSimilarly, Kunz argued that:\n\nSince 1995, the non-governmental organization Catholics for Choice has advocated against the participation of the Holy See in multilateral forums. It argues that the Holy See is a religious organization and not a state, and that, therefore, it should have neither a special status in international law nor the right to participate, in a position analogous to that of states, in the international conferences on social, cultural and economic matters. No State has supported this initiative. On the contrary, the United Nations General Assembly confirmed and raised further the status of the Holy See as an observer within the UN, through its Resolution 58/314 of 16 July 2004.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23517166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23517166", "title": "List of Guardian's Office operations", "text": "List of Guardian's Office operations\n\nFrom its establishment in 1966 to its demise in the early 1980s, the Guardian's Office (GO) of the Church of Scientology carried out numerous covert operations and programs against a range of perceived opponents of Scientology in the United States and around the world. The GO sought to discredit, destroy or otherwise neutralize – or \"depower\", in Scientology jargon – any group or individual that it regarded as anti-Scientology. Instructions for such operations were distributed in the form of individually numbered \"Guardian Program Orders\", abbreviated as GPgmOs, which were distributed from the GO leadership to GO branches in Churches of Scientology and ultimately used to task agents.\n\nOperation Big Mouth was a plan devised by the GO to discredit Nathan Dodell, an Assistant US Attorney who represented the government in several cases involving Scientology. Dodell was believed by the GO to be \"assiduously collecting files on Scientology to show (a) harassment of the U.S. government [by Scientologists] and (b) violations of the law by Scientology.\" Jimmy Mulligan, an assistant to L. Ron Hubbard's wife and GO head Mary Sue Hubbard, instructed GO agents to \"finally and terminatedly handle Mr. Dodell. He has been on our lines for many, many years. I would like for you to have very accurate and complete surveys done on him in D.C., and mock up and carry out some very professional, smooth, ops [operations] which will depower him fully.\" The Guardian's Office later concluded that it would be necessary to prove that Dodell was guilty of criminal conduct before the Church of Scientology could get him fired. GO agents repeatedly burglarized Dodell's office in the US Courthouse in Washington, D.C. and copied reams of documents about Scientology.\n\nOperation Bulldozer Leak (July 21, 1976) was designed to \"effectively spread the rumor that will lead Government, media, and individual SPs [Suppressive Persons] to conclude that LRH [L. Ron Hubbard] has no control of the C of S [the Church of Scientology] and no legal liability for church activity.\" Assistant Guardians in all branches of the GO were ordered \"to spread the rumor\" via agents working undercover, who were to approach government officials, journalists and others who had been critical of Scientology. An agent \"will in several different ways mention that he has heard that LRH no longer has any control of the Church; and that an ex-Scientologist has shown some articles ... that stated that it had definitely been established in several court cases precedents that LRH had no liability for any Church activity.\" If contacts could not be seen personally, they were to be telephoned \"and the cover story and rumor given.\" The agents were provided with sample scripts which included lines such as: \"So while the press likes to ride with the one-leader idea so as to make press, they could not be further from the truth.\" The plan envisaged using Scientologists as fake authors who would interview government officials and then casually mention that they'd \"heard that LRH no longer has any control of the church.\"\n\nOperation Bunny Bust (July 15, 1976) was a covert operation mounted against Bette Orsini, a reporter with the \"St Petersburg Times\" newspaper in Florida. She had been undertaking a major investigation of Scientology in the early part of 1976 and had come to the GO's attention via its agent in the Internal Revenue Service, who came across her requests for information from the government. A weekly report sent from Dick Weigand to Mo Budlong stated:\n\nTo resolve this, Joe Lisa, the assistant guardian for information at Scientology's Flag Land Base, proposed a plan codenamed Operation Information \"to get Bette Orsini removed from a position of power and attack\" at the \"Times\". An agent posing as an aide to a Mafia figure would go to the \"Times\" office and leave $100 for Orsini, implying that it was a payoff to her for providing the Mafia with information from the newspaper's files. This plan was, however, apparently not attempted.\n\nIn July 1976, the GO initiated Operation Bunny Bust – an effort to attack Orsini via a charity group, the Easter Seal Society for Crippled Children and Adults, for which her husband Andrew worked as executive secretary. The GO discovered that the Easter Seal Society had forgotten to file an annual report with the Florida state authorities. This provided an opening for it to attack the Society, and by extension the Orsinis. Dick Weigand wrote to Mo Budlong to inform him: \"A project has been drawn up and is now being implemented to show Easter Seal Society that Orsini (the executive secretary) has been operating as a fraud and has broken laws. This data is intended for a PR (public relations) attack.\" In November 1976, the GO began to mail an anonymous letter to various newspapers in Florida and to the St. Petersburg Consumer Affairs Department, the St. Petersburg Charitable Solicitations Board and the state attorney's office. Purportedly from a wealthy businessman, it complained that \"an exhaustive independent probe\" had found that the Easter Seal Society's financial and administrative affairs had been criminally mismanaged and called for the arrest and prosecution of Andrew Orsini.\n\nThe attack backfired when it was traced back to the Church of Scientology, and none of the newspapers to whom the letter had been sent ever published stories about the anonymous allegations. Bette Orsini found that a Scientologist named Ben A. Shaw had recently purchased copies of the Easter Seal Society's files from the Division of Licensing in Miami. He had misrepresented himself as a reporter for a University of Florida newspaper but was in fact an administrative assistant to the president of the Church of Scientology of Florida. When he was subpoenaed, he denied writing the anonymous letter or having any knowledge about it but he could not explain what he had done or was planning to do with the information that he had obtained. Orsini's investigations led her to two other Scientologists, who worked for the Clearwater Chamber of Commerce and the \"Clearwater Sun\" newspaper; both of them were undercover agents working for the GO. The agents had previously been involved in other Scientology covert operations. Weigand noted with concern that \"the chain does lead to Orsini uncovering a Church operative network that could be used as a handle for a Grand Jury investigation of the Church activities which would include the Meisner/Silver scene [the Scientology agent who had infiltrated the IRS].\" Before Orsini could take matters further, however, the FBI launched a massive raid on Scientology offices which led to the exposure of Operation Bunny Bust and the indictment and eventual conviction of 11 Scientologists, including Weigand and Budlong.\n\nOperation Cat (September 16, 1975) was a plan to \"make a mockery and hold up to ridicule the computer, the security services and authority in relation to FOI [Freedom of Information]\" by \"plant[ing] grossly false information in governmental agencies, especially security services files, for later public retrieval and ridiculing exposure.\" The objective was \"to hold up the American security to ridicule, as outlined in the GO by LRH.\" Written by David Gaiman, the Deputy Guardian for Public Relations Worldwide, the plan called for Scientology \"to take a cat with a pedigree name, or some such and to get the name into a computer file, together with a record whether it be criminal social welfare, driving or whatever; and to build the sequence of events to the point where the creature holds a press conference and photographic story results.\" The \"production targets\" of the operation were to plant dossiers in four US government agencies, hold a press conference and achieve four national media articles and 50 local articles by February 20, 1976. The planning document for the operation was one of those seized by the FBI in its July 1977 raids against Scientology, and was subsequently entered as \"Government Exhibit No. 5\" in the case against Guardian Jane Kember and other senior GO staff.\n\nOperation Chaos Leak (April 1976) sought to attack the US Department of Justice (DoJ) and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) by leaking a confidential DoJ internal report on the DEA. The plan envisaged causing \"maximum chaos\" to the DoJ and DEA by carrying out the leak and included elaborate details on how to leak the document without it being traced back to the Church of Scientology. The plan was concocted by Cindy Raymond, in the aftermath of Scientology losing a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit against the DEA. The GO believed that causing a public scandal would discredit the DEA and make it more likely that an appeal court judge would rule in favour of Scientology. Scientologist covert agent Michael Meisner stole a copy of the report from the DoJ and gave half of it to the \"Village Voice\" newspaper in New York City, pretending to be a disaffected DoJ employee.\n\nOperation China Shop (1975) was a plan to take over the \"Clearwater Sun\" newspaper in Clearwater, Florida by disrupting it and discrediting its reporters and editors. The newspaper had frequently been critical of the Church of Scientology, which had established its headquarters in Clearwater in controversial circumstances. Scientology responded by launching an operation to neutralize the newspaper; in a November 10, 1975 letter, Deputy Guardian US Henning Heldt wrote:\n\nHeldt ordered Guardian's Office staff to collect evidence on \"Sun\" personnel including publisher John Ricketson, former editor Al Hutchison and then managing editor Ron Stuart. The GO successfully infiltrated an agent, identified as \"Molly Gilliam\", into the \"Sun\" and obtained detailed reports on internal discussions at the newspaper. The \"Sun's\" news and advertising departments were infiltrated to obtain information on the paper's finances and employees in conjunction with an operation called the \"Sunrise Mission\". The goal was to research the \"Sun's\" advertising policies, its principal advertisers and their business with the \"Sun\", and the value of the newspaper's holdings, in order to determine whether the Church of Scientology could buy out the newspaper. The GO's agents were able to file almost daily reports on the \"Sun\" between January and October 1976, stealing files on advertising, finances, story outlines and legal correspondence. The items stolen included a 100-page computer printout about the newspaper's advertisers and records of its credit union. The GO was able to carry out a detailed financial analysis of the \"Sun's\" status using dozens of purloined revenue sheets and placed a value of $2.5 million on the newspaper.\n\nAs well as targeting the \"Sun\", the GO also sought to target its advertisers and employees to discredit them or, in the case of the advertisers, to convince them to stop buying space in the paper. Operation China Shop included a plan to get the \"Sun's\" largest advertiser, the Maas Brothers department store, to pull its adverts by claiming that a \"Sun\" reporter \"is looking into their back-grounds to print something sordid on them.\" A GO staff member reported: \"I understand that Maas Brothers is the largest account in the \"Clearwater Sun\" and that they put about $400,000 into the \"Sun\" annually. If they were to pull out, the Sun may have to fold.\"\n\nTwo \"Sun\" reporters, Mark Sableman and Steven Advokat, were reported on daily and editor Ron Stuart was targeted with a smear campaign accusing him of sexual misconduct and drug abuse. It was claimed that Stuart and others had dated a \"nymphomaniac\" and his divorce was also investigated. One GO document asserted that because he \"spends very little money--- eats at McDonald's-- (it) seems that Stuart may have some large undisclosed crime that he needs extra money for.\" Another memo accused Stuart and \"Sun\" staffers of drug abuse at an editorial staff party in October 1976.\n\nIn addition, the GO compiled details of Clearwater residents who wrote letters to the \"Sun\" that criticised Scientology. In April 1976, the names, addresses and phone numbers of around 50 \"Sun\" readers were obtained from the newspaper. GO staff proposed to investigate the readers' backgrounds.\n\nOperation Cut Throat was one of a number of operations against regional outlets of the Better Business Bureau, in this case the St. Louis branch of the BBB. In July 1977, the FBI seized a number of documents \"regarding infiltration and background information\" about the St. Louis Better Business Bureau.\n\nOperations Daniel and Dynamite were part of a years-long GO campaign against Paulette Cooper, author of the 1971 book \"The Scandal of Scientology\". According to a GO \"Intell[igence] US Weekly Report\" of October 10, 1972, Operation Daniel was \"wide-scale exposure of PC's sex life.\" During 1972, Cooper had faced an increasing campaign of harassment from Scientology; her name and phone number was posted on street walls so that she would receive obscene phone calls, and she was anonymously subscribed to pornographic mailing lists. She also received anonymous death threats and her neighbors received letters claiming that she had a venereal disease.\n\nThe same report mentioned that the GO was \"investigating and attempting commitment procedures in line with the targets on Operation Dynamite.\" According to Cooper, who later reviewed the GO's files on her, this referred to an attempt to frame her for supposedly making bomb threats against the Church of Scientology. In December 1972, the New York Church of Scientology \"received\" two anonymous bomb threats. The following May, Cooper was indicted for making the bomb threats and arraigned for a Federal grand jury. Although the charges were dropped in 1975, it was not until 1977 that the FBI discovered that the bomb threats had been staged by the Guardian's Office.\n\nOperation Devil's Wop (April 7, 1977) was a GO covert operation against Senator Dennis DeConcini of Arizona, who was a supporter of anti-cult groups. Dick Weigand, the Deputy Guardian for Information US, ordered GO staff to prepare a report on DeConcini that would be leaked to the press to link him, falsely, with organized crime figures and questionable real estate deals. In June 1977, GO agent Michael Meisner was given the task of writing the report on account of his knowledge of the Washington, D.C. political scene and his previous dealings with the press.\n\nOperation Fickle was a proposed plan to attack Eugene Patterson, editor and president of the \"St. Petersburg Times\" newspaper. The paper had been highly critical of Scientology for several years; in retaliation, the GO sought to discredit Patterson. According to GO official Randy Windment, Patterson had been nominated as the successor to Times Publishing Company owner Nelson Poynter, on condition that he would continue Poynter's policies. Windment proposed \"to cast doubt upon Patterson and the actuality of his continuing\" those policies so that Poynter would \"separate Patterson from his source of power.\" A Scientologist operating under cover would interview Patterson's wife and elicit answers that could be construed to oppose Poynter and his policies. The interview would be given to an \"enemy paper\" to \"cause both Patterson and Poynter to be the laughing stocks of the newspaper world.\" However, the operation was disapproved by Greg Willardson, the Deputy Guardian Information U.S:\n\n\"See Operation Freakout.\"\n\nOperation Funny Bone (April 28, 1977) was initiated in retaliation against syndicated newspaper cartoonist Jim Berry, who penned a cartoon that poked fun at Scientology and other fringe belief groups. L. Ron Hubbard ordered GO operative Dick Weigand to start an operation to \"disenfranchise\" Berry. The operation, as Weigand noted in a memo sent on May 28, 1977, \"was done off a recent LRH order to myself, so needless to say I want the actions done fast.\" The objective of the operation was to \"cause Jim Berry to lose his sindicated publication so that he can no longer SP [Suppressive Person] Scientology.\" The plan was to obtain back issues of the \"Berry's World\" cartoon and find particular cartoons that could be used by the GO to claim that Berry was a racist: \"There should be many buttons of persons that are being pressed. e.g. a joke on Poles: a joke on Catholics: a joke on Jews: a joke on any ethnic groups: make a list of this person types or ethnics.\" Individual Scientologists were then to write to newspapers syndicating \"Berry's World\" to complain about the cartoons and asking them to drop Berry. They were also ordered to write to the leaders of ethnic groups urging them to protest about Berry's cartoons. There is no indication that the scheme was put into practice, although a Scientologist did contact Berry's syndicate to try to uncover information about the cartoonist. The details of the operation came to light after the planning documents were seized by the FBI in July 1977.\n\nOperation Hydra was a Guardian's Office campaign to rid libraries across the United States of books and other literature that showed Scientology in a bad light. According to a former GO operative who participated in the campaign in Massachusetts, books were stolen from libraries across New England and hidden behind a false wall in the Scientology building in Boston. They were said to have been destroyed in 1977 along with incriminating documents about other GO activities following raids by the FBI against church offices in Los Angeles and Washington, D.C.\n\n\"See Operation Bunny Bust.\"\n\nOperation Italian Fog was an attempt to smear Gabriel Cazares, the mayor of Clearwater, Florida, in order to \"discredit\" him and \"weaken his power in his attacking actions at the [Scientology] Base.\" The plan was set out by Guardian's Office member Bruce Raymond in a letter of March 23, 1976 that stated:\n\nA plan of action was written on April 9, stating:\n\nOperation Juicy Clanger targeted tax records of prominent politicians and celebrities. Scientology operatives infiltrated the Los Angeles offices of the IRS and stole confidential files on California's governor Jerry Brown, Los Angeles' mayor Tom Bradley, the singer Frank Sinatra and the actress Doris Day, as well as attempting to steal John Wayne's tax records. The church appears to have intended to blackmail the IRS; the operation envisaged the church pretending that it had received the stolen tax records from a whistleblower and threatening to release them to create what the plans described as \"an additional pressure on [the IRS] to finish the audit [of Scientology tax matters] favorably\".\n\nOperation Keeler was a bid to smear Gabriel Cazares, the mayor of Clearwater, Florida, by staging a fake road accident in Washington, D.C. while he was in the company of a young woman Scientologist. The intention was to manufacture a scandal that would derail Cazares' bid to win a seat in the United States House of Representatives. When the Guardian's Office discovered that Cazeres would be attending a national mayors' conference in Washington between March 13–17, it put into place a plan to entrap the mayor in a staged scandal. A GO official informed Duke Snider, one of those later imprisoned on conspiracy charges, that he was \"having DC put together fast a report on the upcoming conference primarily where it will be and when (in detail) and locate where Cazares will be staying. I am now working on a set of Ops [operations] type actions which could be done to welcome the mayor to the capital.\" The operation, codenamed \"Op Keeler\", was reported back to Mo Budlong by Dick Weigand, the Deputy Guardian Information US, in a letter of March 15, 1976:\n\nBoth of the other people involved in the \"accident\" in Rock Creek Park were Scientologists; the woman was a Scientologist agent named Sharon Thomas, and the man was Michael Meisner, who was later to play a key role in the Snow White scandal that eventually brought down the Guardian's Office. L. Ron Hubbard himself took a keen interest in Cazares and on the same day that Weigand's memo was sent, he sent a note to the GO: \"Cazares - is there still some possibility the Cubans in Miami might get the idea he is pro-Castro?\"\nOn June 21, 1976 Don Alverso, director of Branch I information for the Scientology Flag Land Base in Clearwater, wrote to Weigand to inform him of the plans for the next phase of the operation – a smear campaign based on the fake accident. He wrote:\n\nThe letter was to be written on \"a safe typewriter\" and mailed from Washington to leading Democrats in Pinellas County, as well as to the \"St. Petersburg Times\", the \"Clearwater Sun\", the \"Tampa Tribune\", newspapers in the state capital Tallahassee and Channel 13 news. The letter was duly sent in August 1976, signed \"Sharon T.\", and said:\n\nA GO agent initially offered damaging information on Cazares to his opponent's administrative assistant but was rebuffed. The Assistant Guardian Information Flag wrote on August 2, 1976 that \"Op Keeler is presently underway and is expected to start getting effects on Cazares in the next few days.\" The desired objective, he explained, was to force Cazares \"into a 'glutz' situation of constantly defending himself and his actions, and removing all of his attack statements (about the church) from local media lines. Force him to spend his campaign funds for his defense, not for his offense.\" To cover its tracks, the GO sent an anonymous letter to Cazeres' Republican opponent, Bill Young, claiming that the \"Sharon T.\" letter was actually the work of the Cazares campaign and that he would claim it had been a dirty trick on Young's part. Young responded by turning the GO's letter over to the FBI, and Cazares likewise called in the FBI to investigate the smear campaign.\n\nCazares was defeated in the congressional race on November 2, 1976. After the GO's files became public in 1979, he sued the Church of Scientology for invasion of privacy and malicious prosecution. In August 1986, after six years of litigation, he won an out-of-court settlement.\n\nOperation Kettle was one of a number of operations carried out against the American Medical Association, which had criticized Dianetics and Scientology on a number of occasions.\n\nOperation Oscar (possibly alternatively known as the Oscar Program) was an operation carried out against Michael J. Flynn, a Boston attorney who was involved in a number of lawsuits against the Church of Scientology in the early 1980s. The operation sought to have Flynn disbarred and involved planting a Guardian's Office agent inside his law office for the purpose of gathering information.\n\nOperation Orange Juice (GPgmO 1114, April 27, 1977) was a plan to attack Florida State Representative Frank Williams, who was sponsoring a Psychological Practices Bill which could have restricted the activities of Scientology in Florida. The GO suspected that Williams was \"obviously being pushed by some mental health individual\" behind the scenes. It sought to \"locate the WHO pushing for the Bill being made legislation, identify the Bill with the individual and take out the individual. This will result in the Bill being killed.\" Individual Scientologists were to be used to operate in the guise of concerned professionals affected by the bill, who would lobby against its enactment and try to find out who was behind it. When the \"John Doe\" was found, \"any and all crimes and embarrassing points\" were to be uncovered in a bid to discredit him or it. Religious groups such as the \"Baptists, Christian Scientists, Episcopalians, Methodists, Lutherans, Mormons, Jehovas Witnesses\" and so on were to be contacted and urged to \"send steaming letters to their representatives from all over Florida to kill the \"Doe\" Bill.\"\n\nOperation Paris aimed to identify individual IRS officials working on Scientology tax matters and investigate their background and activities. A 'plant' would be recruited to develop social and political contacts with IRS personnel.\n\nOperation Paste Up was a campaign against mental health organizations, carried out with the use of front groups to stage demonstrations and stick up posters outside mental health facilities. The plan sought to create the appearance that many different groups across the United States were protesting, but specified that the protests were not to be linked with Scientology. One such protest took place outside a Utah hospital on December 13, 1969.\n\nOperation Random Harvest sought to document criminal activity on the part of the IRS.\n\nOperation Rook was a GO campaign against the Better Business Bureau of Phoenix, Arizona at the start of the 1970s. According to one of the documents seized by the FBI from the Guardian's Office in 1977, the successes of Operation Rook included \"successfully obtain[ing] Phoenix BBB file on Scientology and Arizona Republic Newspaper file on Scientology\".\n\nOperation Search and Destroy targeted organizations and individuals providing information to the Internal Revenue Service. The GO would use overt or covert means to obtain information which could be used to discredit them, while avoiding any disclosure of Scientology's involvement. The GO had already obtained information on IRS informants and sought to expand its coverage.\n\nOperation Shake and Bake was a plan targeting LaVenda Van Schaick, an ex-Scientologist who left the church in 1979. According to Van Schaick, supposedly confidential personal information that she had divulged as part of Scientology counselling was used in an attempt to blackmail her. She also reported that her home and telephone had been bugged and an attempt had been made to break up her marriage by telling her that her husband had had affairs with other women.\n\nA plan possibly called Operation Shell Game was promulgated in February 1977 by GO official Mo Budlong in an order sent to the Deputy Guardian Information Canada. It ordered Canadian GO staff to locate the papers of the former director of the World Health Organization, Dr. Brock Chisholm. A Scientologist \"using a suitable guise\" was to review the papers and obtain copies of anything to do with Scientology or L. Ron Hubbard. Budlong ordered that current World Federation of Mental Health members were to be checked \"in any way suitable\" to see whether they might have any similar papers, and \"If files are discovered, obtain them.\"\n\nOperation Smoke was an infiltration campaign carried out against the American Cancer Society, which had issued an alert in October 1966 warning that it had \"found no evidence that treatment with the E-meter results in any objective benefits in the treatment of cancer in human beings.\" In 1973, the GO initiated Operation Smoke \"to see how much ACS has been doing against Scn [Scientology] ... indications fairly active .. At this time we have operatives in their national headquarters (N.Y.) and in the following states: Massachusetts, Nevada, Cal. -- which should provide ample information.\"\n\nOperation Snapper was a plot in 1976 to discredit Lawrence Tapper, the deputy attorney general in charge of the charitable trust unit in the California Attorney General's office, who had handled consumer fraud complaints against the Church of Scientology during the 1970s. The Guardian's Office intended to frame Tapper with a pregnant woman, a fake nun and a fictional bribery kickback to get him \"removed from his post in the AG's office so that he can no longer commit overts [sins]\" against Scientology.\n\nThe operation was divided into three \"channels\", each of which had several \"phases\". The first phase of channel one instructed:\n\nIn the second phase:\n\nThe second channel would commence five days later, requiring the GO to \"Recruit a trusted female with a lot of courage. Find out what's the biggest order of nuns in the area, and what habit they would be wearing during this season... Recruit a reliable person who can actually take professional photograph indoors.\" The \"nun\" would go into the Attorney General's office and ask about filing a complaint. The \"photographer\" would follow her and \"overhear\" her question, and would make her \"admit\" that she wanted to complain about Tapper. The \"photographer\" would start taking pictures of the \"nun\": \"Nun covers her face completely. She says please don't. No! Oh God. I shouldn't have come here. Nun leaves very upset. Photographer asks receptionist who was that... and leaves.\" In the second phase, a Scientologist posting as a journalist would go to the office and ask questions such as \"Is it true a nun came in here yesterday and accused Younger of protecting Lawrence Tapper... Any statement on this. Is Younger protecting Tapper on this? What's it all about?\" The pictures taken by the \"photographer\" would be sent to newspapers to elicit headlines \"something like 'Mysterious Nun Claims Prejudice in AG's office.' GET ARTICLE PUBLISHED. The article will cast aspersions on the charity fraud area and Tapper.\"\n\nIn the final channel, GO staff were instructed:\n\nAnother Scientology agent posing as a banker was to deliver the receipt to Younger's office, implicating Tapper for receiving \"payoffs from some rather strange areas.\" According to the planning documents for the operation, \"The above channel workable is derived from the fact that Younger has been involved with bad PR concerning bankers and banks. This should... have Younger put a lot of attention on this caper.\"\n\nAt least some of Operation Snapper was put into effect. The GO documents about the operation were among the files seized by the FBI in June 1977 but it was not until February 1980 that Operation Snapper became public knowledge, when a group called the Citizens Freedom Foundation discovered the planning documents among the files that had been released in the aftermath of the convictions of the GO's leadership. When Henrietta Crampton of the CFF told Tapper about the documents that her group had uncovered, \"he was quiet for a moment, and then he asked if it had anything to do with a pregnant woman. I told him it did and that I had it in writing. He said, 'You've made my weekend,\" and asked me to send him copies.\" Tapper made no further comment, as he and Attorney General Younger were being sued for allegedly illegally infiltrating the Church of Scientology.\n\nHeber Jentzsch, the Los Angeles Church of Scientology's director of public relations, argued that the plot was merely \"unauthorized pranks of which we have no evidence were ever carried out.\" He told the \"Los Angeles Herald Examiner\" that he had \"heard of the 'Snapper' operation. It was a gross operation. I can't condone that kind of activity... Someone obviously got frustrated and decided to carry out their own scenario. It should never have happened.\"\n\nOperation Sore Throat was a major campaign mounted against the American Medical Association. Several Scientologist agents were infiltrated into the AMA as employees, one of whom gained access to meetings of the AMA's board of directors. In June 1975, the AMA found itself repeatedly embarrassed by leaks of confidential documents to the press by an unknown source who called himself \"Sore Throat\" – a punning reference to Deep Throat of Watergate scandal fame. The documents disclosed the AMA's political activities and liaison with the pharmaceutical industry, including lobbying for nominees to federal appointments and details of financial transactions between drug companies and the AMA's political arm.\n\n\"Sore Throat\" claimed to be \"a doctor who worked in the A.M.A.'s Chicago office for about ten years\" who had become discontent with the AMA's policies and moved to Washington, DC. In reality, he was Scientologist agent Michael Meisner, who was later to be a key witness for the US Government against the Guardian's Office leadership.\n\nThe leaks led to the AMA being investigated by the Internal Revenue Service, the US Postal Service, a number of Congressional committees, Ralph Nader and the press. The AMA's internal leak investigation ultimately pointed to the Church of Scientology being behind the leaks. A GO memorandum of May 16, 1977 explained the circumstances of the investigation: \"3 agents got placed in 2 AMA offices. It fell apart in Oct. '75 when the DC missionaire leaked data to the press which identified one of the agents. The AMA called in a firm of investigators who blew the Chicago agent ... and then traced a connection to the DC agents.\"\n\nTwo secretaries in the AMA's Washington office were discovered to be Scientologists, one working under an assumed name. Sherry Canavarro, a secretary in the AMA's Chicago office, was also found to be a Scientologist and was given a lie detector test. Although she passed, confidential minutes from the AMA's board of directors were found in her desk and she was determined to have spent several unexplained weekends at work. She subsequently resigned. When the FBI investigated the case, it discovered that Canavarro also used the names \"Sherry Hermann\" and \"Sandy Cooper\" and held the post of Pacific Secretary of the Guardian Office United States. Although Canavarro escaped legal charges, her husband Mitchell Hermann was subsequently convicted on conspiracy charges and was imprisoned.\n\nOperation Sore Throat was masterminded at a high level within the Guardian's Office, as the US Government's sentencing memorandum in \"United States of America v. Jane Kember, Morris Budlong\" documented. Kember, the Guardian Worldwide, sent a cover story to Deputy Guardian US Henning Heldt: \"David [Gaiman] has laid down a strategy which is to enable us to contain the scene. Our plants when trapped are \"Freedom\" investigative reporters just like any other newspaper. The plants themselves do not have to confess or be named ... We can undercut AMA's continual effort to expose us by indicating it is a smokescreen to prevent \"Freedom\" from publishing.\"\n\nThe AMA accused the Church of Scientology of being behind \"Sore Throat\" but Scientology spokesman denied responsibility, accusing the AMA of \"grasping in the dark to cover their own crimes.\" Even after the GO's role was exposed, Scientology spokesmen defended the leaker's actions: \"\"Whoever 'Sore Throat' was should get a medal,\" Jeffery Dubron told the \"Los Angeles Times\". \"I don't know who that person was ... If this person went in and lied to get a job in the AMA and exposed crimes and created change, should that person be prosecuted for his or her actions?\"\n\nIn addition to the \"Sore Throat\" campaign, the GO carried out a series of burglaries of law firms working for the AMA. The offices of law firms Sidley & Austin were burglarized by two Scientologists in 1976 who copied legally sensitive AMA files after carrying out a 90-minute search.\n\nOperation Strike was a covert campaign which GO staffer Kathy Gregg defined in an October 1971 memo as \"the action of gathering information on a covert basis.\" She listed a twelve-point plan of action on how to do so, ranging from acquiring squeakless shoes to establishing a \"safe reading place\" if stolen files could not be removed from the target location.\n\nOperation Yellow (1976) was a plan to discredit critics of Scientology in Clearwater, Florida - and in particular the mayor, Gabriel Cazares - by making them \"seem to be Fascists, commie haters, and bigots.\" This was to be done by sending an anonymous letter to all downtown Clearwater businesses, particularly \"ALL the Jewish ones.\" GO national operations officer Bruce Raymond wrote a draft letter which read:\n\nA series of operations was carried out by the Guardian's Office against the McLean family of Sutton, Ontario, who had defected \"en masse\" from Scientology in the early 1970s. An order was issued against them in February 1973; two years later in March 1975, a US Deputy Guardian described how the GO's Branch 4 (B4) \"is trying to discredit [Eric] McLean to his next-door neighbors but the only possible beneficial result of that action that would help us is if McLean is ridden out of town on a rail, and 'the public' are notoriously apathetic about doing this even when the 'proof' (sic) is exposed, much less what B4 Canada are doing.\" The Deputy Guardian was critical of the operation and called for it to be revised. Another document from May 1973 reported that the GO had planted an agent in the McLean household and instructed him to look for weaknesses in family relationships that could be exploited so that \"this crowd ... would start to break up.\" \n\nAn operation with an unknown codename was planned against Mark Sableman, a reporter for the \"Clearwater Sun\" newspaper. On January 26, 1976 a Guardian's Office operative named Joe Lisa proposed a plan that included:\n\nProgram Billy's Baby was intended to discredit an official of the American Medical Association by having a Scientologist rehearsed in playing the role of the official's girlfriend. The aim of the operation was to cause a scandal by claiming that she had become pregnant by him. In one GO document, a GO official wrote: \"I recruited a tough OT (operating thetan) female with lots of intention who could act out a few dramatic phone calls ... I drilled the FSM (field staff member) so she had the patter exactly as written and could mock up grief, drugged, slurred voice.\"\n\nProgram: Humanist Humiliation was a 1977 plan by the Guardian's Office to silence the Committee for Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal (CSICOP, now known as the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry) and \"handle terminatedly the Humanist publication Zetetic and the Committee for Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal so that they never attack Scientology or Dianetics again.\" The 23-point order instructed GO members to spread the rumor that CSICOP was a CIA front organization set up \"to discredit any and all psychic phenomena in order to keep this subject under CIA control and in order to squash paranormal research outside the CIA.\" The GO obtained CIA stationery on which it forged letters which were to be sent to journalists with a track record of writing on intelligence matters.\n\nThe program also included sending letters to known anti-Scientologist members of CSICOP, aiming to solicit replies that were \"anti-religious and state that the committee might also look into Christian claims, etc.\" These replies were to be leaked to the \"press, Catholic and Protestant religious leaders, and religious newspapers\" as part of a strategy to \"keep pushing the rumour to keep our enemies involved in a conflict with conventional religion. Get religious leaders steamed up by ringing them as concerned members of their religious communities, or as reporters, or whatever.\"\n\nThe order for Humanist Humiliation was issued by Herman Brandel, an aide to Mary Sue Hubbard, the Controller of the Guardian's Office. The plan was duly carried out; the forged CIA memo was sent to the \"New York Times\", the investigative journalist Jack Anderson and others. According to CSICOP's chairman Paul Kurtz, at least one critic of the committee claimed in print that it was connected with the CIA. The Scientology offensive was carried out shortly after the CSICOP magazine \"Zetetic\" ran an article on Dianetics and Scientology by British sociologist Roy Wallis.\n\n\n\n\nProjects were sub-plans of wider intelligence operations. The following provide a number of examples from the 1970s.\n\nProject Beetle Cleanup called for the theft of \"all DC IRS files on LRH, Scientology, etc., in the Intelligence section, OIO [Office of International Operations], and SSS [Special Services Staff]\". It ordered the placement of agents in the \"required areas or good access developed\".\n\nProject Horn was a plan to covertly release stolen documents without revealing the thieves' identity. The records of other taxpayers would be stolen and released along with those of the Church of Scientology. A GO operative within the IRS was instructed to steal letterheaded stationery from the agency so that letters could be forged in the name of a non-existent whistleblower supposedly responsible for the leaks. The operative did so and also stole tax records for Bob Jones University and the Unification Church.\n\nProject Normandy (December 5, 1975) was a plan devised as part of a planned takeover of the city of Clearwater, Florida in the mid-1970s. Its stated purpose was to \"obtain enough data on the Clearwater area to be able to determine what groups and individuals [we] will need to penetrate and handle in order to establish area control.\" The project's \"major target\" was to \"fully investigate the Clearwater city and county area so we can distinguish our friends from our enemies and handle as needed.\" Among the individuals and organizations listed as targets were Clearwater's City Commission, the City Health Department, the City Mental Hygiene Department, the City Licensing Department, the City Police Department, the City Consumer Affairs Office, the City Attorney, similar offices in Pinellas County and the State of Florida, the local Representative to the US Congress, Florida's US Senators, local media companies, all local financial institutions and pharmaceutical companies.\n\nProject Owl (June 1976) was a plan to infiltrate the Suffolk County District Attorney's Office in response to a planned investigation of the Church of Scientology for criminal fraud and of one of its members for kidnapping.\n\nProject Quaker was a plan to hide Guardian's Office staff in Washington, D.C. from law enforcement agencies seeking to question them. The planning documents stated: \"It may be deemed necessary for all the DC staff who could be pulled in for questioning to suddenly leave. US B-1 SEC is to insure that all concerned are ready to leave at any time and that all cycles - finance, 2D (relationships), bills, are completely up to P.T. (Present Time) and there no PTPs (Present Time Problems) or stops to immediate departure.\" A GO staffer in Clearwater, Florida was ordered to \"immediately do up a confidential s-w (Staff Work) for finances for this project. This is for seven or eight people so the amount should be about $10,000.00 for staffers.\"\n\n\"See Operation Snow White.\"\n\nProject Taco-Less (1976) was a plan to release \"further data about the Mayor\" of Clearwater, Gabriel Cazares, to \"ruin his political career and remove/restrain him as an opponent to Scn [Scientology].\".\n\nProject Troy was aimed \"to get prediction on future IRS actions\" by planting a permanent bugging device in the office of the IRS Chief Counsel. Information acquired by eavesdropping would be used to brief the church's lawyers to mount defensive actions.\n\nProject Witch, a sub-project of the overarching Snow White Program, targeted the UK Aliens Office, the Immigration Office, UK Interpol, the Royal Navy and the Department of Health and Social Security. The Metropolitan Police Service was also targeted in a bid to obtain a Scotland Yard file on Scientology and to sue the Metropolitan Police Commissioner over it.\n"}
{"id": "35968012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35968012", "title": "List of certificates of division in criminal cases", "text": "List of certificates of division in criminal cases\n\nA certificate of division, a procedure for appellate review created by § 6 of the Judiciary Act of 1802, authorized the Supreme Court of the United States to hear questions of law certified from the United States circuit courts if the United States district court judge and the Supreme Court justice riding circuit were divided on that question. Between 1802 and 1896, certificates of division were the source of jurisdiction for approximately half of the criminal cases heard by the Supreme Court.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35614763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35614763", "title": "Litigation funding", "text": "Litigation funding\n\nLitigation funding, also known as legal financing and third-party funding, enables a party to litigate or arbitrate without having to pay for it, whether because they are unable to pay for it or because they do not want to. A third party professional funder can pay some or all of the costs/expenses associated with a dispute in return for a share of the proceeds of the dispute if it is successful. If the litigation is not successful, the funder bears the costs it has agreed to fund. \n\nLitigation funding has two major divisions: consumer financing, commonly referred to as pre-settlement funding or plaintiff advances, and commercial financing. Consumer financing generally consists of small advances between $500 and $2000. Prominent consumer financing companies include LawCash, Oasis Financial, and RD Legal Funding. Commercial financing for companies to pursue legal claims generally is dedicated towards payment of attorney fees and litigation costs. Prominent commercial financing companies include Bentham IMF, Brickell Key Asset Management, Burford Capital, Harbour Litigation Funding, Longford Capital, Statera Capital, Therium Capital, and Validity Finance.\n\nVarious new websites are also promoting the use of litigation crowdfunding, in which case hundreds or tens of thousands of individuals can help to pay for a legal dispute, either investing in a case in return for part of a contingent fee, or offering donations to support a legal right that they believe in.\n\nLitigation funding can be broadly split into 4 different forms in the UK, Conditional fee agreements, Damages Based Agreements, Fixed Fees and Third Party Funding.\n\nLitigation funding is not a new concept. It has been permitted in England and Wales since 1967. Modern commercial litigation funding arose in Australia in the late 1990s, with IMF Bentham becoming the world’s first publicly listed litigation funder (ASX: IMF) in 2001. Since then, funding has spread around the globe. From Australia, where funding first gained wide acceptance after judges lifted restrictions that previously forbade it, to the UK, US, Canada and Asia, commercial litigation funding supports litigants seeking access to justice.\n\nSelected key judgments relating to Litigation Funding, handed down by courts around the world, are summarised below as well as key policy and regulatory developments.\n\n2017\n\nViamedia, Inc. v. Comcast Corp., et al. \n\nJudge Amy St. Eve of the Northern District of Illinois denied defendant Comcast its motion to compel the production of certain documents that Plaintiff Viamedia provided to litigation finance firms while seeking funding to bring its case. \"Viamedia, Inc. v. Comcast Corp., et al.\", 1:16-cv-05486 (N.D. Ill. June 30, 2017). The court held the documents were protected by the work product doctrine and the protection was not waived.\n\n2016\n\nCharge Injection Technologies (CIT) v DuPont\n\nCourt Rejects Challenge to Litigation Funding Arrangement\n\n2011\n\nMerchantbridge v Safron\n\nAddresses liability of litigation funders to adverse costs.\n2010\n\nPedro Emiro Florez Arroyo and Others v BP Exploration Company (Colombia) Limited\n\nA dispute in relation to whether the defendants should be allowed to have inspection of an agreement made between the Claimants and a third party, in this case a policy issued by an After The Event Insurer. The High Court held that it did not have jurisdiction under the Civil Procedure Rules (the “CPR”) to compel the Claimants to produce the Agreement. In addition to this, the Court found that the document was not relevant for the purpose of disclosure, and that, in any event, it attracted litigation privilege as it was individually negotiated between the solicitors for the Claimants and the Insurer. The disclosure of the agreement was likely to prejudice the Claimants in the conduct of the litigation.\nCiting the Government’s conclusions following its consultation in 2000 on “Conditional Fees: Sharing the Risks of Litigation”, the Senior Master reiterated that in privately funded litigation there is no obligation on either party to disclose how a case is being funded. However, in spite of this, the CPR does ensure that a losing party who may be subject to additional costs as a result of a funding arrangement should have access to certain specific information about that arrangement. The Court held that these requirements of the CPR balanced the “interests of the parties with funding arrangements and the interests of those who face the claims for additional costs which result from them” and should therefore be considered sufficient without the necessity to disclose the entire agreement.\n\n2008\n\nLondon & Regional (St George’s Court) Ltd v Ministry of Defence\n\nStates that the modern authorities demonstrate a flexible approach where courts have generally declined to hold that an agreement under which a party provided assistance with litigation in return for a share of the proceeds was unenforceable.\n\n2007\n\nMyatt v National Coal Board (No.2)\n\nIn this case there had been an unsuccessful appeal to the Court of Appeal against a decision holding that a CFA entered into by a particular firm of solicitors in 4 test cases was unenforceable. This had two consequences. The first was that the claimants themselves would have to bear the cost of the ATE insurance premium from the damages recovered by them. The second was that the solicitors would be unable to recover their profit costs in those cases and in other similar cases; the total sum at stake so far as the solicitors were concerned was in the region of £200,000. The solicitors had apparently agreed to fund the appeals at their own expense, and the successful respondent sought an order that they should pay the costs of the appeal as a non-party funder. The Court of Appeal made the order sought. They held that the court had jurisdiction to do so where litigation was pursued by the client for the benefit, or to a substantial degree, for the benefit of the solicitor, because in such circumstances the solicitor was a real party to the litigation. However, because the respondents had failed to give prior notice of their intention to make such an application, which they held was normally incumbent on a party seeking such an order so as to give the solicitor the opportunity to consider whether or not to continue in the light of the risk of such an order being made, and because the appeal had been pursued in part for the client’s own interests, the fair order was that the solicitors should pay 50% of the costs.\n\n2005\n\nArkin v Borchard Lines Ltd & Ors\n\nEnglish Court of Appeal decision explicitly endorses funding as part of its judgment. Also finds that a funder is liable to the other side for costs only to the extent of its own funding.\n\n2004\n\n\"Gulf Azov Shipping Co Ltd v Idisi\" \n\nLord Phillips said that public policy now recognises that it is desirable, in order to facilitate access to justice, that third parties should provide assistance designed to ensure that those who are involved in litigation have the benefit of legal representation.\n\n2003\n\nHamilton v Al-Fayed (No 2)\n\nStates that a person not standing to benefit from the result of litigation, but supporting the Claimant for other reasons, may avoid an order for costs.\n\n2002/2003\n\nR (on the application of Factortame) v Secretary of State for Transport, Environments and the Regions (No 2)\n\nCourt of Appeal held that funding agreement not champertous.\n\n2002\n\nThe Eurasian Dream (No 2)\n\nMarine claims assessors had carried out work for the claimants on the basis of a no-win, no-fee agreement providing for 5% of recoveries.\nThe judge rejected an argument that the agreement was champertous, saying it was necessary to consider the role played by the consultants to see whether the nature of their interest in the outcome carried with it any tendency to sully the purity of justice.\nThe opportunity for the consultants to influence the outcome was limited, as solicitors and counsel were instructed. It was relevant that it was the practice in this market to be remunerated on a similar basis.\n\n2001\n\nStocznia Gdanska v Latreefers\n\nFunders agreed to finance commercial litigation in exchange for 55% of the proceeds.\nThey agreed to pay the between-the-parties costs if the litigation failed. They also had a prior commercial interest in the litigation because they were already owed money under an agreement which successful litigation would enable them to recover.\nThe defendants sought a stay of the proceedings on the ground of champerty. Although the Court of Appeal did not have to decide whether or not the agreement was champertous, it was strongly of the view that it was not, because the alleged disproportion was more theoretical than real, the funders were undertaking a very substantial potential costs liability, they had a pre-existing interest in the subject-matter of the claim and they would not be able to influence the conduct of the litigation because that, including any negotiations, was in the hands of experienced solicitors\n1994\n\nGiles v Thompson [1994]\n\nConsidered champerty and the correct question of whether in accordance with contemporary public policy, the funding agreement has in fact caused the corruption of public justice.\n\n1987\n\nGuinness Peat Properties Ltd and G.M. Group Finance Ltd v The Fitzroy Partnership\n\nConsidered whether a document prepared for a third party was privileged. In this instance the third party was an insurance company, but the judgment bears relevance for all third parties because it sheds light on how the concept of the “dominant purpose” of a document will be interpreted in such circumstances. In this instance, the document was a notice of a potential claim under an insurance contract, sent to the insurer, who would then send it on to their legal advisors to obtain an opinion on the merits of the potential claim.\nThe Court of Appeal decided that the document attracted litigation privilege because at the time it was created, litigation had commenced and the document was created for the dominant purpose of obtaining advice in relation to that litigation. It was held that, when looking at the dominant purpose of a document, it was necessary for the Courts to take a wider view; the entire context of the creation of the document should be considered. In particular, the Court of Appeal held that it was important to look at the motivation of the party requiring the document to be created (which was that it would be used by the insurer for the purpose of obtaining legal advice) and not simply the intention of those composing or preparing the document (which was in order to fulfil its obligation to notify the insurer). The document prepared for the third party was therefore held to be privileged\n\n1982\n\nTrendtex Trading Corp v Credit Suisse\n\nAlthough there was a champertous element in the funding agreement it contained a clause giving the Swiss courts exclusive jurisdiction and there was room for the operation of this clause notwithstanding the element of champerty.\n\n1955\n\nMartell v Consett Iron Company\n\nStates that a defendant shall not be entitled to stay proceedings even if a funding agreement is deemed champertous.\n\n1880\n\nSeear v Lawson\n\nFunding endorsed in the United Kingdom in the context of insolvencies.\n\n2017\n\nThe Ministry of Justice for the United Kingdom confirmed that it would not impose statutory regulations on third party litigation funders, opting instead to allow funders to continue functioning under the current voluntary scheme.\n\nSingapore passed legislation permitting funding in support of international arbitrations and related proceedings. The legislation formally abolished the torts of maintenance and champerty and declared that litigation funding contracts are enforceable in Singapore courts and tribunals.\n\nHong Kong passed the landmark Arbitration and Mediation Legislation Ordinance 2017, setting out the framework for third party funding for arbitrations and mediations in Hong Kong. \n\nThe U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California declined to adopt a proposal requiring automatic disclosure of third-party funding arrangements in every civil case filed there, instead limiting required disclosure of the presence of a funder only to class, collective or representative actions. \n\n2013\n\nThe Damages-Based Agreements Regulations came into force on 1 April 2013 and govern the use of Damages-Based Agreements (DBAs) in UK litigation. DBAs are agreements between a lawyer and a client under which the lawyer’s agreed fee is contingent upon the success of the case and is determined as a percentage of the compensation received by the client. DBAs were not permitted in the UK in contentious work, except for employment claims, until 1 April 2013. \n\n2012 \n\nThe American Bar Association publishes its 20/20 Ethics Commission White Paper condoning litigation funding. \n\n2011\n\nThe regulatory body responsible for litigation funding and ensuring compliance with the Code is formed, namely the Association of Litigation Funders (ALF). The members of ALF have adopted the Code and undertake to comply at all times with it.\n\n2011\n\nA Code of Conduct for Litigation Funders was launched, which sets out the standards of best practice and behaviour for litigation funders in the UK.\nThe Code of Conduct provides transparency to claimants and their solicitors. It requires litigation funders to provide satisfactory answers to certain key questions before entering into relationships with claimants.\nUnder the Code, litigation funders are required to give assurances to claimants that, among other things, the litigation funder will not try to take control of the litigation, the litigation funder has the money to pay for the costs of the funded litigation and the litigation funder will not terminate funding absent a material adverse development.\nThe Code has been approved by Lord Justice Jackson and commended by the Chair of the Civil Justice Council, Lord Neuberger of Abbotsbury, the President of the Supreme Court.\n\n2010\nChapter 11 of the Jackson Review of Civil Litigation Costs was published, effectively providing judicial endorsement to litigation funding.\n\n2009\n\nIn a keynote address Lord Neuberger of Abbotsbury, the then Master of the Rolls and now President of the Supreme Court, referred to the importance of ADR and the Lord Justice Jackson’s review of civil litigation costs.\n\n2007\n\nThe Civil Justice Council, an Advisory Public Body established under the Civil Procedure Act 1997 with responsibility for overseeing and coordinating the modernisation of the civil justice system, published a report recommending the acceptance of litigation funding.\n\n2006\n\nIn Campbells Cash and Carry Pty Limited v Fostif Pty Ltd (2006) 229 CLR 386 the High Court held that litigation funding was not an abuse of process or contrary to public policy. The joint judgment of the assenting judges held that in those jurisdictions which had abolished maintenance and champerty as crimes and/or torts (i.e. Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales, South Australia and Victoria), the concept of public policy or abuse of process could not be used to found a challenge to proceedings being maintained. As a result of this decision, it was clear that, absent special circumstances, litigation funding arrangements would no longer be declared void as contrary to public policy. \n\n1995\n\nAustralia provides a legislative exception allowing insolvency practitioners to use funding. Commercial litigation funding companies emerged to service the new market, eventually funding plaintiffs’ suits outside of the insolvency process.\n\n1787\n\nLegal reformer Jeremy Bentham declares that restrictions against litigation funding are a “barbarous precaution” born out of a “barbarous age”.\n\n"}
{"id": "23066366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23066366", "title": "Maritime Analysis and Operations Centre", "text": "Maritime Analysis and Operations Centre\n\nThe Maritime Analysis and Operations Centre (MAOC) (or Maritime Analysis and Operations Centre - Narcotics), based in Lisbon, is an international agency set up to coordinate anti-drug trafficking action by several European Union states with financial support from the Prevention against Crime Programme of the European Union, European Commission – Directorate -General Home Affairs. The participating states are Portugal, Spain, United Kingdom, Ireland, France, the Netherlands and Italy. The centre has been active since 1 April 2006. The Agreement that established MAOC (N) states that the Centre is to provide a forum for multi-lateral cooperation to suppress illicit drug trafficking by sea and air. The Centre aims to use intelligence on drug smuggling operations, by air or sea, to apply the most suitable military and/or law enforcement teams to respond to situations that arise. Its area of operations is the eastern Atlantic, from the Cape of Good Hope in Southern Africa to the Norwegian Sea.The Lisbon headquarters is staffed by Country Liaison Officers (CLOs) representing the police, customs, military and maritime authorities of the participating European nations, as well as by permanent observer from the United States through the Joint Interagency Task Force South (JIATFS). The European Commission, Europol, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) are observers of the MAOC (N), as well as Canada, Cape Verde, Germany, Greece, and Morocco. MAOC (N) is headed by an Executive Director and guided by an Executive Board.\n\nThe United Kingdom has allocated a team of three from its Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA); a SOCA officer serves as the Centre's first Director until October 2009. For the British, this was expected to build on the existing strong relationship between SOCA and the Royal Navy. Ireland's representation is a combined one from the Irish Drugs Joint Task Force of the Garda Síochána (Irish police), the Irish Customs Service and the Irish Naval Service. Personnel from Europol (on behalf of the European Union) and the US Joint Interagency Task Force (JIATF) are also present at the Centre to offer liaison and technical expertise.\n\nThe costs of the MAOC are shared between the participating states (aggregate 30% of total) and an EC Action Grant which covers the remaining 70% (€661,000). In 2007-8, each state contributed an initial €35,000 followed a year later by a further €5,800 (approx) to cover a shortfall.\n\nAbout twenty operations were executed in MAOC's first six months, resulting in 10 seizures totalling more than 10 tonnes of cocaine. \n\nIn an operation in June, 2007, 840 kilograms of cocaine were seized aboard a Brazilian flagged vessel which was intercepted by the French Navy, acting on UK intelligence. The vessel, drugs and prisoners were returned to Brazil for prosecution. \n\nOn 3 September 2010 British police acting on intelligence from the French Central Office against Illegal Narcotics Trafficking (OCRTIS) and supported by the Royal Navy’s HMS Gloucester recovered around 30 kilos of cocaine which had been concealed inside the rudder of the yacht ‘Tortuga’.\n\nThe Irish Joint Task Force on Drug Interdiction co-operated with MAOC and SOCA in Operation Sea Bight which intercepted a large consignment of cocaine off the Irish coast.\nIn its first 4 years of operations MAOC (N) supported the seizure of over 50 tonnes of cocaine and over 40 tonnes of cannabis.\n"}
{"id": "4186533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4186533", "title": "Metropolitan Police Act 1829", "text": "Metropolitan Police Act 1829\n\nThe Metropolitan Police Act 1829 (10 Geo.4, c.44) was an Act of Parliament introduced by Sir Robert Peel. The Act established the Metropolitan Police of London (with the exception of the City), replacing the previously disorganized system of parish constables and watchmen. The Act was the enabling legislation for what is often considered to be the first modern police force, the \"bobbies\" or \"peelers\" (after Peel), which served as the model for modern urban police departments throughout England. Until the 1829 Act, the Statute of Winchester of 1285 was cited as the primary legislation regulating the policing of the country since the Norman Conquest.\n\nIt is one of the Metropolitan Police Acts 1829 to 1895.\n\nSection 1 of the Act established a Police Office for the Metropolis, to be under two commissioners who were to be Justices of the Peace.\n\nSection 4, constituted the Metropolitan Police District (MPD) from the Liberty of Westminster and parts of the counties of Middlesex, Surrey and Kent, and stated that \"a sufficient number of fit and able men shall from time to time, by the direction of His Majesty's Secretaries of State, be appointed as a Police Force for the whole of such district ...\" The constables were to have power not only within the MPD, but also throughout Middlesex, Surrey, Hertfordshire, Essex and Kent.\n\nSection 6 made it an offence for the owner of a public house to harbour a police officer during his hours of duty.\n\nSection 7 outlined the powers of the new police force. A constable was empowered to apprehend \"all loose, idle and disorderly Persons whom he shall find disturbing the public Peace, or whom he shall have just Cause to suspect of any evil Designs, and all Persons whom he shall find between sunset and the Hour of Eight in the Forenoon lying in any Highway, Yard, or other Place, or loitering therein, and not giving a satisfactory Account of themselves ...\"\n\nSection 8 made it an offence to assault or resist a police officer, with the penalty of a fine not exceeding five pounds.\n\nOther sections dealt with arrangements for the handing over of police powers in the various parishes, with existing \"watchmen and night police\" to continue until the commissioners indicated that the Metropolitan Police were ready to assume responsibility for the area. Overseers in the parishes were to levy a Police Rate on all persons liable to pay the Poor Rate, not to exceed eight pence in the pound.\n\nSection 34 of the Act allowed other parishes to be added to the Metropolitan Police District by Order in Council. Any place in Middlesex, Surrey, Hertfordshire, Essex or Kent within twelve miles of Charing Cross could be added.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10830607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10830607", "title": "Minnesota Starvation Experiment", "text": "Minnesota Starvation Experiment\n\nThe Minnesota Starvation Experiment, also known as the Minnesota Semi-Starvation Experiment, the Minnesota Starvation-Recovery Experiment and the Starvation Study, was a clinical study performed at the University of Minnesota between November 19, 1944 and December 20, 1945. The investigation was designed to determine the physiological and psychological effects of severe and prolonged dietary restriction and the effectiveness of dietary rehabilitation strategies.\n\nThe motivation of the study was twofold: first, to produce a definitive treatise on the subject of human starvation based on a laboratory simulation of severe famine and, second, to use the scientific results produced to guide the Allied relief assistance to famine victims in Europe and Asia at the end of World War II. It was recognized early in 1944 that millions of people were in grave danger of mass famine as a result of the conflict, and information was needed regarding the effects of semi-starvation—and the impact of various rehabilitation strategies—if postwar relief efforts were to be effective.\n\nThe study was developed in coordination with the Civilian Public Service (CPS) and the Selective Service System and used 36 men selected from a pool of over 200 CPS volunteers.\n\nThe study was divided into three phases: A twelve-week control phase, where physiological and psychological observations were collected to establish a baseline for each subject; a 24-week starvation phase, during which the caloric intake of each subject was drastically reduced—causing each participant to lose an average of 25% of their pre-starvation body weight; and finally a recovery phase, in which various rehabilitative diets were tried to re-nourish the volunteers. Two subjects were dismissed for failing to maintain the dietary restrictions imposed during the starvation phase of the experiment, and the data for two others were not used in the analysis of the results.\n\nIn 1950, Ancel Keys and his colleagues published the results of the Minnesota Starvation Experiment in a two-volume, 1,385 page text entitled \"The Biology of Human Starvation\" (University of Minnesota Press). While this definitive treatise came too late to substantially impact postwar recovery efforts, preliminary pamphlets containing key results from the Minnesota Starvation Experiment were produced and used extensively by aid workers in Europe and Asia in the months following the cessation of hostilities.\n\nAncel Keys was the lead investigator of the Minnesota Starvation Experiment. He was responsible for the general supervision of the activities in the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene and was directly responsible for the X-ray analysis and administrative work for the project. Keys founded the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene at the University of Minnesota in 1940 after leaving positions at Harvard's Fatigue Laboratory and the Mayo Clinic. Starting in 1941, he served as a special assistant to the U.S. Secretary of War and worked with the Army to develop rations for troops in combat (K-rations). Keys served as Director for the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene for 26 years, and retired in 1972 after a distinguished 36-year career at the University of Minnesota.\n\nOlaf Mickelsen was responsible for the chemical analyses conducted in the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene during the Starvation Study, and the daily dietary regime of the CPS subjects—including the supervision of the kitchen and its staff. During the study, he was an associate professor of biochemistry and physiological hygiene at the University of Minnesota and received his Ph.D. in biochemistry from the University of Wisconsin in 1939.\n\nHenry Longstreet Taylor had the major responsibility of recruiting the 36 CPS volunteers used in the Minnesota Starvation Experiment, maintaining the morale of the participants and their involvement in the study. During the study he collaborated with Austin Henschel in conducting the physical performance, respiration and postural tests. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota in 1941 and joined the faculty at the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene, where he held a joint appointment with the Department of Physiology. His research concentrated on problems in cardiovascular physiology, temperature regulation, metabolism and nutrition, aging and cardiovascular epidemiology.\n\nAustin Henschel shared the responsibility of screening the CPS volunteers with Taylor for selection in the Minnesota Starvation Experiment and, in addition, had charge of the blood morphology and scheduling all the tests and measurements of the subjects during the course of the study. He was a member of the faculty in the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene and the Department of Medicine at the University of Minnesota.\n\nJosef Brožek (1914–2004) was responsible for psychological studies during the Starvation Study, including the psychomotor tests, anthropometric measurements and statistical analysis of the results. Brožek received his PhD from Charles University in Prague, Czechoslovakia in 1937. He emigrated to the United States in 1939 and joined the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene at the University of Minnesota in 1941, where he served in a succession of posts over a 17-year period. His research in the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene concerned malnutrition and behavior, visual illumination and performance, and aging.\n\nAn essential ingredient for the successful execution of the Minnesota Starvation Experiment was the availability of a sufficient number of healthy volunteers willing to subject themselves to the year-long invasion of privacy, nutritional deprivation and physical and mental hardship necessary to complete the study. From the outset, the experiment was planned in cooperation with the Civilian Public Service and the Selective Service System, with the intention of using volunteers selected from the ranks of conscientious objectors already inducted into public wartime service. Keys obtained approval from the War Department to select participants from the CPS.\n\nIn early 1944, a recruitment brochure was drafted and distributed within the network of CPS work camps throughout the United States. Over 400 men volunteered to participate in the study as an alternative to military service; of these, about 100 were selected for detailed examination. Drs. Taylor, Brožek, and Henschel from the Minnesota Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene traveled to the various CPS units to interview the potential candidates and administer physical and psychological tests to the volunteers. 36 men were ultimately selected who demonstrated evidence of the required mental and physical health, the ability to get along reasonably well within a group while enduring deprivation and hardship, and sufficient commitment to the relief and rehabilitation objectives of the investigation to complete the study. The subjects were all white males, with ages ranging from 22 to 33 years old.\n\nOf the 36 volunteer subjects, 15 were members of the Historic Peace Churches (Mennonites, Church of the Brethren and Quakers). Others were there, including Methodists, Presbyterians, Baptists, and one each Jewish, Episcopalian, Evangelical & Reformed, Disciples of Christ, Congregational, and Evangelical Mission Covenant, along with two participants without a declared religion.\n\nThe 36 CPS participants in the Minnesota Starvation Experiment were: William Anderson, Harold Blickenstaff, Wendell Burrous, Edward Cowles, George Ebeling, Carlyle Frederick, Jasper Garner, Lester Glick, James Graham, Earl Heckman, Roscoe Hinkle, Max Kampelman, Sam Legg, Phillip Liljengren, Howard Lutz, Robert McCullagh, William McReynolds, Dan Miller, L. Wesley Miller, Richard Mundy, Daniel Peacock, James Plaugher, Woodrow Rainwater, Donald Sanders, Cedric (Henry) Scholberg, Charles Smith, William Stanton, Raymond Summers, Marshall Sutton, Kenneth Tuttle, Robert Villwock, William Wallace, Franklin Watkins, W. Earl Weygandt, Robert Wiloughby and Gerald Wilsnack.\n\nThe primary objective of the Minnesota Starvation Experiment was to study in detail the physical and psychological effects of prolonged, famine-like semi-starvation on healthy men, as well as their subsequent rehabilitation from this condition. To achieve these goals, the 12-month study was divided into four distinct phases:\n\n\nDuring the starvation period, the subjects received two meals per day designed to induce the same level of nutritional stress for each participant. Since each subject had distinct metabolic characteristics, the diet of each man was adjusted throughout the starvation period to produce roughly a 25% total weight loss over the 24-week period.\n\nThe researchers tracked each subject's weight as a function of time elapsed since the beginning of the starvation period. For each subject, the weight versus time plot was expected—as well as enforced—to form a particular curve, the \"prediction weight-loss curve\", whose characteristics were decided before the commencement of the experiment. The postulated curves turned out to be quite predictive for most subjects. If a subject did veer off his curve in any given week, his caloric intake for the next week would be adjusted, by varying the amount of bread and potatoes, to bring him back to the curve; however, the required adjustments were usually minor. The shapes of the curves were chosen \"based on the concept that the rate of weight loss would progressively decrease and reach a relative plateau\" at the final weight.\n\nFor each subject, the weight vs. time curve was taken to be quadratic in time (in fact, an upward-opening parabola) with the minimum located at 24 weeks, at which point the weight is supposed to be equal to the final target body weight (the minimum is where the curve has zero slope; this corresponds to the \"plateau\" mentioned above). Mathematically, this means that the curve for each subject was given by\n\nwhere formula_2 is the time (measured in weeks) elapsed since the beginning of the starvation period, formula_3 is the subject's weight at time formula_2, and formula_5 is the final weight that the subject was supposed to reach at the end of the 24-week period. The constant formula_6 is determined by the requirement that formula_7 be the initial weight formula_8, i.e. by solving\n\nfor formula_6; this gives\n\nThe authors expressed this in terms of the percent total weight loss formula_12,\n\n(which, as stated above, was supposed to be about 25% for all subjects), obtaining\n\nThroughout the duration of the study each man was assigned specific work tasks, was expected to walk each week and required to keep a personal diary. An extensive battery of tests was periodically administered, including the collection of metabolic and physical measurements; X-ray examinations; treadmill performance; and intelligence and psychological evaluation.\n\nThe full report of results from the Minnesota Starvation Experiment was published in 1950 in a two-volume, 1,385-page text entitled \"The Biology of Human Starvation\" (University of Minnesota Press). The 50-chapter work contains an extensive analysis of the physiological and psychological data collected during the study, and a comprehensive literature review.\n\nAmong the conclusions from the study was the confirmation that prolonged semi-starvation produces significant increases in depression, hysteria and hypochondriasis as measured using the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory. Indeed, most of the subjects experienced periods of severe emotional distress and depression. There were extreme reactions to the psychological effects during the experiment including self-mutilation (one subject amputated three fingers of his hand with an axe, though the subject was unsure if he had done so intentionally or accidentally). Participants exhibited a preoccupation with food, both during the starvation period and the rehabilitation phase. Sexual interest was drastically reduced, and the volunteers showed signs of social withdrawal and isolation. The participants reported a decline in concentration, comprehension and judgment capabilities, although the standardized tests administered showed no actual signs of diminished capacity. This ought not, however, to be taken as an indication that capacity to work, study and learn will not be affected by starvation or intensive dieting. There were marked declines in physiological processes indicative of decreases in each subject's basal metabolic rate (the energy required by the body in a state of rest), reflected in reduced body temperature, respiration and heart rate. Some of the subjects exhibited edema in their extremities, presumably due to decreased levels of plasma proteins given that the body's ability to construct key proteins like albumin is based on available energy sources.\n\nOne of the crucial observations of the Minnesota Starvation Experiment discussed by a number of researchers in the nutritional sciences—including Ancel Keys—is that the physical effects of the induced semi-starvation during the study closely approximate the conditions experienced by people with a range of eating disorders such as anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa. As a result of the study it has been postulated that many of the profound social and psychological effects of these disorders may result from undernutrition, and recovery depends on physical re-nourishment as well as psychological treatment.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3233993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3233993", "title": "Mobay", "text": "Mobay\n\nMobay Chemical Corporation, based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, was a joint venture of Monsanto Company and Bayer to market polyurethanes in the United States. Founded in 1954, Bayer bought out Monsanto's shares in the company in the 1970s.\n\nMobay, along with Miles Laboratories, was a member of Bayer's menagerie of companies in the US while Bayer did not own the US rights to its name.\n\nAfter a first failed attempt of appearing under the \"Bayer USA Inc.\" name in the US, Bayer consolidated its US operations under the \"Miles\" name in 1992.\n\nMobay was one of the suppliers of the dioxin-contaminated 2,4,5-T used to produce the Agent Orange sprayed in Operation Ranch Hand (1962-1972). Prior to the Gulf War, in April 1990, Mobay and Occidental Chemical Corporation refused to sell chemicals to the Department of Defense for military use (particularly, with thionyl chloride, a chemical needed for the production of sarin.) The government unleashed the dogs upon the disobedient company, considering filing suit against Mobay and Occidental for violating Title III of the Defense Production Act of 1950, which gives the government the power to requisition supplies for warfare. According to congresswoman Helen Delich Bentley (Rep., MD), when challenged, “they told the Army, ‘It is policy—so sue us.’”\n"}
{"id": "13441698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13441698", "title": "Mudcrete", "text": "Mudcrete\n\nMudcrete is a structural material (employed, for example, as a basecourse in road construction) made by mixing mud (usually marine mud) with sand and concrete/cement. It is used as a cheaper and more sustainable alternative to rock fill. It is also used in such projects as land reclamation.\n"}
{"id": "18409729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18409729", "title": "National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund", "text": "National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund\n\nThe National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund provides deposit insurance to protect the accounts of credit union members at federally insured institutions in the United States. Created in 1970, the Share Insurance Fund is administered by the National Credit Union Administration, an independent federal financial regulator. The Share Insurance Fund is funded completely by participating credit unions, and not one penny of insured savings has ever been lost by a member of a federally insured credit union. The Share Insurance Fund is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government.\n\nAs of December 2016, Share Insurance Fund insured an estimated $1 trillion in member shares in more than 5,800 federally insured credit unions.\n\nIn 1970, Congress approved, and President Richard M. Nixon signed, Public Law 91-206 (see 12 U.S.C. §§ 1781–1790(c)), creating the National Credit Union Administration as an independent federal financial regulator. Soon after, Congress established the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund and made NCUA responsible for its administration.\n\nThe Share Insurance Fund is approximately $13 billion in total, made up of $2.8 billion in retained earnings and approximately $10 billion in contributed capital from credit unions. Contributed capital is the one percent of insured shares deposited by each federal credit union, as well as all federally insured, state-chartered credit unions. The Federal Credit Union Act requires the NCUA Board to set a target equity ratio of at least 1.20 percent and no more than 1.50 percent of total insured deposits. It is NCUA Board policy that the normal operating equity ratio is 1.30 percent.\n\nThe majority of the fund is invested in United States treasury securities, with a portion of the earnings being used to fund NCUA’s operations. NCUA gets about $200 million of its current budget from the Share Insurance Fund, with the remainder coming from operating fees charged to regulated credit unions.\n\nIn the event that the equity ratio of the fund falls below 1.20 percent, the Federal Credit Union Act requires the NCUA Board to charge credit unions a premium or to develop and implement a restoration plan for the fund. The NCUA Board has discretion whether to charge a premium when the equity ratio is between 1.20 percent and 1.30 percent.\n\nNCUA has assessed a Share Insurance Fund premium three times since the Fund was recapitalized in 1984: 1991, 2009 and 2010.\n\nThe Share Insurance Fund protects members’ accounts in federally insured credit unions in the event of a credit union failure. The fund insures the balance of each members’ account, dollar-for dollar, up to the standard maximum share insurance amount of $250,000. NCUA insurance covers all types of member shares received by a credit union including:\n\n\nNCUA publishes a variety of helpful resources for consumers to better understand insurance coverage on their deposits at federally insured credit unions, including:\n\nThe Share Insurance Fund also provides funding when a credit union is no longer able to continue operating, the credit union will be liquidated and the NCUSIF will pay member shares up to $250,000.\n\nSince the passage of the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 deposits were insured for up to $100,000 per insured account, or $250,000 for certain retirement accounts.\n\nThe passage of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 increased the amount of covered shares to $250,000 until the end of 2013. This increase was made permanent by the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in July 2010.\n"}
{"id": "40110539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40110539", "title": "National stereotypes", "text": "National stereotypes\n\nThere are many stereotypes surrounding individual nations. X's stereotype for Y may be different from Z's. The stereotypes may have kernels of truth to them, but they are not wholly correct, and so are heavily misleading. In some cases, negative stereotypes have been spread by one country in order to discredit another. Sometimes countries may promote national stereotypes about themselves in order to instill a sense of patriotism, for examples in wars when an us-vs.-them mentality is often favoured.\n\nAn NBC.com article on the validity of national stereotypes suggests that \"the stereotypes we all know and love, like the \"French lover\" and \"the icy Brit,\" were mostly created by literature\". It explained that \"partly because of such \"dirty books,\" and partly due to French PR, France got the reputation of being sexually free\", and offered evidence to the contrary with a recent survey that showed \"76 percent of the French sometimes suffer from lack of sexual response\".\n\nAccording to an article by \"The Guardian\" entitled \"European stereotypes: what do we think of each other and are we right? - interactive\", the Europe stereotype towards Britain is as \"drunken, semi-clad hooligans or else snobbish, stiff free marketers\", their view towards France is \"cowardly, arrogant, chauvinistic, erotomaniacs\", and they see Germany as \"uber-efficient, diligent [and] disciplined\". To Europe, Italy is \"tax-dodging, Berlusconi-style and mama's boys, incapable of bravery\", Poland is \"heavy-drinking ultracatholics with a whiff of antisemitism\", and Spain is \"macho men and fiery woman prone to regular siestas and fiestas\". While some countries such as Germany proudly own their stereotype, others like Spain argue that theirs is a warped view based on experiences while on holiday instead of having actually lived there.\n\nA Pew Global survey of the European countries Britain, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Greece, Poland, and the Czech Republic found that European stereotypes found Germany to be both the most hardworking and least corrupt, Greece to be the least hardworking, and Italy to be the most corrupt. It is also worth noting that 5 out of the 8 countries thought their own country was the most corrupt.\n\nYanko Tsvetkov has designed many maps which serve as pictorial representations of such stereotypes, giving an impression of how certain regions of the world may view others. They have named such as \"The Arab Winter\" and \"Crystal Ball View Of Europe In 2022\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43672392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43672392", "title": "Networks and States", "text": "Networks and States\n\nNetworks and States: The Global Politics of Internet Governance is a 2010 book by Professor at the Syracuse University School of Information Studies Milton L. Muller. This book shows an influence of networks on the government.\n\n"}
{"id": "58116031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58116031", "title": "Nuremberg Moot", "text": "Nuremberg Moot\n\nThe Nuremberg Moot is an international moot court competition. Held partially at the Nuremberg Palace of Justice and organised by the International Nurmemberg Principles Academy and University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, this competition now attracts around 60 teams from around the world annually. Participants make submissions as though they are before the International Criminal Court.\n"}
{"id": "1721157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1721157", "title": "People's Budget", "text": "People's Budget\n\nThe 1909/1910 People's Budget was a proposal of the Liberal government that introduced unprecedented taxes on the lands and high incomes of Britain's wealthy to fund new social welfare programmes. It passed the House of Commons in 1909 but was blocked by the House of Lords for a year and became law in April 1910.\n\nIt was championed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, David Lloyd George, and his young ally Winston Churchill, who was then President of the Board of Trade and a fellow Liberal; called the \"Terrible Twins\" by certain Conservative contemporaries.\n\nChurchill's biographer, William Manchester, called the People's Budget \"a revolutionary concept\" because it was the first budget in British history with the expressed intent of redistributing wealth equally amongst the British population. It was a key issue of contention between the Liberal government and the Conservative-dominated House of Lords, leading to two general elections in 1910 and the enactment of the Parliament Act 1911.\n\nThe Budget was introduced in the British Parliament by David Lloyd George on 29 April 1909. Lloyd George argued that the People's Budget would eliminate poverty, and commended it thus:\n\nThe budget included several proposed tax increases to fund the Liberal welfare reforms. Income tax was held at nine pence in the pound (9d, or 3.75%) on incomes less than £2,000, which was equivalent to £ in today's money—but a higher rate of one shilling (12d, or 5%) was proposed on incomes greater than £2,000, and an additional surcharge or supertax of 6d (a further 2.5%) was proposed on the amount by which incomes of £5,000 (£ today) or more exceeded £3,000 (£ today). An increase was also proposed in death duties and naval rearmament.\n\nMore controversially, the Budget also included a proposal for the introduction of complete land valuation and a 20% tax on increases in value when land changed hands. Land taxes were based on the ideas of the American tax reformer Henry George. This would have had a major effect on large landowners, and the Conservative-Unionist opposition, many of whom were large landowners, had had an overwhelming majority in the Lords since the Liberal split in 1886. Furthermore, the Conservatives believed that money should be raised through the introduction of tariffs on imports, which would benefit British industry and trade within the Empire, and raise revenue for social reforms at the same time (protectionism); but this was also unpopular as it would have meant higher prices on imported food. According to economic theory, such tariffs would have been very beneficial for landowners, especially tariffs on agricultural produce, but the costs to ordinary consumers would have exceeded the gains to these landowners (see Corn Laws).\n\nThe Northcliffe Press (who published both \"The Times\" and the \"Daily Mail\") urged rejection of the budget to give tariff reform a chance. There were many public meetings, some of them organised by dukes, which portrayed the budget as the thin end of the socialist wedge. Lloyd George gave a speech at Limehouse (July 1909) in which he said that \"a equipped duke costs as much to keep up as two dreadnoughts\"—but was \"much less easy to scrap\". The Conservatives wanted to force an election by rejecting the budget.\n\nThe Lords were entitled by convention to reject, but not to amend, a money bill, but had not rejected a budget for two centuries. Originally the budget had included only annual renewals of existing taxes—any amendment to taxes was part of a separate Act. This ended in 1861 (William Ewart Gladstone was Chancellor at the time) when the Lords rejected the repeal of paper duties—which would have benefited new cheaper newspapers, aimed at men who hoped soon to be given the right to vote, at the expense of existing papers. From then on, all taxes were included in the Finance Bill, and no such bill had been rejected, not even the controversial introduction of death duties by Sir William Harcourt in 1894.\n\nDespite the King's private urgings that the budget be passed to avoid a crisis, the House of Lords vetoed the new budget on 30 November 1909, although they were clear that they would pass it as soon as the Liberals obtained an electoral mandate for it. The Liberals countered by proposing to reduce the power of the Lords. This was the main issue of the general election in January 1910, setting the stage for a tremendous showdown, which Lloyd George and Churchill relished.\n\nDespite the heated rhetoric, opinion in the country was divided. The Unionists with 47% of the votes were outpolled by the Liberals and their allies from the Labour Party. The outcome was a hung parliament, with the Liberals relying on Labour and the Irish Parliamentary Party for their parliamentary majority.\n\nAs the price for their continued support, the Irish nationalist MPs demanded measures to remove the Lords' veto so that they could no longer block Irish Home Rule. They even threatened to vote down the Budget in the House of Commons (Irish Nationalists favoured tariff reform and abhorred the planned increase in whisky duty) until Asquith pledged to introduce such measures.\n\nAs they had promised, the Lords accepted the Budget on 28 April 1910—a year to the day after its introduction, but contention between the government and the Lords continued until the second general election in December 1910, when the Unionists were again outpolled by their combined opponents. The result was another hung parliament, with the Liberals again relying on Labour and the Irish Parliamentary Party. Nonetheless, the Lords passed the Parliament Act 1911 when faced with the threat, obtained from a narrowly convinced new King (George V, Edward VII having died on 6 May 1910, seven days after the Budget was passed), that it would be acceptable to flood the House of Lords with hundreds of new Liberal Party peers to give that party a majority or near-majority there.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40728440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40728440", "title": "Presidential committee on young generation", "text": "Presidential committee on young generation\n\n\"The Presidential Committee on Young Generation (PCYG)\" is an advisory board that is directly affiliated to the president of the Republic of Korea. It is led by Minwoo Nam, head of the Korea Venture Business Association and CEO of Dasan Networks. The committee, established on July 13, 2013, advises the President on Young Generation (YG) issues such as job creation, communications with the YG, and policy making.\n\nPresidential decree on the establishment of the PCYG \n\nThe committee was formed to strengthen communications between the government and the young generation (YG), to make policy-making processes for the YG more effective. The government has defined the YG as those aged between 19~39. The major role of the committee, is to advise the president about policy-making issues on the YG. Having ‘Field, People, and Collective Labour’ as its main theme for the operation, the committee also takes a role as a mediator between the government departments throughout the policy-making processes related to YG issues.\n\nThe PCYG has two divisions; the \"committee board\" and the \"working group\". The committee board consists of 24 members, including nineteen civilian and five governmental members. The members include young leaders with wide experience in various fields, including young entrepreneurs, international volunteers and mentoring activities. The committee board has three sub-committees, whose titles are shown in the organizational structure on the right-hand side. The working group is divided into the two teams, ‘policy team’ and ‘communications team.’\nThe PCYG functions in the following three areas;\n\nThe PCYG collects voices from the YG in various fields and discusses the raised issues. It then gathers opinions from the government departments on the issues and mediates between them to report to the president. After the reports, it monitors policy practices executed by the departments and receives feedback from them.\n\nPresidential Committee on Young Generation\n12th floor, KT Building, Sejong-roh 100, Jongno-gu, Seoul.\n\nPCYG webpage \n"}
{"id": "1545961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1545961", "title": "Presumption", "text": "Presumption\n\nIn the law of evidence, a presumption of a particular fact can be made without the aid of proof in some situations. The invocation of a presumption shifts the burden of proof from one party to the opposing party in a court trial.\n\nThere are two types of presumption: rebuttable presumption and conclusive presumption. A rebuttable presumption is assumed true until a person proves otherwise (for example the presumption of innocence). In contrast, a conclusive (or irrebuttable) presumption cannot be refuted in any case (such as defense of infancy in some legal systems).\n\nPresumptions are sometimes categorized into two types: presumptions without basic facts, and presumptions with basic facts. In the United States, mandatory presumptions are impermissible in criminal cases, but permissible presumptions are allowed.\n\nAn example of presumption without basic facts is presumption of innocence.\n\nAn example of presumption \"with\" basic facts is Declared death in absentia, e.g., the law says if a person has been missing for seven years or more (basic fact), that person is presumed dead.\n\nThe ancient Jewish law code, the Talmud, included reasoning from presumptions (\"hazakah\"), propositions taken to be true unless there was reason to believe otherwise, such as \"One does not ordinarily pay a debt before term.\"\n\nThe same concept was found in ancient Roman law, where, for example, if there was doubt as to whether a child was really the issue of someone who had left money in a will, the presumption was in favour of the child. Medieval Roman and canon law graded presumptions according to strength: light, medium or probable, and violent. These gradings and many individual presumptions were taken over into English law in the seventeenth century by Edward Coke.\n\nA number of presumptions are found in most common law jurisdictions. Examples of these presumptions include:\n"}
{"id": "14620731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14620731", "title": "Pure economic loss", "text": "Pure economic loss\n\nEconomic loss is a term of art which refers to financial loss and damage suffered by a person such as can be seen only on a balance sheet rather than as physical injury to the person or destruction of property. There is a fundamental distinction between pure economic loss and consequential economic loss, as pure economic loss occurs independent of any physical damage to the person or property of the victim. It has also been suggested for it to be called \"commercial loss\" as injuries to person or property could be regarded as \"economic\".\n\nExamples of pure economic loss include the following:\n\nThe latter case is exemplified by the English case of \"Spartan Steel and Alloys Ltd v Martin & Co Ltd\". Similar losses are also restricted in German law, though not in French law beyond the normal requirements that a claimant's asserted loss must be certain and directly caused.\n\nRecovery at law for pure economic loss is restricted under some circumstances in some jurisdictions, in particular in tort in common law jurisdictions, for fear that it is potentially unlimited and could represent a \"crushing liability\" against which parties would find it impossible to insure.\n\nIn Australia, the general rule is that damages for economic loss which are not consequential upon damage to person or property are not recoverable in negligence even if the loss is foreseeable. Economic loss may be recoverable in cases where the plaintiff can prove an assumption of responsibility by the defendant and known reliance on the defendant by the plaintiff, or vulnerability in the sense of the inability of the plaintiff to take steps to protect itself from the risk of the loss.\n\nCases in which the High Court has held that economic loss was recoverable include:\n\n\n\n\n\nJustice Cardozo's indeterminacy concerns were relied on by the Supreme Court of Canada to restrict imposing liability on a corporation's auditors for negligently auditing the corporation's financial statements. In Hercules Management v Ernst & Young, [1997] 2 SCR 165. The court determined that the auditors owed investors of the company a duty of care, and that the auditors had been negligent in conducting their audit. However, La Forest J, writing for a unanimous court, declined to impose liability on the auditors for policy reasons, citing Justice Cardozo's concerns over indeterminate liability.\n\nPure economic loss was not recoverable in negligence until 1963 and the decision of the House of Lords in \"Hedley Byrne & Co Ltd v Heller & Partners Ltd\" (1964). Up until \"Hedley Byrne\" was decided, pure economic loss was thought to be entirely within the realm of contract law. From that point on, in jurisdictions following the English common law, it has been possible to recover for some pure economic loss in negligence; however, because purely economic loss can usually be anticipated and allocated differently by contract, the party seeking to be compensated for such loss must demonstrate a compelling reason to change the contractual allocation through tort liability.\n\nIn Malaysia, the Federal Court in \"Majlis Perbandaran Ampang v Steven Phoa Cheng Loon\" [2006] 2 AMR 563 followed the decision in \"Caparo Industries v Dickman\" [1990] UKHL 2 where it held; pure economic loss is claimable if 1) the damage was foreseeable, 2) the relationship between the parties was one of sufficient proximity, and 3) it is fair, just and reasonable to impose a duty of care on the defendant.\n\nIn the United States, Chief Judge Benjamin N. Cardozo of the New York Court of Appeals famously described pure economic loss as \"liability in an indeterminate amount, for an indeterminate time, to an indeterminate class.\" The rule may also be traced back to Roger Traynor's decision in the California case \"Seely v. White Motor Co.\" (1965), and was later adopted by the Supreme Court of the United States in \"East River Steamship Corp V Transamerica Delaval Inc.\" (1986).\n\nA few state supreme courts in the United States have departed from the majority rule and authorized recovery for pure economic loss through tort causes of action (usually negligence). The first was California in 1979, followed later by New Jersey and Alaska.\n\nThe general rule of tort liability under German law is supplied by section 823 of the Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch (BGB), which does not provide for damages for pure economic loss. However, the courts have interpreted BGB provisions imposing liability for harms caused by actions contrary to public policy or statute to allow for pure economic loss damages.\n\nContractual liability for pure economic loss is recognized in German law. As a result, German courts have often turned to a contract theory to impose liability. Such liability may be imposed even without privity of contract.\n\nIn addition, liability for pure economic loss may be imposed under German law in the case of special relationships, such as the relationship of a guardian to a ward, in which the guardian may be subject to liability for pure economic loss if the guardian is at fault.\n\nSweden adopted general principles of tort liability for the first time in 1972 with the adoption of the Tort Liability Act (\"skadeståndslagen\", SKL). Previously, liability had been largely confined to cases in which a crime had been committed. Under the SKL, that limitation continues to apply in cases involving pure economic loss: it is available only when a crime has been committed. However, in more recent decades, some Swedish court decisions have allowed damages for pure economic loss in exceptional circumstances even when there is no underlying crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41207365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41207365", "title": "Secular liberalism", "text": "Secular liberalism\n\nSecular liberalism is the separation of culture and politics from religion. A subcategory of liberalism and secularism, it supports the separation of religion and state particularly from the ideas of the Christian Church. Christian ideals are usually to be found on the opposite end of the spectrum from secular liberalism. Secular liberalism is often connected with standing for social equality and freedom.\n\nAdherents of secular liberalism believe in the disestablishment of the Christian Church. Secular liberalism also depends on the conviction that religious tradition and belief has no binding authority on society. Public promoters of secular liberalism, such as Dawkins call for a clear distinction between the teaching of religion as a historical and cultural phenomenon and the teaching of religion as fact. Dawkins has likened using education to indoctrinate children with a particular religion to child abuse. One of the central tenets of the ideology is separation of church and state. Among those who follow secular liberalism are Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens, Ayaan Hirshi Ali and Sam Harris.\n\nPractices that are considered to be illiberal are reformed in a state that practices secular liberalism. Legal measures have failed in the past because no effort is made to make a concept of the goods that the community has cherished in the past. This lack of reason-giving apparatus is called communitarianism and it used to criticize the liberal state as a coercive organization. Communitarianism essentially advocates a sense of intra-community (community-wide) democracy.\n\nIn a modern democratic society, a plurality of conflicting doctrines share an uneasy co-existence within the framework of civilization.\n\nSecular liberalism is sometimes connected with the Arab Spring protests. One commentator labels it as a \"secular liberal fantasy\". Others have labeled the motivations behind it, and the temporary governments created as a result as secular liberalism.\nOftentimes, participation in the newly crowned democratic governments by the Muslim clerics are ignored in favor of the protesters' secular liberal ideas. Since 2011, more residents of the Middle East have been demanding a greater say in the running of their governments. They want democracy to appear in a uniquely Muslim fashion rather than through some artificial \"secular\" movement.\n\nThe French ban on face covering has been attributed by some to be a result of secular liberalism. The ban by the French Senate on September 14, 2010 outlawed coverings, including religious ones such as the burqa. Some French Muslims have found secular liberalism to be an ideology where prejudice against a minority group is used to win votes. According to the Hizb ut-Tahrir group, based out of the United Kingdom, women are secluded from society and made outcasts in society for trying to be modest. The group has also criticized other European countries for similar bans on religious dress.\n\nThe Vatican and the Moscow Patriarchate are waging a common fight against secular liberalism; claiming that this idea violates the traditional Christian concepts of family and human values by exposing people to medico-biological experiments that are incompatible with their ideas of human dignity. The Primate of the Russian Orthodox Church expressed concern over trends in some Protestant communities towards liberalizing theology and Christian morals; he claims them to be products of secular liberalism.\n\nThe First Amendment of the United States Constitution, offering freedom of speech, has been criticized in a 2004 political manifesto by David Fergusson entitled \"Church, state and civil society\".\n\n"}
{"id": "51806625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51806625", "title": "State v. Leidholm", "text": "State v. Leidholm\n\nState v. Leidholm, Supreme Court of North Dakota, 334 N.W.2d 811 (1983), is a criminal law case distinguishing the subjective and objective standard of reasonableness in a case where a battered woman used self-protection as a defense. Janice Leidholm had killed her husband near Washburn, North Dakota and claimed self defense. The case clarifies between the defenses of justification and excuse. \n"}
{"id": "10568947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10568947", "title": "Tax benefits of debt", "text": "Tax benefits of debt\n\nIn the context of corporate finance, the tax benefits of debt or tax advantage of debt refers to the fact that from a tax perspective it is cheaper for firms and investors to finance with debt than with equity. Under a majority of taxation systems around the world, and until recently under the United States tax system, firms are taxed on their profits and individuals are taxed on their personal income. \n\nFor example, a firm that earns $100 in profits in the United States would have to pay around $30 in taxes. If it then distributes these profits to its owners as dividends, then the owners in turn pay taxes on this income, say $20 on the $70 of dividends. The $100 of profits turned into $50 of investor income.\n\nIf, instead the firm finances with debt, then, assuming the firm owes $100 of interest to investors, its profits are now 0. Investors now pay taxes on their interest income, say $30. This implies for $100 of profits before taxes, investors got $70.\n\nThis tax-related encouragement of debt financing has not gone uncriticized. For example, some critics have argued that the cost of equity should also be deductible; which could reduce the Internal Revenue Code's influence on capital-structure decisions, potentially reducing the economic instability attributable to excessive debt financing.\n\n"}
{"id": "37138028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37138028", "title": "The Right to Privacy (article)", "text": "The Right to Privacy (article)\n\n\"The Right to Privacy\" (4 Harvard L.R. 193 (Dec. 15, 1890)) is a law review article written by Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis, and published in the 1890 \"Harvard Law Review\". It is \"one of the most influential essays in the history of American law\" and is widely regarded as the first publication in the United States to advocate a right to privacy, articulating that right primarily as a \"right to be let alone\".\n\nAlthough credited to both Louis Brandeis and Samuel Warren, the article was apparently written primarily by Brandeis, on a suggestion of Warren based on his \"deep-seated abhorrence of the invasions of social privacy.\" William Prosser, in writing his own influential article on the privacy torts in American law, attributed the specific incident to an intrusion by journalists on a society wedding, but in truth it was inspired by more general coverage of intimate personal lives in society columns of newspapers.\n\n\"The Right to Privacy\" is brief by modern law review standards, comprising only 7222 words, excluding citations.\n\nWarren and Brandeis begin their article by introducing the fundamental principle that \"the individual shall have full protection in person and in property.\" They acknowledge that this is a fluid principle that has been reconfigured over the centuries as a result of political, social, and economic change.\n\nThe first three paragraphs of the essay describe the development of the common law with regard to life and property. Originally, the common law \"right to life\" only provided a remedy for physical interference with life and property. But later, the scope of the \"right to life\" expanded to recognize the \"legal value of sensations.\" For example, the action of battery—a protection against actual bodily injury—gave rise to the action of assault—fear of actual bodily injury. Similarly, the concept of property expanded from protecting only tangible property to intangible property.\n\nBeginning with the fourth paragraph, Warren and Brandeis explain the desirability and necessity that the common law adapt to recent inventions and business methods—namely, the advent of instantaneous photography and the widespread circulation of newspapers, both of which have contributed to the invasion of an individual's privacy. Warren and Brandeis take this opportunity to excoriate the practices of journalists of their time, particularly aiming at society gossip pages:\n\nThe press is overstepping in every direction the obvious bounds of propriety and of decency. Gossip is no longer the resource of the idle and of the vicious, but has become a trade, which is pursued with industry as well as effrontery. To satisfy a prurient taste the details of sexual relations are spread broadcast in the columns of the daily papers. To occupy the indolent, column upon column is filled with idle gossip, which can only be procured by intrusion upon the domestic circle.\n\nThe authors state the purpose of the article: \"It is our purpose to consider whether the existing law affords a principle which can properly be invoked to protect the privacy of the individual; and, if it does, what the nature and extent of such protection is.\"\n\nFirst, Warren and Brandeis examine the law of slander and libel (forms of defamation) to determine if it adequately protects the privacy of the individual. The authors conclude that this body of law is insufficient to protect the privacy of the individual because it \"deals only with damage to reputation.\" In other words, defamation law, regardless of how widely circulated or unsuited to publicity, requires that the individual suffer a direct effect in his or her interaction with other people. The authors write: \"However painful the mental effects upon another of an act, though purely wanton or even malicious, yet if the act itself is otherwise lawful, the suffering inflicted is \"damnum absque injuria\" \" (a loss or harm from something other than a wrongful act and which occasions no legal remedy).\n\nSecond, in the next several paragraphs, the authors examine intellectual property law to determine if its principles and doctrines may sufficiently protect the privacy of the individual. Warren and Brandeis concluded that \"the protection afforded to thoughts, sentiments, and emotions, expressed through the medium of writing or of the arts, so far as it consists in preventing publication, is merely an instance of the enforcement of the more general right of the individual to be let alone.\"\n\nWarren and Brandeis then discuss the origin of what they called a \"right to be let alone\". They explain that the right of property provides the foundation for the right to prevent publication. But at the time the right of property only protected the right of the creator to any profits derived from the publication. The law did not yet recognize the idea that there was value in preventing publication. As a result, the ability to prevent publication did not clearly exist as a right of property.\n\nThe authors proceed to examine case law regarding a person's ability to prevent publication. Warren and Brandeis observed that, although the court in \"Prince Albert v. Strange\" asserted that its decision was based on the protection of property, a close examination of the reasoning reveals the existence of other unspecified rights—that is, the right to be let alone.\n\nIf this conclusion is correct, then existing law does afford \"a principle which may be invoked to protect the privacy of the individual from invasion either by the too enterprising press, the photographer, or the possessor of any other modern device for recording or reproducing scenes or sounds.\"\n\nFurthermore, Warren and Brandeis suggest the existence of a right to privacy based on the jurisdictional justifications used by the courts to protect material from publication. The article states, \"where protection has been afforded against wrongful publication, the jurisdiction has been asserted, not on the ground of property, or at least not wholly on that ground, but upon the ground of an alleged breach of an implied contract or of a trust or confidence.\"\n\nWarren and Brandeis proceed to point out that: \"This protection of implying a term in a contract, or of implying a trust, is nothing more nor less than a judicial declaration that public morality, private justice, and general convenience demand the recognition of such a rule.\" In other words, the courts created a legal fiction that contracts implied a provision against publication or that a relationship of trust mandated nondisclosure.\n\nYet, the article raises a problematic scenario where a casual recipient of a letter, who did not solicit the correspondence, opens and reads the letter. Simply by receiving, opening, and reading a letter the recipient does not create any contract or accept any trust.\n\nWarren and Brandeis argue that courts have no justification to prohibit the publication of such a letter, under existing theories or property rights. Rather, they argue, \"the principle which protects personal writings and any other productions of the intellect or the emotions, is the right to privacy.\"\n\nFinally, Warren and Brandeis consider the remedies and limitations of the newly conceived right to privacy. The authors acknowledge that the exact contours of the new theory are impossible to determine, but several guiding principles from tort law and intellectual property law are applicable.\n\nThe applicable limitations are:\n\n1. \"The right to privacy does not prohibit any publication of matter which is of public or general interest.\" Warren and Brandeis elaborate on this exception to the right to privacy by stating:\n\nIn general, then, the matters of which the publication should be repressed may be described as those which concern the private life, habits, acts, and relations of an individual, and have no legitimate connection with his fitness for a public office which he seeks or for which he is suggested, . . . and have no legitimate relation to or bearing upon any act done by him in a public or quasi public capacity.\n\n2. The right to privacy does not prohibit the communication of any matter, though in its nature private, when the publication is made under circumstances which would render it a privileged communication according to the law of slander and libel.\n\n3. The law would probably not grant any redress for the invasion of privacy by oral publication in the absence of special damage.\n\n4. The right to privacy ceases upon the publication of the facts by the individual, or with his consent.\n\n5. The truth of the matter published does not afford a defense.\n\n6. The absence of \"malice\" in the publisher does not afford a defense.\n\nWith regard to remedies, a plaintiff may institute an action for tort damages as compensation for injury or, alternatively, request an injunction.\n\nAs a closing note, Warren and Brandeis suggest that criminal penalties should be imposed for violations of the right to privacy, but the pair decline to further elaborate on the matter, deferring instead to the authority of the legislature.\n\nThe article \"immediately\" received a strong reception and continues to be a touchstone of modern discussions of privacy law.\n\nRoscoe Pound noted in 1916, some 25 years after the essay's publication, that Warren and Brandeis were responsible for \"nothing less than adding a chapter to our law.\" Some decades later, in a highly cited article of his own, Melville B. Nimmer described Warren and Brandeis' essay as \"perhaps the most famous and certainly the most influential law review article ever written\", attributing the recognition of the common law right of privacy by some 15 state courts in the United States directly to \"The Right to Privacy\". In 1960, William L. Prosser's article \"Privacy\" (itself enormously influential in the field), described the circumstances of the article and its importance thusly:\n\nThe matter came to a head when the newspapers had a field day on the occasion of the wedding of a daughter, and Mr. Warren became annoyed. It was an annoyance for which the press, the advertisers and the entertainment industry of America were to pay dearly over the next seventy years. Mr. Warren turned to his recent law partner, Louis D. Brandeis, who was destined not to be unknown to history. The result was a noted article, \"The Right to Privacy\", in the \"Harvard Law Review\", upon which the two men collaborated. It has come to be regarded as the outstanding example of the influence of legal periodicals upon the American law.\n\nContemporary scholar Neil M. Richards notes that this article and Brandeis' dissent in \"Olmstead v. United States\" together \"are the foundation of American privacy law\". Richards and Daniel Solove note that Warren and Brandeis popularized privacy with the article, giving credit to William Prosser for being privacy law's chief architect but calling for privacy law to \"regain some of Warren and Brandeis's dynamism.\" The Olmstead decision was later overruled in the \"Katz v United States (1967)\" court ruling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13833745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13833745", "title": "User charge", "text": "User charge\n\nA user charge is a charge for the use of a product or service. A user charge may apply per use of the good or service or for the use of the good or service. The first is a charge for each time while the second is a charge for bulk or time-limited use.\n\nThe federal government Office of Management and Budget has set forth policies for setting user charges by the United States Government in \"Circular No. A-25 Revised\". Among the policies established, the government may:\n\nThe Environmental Terminology and Discovery Service (ETDS) defines a user charge as a \"Charge paid for a specific environmental service provided to the charge payer. Example: treating wastewater or disposing of waste.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57409122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57409122", "title": "Women human rights defenders", "text": "Women human rights defenders\n\nWomen human rights defenders (WHRDs) are women who defend human rights, and defenders of all genders who defend the rights of women and rights related to gender and sexuality. Their work and the challenges they face have been recognized by a United Nations (UN) resolution in 2013, which calls for specific protection for women human rights defenders. \n\nThe United Nations' resolution deals with human rights and resolutions to issues that are presented at hand. It should be noted that the resolutions developed are intended to be implemented into the communities of the world but not legally enforceable under law.\n\nA woman human rights defender can be an Indigenous woman fighting for the rights of her community, a woman advocating against torture, an LGBTQI rights campaigner, a sex workers’ rights collective, or a man fighting for sexual and reproductive rights.\n\nLike other human rights defenders, women human rights defenders can be the target of attacks as they demand the realization of human rights. They face attacks such as discrimination, assault, threats, and violence within their communities. However, women human rights defenders face additional obstacles based on who they are and the specific rights they defend. This means they are targeted just because they are women, LGBTI people or for identifying with their struggles. They also face additional obstacles connected with systemic discrimination and inequality and because they challenge, or are seen to be challenging, patriarchal power and social norms. They are more at risk of facing gender based violence in the home and the community, and sexist, misogynistic, homophobic, trans-phobic threats, smears and stigmatization, as well as exclusion from resources and power. The women that work to fight for human rights have numerous meetings with the UN Human Rights Council in conjunction with the LGBTQI defenders in Uganda who face prejudice and discrimination as well for The Women Human Rights Defenders understand the struggles being endured.\n\nInternational Women Human Rights Defenders Day has been celebrated each 29 November since 2006.\n\n\nThese are some of the WHRDs killed in recent years, because of their human rights activism\n\n\nSee also List of women killed fighting for human rights.\n\n"}
