{"id": "32156958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32156958", "title": "Afropolitan", "text": "Afropolitan\n\nAfropolitan is a term constructed from the name \"Africa\" and the ancient Greek word \"πολίτης\" ('politis'), meaning 'citizen' (itself from \"polis\", 'city'). It is an attempt at redefining African phenomena by placing emphasis on ordinary citizens' experiences in Africa. \"Afropolitanism\" is similar to the older Panafricanism ideology. However, it defines being an \"African\" in explicitly continent-wide and multiracial terms, and rejects all pretensions to victimhood.\n\nAs Achille Mbembe and Sarah Nuttall write, \"In an attempt to overturn predominant readings of Africa, we need to identify sites within the continent...not usually dwelt upon in research and public discourse, that defamiliarize commonplace readings of Africa.\" These sites include fields like fashion, visual art, music and spiritual concerns.\n\nThe term was popularized in 2005 by a widely disseminated essay, \"Bye-Bye, Babar (Or: What is an Afropolitan?)\" by the author Taiye Selasi. Originally published in March 2005 in the Africa Issue of \"the LIP Magazine\", the essay defines an Afropolitan identity, sensibility and experience. The critiques of the Afropolitan, as portrayed by Selasi in Bye-Bye, Babar, condemn its elitism and class biased approach. Susanne Gehrmann states that Selasi’s Afropolitan “is addicted to urban hip life” and “international careers.” However, the essay is important in discussing where emigrantes of Africa fit into the spectrum of African. Knudsen and Rahbek suggest that Bye-Bye, Babar “is an integral part [in the] ongoing conversation about the relationship between identity and individuality” in the way that it “speaks to the individual” who may feel alone in the sense that they do not have “labels or identities” to understand their positioning in the world. In 2006 the essay was republished by the Michael Stevenson Gallery in Cape Town and in 2007 by \"The Nation\" in Nairobi, whereupon it went viral. Several communities, artists, and publications now use the label, most notably The Afropolitan Network, The Afropolitan Experience, The Afropolitan Legacy Theatre, The Afropolitan Collection, and South Africa's \"The Afropolitan Magazine\". In June 2011 The Victoria and Albert Museum hosted \"Friday Late: Afropolitans\" in London. In September 2011 the Houston Museum of African American Culture convened the symposium \"Africans in America: The New Beat of Afropolitans,” featuring author Teju Cole, musician Derrick Ashong and artist Wangechi Mutu alongside Selasi.\n\nAshong released an online album with the group Soulfège in 2011, titled \"AFropolitan.\" Blitz the Ambassador proposed in 2013 to release the CD \"Afropolitan Dreams\". Ade Bantu is the co-creator of the monthly concert series Afropolitan Vibes which holds at Freedom Park Lagos, Nigeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "25388486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25388486", "title": "Alefba", "text": "Alefba\n\nAlefba () is a Persian-language literary magazine with two periods of publication, one in Iran before the 1979 revolution and another thereafter in France. Gholamhoseyn Sa'edi was the editor of both versions. In Iran the publisher was Amir Kabir Publishers, while in France the publisher was the Association of Iranian Writers in Exile.\n\nSeveral Iranian literary magazines emerged in 1960s and 1970s as a result of new authors and increased literary production in the country. In 1973, Amir Kabir Publishers invested 25,000 toman (about $3,500) in a new quarterly literary magazine, \"Alefba\", and selected Gholamhoseyn Sa'edi to be the editor. Aside from the editorial labor, Sa'edi was responsible for its choosing its title, as well as penning the calligraphy decorating the cover. \"Alefba\" quickly gained status as one of Iran's top literary journals and famous Iranian intellectuals, such as Simin Daneshvar, had their works published in it. Nevertheless Sa'edi frequently selected works of previously unpublished writers or writers he knew personally to be published, and esteemed the political independence of the magazine, which featured writers with different worldviews. In 1974, Sa'edi was arrested by SAVAK, the late shah's secret police. He edited first six issues of the magazine between 1973 and 1976. The last issue of \"Alefba\" (last issue in Tehran) was published in 1977.\n\nAfter the revolution, in 1982, Gholamhoseyn Sa'edi fled to France. Within months of his exile, together with the Association of Iranian Writers in Exile, Sa'edi began to publish a new version of \"Alefba\" in Paris. He continued to edit the magazine until his untimely death in 1985. The final 1986 issue is a collection of Sa'edi's previously unpublished works. Sa'edi wrote that the goal of \"Alefba\" was \"to keep alive the Iranian art and culture which the Islamic Republic oppresses.\" In addition to publishing works of numerous other Iranians in exile, \"Alefba\" was the sole literary venue in which Sa'edi published his own works in exile.\n"}
{"id": "24836703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24836703", "title": "Amoebaean singing", "text": "Amoebaean singing\n\nAmoebaean singing is a type of singing competition originating in Ancient Greece. In it, a first party sings according to a topic and verse structure of their choosing. A second singer then responds with the same verse structure and on a related topic. This repeats until one side concedes or a third party can determine the winner.\n\nThe form is believed to have been used by Greek shepherds to entertain themselves. Later, it would evolve into a judged competition, consisting of multiple rounds of singing between competitors. Competitors would be judged more favorably if they could continue a theme through multiple rounds.\n\nThe poet Theocritus relied heavily on Amoebaean singing, with it becoming his and his successors' \"hallmark\", according to David M. Halperin.\n\nAmoebaean singing can be seen in Theocritus' \"Idyll 5: The Goatherd and the Shepherd\", in an exchange between the goatherd Comatas and the shepherd Lacon.\nComatas\n\"The Muses bear me greater love than Daphnis ere did see;\"\n\"And well they may, fort’other day they had two goats for me.\"\n\nLacon\n\"But Apollo loves me all as well, and an offering too have I,\"\n\"A fine fat ram a-batt’ning; for Apollo’s feast draws nigh.\"\n"}
{"id": "52323022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52323022", "title": "Ascoli Piceno Baptistery", "text": "Ascoli Piceno Baptistery\n\nThe Ascoli Piceno Baptistery (Italian: \"Il battistero di San Giovanni di Ascoli Piceno\"), also known as the baptistery of Saint John, is a religious building found on the eastern end of the piazza Arringo at the center of Ascoli Piceno and sitting next to and just north of the cathedral dedicated to St. Emygdius, the city's patron saint.\n\nThe structure, simple and austere in its architectural form, perfectly represents the Romanesque style in Ascoli, and, being ranked among the best examples of Italian works of art, is included in the list of Italian national monuments .\n\nThe beginning of the baptistery's construction is difficult to date accurately, but archeological finds from 1828 and other excavations between 1870-1880 suggest that the interior of the structure was a pagan temple on Ascoli's forum which may have been dedicated to Hercules.\n\nAccording to Giambattista Carducci, the temple was used as a baptistery already by the 6th century. He also notes that its octagonal form is like the baptistery of Saint John in Florence, of the Arian baptistery of Ravenna, and of the Lateran baptistery in Rome built by Constantine.\n\nThe baptistery's first restoration came prior to the 9th century, with interventions following in the 10th and 11th centuries as shown in the triangular decorations and the framing of the principal entrance. Most recently, the interior of the baptistery was restored in 2006.\n\nThe baptistery is constructed of large, square blocks of travertine, some of which were taken from earlier structures. Visible at the base of the eastern side are the remains of a Roman wall. It is a freestanding structure with a massive, square base containing entrances on two sides. The \"tiburio\" (the upper part of the structure designed to shape and protect the cupola within) is octagonal in shape, decorated with four small windows, and crowned with a square lantern, also containing windows to allow light inside. Each side of the \"tiburio\" is decorated with a blind arcade containing three round arches, with exception of the east facing side which contains a pair of arcades with only two arches each. All of these arcades were added during the 12th century.\nThe original monument had three entrances symbolizing the Holy Trinity as well as the Three Churches: \"the church militant\", composed of all the baptized faithful to Christ and the Pope; \"the church penitent\", which includes all the souls in purgatory that are being prepared for heaven; and \"the church triumphant\", comprising the saints and angels. Today the baptistery has two entrances. The main entrance, found on piazza Arringo, is flanked by two recessed rectangular forms, and the architrave above is decorated with three recessed triangles, one large triangle in the center which is marked by a wide horizontal slit, and two small ones on the sides. The other entrance faces the cathedral door known as the \"La porta della Musa\", and contains stone work from various periods, including Romanesque capitals and an bas-relief architrave that contains a knotted cord (a type of decoration that was very diffuse around the year 1000).\n\nThe interior of the baptistery has an irregular, octagonal shape, typically Roman, with niches that correspond to the angles of the square base. The octagonal walls measure about 5,5 meters each; the dimensions of the interiore are 9,14 x 9 meters. Inside at the center of the floor, directly below the oculus of the cupola, is a slightly raised circular pool, dated to the 5th or 6th century but rediscovered only in 1839, that was used by Christians for baptism by immersion. This unique spot was used for the baptism of both men and women who were assisted, respectively, by deacons and deaconesses. On the right side is a baptismal font from the 14th or 15th century, set on top of a twisted column. On the altar is a painting of the \"Baptism of Christ\", a 16th-century oil on canvas, attributed to Venceslao Corrigioli di Reggio.\n\nThe historian Mario Sabatucci has attributed a symbolic reading to the form of Ascoli's baptistery according to Christian doctrine. According to his interpretation, the square base represents the earth and its four elements (air, earth, fire, and water), the four points of the compass, the four seasons, and the four periods of a human life-span. The octagonal \"tiburio\" calls to mind baptism as described by St. Peter in his first letter: \"« while God patiently waited to receive them, in Noah's time when the ark was being built. In it only a few, that is eight souls, were saved through water. It is the baptism corresponding to this water which saves you now ... »\" The round cupola, like a circle or a sphere, represents eternity and paradise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2106968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2106968", "title": "Augmentative and alternative communication", "text": "Augmentative and alternative communication\n\nAugmentative and alternative communication (AAC) is an umbrella term that encompasses the communication methods used to supplement or replace speech or writing for those with impairments in the production or comprehension of spoken or written language. AAC is used by those with a wide range of speech and language impairments, including congenital impairments such as cerebral palsy, intellectual impairment and autism, and acquired conditions such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Parkinson's disease. AAC can be a permanent addition to a person's communication or a temporary aid.\n\nModern use of AAC began in the 1950s with systems for those who had lost the ability to speak following surgical procedures. During the 1960s and 1970s, spurred by an increasing commitment in the West towards the inclusion of disabled individuals in mainstream society and developing the skills required for independence, the use of manual sign language and then graphic symbol communication grew greatly. It was not until the 1980s that AAC began to emerge as a field in its own right. Rapid progress in technology, including microcomputers and speech synthesis, have paved the way for communication devices with speech output and multiple options for access to communication for those with physical disabilities.\nAAC systems are diverse: unaided communication uses no equipment and includes signing and body language, while aided approaches use external tools. Aided communication methods can range from paper and pencil to communication books or boards to speech generating devices (SGDs) or devices producing written output. The symbols used in AAC include gestures, photographs, pictures, line drawings, letters and words, which can be used alone or in combination. Body parts, pointers, adapted mice, or eye tracking can be used to select target symbols directly, and switch access scanning is often used for indirect selection. Message generation is generally much slower than spoken communication, and as a result rate enhancement techniques may be used to reduce the number of selections required. These techniques include \"prediction\", in which the user is offered guesses of the word/phrase being composed, and \"encoding\", in which longer messages are retrieved using a prestored code.\n\nThe evaluation of a user's abilities and requirements for AAC will include the individual's motor, visual, cognitive, language and communication strengths and weaknesses. The evaluation requires the input of family members, particularly for early intervention. Respecting ethnicity and family beliefs are key to a family-centered and ethnically competent approach. Studies show that AAC use does not impede the development of speech, and may result in a modest increase in speech production. Users who have grown up with AAC report satisfying relationships and life activities; however, they may have poor literacy and are unlikely to be in employment.\n\nThe Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities defines augmentative and alternative communication one of communications as well as display of text, large-print, tactile communication, plain language, accessible multimedia and accessible information and communications technology.\n\nAugmentative and alternative communication is used by individuals to compensate for severe speech-language impairments in the expression or comprehension of spoken or written language. People making use of AAC include individuals with a variety of congenital conditions such as cerebral palsy, autism, intellectual disability, and acquired conditions such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, traumatic brain injury and aphasia. Prevalence data vary depending on the country and age/disabilities surveyed, but typically between 0.1 and 1.5% of the population are considered to have such severe speech-language impairments that they have difficulty making themselves understood, and thus could benefit from AAC. An estimated 0.05% of children and young people require high technology AAC. Well-known AAC users include physicist Stephen Hawking, broadcaster Roger Ebert and poet Christopher Nolan. Award-winning films such as \"My Left Foot\" and \"The Diving Bell and the Butterfly\", based on books by AAC users Christy Brown and Jean-Dominique Bauby respectively, have brought the lives of those who use AAC to a wider audience.\n\nThe field was originally called \"Augmentative Communication\"; the term served to indicate that such communication systems were to supplement natural speech rather than to replace it. The addition of \"alternative\" followed later, when it became clear that for some individuals non-speech systems were their only means of communication. AAC users typically utilize a variety of aided and unaided communication strategies depending on the communication partners and the context.\n\nThere were three, relatively independent, research areas in the 1960s and 1970s that lead to the field of augmentative and alternative communication. First was the work on early electromechanical communication and writing systems. The second was the development of communication and language boards, and lastly there was the research on ordinary (without disability) child language development.\n\nUnaided AAC systems are those that do not require an external tool, and include facial expression, vocalizations, gestures, and sign languages and systems. Informal vocalizations and gestures such as body language and facial expressions are part of natural communication, and such signals may be used by those with profound disabilities. More formalized gestural codes exist that lack a base in a naturally occurring language. For example, the Amer-Ind code is based on Plains Indian Sign Language, and has been used with children with severe-profound disabilities, and adults with a variety of diagnoses including dementia, aphasia and dysarthria. The benefits of gestures and pantomime are that they are always available to the user, usually understood by an educated listener, and are efficient means of communicating.\n\nIn contrast, sign languages have a linguistic base and permit the expression of an unlimited number of messages. Approaches to signing can be divided into two major categories, those that encode an existing language, and those that are languages in their own right. Signing Exact English may be considered the most widely used example of the former and American Sign Language as a common example of the latter. Signing is used alone or in conjunction with speech to support communication with individuals with a variety of disorders. The specific hand shapes and movements of sign and gesture require an individual to have adequate fine motor and motor planning skills. Sign languages require more fine-motor coordination and are less transparent in meaning than gestural codes such as Amer-Ind; the latter limits the number of people able to understand the person's communication without training.\n\nAn AAC aid is any \"device, either electronic or non-electronic, that is used to transmit or receive messages\"; such aids range from communication books to speech generating devices. Since the skills, areas of difficulty and communication needs of AAC users vary greatly, an equally diverse range of communication aids and devices is required.\n\nLow-tech communication aids are defined as those that do not need batteries, electricity or electronics. These are often very simple communication boards or books, from which the user selects letters, words, phrases, pictures, and/or symbols to communicate a message. Depending on physical abilities and limitations, users may indicate the appropriate message with a body part, light pointer, eye-gaze direction, or a head/mouth stick. Alternatively, they may indicate yes or no while a listener scans through possible options.\n\nHigh-tech AAC aids permit the storage and retrieval of electronic messages, with most allowing the user to communicate using speech output. Such devices are known as speech generating devices (SGD) or voice output communication aids (VOCA). A device's speech output may be digitized and/or synthesized: digitized systems play recorded words or phrases and are generally more intelligible while synthesized speech uses text-to-speech software that can be harder to understand but that permits the user to spell words and speak novel messages.\n\nHigh-tech systems may be dedicated devices developed solely for AAC, or non-dedicated devices such as computers that run additional software to allow them to function as AAC devices. They may be static or dynamic in form. Static communication devices have symbols in fixed positions on paper overlays, which are changed manually. To increase the vocabulary available, some static devices have multiple levels, with different words appearing on different levels. On dynamic AAC devices, the user can change the symbols available using page links to navigate to appropriate pages of vocabulary and messages.\n\nHigh-tech devices vary in the amount of information that they can store, as well as their size, weight and thus their portability. Access methods depend on the abilities of the user, and may include the use of direct selection of symbols on the screen or keyboard with a body part, pointer, adapted mice or joysticks, or indirect selection using switches and scanning. Devices with voice output offer its user the advantage of more communicative power, including the ability to initiate conversation with communication partners who are at a distance. However, they typically require programming, and tend to be unreliable.\n\nHigh-tech systems can also include Keyboard based solutions that do not require programming with a mix of flexibility, simplicity, and associated reliability. In this case, a keyboard and audio speaker are configured to be create a \"talking keyboard\" where typed text is spoken directly in an audio speaker. This allows any phrase to be spoken as it is typed using unlimited vocabulary text-to-speech conversion. One simple benefit is that a talking keyboard, when used with a standard telephone or speakerphone can enable a voice impaired individual have 2 way conversation over a telephone.\n\nIn all cases of use, low tech systems often recommended as a backup in case of device failure.\n\nSymbols are visuals used to represent objects, actions, and concepts through the use of items such as the physical object itself, colored or black and white photographs, line drawings, and written words. For users with literacy skills, alphabet-based symbols including individual letters, whole words, or parts thereof may be used in combination with the other types of symbols.Tactile symbols which are textured objects, real objects or parts of real objects that are used as a communication symbols particularly for individuals with visual impairments and/or significant intellectual impairments. Both low- and high-tech devices can incorporate the use of symbols. With low-tech devices, a communication partner is involved and must interpret the symbols chosen. Picture Communication Exchange System (PECS) is a commonly used low-tech communication system that teach individuals how to request, comment, and answer questions through the use of line drawings known as picture communication symbols (PCS). LAMP Words for Life, a high-tech communication system, is an app that incorporates various symbols and motor planning. Symbols are placed in fixed position on the screen which allow users to develop motor patterns associated with certain requests or statements. The choice of symbols and aspects of their presentation, such as size and background, depend on an individual's preferences as well as their linguistic, visual, and cognitive skills. This can be determined using an assessment for symbolic understanding.\n\nTechnological advances have dramatically increased the types of selection methods available for individuals with communication impairments. \nIn \"Direct Selection\", the selection is made by pointing to the desired symbol using a finger or an alternative pointer, such as eye gaze, a head stick, head- or eye-controlled mouse. To accommodate motor control difficulties some users use alternative activation strategies; for example in \"timed activation\", the user maintains selection of the symbol for a predetermined period of time until it is recognized by the system. With the \"release activation\", the selection of the item is only made when the person releases contact from the display.\n\nDirect activation of an AAC system is generally the first choice of access method as it is faster and cognitively easier. Those unable to do so may use indirect selection or \"scanning\". In this method, items displayed for selection are scanned; the scanning may be visual using indicators such as lights, highlighting, and/or contrasting borders, or auditory using spoken prompts from a communication partner or device. When the desired message is reached, the AAC user indicates the choice using an alternative selection technique such as a switch, vocalization or gesture. Several different patterns for switch access scanning are available: in \"circular scanning\", the items are displayed in a circle and then scanned one at a time. It is often introduced first to children or beginning AAC users because it is the easiest to understand. In \"linear scanning\", items are organized in rows and are scanned one at a time until a choice is made. Although more demanding than circular scanning, it is still easy to learn. Finally, in \"group-item scanning\", items are grouped and the groups scanned consecutively. Once a particular group is selected, items within the group are scanned. One of the most common group-item strategies is row-column scanning in which each row forms a group. The rows of items are scanned and when a row is selected, the items in the row are scanned one at a time until a message is selected.\n\nThere are three main selection control techniques in scanning. In \"automatic scanning\", the scan proceeds at a pre-determined speed and pattern until the user selects an item. In \"inverse scanning\", the switch is held down to advance the scan, and released to choose the desired iem. In \"step scanning\", the AAC user activates one switch to move the indicator through the items, and another switch to select the item.\n\nVocabulary organization refers to the way pictures, words, phrases, and sentences are displayed on the communication system. In general, the goal is to facilitate efficient and effective communication, especially when the individual's AAC system contains a large number of symbols.\n\nCommunication books and devices are often presented in a grid format; the vocabulary items displayed within them may be organized by spoken word order, frequency of usage or category. In the Fitzgerald Key organization, symbols from different semantic and syntactic classes are organized grammatically in groups from left to right to facilitate sentence construction. Since research has shown that children and adults use a small number of words frequently, in a core-fringe vocabulary organization, the words and messages that are communicated most frequently appear on a \"main page\". The fringe vocabulary—words and messages used more rarely and that are specific to an individual—appear on other pages. Symbols may also be organized by category, grouping people, places, feelings, foods, drinks, and action words together. Another form of grid organization groups vocabulary according to specific activities. Each display contains symbols for the people, places, objects, feelings, actions, and other relevant vocabulary items for a specific activity or routine.\nVisual scene displays are a different method of organizing and presenting symbols. These are depictions of events, people, objects, and related actions in a picture, photograph, or virtual environment representing a situation, place, or specific experience. They are similar to activity displays in that they contain vocabulary that is associated with specific activities or routines. For example, a photo of a child's room may be included in the child's AAC system. Objects and events within the photograph are then used as symbols for communication. Research suggests that visual scene displays are easier than grid displays for young children or those with cognitive impairments to learn and use.\n\nAugmentative and alternative communication is typically much slower than speech, with users generally producing 8–10 words per minute. Rate enhancement strategies can increase the user's rate of output to around 12–15 words per minute, and as a result enhance the efficiency of communication. There are two main options for increasing the rate of communication: encoding and prediction.\n\nEncoding is a technique permitting an AAC user to produce an entire word, sentence or phrase using only one or two activations of their AAC system. In numeric, alpha-numeric, and letter encoding (also known as abbreviation-expansion), words and sentences are coded as sequences of letters and numbers. For example, typing \"HH\" may retrieve \"Hello, how are you?\". In iconic encoding strategies, such as Semantic compaction, icons (picture symbols) are combined in a sequence to produce words or phrases.\n\nPrediction is a rate enhancement strategy in which the device attempts to predict the letter, word or phrase being written by the user. The user can then select the correct prediction without needing to write the full word. Word prediction software may determine the words predicted based on their frequency in language, association with other words, past choices of the user, or grammatical suitability.\n\nAn evaluation of an individual's abilities, limitations and communication needs is necessary to select appropriate AAC techniques. The purpose of the assessment is to identify potential AAC approaches that can bridge discrepancies between a potential user's current communication and their present and future communication needs. AAC evaluations are often conducted by specialized teams which may include a speech-language pathologist, occupational therapist, rehabilitation engineer, physiotherapist, social worker and a physician. Users, family members and teachers are also key members of the decision making team. Sensitivity to and respect of cultural diversity contributes to ongoing family involvement and to the selection of the most appropriate AAC system. For members of some cultural groups the presence of an AAC device increases the visibility of disability and is thus viewed as stigmatizing.\n\nA user's motor abilities, communication skills and needs, cognition and vision are assessed in order to determine the most appropriate match to a communication system. Depending on the individual's physical status, recommendations of an alternative access method, a change in seating/positioning, a mounting system and/or communication aid adaptations may be needed. For example, someone with spastic arm movements may require a key guard on top of the keyboard or touchscreen to reduce the selection of non-target items. The person's needs and abilities determine the symbols chosen and their organization, with the goal being that the communication system can be used as efficiently as possible in different contexts, with different communication partners, and for different social purposes. Researcher Janice Light identified four social purposes of communicative interaction in AAC: the expression of needs and wants to a listener, the transfer of information as in more general conversation, the development of social closeness through such things as jokes and cheering, and finally social etiquette practices such as \"please\" and \"thank you\". These four purposes vary in terms of the relative importance of the content, rate, duration and the focus of the interaction. It is important that the AAC systems selected also reflect the priorities of the individual and their family. In Western cultures, professionals may see a communication device as helping to promote an individual's self-determination, i.e., the ability to make one's own decisions and choices. However, cultural and religious factors may affect the degree to which individual autonomy is a valued construct, and influence family attitudes towards AAC.\n\nTraining can help the user make use of their AAC system to communicate effectively with others, to control their environment through communication, and to make choices, decisions and mistakes. Skilled users of AAC show communicative competence in four interrelated areas: linguistic, operational, social and strategic. Linguistic competence refers to language skills in the person's native language as well as the linguistic code of the symbol system selected. Operational competence involves the skills in the use and maintenance of the tool of communication, while social competence and strategic competence reflect knowledge and judgment in communicative interactions, including the compensations required for a slow speaking rate, communication breakdowns and those unfamiliar with AAC. An AAC user may require specific device programming and/or training to achieve competency in these areas.\n\nCommunication partners may also require training to notice and consistently interpret the communication signals of a severely disabled individual, particularly because there is a danger that learned helplessness can be the result of repeated failure to communicate successfully. Parties may need assistance to avoid the directive communication style that can lead a child user of AAC not to develop a full range of communication skills such as initiating or taking the lead in conversation, using complex syntax, asking questions, making commands or adding new information.\nYoung AAC users benefit from rich language and literacy experiences to foster vocabulary development, discourse skills, and phonological awareness, all of which supports successful literacy learning. Communication partners are encouraged to provide augmented input with the child, such as signing or pointing to symbols and codes as they communicate, including using the individual's communication system themselves. They also benefit from focussed and explicit reading instruction.\n\nSeveral reviews have found that the use of AAC does not impede the development of speech in individuals with autism or developmental disabilities, and in fact, may result in modest gains being observed. A 2006 research review of 23 AAC intervention studies found gains in speech production in 89% of the cases studied, with the remainder showing no change. A descriptive review looking specifically at Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS) intervention studies found that several studies reported an increase in speech, often during later phases, while one noted little or no effect.\n\nResearchers hypothesize that using an AAC device relieves the pressure of having to speak, allowing the individual to focus on communication, and that the reduction in psychological stress makes speech production easier. Others speculate that in the case of speech generating devices, the model of spoken output leads to an increase in speech production.\n\nLanguage and literacy have far reaching effects as they facilitate self-expression and social interaction in a variety of settings. Furthermore, literacy fosters independence by providing access to educational and vocational opportunities. Children whose disabilities require AAC often experience developmental delays in language skills such as vocabulary knowledge, length of sentences, syntax, and impaired pragmatic skills. These delays may be due in part to the fact that expressive language is limited by more than the children's own language knowledge. Unlike speaking children, children who use AAC do not always have access to their AAC system, and don't select the content available on the device. These external characteristics may impact language learning opportunities. Most children in this category do not achieve literacy skills beyond that of a typically developing 7–8 year old. Cognitive, language and learning delays contribute to difficulty with literacy development, but environmental factors also play a role. The most literate AAC users often report having access to abundant reading and writing material at home as well as in school during childhood. Studies have shown that many children who use AAC have literacy experiences that are reduced quality, quantity, and opportunity at home and at school as compared to children without disabilities. Research suggests that with explicit reading instruction, AAC users can develop good literacy skills.\n\nAccording to a 1997 U.S. Census Bureau report less than 10% of severely disabled individuals were employed. Despite the various barriers to employment, some AAC users achieve success in educational endeavours and employment, though often in lower paying jobs. Factors that have been found to be related to employment are a strong work ethic and access to AAC technology, the support of family and friends, education, and work skills. Individuals with ALS who use AAC may continue working; factors supporting continued employment include access to AAC, support from employers, governmental programs and others. Employers of AAC users report that skills in time management, problem solving, communication, technology and a good education are important to employers.\n\nSeveral studies of young adults who had used AAC since childhood report a generally good quality of life, though few lived independently, or were in paid employment. The young adults used multiple modes of communication including aided and unaided AAC approaches. More positive quality of life outcomes often correlated with better quality of communication and interaction, as well as personal characteristics, family and community support, and excellent AAC services. Poorer outcomes were related to lack of access to appropriate AAC supports and resources, problems with technology and negative attitudes.\n\nCerebral palsy is a term referring to a non-progressive developmental neuromotor disorder with an upper motor neuron lesion origin. Depending on the location of the brain lesion, individuals with cerebral palsy can have a wide variety of gross and fine motor challenges, including different forms and areas of the body affected. Fine motor planning, control and coordination are often affected. Dysarthria, a speech disorder resulting from neurological damage to the motor-speech system, occurs in an estimated 31% to 88% of those with cerebral palsy. Such individuals may require AAC support for communication. Approximately one half to one third have some degree of intellectual impairment, and visual and hearing problems are also common. Gross and fine motor challenges are often of particular concern in accessing an AAC device. Appropriate seating and positioning are important to facilitate optimum stability and movement. Extensive motor training and practice may be required to develop efficient AAC access and use. The trend towards custom-placed sensors and personalized signal processing may assist in facilitating communication for those who are incapable of using other AAC technologies.\n\n Individuals with intellectual impairments face challenges in developing communication skills, including problems with generalization (the transfer of learned skills into daily activities). They may lack communication opportunities in their daily lives, and responsive communicators who understand their communication methods. AAC intervention for this population emphasizes partner training as well as opportunities for integrated, natural communication. Studies have shown that appropriate use of AAC techniques with children and adults with intellectual impairments can enhance communication skills, increase participation in activities, choice-making, and even influence the perceptions and stereotypes of communication partners.\n\nWhile most individuals with intellectual disabilities do not have concomitant behavioural issues, problems in this area are typically more prevalent in this population than others. AAC approaches may be used as part of teaching functional communication skills to non-speaking individuals as an alternative to \"acting out\" for the purpose of exerting independence, taking control, or informing preferences.\n\nAutism is a disorder of neural development characterized by impaired social interaction and communication, and by restricted and repetitive behaviour. Typically there is particular difficulty acquiring expressive communication skills. People with autism have been found to have strong visual processing skills, making them good candidates for an AAC approach.\nAAC intervention in this population is directed towards the linguistic and social abilities of the child, including providing the person with a concrete means of communication, as well as facilitating the development of interactional skills.\n\nAAC systems for this population generally begin with communication boards and/or object or picture exchanges such as the Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS). A 2009 descriptive review provided preliminary evidence that PECS is easily learned by most individuals with autism, provides communication to those with little or no functional speech, and has some limited positive impact on social interaction and challenging behaviours. A study that compared the use of a speech generating device to a picture exchange system found that both were reasonable options for children with autism, as the ease and speed of acquisition of each system was similar.\n\nDevelopmental verbal dyspraxia, also known as Childhood apraxia of speech, is a developmental motor speech disorder involving impairments in the motor control of speech production. The speech of a child with developmental verbal dyspraxia may be unintelligible to the point that daily communication needs cannot be met. A child with developmental verbal dyspraxia often experiences great amounts of frustration, so AAC can be a strategy to support communication alongside more traditional speech therapy to improve speech production.\n\nA wide variety of AAC systems have been used with children with developmental verbal dyspraxia. Manual signs or gestures are frequent introduced to these children, and can include the use of fingerspelling alongside speech. Manual signs have been shown to decrease errors in articulation. Aided AAC systems typically include communication boards and speech generating devices. A multimodal approach is often used, with several AAC approaches introduced so that the child can take advantage of the most effective method for a particular situation.\n\nTraumatic brain injury can result in severe motor speech disorders; dysarthria is the most common such disorder, accounting for roughly a third of all cases. Depending on the stage of recovery, AAC intervention may involve identifying consistent communication signals, the facilitation of reliable yes/no responses to questions, and the ability to express basic needs and answer questions. Individuals who do not recover natural speech to a degree sufficient to meet their communication needs typically suffer from severe impairments related to cognition. Difficulties with memory and learning new skills may influence AAC choices; well-established competencies such as spelling may be more effective than AAC systems that require navigation through multiple pages to access information.\n\nAphasia is the result of damage to the brain's language centres affecting production, comprehension, or both, and can cause severe, chronic language impairment. Individuals with aphasia often communicate using a combination of speech, gestures, and aided communication; the proportion of each may change as the person recovers, and depends on the context and the individual's skills.\n\nDepending on their language and cognitive skills, those with aphasia may use AAC interventions such as communication and memory books, drawing, photography, written words, speech generating devices and keyboards. Visual scene displays have been used on communication devices with adults who have chronic, severe aphasia; these feature photos of people, places or events that are meaningful to the individual and facilitative of communicative interaction. Approaches such as \"Supported Conversation for Adults with Aphasia\" train the communication partners to use resources such as writing key words, providing written choices, drawing, and using items such as photographs and maps to help the individual with aphasia produce and comprehend conversation. Communication boards can be very helpful for patients with aphasia, especially with patients who are very severe. They can be produced at a very low tech level, and can be utilized by patients to point to pictures/words they are trying to say. Communication boards are extremely functional and help patients with aphasia communicate their needs.\n\nStrokes that occur in the brainstem may cause profound deficits, including locked-in syndrome, in which cognitive, emotional and linguistic abilities remain intact but all or almost all voluntary motor abilities are lost. Most people affected by this type of stroke rely on AAC strategies to communicate, since few recover intelligible speech or functional voice. The AAC strategies used vary with the individual's preferences and motor capabilities which may change over time. As eye movements are most likely to be preserved, eye blinks are frequently used for communication. Low-tech alphabet boards are often introduced immediately to provide the individual with basic communication. Partner-assisted scanning may be used, in which the AAC user signals when the desired letter is named by a communication partner. When vertical and horizontal eye movements are functional, a transparent alphabet board may be used in which the AAC user looks at the desired letter and this is acknowledged by the communication partner. Individuals with locked-in syndrome have difficulty using high-tech devices due to issues with motor control, vision, memory, alertness and linguistic ability. In particular, a voluntary, reliable and easily controlled muscle movement is necessary to access such a device, such as head, jaw, hand or finger movements. In some individuals, intensive practice, even long after the initial stroke, has been shown to increase the accuracy and consistency of head movements, which can be used to access a communication device.\n\n Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) or Motor Neurone Disease (MND) is a progressive condition which leads to weakness and eventual paralysis. Approximately 75% of people with ALS are unable to speak by the time of their death. In a procedure known as voice banking, people with ALS may digitally record words and phrases while still able to do so, for later inclusion in a communication device. AAC systems used typically change over time depending on severity of speech impairment, physical status, and the individual's communication needs. Use of augmentative communication strategies generally begins when speaking rate drops to 100 words per minute. In the early stages, AAC may consist of using an alphabet board to cue the listener to the first letter of the word being spoken, and may be used with those less familiar with the individual. In the later stages, AAC often becomes the main communicative method, although familiar conversation partners may still understand some spoken words. Since cognition and vision are typically unaffected in ALS, writing-based systems are preferred to graphic symbols, as they allow the unlimited expression of all words in a language.\n\nThe method of access to a communication device depends on the type and severity of the disease. In the spinal form of ALS, the limbs are affected from the onset of the disease; in these cases a head mouse or eye tracking access may be used initially. In the bulbar form, speech is affected before the limbs; here handwriting and typing on keyboard-style devices are frequently the first forms of AAC. AAC users may change access methods as the disease progresses. Low-tech systems, such as eye gazing or partner assisted scanning, are used in situations when electronic devices are unavailable (for example, during bathing) and in the final stages of the disease.\n\nParkinson's disease is a progressive neurological condition in which dysarthria may develop later in the progression of the disease. Some individuals eventually lose all functional speech. AAC approaches are generally used to supplement and support natural speech. A portable amplifier, for example, may be used to increase the volume of speech and thus its intelligibility. The individual may be taught to point to the first letter of each word they say on an alphabet board, leading to a reduced speech rate and visual cues for the listener to compensate for impaired articulation. Entire words can be spelled out if necessary. In users that have reduced range and speed of movement, a smaller than usual selection display may be preferred. High-tech AAC keyboard speech-generating devices are also used; keyguards may be required to prevent accidental keystrokes caused by the tremor typical of the disease. Factors affecting AAC use in Parkinson's disease include motor deficits and cognitive changes; the latter may result in unawareness of their problems with spoken communication.\n\nDysarthria is the most common communication problem in individuals with multiple sclerosis (MS), however, significant difficulties with speech and intelligibility are uncommon. Individuals with MS vary widely in their motor control capacity and the presence of intention tremor, and methods of access to AAC technology are adapted accordingly. Visual impairments are common in MS and may necessitate approaches using auditory scanning systems, large-print text, or synthetic speech feedback that plays back words and letters as they are typed.\n\nDementia is an acquired, chronic, cognitive impairment\ncharacterized by deficits in memory and other cognitive domains. Communication impairments are partly attributed to memory deficits, and AAC intervention may be used to compensate for deficits and to capitalize on the person's strengths, such as the ability to recognize material they cannot recall. Low-tech devices are generally preferred, such as memory books that include autobiographical information, daily schedules, photographs, and reminders or labels. Several studies have shown positive outcomes in the amount of on-topic conversation and the length of interaction with these approaches. The gains were maintained four months after the training in the use of the memory aids had ceased. High-tech devices with voice output have been found to be less effective; in one study devices resulted in limited topic elaboration/initiation, reduced output and heightened distraction. AAC is also used to enhance the comprehension of those with dementia. The use of augmented listening strategies, such as identifying topics of conversation with pictures, improves the conversational skills of individuals with dementia.\n\nThe history of AAC can be traced to the days of classical Rome and Greece, with the first recorded use of augmentative strategies with the deaf. The use of manual alphabets and signs was recorded in Europe from the 16th century, as was the gestural system of Hand Talk used by Native Americans to facilitate communication between different linguistic groups. The first known widely available communication aid was a letter and word-based communication board developed for, and with, F. Hall Roe, who had cerebral palsy. This communication board was distributed in the 1920s by a men's group in Minneapolis.\n\nThe modern era of AAC began in the 1950s in Europe and North America, spurred by several societal changes; these included an increased awareness of individuals with communication and other disabilities, and a growing commitment, often backed by government legislation and funding, to develop their education, independence and rights. In the early years, AAC was primarily used with laryngectomy and glossectomy cases, and later with individuals with cerebral palsy and aphasia. It was typically only employed after traditional speech therapy had failed, as many felt hesitant to provide non-speech intervention to those who might be able to learn to speak. Individuals with intellectual impairment were not provided with AAC support because it was believed that they did not possess the prerequisite skills for AAC. The main systems used were manual signs, communication boards and Morse code, though in the early 1960s, an electric communication device in the form of a sip-and-puff typewriter controller named the Patient Operated Selector Mechanism (POSM or POSSUM) was developed in the United Kingdom.\n\nFrom the 1960s onward, sign language increased in acceptance and use in the Deaf community, and AAC also came to be viewed as acceptable for those with other diagnoses. Manual sign languages, such as Makaton, were advocated for those with both hearing and cognitive impairments, and later for those with intellectual impairment or autism with normal hearing. Research into whether primates could learn to sign or use graphic symbols spurred further interest the use of AAC with those with cognitive impairments. The use of Amer-Ind hand signals opened the field to AAC techniques specifically for adult users.\n\nBlissymbols were first used in Canada in 1971 to provide communication to those not able to use traditional orthography; their use quickly spread to other countries. With improved technology, keyboard communication devices developed in Denmark, the Netherlands and the US increased in portability; the typed messages were displayed on a screen or strip of paper. By the end of the 1970s, communication devices were being commercially produced, and a few, such as the HandiVoice, had voice output. Countries such as Sweden, Canada and the United Kingdom initiated government-funded services for those with severe communication impairments, including developing centres of clinical and research expertise.\n\nThe late 1970s and 1980s saw a massive increase of AAC-related research, publications, and training as well the first national and international conferences. The International Society for Alternative and Augmentative Communication (ISAAC) was founded in 1983; its members included clinicians, teachers, rehabilitation engineers, researchers, and AAC users themselves. The organization has since played an important role in developing the field through its peer-reviewed journal, conferences, national chapters and its focus on AAC in developing countries. AAC became an area of professional specialization; a 1981 American Speech-Language-Hearing Association position paper, for example, recognized AAC as a field of practice for speech-language pathologists. At the same time, AAC users and family members played an increasing prominent role in the development of knowledge of AAC through their writing and presentations, by serving on committees and founding advocacy organizations.\n\nFrom the 1980s, improvements in technology led to a greatly increased number, variety, and performance of commercially available communication devices, and a reduction in their size and price. Alternative methods of access such eye pointing or scanning became available on communication devices. Speech output possibilities included digitized and synthesized speech, with text-to-speech options available in German, French, Italian, Spanish, Swedish and Ewe. AAC services became more holistic, seeking to develop a balance of aided and unaided strategies with the goal of improving functioning in the person's daily life, and greater involvement of the family. Increasingly, individuals with acquired conditions such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, head injury, and locked-in syndrome, received AAC services. In addition, with the challenge to the notion of AAC prerequisites, those with severe to profound intellectual impairments began to be served. Courses on AAC were developed for professional training programs, and literature such as textbooks and guides were written to support students, clinicians and parents.\n\nThe 1990s brought a focus on greater independence for people with disabilities, and more inclusion in mainstream society . In schools, students with special needs were placed in regular classrooms rather than segregated settings, which led to an increased use of AAC as a means of improving student participation in class. Interventions became more collaborative and naturalistic, taking place in the classroom with the teacher, rather than in a therapy room. Facilitated communication – a method by which a facilitator physically and emotionally supports a person with severe communication needs as they type on a keyboard or letter board – received wide attention in the media and in the field. The question of the authorship made the approach controversial; most of the subsequent research indicated that the facilitators were unknowingly influencing the messages typed. As a result, professional organizations and AAC researchers and clinicians have not typically accepted facilitated communication.\n\nRapid progress in hardware and software development continued, including projects funded by the European Community. The first commercially available dynamic screen speech generating devices were developed in the 1990s. At the same time synthesized speech was becoming available in more languages. Software programs were developed that allowed the computer-based production of communication boards. High-tech devices have continued to reduce in size and weight, while increasing accessibility and capacities. Modern communication devices can also enable users to access the internet and some can be used as environmental control devices for independent access of TV, radio, telephone etc.\nFuture directions for AAC focus on improving device interfaces, reducing the cognitive and linguistic demands of AAC, and the barriers to effective social interaction. AAC researchers have challenged manufacturers to develop communication devices that are more appealing aesthetically, with greater options for leisure and play and that are easier to use. The rapid advances in smartphone and tablet computer technologies has the potential to radically change the availability of economical, accessible, flexible communication devices; however, the user interfaces are needed that meet the various physical and cognitive challenges of AAC users. Android and other open source operating systems, provide opportunities for small communities, such as AAC, to develop the accessibility features and software required. Other promising areas of development include the access of communication devices using signals from movement recognition technologies that interpret body motions, or electrodes measuring brain activity, and the automatic transcription of dysarthric speech using speech recognition systems. Utterance-based systems, in which frequent utterances are organized in sets to improve the speed of communication exchange, are also in development. Similarly, research has focussed on the provision of timely access to vocabulary and conversation appropriate for specific interactions. Natural language generation techniques have been investigated, including the use of logs of past conversations with conversational partners, data from a user's schedule and from real-time Internet vocabulary searches, as well as information about location from global positioning systems and other sensors. However, despite the frequent focus on technological advances in AAC, practitioners are urged to retain the focus on the communication needs of the AAC users: \"The future for AAC will not be driven by advances in technology, but rather by how well we can take advantage of those advancements for the enhancement of communicative opportunities for individuals who have complex communication needs\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5277112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5277112", "title": "Black Angels (Crumb)", "text": "Black Angels (Crumb)\n\nBlack Angels (Edition Peters, New York, no. 66304, copyright 1971), subtitled \"Thirteen Images from the Dark Land\", is a work for \"electric string quartet\" by the American avant-garde composer George Crumb. It was composed over the course of a year and is dated \"Friday the Thirteenth, March 1970 (in tempore belli)\" as written on the score. Crumb is very interested in numerology and numerically structured the piece around 13 and 7. The piece is notable for its unconventional instrumentation, which calls for electric string instruments, crystal glasses, and two suspended tam-tam gongs. The work references the second movement, Andante con moto from Schubert’s ‘Death and the Maiden’ String Quartet.\n\nThe thirteen individual movements of \"Black Angels\" are divided into three large groups.\n\nI. Departure\n\nThrenody I: Night of the Electric Insects (tutti)\n\nSounds of Bones and Flutes (trio)\n\nLost Bells (duo)\n\nDevil-music (solo)\n\nDanse Macabre (duo)\n\nII. Absence\n\nPavana Lachrymae (trio)\n\nThrenody II: Black Angels! (tutti)\n\nSarabanda de la Muerte Oscura (trio)\n\nLost Bells (Echo) (duo)\n\nIII. Return\n\nGod-music (solo)\n\nAncient Voices (duo)\n\nAncient Voices (Echo) (trio)\n\nThrenody III: Night of the Electric Insects (tutti)\n\nThe structure of the work displays the numerological elements important to Crumb, that is, thirteen movements, of which the seventh is the centerpiece. Further, the organization of movements displays symmetry and palindrome: the instrumentation of each movement follows a palindromic structure: 4, 3, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, 3, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4; the first, central and thirteenth movements are titled Threnody; God-music and Devil-music stand symmetrically opposite each other.\n\n\"Black Angels\" is primarily written for (in Crumb's words) \"electric string quartet.\" Though generally played by amplified acoustic instruments, the work is occasionally performed on specially constructed electronic string instruments. The music uses the extremes of the instruments' registers as well as extended techniques such as bowing on the fingerboard above the fingers and tapping the strings with thimbles. At certain points in the music, the players are even required to make sounds with their mouths and to speak.\n\nEach of the string players is also assigned a set of instruments to play throughout the piece. Some of the equipment requires specific preparation, such as the crystal glasses, which are tuned with different amounts of water.\n\nViolin 1\n\nViolin 2\n\nViola\n\nCello\n\nCrumb's score includes a diagram that places the four musicians in a box-like formation. Electric Violin II and Electric Cello are located near upstage right and upstage left, respectively, with their tam-tams between them. Electric Violin I and Electric Viola are near downstage right and downstage left, respectively, but are slightly farther apart than the other two musicians in order to allow full sight of the quartet. Violin I, Violin II and Viola have a set of crystal glasses downstage of them, while Violin I and Cello have maracas upstage of them. Each of the four musicians has a speaker next to him or her.\n\nThe Kronos Quartet, which specializes in new music, was originally formed when violinist David Harrington heard \"Black Angels\" over the radio. He thought Crumb's piece was \"something wild, something scary\" and \"absolutely the right music to play.\"\nIt was the first composition Kronos performed. The Kronos Quartet recorded the work on their album \"Black Angels\".\n\n\"Threnody I: Night of the Electric Insects\" is featured on the soundtrack of \"The Exorcist\".\n\n\"III. Return - God-music\" is heard in the television series on the third episode of the series titled \"The Harmony of the Worlds\".\n\nA recording by the New York String Quartet (CRI) is mentioned by David Bowie among his 25 favorite records\n\nAuthor Elizabeth Hand drew many of the chapter titles for her dark fantasy novel Waking the Moon from the composition, and credits it in the \"Coda\" of the book\n\n"}
{"id": "16907322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16907322", "title": "Black shame", "text": "Black shame\n\nDie schwarze Schande or Die schwarze Schmach (\"the Black Shame\" or \"the Black Disgrace\") were terms used by the German right-wing press to agitate for opposition to the use of African troops in the occupation of the Rhineland following the defeat of the German Empire in the First World War. The campaign reached its peak between 1920 and 1923, but did not stop until 1930.\n\nAlong with phrases like \"the black scourge\" and \"black horror\", these terms were used by campaigners in different countries beyond Germany, such as the United Kingdom, United States and Canada.\n\nE. D. Morel was one of the major promoters of the Black Shame in the United kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "6356549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6356549", "title": "Bugs Bunny in Double Trouble", "text": "Bugs Bunny in Double Trouble\n\nBugs Bunny in Double Trouble is a Looney Tunes video game developed by Atod AB for the Sega Genesis and Game Gear, released in 1996. The game stars Bugs Bunny and features pre-rendered 3D graphics.\n\nOne night, Bugs Bunny is fast asleep in his bed, as he starts to drift off into a dream. In his dream, he sees Yosemite Sam experimenting on a \"giant carrot serum\", but before he could take action, Sam orders Gossamer to fetch the rabbit's brain for his robot, prompting chase. Bugs soon comes across a \"Televisor\" and is transported to many of his times from older cartoons, in which he must complete several objectives in each level.\n\nAfter finishing all 4 levels, Bugs Bunny attempts to escape the haunted castle and defeat both Gossamer and Yosemite Sam in the laboratory. He eventually succeeds and exits the castle to escape inside a rocket ship. Bugs soon found himself stranded in space after the launch, as he spots a nearby space scooter which he uses to travel across the galaxy and face a new threat: Marvin the Martian and his trusty dog sidekick K-9. Upon reaching Marvin's home planet, Mars, Bugs comes across some levers and switches them around, foiling Marvin's plans, and upon leaving back to Earth, he tosses the dynamite stick he previously rescued over to Marvin, resulting in the destruction of Mars itself. Eventually, Bugs wakes up back in his bed, only to find a giant carrot sitting right in front of him, much to his dismay.\n\nSimilarly to 1994's \"\", the levels are mainly based on individual Bugs Bunny cartoons from Warner Bros.' Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies series, stringing them together by having Bugs trapped in a \"Televisor\" created by Yosemite Sam as a mad scientist. Seven of the levels are based on the Bugs Bunny cartoons \"Duck! Rabbit, Duck!\", \"Bully for Bugs\", \"Knighty Knight Bugs\", \"Hare-Abian Nights\", \"Spaced Out Bunny\", \"Mad as a Mars Hare\", and \"Hare-Way to the Stars\", while the other level, entitled \"Haunted Hare\", is based on elements of \"Bewitched Bunny\" and \"Hair-Raising Hare\". On the Game Gear version, the \"Bully for Bugs\" level is altered to instead be named and based on the cartoon \"Roman Legion-Hare\", though similar gameplay is maintained. The \"Spaced Out Bunny\" level is absent in the Game Gear version as well.\n\nEach level features objectives, designs, and opposing characters based on the source cartoon(s), though some levels include plot elements, weapons, and obstacles that weren't present in the original cartoons. For example, the \"Hare-Abian Nights\" level features a duel with Yosemite Sam over a genie's lamp, and \"Spaced Out Bunny\" is essentially a race against Marvin the Martian to Mars. As well, the \"Duck! Rabbit, Duck!\" level does not have the snow present in the original cartoon.\n\nThe Genesis version received mediocre reviews. Critics widely praised the bright, colorful graphics and usage of old Warner Bros. cartoons and characters, though some criticized that the controls make navigating certain areas frustrating. However, reviews generally concluded that while the game is competent in most respects, it lacks any major innovation to draw the interest of anyone but hardcore Warner Bros. fans.\n\n\"GamePro\" gave the Game Gear version a brief negative review, criticizing the gameplay, music, and particularly the difficult-to-see graphics, commenting that \"Signs, enemies, and items are so tiny you'll need a magnifying glass.\"\n"}
{"id": "365989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=365989", "title": "Butoh", "text": "Butoh\n\nButoh first appeared in Japan post-World War II in 1959, under the collaboration of Hijikata Tatsumi and Ohno Kazuo, \"in the protective shadow of the 1950s and 1960s avant-garde\". A key impetus of the art form was a reaction against the Japanese dance scene then, which Hijikata felt was overly based on imitating the West and following traditional styles like Noh. Thus, he sought to \"turn away from the Western styles of dance, ballet and modern\", and to create a new aesthetic that embraced the \"squat, earthbound physique... and the natural movements of the common folk\". This desire found form in the early movement of ankoku butō (暗黒舞踏). The term means \"dance of darkness\", and the form was built on a vocabulary of \"crude physical gestures and uncouth habits... a direct assault on the refinement (\"miyabi\") and understatement (\"shibui\") so valued in Japanese aesthetics.\"\n\nThe first butoh piece, \"Kinjiki\" (\"Forbidden Colours)\" by Tatsumi Hijikata, premiered at a dance festival in 1959. It was based on the novel of the same name by Yukio Mishima. It explored the taboo of homosexuality and ended with a live chicken being held between the legs of Kazuo Ohno's son Yoshito Ohno, after which Hijikata chased Yoshito off the stage in darkness. Mainly as a result of the misconception that the chicken had died due to strangulation, this piece outraged the audience and resulted in the banning of Hijikata from the festival, establishing him as an iconoclast.\n\nThe earliest butoh performances were called (in English) \"Dance Experience.\" In the early 1960s, Hijikata used the term \"Ankoku-Buyou\" (暗黒舞踊 – dance of darkness) to describe his dance. He later changed the word \"buyo,\" filled with associations of Japanese classical dance, to \"butoh,\" a long-discarded word for dance that originally meant European ballroom dancing.\n\nIn later work, Hijikata continued to subvert conventional notions of dance. Inspired by writers such as Yukio Mishima (as noted above), Lautréamont, Artaud, Genet and de Sade, he delved into grotesquerie, darkness, and decay. At the same time, Hijikata explored the transmutation of the human body into other forms, such as those of animals. He also developed a poetic and surreal choreographic language, \"butoh-fu\" （舞踏譜） (\"fu\" means \"notation\" in Japanese), to help the dancer transform into other states of being.\n\nThe work developed beginning in 1960 by Kazuo Ohno with Tatsumi Hijikata was the beginning of what now is regarded as \"butoh.\" In Nourit Masson-Sékiné and Jean Viala's book \"Shades of Darkness\", Ohno is regarded as \"the soul of butoh,\" while Hijikata is seen as \"the architect of butoh.\" Hijikata and Ohno later developed their own styles of teaching. Students of each style went on to create different groups such as Sankai Juku, a Japanese dance troupe well known to fans in North America.\n\nStudents of these two great artists have been known to highlight the differing orientations of their masters. While Hijikata was a fearsome technician of the nervous system influencing input strategies and artists working in groups, Ohno is thought of as a more natural, individual, and nurturing figure who influenced solo artists.\n\nStarting in the early 1980s, butoh experienced a renaissance as butoh groups began performing outside Japan for the first time; at that the style was marked by \"full body paint (white or dark or gold), near or complete nudity, shaved heads, grotesque costumes, clawed hands, rolled-up eyes and mouths opened in silent screams.\" Sankai Juku was a touring butoh group; during one performance by Sankai Juku, in which the performers hung upside down from ropes from a tall building in Seattle, Washington, one of the ropes broke, resulting in the death of a performer. The footage was played on national news, and butoh became more widely known in America through the tragedy. A PBS documentary of a butoh performance in a cave with no audience further broadened knowledge in America.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Koichi Tamano performed atop the giant drum of San Francisco Taiko Dojo inside Grace Cathedral, in an international religious celebration.\n\nThere is a theatre in Kyoto, Japan, called the Kyoto Butoh-kan which attempts to be dedicated to regular professional Butoh performances.\n\nThere is much discussion about who should receive the credit for creating butoh. As artists worked to create new art in all disciplines after World War II, Japanese artists and thinkers emerged from economic and social challenges that produced an energy and renewal of artists, dancers, painters, musicians, writers, and all other artists.\n\nA number of people with few formal connections to Hijikata began to call their own idiosyncratic dance \"butoh.\" Among these are Iwana Masaki (岩名雅紀), Min Tanaka (田中民), and Teru Goi. Although all manner of systematic thinking about butoh dance can be found, perhaps Iwana Masaki most accurately sums up the variety of butoh styles:\nWhile 'Ankoku Butoh' can be said to have possessed a very precise method and philosophy (perhaps it could be called 'inherited butoh'), I regard present day butoh as a 'tendency' that depends not only on Hijikata's philosophical legacy but also on the development of new and diverse modes of expression.\n\nThe 'tendency' that I speak of involved extricating the pure life which is dormant in our bodies.\nHijikata is often quoted saying what opposition he had to a codified dance: \"Since I believe neither in a dance teaching method nor in controlling movement, I do not teach in this manner.\" However, in the pursuit and development of his own work, it is only natural that a \"Hijikata\" style of working and, therefore, a \"method\" emerged. Both Mikami Kayo and Maro Akaji have stated that Hijikata exhorted his disciples to not imitate his own dance when they left to create their own butoh dance groups. If this is the case, then his words make sense: There are as many types of butoh as there are butoh choreographers.\n\nMost butoh exercises use image work to varying degrees: from the razorblades and insects of Ankoku Butoh, to Dairakudakan's threads and water jets, to Seiryukai's rod in the body. There is a general trend toward the body as \"being moved,\" from an internal or external source, rather than consciously moving a body part. A certain element of \"control vs. uncontrol\" is present through many of the exercises.\n\nConventional butoh exercises sometimes cause great duress or pain but, as Kurihara points out, pain, starvation, and sleep deprivation were all part of life under Hijikata's method, which may have helped the dancers access a movement space where the movement cues had terrific power. It is also worth noting that Hijikata's movement cues are, in general, much more visceral and complicated than anything else since.\n\nMost exercises from Japan (with the exception of much of Ohno Kazuo's work) have specific body shapes or general postures assigned to them, while almost none of the exercises from Western butoh dancers have specific shapes. This seems to point to a general trend in the West that butoh is not seen as specific movement cues with shapes assigned to them such as Ankoku Butoh or Dairakudakan's technique work, but rather that butoh is a certain state of mind or feeling that influences the body directly or indirectly.\n\nHijikata did in fact stress feeling through form in his dance, saying, \"Life catches up with form,\" which in no way suggests that his dance was mere form. Ohno, though, comes from the other direction: \"Form comes of itself, only insofar as there is a spiritual content to begin with.\"\n\nThe trend toward form is apparent in several Japanese dance groups, who recycle Hijikata's shapes and present butoh that is only body-shapes and choreography which would lead butoh closer to contemporary dance or performance art than anything else. A good example of this is Torifune Butoh-sha's recent works.\n\nA paragraph from butoh dancer Iwana Masaki, whose work shies away from all elements of choreography.\n\nI have never heard of a butoh dancer entering a competition. Every butoh performance itself is an ultimate expression; there are not and cannot be second or third places. If butoh dancers were content with less than the ultimate, they would not be actually dancing butoh, for real butoh, like real life itself, cannot be given rankings.\nCritic Mark Holborn has written that butoh is defined by its very evasion of definition. The \"Kyoto Journal\" variably categorizes butoh as dance, theater, “kitchen,” or “seditious act.” The \"San Francisco Examiner\" describes butoh as \"unclassifiable\". The \"SF Weekly \"article \"The Bizarre World of Butoh\" was about former sushi restaurant Country Station, in which Koichi Tamano was “chef” and Hiroko Tamano \"manager\". The article begins, “There’s a dirty corner of Mission Street, where a sushi restaurant called Country Station shares space with hoodlums and homeless drunks, a restaurant so camouflaged by dark and filth it easily escapes notice. But when the restaurant is full and bustling, there is a kind of theater that happens inside…” Butoh frequently occurs in areas of extremes of the human condition, such as skid rows, or extreme physical environments, such as a cave with no audience, remote Japanese cemetery, or hanging by ropes from a skyscraper in front of the Washington Monument.\n\nHiroko Tamano considers modeling for artists to be butoh, in which she poses in \"impossible\" positions held for hours, which she calls \"\"really\" slow Butoh\". The Tamano's home seconds as a “dance” studio, with any room or portion of yard potentially used. When a completely new student arrived for a workshop in 1989 and found a chaotic simultaneous photo shoot, dress rehearsal for a performance at Berkeley's Zellerbach Hall, workshop, costume making session, lunch, chat, and newspaper interview, all \"choreographed\" into one event by Tamano, she ordered the student, in broken English, “Do interview.” The new student was interviewed, without informing the reporter that the student had no knowledge what butoh was. The improvised information was published, “defining” butoh for the area public. Tamano then informed the student that the interview itself was butoh, and that was the lesson. Such \"seditious acts,\" or pranks in the context of chaos, are butoh.\n\nWhile many approaches to defining butoh—as with any performative tradition—will focus on formalism or semantic layers, another approach is to focus on physical technique. While butoh does not have a codified classical technique rigidly adhered to within an authoritative controlled lineage, Hijikata Tatsumi did have a substantive methodical body of movement techniques called Butoh Fu. Butoh Fu can be described as a series of cues largely based on incorporating visualizations that directly affect the nervous system, producing qualities of movement that are then used to construct the form and expression of the dance. This mode of engaging the nervous system directly has much in common with other mimetic techniques to be found in the history of dance, such as Lecoq's range of nervous system qualities, Decroux's rhythm and density within movement, and Zeami Motokiyo's qualitative descriptions for character types.\n\nTeachers influenced by more Hijikata style approaches tend to use highly elaborate visualizations that can be highly mimetic, theatrical, and expressive. Teachers of this style include Waguri, Yumiko Yoshioka, Minako Seki and Koichi and Hiroko Tamano, founders of Harupin-Ha Butoh Dance Company.\n\nThere have been many unique groups and performance companies influenced by the movements created by Hijikata and Ohno, ranging from the highly minimalist of Sankai Juku to very theatrically explosive and carnivalesque performance of groups like Dairakudakan.\n\nMany Nikkei (or members of the Japanese diaspora), such as Japanese Canadians Jay Hirabayashi of Kokoro Dance, Denise Fujiwara, incorporate butoh in their dance or have launched butoh dance troupes.\n\nMore notable European practitioners, who have worked with butoh and avoided the stereotyped 'butoh' languages which some European practitioners tend to adopt, take their work out of the sometimes closed world of 'touring butoh' and into the international dance and theatre scenes include SU-EN Butoh Company (Sweden), Marie-Gabrielle Rotie, Kitt Johnson (Denmark), Vangeline (France), and Katharina Vogel (Switzerland). Such practitioners in Europe aim to go back to the original aims of Hijikata and Ohno and go beyond the tendency to imitate a ' master' and instead search within their own bodies and histories for 'the body that has not been robbed' (Hijikata).\n\nLEIMAY (Brooklyn) emerged 1996-2005 from the creative work of Shige Moriya, Ximena Garnica, Juan Merchan, and Zachary Model at the space known as CAVE. LEIMAY has organized and run diverse programs including, the NY Butoh Kan Training Initiative which later became the NY Butoh Festival; Vietnamese Artist in Residency; NY Butoh Kan Training Initiative which turned into the NY Butoh Kan Teaching Residency and now is called LEIMAY Ludus Training). A key element of LEIMAY's work has become transformation of specific spaces. In this way, the space – at times a body, environment or object – and the body – at times dancer, actor, performer or object – are fundamental to LEIMAY's work.\n\nEseohe Arhebamen, a princess of the Kingdom of Ugu and royal descendant of the Benin Empire, is the first indigenous and native-born African butoh performer. She invented a style called \"Butoh-vocal theatre\" which incorporates singing, talking, mudras, sign language, spoken word, and experimental vocalizations with butoh after the traditional dance styles of the Edo people of West Africa. She is also known as Edoheart.\n\nCOLLAPSING\"silence\" Performance Troupe (San Francisco) was established and co-founded by Indra Lowenstein and Terrance Graven in 1992 and was active until 2001. They were a movement-based troupe that incorporated butoh, shibari, ecstatic trance states, and Odissi. They designed all of their costumes, props, puppets, and site-specific installations, while collaborating with live musicians such as Sharkbait, Hollow Earth, Haunted by Waters, and Mandible Chatter. In 1996, they were featured at The International Performance Art Festival and also performed at Asian American Dance Performances, San Francisco Butoh Festival, Theatre of Yugen, The Los Angeles County Exposition (L.A.C.E.), Stanford University, Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, and various other venues creating multi-media dance performances.\n\nIn 1992, Bob DeNatale founded the Flesh & Blood Mystery Theater to spread the art of butoh. Performing throughout the United States, Flesh & Blood Mystery Theater was a regular participant in the San Francisco Butoh Festival of which DeNatale was an Associate Producer. DeNatale's other butoh credits include performing in the film Oakland Underground (2006) and touring Germany and Poland with Ex…it! ’99 International Dance Festival.\n\nA Butoh performance choreographed by Yoshito Ohno appears at the beginning of the Tokyo section of Hal Hartley's 1995 film \"Flirt\".\n\nRon Fricke's experimental documentary film \"Baraka\" (1992) features scenes of butoh performance.\n\nIn the late 1960s, exploitation film director Teruo Ishii hired Hijikata to play the role of a Doctor Moreau-like reclusive mad scientist in his film horror movie \"Horrors of Malformed Men.\" The role was mostly performed as dance. The film has remained largely unseen in Japan for forty years because it was viewed as insensitive to the handicapped.\n\nThe video clip for Madonna's \"Nothing Really Matters\" features butoh-style performance.\n\nThe video clip for Kent's \"Musik non stop\" also features butoh-style performance.\n\nIn Bust A Groove 2, a video game released for the PlayStation in 2000, the dance moves of the hidden boss character Pander are based on Butoh.\n\nThe influence of Butoh has also been felt heavily in the J-Horror movie genre, forming the basis for the appearance of the ghosts in seminal J-Horror .\n\nKiyoshi Kurosawa used butoh movement for actors in his 2001 film \"Kairo\", remade in Hollywood in 2006 as \"Pulse\". The re-make did not feature butoh.\n\nButoh performance features heavily in Doris Dörrie's 2008 film \"Cherry Blossoms\", in which a Bavarian widower embarks on a journey to Japan to grieve for his late wife and develop an understanding of this performance style for which she had held a lifelong fascination.\n\nA portrait of Kazuo Ohno appears on the cover of the 2009 Antony & the Johnsons album \"The Crying Light\".\n\nButoh has greatly influenced the Sopor Aeternus and the Ensemble of Shadows, the musical project of Anna-Varney Cantodea. Its visual motifs are used in for the project's publicity photos and videos.\n\nThe Finnish black metal band Black Crucifixion's 2013 music video \"Millions of Twigs Guide Your Way Through the Forest\" heavily features the Japanese butoh artist Ken Mai.\n\nThe video clip for The Weeknd's \"Belong To The World\" features butoh-style performance.\n\nRichard Armitage cited the dance form as an inspiration for his animalistic portrayal of the villain Francis Dolarhyde (the \"Red Dragon\") in the third season of Hannibal.\n\nButoh dance is featured in the music video for Machine Head's song \"Catharsis.\" \n\n29.Juju Alishina, \"Butoh Dance Training - Secrets of Japanese Dance through the Alishina method\" Jessica Kingsley Publishers, Paperback + Ebook 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1312492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1312492", "title": "Béla H. Bánáthy", "text": "Béla H. Bánáthy\n\nBéla Heinrich Bánáthy (; December 1, 1919 – September 4, 2003) was an Hungarian-American linguist, and Professor at San Jose State University and UC Berkeley. He is known as founder of the White Stag Leadership Development Program, established the International Systems Institute in 1982, and was co-founder of the General Evolutionary Research Group in 1984.\n\nHe grew up in largely rural Hungary and served in the Hungarian military during World War II. When Russia invaded Hungary in April 1945, he and his family fled to Allied-occupied Austria and lived in a displaced persons camp for six years. In 1951, they emigrated to Chicago, sponsored by the Presbyterian church. Within the year his former commanding officer suggested to the U.S. government that they hire Bánáthy as a Hungarian instructor at the Army Language School in Monterey, California. While living in Monterey, he founded the White Stag Leadership Development Program. \n\nHis program gained national attention, and the Boy Scouts of America conducted research into incorporating leadership training into its programs. The Boy Scouts of America's Wood Badge and junior leader training programs had until then focused primarily on Scoutcraft skills, not leadership. William \"Green Bar Bill\" Hillcourt among others resisted the change.\n\nAfter 20 years, Bánáthy left the renamed Defense Language Institute and went to work for the Far West Laboratory for Research and Development in Berkeley and later San Francisco. He retired from Far West in 1989 but maintained an active interest in social systems and science, including attending many conferences and advising students and others in those fields. In 1992, he helped restart the Hungarian Scout Association within his native country. In 2003, Bánáthy and Eva moved to live with their son Tibor in Chico, California. After a brief and unexpected illness, Bánáthy died on September 4, 2003.\n\nBéla Bánáthy was born in 1919 in Gyula, Hungary, as the oldest of four sons. His father Peter was a minister of the Reformed Church in Hungary and his mother Hildegard Pallmann was a teacher. Peter Bánáthy had earned the honorary title Vitéz for his service during World War I, and Béla, as his oldest son, inherited the title.\n\nWhen Bánáthy was about six years old, their family informally adopted Tamas Feri. Tamas was about 13 years old and from a poor gardener's family. Tamas took Bánáthy on his first overnight camp out with his patrol to a small forest near Gyula. Bánáthy's father became the Scoutmaster of the \"small scouts\" troop (similar to American Cub Scouts). When Bánáthy was nine years old, he became the troop leader.\n\nThe family moved about from Bánáthy's birthplace of Gyula, to Makó, Hungary, about southeast of Budapest. He joined the regular scout program of the Hungarian Scout Association and \"Csanad Vezer\" Troop 92. During the 1930s, the troop had more than 50 Scouts and 30 \"small scouts\". They held their monthly troop meetings on Sunday in a large gimnazium and met weekly every Saturday as a patrol. Bánáthy reported: \"Our weekly patrol meetings focused on scoutcraft and Scout spirit and guiding us to move through the various stages of advancement in rank.\"\n\nThe Hungarian Scout program had four stages. During the first three years, Bánáthy advanced three stages. The last stage required Bánáthy to earn 25 merit badges. This last stage was called Turul, after the mythical bird of Hungary. From spring to fall, as weather permitted, the patrol had many outings. Every summer the troop went on a two- to three-week long summer camp. Bánáthy and his troop attended the 4th World Scout Jamboree in 1933. Up until this time, he had intended to follow his father into the ministry, but changed his mind.\n\nBánáthy later wrote,\nWhile at the Jamboree, Bánáthy briefly met Joseph Szentkiralyi, another Scout from Hungary. Hungarian Sea Scout Paul Ferenc Sujan and American Maurice Tripp also attended. More than 20 years later, these three men collaborated in helping Bánáthy build a leadership program for youth in the United States.\n\nAlso in 1933, Bánáthy attended the regional patrol leader training week. Later in 1934, Bánáthy and six other members of his troop traveled to the National Jamboree in Poland. They camped in a large pine forest and visited Kraków and Warsaw. The Polish government hosted a banquet for all of the Scouts in the Presidential Palace. In 1934, he was awarded the best notebook prize of the national spring leadership camp and in 1935, he was invited to serve on the junior staff of the same camp at Hárshegy, Budapest. In 1935, the troop traveled to the Bükk Mountains in northeastern Hungary for their summer camp. As a Senior Patrol leader, Bánáthy and two others took a bicycle tour in advance of the summer camp to preview the camping site.\n\nIn 1937, Bánáthy entered the as was the custom for young men aspiring to military careers. In 1940, at age 21, he was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the armored infantry. Later that year he met his future wife Eva Balazs. The peace-time Hungarian Army received very little training. Bánáthy served two tours on the Russian front in World War II as an armored infantry officer. The Hungarian Army expanded rapidly from an initial force of 80,000, but when fighting started, the rank-and-file of the army had undergone only eight weeks of training.\n\nIn 1941, Bánáthy's unit advanced as part of German Army Group South to within of Moscow, during a severe November ice storm. In 1942, as a soldier in the 109,000 strong Second Hungarian Army (Second Magyar Honved), Bánáthy returned to the Russian front. They fought in the Battle of Voronezh at the Don River bend, supporting the German attack. They were charged with protecting the 8th Italian Army's's northern flank between the Novaya Pokrovka on the Don River to Rossosh, part of the larger force defending the drive by the German 6th Army against Soviet General Vasily Chuikov's 62nd Army, which was defending Stalingrad. Bánáthy was seriously wounded during the action, and he returned from the front to Budapest where he spent seven months recuperating. He married his fiancé, Eva Balazs, with his arm in a sling on December 5, 1942 in Budapest. \n\nBánáthy was promoted as a junior officer of the Royal Hungarian Army and served on the faculty of the Ludovika Akademia under his mentor, Commandant Colonel-General Kisbarnaki General Farkas. Farkas sought a volunteer to teach junior leader training at the academy and Bánáthy volunteered. Farkas also asked Bánáthy to organize a Scout Troop for young men, 19 years and older, which was a common practice within the Hungarian Scout Association at the time. Bánáthy became committed to training the young men in officer's leadership skills; he served as the voluntary national director for youth leadership development and a member of the National Council of the Hungarian Scout Association.\n\nIn July 1944 Farkas was Commander of the Hungarian VI Army Corps, which had been garrisoned at Debrecen. He replaced General Beregfy, who was loyal to the fascist Arrow Cross Party. During that month, Farkas' VI Army Corp was instrumental in repelling a Red Army attack across the Carpathian mountains. On 15 October 1944, Farkas was named commander of the Pest bridgehead and Government Commissioner for Evacuation. In early November 1944, the first Russian units appeared on the southeastern edge of Budapest. As an associate of Farkas, Bánáthy likely had advance notice of the Russian advance. He also knew he would likely be executed if captured. Bánáthy was able to get his wife Eva, one-year-old son Béla and two-week-old son László out of Budapest. Bánáthy's family, along with other officers and their families, found shelter at first in farmhouses, and later in bunkers, caves, and trenches.\n\nWhen the Hungarian Second Army was disbanded on 1 December 1944 due to a lack of equipment and personnel, the remaining units of the Second Army, including Bánáthy's, were transferred to the Third Army. The Siege of Budapest began when the city was encircled on 29 December 1944 by the Red Army. Bánáthy fought with the remainder of his unit against the Russians until after Budapest fell on 13 February 1945. The Axis was striving to protect the last oil fields they controlled in western Hungary around Lake Balaton. By late March 1945, most of what was left of the Hungarian Third Army was surrounded and destroyed about to the west of Budapest in an advance by the Soviet 46th Army towards Vienna. The remaining shattered units fought on as they retreated progressively westward through the Transdanubian Mountains towards Austria.\n\nBánáthy's family and others of the remainder of his and other military units made their way west, along with tens of thousands of other refugees, about into Austria, trying to stay ahead of advancing Russian troops. Temperatures through the time of their flight remained near .\n\nBánáthy reunited with his family in Austria. As the war ended and Austria was occupied in April 1945 by the French, British, Soviet and US military forces, the family was placed in an Allied displaced persons camp. They were housed in a single room in a wooden barrack; it served as their bedroom, kitchen, living room and firewood storage area. Food was extremely scarce and at times they subsisted on around 600 calories per person per day. They were among 1.4 million displaced persons in Austria at the time during a worldwide food shortage as a result of the war. Food was also severely restricted by punitive U.S. policies including directive JCS 1067. In 1947 German citizens were surviving on 1040 calories a day, but the Allies were also suffering from food shortages.\n\nBánáthy later traded for milk to give two-year-old Béla and one-year-old László enough protein. As extremely little food was available in the camps, in early 1947 his wife's twin sister came from Hungary to take their older two sons back to live with the older sister. The Pallendal family, Bánáthy's in-laws, was well-educated and relatively wealthy, so they had access to more food than what was available in the camps. They intended to return the Banathy boys to their parents within a year. Beginning in early 1948, when the Cold War ensued, it became virtually impossible for refugees or displaced persons to cross from the border of one country into another, or even from one Occupation Zone to another. The Pallendal family could not return the two boys from behind the Iron Curtain.\n\nIn 1948, shortly after their third son Tibor was born, the Banathy family was moved to another camp, near a Marshall Plan warehouse. Bánáthy was assigned to unload sacks of wheat from railroad cars. He contacted the World Scouting Movement for assistance and began to organize scouting in the DP camps. During 1947, Bánáthy was named the Hungarian Scout Commissioner for Austria; he led training for Hungarian Scout leaders along with his former commanding officer Farkas. He was ordained by the World Council of Churches and became minister for youth among Hungarian refugees. Banathy served as director of religious education of the Protestant Refugee Service of Austria, was editor of a religious youth service and of a Scout publication.\n\nIn 1948 Bánáthy's fourth son Robert was born. Bánáthy soon found work as a technical draftsman in the statistical office of a U.S. Army warehouse. In 1949, with help from a Swiss foundation, Bánáthy assisted in establishing and was selected as the President of the Collegium Hungaricum, a boarding school for refugees, at Zell am See near Saalfelden, Austria. In the same year, the Communist government in Hungary seized the businesses belonging to the Pallendal family. Because they were members of the social elite, the Communist government considered them to be a political threat.\n\nIn 1951, in what was a common practice during this time, the Hungarian Police arrived at dawn to seize the Pallendal family home and arrest and deport the family from Budapest. Seven-year-old Béla and six-year-old László Banathy, along with their Pallendal grandmother and two aunts, were put aboard a freight train and sent toward Russia. The train stopped occasionally and a few hundred people were forced off at rural towns. The Pallendal family was ejected in eastern Hungary. There an uncle located them and hid them from authorities in a small village.\n\nIn January, 1951, the student body of the Presbyterian McCormick Theological Seminary in Chicago sponsored Béla, Eva, Tibor and Robert Banathy as refugees to the United States. Bánáthy lived with his family at the Seminary, where he worked nights 60 hours a week shoveling coal to fire the Seminary furnace. At the same time, he was studying English from a book. He occasionally preached at nearby Hungarian churches. His wife found work as a machine operator and Tibor, their third son, entered American public school.\n\nWhen World War II ended, General Farkas was designated as the U.S. Army's liaison to former Hungarian prisoners of war. In 1951 he recommended Bánáthy as a Hungarian language instructor, and Bánáthy was invited to teach at the U.S. government's Army Language School in Monterey, California. Bánáthy moved to Monterey in June 1951, a pivotal change in his life. At the Army Language School, he met Joseph Szentkiralyi (Americanized as St. Clair), the founder of the Hungarian Department. They soon figured out they had met at the 4th World Scout Jamboree in 1933. The wives of the two men also realized they had been girlhood friends in grammar school in Budapest. Using her experience managing the Pallendal family restaurant in Budapest before World War II, Eva took work as a waitress in a restaurant on the Monterey Peninsula. Bánáthy served as President of his local Parent-Teacher Association and on the board of the local Red Cross. In the same year, Paul Ferenc Sujan, another former Hungarian scout, joined the language school faculty.\n\nOn February 28, 1956, Bánáthy was naturalized as a United States citizen. After nine years of separation, and repeated failures to get his sons repatriated from behind the Iron Curtain, Bánáthy obtained help from Dr. Eugene Blake, President of the National Council of Churches; Representative Charles M. Teague; Ernest Nagy, Vice Consul in the U.S. Legation in Budapest; Hulda Neiburh of the McCormick Theological Seminary; and Howard Pyle, deputy assistant to President Dwight D. Eisenhower. He was finally able to arrange for 13-year-old Béla and 11-year-old László to emigrate to the United States A photograph of the two boys greeting their mother was featured in \"Life Magazine.\"\n\nBánáthy was an educator, a systems and design scientist, and an author. At the Army Language School, he taught in the Hungarian language department, later becoming its chairman.\n\nIn 1957 Bánáthy began enlarging a concept for a leadership development program. As Council Training Chairman in the Monterey Bay Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America, he received strong support from the Council Executive and Council Executive Board for his proposal to train boys in leadership skills. He was assisted by fellow Hungarians Joe Szentkiralyi (aka St. Clair, Chair of the Hungarian Language Department at the Army Language school) and Paul Sujan (Hungarian Language Instructor at the Army Language school); Fran Peterson (a member of the National Council and a Scoutmaster from Chular, California); and Maury Tripp (a Scouter from Saratoga, California, a member of the National Council, and a research scientist). \"Lord Baden-Powell was my personal idol and I long felt a commitment to give back to Scouting what I had received\", Bánáthy said.\n\nAs part of his master's degree program in counseling psychology at San José State University, he wrote a thesis titled \"A Design for Leadership Development in Scouting\". This book described the founding principles of the White Stag program, which was later adapted by the National Council of the Boy Scouts of America. Prior to Bánáthy's work, the adult Wood Badge and the junior leader training programs had focused on teaching Scoutcraft skills and some aspects of the Patrol Method. His research and findings on teaching principles and competencies of leadership had a huge impact on these two programs, shifting their focus to leadership skills. \n\nSome individuals on the national staff and many volunteers across the nation resisted the idea of changing the focus of Wood Badge from training leaders in Scoutcraft to leadership skills. Among them was William \"Green Bar Bill\" Hillcourt, who had been the first United States Wood Badge Course Director in 1948. Although officially retired, he had many loyal followers. He was adamant that Wood Badge should continue to teach Scoutcraft skills and tried to persuade the national council to stick to that tradition, but his objections were ignored.\n\nThe leadership competencies Banathy articulated became the \"de facto\" method for Scout adult and junior leader training. (In 2008, the White Stag program celebrated its 50th anniversary.) In 1960, the Monterey Bay Area Council recognized Béla for his exceptional service to youth and awarded him the Silver Beaver.\n\nIn the 1970s, due to the success of the White Stag program, Bánáthy was appointed to the Interamerican Scout Committee and participated in three interamerican \"Train the Trainer\" events in Mexico, Costa Rica, and Venezuela. He guided their national training teams in designing leadership development by design programs. Béla also taught in Sunday School and was on the Board of the United Methodist Church of the Wayfarer in Carmel, California.\n\nIn the 1960s Bánáthy began teaching courses in applied linguistics and systems science at San José State University. In 1962 he was named Dean and Chairman of the East Europe and Middle East Division at the Army Language School, overseeing ten language departments. In 1963 he completed his master's degree in psychology at San Jose State University, and in 1966 he received a doctorate in education for a transdisciplinary program in education, systems theory, and linguistics from the University of California in Berkeley. During the mid-1960s Bánáthy was named Chair of Western Division of the Society for General Systems Research. He published his first book, \"Instructional Systems,\" in 1968.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, Bánáthy was a visiting professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and as he continued teaching at San Jose State University. In 1969, he left the renamed Defense Language Institute and became a Program Director, and later Senior Research Director and Associate Laboratory Director, at the Far West Laboratory for Research and Development (now WestEd) in Berkeley (later moved to San Francisco). He \"directed over fifty research and development programs, designed many curriculum projects and several large scale complex systems, including the design and implementation of a Ph.D. program in educational research and development for UC Berkeley\".\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, he focused his research on the application of systems and design theories and methodologies in social, social service, educational, and human development systems. In the 1980s he developed and guided a Ph.D. curriculum in humanistic systems inquiry and social systems design for the Saybrook Graduate School.\n\nIn 1981, he founded the International Systems Institute (ISI), a non-profit, public benefit scientific and educational corporation in Carmel, California, USA. He organized its first meeting at Fuschl am See, Austria in 1982.\n\nBanathy introduced a unique and never-before used approach to organizing the International Systems Institute conferences. Banathy observed that in traditional conferences, a few usually well-respected or prestigious individuals would apply to present \"pre-packaged new ideas\" to others. In typical conferences, presenting almost always carries more prestige than listening; the few presenters share their wisdom with the many. This one-to-many or \"hierarchical knowledge distribution system\" slowed the sharing and spreading of ideas about which many people cared deeply if not passionately, as there was always limited opportunity for interchange among participants. This interaction was usually wedged into the interstices of the formal schedule in the form of informal, spontaneous gatherings for which no record existed.\n\nThe notion that presenting is more important than listening aroused lifelong antipathy in Bánáthy. When he formulated the leadership competencies of the White Stag Leadership Development Program in the 1960s, he described the passing of knowledge from one to another as \"Manager of Learning\". He wrote extensively about how the focus should be on the learner, not the teacher.\n\nBánáthy advanced a different vision for conferences, one that would allow everyone to fully engage. He proposed that everyone be given the opportunity to prepare and distribute papers to all participants in advance of the conference. And instead of listening to speeches, conference attendees took part in extended, non-hierarchical conversations about the conference papers. The conference proceedings were the result of these conversations. Bánáthy felt strongly that systems scholars from all over the world should be given ongoing opportunities to engage in extended conversations so they might put their expertise \"actively into the service of humanity worldwide\".\n\nBánáthy wrote: \"We aspire to reap the 'reflecting and creating power' of groups that emerge in the course of disciplined and focused conversations on issues that are important to us and to our society\". Participants at International Systems Institute gatherings have, since the original meeting organized by Bánáthy in 1982, organized them around this principle and referred to them as \"conversations\".\n\nIn 1984, Bánáthy was co-founder with general evolution theorist Ervin László and others of the initially secret General Evolutionary Research Group, or General Evolutionary Research Group. A member of the Society of General Systems Research since the 1960s, he was Managing Director of the Society in the early 1980s, and in 1985 he became its president. He then served on its Board of Trustees. During the 1980s, he served on the Executive Committee of the International Federation of Systems Research. In 1989, he retired from Far West Labs and returned to live on the Monterey Peninsula. He continued to serve as Professor Emeritus for the Saybrook Graduate School, counseling Ph.D. students. He also continued his work with the annual ISI international systems design conversations, and authored a number of articles and books about systems, design, and evolutionary research. He served two terms as president of the International Federation of Systems Research during 1994-98.\n\nHe coordinated over twenty international systems research conferences held in eight countries, including the 1994 Conversation on Systems Design conversation held at Fuschl Am See, Austria, sponsored by the International Federation of Systems Research. He was also honorary editor of three international systems journals: Systems Research and Behavioral Science, the Journal of Applied Systems Studies, and Systems. He was on the Board of Editors of World Futures, and served as a contributing editor of Educational Technology.\n\nIn 1992, Bánáthy, a long-standing member of the Hungarian Scout Association Abroad (Külföldi Magyar Cserkészszövetség), traveled from his Monterey, California home in the United States to Hungary following its renewed freedom. There, he helped restart the Hungarian Scout Association within his native country.\n\nBánáthy spent considerable time during the last few years of his life caring for his wife Eva in their home in Carmel, California. She had been in poor health for a number of years after a stroke. In the summer of 2003 Bánáthy and his wife moved to live with their son Tibor in Chico, California. After a brief and unexpected illness, Bánáthy died on September 4, 2003. He and Eva had been married 64 years at the time of his death.\n\nBánáthy wrote and published several books and hundreds of articles. A selection:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2491859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2491859", "title": "Canadian Gaelic", "text": "Canadian Gaelic\n\nCanadian Gaelic or Cape Breton Gaelic (), known in English as often simply Gaelic, is the dialects of Scottish Gaelic spoken by people in Atlantic Canada who have their origins in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.\n\nWhile there have been many different regional dialects of Scottish Gaelic that have been spoken in communities across Canada, Atlantic Canada is the only area in North America where Gaelic continues to be spoken as a community language, especially in Cape Breton. All of these dialects had their origins in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, although some have become effectively dormant since the time of emigration. Even in Cape Breton, the situation of the language is precarious.\n\nScottish Gaels settled in Nova Scotia commencing in 1773 with the arrival of the Ship Hector and continuing up until the 1850s. Gaelic has been spoken for 241 years in Nova Scotia: on Cape Breton Island and on the northeastern Nova Scotia mainland. During the early 1900s, the Gaelic language was nearly wiped out in Canadian schools.\n\nThe Gaelic cultural identity community is a vibrant part of Nova Scotia's diverse peoples and communities. Thousands of Nova Scotians attend Gaelic-related activities and events annually including: language workshops and immersions, milling frolics, square dances, fiddle and piping sessions, concerts and festivals. Up until about the turn of the 20th century, Gaelic was widely spoken on eastern Prince Edward Island (PEI). In the 2011 Canadian Census, 10 individuals in PEI cited that their mother tongue was a Gaelic language, with over 90 claiming to speak a Gaelic language.\n\nGaels, their language and culture have influenced the heritage of Glengarry County and other regions in present-day Ontario, where many Highland Scots settled commencing in the 18th century, and to a much lesser extent the provinces of New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador (especially the Codroy Valley), Manitoba and Alberta. Gaelic-speaking poets in communities across Canada have produced a large and significant branch of Gaelic literature comparable to that of Scotland itself.\n\nHaving its origins in Scotland, the Scottish Gaelic language is similar to, but should not be confused with, the Irish language in Newfoundland.\n\nAt its peak in the mid-19th century, Scottish Gaelic, considered together with the closely related Newfoundland Irish, was the third most spoken language in Canada after English and French.\n\nIn Atlantic Canada today, there are currently approximately 2,000 speakers, mainly in Nova Scotia. In terms of the total number of speakers in the 2011 census, there were 7,195 total speakers of \"Gaelic languages\" in Canada, with 1,365 in Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island where the responses mainly refer to Scottish Gaelic. The 2011 census also reported that over 300 residents of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island considered a Gaelic language to be their \"mother tongue\".\n\nIn 1621, King James VI of Scotland allowed privateer William Alexander to establish the first Scottish colony overseas. The group of Highlanders – all of whom were Gaelic-speaking – settled at what is presently known as Port Royal, on the western shore of Nova Scotia.\n\nWithin a year the colony had failed. Subsequent attempts to relaunch it were cancelled when in 1631 the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye returned Nova Scotia to French rule.\n\nAlmost a half-century later, in 1670, the Hudson's Bay Company was given exclusive trading rights to all North American lands draining into Hudson Bay – about 3.9 million km² (1.5 million sq mi – an area larger than India). Many of the traders who came in the later 18th and 19th centuries were Gaelic speakers from the Scottish Highlands who brought their language to the interior.\n\nThose who intermarried with the local First Nations people passed on their language, with the effect that by the mid-18th century there existed a sizeable population of traders with Scottish and aboriginal ancestry, and command of spoken Gaelic.\n\nCape Breton remained the property of France until 1758 (although mainland Nova Scotia had belonged to Britain since 1713) when Fortress Louisbourg fell to the British, followed by the rest of New France in the ensuing Battle at the. As a result of the conflict Highland regiments who fought for the British secured a reputation for tenacity and combat prowess. In turn the countryside itself secured a reputation among the Highlanders for its size, beauty, and wealth of natural resources.\n\nThey would remember Canada when in 1762 the earliest of the (Scottish Highland Clearances) forced many Gaelic families off their ancestral lands. The first ship loaded with Hebridean colonists arrived on \"St.-John's Island\" (Prince Edward Island) in 1770, with later ships following in 1772, and 1774. In September 1773 a ship named \"The Hector\" landed in Pictou, Nova Scotia, with 189 settlers who departed from Loch Broom. In 1784 the last barrier to Scottish settlement – a law restricting land-ownership on Cape Breton Island – was repealed, and soon both PEI and Nova Scotia were predominantly Gaelic-speaking. It is estimated more than 50,000 Gaelic settlers immigrated to Nova Scotia and Cape Breton Island between 1815 and 1870.\n\nWith the end of the American War of Independence, immigrants newly arrived from Scotland would soon be joined by Loyalist emigrants escaping persecution from American Partisans. These settlers arrived on a mass scale at the arable lands of British North America, with large numbers settling in Glengarry County in present-day Ontario, and in the Eastern Townships of Quebec.\n\nIn 1812, Thomas Douglas, 5th Earl of Selkirk obtained to build a colony at the forks of the Red River, in what would become Manitoba. With the help of his employee and friend, Archibald McDonald, Selkirk sent over 70 Scottish settlers, many of whom spoke only Gaelic, and had them establish a small farming colony there. The settlement soon attracted local First Nations groups, resulting in an unprecedented interaction of Scottish (Lowland, Highland, and Orcadian), English, Cree, French, Ojibwe, Saulteaux, and Métis traditions all in close contact.\n\nIn the 1840s, Toronto Anglican priest John Black was sent to preach to the settlement, but \"his lack of the Gaelic was at first a grievous disappointment\" to parishioners. With continuing immigration the population of Scots colonists grew to more than 300, but by the 1860s the French-Métis outnumbered the Scots, and tensions between the two groups would prove a major factor in the ensuing Red River Rebellion.\n\nThe continuing association between the Selkirk colonists and surrounding First Nations groups evolved into a unique contact language. Used primarily by the Anglo- and Scots-Métis traders, the \"Red River Dialect\" or \"Bungee\" was a mixture of Gaelic and English with many terms borrowed from the local native languages. Whether the dialect was a trade pidgin or a fully developed mixed language is unknown. Today the Scots-Métis have largely been absorbed by the more dominant French-Métis culture, and the Bungee dialect is most likely extinct.\n\nBy 1850, Gaelic was the third most-common mother tongue in British North America after English and French (when excluding Indigenous languages), and is believed to have been spoken by more than 200,000 British North Americans at that time. A large population who spoke the related Irish Gaelic immigrated to Scots Gaelic communities and to Irish settlements in Newfoundland.\n\nIn Prince Edward Island, Cape Breton and Glengarry there were large areas of Gaelic monolingualism, and communities of Gaelic-speakers had established themselves in northeastern Nova Scotia (around Pictou and Antigonish); in Glengarry, Stormont, Grey, and Bruce Counties in Ontario; in the Codroy Valley of Newfoundland; in Winnipeg, Manitoba; and Eastern Quebec.\n\nIn 1890, Thomas Robert McInnes, an independent Senator from British Columbia (born Lake Ainslie, Cape Breton Island) tabled a bill entitled \"An Act to Provide for the Use of Gaelic in Official Proceedings.\" He cited the ten Scottish and eight Irish senators who spoke Gaelic, and 32 members of the House of Commons of Canada who spoke either Scottish or Irish Gaelic. The bill was defeated 42–7.\n\nDespite the widespread disregard by government on Gaelic issues, records exist of at least one criminal trial conducted entirely in Gaelic, .\n\nDespite the long history of Gaels and their language and culture in Canada, the Gaelic speech population started to decline after 1850. This drop was a result of prejudice (both from outside, and from within the Gaelic community itself), aggressive dissuasion in school and government, and the perceived prestige of English.\n\nGaelic has faced widespread prejudice in Great Britain for generations, and those feelings were easily transposed to British North America. In 1868, the \"Scottish-American Journal\" mockingly reported that \"the preliminary indispensables for acquiring Gaelic are: swallowing a neat assortment of nutmeal-graters, catching a chronic bronchitis, having one nostril hermetically sealed up, and submitting to a dislocation of the jaw\".\n\nThat Gaelic had not received official status in its homeland made it easier for Canadian legislators to disregard the concerns of domestic speakers. Legislators questioned why \"privileges should be asked for Highland Scotchmen in [the Canadian Parliament] that are not asked for in their own country?\". Politicians who themselves spoke the language held opinions that would today be considered misinformed; Lunenburg Senator Henry A. N. Kaulbach, in response to Thomas Robert McInnes's Gaelic bill, described the language as only \"well suited to poetry and fairy tales\". The belief that certain languages had inherent strengths and weaknesses was typical in the 19th century, but has been rejected by modern linguistics.\n\nAround 1880, from The North Shore, wrote (The Woman who Lost her Gaelic), a humorous song recounting the growing phenomenon of Gaels shunning their mother-tongue.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II the Canadian government attempted to prevent the use of Gaelic on public telecommunications systems. The government believed Gaelic was used by subversives affiliated with Ireland, a neutral country perceived to be tolerant of the Nazis. In Prince Edward Island and Cape Breton where the Gaelic language was strongest, it was actively discouraged in schools with corporal punishment. Children were beaten with the (\"hanging stick\") if caught speaking Gaelic.\n\nJob opportunities for monolingual Gaels were few and restricted to the dwindling Gaelic-communities, compelling most into the mines or the fishery. Many saw English fluency as the key to success, and for the first time in Canadian history Gaelic-speaking parents were teaching their children to speak English en masse. The sudden stop of Gaelic intergenerational transmission, caused by shame and prejudice, was the immediate cause of the drastic decline in Gaelic fluency in the 20th century.\n\nUltimately the population dropped from a peak of 200,000 in 1850, to 80,000 in 1900, to 30,000 in 1930 and 500–1,000 today. There are no longer entire communities of Canadian Gaelic-speakers, although traces of the language and pockets of speakers are relatively commonplace on Cape Breton, and especially in traditional strongholds like Christmas Island, The North Shore, and Baddeck.\n\nA. W. R. MacKenzie founded the Nova Scotia Gaelic College at St Ann's in 1939. St Francis Xavier University in Antigonish has a Celtic Studies department with Gaelic-speaking faculty members, and is the only such university department outside Scotland to offer four full years of Scottish Gaelic instruction.\n\nMany English-speaking artists of Canadian Gaelic heritage have featured Canadian Gaelic in their works, among them Alistair MacLeod (\"No Great Mischief\"), Ann-Marie MacDonald (\"Fall on Your Knees\"), and D.R. MacDonald (\"Cape Breton Road\"). Gaelic singer Mary Jane Lamond has released several albums in the language, including the 1997 hit , (\"Jenny Dang the Weaver\"). Cape Breton fiddling is a unique tradition of Gaelic and Acadian styles, known in fiddling circles worldwide.\n\nSeveral Canadian schools use the \"Gael\" as a mascot, the most prominent being Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario. The school cheer of Queen's University is (\"The College of the Queen forever!\"), and is traditionally sung after scoring a touchdown in football matches. The university's team is nicknamed the Golden Gaels.\n\nThe Gaelic character of Nova Scotia has influenced that province's industry and traditions. Glen Breton Rare, produced in Cape Breton, is one of the very few single malt whiskies to be made outside Scotland. Gaelic settlers in Windsor adapted the popular Gaelic sport shinty (shinny) to be played on ice wearing skates, the precursor to modern ice hockey.\n\nThe first Gaelic language film to be made in North America, (\"The Wake of Calum MacLeod\") is a six-minute short filmed in Cape Breton. The Gaelic scholar Michael Newton made a half-hour documentary, \"Singing Against the Silence\" (2012), about the revival of Nova Scotia Gaelic in that language; he has also published an anthology of Canadian Gaelic literature, (2015).\n\nEfforts to address the decline specifically of Gaelic language in Nova Scotia began in the late 1980s. Two conferences on the status of Gaelic language and culture held on Cape Breton Island set the stage. Starting in the late 1990s, the Nova Scotia government began studying ways it might enhance Gaelic in the province.\nIn December 2006 the Office of Gaelic Affairs was established.\n\nIn Prince Edward Island, the Colonel Gray High School now offers both an introductory and an advanced course in Gaelic; both language and history are taught in these classes. This is the first recorded time that Gaelic has ever been taught as an official course on Prince Edward Island.\n\nMaxville Public School in Maxville, Glengarry, Ontario, Canada offers Scottish Gaelic lessons weekly. The last \"fluent\" Gaelic-speaker in Ontario, descended from the original settlers of Glengarry County, died in 2001.\n\nThe province of British Columbia is host to the (The Gaelic Society of Vancouver), the Vancouver Gaelic Choir, the Victoria Gaelic Choir, as well as the annual Gaelic festival \" Vancouver\". The city of Vancouver's Scottish Cultural Centre also holds seasonal Scottish Gaelic evening classes.\n\nA Gaelic Economic-impact Study completed by the Nova Scotia government in 2002 estimates that Gaelic generates over $23.5 million annually, with nearly 380,000 people attending approximately 2,070 Gaelic events annually. This study inspired a subsequent report, The Gaelic Preservation Strategy, which polled the community's desire to preserve Gaelic while seeking consensus on adequate reparative measures.\n\nThese two documents are watersheds in the timeline of Canadian Gaelic, representing the first concrete steps taken by a provincial government to recognize the language's decline and engage local speakers in reversing this trend. The documents recommend community development, strengthening education, legislating road signs and publications, and building ties between the Gaelic community and other Nova Scotia \"heritage language\" communities Mi'kmaq, Acadian French and African Nova Scotian.\n\nIncreased ties were called for between Nova Scotia and Scotland, and the first such agreement, the \"Memorandum of Understanding\", was signed in 2002.\n\nToday over a dozen public institutions offer Gaelic courses, (such as a Canadian History course in Gaelic at North Nova Education Centre, Nova Scotia) in addition to advanced programmes conducted at Cape Breton, St Francis Xavier, and Saint Mary's Universities.\n\nThe Nova Scotia Highland Village offers a bilingual interpretation site, presenting Gaelic and English interpretation for visitors and offering programmes for the local community members and the general public.\n\nThe Gaelic College in St. Anns offers Gaelic immersion weekends, weeks and summer programs.\n\nSponsored by local Gaelic organizations and societies, ongoing Gaelic language adult immersion classes involving hundreds of individuals are held in over a dozen communities in the province. These immersion programs focus on learning language through activity, props and repetition. Reading, writing and grammar are introduced after the student has had a minimum amount of exposure to hearing and speaking Gaelic through everyday contextualized activities. The grouping of immersion methodologies and exposure to Gaelic cultural expression in immersion settings is referred to in Nova Scotia as .\n\nThe phonology of some Canadian Gaelic dialects have diverged in several ways from the standard Gaelic spoken in Scotland, while others have remained the same. Gaelic terms unique to Canada exist, though research on the exact number is deficient. The language has also had a considerable effect on Cape Breton English.\n\n\n\nNames in Cape Breton Island ()\nNames in mainland Nova Scotia ()\n\nElsewhere in Canada\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2612840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2612840", "title": "Cannon Spike", "text": "Cannon Spike\n\nCannon Spike, originally released in Japan as , is a multi-directional shooter arcade game released in 2000 by Psikyo and later in the same year for the Dreamcast by Capcom. It uses Capcom-designed characters and runs on Sega's Naomi Hardware. \"Cannon Spike\" is similar to games like \"Smash TV\" and Capcom's \"Commando\", although with primary focus on boss fighting. \"Cannon Spike\" is noted as one of the last games released for Dreamcast in Europe, published by Bigben Interactive and exclusively sold at retail in Game outlets.\n\nThe international name of \"Cannon Spike\" is the name of a trademark attack performed by Cammy, a character from the \"Street Fighter\" series of video games and one of the protagonists of this title.\n\nThe game's playable characters, which come from a range of Capcom games, include:\n\nOne other character, Simone, was made specifically for the game and has not been featured in any game since. Simone shares a few similarities with another Capcom character, Linn Kurosawa, from \"Alien vs. Predator\". Vega appears as an enemy character, named \"Fallen Balrog\" or \"Revenger Balrog\" in all regions.\n\nIn its arcade incarnation, the game is played using a joystick and three buttons; Mark (used to lock onto a targeted enemy), Shoot, and Attack (a close-range strike, usually more powerful or with greater knock-back compared to ordinary shooting.) In addition to these basic commands, each character also has a ranged special attack (unleashed by pressing Shoot and Attack simultaneously), a close-range special (Mark and Attack simultaneously), and a super special (all three buttons simultaneously). The use of the super special requires a Special Token, occasionally dropped by a defeated enemy and always dropped by a defeated ally in 2-player mode.\n\nOn release, \"Famitsu\" magazine scored the Dreamcast version of the game a 30 out of 40. The game holds a 69.69% score at GameRankings.\n\n"}
{"id": "13346849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13346849", "title": "Concert aria", "text": "Concert aria\n\nA concert aria is normally a free-standing aria or opera-like scene (\"scena\") composed for singer and orchestra, written specifically for performance in concert rather than as part of an opera. Concert arias have usually been composed for particular singers, the composer always bearing that singer's voice and skill in mind when composing the work.\n\nApart from only denoting loose arias for singer and orchestra, the term is also used to indicate arias which were specifically composed for insertion into already-existing operas, either as additions to the score or as substitutions for other arias. These are sometimes performed in concerts because they are no longer required for their original purpose, though they were not, strictly speaking, composed for performance in concert.\n\nThe concert arias which are most commonly performed today were written by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, but there are many examples by other composers, such as:\n\nAmong the more well-known of Mozart's concert arias are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "204333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204333", "title": "Cultural literacy", "text": "Cultural literacy\n\nCultural literacy is a term coined by E. D. Hirsch, referring to the ability to understand and participate fluently in a given culture. Cultural literacy is an analogy to literacy proper (the ability to read and write letters). A literate reader knows the object-language's alphabet, grammar, and a sufficient set of vocabulary; a culturally literate person knows a given culture's signs and symbols, including its language, particular dialectic, stories, entertainment, idioms, idiosyncrasies, and so on. The culturally literate person is able to talk to and understand others of that culture with fluency, while the culturally illiterate person fails to understand culturally-conditioned allusions, references to past events, idiomatic expressions, jokes, names, places, etc.\n\nFor example, in 1908 British author G. K. Chesterton wrote, \"Complete self-confidence is a weakness... the man who has [self-confidence] has 'Hanwell' written on his face as plain as it is written on that omnibus\". This statement, especially the latter half, might be opaque to an American who does not know that \"omnibus\" is a less common, British word for \"bus\" and opaque to present-day Britons as \"Hanwell\" was the name of a (now defunct) insane asylum.\n\nChildren of a given culture typically become culturally literate there via the process of enculturation. Enculturation seems to occur naturally, being intertwined with education, play, family relationships, friendships, etc. The cause of cultural literacy is a more difficult question when considering acculturation of immigrants, outsiders, cultural minorities, strangers, guests, etc.\n\nLiteracy of a given culture seems to arise over time with consistent exposure to and participation in that culture, especially certain key cultural strongholds, like business, story, arts, education, history, religion, and family. One could become literate for an oral culture (with no written language or recorded media) only by extended conversation. Alternatively, one could become literate for a written culture through conversation as well as reading culturally relevant books or exposure to culturally relevant films, plays, monuments, television shows, etc.\n\nWestern culture in general and Anglo-American culture in particular is a bibliocentric culture. It often trades in allusions to the Christian Bible, the influential works of Early Modern English such as works of William Shakespeare, the Thomas Cranmer \"Book of Common Prayer\", Geoffrey Chaucer's poetry, and many others. Knowledge of these books (among others) contributes largely to cultural literacy in the west. However, also essential are exposure to the art, history, and the lived experience of members of that culture.\n\nThe benefits and detriments of cultural literacy are debated. For example, social mobility increases when one is able to comfortably participate in conversation with gatekeepers like employers and teachers.\nNon-native members of a culture, such as missionaries to a foreign land or refugees from a native land, may experience negative consequences due to cultural illiteracy. However, the achievement of cultural literacy may seem to come at a cost to one's own native culture.\n\nDiscussions of cultural literacy have given rise to several controversial questions:\n\nThe varying (and often competing) answers to these questions are being studied by sociologists, educators, philosophers, and professors of literature\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28805894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28805894", "title": "Disability in the arts", "text": "Disability in the arts\n\nDisability in the arts is an aspect within various arts disciplines of inclusive practices involving disability. It manifests itself in the output and mission of some stage and modern dance performing-arts companies, and as the subject matter of individual works of art, such as the work of specific painters and those who draw.\n\nDisability in the arts is distinguished from disability art in that it refers to art that includes people with disabilities, whether in themes, performance, or the creation of the artwork, rather than works focusing on disability as the central theme. It can also refer to work that is made as a political act toward shaping a new community, fostering disability culture:\nPeople with disabilities sometimes participate in artistic activities as part of expressive therapy (also known as \"expressive arts therapy\" or \"creative arts therapy\"). Expressive therapy may take the form of writing therapy, music therapy, drama therapy, or another artistic method. While creativity and artistic expression are parts of expressive therapy, they are secondary to the goal of achieving a therapeutic benefit. This article describes disability in the arts where artistic achievement is the primary goal.\n\nThe physically integrated dance movement is part of the disability culture movement, which recognizes the first-person experience of disability. This means disability is integrated not as a medical model construct but as a social phenomenon, through artistic, literary, and other creative means.\n\nBeethoven is remembered for his ability to compose classic music after completely losing his hearing. He tried several ways of using his deteriorating hearing before it completely disappeared. He had the legs of his pianoforte cut off, so that it was sitting directly on the floor. By lying on the floor in front of the keyboard, he could feel vibrations while he played, helping him to compose. Different attempts were made to help Beethoven with adaptive or assistive technology. Thomas Broadwood, the Streichers, and Conrad Graf were all piano manufacturers who tried different methods of adapting the instrument to make it louder for Beethoven: ear trumpets were attached to the soundboard, resonance plates were added to the underside of a piano, and using four strings for every key were all tried. Beethoven ultimately lost all hearing, and could no longer rely on an instrument to help him compose. Beethoven composed his Ninth Symphony at this time in his life.\n\nBelgian jazz guitarist Django Reinhardt was a 20-year-old, accomplished guitarist when his left hand was severely burned in a house fire, leaving him with only the use of two fingers for playing the fretboard on the neck of the guitar. While he recovered from his burns, his brother gave him a new guitar. Reinhardt devised his own physical therapy, practising daily to stretch his fingers. He also invented new techniques to compensate for the lost fingers: Reinhardt continued to work as a guitarist, and became world-famous as a recording artist. Reinhardt's creative techniques became part of the jazz guitar repertoire.\n\nMelody Gardot, a jazz vocalist, suffered a traumatic brain injury after she was hit by a car while riding a bicycle. Gardot's injury impaired her memory, including her ability to speak. She spent a year recovering in hospital. While in hospital, her therapy required her to relearn the process of completing simple tasks, such as remembering to shut off a water tap after brushing her teeth. Remembering words to complete sentences was a challenge for Gardot. A doctor suggested that Gardot try singing sentences as an alternative to speaking them, as a way of improving her ability to remember longer sentences. Gardot discovered that this method improved her memory. Gardot gained a music following by adding recordings of her music to Myspace in 2006. Gardot is now a world-famous recording artist, in both French and English, and gives concerts around the globe. She sometimes still has memory lapses while performing, and Gardot needs to wear sunglasses to protect her light-sensitive eyes. She carries a cane as she occasionally experiences vertigo.\n\nIn 2011, British composer Charles Hazlewood formed the British Paraorchestra, an orchestra that aims to consist entirely of skilled disabled musicians to counter his belief that orchestras do not contain enough disabled musicians. The formation of the orchestra was the subject of a Channel 4 documentary, and it also performed during the closing ceremony of the 2012 Summer Paralympics in London.\n\nIn the UK the One Handed Musical Instrument Trust has the objective of removing the barriers to music-making faced by the physically disabled. It comments: \"There is currently no orchestral instrument that can be played without two fully functioning hands and arms, denying unlimited participation in musical life to those with congenital disabilities and amputees, as well as the millions who may have been injured, suffered a stroke or developed arthritis. The primary obstacle is the absence of suitable instruments.\"\n\nIn modern times, the treatment of disability in theatre works has reflected an evolution in mainstream social attitudes towards disability. In Western culture, disability was once rarely mentioned in plays. Notable exceptions include Shakespeare's \"Richard III\". The character of Richard III was depicted as \"deformed, unfinish'd\" has served as an example of an \"anti-hero\" and illustrated the depiction of people with disabilities in the arts as villains. Richard's physical disabilities are used to symbolize the fundamental weakness in his character. Yet Shakespeare was conscious of the common mistake of equating physical beauty with personal or moral qualities, or the reverse perception, that physical unattractiveness represents personal flaws (he satirizes such attitudes in his Sonnet 130). Richard III is portrayed as a complex character, one whose tragedy is in surrendering to his moral weaknesses rather than overcoming them.\n\nThe inclusion of performers with disabilities in theatre has developed in tandem with wider public acceptance of integrating people with disabilities in mainstream society. French theatre actress Sarah Bernhardt was already famous when she had a leg amputation at age 71. She continued her acting career. Bernhardt disliked her prosthetic limbs and chose to use a sedan chair.\n\nThe National Theatre Workshop of the Handicapped (NTWH) was a repertory theatre company based in New York City that worked in advocacy, training, and production in theatre for performers with disabilities. It was primarily inclusive of performers and playwrights with physical disabilities when it was founded in 1977. NTWH oversaw projects such as the Writers’ Program for Wounded Warriors, which served as both a therapeutic and artistic program for war veterans to explore the psychological, emotional and spiritual experiences of war. Famous People Players, founded in 1974, is a touring black light theatre company based in Toronto, Canada, that employs people with disabilities as performers and staff.\n\nSome notable 20th-century plays have dealt directly with disability. American playwright Tennessee Williams wrote many plays with female leads who were at least in part inspired by his sister Rose, who was diagnosed with schizophrenia, and then left severely disabled by a lobotomy as a young woman. Characters who reflect Rose's struggle with mental illness include Laura in \"The Glass Menagerie\", Blanche DuBois in \"A Streetcar Named Desire\", and Catherine in the screenplay Williams wrote for the 1959 film \"Suddenly, Last Summer\". In Williams' plays, such women are seen as suffering tragedy as a result of their illness.\n\nLeonard Gershe's \"Butterflies Are Free\", about a young blind man who wins his independence from an overprotective mother, debuted on Broadway in 1969, was made into a film in 1972. The main character was played by non-blind actors in both the original run of the play and the film version. In contrast, the play \"Children of a Lesser God\", written by Mark Medoff and debuting in 1980, included a deaf actress playing the female lead role of a character who is deaf. This continued in the 1986 film version; Marlee Matlin, who is deaf, won an Academy Award for Best Actress. In addition, the play \"Spring Awakening\", a production by Deaf West and which debuted in 2015 on Broadway, featured a large cast of Deaf actors. The play featured both hearing and Deaf actors that performed using American Sign Language.\n\nA new small theater in NYC created by Gregg Mozgala, a professional actor with spastic diplegia Cerebral Palsy, that focuses on \"The Disabled Experience\" and integrates able bodied actors with actors who have mental and physical disabilities. Their first larger production was \"The Penalty\" which was based on a film from the 1920s.\n\nBlue Apple Theatre is an award-winning inclusive theatre company based in Winchester, England. It was founded in 2005 by Jane Jessop to pioneer the inclusion of actors with intellectual disabilities on mainstream stages. In May 2012, six Blue Apple actors made history by touring a ground-breaking re-imagining of William Shakespeare's Hamlet around the South of England. They were the first actors with Down Syndrome to perform the play professionally. The title role was played by Tommy Jessop.\n\nGraeae Theatre Company is a British organisation composed of artists and managers with physical and sensory impairments. It was founded in 1980 by Nabil Shaban and Richard Tomlinson and named for the Graeae of Greek mythology. In 1981 the Company was offered the use of an office, rehearsal space and facilities for 18 months by the West End Centre, an Arts Centre in Aldershot in Hampshire.\n\nNicu's Spoon is an inclusion-oriented Off-Off-Broadway theater company in New York City.\n\nPhamaly Theatre Company, (formerly the Physically Handicapped Actors & Musical Artists League), is a theater group and touring company formed in 1989 when a group of former students of the Boettcher School in Denver, Colorado, frustrated with the lack of theatrical opportunities for people with disabilities, decided to found a company of their own. Phamaly performs at the Denver Performing Arts Complex and the Aurora Fox Theatre. The company's season also includes various touring and educational shows.\n\nTheater Breaking Through Barriers (TBTB - formerly Theater By The Blind) is an Off-Broadway, all-inclusive theater company in New York City dedicated to advancing the work of professional actors, writers and directors with disabilities. Founded by Ike Schambelan in 1979, TBTB began as a company of sighted actors hired to record plays for the blind. In 1982, the theater incorporated and began creating showcases, which mixed blind, low-vision and sighted performers. By 1985 the troupe began producing full stage productions featuring integrated casts of blind/low vision and sighted actors for blind and sighted audiences. In 2008, TBTB expanded their mission to include all performers with disabilities and officially changed their name from TBTB - Theater By The Blind to TBTB - Theater Breaking Through Barriers to reflect the expansion.\n\nFor filmmakers and audiences alike, there is an unspoken appeal for disabled people on screen. Films have an impact in shaping society's views of specific groups. For films with disability, these views and stereotypes are drawn from social institutions and norms in Western culture. Several influential pieces of writing that predate film which include disability:\nThese examples point to a reoccurring theme of disability in mainstream culture and in film, it is pervasive and often overlooked. One theory movie goers continue to watch films with disability is explained psychologically. In Sigmund Fraud's 1919 essay Uncanny, he attributes the fear of disability as a substitute for castration anxiety and veering from the norm \nFilm in disability typically involves the portrayal of one disability or another in a way that is meant to communicate a specific message or perspective. Many films strive to create a sense of inclusiveness and awareness, thereby eliminating the apparent social stigma associated with disability. Many films aim to trigger discussion and other forms of engagement revolving around disability.\n\nIndependent disability film is often screened on a larger scale during disability film festivals. ReelAbilities, for example, acts to “[promote] appreciation and awareness of the lives, stories and artistic expressions of people with various disabilities.” They additionally aim to “bring together our community to explore, discuss, embrace, and celebrate the diversity of our shared human experience.”\n\nDisability in film has been a relatively recent phenomenon; as Hollywood has “kept its distance, favouring conditions such as blindness, deafness and discreet mental illnesses which exhibit no outward sign of deformity, though good-looking wheelchair users have proved acceptable.” According to scholar David T. Mitchell, it was nearly thirty years ago that “a resurgence of concern over the consequences of dehumanizing representations (monster, freak, madman, suffering innocent, hysteric, beggar) resulted in suspicion over the ultimate utility of representational studies about disability.” Mitchell further discusses the shift to altering the social perception of various disabilities in the public sphere.\n\nDisability has been portrayed in film since the era of silent cinema. Disability may be an essential plot element or make a significant contribution in another way as part of the screenplay. The experiences of disabled war veterans were often the basis of early films that dealt with disability. \"The Light That Failed\", a popular short story by British author Rudyard Kipling, was filmed in 1916, 1923 and 1939. The protagonist, a veteran gradually losing his eyesight, became in many ways a template for many films that would portray disabled veterans as tragic victims. Films in this pattern include \"The Men\" (1950), starring Marlon Brando, and \"Johnny Got His Gun (film)\" (1971), an anti-war film directed by Dalton Trumbo. Other early films established the pattern of portraying disabled soldiers as \"noble warriors\", confronting and overcoming both physical disability and society's lack of understanding upon their return home. Some examples include \"Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo\" (1944), \"Since You Went Away\" (1944), and the groundbreaking \"The Best Years of Our Lives\" (1945). \"The Best Years of Our Lives\" tells the story of several veterans who are disabled in battle, then return home to face their own bitterness and the challenge of reintegrating into society as men with a disability. Some members of the film industry opposed the decision to cast Harold Russell, a real-life veteran who lost both hands in a training accident, stating that it was in \"poor taste\". However, the film was popular with audiences, and Russell was awarded the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, as well as \"a special Oscar for 'Bringing hope and courage to his fellow veterans'\".\n\nEarly portrayals of women with disabilities rarely strayed from an image of an innocent, sheltered young woman. Even a nuanced film like Charlie Chaplin's \"City Lights\" (1931) follows this pattern. This film tells the story of the Little Tramp's efforts to help a blind flower girl with whom he falls in love. The film was radical in challenging the audience at the end of the film to take the point of view of someone blind, to metaphorically \"see\" beyond their prejudices towards others. The melodrama \"Johnny Belinda\" (1948), which depicts an innocent young deaf woman raped and then defending herself from an attempted murder, does little to give the lead character any depth beyond being a typical \"plucky\" and brave hero. Yet, the film was notable for bringing sign language to mainstream film audiences for the first time, and for making a woman with a disability the main character and allowing her to triumph over adversity. \"Children of a Lesser God\" (1986) shattered the stereotype of the innocent young woman with a disability. The character Sarah is independent, strong-willed, and often fails to recognize what is in her own best interests. Marlee Matlin won the Academy Award for Best Actress, and was an exception to the general rule that only non-disabled actors would appear in high-profile film roles depicting someone with a disability.\n\nDisabled actors that are older, over 40 more specifically, are more likely to be chosen for roles in films, compared to their younger counterparts. This suggests that the perception of the disability in film becomes more acceptable as one gets older. \n\nReelAbilities, is an annual film festival in the United States screening films about disability issues.\n\n\nIn the 2009 science fiction film \"Avatar\", the paraplegic protagonist (Sam Worthington) experiences a new freedom as a fully mobile human-alien hybrid (avatar).\n\nSpencer Tracy plays a handicapped war veteran in \"Bad Day at Black Rock\". He steps off the train at the almost-deserted desert hamlet of Black Rock. It is the first time the train has stopped there in four years. The remaining inhabitants are unaccountably hostile, but Tracy proves that one good arm is all you need to win a fight.\n\nDisability in film can be categorized into three eras: silent film to the 1930s, 1940s to the 1970s, and post 1970s.\nOne of the first disability films is Thomas Edison's \"Fake Beggar\" in 1898. This short film of fifty seconds, is about a fake beggar who poses as blind, but is eventually caught by the police.\nEarly depictions of the disabled involved criminality and freak shows. In this era, scientist tried to rationalize and catalog people’s abnormalities,for example Francis Bacon attempt in 1620 to Isidore Geoffroy Saint-Hillaire actualized catalog in the 1830s. In addition, Cesare Lombroso, a criminal anthropologist, drew a direct correlation between body and mind as a sign of degeneracy. This idea points to a common trope, one of the disabled criminal. Furthermore, these early films coincided with the accepted idea of eugenics at the time, leaning heavily towards the medical model of disability.\n\nThis era of disability films can be described as post-war films. The trope of the disabled alcoholic veteran in a wheelchair became passe. The WWII and the Vietnam War were publicly perceived and reacted to differently, therefore representations of disabled veterans from these respective wars were also different. Post-traumatic stress is a reoccurring theme in the 1970s, as action films that previously upheld American culture and values, no longer did as a result of the Vietnam War. \n\nContemporary films have attempted more nuanced and humanistic portrayals of the disabled. One particular movement, Dogme 95, attempted to change the standard narratives, aesthetics and productions of studio film..\n\nNotable Examples:\n\nSome visual media companies have a particular focus on issues involving disability. Some examples follow.\n\nAdaptive technology is helping an increasing number of artists overcome challenges that would otherwise prevent them from fully exercising their creativity. Mobility impairments can be overcome with tools such as Wii Remote, which allows users to create digital graphics and digital paintings. Computer technology can also help artists with restricted vision.\n\nThe creative use of adaptive or assistive technology in media can also provide ways for the visually impaired to enjoy visual arts. Audio devices are made available to visitors at some museums, galleries, and other cultural institutions, to provide an informative narration for visitors, whether or not they have a visual impairment. Audio narration for theatre, film or television provides necessary description, added between dialogue, for visually impaired audience members.\n\nConceptual art is also a way for disabled artists to engage in the arts, by using studio assistants to carry out the artist's creative vision. This is prevalent in current art practice, where several disabled artists have found success in this field.\n\nA number of well-known visual artists have worked professionally despite the challenges of disability. Some include:\n\nOral literature, the oldest form of literature, can be enjoyed by anyone, including the deaf or hearing-impaired (depending upon their ability to lip-read), and impaired verbal ability is the only impediment to storytelling. Homer, the ancient Greek author of the verse epics the \"Odyssey\" and the \"Iliad\", is believed to have been blind. This disability was no barrier to the challenge of composing, and reciting for others, his classic creations, which contain over 15,000 lines (\"Iliad\") and 12,000 lines (\"Odyssey\"). The \"Iliad\" itself is divided into 24 \"books\" that each take around one hour to recite. The tradition of oral storytelling, and the greater ease with which verse stories are memorized and retold, helped John Milton compose the 17th-century epic English poem \"Paradise Lost\". Milton gradually lost most of his eyesight and dictated \"Paradise Lost\" to willing assistants who wrote it down for publication (a process called Amanuensis).\n\nThe shift in modern Western culture away from oral storytelling to the written and printed word has created a barrier for the visually impaired. Writing and self-editing prose writing is often impossible without the use of assistive technology. Software developed for the visually impaired, called screen readers, enable users to hear a voice reading the user's choice of digital printed material, such as e-books or Websites. Braille keyboards enable users to type and edit using a computer. Assistive technology is also available to help users with a learning disability, such as dyslexia, that impairs literacy, to read and write more easily using computers.\n\nLiterature that includes disability as a theme has become more common in recent decades. In non-fiction, memoirs have raised mainstream awareness of the experiences of people with disabilities. Notable recent first-person accounts include \"My Left Foot\", written by painter and writer Christy Brown. First published in 1954, it describes his upbringing in Ireland, his challenges brought on by severe cerebral palsy, and his early career. It was made into a popular film in 1989, for which Daniel Day-Lewis won an Academy Award for Best Actor. American writer Jim Knipfel took a humorous, irreverent approach with \"Slackjaw\" (1999), a memoir in which he details his struggles in accepting the loss of his eyesight to retinitis pigmentosa.\n\n\"The Ship Who Sang\" is a collection of stories by science fiction author Anne McCaffrey about the brainship Helva. In a far future, young children with severe physical handicaps can be placed in a life-support shell and specially trained for tasks that a \"normal\" human would be unable to undertake. McCaffrey, who has described \"The Ship Who Sang\", an early work, as the best story she ever wrote, asked herself one day: \"what if severely disabled people were given a chance to become starships?\"\n\nThe historical novel \"Four Freedoms\" deals with the often overlooked contributions made by disabled persons to the war industry during World War II.\n\nAccessibility is one component of serving the public that arts organizations may overlook. Universal design provides a means of including audience members, or participants, with disabilities. Some of the accessibility factors that cultural facilities and arts organizations can take into account include:\n\nAdaptive or accessible technology is an innovative way of making traditional arts and cultural programs available to a larger audience that includes people with disabilities. For example, audio can be added to programs through live or pre-recorded captioning. Subtitling, audio description for broadcast programs, DVD and other home entertainment, and Internet projects, are some of the ways arts venues and groups can remove barriers faced by people with disabilities.\n\n\nThere are many government initiatives that support the participation of people with disabilities in arts and cultural programs. Most U.S. state governments include an accessibility coordinator with their state arts agency or regional arts organization. There are a variety of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and non-profit groups that support initiatives for inclusive arts and culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "30165969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30165969", "title": "Evertune", "text": "Evertune\n\nEverTune is an American company that produces the EverTune bridge, designed to keep guitar strings in tune.\n\nStringed instruments, particularly guitars, have a tendency to get out of tune during playing, especially if strings are bent. In the late 1980s, Gibson developed a system called the Gibson Robot Guitar which used an onboard computer, motors, and a battery to keep the instrument in tune, but the system was complex and did not gain much marketplace acceptance, according to one report.\n\nGuitarist and engineering student Cosmos Lyles came up with a device to keep his guitar in tune, and with the help of engineer Paul Dowd produced a prototype of the EverTune bridge, which uses a spring and lever system that maintains string tension.\n\nThe EverTune bridge keeps a guitar in tune despite changes in tension. The mechanical device maintains a constant state of tension despite changes in temperature or humidity or the exertion of pressure on the string.\n\nOn a guitar, the bridge has six springs and levers, one for each of a guitar's six strings, such that \"when a string stretches or slips, the springs apply the opposing force necessary to compensate for the shift, thus maintaining the correct tension and tuning.\" In theory, the device can work with any stringed instrument, according to the inventors. The mechanism has been patented. A guitar with one installed is no longer tuned by turning the pegs at the end of the guitar's neck but rather with a screw on the bridge.\n\nThe chief executive officer is Mark Chayet who had previously founded a manufacturing firm named \"Evermark\" which made CDs and DVDs. Chayet provided some of the initial financing for the firm, and other executives and entrepreneurs include David Weiderman, William Quigley, and Brock Pierce. The firm raised $800,000 in cash in May 2010, according to one report. One of the first guitars to have an EverTune bridge fitted in the factory is the VGS Radioactive TD-Special. A Tommy Denander signature guitar was created by the German luthiers of VGS. The EverTune bridge has hit the market in North America in October 2010 but the first series is by installation only. The unit was displayed at the \"Consumer Electronics Show\" in 2010. The product was highlighted in a feature in \"The New York Times\" entitled \"The Year in Ideas\". In August 2011, the product was not yet ready for sale. One report suggested that EverTune will be available on a \"wide range of electric guitars\" in the near future and will be available as an installation kit. One report suggested there were 35 guitars with Evertune installed or about to be retrofitted with them. There are talks with guitar makers of electric guitars and basses to have the device embedded into new models and it is featured on the Ola Englund signature series of Washburn Guitars.\n\n"}
{"id": "31024729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31024729", "title": "Friede sei mit Dir", "text": "Friede sei mit Dir\n\nThe relief sculpture Friede sei mit Dir (), also known as the cock of Berlin is an artwork by sculptor Peter Lenk. It is located in Berlin at the building of the editorial staff of German newspaper taz.\n\nThe sculpture displays living persons who were involuntarily used in controversial headlines by newspaper \"Bild\". The main part is a caricature of former \"Bild\" editor-in-chief Kai Diekmann, stretched over five floors. The title on the top floor, \"Friede sei mit Dir\", is a double entendre: either \"Peace be with you\" or \"Friede be with you\", the latter referring to \"Bild\"'s publisher who is depicted on the left-hand side of the fourth-floor façade snake-charming.\n\nThe sculpture's background is a satirical article and the ensuing lawsuit. In 2002, journalist Gerhard Henschel claimed that Kai Diekmann had undergone a failed medical enhancement operation. Dieckmann sued, unsuccessfully, for damages to his personality rights . The court held that the claimant, in his function as chief editor of \"Bild\", had willingly decided to become an actor in a personality-rights-infringing business from which he was profiting economically, and therefore was not entitled to maximum protection against infringement of his own rights.\n\nThe sculpture itself was installed in 2009 and remains legally unchallenged.\n"}
{"id": "3325318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3325318", "title": "Geomythology", "text": "Geomythology\n\nGeomythology is the study of alleged references to geological events in mythology. Dorothy Vitaliano, a geologist at Indiana University, coined the term in 1968.\n\nThe claim is that oral traditions about nature are often expressed in mythological language and may contain genuine and perceptive natural knowledge based on careful observation of physical evidence. Geomythology alleges to provide valuable information about past earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, impact events, fossil discoveries, and other events, which are otherwise scientifically unknown or difficult to trace.\n\nTo be distinguished from this are plainly aitiological tales that account for geological features without any connection to their formation; for example: the Native American legend of a giant bear chasing a couple who were saved when the land rose beneath their feet; the bear's claws left gouge marks on the sides of the uplift known today as Devils Tower, Wyoming.\n\nIn August 2004 the 32nd International Geological Congress held a session on \"Myth and Geology\", which resulted in the first peer-reviewed collection of papers on the subject (2007).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4726468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4726468", "title": "Godzilla (franchise)", "text": "Godzilla (franchise)\n\nThe first film, \"Godzilla\", was directed by Ishirō Honda and released by Toho in 1954 and became an influential classic of the genre. It featured political and social undertones relevant to Japan at the time. The original introduced an acclaimed music score by Akira Ifukube, which was reused in many of the later films. The original also introduced the work of special effects master Eiji Tsuburaya, who used miniatures and \"suitmation\" to convey the large scale of the monster and its destruction. For its North American release, the film was reworked as an adaptation and released in 1956 as \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\". The adaptation featured new footage with Raymond Burr edited together with the original Japanese footage.\n\nToho was inspired to make the original \"Godzilla\" after the commercial success of the 1952 re-release of \"King Kong\" and success of \"The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms\" (1953). The success of the \"Godzilla\" series itself would go on to inspire other monster films worldwide. The popularity of the films has led to Godzilla being featured in other media, such as television, music, literature, and video games. Godzilla has been one of the most recognizable symbols in Japanese pop culture worldwide, remains a well-known facet of Japanese films and was one of the first examples of the popular \"kaiju\" and \"tokusatsu\" subgenres in Japanese entertainment.\n\nThe tone and themes vary per film. Several of the films have political themes, others have dark tones, complex internal mythology, or are simple action movies featuring aliens or other monsters, while others have simpler themes accessible to children. Godzilla's role varies from purely a destructive force to an ally of humans, or a protector of Japanese values, or a hero to children. The name Godzilla is a romanization of the original Japanese name Gojira—which is a combination of two Japanese words: \"gorira\" (ゴリラ), \"gorilla\", and \"kujira\" (クジラ), \"whale\". The word alludes to the size, power and aquatic origin of Godzilla. As developed by Toho, the monster is an offshoot of the combination of radioactivity and ancient dinosaur-like creatures, indestructible and possessing special powers (see Godzilla characteristics).\n\nThe \"Godzilla\" film series is broken into several (different) eras reflecting a characteristic style and corresponding to the same eras used to classify all kaiju eiga (monster movies) in Japan. The first two eras refer to the Japanese emperor during production: the Shōwa era and the Heisei era. The third is called the Millennium era as the emperor (Heisei) is the same but these films are considered to have a different style and storyline than the Heisei era.\n\nOver the series history, the films have reflected the social and political climate in Japan. In the original film, Godzilla was an allegory for the effects of the hydrogen bomb, and the consequences that such weapons might have on earth. The radioactive contamination of the Japanese fishing boat \"Daigo Fukuryū Maru\" through the United States' Castle Bravo thermonuclear device test on Bikini Atoll on March 1, 1954, led to much press coverage in Japan preceding the release of the first movie in 1954. The Heisei and Millennium series have largely continued this concept.\n\nThe initial series of movies is named for the Shōwa period in Japan (as all of these films were produced before the \"Shōwa Emperor\" Hirohito's death in 1989). This Shōwa timeline spanned from 1954, with \"Godzilla\", to 1975, with \"Terror of Mechagodzilla\". With the exceptions of \"Godzilla\", \"Godzilla Raids Again\", \"Mothra vs. Godzilla\" and \"Terror of Mechagodzilla\", much of the Shōwa series monster-action was intentionally made comical and laughable for children, with Godzilla frequently engaged in clownish slapstick wrestling with other monsters. Starting with \"Ghidorah the Three-Headed Monster\", Godzilla began evolving into a friendlier, more playful antihero (this transition was complete by \"Son of Godzilla\", where it is shown as a good character), and as years went by, it evolved into an anthropomorphic superhero. \"Ghidorah the Three-Headed Monster\" was also significant for introducing Godzilla's arch-enemy and the main antagonist of the movie series, King Ghidorah. The films \"Son of Godzilla\" and \"All Monsters Attack\" were aimed at youthful audiences, featuring the appearance of Godzilla's son, Minilla. \"Godzilla vs. Mechagodzilla\" was notable for introducing Godzilla's robotic arch-enemy and secondary villain of the movie series Mechagodzilla. The Shōwa period tied loosely in to a number of Toho-produced films in which Godzilla himself did not appear and consequently saw the addition of many monsters into the \"Godzilla\" continuity, three of which (Mothra, Rodan and Varan) originated in their own solo movies and another five (Anguirus, Kumonga, Baragon, Manda and Gorosaurus) appeared in their first films as either antagonistic or secondary characters.\n\nHaruo Nakajima mainly portrayed Godzilla since 1954 until his retirement in 1972. However, other stunt actors portrayed the character in his absence, such as Katsumi Tezuka, Yū Sekida, Ryosaku Takasugi, Seiji Onaka, Shinji Takagi, Isao Zushi, and Toru Kawai. Eiji Tsuburaya directed the special effects for the first six films of the series. His protege Sadamasa Arikawa took over the effects work for the next three films (with Tsuburaya supervising), while Teruyoshi Nakano directed the special effects for the last six films of the series.\n\nToho rebooted the series in 1984 with \"The Return of Godzilla\", starting the second era of \"Godzilla\" films, known as the \"Heisei\" series. \"The Return of Godzilla\" serves as a direct sequel to the original 1954 film and ignores the subsequent events of the Showa era. \"The Return of Godzilla\" was released in 1984, five years before the new Emperor, but is considered part of this era, as it is a direct predecessor to \"Godzilla vs. Biollante\" (1989), which came out in the first year of the new Emperor's reign.\n\nThe Heisei films are set in a single timeline, with each film providing continuity to the other films, and brings Godzilla back as a destructive force of nature that is feared by humans. The biological nature and science behind Godzilla became a much more discussed issue in the films, showing the increased focus on the moral aspects of genetics. \"Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah\" gave the first concrete birth story for Godzilla, featuring a \"Godzillasaurus\" dinosaur-like creature that was mutated by nuclear radiation into Godzilla. Godzilla was portrayed by Kenpachiro Satsuma for the Heisei films while the special effects were directed by Koichi Kawakita, with the exception of \"The Return of Godzilla\", for which the effects were directed by Teruyoshi Nakano.\n\nToho rebooted the franchise for a second time, with the 1999 film \"\", starting the third era of \"Godzilla\" films, known as the Millennium series. The Millennium series is treated similarly to an anthology series where each film, with the exception of \"Godzilla Against Mechagodzilla\" and \"\" (which are a series all their own), is set in its own timeline and follows-up on the events of the original 1954 film, but ignores the events of the Shōwa and Heisei eras.\n\nAfter the release of 2004's \"\", marking the 50th anniversary of the \"Godzilla\" film franchise, Toho decided to put the series on hiatus for another 10 years. Toho also demolished the water stage on its lot used in numerous \"Godzilla\", kaiju and tokusatsu films. Yoshimitsu Banno, who had directed 1971's \"Godzilla vs. Hedorah\", secured the rights from Toho to make an IMAX 3D short film production, based on a story similar to his \"Hedorah\" film. This project eventually led to the development of Legendary's \"Godzilla\".\n\nTsutomu Kitagawa portrayed Godzilla for the majority of the Millennium films, with the exception of \"\", in which Godzilla was portrayed by Mizuho Yoshida. Unlike the Showa and later Heisei films, the special effects for the Millennium films were directed by multiple effects directors such as Kenji Suzuki (\"Godzilla 2000\", \"Godzilla vs. Megaguirus\"), Makoto Kamiya (\"Godzilla, Mothra and King Ghidorah: Giant Monsters All-Out Attack\"), Yuichi Kikuchi (\"Godzilla Against Mechagodzilla\"), and Eiichi Asada (\"Godzilla: Tokyo S.O.S.\", \"Godzilla: Final Wars\").\n\nIn December 2014, Toho announced plans for a new \"Godzilla\" film of their own for a 2016 release. The film is intended to be Toho's own reboot of the \"Godzilla\" franchise and is co-directed by Hideaki Anno and Shinji Higuchi (both who collaborated on the anime \"Neon Genesis Evangelion\"), with the screenplay written by Anno and the special effects directed by Higuchi. Principal photography began on September and ended in October with the special effects work following in November that year. \"Shin Godzilla\" was released in Japan on July 29, 2016 in IMAX, 4DX, and MX4D to positive reviews and was a box office success.\n\nIn August 2016, Toho announced plans for a trilogy of anime \"Godzilla\" films with Polygon Pictures animating the films and Netflix distributing the trilogy worldwide, except in Japan where each film will be given a theatrical release by Toho. The first film, titled \"\", was released on November 17, 2017. The second film, titled \"\", was released on May 18, 2018. The third and final film in the trilogy, titled \"\", was released on November 9, 2018.\n\nIn January 2018, Toho announced its plans to invest 15 billion yen ($135 million) for the next three years beginning in 2019 to co-produce content with Hollywood and Chinese studios who have licensed Toho's properties, such as \"Godzilla\", \"Your Name\", and \"Pokémon\". Toho will invest 25% in production costs and will earn a higher share in revenue and manage creators rights so their creative input will be shown in each work.\n\nIn May 2018, Toho’s Chief Godzilla Officer Keiji Ota revealed that a sequel to \"Shin Godzilla\" will not happen but revealed plans for a \"World of Godzilla\", a shared cinematic universe between Godzilla and other Toho monsters after 2021. Ota cited the Marvel Cinematic Universe as an influence, with plans to release a new film every one to two years. Ota stated: \n\nIn 1956, Jewell Enterprises Inc., licensed \"Godzilla\" and produced an \"Americanized\" version of the film \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\". The film utilized a majority of the footage from the Japanese original but a majority of the political themes and social commentaries were removed, resulting in 30 minutes of footage from the Japanese original replaced with new scenes shot exclusively for the film featuring Raymond Burr interacting with Japanese actors and look-alikes to make it seem like Burr was a part of the original Japanese production. In addition, sound-effects and soundtracks were tweaked and some dialogue was dubbed into English. Similar \"Americanizations\" occurred for the North American releases of \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\" and \"Godzilla 1985,\" the latter which included Burr reprising the role of American journalist Steve Martin.\n\nIn 1957, producer Harry Rybnick attempted to produce a Hollywood remake of \"Godzilla Raids Again\" titled \"The Volcano Monsters\", however, funding from AB-PT Pictures collapsed after the company closed down and \"Godzilla Raids Again\" was instead dubbed in English and released in 1959 by Warner Bros. as \"Gigantis the Fire Monster\".\n\nIn 1965, Toho co-produced \"Invasion of Astro-Monster\" with American studio UPA, marking the first time a \"Godzilla\" film was co-produced with an American studio.\n\nIn the 1980s, filmmaker Steve Miner pitched his idea for an American 3D production of \"Godzilla\" to Toho, with story boards by William Stout and a script written by Fred Dekker, titled \"\" which featured Godzilla destroying San Francisco in an attempt to find its only offspring. Various studios and producers showed interest in the project but passed it over due to high budget concerns. The film would have featured a full scale animatronic Godzilla head built by Rick Baker, stop motion animation executed by David W. Allen, additional storyboards by Doug Wildey, an articulated stop motion Godzilla figure created by Stephen Czerkas, and the production design overseen by William Stout.\n\nIn October 1992, TriStar Pictures acquired the rights from Toho with plans to produce a trilogy. Director Jan de Bont and writers Terry Rossio and Ted Eliott developed a script that had Godzilla battling a shape-shifting alien called \"the Gryphon\". De Bont later left the project after budget disagreements with the studio. Roland Emmerich was hired to direct and co-write a new script with producer Dean Devlin.\n\n\"Godzilla\" was released on May 20, 1998 to negative reviews from critics and fans and was a box office success, grossing $136 million domestically and $379 million worldwide, however, it was considered a box office disappointment. Two planned sequels were cancelled and an was produced instead. TriStar let the license expire in 2003. In 2004, Toho began trademarking new iterations of TriStar's Godzilla as \"Zilla\", with only the incarnations from the 1998 film and animated show retaining the Godzilla copyright/trademark.\n\nIn 2004, director Yoshimitsu Banno acquired permission from Toho to produce a short IMAX \"Godzilla\" film. In 2009, the project was turned over to Legendary Pictures to be redeveloped as a feature film reboot. Announced in March 2010, the film was co-produced with Warner Bros. Pictures and was directed by Gareth Edwards.\n\n\"Godzilla\" was released on May 16, 2014 to positive reviews from critics and fans and was a box office success, grossing $200 million domestically and $529 million worldwide. The film's success prompted Toho to produce a reboot of their own and Legendary to proceed with sequels and a shared cinematic franchise, with \"\" set to be released on May 31, 2019, and \"Godzilla vs. Kong\" set to be released on May 22, 2020.\n\nFrom 1954 through 2017, there have been 32 \"Godzilla\" films produced by Toho in Japan. There have been several American productions: adaptations including \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters!\", \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\" and \"Godzilla 1985\", and three Hollywood productions: \"Godzilla\" (1998) produced by TriStar Pictures, and \"Godzilla\" (2014) and \"Godzilla: King of the Monsters\" (2019) produced by Legendary Entertainment in partnership with Warner Bros. Pictures. \n\n\nIn 1976, Italian director Luigi Cozzi intended to re-release \"Godzilla\" in Italy. Facing resistance from exhibitors to showing a black and white film, Cozzi instead licensed a negative of \"Godzilla, King of the Monsters\" from Toho and created a new movie in color, adding lots of stock footage of graphic death and destruction and short scenes from newsreel footage from World War II, which he released as \"Godzilla\" in 1977. The film was colorized using a process called Spectrorama 70, where color gels are put on the original black and white film, becoming one of the first black and white movies to be colorized. Dialogue was dubbed into Italian and new music was added. After the initial Italian run, the negative became Toho's property and prints have only been exhibited in Italy. Italian firm Yamato Video at one time intended to release the colorized version on a double DVD along with the original \"Godzilla\".\n\nIn 2007, a CGI Godzilla appeared in the Toho slice of life movie \"Always Zoku Sanchōme no Yūhi\" (\"Always: Sunset on Third Street 2\"). In an imaginary sequence, Godzilla destroys part of 1959 Tokyo, with one of the main protagonists getting angry that Godzilla damaged his car showroom. The making of the sequence was kept a secret. Godzilla has been referenced and has briefly appeared in several other films. Godzilla guest starred in the show \"Crayon Shin-chan\" as an antagonist. Godzilla also appears in cave paintings (alongside Rodan, Mothra and King Ghidorah) in a post-credits scene in \"\".\n\nBelow is a chart listing the number of tickets sold for each \"Godzilla\" film in Japan including the imported Hollywood films. The films are listed from the most attended to the least attended. Almost all of the 1960s films were reissued, so the lifetime number of tickets sold is listed with the initial release ticket numbers mentioned in notes.\n\nBy 2016, the series had sold more than 100million tickets at the Japanese box office. It was the highest-grossing film franchise in Japan, up until it was surpassed by the anime film series \"Doraemon\" in 2013.\n\n\"Note: Multiple films do not have a score on Rotten Tomatoes, but do have reviews, which have been converted to a score, the same way that Rotten Tomatoes calculates scores.\"\nIn Japan, Godzilla appeared in five out of 26 episodes of Toho's live-action \"Zone Fighter\" television program in 1973. Also in Japan, Godzilla (along with a plethora of other kaiju) appeared in an animated toy show called \"Godzilla Island\" that ran in 1997–1998.\n\nBetween 1994 and 1996, four 30 minute episode OVA's were created featuring Godzilla and various other kaiju from the Showa series of movies. The characters were depicted in a cute and friendly 'chibi'-esque anime style. The series of OVA's was titled \"Godzilland\" (ゴジランド \"Gojirando\") and was aimed at primary school age children. This series featured Godzilla (the main protagonist), Gojirin (a pink female version of Godzilla), Minilla (Godzilla Junior), Mothra (and two Mothra larvae), King Ghidorah, Gigan, Hedorah (who is depicted as female in this adaptation), Moguera, Rodan, Baragon, Mechagodzilla, Anguirus and Ebirah. \"Godzilland\" was conceived initially to sell merchandise for the \"Godzill\"a franchise. The depictions of Godzilla and the various other kaiju were featured on stickers, toys, cards and board games.\n\nThe educational media company Gakken and the film studio Toho collaborated together to release two additional direct-to-video shorts of \"Godzilland\" which were both called \"Recommend! Godzilland\" (すすめ！ゴジランド \"Susume! Gojirando\") in 1994. The main purpose of the first of the two video shorts was teaching Japanese children how to write in Hiragana (すすめ!ゴジランド～ひらがな – \"Susume! Gojirando ~ Hi-ra ga na\") and the other was intended to teach Japanese children how to count. ( すすめ!ゴジランド～かず1・2・3 – \"Susume! Gojirando ~ kazu 1 2 3\"). Both specials featured all the characters who were in the \"Godzilland\" TV anime series. Two other TV specials were released two years later by the same company, but had different educational topics. These two specials were centered around math. The first of these two specials was called \"すすめ！ゴジランド-ゴジラとあそぼう たしざん – \"Susume! Gojirando – Gojira to asobouta shizan\" and the second was titled \"すすめ！ゴジランド ゴジラとあそぼう ひきざん – \"Susume! Gojirando Gojira to asobou hiki zan\". These two specials centered around addition and subtraction.\nThe episodes of \"Recommend! Godzilland\" was directed by Seinosuke Tanaka & Osamu Nakayama.\n\n\"Hi-ra ga na\" and \"kazu 1 2 3\" were the only two episodes to use both cel animation and digital ink and paint animation, but \"Gojira to asobouta shizan\" and \"Gojira to asobou hiki zan\" were the only episodes to fully use digital ink and paint animation.\n\n\"Godzilland\" also included live action segments, which featured a human girl and an actor in a Godzilla suit. The segments would consist of Godzilla telling the girl about his childhood adventures.\n\nThe success of the \"Godzilla\" franchise has spawned two American Saturday morning cartoon TV series: the first one is the collaboration series produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions and co-produced by Toho, \"Godzilla\", and the second one produced by Sony Pictures Television, \"\", a cartoon sequel to the 1998 film. Both series feature a scientific investigative team who call upon Godzilla as an ally, as well as making several homages to the Shōwa films. Several antagonist monsters in both series have been inspired by extant Toho creations.\n\nIn 1991, two \"Godzilla\" films, \"Godzilla vs. Megalon\" and \"Godzilla versus the Sea Monster\", were shown on the movie-mocking TV show \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\".\n\nA creature resembling Godzilla in parody, alongside another parody character resembling what appears to be a cross between Ultraman and Kamen Rider, appears in the television special \"Olive, The Other Reindeer\" during the song \"Merry Christmas After All\", during part of which Olive, Santa, and the other reindeer are shown passing through Tokyo delivering gifts. The two characters are shown to be friendly and taking part in the song and dance routine shown to include numerous figures, both real and fictional, in the show in various locations visited by the team as they make Santa's annual trip around the world.\n\nGodzilla made an appearance in a Nike commercial in which Godzilla (this version was created at ILM) went one-on-one in an oversized basketball game with a giant version of the NBA star Charles Barkley.\n\nGodzilla has been referenced multiple times in the American animated TV sitcom \"The Simpsons\". Godzilla first appeared in the episode \"Lisa on Ice\" when Lisa imagines herself on Monster Island and is chased by various kaiju, including Godzilla. It has also been referenced in \"Treehouse of Horror VI\", \"Mayored to the Mob\" (where Godzilla can be seen signing autographs at Bi-Mon-Sci-Fi-Con), \"Thirty Minutes over Tokyo\" (in which the plane carrying the Simpson family is being attacked by Godzilla, Rodan, Mothra and Gamera), \"Simpsons Tall Tales\", \"Treehouse of Horror XVI\", \"Homerazzi\", \"Wedding for Disaster\", \"The Real Housewives of Fat Tony\", \"Treehouse of Horror XXIV\" and \"Treehouse of Horror XXVI\".\n\nA game called \"Gojira-kun\" (which was originally going to be titled \"Gojiraland\") was released for the MSX in 1985. The art style is similar to the style used in the \"Godzilland\" OVA's. In 1990, \"Gojira-kun: Kaijū Daikōshin\" was released for the Game Boy. It featured sprites that were similar to the ones used in \"Gojira-kun\". The game included cut scenes that depicted a different style to the rest of the game. In 1993, \"Super Godzilla\" 's Bagan, a newly created Toho-approved creation, was released for the SNES and featured original monsters that were video game-only kaiju in a former film/movie. \n\nIn 2007, \"\" Krystalak and Obsidius, two newly created Toho-approved creations, was released for the Wii and DS and featured original monsters that were video game-only kaiju. Legendary's Godzilla was featured as a playable character in Bandai Namco's 2014 video game \"Godzilla\" as \"Hollywood Godzilla\". The widely popular video game \"Pokémon\" has made multiple references to Godzilla. The Dark/Rock type Pokémon Tyranitar is a direct reference to Godzilla. The Pokémon's appearance is a large green lizard monster-type creature who is characterised as an unstoppable force. In 2015–present, \"Gojira\" and \"Godzilla 2600\" from Homebrew fangame were released for the NES and Atari 2600.\n\nA \"Godzilla\" series of books was published by Random House during the late 1990s. The company created different series for different age groups, the Scott Ciencin series being aimed at preteens and the Marc Cerasini series being aimed at teens and young adults. Several manga have been derived from specific \"Godzilla\" films and both Marvel and Dark Horse have published \"Godzilla\" comic book series (1977–1979 and 1987–1999, respectively). In 2011, IDW Publishing started a new series \"Godzilla: Kingdom of Monsters\" rebooting the Godzilla story. It was followed by two sequel series, \"Godzilla\" (published in book form as \"Godzilla: History's Greatest Monster\") and \"Godzilla: Rulers of Earth\", as well as seven five-issue miniseries to date.\n\nTo tie-in with the 2014 film, three books were published. Titan Books published a novelization of the movie in May 2014, written by Greg Cox. The graphic novel \"Godzilla: Awakening\" by Max Borenstein, Greg Borenstein and Eric Battle served as a prequel, and \"Godzilla: The Art of Destruction\" by Mark Cotta told about the making of the movie. Godzilla has been referenced in \"The Simpsons\" comics on three separate occasions. The character is featured in \"Bart Simpson's Guide to Life\" where it and other kaiju characters such as Minilla and King Ghidorah can be seen; it is featured in the comic \"An Anime Among Us!\" and \"K-Bart\". Godzilla is also featured in the comic \"Bart Simpson's Treehouse of Horror 7\" where it and other kaiju can be seen referenced on the front cover. Godzilla has also been referenced in Marc Brown's \"Arthur\" adventure book called \"Arthur's April Fool\" where Francine told Arthur & Buster that they need to pick on someone their own size like Godzilla. Both Godzilla & Arthur became the two of the most popular characters to root for.\n\n\"\", the soundtrack album of \"Godzilla\" (1998), sold 2.5million copies worldwide. The album's lead single, \"Come with Me\" by Puff Daddy featuring Jimmy Page, sold a certified 2.025million copies worldwide. Its Japan-exclusive single, \"Lose Control\" by Japanese rock band L'Arc-en-Ciel, sold 938,401 copies in Japan. \"Shin Godzilla Ongakushuu\", the soundtrack album of \"Shin Godzilla\" (2016), sold 43,951 copies in Japan. \"Mars\" (1991), an album by the Japanese rock duo B'z featuring a Godzilla-themed song, sold 1,730,500 copies in Japan.\n\nBlue Öyster Cult released the song \"Godzilla\" in 1977. Artists such as Fu Manchu, Racer X and Double Experience have included cover versions of this song on their albums. American musician Michale Graves wrote a song titled \"Godzilla\" for his 2005 album, \"Punk Rock Is Dead.\" The lyrics mention Godzilla and several on-screen adversaries such as Mothra, Hedorah, Destoroyah, and Gigan. The Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura has a song titled \"Biotech is Godzilla\" on its 1993 release \"Chaos A.D.\" The French death metal band Gojira named the band after Godzilla's name in Japanese. \n\nThe song \"Simon Says\" by Pharoahe Monch is a hip-hop remix of the Godzilla March theme song. The instrumental version of this song was notably used in the 2000 film \"Charlie's Angels\". The British band Lostprophets released a song called \"We Are Godzilla, You Are Japan\" on its second studio album \"Start Something\". The American punk band Groovie Ghoulies released a song called \"Hats off to You (Godzilla)\" as a tribute to Godzilla. It is featured on the EP \"Freaks on Parade\" released in 2002. The American artist Doctor Steel released a song called 'Atomic Superstar' about Godzilla on his album \"People of Earth\" in 2002. In 2003, the British singer Siouxsie Sioux released the album \"Hái!\" with her band The Creatures; the album had a Japanese theme with a song dedicated to the monster, simply titled \"Godzilla!\".\n\nThe record label Shifty issued compilation \"Destroysall\" with 15 songs from 15 bands, ranging from hardcore punk to doom-laden death metal. Not all songs are dedicated to Godzilla, but all do appear connected to monsters from Toho Studios. Fittingly, the disc was released on August 1, 2003, the 35th anniversary of the Japanese release of \"Destroy All Monsters\".\nKing Geedorah (a.k.a. MF DOOM) released \"Take Me to Your Leader\", a hip-hop album featuring guests from the group Monsta Island Czars, another Godzilla-themed hip-hop group. These albums include multiple Godzilla samples throughout the series. Taiwanese American electronic musician Mochipet released the EP \"Godzilla Rehab Center\" on August 21, 2012, featuring songs named after monsters in the series including Gigan, King Ghidorah, Moguera and Hedorah.\n\nGodzilla is one of the most recognizable symbols of Japanese popular culture worldwide and is an important facet of Japanese films, embodying the kaiju subset of the tokusatsu genre. It has been considered a filmographic metaphor for the United States (with the \"-zilla\" part of the name being used in vernacular language as a suffix to indicate something of exaggerated proportions), as well as an allegory of nuclear weapons in general. The earlier \"Godzilla\" films, especially the original \"Godzilla\", portrayed Godzilla as a frightening, nuclear monster. Godzilla represented the fears that many Japanese held about the nuclear attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the possibility of recurrence.\n\nAt least two prehistoric creatures from the fossil record have been named after Godzilla. \"Gojirasaurus quayi\" is a theropod dinosaur that lived in the Triassic Period; a partial skeleton was unearthed in Quay County, New Mexico. \"Dakosaurus andiniensis\", a crocodile from the Jurassic Period, was nicknamed \"Godzilla\" before being scientifically classified. In 2010 the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society named their most recently acquired scout vessel MV \"Gojira\". Toho, the people in charge of the \"Godzilla\" franchise, served them with a notice to remove the name and in response the boat's name was changed in May 2011 to MV \"Brigitte Bardot\".\n\n\"The Return of Godzilla\" (1984) generated merchandise sales in Japan. \"Godzilla\" (1998) generated more than in merchandise sales. In Japan, \"Godzilla\" merchandise sold () in 2016, and () in 2017. Combined, \"Godzilla\" generated at least more than in merchandise sales as of 2017.\n\n\n(*) In 1996 Godzilla received an award for Lifetime Achievement at the MTV Movie Awards. Creator and producer Shōgo Tomiyama accepted on his behalf via satellite and was joined by \"Godzilla\" himself.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18688552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18688552", "title": "Guadalajara International Book Fair", "text": "Guadalajara International Book Fair\n\nThe Guadalajara International Book Fair, better known as the FIL (from its Spanish name: Feria Internacional del Libro de Guadalajara) is the largest book fair of the Americas, and second largest book fair in the world after Frankfurt's. It is also considered the most important cultural annual event of its kind in the Spanish-speaking world.\nThe purpose of the FIL is to provide an optimal business environment for the book-industry professionals and exhibitors who attend the fair, and for the reading public eager to meet authors and pick up the latest entries in the market.\n\nCreated in 1987, the FIL is put on by the University of Guadalajara and is held at the Expo Guadalajara convention center, which has 40,000 m of floor space. FIL is held every year, starting on the last Saturday in November and continuing for nine days, in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.\n\nThe current managing director of the Guadalajara International Book Fair is Marisol Schulz, and its president is Raúl Padilla López.\n\nAs a way of rewarding and honouring literary publishing, the FIL awards the following annual prizes and honours:\n\n\nSince 1993, the FIL has invited a country or region to be the guest of honor, providing each an opportunity to display the best of its cultural and literary heritage. Beginning with that year, the guests of honor have been: Colombia (1993), New Mexico (USA) (1994), Venezuela (1995), Canada (1996), Argentina (1997), Puerto Rico (1998), Chile (1999), Spain (2000), Brazil (2001), Cuba (2002), Quebec (2003), Catalan culture (2004), Peru (2005), Andalusia (2006), Colombia (2007), Italy (2008), Los Angeles (2009), Castile and León (2010), Germany (2011), Chile (2012), Israel (2013), Argentina (2014) and United Kingdom (2015).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28101273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28101273", "title": "Hell icon", "text": "Hell icon\n\nHell icons (, \"adopisnaya ikona\", lit. \"Hell-written icon\" or \"Hell-painted icon\") are legendary icons with images of Devil hidden under the primer, the riza or the painted layer. Also, the image of saints could include horns hidden under the paint. \n\nThe term \"Hell-written\" first occurs in \"Prologue\" (Eastern Orthodox Synaxarium) regarding Sabellianist church banners. \"Full Church Slavonic dictionary\" gives the following commentary: \"painted in hell\". The term \"Hell icons\" is mostly used amongst Old Believers. The painting of hell icons, known as \"adopis\" or \"hellography\" (as opposed to iconography), was also a type of black magic in medieval Russia.\n\nHell icons were first mentioned in the \"Life of St. Basil\" (the 16th century): Basil threw a rock at the icon of Virgin Mary before the eyes of the astonished crowd of pilgrims. Then he allegedly showed that the image of the devil was hidden under the paint.\n\nMessages about hell icons appeared in newspaper articles and the literature of the 19th century, but such articles reported only the later icons of \"cheap and clumsily painting.\" Nikolai Leskov, who was interested in Christian iconography, included a reference to hell icons in his story \"The Sealed Angel\" (1872) and in short article \"On hell icons\" (), published in 1873. \n\nDespite these studies, in the 20th century Russian linguist Nikita Tolstoy doubted the fact of their real existence. This point of view is shared by modern art critics due to lack of material evidence (all such icons, if ever existed, have been lost).\n"}
{"id": "19958663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19958663", "title": "High School Musical (franchise)", "text": "High School Musical (franchise)\n\nThe \"High School Musical\" franchise consists of three Disney musical romantic comedy-drama films directed by Kenny Ortega and created by Peter Barsocchini with a fourth installment in pre-production. It stars Zac Efron, Vanessa Hudgens, Ashley Tisdale, Lucas Grabeel, Corbin Bleu, and Monique Coleman. The original film was released simply as a Disney Channel Original Movie, but after its huge success, it was followed by a television sequel. The received a theatrical release. Tisdale and Grabeel reprised their roles as Sharpay and Ryan Evans in a spin-off on the series titled \"Sharpay's Fabulous Adventure\", ultimately released as a direct-to-video film. Numerous international versions have been created, plus stage musicals and video games have been released, among other things. On March 1, 2016, a fourth installment was announced. In November 2017, a television spin-off of the franchise was announced to be in development. The films have developed a cult following.\n\n\"High School Musical\" was released on January 20, 2006 as a Disney Channel Original Movie (DCOM), and was the most successful DCOM ever produced. The film was Disney Channel's most watched DCOM in 2006, with 7.7 million viewers for its premiere broadcast in the United States, and 789,000 viewers for its UK premiere. It was the first DCOM ever to be broadcast by BBC on December 29, 2006, and has been viewed by over 225 million people worldwide. The first film's leads were Zac Efron, Vanessa Hudgens, Ashley Tisdale and Lucas Grabeel, who sang most of the songs.\n\nThe film follows star athlete Troy Bolton (Zac Efron) and shy, smart Gabriella Montez (Vanessa Hudgens). Troy and Gabriella meet while vacationing at a ski lodge over Christmas Break and inadvertently participate in a karaoke contest together (\"Start of Something New\"). When school starts in January, drama queen Sharpay Evans (Ashley Tisdale) makes a dramatic entrance at East High, Troy's school. At this point, Gabriella is revealed to be a new transfer student to the school; she and Troy reconnect. Later that day, the pair are seen talking at the sign-up sheet for the Winter Musical by Sharpay. Her twin brother and co-president Ryan (Lucas Grabeel) notices that Troy seems interested in the sign-up sheet. Sharpay learns that Gabriella was a top student at her old schools and convinces Scholastic Decathlon captain Taylor McKessie (Monique Coleman) to invite Gabriella to the team as a distraction from auditioning. Troy's best friend, Chad Danforth (Corbin Bleu), is concerned that Troy's mind seems to have wandered away from basketball despite being varsity team captain and struggles to keep his attention.\n\nAs the day of auditions quickly approaches, Troy and Gabriella are too shy to come forward, after watching Sharpay and Ryan perform their own flashy arrangement of a love song (\"What I've Been Looking For\"). Kelsi Nielsen (Olesya Rulin), the composer and writer of the musical, objects, but is ridiculed by Sharpay. Following the audition, Troy and Gabriella pluck up the courage to come forward, but drama teacher Ms. Darbus (Alyson Reed) declares it too late to audition, and they are left crestfallen. As they are about to leave, Kelsi trips and drops her music. After helping her pick it up, they listen to her play the intended version of the song. Ms. Darbus overhears Troy and Gabriella singing and invites them to a callback.\n\nWhen the school finds out that Troy and Gabriella have auditioned for the Winter Musical, everyone fears the status quo of the school is drastically changing, and Sharpay gets frustrated and worried (\"Stick to the Status Quo\"). Chad and Taylor are afraid that their respective teams will fall to pieces, so the pair stage individual interventions and get Troy and Gabriella to change their minds about their respective auditions. This particularly affects Gabriella, who now believes that Troy didn't really care about their friendship (\"When There Was Me And You\"). Upon realizing the damage they have caused, Chad and Taylor's respective groups feel guilty and fix the situation. When word comes that Troy and Gabriella are still interested in auditioning, Sharpay and Ryan convince Ms. Darbus to change the date of the callbacks to the same date as the game and the Decathlon. The pair go on as planned with their audition (\"Bop to the Top\"). Fearful that their friends will be unable to attend the callbacks, Chad and Taylor stage a school-wide computer glitch that forces the whole school to stop the game and the Decathlon, and lead all the students into the auditorium. When Troy and Gabriella are late, Ms. Darbus considers cancelling Troy and Gabriella's callback; however, they arrive in the nick of time and sing (\"Breaking Free\"). In the end, Ms. Darbus decides to award the lead roles to Troy and Gabriella, making Sharpay and Ryan understudies. Sharpay is saddened that she didn't get the lead role in the musical, but does not retain any hard feelings. The film ends with the entire school gathering in the gym to celebrate East High's basketball victory (\"We're All in This Together\").\n\nIn a post-credits scene, Zeke Baylor (Chris Warren Jr.) is the only one left in the gym; he's approached by Sharpay, who has developed a love for his baking.\n\nIt's the end of the school year, and everyone's excited for summer vacation (\"What Time is It?\"). Gabriella is happy to finally be spending her summer vacation without having to move. When the whole gang gets hired at Lava Springs Country Club as summer help, resident drama queen Sharpay, whose parents own the club, is concerned that the Wildcats are once again marching in on her territory (\"Fabulous\"). While taking time out of her day to convince club manager Mr. Fulton (Mark L. Taylor) to intimidate the Wildcats into quitting (\"Work This Out\").\n\nMeanwhile, the club is preparing for the end-of-summer talent show, and the piano-playing Kelsi has written a special ballad especially for Troy and Gabriella (\"You Are the Music in Me\"), one that Sharpay would like rearranged for just her and Troy. Sharpay schemes to win over Troy by offering him various luxuries, including a chance for a college scholarship. Although Troy says he's committed to his relationship with Gabriella, Gabriella grows concerned after hearing he's spending more time with Sharpay. When Ryan discovers that Sharpay is no longer interested in his talent due to her pursuit of Troy, he finds himself spending more time with the Wildcats, even playing against Chad in a staff baseball game (\"I Don't Dance\"), one that Troy skips to attend a college hoops practice which Sharpay has indirectly set up. Ryan even goes so far as to secretly prepare a special dance number for the Wildcats to perform at the talent show. When Sharpay stumbles upon the Wildcats' rehearsal, she orders Mr. Fulton, to disallow all Junior Staff to partake in the talent show, namely the Wildcats. Fulton draws up a quick memo and pushes Activities Director, Taylor (Monique Coleman), to notify the staff.\n\nTroy's good mood suddenly turns sour when everyone starts ignoring him. After a devastating rehearsal with Sharpay for the talent show (\"You Are the Music in Me (Reprise)\"), Troy loses Gabriella (\"Gotta Go My Own Way\"), who informs him of her frustration with Sharpay's scheme and quits her job at Lava Springs. He discovers the reason for his friends' coldness when Kelsi quietly passes him Mr. Fulton's memo (\"Bet on It\"). An angry Troy then confronts Sharpay and tells her he has to break his promise and not sing with her. When Chad and the Wildcats find out he's no longer singing in the show, they push him to go back to Sharpay, and only moments before the show does Ryan tell Troy she picked a different song. When Troy announces his disappointment to Sharpay of the change, Sharpay is left surprised and confused- she never chose another song. As the final act, Troy is on stage singing solo, not knowing what to expect. Gabriella surprisingly comes back and joins him. The rest of the Wildcats soon come on stage as well to complete the musical number (\"Everyday\"). Sharpay learns her lesson in humility and is invited to join in; instead of awarding the Star Dazzle Trophy (given to the best act) to herself as usual, she chooses to give it to Ryan. Afterwards, the gang enjoys viewing the fireworks while Troy and Gabriella share their first kiss.\n\nEveryone celebrates the end of the summer with a staff pool party (\"All for One\").\n\nIt's the end of the Wildcats' championship basketball game against the West High Knights, where team captain Troy immediately rallies their spirits (\"Now or Never\"). At Troy's after-party, Troy and his girlfriend, Gabriella, are seen sitting in Troy's treehouse reflecting about the past year and picturing how their last few months at East High would end (\"Right Here, Right Now\").\n\nThe following week at East High, Sharpay made another dramatic entrance and Ms. Darbus is alarmed when few students sign up to audition for the Spring Musical, and Sharpay suggests that she perform a one-woman show. Quickly, the discouraged playwright, Kelsi, scribbles on the sign up sheet everyone in her homeroom class, including Sharpay, Ryan, Troy, Gabriella, and the less than enthusiastic Chad, Taylor, and other fellow Wildcats. Conclusively, Ms. Darbus announces that the Spring Musical will reflect the students' final days at East High. Ms. Darbus also announces that she will select one student for a Juilliard scholarship with Sharpay, Ryan, Kelsi, and Troy under consideration. Desperate to win the scholarship and knowing Kelsi will give the lead roles to Troy and Gabriella, Sharpay tries to persuade Ryan (Lucas Grabeel) to help her convince Kelsi to consider them instead by predicting their future in theater (\"I Want It All\").\n\nProm is around the corner, and Chad asks Taylor to be his date. She declines because she feels him to be unenthused about the event. Subsequently, Chad jumps onto a table and announces to the entire cafeteria that he is interested in having Taylor be his date, and she accepts (\"A Night to Remember\"). Meanwhile, Gabriella, in a surprise move, finds out that she has a chance to attend college really early. Sharpay told Troy that Gabriella is going to Stanford early. Troy encourages Gabriella to go, convinced that he is the only reason holding her back. However, on Prom night, Troy drives out to pick up Gabriella as East High is not the same without her. Days later, the play finally goes on as planned (\"Spring Musical\"), and Sharpay is prepared for the last musical at East High. At the close of the evening, Ms. Darbus announces that both Kelsi and Ryan each received the scholarship to Juilliard. Troy's final choice is Berkeley, a school not far from Gabriella's (\"We're All in This Together (Graduation Mix)\").\n\nThe film concludes with a big celebratory graduation (\"High School Musical\"), and then, like a stage musical, has closeups of the lead actors.\n\nIn early 2016, Disney announced that a fourth installment of the series was \"in the works\", later announcing a casting call for the film, tentatively referred to as \"High School Musical 4\". In March 2016, details about the film's prospective principal characters were reported.\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" put it on its end-of-the-decade, \"best-of\" list, saying, \"Call it children stuff. But HSM became a billion-dollar hit across screens big and small thanks to a love of song, dance, and happy endings. And that's pure, old-fashioned showbiz.\" The original \"High School Musical\" sold 8million DVD units, earning an operating income of . East High School was chosen as the Number 1 \"Top Five Best High Schools from Movies and TV\" by St. Petersburg Times.\n\n\"Sharpay's Fabulous Adventure\" is a direct-to video film and spin-off starring Ashley Tisdale. The film looks at Sharpay's life after graduation, trying to get a role in a Broadway show. The film was released as a Blu-ray/DVD combination pack on April 19, 2011. The film takes place shortly after the graduation of the original cast. It starts with Sharpay Evans, the spin-off's protagonist, learning about the audition to a musical on Broadway. So, Sharpay travels to New York City with her dog Boi and meets Peyton Leverett (Austin Butler). Everything goes awry on such a \"fabulous adventure\" for Sharpay. One example includes Boi and another boy's (Bradley Steven Perry) dog running away. Searching for the pets, he and Sharpay find that the dogs are madly in love. By the end, Sharpay gets the part in a real Broadway musical and shares a kiss with Peyton. Then her twin brother Ryan Evans visits, to say that he is not in Juilliard with Kelsi as hinted in \"Senior Year\".\n\n\"High School Musical: The Challenge\" refers to the English name of a series of spin-offs of the American film \"High School Musical\" for the Latin American market, based on the book \"Battle of the Bands\". The films were scripted for a theatrical release and had eight new songs produced exclusively for the film. The film was first adapted in Argentina in February 2008 with the title \"High School Musical: El Desafío\", for Mexico in August 2008 and then for Brazil, with the title \"High School Musical: O Desafio\" in 2010.\n\nThe team captain discovers that the girl next door has changed a lot over the summer. Meanwhile, the mean girl is still as vain as ever and overshadows her poor brother and his \"invisible\" friends. When the school year begins, the school announces a \"Battle of the Bands\" contest. Working against the clock and with limited resources, both cliques pull their respective forces together for the big day. However, in an effort to win, dreams are thwarted, and only one band will be the winner.\n\n\"High School Musical: China\" (), (also known as \"High School Musical: China – College Dreams\") is a spin-off of the \"High School Musical\" series for the Chinese market. It was released in August 2011. The film is a Chinese version of the American series, released in North America on DVD under the Disney World Cinema Brand. \"Film Business Asia\" critic Derek Elley rated the adaptation three points out of ten and called the choreography by former Madonna dancer, Ruthy Inchaustegui, and songs \"bland\". However, Elley picked the three songs as \"half-memorable\": \"the ballad 'Rainy Season' () [sung by] two lead[ing characters,] the glitzy 'Perfection' () [by] the college rich-bitch[,] and [the] climatic 'I Can Fly' (), which doesn't quite succeed at being an , uplifting ballad.\"\n\nOn November 9, 2017, a televsion spin-off was announced to be in development. On September 6, 2018, Disney announced that it begun casting for a reimagining of the film for its upcoming streaming service, titled High School Musical: The Musical. The 10-episode series will be structured as a single-camera mockumentary, and feature both music from the original film, as well as new songs.\n\nOn October 17, 2018, it was announced that Joshua Bassett would play the lead role of Ricky in the series.\n\nOn January 20, 2016, to celebrate the movie’s 10th anniversary, the cast reunited and shared fond memories and photos from the past and present. The special aired on Disney Channel with Vanessa Hudgens, Ashley Tisdale, Corbin Bleu, Lucas Grabeel and Monique Coleman in attendance. Zac Efron was absent because of \"Dirty Grandpa\"s promotion, but sent in a video sharing his memories about shooting the film and thanking fans.\n\nThe \"High School Musical: The Concert\" tour started on November 29, 2006, kicking off in San Diego. The tour continued until January 28, 2007, performing in major cities around the United States, Canada, and Latin America. The concert featured all of the original cast members, except for Zac Efron, who was shooting Hairspray. Efron was replaced by Drew Seeley (whose voice was blended with Efron's during the film). The concert featured the original songs from the film, as well as songs from Vanessa Hudgens, Ashley Tisdale, and Corbin Bleu.\n\n\"High School Musical\" was adapted to a stage musical starting in early 2006 with two versions: a 70-minute One Act play and a full-length Two Act musical. On August 1, 2006, Playbill announced that the Stagedoor Manor summer theater camp, featured in the film \"Camp\", would be the first venue to produce \"High School Musical\" on-stage. Pacific Repertory Theatre School of Dramatic Arts staged the California premiere in 2007, which was revived in 2008.\n\nFrom early 2007 though the end of July, North Shore Music Theatre in Beverly, Massachusetts had a production of \"High School Musical\" that featured Broadway actor Andrew Keenan-Bolger as Ryan and Kate Rockwell, a semi-finalist on \"\", as Sharpay.\n\n\"High School Musical 2\" was later adapted to a stage musical starting in late 2008. Both theatrical versions include \"Hummuhummunukunukuapua'a\", a song cut from the film but included on the DVD. Pacific Repertory Theatre School of Dramatic Arts presented the West Coast premiere of \"High School Musical 2\" in January 2009. The production was directed by PacRep founder Stephen Moorer, who had directed the California premiere of the first \"High School Musical\".\n\nDuring July and August 2008, ABC broadcast a reality competition based on the series \"High School Musical: Get in the Picture\",\n\n\"High School Musical Summer Celebration\" was a touring music show featuring songs and dances from all three movies. The show was produced by Feld Entertainment.\n\nIn 2010, Disney announced their intention to film a television spin-off of the film series entitled \"Madison High\" and began casting that same year. A pilot episode for the series was officially ordered in early 2011, which would star Luke Benward, G. Hannelius, Leah Lewis, Katherine McNamara, Mark Indelicato, and Nolan Sotillo. The episode contained four songs, and, if picked up, would have marked the first crossover and spin-off between a Disney Channel Original Movie and a Disney Channel Original Series. However, although the pilot was filmed, \"Madison High\" was not ordered to series, and the pilot episode had never aired.\n\n\"Feld Entertainment\" produced a global tour titled \"High School Musical: The Ice Tour,\" which had its world premiere in New York City, on September 29, 2007. The cast included 2004 World Junior Bronze Medalist Jordan Brauninger and 2004–2005 Australian national champion Bradley Santer. The show contained elements and songs from both the original film and its sequel, \"High School Musical 2\" and now features a special preview of \"High School Musical 3: Senior Year\".\n\nIn June 2006, Disney Press published \"High School Musical: The Junior Novel\", the novelization of the successful film. This novel hit number one on the \"New York Times\" best-selling list and remained on the list for sixteen weeks. As of August 2007, the novel has sold more than 4.5 million copies, with 1 million copies of the novel's follow-up, \"High School Musical 2: The Junior Novel\", being shipped to American retailers. \"High School Musical 3: Senior Year: The Junior Novel\" came out on September 23, 2008. Shortly after the success of the original novel, Disney announced that a book series, entitled \"Stories From East High\", would be published in February 2007 with a new book being published every 60 days until July 2008.\n\nDisney Interactive Studios has produced 6 \"High School Musical\" video games, all taking the guise of music video games incorporating songs and plots from the films.\n\nBetween 2007 and 2010, Disney Italia produced and published a series of comics starring the characters of the movies in an official magazine. Some of the stories have been published abroad, such as in Finland and Greece.\n\n"}
{"id": "12930350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12930350", "title": "Japan Media Arts Festival", "text": "Japan Media Arts Festival\n\nThe Japan Media Arts Festival is an annual festival held since 1997 by Japan's Agency for Cultural Affairs. The festival begins with an open competition and culminates with the awarding of several prizes and an exhibition.\n\nBased on judging by a jury of artistic peers, awards are given in four categories: Art (formerly called Non-Interactive Digital Art), Entertainment (formerly called Interactive Art; including video games and websites), Animation, and Manga. Within each category, one Grand Prize, four Excellence Prizes, and (since 2002) one Encouragement Prize are awarded. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7883044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7883044", "title": "Kamchatkan languages", "text": "Kamchatkan languages\n\nKamchatkan (Kamchatic) is a former dialect cluster spoken on the Kamchatka Peninsula. It now consists of a single language, Western Itelmen (also called Western Kamchadal). It had 100 or fewer speakers in 1991, mostly of the older generation. The Russian census of 2010 still reported 80 speakers.\n\nThere are incomplete records attesting of at least two other divergent varieties, Eastern (also: Northern) Kamchadal and Southern Kamchadal, both extinct in the late 18th century.\n\nKamchadal languages, though traditionally considered dialects, were apparently distinct enough to be classified as separate languages (Comrie 1981). The three varieties were spoken in western, eastern, and southern Kamchatka. The degree of difference can be illustrated with the pronoun 'we', which is Western \"muza, muza'n\", Southern \"muš, burin\", Eastern \"buze\".\n\nKamchatkan is not closely related to the Chukotkan languages. Although distant enough for doubts about its relationship to have been raised (as in Volodin 1976), cognate morphology clearly demonstrates that it forms a family with Chukotkan (Comrie 1981), though it also has some striking contrasts, especially in the area of phonology. The Chukotko-Kamchatkan proto-language has been partially reconstructed (Fortescue 2005). \n\nMichael Fortescue believes that Kamchatkan may have a substratum of a language formerly spoken by a remnant Beringian population (Fortescue 1998:210). For instance, Kamchatkan has ejectives, which are common among languages of the Pacific Northwest, but rare in languages of Northeast Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1553858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1553858", "title": "Kapa haka", "text": "Kapa haka\n\nKapa haka is the term for Māori performing arts and literally means to form a line (kapa) and dance (haka). Kapa haka is an avenue for Māori people to express and showcase their heritage and cultural Polynesian identity through song and dance.\n\nKapa haka dates back to pre-European times where it developed from all traditional forms of Maori pastimes; haka, mau rakau (Maori weaponry), poi (ball attached to rope or string) and moteatea (traditional Maori songs). These everyday activities were influential to the development of kapa haka.\n\nA kapa haka performance involves choral singing, dance and movements associated in the hand-to-hand combat practised by Māori in mainly precolonial times, presented in a synchronisation of action, timing, posture, footwork and sound. The genre evolved out of a combination of European and Māori musical principles.\n\nThe work of a kapa haka consists of the performance of a suite of songs and dances spanning several types of Māori music and dance, strung together into a coherent whole. Music and dance types that normally appear are \"waiata tira\" (warm-up song), \"whakaeke\" (entrance song), \"waiata-ā-ringa\" (action song), \"haka\" (challenge), \"pou\" or \"mōteatea\" (old-style singing), \"poi\" (co-ordinated swinging of balls attached to cords), and \"whakawātea\" (closing song). They may also include \"tītī tōrea\" (synchronised manipulation of thin sticks). In a full performance, which can last up to 40 minutes, each music or dance type may appear more than once.\n\nMusic for kapa haka is primarily vocal. All song types, with the notable exceptions of mōteatea and haka, are structured around European-style harmony, frequently with guitar accompaniment and acoustics. Spurts of haka-style declamation are woven into the songs, as are dance movements, facial expressions and other bodily and aural signals unique to Māori. Song poetry is completely in Māori and new material is continually being composed.\n\nThe sole musical instruments used in kapa haka performances are the guitar, the \"pūtatara\" conch shell, the sounds of \"poi\" and \"rākau\" (see below) and body percussion, especially the stamping of feet.\n\nKapa haka are mixed groups of anywhere between several and dozens of people, dressed in neo-traditional Māori dress. These groups comprise individuals linked in some way, be it by extended family group, \"iwi\" (tribe), school, or some other association. Performers are largely synchronised, but with men sometimes doing some actions while women do others. A few performers have particular roles, such as the \"kaitataki\" (male and female leaders), often moving among the performers to urge them on. Composers, arrangers, choreographers and costume designers also play major roles.\n\nEvery two years, kapa haka from all parts of New Zealand compete in Te Matatini, New Zealand's national Māori performing arts competition for adult groups. Another important competition takes place yearly at the ASB Bank Auckland Secondary Schools Māori and Pacific Islands Cultural Festival, commonly known as Polyfest, where the level of performance is also very high.\n\nNot all Māori performance types are used by kapa haka. Below are brief descriptions of the ones that usually appear. See Māori music for a wider discussion of Māori music.\n\n"}
{"id": "460394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=460394", "title": "Keyword (rhetoric)", "text": "Keyword (rhetoric)\n\nKeywords are the words that academics use to reveal the internal structure of an author's \nreasoning. While they are used primarily for rhetoric, they are also used in a strictly \ngrammatical sense for structural composition, reasoning, and comprehension. Indeed, they are \nan essential part of any language.\n\nThere are many different types of keyword categories including: Conclusion, Continuation, Contrast,\nEmphasis, Evidence, Illustration and Sequence. Each category serves its own function, as do the keywords\ninside of a given category.\n\nWhen someone uses a search engine, they type in one or more words describing what they are looking for:\n'Norwich florist' or 'cheap holidays Greece', for example. These words or phrases are known as keywords.\n\nIn corpus linguistics, key words are words that appear with statistically unusual frequency in a text\nor a corpus of texts. They are identified by software that compares a word-list of the text with a word-list\nbased on a larger reference corpus. A suitable term for the phenomenon is keyness. The procedure used,\nfor example by WordSmith, to list key words and phrases and plot where they appear in texts. These items\nare very often of interest—particularly those human readers would not likely notice, such as prepositions,\ntime adverbs, and pronouns.\n\nOne method used to teach keywords is called the \"keyword method.\" It involves taking complex keywords that students do not know very well, and makes them into easier words. The easier words must have something to do with the complex keywords so students can correlate between the two.\n\nAmsterdam: Benjamins.\n\n"}
{"id": "13454250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13454250", "title": "List of cultural entities with sole naming rights", "text": "List of cultural entities with sole naming rights\n\nThe following is a list of cultural entities with sole naming rights:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42643529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42643529", "title": "List of years in New Zealand television", "text": "List of years in New Zealand television\n\nThis is a list of years in New Zealand television.\n\n"}
{"id": "27174049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27174049", "title": "Miletus ware", "text": "Miletus ware\n\nMiletus ware is a type of pottery that was produced in various locations in Anatolia between the late 14th and mid 15th centuries. The pottery was discovered through excavations in the 1930s by Friedrich Sarre at Miletus, hence the ware's name. This pottery type was not produced at Miletus, but in other towns such as İznik and Kütahya.\n\nMiletus ware used red clay as a base, covered with white slip, with simple designs in blue, turquoise and purple. The design often incorporated \"sunburst\" and vegetal patterns.\n\nMiletus ware was superseded in the early 15th century by Iznik pottery, with the introduction of white bodies instead of the red clays. However, there is a certain continuity in the colours used for the decoration.\n"}
{"id": "49544560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49544560", "title": "Ministry of Culture and Sports (Qatar)", "text": "Ministry of Culture and Sports (Qatar)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture and Sports () is the ministry responsible for administering Qatar's cultural policies and programs. Its responsibilities include organizing cultural events, promoting cultural cooperation, publishing local literature and raising awareness of Qatar's culture. As of 2016, the ministry also presides over sport and youth club affairs. The current minister is H.E.Salah bin Ghanim Al Ali.\n\nQatar's culture ministry has undergone several phases through its history until its official establishment in 2008. Prior to that year, the country's cultural policies were administered in tandem with other government ministries. In 1975, the first government department for culture was formed as part of the Ministry of Information. The ministry eventually integrated as the Ministry of Information and Culture in 1989. During Hamad Bin Abdulaziz Al-Kawari tenure as Minister of Information and Culture from 1992 to 1996, he took steps to reduce media censorship.\n\nQatar's government decided to delegate its cultural administration to the Ministry of Education in 1996, resulting in its reformation as the Ministry of Education and Culture. \n\nThe first stand-alone government agency for culture was established in 1998 as the National Council for Culture, Arts and Heritage. Ten years later, the government replaced the National Council with the newly created Ministry of Culture, Arts and Heritage. In 2016, the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Heritage was merged with the Ministry of Youth and Sports (est. 2013) to form the Ministry of Culture and Sports.\n\nThe Ministry of Culture is heavily involved in the coordination the Year of Culture initiatives which are organized primarily by the Qatar Museums Authority. The initiative entails cultural exchanges and the hosting of cultural exhibitions and events which showcase the culture of a select country for a duration of one year. Its inaugural edition was held in 2012 and featured Japan as Qatar's cultural exchange partner. In March 2013, during the Qatar–UK Year of Culture, the ministry held an Arts and Disability Festival in Katara. It was the first major Arts and Disability Festival to take place in the Middle East.\n\nMohammed Hassan Al Kuwari, lead researcher at the Ministry's Department of Research and Studies, oversaw the publication of four books in 2014: \"Cultural Publications of the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Heritage from 1976 to 2013\", \"The Directory of Qatari Authors\", \"The Directory of Cultural Institutions\", and \"The Directory of Photographers in Qatar\".\n\nThe ministry has several sections and departments for both cultural activities and publications or broadcasts. The Department of Press and Publications is involved in granting licenses, registering writers, and overseeing the censorship of publications. The Department of Communications oversees the conference of licenses while also presiding over the ministry's broadcasting stations. There is a Research Department which is in charge of the translation and research of publications. The Public Libraries Department has four separate sections and is mainly involved in making the ministry's latest publications accessible to the public.\n\nCultural activities are managed by the Department of Cultural Activities. The Department of Theatrical Activities handles the recording of the country's drama and theatre groups and is directly responsible for creating new theatre groups. Music and music groups are administered by the Department of Popular Arts and Music. There is also a Department of Visual Arts.\n\nOther departments of the ministry include a Human Resources Department, a Finances and Administration Department and a Youth Centre Management Department.\n\n"}
{"id": "1926443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1926443", "title": "Naming convention (programming)", "text": "Naming convention (programming)\n\nIn computer programming, a naming convention is a set of rules for choosing the character sequence to be used for identifiers which denote variables, types, functions, and other entities in source code and documentation.\n\nReasons for using a naming convention (as opposed to allowing programmers to choose any character sequence) include the following:\n\n\nThe choice of naming conventions can be an enormously controversial issue, with partisans of each holding theirs to be the best and others to be inferior. Colloquially, this is said to be a matter of dogma. Many companies have also established their own set of conventions.\n\nSome of the potential benefits that can be obtained by adopting a naming convention include the following:\n\n\nThe choice of naming conventions (and the extent to which they are enforced) is often a contentious issue, with partisans holding their viewpoint to be the best and others to be inferior. Moreover, even with known and well-defined naming conventions in place, some organizations may fail to consistently adhere to them, causing inconsistency and confusion. These challenges may be exacerbated if the naming convention rules are internally inconsistent, arbitrary, difficult to remember, or otherwise perceived as more burdensome than beneficial.\n\nWell-chosen identifiers make it significantly easier for developers and analysts to understand what the system is doing and how to fix or extend the source code to apply for new needs.\n\nFor example, although the statement\nis syntactically correct, its purpose is not evident. Contrast this with:\nwhich implies the intent and meaning of the source code, at least to those familiar with the context of the statement.\n\nThe exact rules of a naming convention depend on the context in which they are employed. Nevertheless, there are several common elements that influence most if not all naming conventions in common use today.\n\nFundamental elements of all naming conventions are the rules related to identifier length (i.e., the finite number of individual characters allowed in an identifier). Some rules dictate a fixed numerical bound, while others specify less precise heuristics or guidelines.\n\nIdentifier length rules are routinely contested in practice, and subject to much debate academically.\n\nSome considerations:\n\nIt is an open research issue whether some programmers prefer shorter identifiers because they are easier to type, or think up, than longer identifiers, or because in many situations a longer identifier simply clutters the visible code and provides no perceived additional benefit.\n\nBrevity in programming could be in part attributed to:\n\nSome naming conventions limit whether letters may appear in uppercase or lowercase. Other\nconventions do not restrict letter case, but attach a well-defined interpretation based\non letter case. Some naming conventions specify whether alphabetic, numeric, or alphanumeric\ncharacters may be used, and if so, in what sequence.\n\nA common recommendation is \"Use meaningful identifiers.\" A single word may not be as meaningful, or specific, as multiple words. Consequently, some naming conventions specify rules for the treatment of \"compound\" identifiers containing more than one word.\n\nAs most programming languages do not allow whitespace in identifiers, a method of delimiting each word is needed (to make it easier for subsequent readers to interpret which characters belong to which word). Historically some early languages, notably FORTRAN (1955) and ALGOL (1958), allowed spaces within identifiers, determining the end of identifiers by context. This was abandoned in later languages due to the difficulty of tokenization. It is possible to write names by simply concatenating words, and this is sometimes used, as in codice_1 for Java package names, though legibility suffers for longer terms, so usually some form of separation is used.\n\nOne approach is to delimit separate words with a nonalphanumeric character. The two characters commonly used for this purpose are the hyphen (\"-\") and the underscore (\"_\"); e.g., the two-word name \"codice_2\" would be represented as \"codice_3\" or \"codice_4\". The hyphen is used by nearly all programmers writing COBOL (1959), Forth (1970), and Lisp (1958); it is also common in Unix for commands and packages, and is used in CSS. This convention has no standard name, though it may be referred to as \"lisp-case\" or \"COBOL-CASE\" (compare \"Pascal case\"), \"kebab-case\", or other variants. Of these, \"kebab-case\", dating at least to 2012, has achieved some currency since.\n\nBy contrast, languages in the FORTRAN/ALGOL tradition, notably languages in the C and Pascal families, used the hyphen for the subtraction infix operator, and did not wish to require spaces around it (as free-form languages), preventing its use in identifiers. An alternative is to use underscores; this is common in the C family (including Python), with lowercase words, being found for example in \"The C Programming Language\" (1978), and has come to be known as snake case. Underscores with uppercase, as in UPPER_CASE, are commonly used for C preprocessor macros, hence known as MACRO_CASE, and for environment variables in Unix, such as BASH_VERSION in bash. Sometimes this is humorously referred to as SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE.\n\nAnother approach is to indicate word boundaries using medial capitalization, called \"CamelCase\", \"Pascal case\", and many other names, thus rendering \"codice_2\" as either \"codice_6\" or \"codice_7\". This convention is commonly used in Pascal, Java, C#, and Visual Basic. Treatment of acronyms in identifiers (e.g. the \"XML\" and \"HTTP\" in codice_8) varies. Some dictate that they be lowercased (e.g. codice_9) to ease typing and readability, whereas others leave them uppercased (e.g. codice_10) for accuracy.\n\nSome naming conventions represent rules or requirements that go beyond the requirements\nof a specific project or problem domain, and instead reflect a greater\noverarching set of principles defined by the software architecture, underlying programming language or other kind of cross-project methodology.\n\nPerhaps the most well-known is Hungarian notation, which encodes either the purpose (\"Apps Hungarian\") or the type (\"Systems Hungarian\") of a variable in its name. For example, the prefix \"sz\" for the variable szName indicates that the variable is a null-terminated string.\n\nA style used for very short (8 characters and less) could be: LCCIIL01, where LC would be the application (Letters of Credit), C for COBOL, IIL for the particular process subset, and the 01 a sequence number.\n\nThis sort of convention is still in active use in mainframes dependent upon JCL and is also seen in the 8.3 (maximum 8 characters with period separator followed by 3 character file type) MS-DOS style.\n\nIBM's \"OF Language\" was documented in an IMS (Information Management System) manual.\n\nIt detailed the PRIME-MODIFIER-CLASS word scheme, which consisted of names like \"CUST-ACT-NO\" to indicate \"customer account number\".\n\nPRIME words were meant to indicate major \"entities\" of interest to a system.\n\nMODIFIER words were used for additional refinement, qualification and readability.\n\nCLASS words ideally would be a very short list of data types relevant to a particular application. Common CLASS words might be: NO (number), ID (identifier), TXT (text), AMT (amount), QTY (quantity), FL (flag), CD (code), W (work) and so forth. In practice, the available CLASS words would be a list of less than two dozen terms.\n\nCLASS words, typically positioned on the right (suffix), served much the same purpose as Hungarian notation prefixes.\n\nThe purpose of CLASS words, in addition to consistency, was to specify to the programmer the data type of a particular data field. Prior to the acceptance of BOOLEAN (two values only) fields, FL (flag) would indicate a field with only two possible values.\n\nAdobe's Coding Conventions and Best Practices suggests naming standards for ActionScript that are mostly consistent with those of ECMAScript. The style of identifiers is similar to that of Java.\n\nIn Ada, the only recommended style of identifiers is codice_11.\n\nIn C and C++, keywords and standard library identifiers are mostly lowercase. In the C standard library, abbreviated names are the most common (e.g. codice_12 for a function testing whether a character is alphanumeric), while the C++ standard library often uses an underscore as a word separator (e.g. codice_13). Identifiers representing macros are, by convention, written using only uppercase letters and underscores (this is related to the convention in many programming languages of using all-upper-case identifiers for constants). Names containing double underscore or beginning with an underscore and a capital letter are reserved for implementation (compiler, standard library) and should not be used (e.g. codice_14 or codice_15). This is superficially similar to stropping, but the semantics differ: the underscores are part of the value of the identifier, rather than being quoting characters (as is stropping): the value of codice_16 is codice_16 (which is reserved), not codice_18 (but in a different namespace).\n\nIn Go, the convention is to use codice_19 or codice_20 rather than underscores to write multiword names.\n\nIn Java, naming conventions for identifiers have been established and suggested by various Java communities such as Sun Microsystems, Netscape, AmbySoft, etc. A sample of naming conventions set by Sun Microsystems are listed below,\nwhere a name in \"CamelCase\" is one composed of a number of words joined without spaces, with each word's initial letter in capitals — for example \"CamelCase\".\n\nJava compilers do not enforce these rules, but failing to follow them may result in confusion and erroneous code. For example, codice_21 and codice_22 imply significantly different behaviours: codice_21 implies an invocation to method codice_24 in an instance named codice_25, whereas codice_22 implies an invocation to static method codice_24 in class codice_28.\nOne widely used Java coding style dictates that UpperCamelCase be used for classes and lowerCamelCase be used for instances and methods.\nRecognising this usage, some IDEs, such as Eclipse, implement shortcuts based on CamelCase. For instance, in Eclipse's content assist feature, typing just the upper-case letters of a CamelCase word will suggest any matching class or method name (for example, typing \"NPE\" and activating content assist could suggest codice_29).\n\nInitialisms of three or more letters are CamelCase instead of uppercase (e.g., codice_30 instead of codice_31). One may also set the boundary at two or more letters (e.g. codice_32).\n\nThe built-in JavaScript libraries use the same naming conventions as Java. Data types and constructor functions use upper camel case (RegExp, TypeError, XMLHttpRequest, DOMObject) and methods use lower camel case (getElementById, getElementsByTagNameNS, createCDATASection). In order to be consistent most JavaScript developers follow these conventions.\nSee also: Douglas Crockford's conventions\n\nCommon practice in most Lisp dialects is to use dashes to separate words in identifiers, as in codice_33 and codice_34. Dynamic variable names conventionally start and end with asterisks: codice_35. Constants names are marked by plus signs: codice_36.\n\nMicrosoft .NET recommends UpperCamelCase for most identifiers. (lowerCamelCase is recommended for parameters and variables) and is a shared convention for the .NET languages. Microsoft further recommends that no type prefix hints (also known as Hungarian notation) are used. Instead of using Hungarian notation it is recommended to end the name with the base class' name; codice_37 instead of codice_38.\n\nObjective-C has a common coding style that has its roots in Smalltalk .\n\nTop-level entities, including classes, protocols, categories, as well as C constructs that are used in Objective-C programs like global variables and functions, are in UpperCamelCase with a short all-uppercase prefix denoting namespace, like NSString, UIAppDelegate, NSApp or CGRectMake. Constants may optionally be prefixed with a lowercase letter \"k\" like kCFBooleanTrue.\n\nInstance variables of an object use lowerCamelCase prefixed with an underscore, like _delegate and _tableView.\n\nMethod names use multiple lowerCamelCase parts separated by colons that delimit arguments, like: application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:, stringWithFormat: and isRunning.\n\nWirthian languages Pascal, Modula-2 and Oberon generally use codice_39 or codice_40 identifiers for programs, modules, constants, types and procedures, and codice_41 or codice_42 identifiers for math constants, variables, formal parameters and functions. While some dialects support underscore and dollar signs in identifiers, snake case and macro case is more likely confined to use within foreign API interfaces.\n\nPerl takes some cues from its C heritage for conventions. Locally scoped variables and subroutine names are lowercase with infix underscores. Subroutines and variables meant to be treated as private are prefixed with an underscore. Package variables are title cased. Declared constants are all caps. Package names are camel case excepting pragmata—e.g., codice_43 and codice_44—which are lowercase.\n\nPerl 6 follows more or less the same conventions as Perl, except that it allows an infix hyphen – or an apostrophe ' (or single quote) within an identifier (but not two in a row), provided that it is followed by an alphabetic character. Perl 6 programmers thus often use \"kebab case\" in their identifiers; for example, \ncodice_45 and codice_46 are valid identifiers.\nPHP recommendations are contained in PSR-1 (PHP Standard Recommendation 1) and PSR-2.\n\nPython and Ruby both recommend codice_40 for class names, codice_48 for constants, and codice_49 for other names.\n\nIn Python, if a name is intended to be \"private\", it is prefixed by an underscore. Private variables are only enforced by convention in Python. Names can also be suffixed with an underscore to prevent conflict with Python keywords. Prefixing with double underscores changes behaviour in classes with regard to name mangling. Prefixing \"and\" suffixing with double underscores are reserved for \"magic names\" which fulfill special behaviour in Python objects.\n\nRust recommends codice_40 for type aliases and struct, trait, enum, and enum variant names, codice_48 for constants or statics, and codice_49 for other names.\n\nSwift has shifted its naming conventions with each individual release. However a major update with Swift 3.0 stabilised the naming conventions for codice_42 across variables and function declarations. Constants are usually defined by enum types or constant parameters that are also written this way. Class and other object type declarations are codice_40.\n\nAs of Swift 3.0 there have been made clear naming guidelines for the language in an effort to standardise the API naming and declaration conventions across all third party APIs. \n\n"}
{"id": "50124696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50124696", "title": "Nordic Science Centre Association", "text": "Nordic Science Centre Association\n\nThe Nordic Science Centre Association (also known as NSCF, abbreviated from the Swedish name \"Nordisk Science Center Forbund\") was established in a meeting in Finland in October 1987. The first chairman of NSCF was Per-Edvin Persson, long-time director of Finnish science centre Heureka. Starting from 2017, the chairman is Hanne Haack Larsen from Experimentarium in Denmark.\n\nNSCF helps to establish the contact between the science centres (i.e. exhibition and activity centres whose goal is the popularisation of science and who aim to teach through interactive exhibits and demonstrations) in Scandinavian and Baltic Countries.\n\nThe aim of the association is to encourage the cooperation and the exchange of ideas between its member institutions. Contact and cooperation are facilitated by the annual meetings and the newsletter that is issued five times a year. Several members have also cooperated more closely by exchanging exhibits and exhibitions and participating in pan-European projects. The NSCF Scholarship also allows the science centre staff to travel to other member organizations (for training purposes).\n\nNSCF is an associate member of ECSITE, the European Network of Science Centres and Museums.\n\nThe association is led by a governing board that is re-elected in every two years. From 2015 to 2017, it consists of the following members:\n\n\nIn order to become a member of NSCF, an organisation must comply with the charters of NSCF, submit a written application to the board and pay the membership fee. After that, membership has to be confirmed by voting at the next General Council (the annual meeting).\n\nCurrently, NSCF has members from Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Iceland, Estonia and Latvia. The full list of members is updated four times a year and can be found here.\n\nAt the board meeting in February 2016, the NSCF governing board decided to create the status of honorary membership and nominate the first two honorary members for their active participation and long-standing support for the collaboration between Nordic and Baltic states. The honorary members of NSCF are Per Edwin Persson, the first chairman of NSCF and a winner of the NSCF award, and Asger Høeg, who has been a member of the NSCF governing board for many years.\n"}
{"id": "22036467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22036467", "title": "Obscenity", "text": "Obscenity\n\nAn obscenity is any utterance or act that strongly offends the prevalent morality of the time. It is derived from the Latin \"obscaena\" (offstage) a cognate of the Ancient Greek root \"skene\", because some potentially offensive content, such as murder or sex, was depicted offstage in classical drama. The word can be used to indicate a strong moral repugnance, in expressions such as \"obscene profits\" or \"the obscenity of war\". As a legal term, it usually refers to graphic depictions of people engaged in sexual and excretory activity.\n\nIn the United States of America, issues of obscenity raise issues of limitations on the freedom of speech and of the press, which are otherwise protected by the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.\n\nFederal obscenity law in the U.S. is unusual in that there is no uniform national standard. Former Justice Potter Stewart of the Supreme Court of the United States, in attempting to classify what material constituted exactly \"what is obscene,\" famously wrote, \"I shall not today attempt further to define the kinds of material I understand to be embraced ... [b]ut I know it when I see it...\" In the United States, the 1973 ruling of the Supreme Court of the United States in \"Miller v. California\" established a three-tiered test to determine what was obscene—and thus not protected, versus what was merely erotic and thus protected by the First Amendment.\n\nDelivering the opinion of the court, Chief Justice Warren Burger wrote:\n\nWhile most recent (2016) obscenity cases in the United States have revolved around images and films, the first obscenity cases dealt with textual works.\n\nThe classification of \"obscene\" and thus illegal for production and distribution has been judged on printed text-only stories starting with \"Dunlop v. U.S., 165 U.S. 486 (1897)\", which upheld a conviction for mailing and delivery of a newspaper called the 'Chicago Dispatch,' containing \"obscene, lewd, lascivious, and indecent materials\", which was later upheld in several cases. One of these was \"A Book Named \"John Cleland's Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure\"\" v. Attorney General of Com. of Massachusetts, \"383 U.S. 413 (1966)\" wherein the book \"Fanny Hill\", written by John Cleland c. 1760, was judged to be obscene in a proceeding that put the book itself on trial rather than its publisher. Another was \"Kaplan v. California, 413 U.S. 115 (1973)\" whereby the court most famously determined that \"Obscene material in book form is not entitled to any First Amendment protection merely because it has no pictorial content.\"\n\nIn 2005, the U.S. Department of Justice formed the Obscenity Prosecution Task Force in a push to prosecute obscenity cases. Red Rose Stories, a site dedicated to text-only fantasy stories, became one of many sites targeted by the FBI for shutdown. The government alleged that Red Rose Stories contained depictions of child rape. The publisher pleaded guilty. Extreme pornographer Max Hardcore served 30 months of a 46-month prison sentence for obscenity.\n\nMany U.S. states have had bans on the sale of sex toys, regulating them as obscene devices. Some states have seen their sex toy bans ruled unconstitutional in the courts. That ruling leaves only Mississippi, Alabama, and Virginia with current bans on the sale of obscene devices.\n\nLiterature (non-fiction) communicating contraceptive information was prohibited by several states. The last such prohibition, in Connecticut, was overturned judicially in 1965.\n\n\nStandards superseded by the Miller Test include:\n\nFCC rules and federal law govern obscenity in broadcast media. Many historically important works have been described as obscene or prosecuted under obscenity laws, including the works of Charles Baudelaire, Lenny Bruce, William S. Burroughs, Allen Ginsberg, James Joyce, D. H. Lawrence, Henry Miller, Samuel Beckett, and the Marquis de Sade.\n\nObscenity law has been criticized in the following areas:\n\n\nObscenity laws remain enforceable under Miller despite these criticisms. Some states have passed laws mandating censorship in schools, universities, and libraries even if they are not receiving government aid that would require censorship in these institutions. These include Arizona, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, South Carolina, and Tennessee. Twenty more states were considering such legislation in 2001–2002.\n\nChild pornography refers to images or films (also known as child abuse images); as such, visual child pornography is a record of child sexual abuse. Abuse of the child occurs during the sexual acts that are recorded in the production of child pornography, and several professors of psychology state that memories of the abuse are maintained as long as visual records exist, are accessed, and are \"exploited perversely.\" Some countries also bans writings—that depict sexually explicit activities involving a child.\n\nIn \"New York v. Ferber\", , the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that child pornography need not be legally obscene in order to be outlawed. The Court ruled that in contrast to the types of images considered in \"Miller\", images that depicted underlying harm to children need not appeal to \"the prurient interest of the average person,\" portray sexual conduct in \"a patently offensive manner,\" nor be considered holistically, in order to be proscribed. Another difference between U.S. constitutional law concerning obscenity and that governing child pornography is that the Supreme Court ruled in \"Stanley v. Georgia\", , that possession of obscene material could not be criminalized, while in \"Osborne v. Ohio\", , the high court ruled that possession of child pornography could be criminalized. The reason was that the motive for criminalizing child pornography possession was \"to destroy a market for the exploitative use of children\" rather than to prevent the material from poisoning the minds of its viewers. The three dissenting justices in that case argued, \"While the sexual exploitation of children is undoubtedly a serious problem, Ohio may employ other weapons to combat it.\"\n\nThis is most notably shown with the \"X\" rating under which some films are categorized. The most notable films given an \"X\" rating were \"Deep Throat\" (1972) and \"The Devil in Miss Jones\" (1973). These films show explicit, non-simulated, penetrative sex that was presented as part of a reasonable plot with respectable production values. Some state authorities issued injunctions against such films to protect \"local community standards\"; in New York, the print of \"Deep Throat\" was seized mid-run, and the film's exhibitors were found guilty of promoting obscenity. According to the documentary \"This Film Is Not Yet Rated\", films that include gay sex (even if implied) or female pleasure have been more harshly censored than their heterosexual, male counterparts. The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) issues ratings for motion pictures exhibited and distributed commercially to the public in the United States; the ratings are issued through the Classification and Rating Administration (CARA). The intent of the rating system is to provide information about the content of motion pictures so parents can determine whether an individual motion picture is suitable for viewing by their children.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Obscene Publications Acts sets the criteria for what material is allowed to be publicly accessed and distributed.\n\nStanley Kauffmann's novel \"The Philanderer\" was published by Penguin Books in 1957 and was unsuccessfully prosecuted for obscenity.\n\nSex crime has generated particular concern. In 1976 the BBFC claimed that, in that year, it had viewed 58 films depicting \"explicit rape\", declaring scenes that glorified it as \"obscene\". As opposed to questions of \"indecency\", which have been applied to sexual explicitness, films charged with being obscene have been viewed as having \"a tendency to deprave and corrupt\" and been liable to prosecution.\n\nIn 2008, the UK prosecuted a man for writing a fictional sex story (R v Walker). In 2009, the crown prosecution service (CPS) dropped the case.\n\nObscenity law in England and Wales is currently governed by the Obscene Publications Act, but obscenity law goes back much further into the English common law. The conviction in 1727 of Edmund Curll for the publication of \"Venus in the Cloister or the Nun in her Smock\" under the common law offence of disturbing the peace appears to be the first conviction for obscenity in the United Kingdom, and set a legal precedent for other convictions. These common law ideas of obscenity formed the original basis of obscenity law in other common law countries, such as the United States.\n\nFor visual works of art the main obscenity law in England and Wales was, until the 1960s, the Vagrancy Act 1838 which was successfully used in prosecutions against D.H. Lawrence for an exhibition of his paintings at the Warren Gallery, London, in 1929, and in 1966 against the British artist Stass Paraskos for an exhibition of his paintings held that year in the northern English city of Leeds. Parts of the Act were repealed shortly after the Paraskos trial and it has rarely been used since in relation to visual art.\n\nThe Obscene Publications act is notoriously vague, defining obscenity as material likely to \"deprave and corrupt\". The 1959 act was passed just as most Western countries were about to enter a new phase of sexual freedom. The trial of Penguin Books over Lady Chatterley's Lover in 1960 failed to secure a conviction and the conviction in the 1971 trial of Oz magazine was overturned on appeal. An attempt to prosecute the University of Central England in 1997 over a copy of a library book by Robert Mapplethorpe was abandoned amidst derision from academics and the media.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s most Western countries legalised hardcore pornography. By the 1980s the UK was almost the only liberal democracy where the sale of hardcore pornography was still completely illegal, although ownership was not a criminal offence (except child pornography). Home videotape was a booming market and it was relatively simple for individuals to smuggle hardcore material in from Europe or the United States, where it had been purchased legally, either for personal use or to copy it for distribution. This resulted in a considerable black market of poor quality videotapes. Meanwhile, people attempting to buy pornography legally would often be stuck with heavily censored R18 certificate material.\n\nWhile the authorities did their best to stay on top of illegal pornography they found that juries, while not particularly liking the material, were reluctant to convict defendants where the material was intended for private use among consenting adults. During the 1990s the advent of the internet made it easier than ever before for British citizens to access hardcore material. Finally, in 2000, following the dismissal of a test case brought by the BBFC, hardcore pornography was effectively legalised, subject to certain conditions and licensing restrictions. It is still an offence to sell obscene material by mail order.\n\nAfter 1984 videotape sellers were more likely to be prosecuted under the Video Recordings Act rather than the OPA. The VRA requires that all videos must have a certificate from the BBFC. If the BBFC refuses a certificate a video is effectively banned for home viewing, but not necessarily in the cinema. Four films that were originally refused a certificate, The Exorcist, Straw Dogs, The Evil Dead and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre were granted a certificate in the late 1990s and have subsequently been screened on mainstream television.\n\nIn New Zealand, screening of \"Deep Throat\" (1972) was only cleared in 1986. However, the film has not been screened because the only cinema that has tried to organize a screening was thwarted by the city council that owned the building's lease.\n\nSection 163 of the Canadian Criminal Code provides the country's legal definition of \"obscenity\". Officially termed as\n\"Offences Tending to Corrupt Morals\", the Canadian prohibited class of articles that are to be legally included as \"obscene things\" is very broad, including text-only written material, pictures, models (including statues), records or \"any other thing whatsoever\"—that according to Section 163(8)—has \"a dominant characteristic of the publication is the undue exploitation of sex, or the combination of sex and at least one of crime, horror, cruelty or violence\" is deemed to be \"obscene\" under the current law. \n\nThe current law states\n\n163. (1) Every one commits an offense who\n\n\"Crime comics\" are stated to be books that glorify criminal activities and have at least one depiction of such criminal actions of the book's text.\n\nThe Canada Border Services Agency seizes items it labels obscene.\n\nIn 1993, Canadian police arrested the 19-year-old writer of a fictional sex story \"The Forestwood Kids\" however the case was dismissed in 1995.\n\nIn February 2009, citing its \"Policy On The Classification Of Obscene Material\", the CBSA banned two Lucas Entertainment films because they show the \"ingestion of someone else's urine... with a sexual purpose\".\n\nEver since 1940, in the Title VI of the Penal Code, naming crimes against sexual dignity (until 2009 crimes against social conventions), the fourth chapter is dedicated to a crime named \"public outrage related to modesty\" (, ).\n\nIt is composed of two articles, Art. 233 \"Obscene Act\", \"to practice an obscene act in a public place, or open or exposed to the public\", punished with arrest of 3 months to 1 year or a fine; and Art. 234 \"Obscene Written Piece or Object\", to do, import, export, purchase or have in one's property, to ends of trade, distribution or public display, any written, drew, painted, stamped or object piece of obscenity, punished with arrest of 6 months to 1 years or a fine.\n\nCriticism to the legislation have included:\n\nIt is often used against people who expose their nude bodies in public environments that were not warranted a license to cater to the demographic interested in such practice (the first such place was the Praia do Abricó in Rio de Janeiro, in 1994), even if no sexual action took place, and it may include for example a double standard for the chest area of women and men in which only women are penalized. Such a thing took place in FEMEN protests in São Paulo, in 2012.\n\nIn 2017 the Supreme Court in South Korea ruled that an image of unclothed male genitalia is obscene if not contextualized in a cultural, artistic, medical or educational setting.\n\nVarious countries have different standings on the types of materials that they as legal bodies permit their citizens to have access to and disseminate among their local populations. The set of these countries' permissible content vary widely accordingly with some having extreme punishment up to and including execution for members who violate their restrictions, as in the case of Iran where the current laws against pornography now include death sentences for those convicted of producing pornography.\n\nIn India the Obscenity law is the same as had been framed by the British Government. Charges of obscenity have been levelled against various writers and poets till date; the law has not yet been revised. The famous trials relate to the Hungryalists who were arrested and prosecuted in the 1960s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13120635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13120635", "title": "Oghur languages", "text": "Oghur languages\n\nThe Oghur or Oğuric languages (also known as Bulgar, Pre-Proto Bulgaric, or Lir-Turkic and r-Turkic) are a branch of the Turkic language family. The only extant member of the group is the Chuvash language. Languages from this family were spoken in some nomadic tribal confederations, such as those of the Onogurs, Bulgars, and Khazars. Some scholars consider Hunnic a similar language and refer to this extended grouping as Hunno-Bulgarian.\n\nThe Oghuric languages are a distinct group of the Turkic languages, standing in contrast to Common Turkic. Today they are represented only by Chuvash. Extinct Oghuric languages include Bulgar and Khazar. There is no consensus among linguists on the relation between Oghuric and Common Turkic, and several questions remain unsolved:\n\nThe Oghuric languages are also known as \"-r Turkic\" because the final consonant in certain words is \"r\", not \"z\" as in Common Turkic. - - - . Hence the name \"Oghur\" corresponds \"Oghuz\" in Common Turkic. Other correspondences are Com. \"š\" : Oghur \"l\" (\"tâš\" : \"tâl\", 'stone'); \"s\" > \"š\"; \"*č\" > \"ś\"; \"k/q\" > \"ğ\"; \"y\" > \"j, ś\"; \"d, δ\" > \"δ\" > \"z\" (10th cent.) > \"r\" (13th cent.)\"; \"ğd\" > \"z\" > \"r\" (14th cent.); \"a\" > \"ı\" (after 9th cent.).\n\nDenis Sinor believes that the difference means that those tribes could not have come from lands like Mongolia, which uses a \"-z\" language. However, there many loanwords in Mongolic from Oghuric, like Mong. \"ikere\", Oghur. \"*ikir\", Hung. \"iker\", Comm. \"ikiz\" (twins). It is believed that they lived in the Mongolian borderlands before the 5th century.\n\nThe Oghuric tribes are often connected with the Hungarians whose ethnonym is usually derived from Onoghurs (> (H)ungars). The Hungarians were mixed Finno-Ugric and Turkic, with strong Oghuric-Bulgar and Khazar influences. Hungarian has many borrowings from Turkic and Oghuric languages: Hung. \"tenger\", Oghur. \"*tengir\", Comm. \"tengiz\" (sea), Hung. \"gyűrű\", Oghur. \"jürük\", Comm. \"yüzük\" (ring), and terms of equestrian culture \"ló\" (horse), \"nyereg\" (saddle), \"fék\" (bridle), \"ostor\" (whip). A number of Hungarian loanwords were borrowed before the 9th century, shown by \"sz-\" (< Oğ. \"ś-\") rather than Comm. \"gy-\" (< Oğ. \"ǰ-\"): example Hung. \"szél\", Oghur. \"*śäl\", Chuv. \"śil\", Comm. \"yel\" (wind), Hung. \"szűcs\" (tailor), Hung. \"szőlő\" (grapes).\n\n"}
{"id": "52847635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52847635", "title": "Perdix (drone)", "text": "Perdix (drone)\n\nPerdix drones are the main subject of an experimental project conducted by the Strategic Capabilities Office of the United States Department of Defense which aims to develop autonomous micro-drones to be used for unmanned aerial surveillance.\n\nThe idea of intelligent micro-drones which could communicate with each other was pioneered by a group of students studying at the Aeronautics and Astronautics Department of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2011. They were subsequently modified for military use in 2013 under the direction of the United States Department of Defense Strategic Capabilities Office.\n\nThe drone system was named after the character in Greek mythology of the same name.\n\nEach individual drone is not controlled in itself but instead it shares a collective, distributed \"brain,\" travelling in leaderless \"swarms,\" members of which can adapt to changes in drone numbers and remain co-ordinated with their counterparts. Having multiple micro-drones carrying out surveillance is tactically advantageous to simply having one large drone because it is easier for the micro-drones to dodge air defense systems. The drones have the ability to collectively determine whether they have completed a mission, leading some commentators to argue that Perdix drones are artificially intelligent.\n\nThe first operational test of the militarized Perdix drones was conducted by the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School in September 2014 over Edwards Air Force Base. The drones were placed in the flare canisters of F-16 Fighting Falcon and deployed to operate at a lower altitude. A year later, in September 2015, 90 Perdix missions were flown over Alaska to test maritime surveillance capabilities.\n\nIn October 2016, 103 Perdix drones were dropped from three F/A-18 Super Hornet fighter jets in a joint effort with the US Naval Air Systems Command over their base at China Lake, California. As with earlier tests, the drones were packed into flare canisters for the jets to eject. The test was a success and elicited significant media coverage when announced on 9 January 2017.\n\nThese tests conclude that the drones can be safely launched at a speed of Mach 0.6 and in temperatures as low as .\n\nPhotographers shooting a feature of the drones for CBS television program 60 Minutes reportedly almost abandoned attempts to film the drones as their size and speed made getting a focussed image difficult.\n\nPerdix drones have two sets of wings which are straddled by a plastic body containing a lithium battery and a small camera. Propulsion is provided by a propeller at the rear. 3D printing is used to create Perdix drones' bodies while the onboard software can be updated to enable refinements and improvements to be made without having to manufacture a new drone. The Perdix software is currently in its sixth generation and the Department of Defense aims to have the capability to produce the drones in batches of 1,000 in the near future.\n\nThe published specifications of Perdix drones are listed below.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17640957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17640957", "title": "Processability theory", "text": "Processability theory\n\nProcessability theory is a theory and a model of second language acquisition developed by Manfred Pienemann that touches the linguistic structures that surface in the learning of a second language. The theory has been used as a framework by several scientists from Europe and Australia.\n\nProcessability theory is part of the cognitive approach to second language acquisition that attempts to increase understanding of the ways L2 learners restructure their interlanguage knowledge systems to be in greater conformity to L2 structures. Processability theory states that learners restructure their L2 knowledge systems in an order of which they are capable at their stage of development. For instance, in order to acquire the correct morphological and syntactic forms for English questions, learners must transform declarative English sentences. They do so by a series of stages, consistent across learners. Clahsen proposed that certain processing principles determine this order of restructuring. Specifically, he stated that learners first, maintain declarative word order while changing other aspects of the utterances, second, move words to the beginning and end of sentences, and third, move elements within main clauses before subordinate clauses.\n\nProcessability Theory is now a mature theory of grammatical development of learners' interlanguage. It is cognitively founded (hence applicable to any language), formal and explicit (hence empirically testable), and extended, having not only formulated and tested hypotheses about morphology, syntax and discourse-pragmatics, but having also paved the way for further developments at the interface between grammar and the lexicon and other important modules in SLA.\n\nAmong the most important SLA theories recently discussed in Van Patten (2007), no other can accommodate such a variety of phenomena or seems able to offer the basis for so many new directions. Ten years have gone by since Pienemann’s first book-length publication on PT in 1998; and before that, it took almost two decades to mould into PT the initial intuition by the ZISA team that the staged development of German word order could be explained by psycholinguistic constraints universally applicable to all languages (Pienemann 1981; Clahsen, Meisel & Pienemann 1983). In these three decades, the whole field of SLA has grown exponentially. PT has paralleled this growth, and widened its scope in several directions. First, ZISA’s intuitions have been applied to English (Pienemann & Johnston 1984; Pienemann, Johnston & Brindley 1988, Pienemann 1989), then PT has expanded its typological validation from German and English to different languages, such as Swedish and other Scandinavian languages (Håkansson 1997, Glahn et al. 2001), Arabic (e.g., Mansouri 1995; 2005), Italian (e.g. Di Biase & Kawaguchi 2002; Di Biase 2007; Bettoni, Di Biase & Nuzzo 2009), French (Ågren 2009), Chinese (e.g. Zhang 2004, 2005), and Japanese (e.g. Di Biase & Kawaguchi 2002, 2005).\n\nSecondly, PT’s framework has been substantially widened by including Bresnan’s (2001) Lexical Mapping Theory, and thus adding a discourse pragmatically motivated syntactic component (Pienemann, Di Biase & Kawaguchi 2005) to its first syntactically motivated morphological module. Thirdly, developmentally-moderated transfer from L1 (e.g., Pienemann, Di Biase, Kawaguchi & Håkansson 2005a; Pienemann, Di Biase, Kawaguchi & Håkansson 2005b). Fourthly, PT’s plausibility has been tested in language situations other than L2 ones, such as monolingual and bilingual language acquisition (e.g., Håkansson 2001, 2005; ItaniAdams 2006), among children with Specific Language Impairment (e.g., Håkansson 2001; 2005), and in the origins of creole languages (Plag 2008a, 2008b).\n\nFinally, the range of the original applications of PT to language testing and language teaching has also expanded over the years, involving several new ways of testing and teaching situations (e.g., Iwasaki 2004, 2008, ask Bruno; Pienemann & Keßler 2007), and new languages (e.g. Di Biase 2008; Yamaguchi 2009). Ensuing publications in all these PT strands during such a long period of growth have had their own agendas and purposes. Furthermore, not only PT itself but also its feeder disciplines have developed in new directions, crucially among them psycholinguistics for language production and theoretical linguistics for language knowlwedge. As a consequence, it is not surprising that readers unfamiliar with PT's history may at times be confused by differences in the presentation of the theory, its use of terminology, and reliance on its theoretical bases.\n"}
{"id": "87334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87334", "title": "Prophecy", "text": "Prophecy\n\nA prophecy is a message that is claimed by a prophet to have been communicated to them by a god. Such messages typically involve inspiration, interpretation, or revelation of divine will concerning the prophet's social world and events to come (compare divine knowledge). All known ancient cultures had prophets who delivered prophecies.\n\nThe English noun \"prophecy\", in the sense of \"function of a prophet\" appeared from about 1225, from Old French \"profecie\" (12th century), and from \"prophetia\", Greek \"propheteia\" \"gift of interpreting the will of God\", from Greek \"prophetes\" (see prophet). The related meaning, \"thing spoken or written by a prophet\", dates from 1300, while the verb \"to prophesy\" is recorded by 1377.\n\n\nModern (Western esoteric) research in prophecy is a pseudoscience. In general, a diviner's foretelling or a prophetic prediction of the future does not adhere to the scientific method, therefore it is no object of science.\n\nFrom a skeptical point of view, a Latin maxim exists: \"prophecy written after the fact\" (\"vaticinium ex eventu\").\nThe Jewish Torah already deals with the topic of the false prophet (Deuteronomy 13:2-6, 18:20-22).\n\nIn 1863, Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, claimed to have been the promised messianic figure of all previous religions, and a Manifestation of God, a type of prophet in the Bahá'í writings that serves as intermediary between the divine and humanity and who speaks with the voice of a god. Bahá'u'lláh claimed that, while being imprisoned in the Siyah-Chal in Iran, he underwent a series of mystical experiences including having a vision of the \"Maid of Heaven\" who told him of his divine mission, and the promise of divine assistance; In Bahá'í belief, the \"Maid of Heaven\" is a representation of the divine.\n\nThe \"Haedong Kosung-jon\" (Biographies of High Monks) records that King Beopheung of Silla had desired to promulgate Buddhism as the state religion. However, officials in his court opposed him. In the fourteenth year of his reign, Beopheung's \"Grand Secretary\", Ichadon, devised a strategy to overcome court opposition. Ichadon schemed with the king, convincing him to make a proclamation granting Buddhism official state sanction using the royal seal. Ichadon told the king to deny having made such a proclamation when the opposing officials received it and demanded an explanation. Instead, Ichadon would confess and accept the punishment of execution, for what would quickly be seen as a forgery. Ichadon prophesied to the king that at his execution a wonderful miracle would convince the opposing court faction of Buddhism's power. Ichadon's scheme went as planned, and the opposing officials took the bait. When Ichadon was executed on the 15th day of the 9th month in 527, his prophecy was fulfilled; the earth shook, the sun was darkened, beautiful flowers rained from the sky, his severed head flew to the sacred Geumgang mountains, and milk instead of blood sprayed 100 feet in the air from his beheaded corpse. The omen was accepted by the opposing court officials as a manifestation of heaven's approval, and Buddhism was made the state religion in 527.\n\nIn ancient Chinese, prophetic texts are known as Chen (谶). The most famous Chinese prophecy is the Tui bei tu (推背圖).\n\nThe New Testament refers to prophecy as one of the spiritual gifts given by the indwelling Holy Spirit. From this, many Christians believe that the gift of prophecy is the supernatural ability to receive and convey a message from their God. The purpose of the message may be to \"edify, exhort and comfort\" the members of the Church. In this context, not all prophecies contain predictions about the future. The Apostle Paul teaches in First Corinthians that prophecy is for the benefit of the whole Church and not just of the individual exercising the gift.\n\nAccording to Walter Brueggemann, the task of prophetic (Christian) ministry is to nurture, nourish and evoke a consciousness and perception alternative to the consciousness and perception of the dominant culture. A recognized form of Christian prophecy is the \"prophetic drama\" which Frederick Dillistone describes as a \"metaphorical conjunction between present situations and future events\".\n\nIn his \"Dialogue with Trypho\", Justin Martyr argued that prophets were no longer among Israel but were in the Church. \"The Shepherd of Hermas\", written around the mid-2nd century, describes the way prophecy was being used within the church of that time. Irenaeus confirms the existence of such spiritual gifts in his \"Against Heresies\". Although some modern commentators claim that Montanus was rejected because he claimed to be a prophet, a careful examination of history shows that the gift of prophecy was still acknowledged during the time of Montanus, and that he was controversial because of the manner in which he prophesied and the doctrines he propagated.\n\nProphecy and other spiritual gifts were somewhat rarely acknowledged throughout church history and there are few examples of the prophetic and certain other gifts until the Scottish Covenanters like Prophet Peden and John Wishart. From 1904 to 1906, the Azusa Street Revival occurred in Los Angeles, California and is sometimes considered the birthplace of Pentecostalism. This revival is well known for the \"speaking in tongues\" that occurred there. Some participants of the Azusa Street Revival are claimed to have prophesied. Pentecostals believe prophecy and certain other gifts are once again being given to Christians. The Charismatic Movement also accepts spiritual gifts like speaking in tongues and prophecy.\n\nSince 1972, the neo-Pentecostal Church of God Ministry of Jesus Christ International has expressed a belief in prophecy. The church claims this gift is manifested by one person (the prophesier) laying their hands on another person, who receives an individual message said by the prophesier. Prophesiers are believed to be used by the Holy Ghost as instruments through whom their God expresses his promises, advice and commandments. The church claims people receive messages about their future, in the form of promises given by their God and expected to be fulfilled by divine action.\n\nIn 1994, the Apostolic-Prophetic Movement came on the scene, largely due to the influence of the Toronto, Brownsville and Kansas City revivals. Along with the Charismatic Movement's speaking in tongues and prophecy, the Prophetic Movement distinguished itself from past movements with physical twitching, moaning, sightings of gold dust, \"glory clouds\" and gems that (allegedly) fell from heaven.\n\nThe Latter Day Saint movement maintains that its first prophet, Joseph Smith, was visited by God and Jesus Christ in 1820. The Latter Day Saints further claims that God communicated directly with Joseph Smith on many subsequent occasions, and that following the death of Joseph Smith God has continued to speak through subsequent prophets. Joseph Smith claims to have been led by an angel to a large hill in upstate New York, where he was shown an ancient manuscript engraved on plates of gold metal. Joseph Smith claimed to have translated this manuscript into modern English under divine inspiration by the gift and power of God, and the publication of this translation are known as the Book of Mormon.\n\nFollowing Smith's murder, there was a succession crisis that resulted in a great schism. The majority of Latter-day Saints believing Brigham Young to be the next prophet and following him out to Utah, while a minority returned to Missouri with Emma Smith, believing Joseph Smith Junior's son, Joseph Smith III, to be the next legitimate prophet (forming the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, now the Community of Christ). Since even before the death of Joseph Smith in 1844, there have been numerous separatist Latter Day Saint sects that have splintered from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. To this day, there are an unknown number of organizations within the Latter Day Saint Movement, each with their own proposed prophet.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is the largest Latter Day Saint body. The current Prophet/President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is Russell M. Nelson. The church has, since Joseph Smith's death on June 27, 1844, held a belief that the president of their church is also a literal prophet of God, and the only true prophet on the earth. The church also maintains that further revelations claimed to have been given through Joseph Smith are published in the Doctrine and Covenants, one of the Standard Works. Additional revelations and prophecies outside the Standard Works, such as Joseph Smith's \"White Horse Prophecy\", concerning a great and final war in the United States before the Second Coming of Jesus Christ, can be found in other church published works.\n\nMuslims believe that the Quran predicted many events years before they happened and that such prophecies are proof of the divine origin of the Qur'an. The Qur'an itself states \"For every prophecy is a term, and you will come to know (it).\" Muslims also recognize the validity of some prophecies in other sacred texts like in the Bible; however, they believe that, unlike the Qur'an, some parts of the Bible have been corrupted over the years, and as a result, not all of the prophecies and verses in the Bible are accurate.\n\nThe Hebrew term for prophet, \"Navi\", literally means \"spokesperson\"; he speaks to the people as a mouthpiece of their God, and to their god on behalf of the people. \"The name \"prophet,\" from the Greek meaning \"forespeaker\" (πρὸ being used in the original local sense), is an equivalent of the Hebrew נבוא, which signifies properly a delegate or mouthpiece of another.\" A major theme of the Nevi'im is social justice.\n\nAccording to Judaism, authentic \"Nevuah\" (Heb.: נבואה, \"Prophecy\") got withdrawn from the world after the destruction of the first Jerusalem Temple. Malachi is acknowledged to have been the last authentic prophet if one accepts the opinion that Nechemyah died in Babylon before 9th Tevet 3448 (313 BCE).\n\nThe Torah contains laws concerning the \"false prophet\" (Deuteronomy 13:2-6, 18:20-22). Prophets in Christianity like Jesus, or prophets in Islam like Lot, for example, are false prophets according to Jewish standards.\n\nIn the Torah, prophecy often consisted of a conditioned warning by their God of the consequences should the society, specific communities, or their leaders not adhere to Torah's instructions in the time contemporary with the prophet's life. Prophecies sometimes included conditioned promises of blessing for obeying their god, and returning to behaviors and laws as written in the Torah. Conditioned warning prophecies feature in all Jewish works of the Tanakh.\nNotably Maimonides, philosophically suggested there once were many levels of prophecy, from the highest such as those experienced by Moses, to the lowest where the individuals were able to apprehend the Divine Will, but not respond or even describe this experience to others, citing in example, Shem, Eber and most notably, Noah, who, in biblical narrative, does not issue prophetic declarations.\n\nMaimonides, in his philosophical work \"The Guide for the Perplexed\", outlines twelve modes of prophecy from lesser to greater degree of clarity:\n\n\nThe Tanakh contains prophecies from various Hebrew prophets (55 in total) who communicated messages from God to the nation of Israel, and later the population of Judea and elsewhere. Experience of prophecy in the Torah and the rest of Tanakh was not restricted to Jews. Nor was the prophetic experience restricted to the Hebrew language.\n\nThere exists a problem in verifying most Native American prophecy, in that they remain primarily an oral tradition, and thus there is no way to cite references of where writings have been committed to paper. In their system, the best reference is an Elder, who acts as a repository of the accumulated wisdom of their tradition.\n\nIn another type of example, it is recorded that there are three Dogrib prophets who had claimed to have been divinely inspired to bring the message of Christianity's God to their people. This prophecy among the Dogrib involves elements such as dances and trance-like states.\n\nEsoteric prophecy has been claimed for, but not by, Michel de Nostredame, popularly referred to as Nostradamus, who claimed to be a converted Christian. It is known that he suffered several tragedies in his life, and was persecuted to some degree for his cryptic esoteric writings about the future, reportedly derived through a use of a crystal ball. Nostradamus was a French apothecary and reputed seer who published collections of foreknowledge of future events. He is best known for his book \"Les Propheties\" (\"The Prophecies\"), the first edition of which appeared in 1555. Since its publication, Nostradamus has attracted an esoteric following that, along with the popularistic press, credits him with foreseeing world events. His esoteric cryptic foreseeings have in some cases been assimilated to the results of applying the alleged Bible code, as well as to other purported pseudo-prophetic works.\n\nMost reliable academic sources maintain that the associations made between world events and Nostradamus's quatrains are largely the result of misinterpretations or mistranslations (sometimes deliberate) or else are so tenuous as to render them useless as evidence of any genuine predictive power. Moreover, none of the sources listed offers any evidence that anyone has ever interpreted any of Nostradamus's pseudo-prophetic works specifically enough to allow a clear identification of any event in advance.\n\nAccording to skeptics, many apparently fulfilled prophecies can be explained as coincidences (possibly aided by the prophecy's own vagueness), or that some prophecies were actually invented after the fact to match the circumstances of a past event (\"postdiction\").\n\nBill Whitcomb in \"The Magician's Companion\" observes, One point to remember is that the probability of an event changes as soon as a prophecy (or divination) exists. . . . The accuracy or outcome of any prophecy is altered by the desires and attachments of the seer and those who hear the prophecy.\n\nMany prophets make a large number of prophecies. This makes the chances of at least one prophecy being correct much higher by sheer weight of numbers.\n\nThe phenomenon of prophecy is not well understood in psychology research literature. Psychiatrist and neurologist Arthur Deikman describes the phenomenon as an \"intuitive knowing, a type of perception that bypasses the usual sensory channels and rational intellect.\"\n\n\"(P)rophecy can be likened to a bridge between the individual 'mystical self' and the communal 'mystical body',\" writes religious sociologist Margaret Poloma. Prophecy seems to involve \"the free association that occurred through the workings of the right brain.\"\n\nPsychologist Julian Jaynes proposed that this is a temporary accessing of the bicameral mind; that is, a temporary separating of functions, such that the authoritarian part of the mind seems to literally be speaking to the person as if a separate (and external) voice. Jaynes posits that the gods heard as voices in the head were and are organizations of the central nervous system. God speaking through man, according to Jaynes, is a more recent vestige of God speaking to man; the product of a more integrated higher self. When the bicameral mind speaks, there is no introspection. We simply experience the Lord telling us what to do. In earlier times, posits Jaynes, there was additionally a visual component, now lost.\n\nChild development and consciousness author Joseph Chilton Pearce remarked that revelation typically appears in symbolic form and \"in a single flash of insight.\" He used the metaphor of lightning striking and suggests that the revelation is \"a result of a buildup of resonant potential.\" Pearce compared it to the earth asking a question and the sky answering it. Focus, he said, feeds into \"a unified field of like resonance (and becomes) capable of attracting and receiving the field's answer when it does form.\"\n\nSome cite aspects of cognitive psychology such as pattern forming and attention to the formation of prophecy in modern-day society as well as the declining influence of religion in daily life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49745023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49745023", "title": "Px3", "text": "Px3\n\nThe Prix de la Photographie, Paris or Px3 is a European photography award. It was founded in 2007 and includes a Gold Award, Silver Award and Bronze Award.\n\nWinning photographs from the competition are exhibited in a gallery in Paris and published in an annual book.\n\n"}
{"id": "35440761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35440761", "title": "Rich Benjamin", "text": "Rich Benjamin\n\nRich Benjamin is an American cultural critic, anthropologist, and author.\n\nBenjamin is perhaps best known for the non-fiction book \"Searching for Whitopia: An Improbable Journey to the Heart of White America\". Benjamin's investigation of Whitopia was the subject of a 2015 TED Talk, which has garnered 2 million views across media platforms and earned translation into 25 languages. \n\nHe is also a lecturer and a public intellectual, who regularly discusses issues on NPR, PBS, MSNBC, and CNN. His writing frequently appears in \"The New York Times\", \"The New Yorker\", \"The Guardian\" and \"Salon\".\n\nBenjamin’s work focuses on United States politics and culture, comparative world politics, money, class, African Americans, Whites, Latinos, public policy, global cultural transformation, and demographic change.\n\nBenjamin is currently a Senior Fellow at Demos.\n\n"}
{"id": "1493811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1493811", "title": "Rough Draft (novel)", "text": "Rough Draft (novel)\n\nWritten in 2005, Moscow, Rough Draft by Sergey Lukyanenko is a fantasy novel of the \"parallel world\" genre. It was followed by \"Final Draft\".\n\nKirill, a Russian living in Moscow, one day discovers that he has the ability to go to other worlds parallel to our Earth.\n\nThe story starts with the hero, Kirill, being \"erased\" from daily life in present-day Moscow. Everybody forgets him (even his parents and dog), another person lives in his apartment, all IDs and files in all offices disappear. After a while he is phoned and invited to an old water tower — but inside is his future home and working place. There it is revealed to him that he is able to open doors, leading to other worlds — although at first all but one are locked. Once opened each door becomes rigidly connected to some world, but which one can't be predicted. All of the worlds have mostly similar environments and seem to be on the planet Earth but the societies and people are different.\n\nAfter a while Kirill meets a special group of functionals, so called because they gained supernatural abilities making them excellent in some profession. They serve other people, but mostly other functionals. They say Kirill has become one of them — a \"customs officer\". He benefits from taxes paid by people who pass through his tower. Also he has superhuman strength and is almost immortal, but only within 10 km of his tower.\n\nKirill enjoys these new worlds, people and abilities. A politician Dima meets him and asks to find a national idea for Russia. He informs Kirill about the world number One, which nobody can access and which seems to be exactly our world living 30 years later. Critical information from this world may enhance the prestige of the country.\n\nKirill also encounters an underground, that is, a few people fighting against the 'corporate laws' of functionals and their working for themselves or the elites of other worlds. He remains untouched by the rhetoric of the underground, justifying most of this. Ideas of armed opposition are alien if not to say ridiculous for him. However, a younger woman whom Kirill falls in love with is a genuine underground activist...\n\nThe last door opened leads to the world number One: A lovely Moscow filled with smiling people: there were no horrors of revolution and no World War II, as this world \"lags\" for 30 years and the rulers of it carefully study the mistakes of other worlds. It's just what Dima proposed to Kirill, but applied in reverse.\n\nUpon rather bloody returning to our world, Kirill faces troubles with his girl. Hating the system of functionals, she manifests disobedience. But their laws don't forgive this, and the functional Natalie murders her, Kirill being unable to resurrect her...\n\nIn Kirill's fighting Natalie, his tower becomes devastated, thus he ceases being a functional and is restored to his former life.\n\n\"Rough Draft\" features a number of alternate universes. The precise number of them is unknown, with the later parts of the book suggesting that there may be many more universes than most Functionals are aware of. The only way to travel between these universes is through watchtowers, which exist in several universes at once (though the way they appear differs with each respective universe). The functionals refer to the universes by official numerical designations and more colloquial nicknames. Those nicknames are not always consistent - for example, functions and their allies tend to refer to Earth 3 by the name of a city-state that's closest to the watchtower they use to get there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10869139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10869139", "title": "Science Week Ireland", "text": "Science Week Ireland\n\nScience Week Ireland is an annual week-long event in Ireland each November, celebrating science in our everyday lives. Science Week is an initiative of Science Foundation Ireland (SFI) It is the largest science festival in the country, engaging tens of thousands of members of the general public in workshops, science shows, talks, laboratory demonstrations, science walks and other science-related events. Science Week is a collaboration of events involving industry, colleges, schools, libraries, teachers, researchers and students throughout Ireland. \n\nScience Week supports Science Foundation Ireland’s mission to catalyse, inspire and guide the best in science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) education and public engagement. The ultimate aim of this effort is that Ireland will have the most engaged and scientifically informed public by 2020 as outlined in Science Foundation Ireland’s strategy Agenda 2020. This also aligns to the national science innovation strategy, Innovation 2020.\n\nOver the years, Science Week Ireland has grown from a small pilot initiative to a large promotional and event engine to its current identity as a recognised vehicle for regional activity supported by a national promotional campaign. \nThe first Science Week in Ireland was held in 1996. It was organised by Forfás on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology at the Department of Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation under the name 'Information Technology and Science Week'. The week aimed to raise general awareness of the benefits of science and information technology to people, young and old throughout society. In 1997 it was renamed as Science Week. Professional bodies, voluntary groups, colleges, businesses and the public sector combined to organise 50 events countrywide. Events included conferences, lectures, interactive exhibitions, debates, and competitions for primary school students. \n\nSFI took over Science Week from the Forfás Discover Science and Engineering programme in 2012. Science Week continued to grow and develop over the following years into what it represents today, a week-long celebration of STEM public engagement, enhancing the public’s interest in STEM and enabling them to see the relevance of STEM to their daily lives.\n\nScience Week 2007 took place between 11–18 November and the theme was \"Surrounded by Science\". The programme of events set out to illustrate that behind the everyday objects in our lives is a great inventor, scientist or engineer. This included a series of lectures which featured Craig Johnston, inventor of the Adidas Predator; Joe F. Edwards, Jr., former NASA astronaut; and Dr. Sheila Willis, Director of the Forensic Science Laboratory.\n\n2007 was the eleventh year of Science Week and saw an estimated 95,000 people attend lectures, exhibitions and workshops throughout the country.\n\nThe 2008 Science Week took place between 11–16 November. The theme was 'Science – Shaping Our World' which celebrates the International Year of Planet Earth. \n\nThe guest lecturers include Professor Aubrey Manning, distinguished zoologist and broadcaster; Gerry Johnston, director of Special Effects Ireland; Dr. Cynthia Breazeal, Associate Professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Stephen Attenborough of Virgin Galactic; and Patrick Collison, Irish Young Scientist of the Year winner 2005. These can be viewed on YouTube.\n\nScience Week 2009 took place between 8–15 November. The theme was 'Science – Inspiring Creativity and Innovation’, which links to the European Year of Creativity and Innovation.\n\nIn the summer of 2009, DSE launched a Twitter account for the latest news on Science Week. \n\nA lecture series included speakers from the Tyndall National Institute, Cork and Sustainable Energy Ireland. These can be viewed on YouTube.\n\nScience Week 2010 ran from 7-14 November. Its theme was ‘Our Place in Space’, which explored the latest happenings in astronomy, Ireland’s role in the space industry, and the vital role played by science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) in helping us to make sense of our universe.\n\nScience Week 2011 ran from 13–20 November. The theme was 'The Chemistry of Life', demonstrating the importance of chemistry to our everyday lives – from the atoms that are the building blocks of nature to the chemistry that creates lasting bonds between people.\n\nScience Week 2012 ran from 11–18 November. The theme was ‘Everyday Experimenting’, highlighting how we are all involved in science every day, carrying out scientific processes and experimenting, even when not aware of it.\n\nScience Week 2013 ran from 10-17 November. The theme was ‘Exploring the XTRA-Ordinary’, which called on the public to go ‘behind the scenes’ of everyday life and explore the extraordinary processes taking place in front of our eyes.\n\nAn estimated 250,000 people took part in science festivals, demonstrations, seminars and tours across the country during the 19th annual national Science Week, which took place from 9-16 November 2014. The theme was ‘Power of Science’. Over 800 events took place across Ireland, including science festivals in Sligo, Galway, Mayo, Dublin, Cork, Waterford and the Midlands, aiming to \"entertain, educate and enthral young and old alike with the power of science\". Jamie Heaslip acted as a Science Week ambassador.\n\n2015 marked the 20th anniversary of Science Week, which took place from 8-15 November. The theme was ‘Science Week 2.0 Design Your Future’. It celebrated how science empowers ‘you’ to ‘Design Your Future’. Numerous events were held in every county, and regional festivals took place in Mayo, Sligo, Galway, Waterford, Cork, Limerick and the midlands. \n\nScience Week 2016 took place from 13-20 November. The theme was ‘Science Rising’ which looks at how science is key to our success – it is part of our past, an important part of our present and there is endless potential still to be realised. \nScience Week 2016 reached more people, all over Ireland, across a wider demographic than had been achieved before. Science Week 2016 saw 10 Regional Festivals across the country. \n\nScience Week 2017 ran nationwide from 12-19 November 2017. The theme was ‘Believe in Science’. More than 1180 events took place across Ireland. 12 regional science festivals took place in Cavan/Monaghan, Cork, Carlow, Festival of Farming and Food (Teagasc), Galway, Kerry, Limerick, Mayo, the Midlands, Sligo, Southeast and Tipperary.\n\nA number of Science Foundation Ireland-funded Science Week events took place throughout the week, including events by the Ark Theatre, The British Council of Ireland, Dublinia, Dunsink Observatory, Foodoppi, Learnit Educational Solutions, the Science Gallery, ADAPT, The Rediscovery Centre and Wexford Co. Council. The Scintillating Science event with Dara O'Briain launched the beginning of Science Week in the National Concert Hall, and the Dublin Science Week Family Open Day at the Convention Centre Dublin was held at the end of the week. \n\nDuring Science Week 2017, SFI launched the #StopAndAsk social media campaign which calls on people to ask questions about the world around them. Science Foundation Ireland, its partners and the science community answered a selection of these questions throughout the week.\nA show reel of some highlights of Science Week 2017 can be viewed on YouTube.\n\nScience Week 2018 will run from 11-18 November 2018.\n\nThe SFI website outlines tips on how to get involved with Science Week in Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "12664042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12664042", "title": "Sex-limited genes", "text": "Sex-limited genes\n\nSex-limited genes are genes that are present in both sexes of sexually reproducing species but are expressed in only one sex and remain 'turned off' in the other. In other words, sex-limited genes cause the two sexes to show different traits or phenotypes, despite having the same genotype. This term is restricted to autosomal traits, and should not be confused with sex-linked characteristics, which have to do with genetic differences on the sex chromosomes (see sex-determination system). Sex-limited genes are also distinguished from sex-influenced genes, where the same gene will show differential expression in each sex. Sex-influenced genes commonly show a dominant/recessive relationship, where the same gene will have a dominant effect in one sex and a recessive effect in the other (for example, male pattern baldness).\n\nSex-limited genes are responsible for sexual dimorphism, which is a phenotypic (directly observable) difference between males and females of the same species. These differences can be reflected in size, color, behavior (ex: levels of aggression), and morphology. An example of sex-limited genes are genes which instruct the male elephant seals to grow big and fight, at the same time instructing female seals to grow small and avoid fights. These genes are also responsible for some female beetles' inability to grow exaggerated mandibles, research that is discussed in detail later in this article.\n\nThe overall point of sex-limited genes is to resolve intralocus sexual conflict. In other words, these genes try to resolve the \"push-pull\" between males and females over trait values for optimal phenotype. Without these genes, organisms would be forced to settle on an \"average \"trait value, incurring costs on both sexes. With these genes, it is possible to 'turn off' the genes in one sex, allowing both sexes to attain (or at least, approach very closely) their optimal phenotypes.\n\nUnsurprisingly, the idea of sex-limited genes was initially developed by Charles Darwin himself in 1871 in his book \"The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to Sex.\" He does not distinguish between sex-limited, sex-linked, and sex-influenced genes, but refers to any gene that expresses differently between sexes as sex-limited. While this concept was still in its infancy, Darwin catalyzed the further development of sex-related selection. Thomas Hunt Morgan, fully aware of this confusing terminology, published an article in \"The American Naturalist \"in 1914 titled \"Sex-Linked and Sex-Limited Inheritance.\" This article directly acknowledges that Darwin applied the term sex-limited whenever a characteristic seemed specific to one sex. Morgan proposes the definitions for sex-linked genes and sex-limited genes that we still use today (and that were defined in the introduction above). This paper helped to distinguish between these two similar concepts and clarify much confusion in the scientific community at the time. Morgan's paper was followed by several others involving sex-limited genes and their expression as traits. One of the more notable examples is John H. Gerould's \"Inheritance of White Wing Color, a Sex-Limited (Sex-Controlled) Variation in Yellow Pierid Butterflies,\" published in \"Genetics \"in 1923 (and edited slightly in 1924). Gerould observed that in this species of butterfly, females naturally occur as yellow or white, while males only occur with yellow coloration. He extensively explores this apparently sex-limited trait from a genetic perspective in this ground-breaking 50 page paper. To conclude the notable advancements in the early stages of the development of sex-limited genes, a brief discussion of R. A. Fisher is necessary. Commonly hailed as one of the best evolutionary biologists of his time, Fisher was also a talented geneticist. His book \"The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection\", published in 1930, over 20 years before the double-helix shape of DNA was discovered, was the first attempt to explain Darwin's theories within the foundation of genetics. Chapter 6 of this book is titled \"Sexual Reproduction and Sexual Selection\" and includes a genetic interpretation of Darwin's initial idea of sex-limited genes. After these groundbreaking works, papers continue to be published further exploring the causes, mechanisms, evolutionary advantages, and more of sex-limited genes.\n\nMany studies have been published exploring the genetic basis of sex-limited genes. One paper, published in \"Evolution\", evaluates the hypothesis that sex-limited traits can arise in two ways. The alleles responsible for sexual dimorphism can be limited to expression in only one sex when they first appear, or the alleles could begin by being expressed in both sexes then become modified (repressed or promoted) in one sex by modifier genes or regulatory elements. The concept of this study was to examine female hybrids from species where males displayed different types of ornamental traits (elongated feathers, wattles, color patches). The assumption is that different hypotheses about male-specific expression will yield different results in female hybrids. The methods and materials of the experiment are discussed in detail in the paper, but the important result that emerged was that NO female hybrids expressed any of the ornamental traits found in the parent males. Two interpretations of these results are possible: the dimorphic alleles were initially only expressed in males, or the alleles were initially expressed in both and then were suppressed in females or became limited to males by regulatory regions that are \"completely dominant\" in hybrids. The most likely genomic explanation for initial expression in both species then modification is involvement of \"cis\"-dominance, where the factors that modify the gene are located next to the gene on the chromosome. (This is in contrast to \"trans\"-dominance, where mobile products that can affect distant genes are produced.) These factors can be in the form of promoter regions, which can be either be suppressed or activated by hormones. This experiment also demonstrates that these alleles come under regulatory control very quickly. This is because none of the ornamentation seen in males is seen in the \"very next \"generation. These conclusions make it likely that at least some male-specific (thus, sex-limited) genes cue their expression by hormone levels - the absence of estrogen or the presence of testosterone.\n\nBecause sex-limited genes are present in both sexes but only expressed in one, this allows the unexpressed genes to be hidden from selection. On a short-term scale, this means that during one generation, only the sex that expresses the sex-limited trait(s) of interest will be affected by selection. The remaining half of the gene pool for these traits will be unaffected by selection because they are hidden (unexpressed) in the genes of the other sex. Since a portion of the alleles for these sex-limited traits are hidden from selection, this occurrence has been termed 'storage-effect'. On a long-term scale, this storage effect can have significant effects on selection, especially if selection is fluctuating over a long period of time. It is inarguable that selection will fluctuate over time with varying levels of environmental stability. For example, fluctuations in population density can drive selection on sex-limited traits. In less dense populations, females will have less opportunity to choose between males for reproduction. In this case, attractive males may experience both reduced reproductive success and increased predation pressure. Thus, selection on males for sex-limited traits such as increased size (elephant seals) and weaponry (claws on fiddler crabs, horns on rhinoceros beetles) will change direction with fluctuation in population density.\n\nJohn Parsch and Hans Ellegren defined \"genes that differ in expression between females and males\" as sex-biased genes. While this definition is more broad, sex-limited genes are certainly included in this category. One of the key principles of sex-biased gene expression that Parsch and Ellegren stressed in their paper in February 2013 is that of rapid evolution. They assert that a gene's sex bias can vary among different types of tissues throughout the body or throughout development, making the level of sex bias a fluid, rather than static, property. This makes it possible, then, that the rapid evolution seen in sex-biased genes is not an inherent property of their sex bias, but a property of some other feature. The paper offers expression breadth, the number of tissue types in which the genes are expressed, as an example of a feature correlated to sex-biased genes. It is known that genes with limited expression (in only one type of tissue) generally evolve faster than those with a higher expression breadth, and sex-biased genes are often restricted in their expression, such as to only the testes or ovaries. Thus, it is likely that sex-biased (including sex-limited) genes will evolve faster than the average genetic information. Parsch and Ellegren also assert that \"sex-biased genes expressed only in sex-limited reproductive tissues evolve faster than unbiased genes that are expressed only in a single, non-reproductive tissue.\" That is, genes that have a bias toward any kind of reproductive tissue (testes or ovaries) seem to show faster evolution than genes expressed in non-gonadal tissues, despite the number of tissues in which they are expressed. This makes sense in the context of genes with reproductive function evolving more quickly, a generally observed pattern in evolutionary biology.\n\nSexual antagonism occurs when two species have conflicting optimal fitness strategies concerning reproduction (see link in introduction paragraph). Multiple matings is a classic example of competing optimal strategies. Males, who typically have a much lower overall investment in reproduction, may benefit from more frequent matings. Females, however, invest much more in reproduction and can be endangered, harmed, or even killed by multiple matings.\n\nIn 2010, Hosken et al. completed an important study exploring the effects of sexually antagonistic selection on sex-limited trait expression. They asked if sex-specific trait selection always resolved intralocus conflict, as it was believed to do. By using a species of flour beetle, \"Gnatocerus cornutus\", exhibiting sex-limited traits in the form of exaggerated mandible size, they were able to test this hypothesis. Exaggerated mandibles are \"only \"developed in males; females never develop exaggerated mandibles. The point of this experiment was to determine how mandibles affect fitness. If these sex-limited genes are truly quelling intralocus sexual conflict, male mandible size should have no effect on female fitness. After selecting for males with exaggerated mandibles (full materials and methods can be found within the paper), it was experimentally determined that males with exaggerated mandibles had a higher fitness - they experienced increased fighting and mating success. It was also found, however, that females found in the populations of males with exaggerated mandibles had lower fitness (as determined by lifetime reproductive success, LRS) relative to the fitness of females in populations with males with smaller mandibles. Since this male sex-limited trait affects female fitness, intralocus sexual conflict has \"not \"been resolved. This highlights the importance of sexual conflict to evolution, because it cannot simply be defused by sex-limited trait expression.\n\nLater the same year, a paper in \"Evolution \"also came to the same conclusions about sexual antagonism in relation to sex-limited genes. They developed a mathematical model to show that the fitness costs of sexual antagonism, even when rare, will usually overwhelm the benefits of sexually concordant selection. (Sexually concordant selection occurs when selection favors the same alleles in both sexes but differs in relative strength between them.) Through several advanced calculations, they concluded that even a small relative amount of sexual antagonism will overwhelm any benefit harvested from sexually concordant selection. Coming to the same conclusion as Hosken et al., they demonstrated mathematically that when sex-limited gene expression attempts to resolve sexual antagonism, it is likely to produce negative long-term fitness consequences. This result is seen in the experiment with beetles above, where the females demonstrate reduced fitness in response to males selected for larger mandibles. So, with mathematical support and a lack of support for strong fitness benefits as a result of sexually concordant selection, the paper concludes that sex-specific selection is more likely to incur costs than benefits to sexually reproducing species.\n\nAnimal behavior (see ethology) encompasses so many disciplines that it is impossible not to see it in some capacity in almost all primary literature involving live animals. While the examples above certainly contain aspects of animal behavior, a more overt example of it in relation to sex-limited traits is detailed in a Teplitsky et al. paper (2010) centering on breeding time in red-billed gulls. This experiment deals with breeding time, an aspect of reproductive biology. Reproduction and sexual behavior are two key aspects of animal behavior, as they are universally expressed in some way throughout the animal kingdom.\n\nBreeding time in red-billed gulls is expressed only in females, because only females lay eggs. Male care, however, affects female breeding performance substantially. This qualifies breeding time as a sex-limited trait because it is expressed only in one sex but can be affected by both (similarly to Hosken's beetle experiment above). By following a natural population of red-billed gulls for 46 years, Teplitsky et al. came to an unexpected conclusion - while laying date (aka breeding time) is only expressed in females, the trait is only heritable in males. This is atypical because sex-limited traits are almost always heritable within the sex in which they are expressed.\n\nFor this species, the timing of egg-laying has much to do with male behavior. Males can affect female reproductive success so strongly because for the 20 days up to egg-laying, females spend up to 80% of their time in the nest. This leaves males with the responsibility of providing food regularly and securing (and maintaining) a high-quality territory for nesting. This phenomenon of the genetics of one individual affecting those of another individual is known as \"indirect genetic effects\". For this population, at least, possible explanations for this atypical heritability pattern exist. While controlling female health and safety, males are responsible for the timing of the start of courtship feeding, as well. These populations also typically have excesses of females, allowing males to exert even further choice in the form of mate choice. These factors in combination give males a great opportunity to express their \"laying date genotype\". In spite of the presence of directional selection and significant male heritability for breeding time, no advancement of breeding time was seen during the 46 years of this experiment. This does not discount the significance of the paper's other results however - one of the most significant being that here a \"female trait (laying date) is largely determined by genetic characteristics of its mate\".\n\nEpigenetics is the inheritance of additional marks to the genome without changes in its sequence. These factors epigenetic factors may also be sex-limited. Genomic imprinting for example, silencing of one parental allele by DNA methylation, for which sex-limited imprinting has been proposed to resolve intralocus conflict. Genomic imprinting has been shown to be indistinguishable from non-imprinted systems at the population level in some cases, having equivalent evolutionary models. However, this does not hold for sex-limited models of sex-limited imprinting which behave differently depending on which sex imprinting occurs and the parental sex of imprinted allele. Specifically, this affects whether alleles are imprinted in consecutive generations with different evolutionary trajectories (under the same selection fitnesses) arising purely due to sex-limited epigenetics. Thus sex-limited epigenetic traits may have played a pivotal role in the evolution of mammals and other species, particularly as a mechanism to ameliorate intralocus conflict between the sexes.\n\nOverall, sex-limited genes carry with them several complex cost to benefit ratios which call for further analysis. For example, while they allow for greater opportunities of sexual dimorphism so both sexes can reach much closer to their optimal phenotypes, they also incur fitness costs on sexually reproducing species. Since Charles Darwin's revolutionary book was published in 1871, there have been many studies done on the nature of these genes. The scientific literature dealing with the concepts of sexual dimorphism and sex-limited genes extends far past what has been listed here. The genetic and mechanistic details of these genes are still being discovered through ongoing research today. It is becoming apparent that a deeper understanding sex-limited genes will be increasingly important as the fields of evolutionary biology and genetics advance.\n\n"}
{"id": "5652788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5652788", "title": "Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship", "text": "Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship\n\nWithin higher-education, Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) are a common summer immersion experience which supplement research activities that occur during the academic year. Typically, these highly competitive undergraduate programs are overseen by a member of a college's faculty, who provide general guidance to the undergraduate's research work. Areas of research vary widely, and can come from any art or science discipline.\n\nOften, SURF participants are given a stipend to cover living expenses for the duration of the project. SURF projects are also, more often than not, used for college credit, though this will vary according to the institution.\n\nMany colleges give students the option to carry out a one or two semester senior research project, also under the SURF banner. Majors in a department follow a core of course requirements intended to gradually introduce students to the research process. By following this core, undergraduates reach their senior year adequately prepared for meaningful, independent research. A distinctive element of many SURF experiences is that the project results in a written thesis defended before a faculty panel in the presence of the department and students.\n\n"}
{"id": "4574795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4574795", "title": "Tangible culture", "text": "Tangible culture\n\nTangible culture is culture that is tangible or touchable, the opposite of intangible culture.\n"}
{"id": "18400194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18400194", "title": "Tea in the United Kingdom", "text": "Tea in the United Kingdom\n\nSince the eighteenth century, the United Kingdom has been one of the world's greatest tea consumers, with an average annual \"per capita\" tea supply of 1.9 kg (4.18 lbs). The British Empire was instrumental in spreading tea from China to India; British interests controlled tea production in the subcontinent. Tea, which was an upper-class drink in continental Europe, became the infusion of every social class in Great Britain throughout the course of the eighteenth century and has remained so. Tea is a prominent feature of British culture and society.\n\nIn both the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, the drinking of tea is so varied that it is quite hard to generalise. While it is usually served with milk, it is not uncommon to drink it black or with lemon, with sugar being a popular addition to any of the above. Strong tea, served in a mug with milk and sugar, is a popular combination known as builder's tea.\n\nThe rise in popularity of tea between the seventeenth and nineteenth centuries had major social, political, and economic implications for Great Britain. It defined respectability and domestic rituals, supported the rise and dominance of the British Empire, and contributed to the rise of the Industrial Revolution by supplying both the capital for factories and calories for labourers. It also demonstrates the power of globalization and imperialism to transform a country and shape it into the modern society it is known as today. Tea remains a popular drink in Britain in the modern day and is still considered to be an important part of British identity.\n\nHistorians debate the causes of tea’s popularity and many attribute it to one or two factors, but a range of different factors are apparent at different times. Ukers argues in \"All About Tea: Volume I\" that the rise in popularity of tea in Great Britain was largely due to tea’s reputation among men as a medicinal drink that could cure a wide array of ailments, along with its burgeoning presence in the coffeehouses where elite men congregated. As for tea’s popularity among women, he briefly acknowledges that Princess Catherine of Braganza, the Portuguese future queen consort of England, made tea fashionable among aristocratic women, but largely attributes its popularity to its ubiquity in the medical discourse of seventeenth century. Ellis, Coulton, and Mauger trace tea’s popularity back to three distinct groups in \"Empire of Tea: The Asian Leaf that Conquered the World\". These groups were virtuosi, merchants, and elite female aristocrats. They argue that the influence of these three groups combined launched tea as a popular beverage in Great Britain. \n\nSmith, in his article \"Complications of the Commonplace: Tea, Sugar, and Imperialism\" differs from Ukers and Ellis, Coulton, and Mauger in that he argues that tea only became popular once sugar was added to the drink and tea with sugar became associated with a domestic ritual that indicated respectability. Mintz, in both “The Changing Roles of Food in the Story of Consumption” and \"Sweetness and Power\", agrees and disagrees with Smith. Mintz acknowledges that sugar played a monumental role in the rise of tea, but contradicts Smith’s connection of tea to respectability. While Smith argues that tea first became popular in the home, Mintz believes tea first became popular in the workplace, as people drank tea during the workday for its warm sweetness and stimulating properties. It was later that it entered the home and became an “integral part of the social fabric.”\n\nThe history of European interactions with tea dates back to the mid-sixteenth century. The earliest mention of tea in European literature was by Giambattista Ramusio, a Venetian explorer, as Chai Catai or “Tea of China” in 1559. Tea was mentioned several more times in various European countries afterwards, but Jan Hugo van Linschooten, a Dutch navigator, was the first to write a printed reference of tea in 1598 in his \"Discours of Voyages\".\n\nHowever, it was several years later, in 1615, that the earliest known reference to tea by an Englishman took place in a letter exchanged between Mr. R. Wickham, an agent for the British East India Company stationed at Japan to a Mr. Eaton, who was stationed in Macao [portuguese domain since 1557], China. In this letter, Wickham asked Eaton to send him “a pot of the best sort of chaw,” phonetically how one would write \"chàh\", the local (Cantonese) dialect word for tea. Another early reference to tea appears in the writings of trader Samuel Purchas in 1625. Purchas describes how the Chinese consume tea as “the powder of a certaine herbe called chia of which they put as much as a walnut shell may contain, into a dish of Porcelane, and drink it with hot water.” In 1637, Peter Mundy, a traveller and merchant who came across tea in Fujian, China, wrote, \"\"chaa\" – only water with a kind of herb boyled in it\".\n\nThough there were a number of early mentions, it was several more years before tea was actually sold in England. Green tea exported from China was first introduced in the coffeehouses of London shortly before the Stuart Restoration (1660).\n\nThomas Garway (or Garraway), a tobacconist and coffee house owner, was the first person in England to sell tea as a leaf and beverage at his London coffeehouse in Exchange Alley in 1657. He had to explain the new beverage in a pamphlet. Immediately after Garway began selling it, the Sultaness Head Coffee House began selling tea as a beverage and posted the first newspaper advertisement for tea in \"Mercurius Politicus\" on 30 September 1658. The announcement proclaimed \"That Excellent, and by all Physicians approved, \"China\" drink, called by the \"Chinese\", \"Tcha\", by other nations \"Tay alias Tee\", ...sold at the Sultaness-head, ye \"Cophee-house\" in Sweetings-Rents, by the Royal Exchange, \"London\"\". \n\nIn London \"Coffee, chocolate and a kind of drink called \"tee\"\" were \"sold in almost every street in 1659\", according to Thomas Rugge's \"Diurnall\". Tea was mainly consumed by upper and mercantile classes: Samuel Pepys, curious for every novelty, tasted the new drink on 25 September 1660 and recorded the experience in his diary: \"I did send for a cup of tee, (a China drink) of which I had never had drunk before\". \n\nThe British East India company made its first order for the importation of tea in 1667 to their agent in Bantam, and two canisters of tea weighing 143 lbs 8 oz arrived from Bantam in 1669. In 1672, a servant of Baron Herbert in London sent his instructions for tea making, and warming the delicate cups, to Shropshire:\nThe directions for the tea are: a quart of spring water just boiled, to which put a spoonful of tea, and sweeten to the palate with candy sugar. As soon as the tea and sugar are in, the steam must be kept in as much as may be, and let it lie half or quarter of an hour in the heat of the fire but not boil. The little cups must be held over the steam before the liquid be put in.\n\nThe earliest English equipages for making tea date to the 1660s. Small porcelain tea bowls were used by the fashionable; they were occasionally shipped with the tea itself. Tea-drinking spurred the search for a European imitation of Chinese porcelain, first successfully produced in England at the Chelsea porcelain manufactory, established around 1743-45 and quickly imitated. See tea set.\n\nThe first factor that contributed to the rise in popularity of tea was its reputation as a medical drink. Tea first became labeled as a medical drink in 1641 by the Dutch physician Nikolas Dirx, who wrote under the pseudonym \"Nicolas Tulp\" – though he was also a director of the Dutch East India Company, so his praise of tea was likely a marketing tactic. In his book \"Observationes Medicae\", he claimed that \"nothing is comparable to this plant\" and that those who use it are \"exempt from all maladies and reach an extreme old age.\" He goes into detail on the specific merits of tea, such as curing “headaches, colds, ophthalmia, catarrh, asthma, sluggishness of the stomach, and intestinal troubles.” Thomas Garway, the first English shopkeeper to sell tea, published a broadsheet in 1660 titled \"An Exact Description of the Growth, Quality, and Vertues of the Leaf TEA\" which also praised tea's medical benefits. Garway claims that “the Drink is declared to be most wholesome, preserving in perfect health until extreme Old Age\", as well as \"maketh the body active and lusty\", \"helpeth the Headache\", \"taketh away the difficulty of breathing\", \"strengtheneth the Memory\", and \"expelleth infection\". \n\nThere were many more published works on the health benefits of tea, including those by Hartlib in 1657, Bontekoe in 1678, Povey in 1686, and Tryon in the 1690s, and the Royal College of Physicians debated whether any of the exotic new hot drinks would \"agree with the Constitutions of our \"English\" bodies\". In 1667, Pepys noted that his wife was taking tea on medical advice – \"a drink which Mr Pelling the Pottecary tells her is good for her colds and defluxions\". John Locke, the famous English philosopher, developed a fondness for tea after spending time with Dutch medical men in the 1680s. Ellis, Coulton, and Mauger refer to these men as “virtuosi”: scientists, philosophers, and doctors who first took an interest in tea and contributed to its early popularity as a pharmaceutical. But, such as with the case of Tulp, some of these men may have been influenced by Indies companies and merchants who wished to create a market for tea. Nevertheless, there is little doubt that these writings about the so-called health benefits of tea contributed to rise in popularity of tea in England.\n\nAccording to Ellis, Coulton, Maugher, “tea was six to ten times more expensive than coffee” in the 1660s, making it an extremely expensive and luxurious commodity. Moreover, the proliferation of works on the health benefits of tea came at a time when people in the upper classes of English society began to take an interest in their health.\n\nIn 1660, two pounds and two ounces of tea bought from Portugal were formally presented to Charles II by the British East India Company. The drink, already common in Europe, was a favourite of his new Portuguese bride, Catherine of Braganza, who introduced it at court after she married Charles II in 1662, and made it fashionable among the ladies of the court as her temperance drink of choice. Catherine of Braganza's use of tea as a court beverage, rather than a medicinal drink, influenced its popularity in literary circles around 1685. Whenever it was consumed in the court, it was “conspicuously on display” so as to show it off.\n\nAccordingly, tea drinking became a central aspect of aristocratic society in England by the 1680s, particularly among women who drank it while gossiping in the home. Catherine of Braganza’s introduction of tea to ladies was significant because it made tea an acceptable drink for both sexes, when it easily could have been categorized as a men’s drink if it had remained only available in the coffeehouses that only men frequented. Wealthy ladies’ desire to show off their luxurious commodities in front of other ladies also increased demand for tea and made it more popular. Another factor that made tea desirable among the elite crowd was the addition of sugar, another luxurious commodity which was already well-established among the upper classes.\n\nWhile tea slowly became more common in coffeehouses during the second half of the seventeenth century, the first tea shop in London did not open until the early eighteenth century. Thomas Twining's tea shop has been claimed as the first, opening in 1706, and still remained at 216 Strand, London. However, 1717 is also given as a date for the first tea shop. In between tea’s earliest mentions in England and its widespread popularity little over a century later, many factors contributed the craze for this previously unknown foreign commodity.\n\nTea would not have become the English staple it is known as if not for the increase in its supply that made it more accessible. Between 1720 and 1750 the imports of tea to Britain through the British East India Company more than quadrupled. By 1766, exports from Canton stood at six million pounds on British boats, compared with 4.5 on Dutch ships, 2.4 on Swedish, 2.1 on French. Veritable \"tea fleets\" grew up. Tea was particularly interesting to the Atlantic world not only because it was easy to cultivate but also because of how easy it was to prepare and its ability to revive the spirits and, reputedly, cure mild colds.\n\nWhen tea was first introduced to England, the British East India Company was not directly trading with China and merchants relied on tea imports from Holland. Because this tea was so expensive and difficult to get, there was very little demand for it, except among the elite who could afford it and made special orders. It was not until after 1700 that the British East India Company began to trade regularly with China and ordering tea, though not in large quantities. Smith argues that the tea trade was actually a side effect of the silk and textile trade because these were the Chinese commodities that were most desired at the time. In 1720, however, Parliament banned the importation of finished Asian textiles and traders began to focus on tea instead. This new focus marked a turning point for the English tea trade and is arguably why tea became more popular than coffee. Once the British East India company focused on tea as its main import, tea soon attained price stability. Conversely, the price of coffee remained unpredictable and high, allowing tea to grow in popularity before coffee became more accessible. Furthermore, the rising demand for tea and sugar was easily met with increased supply as the tea industry grew in India, which prevented sharp price increases that would have discouraged people from buying it. In fact, the price of tea actually fell as it was becoming more popular among the upper-middle and middle classes. The significant drop in tea’s price between 1720 and 1750 was a major turning point for tea in England. The increase in supply of tea was one of the most important factors that boosted its popularity in Britain and opened up the world of tea to new levels of society.\n\nThough by the beginning of the eighteenth century tea was already gaining popularity on its own, the addition of sugar helped tea’s popularity to soar. The English began adding sugar to their tea between 1685 and the early eighteenth century. At this time, sugar was already being used to enhance the flavor of other foods among the elite and had a reputation as an ostentatious luxury. Because both tea and sugar had status implications it made sense to drink them together, and the growth in the import of tea parallels that of sugar in the eighteenth century, which itself was booming due to the growth of sugar plantations in the Americas. But, as previously mentioned, the elite classes of England were starting to care more about their health and literature on the unhealthiness of sugar was beginning to circulate in the late seventeenth century. Adding sugar to tea, however, was seen as an acceptable way to consume sugar because it suggested that “one had the self-control to consume sugar in a healthy way.” Sugar also masks tea’s bitterness, so it simply made tea more desirable because it tasted better. As the supply of both tea and sugar grew during the early eighteenth century, the combination of the two commodities became more universal and increased the popularity and demand for both products. Black tea overtook green tea in popularity in the 1720s when sugar and milk were added to tea, a practice that was not done in China.\n\nBecause tea began in Britain as a luxury for the super-rich, it had a reputation in the eighteenth century as a high-class commodity. But as prices slowly fell, more people at the middle levels of society had access to it. Accordingly, drinking tea became associated with respectability among upwardly mobile middle-class people. When people drank tea, they were expected to possess certain manners and behave in a particular way. Soon, drinking tea became a domestic ritual among families, colleagues, and friends who were just wealthy enough to afford it, which also increased demand. The association between tea and respectability became so ingrained in both British and Irish culture that it reached a point where it could not go out of fashion. Tea-drinking among these groups was also soon considered patriotic. \n\nBecause the British East India Company had a monopoly over the tea industry in England, tea became more popular than coffee, chocolate, and alcohol. Tea was seen as inherently British and tea-drinking was encouraged by the British government because of the revenue gained from taxing tea. Unlike coffee and chocolate, which came from the colonies of Britain’s rivals in various regions of the world, tea was produced in a single massive colony and served as a means of not only profit, but colonial power. Mintz goes so far as to argue that the combination of ritualization and increased production in the British colonies was how tea became inherently British. \n\nAs the British continued to import more and more tea throughout the eighteenth century, tea slowly went from a respectable commodity consumed by the well-mannered classes in domestic rituals to an absolute necessity in the British diet, even among the poor working classes. John Hanway, an eighteenth-century social reformer, observed the widespread consumption of tea by the poor in 1767. He described \"a certain lane ... where beggars are often seen ... drinking their tea\", as well as \"laborers mending their roads drinking their tea\" and tea \"in the cups of haymakers\". Just two centuries after the first appearance of tea in English society as a beverage for aristocrats, tea had become so widely popular and available that those at the absolute bottom of the social hierarchy were consuming it as their beverage of choice. It was at this point that tea became universal among all levels of society. Fernand Braudel asked, \"is it true to say the new drink replaced gin in England?\"\n\nBy the nineteenth century, tea’s popularity had reached the working class and it was soon considered an everyday necessity among poor labourers. According to the Scottish historian David MacPherson, tea had become cheaper than beer in the early nineteenth century. Furthermore, sugar had also become extremely cheap by this time and the two were almost always consumed together. Though the price of coffee had also gone down by this point, tea was the preferred drink because, unlike coffee, it still tasted good when diluted, which is often how the poor consumed it in order to save money. \n\nTea had other attractions as well. Drinking a hot, sweet beverage transformed their meals, which generally consisted of dry bread and cheese, and made them go down more easily. The warm beverage was especially appealing given Britain’s cold and wet climate. Further, tea helped alleviate some of the consequences of the urbanization that accompanied the industrial revolution: drinking tea required boiling the water, thereby killing water-borne diseases like dysentery, cholera, and typhoid.\n\nHowever, the poor consumed tea very differently to the well-mannered ritual adopted by the upper classes. According to Mintz, “tea-drinking among the poor probably began in connection with work, not in the home”, and some scholars suggest that tea played a role in the British Industrial Revolution. Day labourers brewed their tea out in the open and brought their tea equipment with them to work, as opposed to the private domestic ritual that had previously surrounded tea-drinking. Afternoon tea possibly became a way to increase the number of hours labourers could work; the stimulants in the tea, accompanied by the calorie boost from the sugar and accompanying snacks, would give workers energy to finish the day's work.\n\nThe popularity of tea occasioned the furtive export of slips, a small shoot for planting or twig for grafting to tea plants, from China to British India and its commercial cultivation there, beginning in 1840.\n\nBetween 1872 and 1884 the supply of tea to the British Empire increased with the expansion of the railway to the east. The demand, however, was not proportional, which caused the prices to rise. Nevertheless, from 1884 onward, due to innovation in tea preparation, the price of tea dropped and remained relatively low throughout the first half of the twentieth century.\n\nSoon afterwards London became the centre of the international tea trade. With high tea imports also came a large increase in the demand for porcelain. The demand for tea cups, pots and dishes increased to go along with this popular new drink.\n\nRoger Fulford argues that tea rooms benefited women in the Victorian era, in that these neutral public spaces were instrumental in the \"spread of independence\" for women and their struggle for the vote. Paul Chrystal characterizes tea rooms as \"popular and fashionable, especially with women\", providing them a dignified and safe place to meet and eat – and strategize on political campaigns.\n\nIn 2003, \"DataMonitor\" reported that regular tea drinking in the United Kingdom was on the decline. There was a 10.25 per cent decline in the purchase of normal teabags in Britain between 1997 and 2002. Sales of ground coffee also fell during the same period. Britons were instead drinking health-oriented beverages like fruit or herbal teas, consumption of which increased 50 per cent from 1997 to 2002. A further, unexpected, statistic is that the sales of decaffeinated tea and coffee fell even faster during this period than the sale of the more common varieties. Declining tea sales were matched by an increase in espresso sales. Nevertheless, tea still remains an extremely popular drink and is still engrained in British culture and society.\n\nIn 1787, Twinings Tea created its logo, still in use today, which is thought to be the world's oldest commercial logo that has been in continuous use since its inception. Under Associated British Foods since 1964, Stephen Twining now represents the company's tenth generation. In 2006, Twinings celebrated its 300th anniversary with a special tea and associated tea caddies. Twining's is a Royal Warrant holder (appointed by HM The Queen).\n\nEven very slightly formal events can be a cause for cups and saucers to be used instead of mugs. A typical semi-formal British tea ritual might run as follows (the host performing all actions unless noted):\n\n\nWhether to put milk into the cup before or after the tea has been a matter of debate since at least the mid-twentieth century; in his 1946 essay \"A Nice Cup of Tea\", author George Orwell wrote, \"tea is one of the mainstays of civilisation in this country and causes violent disputes over how it should be made\". Whether to put tea in the cup first and add the milk after, or the other way around, has split public opinion, with Orwell stating, \"indeed in every family in Britain there are probably two schools of thought on the subject\".\n\nAnother aspect of the debate are claims that adding milk at the different times alters the flavour of the tea (for instance, see ISO 3103 and the Royal Society of Chemistry's \"How to make a Perfect Cup of Tea\".) Some studies suggest that the heating of milk above 75 degrees Celsius (adding milk after the tea is poured, not before) does cause denaturation of the lactalbumin and lactoglobulin. Other studies argue brewing time has a greater importance. Regardless, when milk is added to tea, it may affect the flavour. In addition to considerations of flavour, the order of these steps is thought to have been, historically, an indication of class. Only those wealthy enough to afford good-quality porcelain would be confident of its being able to cope with being exposed to boiling water unadulterated with milk.\n\nA further point of discussion on when to add milk is how it affects the time taken for the liquid to reach a drinkable temperature. While adding milk first will cause an initial drop in temperature which leads to a more shallow cooling curve (thus slower cooling) while also increasing volume (which would slightly increase the surface area through which the tea could lose heat), one study noted that adding milk first leads to the tea retaining heat out of all proportion with these effects. The major mechanism by which hot tea cools is not conduction or radiation but evaporative loss which is affected by the physical properties of the milk. The study concluded that lipids in milk prevent water evaporating so rapidly thus retaining heat longer.\n\nThere are opinions as to the proper manner in which to drink tea when using a cup and saucer. Historically, during the 1770s and 1780s, it was fashionable to drink tea from saucers. Saucers were deeper than is the current fashion and so more similar to bowls like their Chinese antecedents. If one is seated at a table, the proper manner to drink tea is to raise the teacup only, placing it back into the saucer in between sips. When standing or sitting in a chair without a table, one holds the tea saucer with the off hand and the tea cup in the dominant hand. When not in use, the tea cup is placed back in the tea saucer and held in one's lap or at waist height. In either event, the tea cup should never be held or waved in the air. Fingers should be curled inwards; despite popular belief in the United States, no finger should extend away from the handle of the cup.\n\nShortly before the Restoration of 1660, Chinese green tea was introduced to the coffeehouses of London, which were significant places of social interaction, distinct from pubs, taverns, and inns. The owner of the coffeehouse explained the new beverage in a pamphlet: \"That Excellent, and by all Physicians approved, \"China\" drink, called by the \"Chinese\", \"Tcha\", by other nations \"Tay alias Tee\", ...sold at the Sultaness-head, ye \"Cophee-house\" in Sweetings-Rents, by the Royal Exchange, \"London\"\". \"Coffee, chocolate and a kind of drink called \"tee\"\" were \"sold in almost every street [in London] in 1659\", according to Thomas Rugge's \"Diurnall\". Tea was mainly consumed by upper and mercantile classes: Samuel Pepys, curious for every novelty, tasted the new drink in 1660 and recorded the experience in his diary for 25 September: \"I did send for a cup of tee, (a China drink) of which I had never had drunk before\".\n\nHogarth's \"Gin Lane\" was not the first warning about working class drunkenness. One response to the perception of widespread dissolution was the temperance movement, which promoted tea as a healthful alternative to alcohol of any sort. From the 1830s many new cafes and coffeehouses opened, as a place to socialise that was not a pub or an inn. Tearooms were also significant since they provided a place where women in the Victorian era could take a meal — without a male escort — without risk to their reputations. Tea rooms catered for all classes of society.\n\nIn 1864, the Aerated Bread Company opened the first of what would grow to be known as A.B.C. Tea Shops. The idea came from a London-based \"manageress\" at ABC \"who'd been serving gratis tea and snacks to customers of all classes, [and] got permission to put a commercial public tearoom on the premises.\" By 1923, the A.B.C. tea shops had 250 branches, second only to J. Lyons and Co.. Lyons Corner Houses started in 1894, and soon became the leading chain of tea rooms; their waitresses were known as \"nippies\" for the speed of their work.\n\nIn 1878 Catherine Cranston opened the first of what became a chain of \"Miss Cranston's Tea Rooms\" in Glasgow, Scotland, providing elegant well-designed social venues which for the first time provided for well-to-do women socialising without male company. They proved widely popular. She engaged up and coming designers, becoming a patron of Charles Rennie Mackintosh. He designed the complete building of the Willow Tearooms, a strikingly modern exterior as well as a series of interesting interior designs. Similar establishments became popular throughout Scotland. As of 2016, the Glasgow Willow Tearooms are being restored.\n\nRoger Fulford argues that tea rooms benefitted women, in that these neutral public spaces were instrumental in the \"spread of independence\" for women and their struggle for the vote. Paul Chrystal characterises tea rooms as \"popular and fashionable, especially with women\", providing the a dignified and safe place to meet and eat, and strategise on political campaigns.\n\nThere is a long tradition of tea rooms within London's hotels. For example, Brown's Hotel has been serving tea for over 170 years From the 1880s fine hotels in both the US and the UK featured tea rooms and tea courts, and by 1910 they had begun to host afternoon tea dances as dance crazes swept both countries.\n\nTea rooms of all kinds were widespread in Britain by the 1950s, but in the following decades cafés became more fashionable, and tea rooms became less common. Nonetheless, there are still plenty of places that offer the opportunity to enjoy afternoon tea, a luxurious light meal of savoury snacks (tea sandwiches) and small pastries. A less formal alternative is a cream tea, particularly popular in the West Country: a scone with jam and clotted cream. Another possibility is the high tea, hot savoury food as the day's final (but relatively early) meal. There are plenty of regional variations: in Scotland, teas are usually served with a scones, pancakes, crumpets and other cakes.\n\nTea rooms can be found in most towns and many villages.\n\nBritish workers by law, have the right to a minimum of a twenty-minute break in a shift of six hours; government guidelines describe this as \"a tea or lunch break\". More informally, this is known as elevenses, i.e. a couple of hours before the midday meal, traditionally served at 11am. Builder's tea in a mug is typical of a quick tea break in the working day.\n\n\"Tea\" is not only the name of the beverage but also of a light meal. Anna Maria, Duchess of Bedford, is credited with its creation, circa 1840, to ward off hunger between luncheon and dinner, as the latter was being served later and later. The notion of cakes or a light meal with tea passed to teahouses or tearooms. While these establishments have declined in popularity since the Second World War, there are still many to be found in the countryside. In the West Country, cream teas are a speciality: scones, clotted cream and jam accompany the drink. Afternoon tea, in contemporary British usage, usually indicates a special occasion, perhaps in a hotel dining room, with savoury snacks (tea sandwiches) as well as small sweet pastries.\n\nA social event to enjoy tea together, usually in a private home, is a tea party.\n\n\"Tea\" (sometimes \"high tea\") can also mean the savoury, hot early evening meal. This usage is common in working-class British English and in Northern England, Scotland, and Northern Ireland). See Tea as the evening meal.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a number of varieties of loose tea sold in packets from the 1940s to the 1980s contained tea cards. These were illustrated cards roughly the same size as cigarette cards and intended to be collected by children. Perhaps the best known were Typhoo tea and Brooke Bond (manufacturer of PG Tips), the latter of whom also provided albums for collectors to keep their cards in. In the brand named \"Brooke Bond Dividend D\", the card was a dividend (\"divvy\") against the cost of the tea.\n\nSome renowned artists were commissioned to illustrate the cards, including Charles Tunnicliffe. Many of these card collections are now valuable collectors' items.\n\nA related phenomenon arose in the early 1990s when PG Tips released a series of tea-based pogs, with pictures of cups of tea and chimpanzees on them. Tetley's tea released competing pogs but never matched the popularity of the PG Tips variety.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18800403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18800403", "title": "Tourism in Bhutan", "text": "Tourism in Bhutan\n\nTourism in Bhutan began in 1974, when the Government of Bhutan, in an effort to raise revenue and to promote Bhutanese unique culture and traditions to the outside world, opened its isolated country to foreigners. In 1974, 287 tourists visited Bhutan. The number of tourists visiting Bhutan increased to 2,850 in 1992, and rose dramatically to 7,158 in 1999. By the late 1980s tourism contributed over US$2 million in annual revenue.\n\nDespite being open to foreigners, the Bhutanese government is acutely aware of the environmental impact tourists can have on Bhutan's unique and virtually unspoiled landscape and culture. Accordingly, they have restricted the level of tourist activity from the start, preferring higher-quality tourism. Until 1991, the Bhutan Tourism Corporation (BTC), a quasi-autonomous and self-financing body, implemented the government's tourism policy. The Bhutanese government, however, privatised the Corporation in October 1991, facilitating private-sector investment and activity. As a result, over 75 licensed tourist companies operate in the country. All tourists (group or individual) must travel on a planned, prepaid, guided package-tour or custom-designed travel-program. Most foreigners cannot travel independently in the kingdom. The arrangements must be made through an officially approved tour operator, either directly or through an overseas agent.\nThe most important centres for tourism are in Bhutan's capital, Thimphu, and in the western city of Paro, near India. Taktshang, a cliff-side monastery (called the \"Tiger's Nest\" in English) overlooking the Paro Valley, is one of the country's attractions. This temple is incredibly sacred to Buddhists. Housed inside the temple is a cave in which the Buddhist Deity who brought Buddhism to Bhutan meditated for 90 days as he battled the demons that inhabited this valley, in order to spread Buddhism. The temple has been standing for well over a thousand years, yet has suffered two fires in which the damage has been repaired. Druk Air used to be the only airline operating flights in Bhutan, however the country is serviced by Bhutan Airlines as well.\n\nPotential visitors to Bhutan obtain visas through a Bhutanese embassy or consulate in their home country.\n\nCountries with huge potential visitors include the Philippines, Australia, Japan, Thailand, Germany, Taiwan, and Canada.\n\nMost visitors arriving to Bhutan on a short term basis were from the following countries of nationality: In 2017, the country saw its highest tourist arrival yet at more than 250,000 people. The growth was boosted by the Asia-Pacific market, notably from India, Thailand, Vietnam, Philippines, Australia, Japan, China, Singapore, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Maldives, and South Korea. Western markets also increased, notably from the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, and France. Majority of 'tourists' that came from China were also classified as 'Tibetan refugees'.\nIn 2012, Bhutan formally listed its tentative sites to the UNESCO World Heritage Centre. It was the first time Bhutan listed its sites to the organization for future inclusion. Eights sites were listed, located in various properties throughout the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34351024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34351024", "title": "Turkana Basin", "text": "Turkana Basin\n\nThe greater Turkana Basin in East Africa (mainly northwestern Kenya and southern Ethiopia, smaller parts of eastern Uganda and southeastern South Sudan) determines a large endorheic basin, a drainage basin with no outflow centered around the north-southwards directed Gregory Rift system in Kenya and southern Ethiopia. The deepest point of the basin is the endorheic Lake Turkana, a brackish Soda lake with a very high ecological productivity in the Gregory Rift. \n\nA narrower definition for the term \"Turkana Basin\" is also in widespread use and means Lake Turkana and its environment within the confines of the Gregory Rift in Kenya and Ethiopia. This includes the lower Omo River valley in Ethiopia. The Basin in the narrower definition is a site of geological subsidence containing one of the most continuous and temporally well controlled fossil records of the Plio-Pleistocene with some fossils as old as the Cretaceous. Among the Basin's critical fossiliferous sites are Lothagam, Allia Bay, and Koobi Fora. \n\nLake Turkana sits at the center of the Turkana Basin and is flanked by the Chalbi Desert to the east, the Lotakipi Plains to the north, Karasuk to the west and Samburu to the south. Included within these regions are desert scrub, desert grass and shrubland, and scattered Acacia or open grasslands. The only true Perennial River is the Omo River in Ethiopia in the northern part of the basin which discharges into the lake on its northern shore and supplies the lake with more than 98% of its annual water inflow. The two Intermittent rivers which almost alone contribute the remaining 2% of water inflow are the Turkwel River and the Kerio River in Kenya in the western part of the basin. Much of the Turkana Basin today can be described as arid scrubland or even desert. The exception is the Omo-Gibe River valley to the north.\n\nImportant towns within the Turkana Basin include Lokitaung, Kakuma, Lodwar, Lorogumu, Ileret and Kargi. The Turkana people inhabit the west of the Basin, the Samburu and Pokot people inhabit the south, and the Nyangatom, Daasanach and Borana Oromo peoples inhabit the north and east. \n\nThe oldest sedimentary records go back to the Cretaceous and are dominated by eastward flowing fluvial sequences draining into the Indian Ocean; later formations from the Oligocene and Miocene are characterised by similar fluvial regimes that are not however unified under a single geological group or system. Approximately 4.2 million years ago (Ma) the region experienced widespread and significant volcanism, associated with the Gombe basalts in the Koobi Fora formation to the east and with the Lothagam basalts further south; this event created a lake in the center of the basin and apparently established the modern, continuous depositional system of the Turkana Basin.\n\nDeposition in the Turkana Basin overall is driven primarily by subsidence, a result of rifting between the Somali and Nubian plates that has created a series of horst and graben structures, and led to approximately 1 km of sedimentary deposits at the center of the basin every 1 million years. Sedimentary records, which become more sparse and discontinuous at greater distance from the basin center, suggest that the basin has alternated between fluvial and lacustrine regimes throughout the Plio-Pleistocene, primarily as a result of continued volcanic activity first to the east, and later to the south of the basin.\n\nFossil records in the basin help establish much of what is known about African faunal evolution in the Neogene and Quaternary. As in other regions, the end-Miocene Messinian aridification crisis and global cooling trend seem to have influenced fossil assemblages in the Turkana Basin, either through migrations or de novo evolutionary events. Fossilized leaves characteristic of more mesic landscapes, faunal community compositions, and increase \"C4\" or arid-adapted plant contribution to herbivore carbon intake, all suggest that the Miocene world was more lush than the Pliocene. Some herbivores, like horses, responded rapidly to the spread of C4 grasslands, while other herbivores evolved more slowly, or developed a number of different responses to an increasingly arid landscape.\n\nEvolutionary studies of the Turkana Basin have found what may be major intervals of faunal turnover after the Miocene as well, most notably in the late Pliocene and early Pleistocene, though later studies have suggested more gradual changes in herbivore community composition throughout this interval. One cause of focus on the late Pliocene and early Pleistocene is the large literature on hominin fossil remains showing an apparent \"adaptive radiation\" across this boundary. While previous hominin species are considered to be part of a single, continuously evolving \"anagenetic\" lineage, hominin fossil remains become extraordinarily diverse in East Africa 2.5 million years ago, with numerous species of robust australopithecine and early human ancestors found first in the Turkana Basin, and ultimately in South Africa as well. The earliest putative evidence for stone tool use among human ancestors is found within the Turkana Basin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15567387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15567387", "title": "Wairau Bar", "text": "Wairau Bar\n\nThe Wairau Bar, or Te Pokohiwi, is a gravel bar formed where the Wairau River meets the sea in Cloudy Bay, Marlborough, north-eastern South Island, New Zealand. It is an important archaeological site, settled by explorers from East Polynesia who arrived in New Zealand about 1280. It is the earliest known human settlement in New Zealand. At the time of the occupation it is believed to have been a low scrub-covered island high, long and wide.\n\nThe site was discovered in 1939 by then schoolboy Jim Eyles who, in 1942, found more artefacts. Early investigations with Roger Duff unearthed a burial site. Bones were scattered and close to the surface. This was originally believed to have been due to ploughing, but work by Bruce McFadgen shows that at some stage, probably between the two periods of occupation, the site was subject to either large storm surge waves or a tsunami which probably contributed to the scattering. Using the techniques of the time about 2000 artefacts and 44 human skeletons were removed and examined in detail. The record seems to show that the partial skeletons of several children were found in shallow graves but these were in such poor condition and scattered that Duff was either unable or unwilling to keep the fragments using the methods of those days. The examination showed that the people were using the same cultural methods as those in eastern Polynesia, particularly the Marquesas Islands. Sixty-nine adzes were found at Wairau Bar, of which only three were made of greenstone. Eighty small, one-piece, triangular, stone or bone fishing lures with lashed unbarbed hook were found.\n\nIn 2009 a more modern analysis by Buckley \"et al\" found the skeletons had a wide range of estimated ages. None of the skeletons were from elderly people. The oldest was 39 and the second oldest was 36. Most of the skeletons were from people aged in their 20s. No children and only 1 teenager's skeleton was found. This is consistent with younger people being buried elsewhere, a practice that was quite common in the South Pacific. There was only one child's skeleton. The 21 skeletons with teeth all exhibited some developmental enamel disorders, showing they had suffered long stressful periods during childhood but survived to reasonably healthy adulthood. Tooth decay was rare, especially amongst males (a similar trait to neolithic people of the Americas (North American Indians). Many of the skeletons showed multiple signs of stress such as Harris lines (on X-rays of long bones such as the tibia) caused by either infection or a poor diet. Tooth wear was substantial among older individuals, with teeth worn to the roots, but this did not seem to be due to bracken fern root chewing. All the adults showed healed bone fractures, indicating a well-balanced diet and a supportive community structure. Several skeletons showed features that are interpreted as being caused by tuberculosis (TB). The presence of TB was yet to be confirmed by DNA analysis in 2010. Anaemia was common, as was arthritis. The average height of the males was and the females . These figures show the early colonisers were tall compared to most Polynesians. The skeletons were all found in shallow graves, with the heads pointing towards the east and the feet to the west, as was the practice in eastern Polynesia. The archaeological layers were shallow.\n\nThe later 2009–2010 study, using more precise modern methods, resulted in the site being more accurately dated by the radiocarbon method to 1288–1300 CE. The site appeared to be occupied twice over a period of about 20 years, which is consistent with information from other early Polynesian colonisation sites in New Zealand. Accurate dates were obtained from moa egg fragments found in grave and midden sites. Buried with the skeletons were moa bone reel necklaces, whole moa eggs (used as water carriers), argillite adze heads, carved serpentine that looked like shark and whale teeth, harpoon heads and tattoo chisels. Few nephrite (jade or greenstone) artefacts were found. It is believed the site was primarily a factory for making stone adze heads. It has been estimated from the adze heads found and the large area of stone flakes that about 12,000 adze heads were made here or about 400 to 500 per year. Argillite,the most common adze head material is hard, compressed mudstone. It is found at D'Urville Island only away from Wairau Bar. A Maori argillite quarry is located in the hills behind Nelson City. Such large numbers of adze heads have implications about trade in the early archaic period. One adze found in the 2009 study has been identified by archaeologist Richard Walter as Tahanga basalt from Tahanga Hill near Opito, a well known moahunter area. It was of quadrangular shape(known as Type 1), identical in design to those use in the Cook Island at the same time. Also found were chert from Kaikoura, which was commonly used for making holes, pumice from the volcanic plateau,which was used as floats and for making small handheld fire bowls and small amounts of greenstone from the West Coast which was made into two adze heads. This indicates that the Wairau Bar moa hunters travelled extensively through New Zealand exploring the land. Adze heads are associated with shaping wood, especially in the making of waka. The stone head was lashed to an L-shaped natural crook and swung so the blade struck the wood more or less horizontally.\n\nAn investigation by a team from Otago University found a huge stone-lined umu or hangi pit (earth oven) deep by across—estimated to be big enough to feed 1000 people by a local Maori familiar with modern hangi. However these large hangi or umu pits were identified in 1968 (in the Kermadecs) by Roger Duff, as being typical Polynesian umu ti. The purpose of the large pit was to cook the taproot of the ti plant. This was a common method of reducing the tuberous root to a sugary pulp. The ti can be cultivated easily but is slow growing. The root is about long by wide, to a point. It is cooked very slowly in an umu for 12 to 24 hours. The plant is usually associated with the far north of New Zealand but may have been grown further south during the warmer climatic period associated with early Polynesian settlement. A geophysics study showed that it was only one of six such pits in a rough horseshoe shape on the edge of a lagoon. The study also showed the site to be much bigger than previously thought—at least and possibly larger as two boundaries have not been accurately plotted. At least 50 percent of the area was intact.\n\nBy 2007 only 2 percent of the site had been scientifically investigated. \"Intact\" skeletons (many minus the head) were found in four groups, with the oldest (1-7) being closer to the sea and at the western end of the site. These have been shown by DNA studies to be people who had lived in East Polynesia. The largest group of skeletons (15-43) were in an area to the east which covered an oval area . These people are believed to be moa hunters who lived their lives in New Zealand, based on bone and teeth DNA analysis. The main habitation area was central,about from the southern lagoon edge. There were three zones of cooking and surface midden debris, all about approximately. The earliest zone was alongside the lagoon and the latter on the ocean side of the island. At the time of the second occupation of the island, the second site was protected from the ocean by a long and narrow boulder bank. There are two adze-making sites—one adjacent to the early occupation zone and the second adjacent to the later burial site. The most intensely studied indicates a right handed person sitting in the porch area of a small whare. They sat in front of a flat stone on a path cobbled with small round rocks, chipping off flakes of argillite with a hammer stone of quartzite. The limited studies done so far indicate a sizeable village. It is apparent that bodies were commonly buried about from the cooking and working zones.\n\nAfter being used for cooking, each umu had subsequently been used as a midden. The bottom layer of the midden showed that at the very earliest occupation time shellfish, such as mussels, were much larger, averaging long. The lower layers of the midden also showed that early moa bones were not smashed to get at the marrow as was common in the upper layers. Whale bones were found in the lower layer. Mainly moa leg bones were found indicating that moa were hunted inland and brought to the site for cooking. Bones from all five moa species located in the upper South Island were found. As well as the remains of numerous butchered moa, seals, porpoises, the extinct Haast's eagle, Eyles' harrier, New Zealand swan and New Zealand raven, kurī (Maori dogs), tuatara, kiore, shellfish such as pipi, paua, cockles, and marine bones from eels, skate, sunfish and sharks were found there. Anderson and Smith in their 1996 study stated that the first colonists enjoyed a sustained assault on the local megafauna.\n\nAt the time of the latest investigation the local Rangitāne Iwi reburied 60 skeletons claimed to be their forebears in a formal ceremony at the lagoon site.\n\nA study of a turret shell artifact completed in 2011 shows a direct link between the Wairau Bar site and East Polynesia. This is only the second artifact found in New Zealand originating from East Polynesia dated to the early Polynesian colonial period.(The other is the early East Polynesian pearl lure found at Tairua identified by A. Powell of Auckland Museum.) The shell tool is a modified spiral gastropod shell. These tools were used as small chisels or gouges,possibly for enlarging holes. The point of the turret shell was removed and the remains honed to a chisel point of about 60 degrees by grinding. Although found in various East Polynesian Islands the most common site by far is Fa'alia, Ruahine, in the Society Islands, where many have been located from the same period. The significance of the find that was dug up 60 years ago was not realised until recently.\n\nDr Lisa Matisoo-Smith and Dr Michael Knapp from New Zealand's Otago University have released the results of a recent bone and teeth DNA study carried out on early Polynesian migrants to New Zealand who lived at Wairau Bar about 1285–1300 AD. The results of DNA analysis reinforce the idea that some these people were original settlers from East Polynesia, as they had a very different diet based on soft starchy food. The two other burial groups showed a very different, more varied diet consistent with being raised in New Zealand. Scientists found that there was a wide range of DNA mutations indicating that settlers were part of a reasonably large group. This indicate a planned migration rather than isolated random groups. One of the mutations was associated with insulin rejection as found in type 2 diabetes This reinforces the mathematical modelling done in the past that shows the same pattern. Work will now begin on tracing East Polynesian populations that have the same DNA mutations in order to discover the specific homelands of the Wairau Bar settlers. The DNA pattern is very similar to that found in the Marquesas Islands in East Polynesia at the same time.\n\n"}
{"id": "38936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38936", "title": "Yankee", "text": "Yankee\n\nThe term \"Yankee\" and its contracted form \"Yank\" have several interrelated meanings, all referring to people from the United States; its various senses depend on the context. Outside the United States, \"Yank\" is used informally to refer to any American, including Southerners. Within Southern American areas, \"Yankee\" is a derisive term which refers to all Northerners, or specifically to those from the region of New England. According to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", it is \"a nickname for a native or inhabitant of New England, or, more widely, of the northern States generally;\" during the American Civil War, it was \"applied by the Confederates to the soldiers of the Federal army.\"\n\nElsewhere in the United States, it largely refers to people from the Northeastern states, but especially those with New England cultural ties, such as descendants of colonial New England settlers, wherever they live. Its sense is sometimes more cultural than geographical, emphasizing the Calvinist Puritan Christian beliefs and traditions of the Congregationalists who brought their culture when they settled outside New England. The speech dialect of Eastern New England English is called \"Yankee\" or \"Yankee dialect\". The informal British and Irish \"Yank\" refers to Americans in general. It is especially popular among Britons and Australians and sometimes carries pejorative overtones.\n\nThe root of the term is uncertain. British General James Wolfe made the earliest recorded use of the word Yankee in 1758 to refer to people from what became the United States. He referred to the New England soldiers under his command as Yankees: \"I can afford you two companies of Yankees, and the more because they are better for ranging and scouting than either work or vigilance\". Later British use of the word often was derogatory, as in a cartoon of 1775 ridiculing \"Yankee\" soldiers. New Englanders themselves employed the word in a neutral sense; the \"Pennamite–Yankee War,\" for example, was a series of clashes in 1769 over land titles in Pennsylvania between \"Yankee\" settlers from Connecticut and \"Pennamite\" settlers from Pennsylvania.\n\nThe meaning of \"Yankee\" has varied over time. In the 18th century, it referred to residents of New England descended from the original English settlers of the region. Mark Twain used the word in this sense the following century in his novel \"A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court\", published in 1889. As early as the 1770s, British people applied the term to any person from the United States. In the 19th century, Americans in the southern United States employed the word in reference to Americans from the northern United States, though not to recent immigrants from Europe. Thus, a visitor to Richmond, Virginia commented in 1818, \"The enterprising people are mostly strangers; Scots, Irish, and especially New England men, or Yankees, as they are called\".\n\nMany etymologies have been suggested for the word \"Yankee\", but modern linguists generally reject theories which suggest that it originated in any Indian languages. This includes a theory purported by a British officer in 1789, who said that it was derived from the Cherokee word \"eankke\" (\"coward\")—despite the fact that no such word existed in the Cherokee language. Another theory surmised that the word was borrowed from the Wyandot pronunciation of the French \"l'anglais\", meaning \"the Englishman\" or \"the English language\", which was sounded as \"Y'an-gee\".\n\nAmerican musicologist Oscar Sonneck debunked a romanticized false etymology in his 1909 work \"Report on \"The Star-Spangled Banner\", \"Hail Columbia\", \"America\", \"Yankee Doodle\"\". He cited a popular theory which claimed that the word came from a tribe who called themselves \"Yankoos\", said to mean \"invincible\". The story claimed that New Englanders had defeated this tribe after a bloody battle, and the remaining \"Yankoo\" Indians transferred their name to the victors—who were \"agreeable to the Indian custom\". Sonneck notes that multiple American writers since 1775 had repeated this story as if it were fact, despite what he perceived to be holes in it. It had never been the tradition of any Indian tribe to transfer their name to other peoples, according to Sonneck, nor had any settlers ever adopted an Indian name to describe themselves. Sonneck concludes by pointing out that there was never a tribe called the \"Yankoos\".\n\nMost linguists look to Dutch language sources, noting the extensive interaction between the colonial Dutch in New Netherland (now largely New York, New Jersey, Delaware, and western Connecticut) and the English in colonial New England (Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and eastern Connecticut). Michael Quinion and Patrick Hanks argue that the term refers to the Dutch feminine diminutive name \"Janneke\" or masculine diminutive name \"Janke\", which would be Anglicized as \"Yankee\" due to the Dutch pronunciation of \"J\" as the English \"Y\". Quinion and Hanks posit that it was \"used as a nickname for a Dutch-speaking American in colonial times\" and could have grown to include non-Dutch colonists, as well. Alternatively, the Dutch given names \"Jan\" () and \"Kees\" () have long been common, and the two are sometimes combined into a single name (e.g., Jan Kees de Jager). Its Anglicized spelling \"Yankee\" could, in this way, have been used to mock Dutch Americans. The chosen name \"Jan Kees\" may have been partly inspired by a dialectal rendition of \"Jan Kaas\" (\"John Cheese\"), the generic nickname that Southern Dutch used for Dutch people living in the North.\n\nThe Online Etymology Dictionary gives its origin as around 1683, when it was applied insultingly to Dutch Americans (especially freebooters) by the English. Linguist Jan de Vries notes that there was mention of a pirate named \"Dutch Yanky\" in the 17th century. \"The Life and Adventures of Sir Launcelot Greaves\" (1760) contains the passage, \"Haul forward thy chair again, take thy berth, and proceed with thy story in a direct course, without yawing like a Dutch yanky.\" It was at some point reappropriated by Dutch settlers of New Amsterdam who started using it against the English colonists of neighboring Connecticut.\n\nAn early use of the term outside the United States was in the creation of Sam Slick the \"Yankee Clockmaker\" in a newspaper column in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada in 1835. The character was a plain-speaking American who becomes an example for Nova Scotians to follow in his industry and practicality; and his uncouth manners and vanity were the epitome of qualities that his creator detested. The character was developed by Thomas Chandler Haliburton, and it grew between 1836 and 1844 in a series of publications.\n\nThe \"damned Yankee\" usage dates from 1812. Confederates popularized it as a derogatory term for their Northern enemies during and after the American Civil War (1861–65). In an old joke, a Southerner alleges, \"I was twenty-one years old before I learned that 'damn' and 'Yankee' were separate words\". In fact, the spelling \"damnyankee\" is not uncommon.\n\nIt became a catch phrase, often used humorously for Yankees visiting the South, as in the mystery novel \"Death of a Damn Yankee: A Laura Fleming Mystery\" (2001) by Toni Kelner. Another popular although facetious saying is that \"a Yankee is someone from the North who visits the South. A damn Yankee is one who moves here.\"\n\nA pervasive influence on the use of the term throughout the years has been the song \"Yankee Doodle\" which was popular during the American Revolutionary War (1775–83), as it was broadly adopted by American patriots following the battles of Lexington and Concord. The song was popular among the British troops, creating a stereotype of the Yankee simpleton who stuck a feather in his cap and thought that he was stylish. Today, \"Yankee Doodle\" is the official state song of Connecticut.\n\nThe term \"Yankee\" now may mean any resident of New England or of any of the Northeastern United States. The original Yankees diffused widely across the northern United States, leaving their imprints in New York, the Upper Midwest, and places as far away as Seattle, San Francisco, and Honolulu. Yankees typically lived in villages consisting of clusters of separate farms. Often they were merchants, bankers, teachers, or professionals. Village life fostered local democracy, best exemplified by the open town meeting form of government which still exists today in New England. Village life also stimulated mutual oversight of moral behavior and emphasized civic virtue. From the New England seaports of Boston, Salem, Providence, and New London, among others, the Yankees built international trade routes, stretching to China by 1800. Much of the profit from trading was reinvested in the textile and machine tools industries.\n\nYankee ingenuity was a worldwide stereotype of inventiveness, technical solutions to practical problems, \"know-how,\" self-reliance, and individual enterprise. The stereotype first appeared in the 19th century. As Mitchell Wilson notes, \"Yankee ingenuity and Yankee git-up-and-go did not exist in colonial days.\"\n\nThe peculiar Yankee became a stock character in standardized comedic venues, especially the widely popular humor magazine \"Yankee Notions\", published in New York City in the years leading up to the American Civil War. The visceral stereotype of the greedy, witch-burning Yankee was developed in the literature of the English-speaking world, epitomized in the character of Brother Jonathan. Burlesques or comedic performances by Yankee impersonators dominated popular theater in the 1800s. The Yankee as an irksome, meddling, and purer-than-thou peddler was a theme appearing in American literature written by Washington Irving (critical of his character Ichabod Crane), James Fenimore Cooper (particularly in his \"The Chainbearer; Or, The Littlepage Manuscript\" series), and Nathaniel Hawthorne (author of the \"Scarlet Letter\"), a copperhead who sought more Christian compassion for sinners and violators of civil laws and held a strong antipathy toward the Puritans.\n\nIn defense, the New Englander embraced the insulting term \"Yankee\". The great majority of Yankees gravitated toward the burgeoning cities of the American Northeast, while wealthy New Englanders also sent ambassadors to frontier communities where they became influential bankers and newspaper printers. Using their influence in positive ways, they introduced the term \"Universal Yankee Nation\" to represent and proselytize their hopes for national and global influence.\n\nIn religion, New England Yankees originally followed the Puritan tradition, as expressed in Congregational churches. Beginning in the late colonial period, many became Presbyterians, Episcopalians, Methodists, Baptists, or, later, Unitarians. Strait-laced 17th-century moralism as derided by novelist Nathaniel Hawthorne faded in the 18th century. The First Great Awakening (under Jonathan Edwards and others) in the mid-18th century and the Second Great Awakening in the early 19th century (under Charles Grandison Finney, among others) emphasized personal piety, revivals, and devotion to civic duty. Theologically, Arminianism replaced the original Calvinism. Horace Bushnell introduced the idea of Christian nurture, through which children would be brought to religion without revivals.\n\nAfter 1800, Yankees spearheaded most reform movements, including those for abolition of slavery, temperance in use of alcohol, increase in women's political rights, and improvement in women's education. Emma Willard and Mary Lyon pioneered in the higher education of women, while Yankees comprised most of the reformers who went South during Reconstruction in the late 1860s to educate the Freedmen.\n\nHistorian John Buenker has examined the worldview of the Yankee settlers in the Midwest:Because they arrived first and had a strong sense of community and mission, Yankees were able to transplant New England institutions, values, and mores, altered only by the conditions of frontier life. They established a public culture that emphasized the work ethic, the sanctity of private property, individual responsibility, faith in residential and social mobility, practicality, piety, public order and decorum, reverence for public education, activists, honest, and frugal government, town meeting democracy, and he believed that there was a public interest that transcends particular and stock ambitions. Regarding themselves as the elect and just in a world rife with sin and corruption, they felt a strong moral obligation to define and enforce standards of community and personal behavior…. This pietistic worldview was substantially shared by British, Scandinavian, Swiss, English-Canadian and Dutch Reformed immigrants, as well as by German Protestants and many of the Forty-Eighters.Yankees dominated New England, much of upstate New York, and much of the upper Midwest, and were the strongest supporters of the new Republican party in the 1860s. This was especially true for the Congregationalists, Presbyterians, and (after 1860) the Methodists among them. A study of 65 predominantly Yankee counties showed that they voted only 40% for the Whigs in 1848 and 1852, but became 61–65% Republican in presidential elections of 1856 through 1864.\n\nIvy League universities remained bastions of old Yankee culture until well after World War II, particularly Harvard and Yale, as well as \"Little Ivy\" liberal arts colleges.\n\nPresident Calvin Coolidge was a striking example of the modern Yankee stereotype. Coolidge moved from rural Vermont to urban Massachusetts and was educated at elite Amherst College. Yet his flint-faced, unprepossessing ways and terse rural speech proved politically attractive. \"That Yankee twang will be worth a hundred thousand votes\", explained one Republican leader. Coolidge's laconic ways and dry humor were characteristic of stereotypical rural \"Yankee humor\" at the turn of the 20th century.\n\nThe fictional Harvard graduate Thurston Howell III of \"Gilligan's Island\" typifies the old Yankee elite in a comical way; the Boston-born \"M*A*S*H\" surgeon character Maj. Charles Emerson Winchester III was more satirical, portrayed by David Ogden Stiers.\n\nBy the beginning of the 21st century, systematic Yankee ways had permeated the entire society through education. Many observers from the 1880s onward predicted that Yankee politicians would be no match for the new generations of ethnic politicians, yet the presence of Yankees at the top tier of modern American politics was typified by presidents George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush, and former Democratic National Committee chairman Howard Dean, as well as losing 2004 Democratic presidential nominee John Forbes Kerry, descendant through his mother of the Scottish Forbes family, which emigrated to Massachusetts in the 1750s.\n\nThe term \"Yankee\" can have many different meanings within the United States that are contextually and geographically dependent. Traditionally, \"Yankee\" was most often used to refer to a New Englander descended from the original settlers of the region, thus often suggesting Puritanism and thrifty values. By the mid-20th century, some speakers applied the word to any American born north of the Mason–Dixon Line, though usually with a specific focus still on New England. \"New England Yankee\" might be used to differentiate. However, within New England itself, the term still refers more specifically to old-stock New Englanders of English descent. For example:\n\nIn the southern United States, the term is used in derisive reference to any Northerner, especially one who has migrated to the South. Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas pointed out as late as 1966, \"The very word 'Yankee' still wakens in Southern minds historical memories of defeat and humiliation, of the burning of Atlanta and Sherman's March to the Sea, or of an ancestral farmhouse burned by Quantrill's Raiders\". Ambrose Bierce defines the term in \"The Devil's Dictionary\" as: \"In Europe, an American. In the Northern States of our Union, a New Englander. In the Southern States the word is unknown. (See DAMNYANK.)\"\n\nE. B. White humorously draws his own distinctions:\n\nMajor League Baseball's New York Yankees acquired the name from journalists after the team moved from Baltimore in 1903, though they were officially known as the Highlanders until 1913. The regional Yankees–Red Sox rivalry can make the utterance of the term \"Yankee\" unwelcome to some fans in New England, especially to the most dedicated Red Sox fans living in the northeastern United States.\n\nThe term \"Swamp Yankee\" is sometimes used in rural Rhode Island, Connecticut, and southeastern Massachusetts to refer to Protestant farmers of moderate means and their descendants (in contrast to richer or urban Yankees); \"swamp Yankee\" is often regarded as a derogatory term. Scholars note that the famous Yankee \"twang\" survives mainly in the hill towns of interior New England, though it is disappearing even there. \n\nMark Twain's novel \"A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court\" popularized the word as a nickname for residents of Connecticut, and Connecticut Air National Guard unit 103d Airlift Wing is nicknamed \"The Flying Yankees.\"\n\nThe shortened form \"Yank\" is used as a derogatory, pejorative, playful, or colloquial term for Americans in Britain, Australia, Canada, South Africa, Ireland, and New Zealand. Depending on the country, \"Yankee\" may be considered mildly derogatory. In Cockney rhyming slang, an American is a \"Septic\" or \"Seppo\", derived from \"Septic Tank\", \"Yank\".\n\nVenezuelan Spanish has the word , derived c 1940 around the oil industry from \"petty yankee\" or \"petit yanqui\", a derogatory term for those who profess an exaggerated and often ridiculous admiration for anything from the United States. In the late 19th century, the Japanese were called \"the Yankees of the East\" in praise of their industriousness and drive to modernization. In Japan, the term \"Yankī\" has been used since the late 1970s to refer to a type of delinquent youth. In Finland, the word \"jenkki\" (yank) is sometimes used to refer to any US citizen, and \"Jenkkilä\" (Yankeeland) refers to the United States itself. It is not considered offensive or anti-American, but rather a colloquial expression.\n\nYankee is the code word for the letter \"Y\" in the NATO phonetic alphabet.\n\n\n\n\n"}
