{"id": "329488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=329488", "title": "Action painting", "text": "Action painting\n\nAction painting, sometimes called \"gestural abstraction\", is a style of painting in which paint is spontaneously dribbled, splashed or smeared onto the canvas, rather than being carefully applied. The resulting work often emphasizes the physical act of painting itself as an essential aspect of the finished work or concern of its artist.\n\nThe style was widespread from the 1940s until the early 1960s, and is closely associated with abstract expressionism (some critics have used the terms \"action painting\" and \"abstract expressionism\" interchangeably). A comparison is often drawn between the American action painting and the French tachisme. The New York School of American Abstract Expressionism (1940s-50s) is also seen as closely linked to the movement.\n\nThe term was coined by the American critic Harold Rosenberg in 1952, in his essay \"The American Action Painters\", \nand signaled a major shift in the aesthetic perspective of New York School painters and critics. According to Rosenberg the canvas was \"an arena in which to act\". The actions and means for creating the painting were seen, in action painting, of a higher importance than the end result. While Rosenberg created the term \"action painting\" in 1952, he began creating his action theory in the 1930s as a critic. While abstract expressionists such as Jackson Pollock, Franz Kline and Willem de Kooning had long been outspoken in their view of a painting as an arena within which to come to terms with the act of creation, earlier critics sympathetic to their cause, like Clement Greenberg, focused on their works' \"objectness.\" Clement Greenberg was also an influential critic in action painting, intrigued by the creative struggle, which he claimed was evidenced by the surface of the painting. To Greenberg, it was the physicality of the paintings' clotted and oil-caked surfaces that was the key to understanding them. \"Some of the labels that became attached to Abstract Expressionism, like \"informel\" and \"Action Painting,\" definitely implied this; one was given to understand that what was involved was an utterly new kind of art that was no longer art in any accepted sense. This was, of course, absurd.\" – Clement Greenberg, \"Post Painterly Abstraction\".\n\nRosenberg's critique shifted the emphasis from the object to the struggle itself, with the finished painting being only the physical manifestation, a kind of residue, of the actual work of art, which was in the act or process of the painting's creation. The newer research tends to put the exile-surrealist Wolfgang Paalen in the position of the artist and theoretician who used the term \"action\" at first in this sense and fostered the theory of the subjective struggle with it. In his theory of the viewer-dependent possibility space, in which the artist \"acts\" like in an ecstatic ritual, Paalen considers ideas of quantum mechanics, as well as idiosyncratic interpretations of the totemic vision and the spatial structure of native-Indian painting from British Columbia. His long essay \"Totem Art\" (1943) had considerable influence on such artists as Martha Graham, Barnett Newman, Isamu Noguchi, Jackson Pollock and Mark Rothko; Paalen describes a highly artistic vision of totemic art as part of a ritual \"action\" with psychic links to genetic memory and matrilinear ancestor-worship.\n\nOver the next two decades, Rosenberg's redefinition of art as an act rather than an object, as a process rather than a product, was influential, and laid the foundation for a number of major art movements, from Happenings and Fluxus to Conceptual, Performance art, Installation art and Earth Art.\n\nIt is essential for the understanding of action painting to place it in historical context. The action painting movement took place in the time after World War II ended. With this came a disordered economy and culture in Europe, and in America the government took advantage of their new state of importance. A product of the post-World War II artistic resurgence of expressionism in America and more specifically New York City, action painting developed in an era where quantum mechanics and psychoanalysis were beginning to flourish and were changing people's perception of the physical and psychological world; and civilization's understanding of the world through heightened self-consciousness and awareness.\n\nAmerican action painters pondered the nature of art as well as the reasons for the existence of art often when questioning what the value of action painting is. The preceding art of Kandinsky and Mondrian had freed itself from the portrayal of objects and instead tried to evoke, address and delineate, through the aesthetic sense, emotions and feelings within the viewer. \"Action painting\" took this a step further, using both Jung and Freud’s ideas of the subconscious as its underlying foundations. Many of the painters were interested in Carl Jung's studies of archetypal images and types, and used their own internal visions to create their paintings. Along with Jung, Sigmund Freud and Surrealism were also influential to the beginning of action painting. The paintings of the Action painters were not meant to portray objects per se or even specific emotions. Instead they were meant to touch the observer deep in the subconscious mind, evoking a sense of the primeval and tapping the collective sense of an archetypal visual language. This was done by the artist painting \"unconsciously,\" and spontaneously, creating a powerful arena of raw emotion and action, in the moment. Action painting was clearly influenced by the surrealist emphasis on automatism which (also) influenced by psychoanalysis claimed a more direct access to the subconscious mind. Important exponents of this concept of art making were the painters Joan Miró and André Masson. However the action painters took everything the surrealists had done a step further.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24177090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24177090", "title": "Adnan Oktar bibliography", "text": "Adnan Oktar bibliography\n\nFollowing is a list of books written by Turkish author Adnan Oktar (born February 2, 1956), also known by the pen name Harun Yahya. Oktar is an advocate of Islamic creationism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46846904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46846904", "title": "Amarna letter EA 245", "text": "Amarna letter EA 245\n\nAmarna letter EA 245, titled: \"Assignment of Guilt,\" is a medium length clay tablet Amarna letter from Biridiya the governor-'mayor' of Magidda. It is letter number four of five from Biridiya.\n\nThe letter is in pristine condition except for a missing flake (lower-right, obverse) causing a lacuna at the end of a few lines. The cuneiform characters are finely inscribed, with some photos that can even show the individual strokes of the cuneiform characters (the stroke sequence). The letter is 47-lines long, and about 5-in tall. Letter EA 245 (see here-(Obverse): ), is numbered BM 29855, at the British Museum.\n\nThe Amarna letters, about 300, numbered up to EA 382, are a mid 14th century BC, about 1350 BC and 20–25 years later, correspondence. The initial corpus of letters were found at Akhenaten's city Akhetaten, in the floor of the Bureau of Correspondence of Pharaoh; others were later found, adding to the body of letters.\n\nEA 245, letter four of five. (Not a linear, line-by-line translation, and English from French.)\n\nThe Akkadian language text:\n\nAkkadian:\n\n\"Obverse\" (see here: )\n\n\"Reverse\" (see here: )\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "200383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200383", "title": "Anzio", "text": "Anzio\n\nAnzio is a city and \"comune\" on the coast of the Lazio region of Italy, about south of Rome.\n\nWell known for its seaside harbour setting, it is a fishing port and a departure point for ferries and hydroplanes to the Pontine Islands of Ponza, Palmarola and Ventotene. The city bears great historical significance as the site of Operation \"Shingle\", a crucial landing by the Allies during the Italian Campaign of World War II.\n\nAnzio occupies a part of the ancient Antium territory. In ancient times, Antium was the capital of the Volsci people until it was conquered by the Romans. In some versions of Rome's foundation myth, Antium was founded by Anteias, son of Odysseus.\n\nIn 493 BC the Roman consul Postumus Cominius Auruncus fought and defeated two armies from Antium, and as a result captured the Volscian towns of Longula, Pollusca and Corioli (to the north of Antium).\n\nIn 468 BC Antium was captured by the Roman consul Titus Quinctius Capitolinus Barbatus following a war started by the Volsci, and a Roman colony was planted there the next year. Three Roman ex-consuls were appointed as commissioners to allocate the lands (triumviri coloniae deducendae) amongst Roman colonists. They were Titus Quinctius, the consul of the previous year who had captured Antium from the Volsci; Aulus Verginius Tricostus Caeliomontanus the consul of 469 BC; and Publius Furius Medullinus Fusus the consul of 472 BC.\n\nIn 464 BC the Antiates were suspected of allying with the Aequi against Rome. The chief men of Antium were summoned to Rome however they gave adequate explanations. Antium was asked to contribute emergency troops for the Roman war against the Aequi, however the force of 1,000 troops from Antium arrived too late to help.\n\nWith the expansion of Rome it was just far enough away to be insulated from the riots and tumults of Rome. Leading Romans built magnificent seaside villas there and when Cicero returned from exile, it was at Antium that he reassembled the battered remains of his libraries, where the scrolls would be secure. Remains of Roman villas are conspicuous all along the shore, both to the east and to the north-west of the town. Gaius Maecenas also had a villa. Many ancient masterpieces of sculpture have been found there: the \"Fanciulla d'Anzio\", the \"Borghese Gladiator\" (in the Louvre) and the \"Apollo Belvedere\" (in the Vatican) were all discovered in the ruins of villas at Antium.\n\nOf the villas, the most famous was the imperial villa, known as the Villa of Nero, which was used by each Emperor in turn, up to the Severans and which extended some along the seafront of the Capo d'Anzio. Augustus received a delegation from Rome there to acclaim him \"Pater patriae\" (\"Father of his Country\"). The Julian and Claudian emperors frequently visited it; both Emperor Caligula and Nero were born in Antium. Nero razed the villa on the site to rebuild it on a more massive and imperial scale including a theatre. Nero also founded a colony of veterans and built a new harbour, the projecting moles of which still exist.\n\nOf the famous temple of Fortune (Horace, \"Od\". i. 35) no remains are known.\n\nThere are records of the participation of a few bishops of Antium in synods held in Rome: Gaudentius in 465, Felix in 487, Vindemius in 499 and 501. Barbarian incursions in the 6th century put an end to its existence as a residential bishopric. Accordingly, Antium is today listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see.\n\nIn the Middle Ages Antium was deserted in favour of Nettuno, which maintained the legacy of the ancient city. At the end of the 17th century Innocent XII and Clement XI restored the harbour, not on the old site but to the east of it, with the opening to the east, a mistake which leads to its being frequently silted up; it has a depth of about . The sea is encroaching slightly at Anzio, but some kilometres farther north-west the old Roman coast-line now lies slightly inland (see Tiber). The Volscian Antium stood on higher ground and somewhat away from the shore, though it extended down to it. This was defended by a deep ditch, which can still be traced, and by walls, a portion of which, on the eastern side, constructed of rectangular blocks of tufa, was brought to light in 1897.\nIn 1857 Pope Pius IX founded the modern municipality (\"comune\") of Anzio, with the boundaries of Nettuno being redrawn to accommodate the new town.\n\nAnzio and Nettuno are also notable as sites of an Allied forces landing and the ensuing Battle of Anzio during World War II. The Commonwealth Anzio War Cemetery and Beach Head War Cemetery are located here.\n\nIn February 1944 American soldiers (the U.S. Fifth Army) were surrounded by Germans in the caves of Pozzoli for a week, suffering heavy casualties. A film based on the events called \"Anzio\" (1968, directed by Edward Dmytryk) was made, starring Robert Mitchum and based on a book by Wynford Vaughan-Thomas.\n\nOn 18 February 1944, the British light cruiser was struck by two torpedoes off the coast of Anzio and sunk with a loss of 417 crew.\n\nIn the same region Lieutenant Eric Fletcher Waters of the British Army lost his life in battle while serving as a member of the 8th Battalion, Royal Fusiliers (City of London Regiment), part of the 167th (London) Infantry Brigade of the 56th (London) Infantry Division which fought at Anzio for nearly six weeks. His son, Roger Waters, became the bassist and main lyricist of progressive rock band, Pink Floyd. In his honour and remembrance Roger Waters recorded the song \"The Fletcher Memorial Home\", which is the maiden name of Eric Waters' mother. (Also see \"When the Tigers Broke Free\".)\n\nAlong the coast are numerous remains of Roman villas. One, the \"Domus Neroniana\", has been identified as a residence of Nero.\n\nIn Anzio can be found the Anzio Beachhead British Military Cemetery and a Beachhead Museum.\nThe Sicily-Rome American Cemetery and Memorial is in nearby Nettuno.\n\nAbout north of the town there is a WWF park with sulphur springs and a medieval tower, Tor Caldara.\n\nNear the ruins of the Villa of Nero, in scenic position near the beach, lies the military sanatorium of the Italian army, one of the most important works of Florestano Di Fausto, built in 1930–33.\n\nAll along the coast a large number of beaches and sea resorts can be found, including hotels and the famous fish restaurants of the port of Anzio. The city once hosted a Casino called Paradiso sul mare that is no longer active and now hosts cultural events. In the southern part of the town, close to the border with Nettuno, are many Italian art nouveau style houses.\n\nAnzio is connected to Rome by the Via Nettunense (SS207), the Via Ardeatina (SS601) and by the Roma-Nettuno railway that connects Anzio with Roma Termini in around 1 hour. The railway line also stops in the stations of Padiglione, Lido di Lavinio, Villa Claudia, Marechiaro, Anzio Colonia to the north of Anzio.\n\nFerries and hydrofoils connect Anzio to Ponza.\n\nAnzio is twinned with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21722730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21722730", "title": "Arab-Ata Mausoleum", "text": "Arab-Ata Mausoleum\n\nThe Arab-Ata mausoleum is located in the village of Tim, Samarqand Region, Uzbekistan.\n\nBuilt on top of a \"tepa\", or triangular-shaped hill, in the 10th Century, the mausoleum fills an important gap in understanding the evolution of mausoleum architecture in Central Asia.\nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on January 18, 2008 in the Cultural category.\n\n"}
{"id": "150184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=150184", "title": "Ashkenazi Jews", "text": "Ashkenazi Jews\n\nAshkenazi Jews, also known as Ashkenazic Jews or simply Ashkenazim (, , singular: , ; also \"\"), are a Jewish diaspora population who coalesced in the Holy Roman Empire around the end of the first millennium.\n\nThe traditional diaspora language of Ashkenazi Jews is Yiddish (a Germanic language with elements of Hebrew and Aramaic), developed after they had moved into northern Europe: beginning with Germany and France in the Middle Ages. For centuries they used Hebrew only as a sacred language, until the revival of Hebrew as a common language in Israel. Throughout their time in Europe, Ashkenazim have made many important contributions to its philosophy, scholarship, literature, art, music and science.\n\nThe term \"Ashkenazi\" refers to Jewish settlers who established communities along the Rhine River in Western Germany and in Northern France dating to the Middle Ages. Once there, they adapted traditions carried from Babylon, The Holy Land, and the Western Mediterranean to their new environment. The Ashkenazi religious rite developed in cities such as Mainz, Worms, and Troyes. The eminent French \"Rishon\" Rabbi Shlomo Itzhaki (Rashi) would have a significant influence on the Jewish religion.\n\nIn the late Middle Ages, due to religious persecution, the majority of the Ashkenazi population shifted steadily eastward, moving out of the Holy Roman Empire into the areas later part of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth (comprising parts of present-day Belarus, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Poland, Russia, and Ukraine). In the course of the late 18th and 19th centuries, those Jews who remained in or returned to the German lands generated a cultural reorientation; under the influence of the Haskalah and the struggle for emancipation, as well as the intellectual and cultural ferment in urban centers, they gradually abandoned the use of Yiddish and adopted German, while developing new forms of Jewish religious life and cultural identity.\n\nThe Holocaust of the Second World War decimated the Ashkenazim, affecting almost every Jewish family. It is estimated that in the 11th century Ashkenazi Jews composed three percent of the world's total Jewish population, while an estimate made in 1930 (near the population's peak) had them as 92 percent of the world's Jews. Immediately prior to the Holocaust, the number of Jews in the world stood at approximately 16.7 million. Statistical figures vary for the contemporary demography of Ashkenazi Jews, ranging from 10 million to 11.2 million. Sergio Della Pergola in a rough calculation of Sephardic and Mizrahi Jews, implies that Ashkenazi Jews make up less than 74% of Jews worldwide. Other estimates place Ashkenazi Jews as making up about 75% of Jews worldwide.\n\nGenetic studies on Ashkenazim—researching both their paternal and maternal lineages—suggest a predominant amount of shared Middle Eastern ancestry, complemented by varying percentages of European admixture. These studies have arrived at diverging conclusions regarding both the degree and the sources of their European ancestry, and have generally focused on the extent of the European genetic origin observed in Ashkenazi maternal lineages. Ashkenazi Jews are popularly contrasted with Sephardi Jews (also called Sephardim), who descend from Jews who settled in the Iberian Peninsula, and Mizrahi Jews, who descend from Jews who remained in the Middle East.\n\nThe name \"Ashkenazi\" derives from the biblical figure of Ashkenaz, the first son of Gomer, son of Japhet, son of Noah, and a Japhetic patriarch in the Table of Nations ().\nThe name of Gomer has often been linked to the ethnonym Cimmerians.\nBiblical \"Ashkenaz\" is usually derived from Assyrian \"Aškūza\" (cuneiform \"Aškuzai/Iškuzai\"), a people who expelled the Cimmerians from the Armenian area of the Upper Euphrates, whose name is usually associated with the name of the Scythians.\nThe intrusive \"n\" in the Biblical name is likely due to a scribal error confusing a \"vav\" ו with a \"nun\" נ.\n\nIn Jeremiah 51:27, Ashkenaz figures as one of three kingdoms in the far north, the others being Minni and Ararat, perhaps corresponding to Urartu, called on by God to resist Babylon.\n\nIn the Yoma tractate of the Babylonian Talmud the name Gomer is rendered as \"Germania\", which elsewhere in rabbinical literature was identified with Germanikia in northwestern Syria, but later became associated with \"Germania\".\nAshkenaz is linked to Scandza/Scanzia, viewed as the cradle of Germanic tribes, as early as a 6th-century gloss to the Historia Ecclesiastica of Eusebius.\nIn the 10th-century \"History of Armenia\" of Yovhannes Drasxanakertc'i (1.15) Ashkenaz was associated with Armenia, as it was occasionally in Jewish usage, where its denotation extended at times to Adiabene, Khazaria, Crimea and areas to the east. His contemporary Saadia Gaon identified Ashkenaz with the \"Saquliba\" or Slavic territories, and such usage covered also the lands of tribes neighboring the Slavs, and Eastern and Central Europe. In modern times, Samuel Krauss identified the Biblical \"Ashkenaz\" with Khazaria.\n\nSometime in the early medieval period, the Jews of central and eastern Europe came to be called by this term. Conforming to the custom of designating areas of Jewish settlement with biblical names, Spain was denominated \"Sefarad\" (Obadiah 20), France was called \"Tsarefat\" (1 Kings 17:9), and Bohemia was called the \"Land of Canaan\".\nBy the high medieval period, Talmudic commentators like Rashi began to use \"Ashkenaz/Eretz Ashkenaz\" to designate Germany, earlier known as \"Loter\", where, especially in the Rhineland communities of Speyer, Worms and Mainz, the most important Jewish communities arose. Rashi uses \"leshon Ashkenaz\" (Ashkenazi language) to describe German speech, and Byzantium and Syrian Jewish letters referred to the Crusaders as Ashkenazim. Given the close links between the Jewish communities of France and Germany following the Carolingian unification, the term Ashkenazi came to refer to both the Jews of medieval Germany and France.\n\nOutside of their origins in ancient Israel, the history of Ashkenazim is shrouded in mystery, and many theories have arisen speculating on their emergence as a distinct community of Jews. The best supported theory is the one that details a Jewish migration from Israel through what is now Italy and other parts of southern Europe. The historical record attests to Jewish communities in southern Europe since pre-Christian times. Many Jews were denied full Roman citizenship until Emperor Caracalla granted all free peoples this privilege in 212. Jews were required to pay a poll tax until the reign of Emperor Julian in 363. In the late Roman Empire, Jews were free to form networks of cultural and religious ties and enter into various local occupations. But, after Christianity became the official religion of Rome and Constantinople in 380, Jews were increasingly marginalized.\n\nThe history of Jews in Greece goes back to at least the Archaic Era of Greece, when the classical culture of Greece was undergoing a process of formalization after the Greek Dark Age. The Greek historian Herodotus knew of the Jews, whom he called \"Palestinian Syrians\", and listed them among the levied naval forces in service of the invading Persians. While Jewish monotheism was not deeply affected by Greek Polytheism, the Greek way of living was attractive for many wealthier Jews. The Synagogue in the Agora of Athens is dated to the period between 267 and 396 CE. The Stobi Synagogue in Macedonia, was built on the ruins of a more ancient synagogue in the 4th century, while later in the 5th century, the synagogue was transformed into a Christian basilica. Hellenistic Judaism thrived in Antioch and Alexandria, many of these Greek-speaking Jews would convert to Christianity.\nSporadic epigraphic evidence in grave site excavations, particularly in Brigetio (Szőny), Aquincum (Óbuda), Intercisa (Dunaújváros), Triccinae (Sárvár), Savaria (Szombathely), Sopianae (Pécs) in Hungary, and Mursa (Osijek) in Croatia, attest to the presence of Jews after the 2nd and 3rd centuries where Roman garrisons were established, There was a sufficient number of Jews in Pannonia to form communities and build a synagogue. Jewish troops were among the Syrian soldiers transferred there, and replenished from the Middle East, after 175 CE Jews and especially Syrians came from Antioch, Tarsus and Cappadocia. Others came from Italy and the Hellenized parts of the Roman empire. The excavations suggest they first lived in isolated enclaves attached to Roman legion camps and intermarried with other similar oriental families within the military orders of the region. Raphael Patai states that later Roman writers remarked that they differed little in either customs, manner of writing, or names from the people among whom they dwelt; and it was especially difficult to differentiate Jews from the Syrians. After Pannonia was ceded to the Huns in 433, the garrison populations were withdrawn to Italy, and only a few, enigmatic traces remain of a possible Jewish presence in the area some centuries later. No evidence has yet been found of a Jewish presence in antiquity in Germany beyond its Roman border, nor in Eastern Europe. In Gaul and Germany itself, with the possible exception of Trier and Cologne, the archeological evidence suggests at most a fleeting presence of very few Jews, primarily itinerant traders or artisans.\n\nEstimating the number of Jews in Antiquity is a task fraught with peril due to the nature of and lack of accurate documentation. The number of Jews in the Roman Empire for a long time was based on the accounts of Syrian Orthodox bishop Bar Hebraeus who lived between 1226 and 1286 CE, who stated by the time of the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE, as many as six million Jews were already living in the Roman Empire, a conclusion which has been contested as highly exaggerated. The 13th-century author Bar Hebraeus gave a figure of 6,944,000 Jews in the Roman world. Salo Wittmayer Baron considered the figure convincing. The figure of seven million within and one million outside the Roman world in the mid-first century became widely accepted, including by Louis Feldman. However, contemporary scholars now accept that Bar Hebraeus based his figure on a census of total Roman citizens and thus, included non-Jews. The figure of 6,944,000 being recorded in Eusebius' Chronicon. Louis Feldman, previously an active supporter of the figure, now states that he and Baron were mistaken. Philo gives a figure of one million Jews living in Egypt. John R. Bartlett rejects Baron's figures entirely, arguing that we have no clue as to the size of the Jewish demographic in the ancient world. The Romans did not distinguish between Jews inside and outside of the Land of Israel/Judaea. They collected an annual temple tax from Jews both in and outside of Israel. The revolts in and suppression of diaspora communities in Egypt, Libya and Crete in 115–117 CE had a severe impact on the Jewish diaspora.\n\nA substantial Jewish population emerged in northern Gaul by the Middle Ages, but Jewish communities existed in 465 CE in Brittany, in 524 CE in Valence, and in 533 CE in Orleans. Throughout this period and into the early Middle Ages, some Jews assimilated into the dominant Greek and Latin cultures, mostly through conversion to Christianity. King Dagobert I of the Franks expelled the Jews from his Merovingian kingdom in 629. Jews in former Roman territories faced new challenges as harsher anti-Jewish Church rulings were enforced.\n\nCharlemagne's expansion of the Frankish empire around 800, including northern Italy and Rome, brought on a brief period of stability and unity in Francia. This created opportunities for Jewish merchants to settle again north of the Alps. Charlemagne granted the Jews freedoms similar to those once enjoyed under the Roman Empire. In addition, Jews from southern Italy, fleeing religious persecution, began to move into central Europe. Returning to Frankish lands, many Jewish merchants took up occupations in finance and commerce, including money lending, or usury. (Church legislation banned Christians from lending money in exchange for interest.) From Charlemagne's time to the present, Jewish life in northern Europe is well documented. By the 11th century, when Rashi of Troyes wrote his commentaries, Jews in what came to be known as \"Ashkenaz\" were known for their halakhic learning, and Talmudic studies. They were criticized by Sephardim and other Jewish scholars in Islamic lands for their lack of expertise in Jewish jurisprudence (\"dinim\") and general ignorance of Hebrew linguistics and literature. Yiddish emerged as a result of Judeo-Latin language contact with various High German vernaculars in the medieval period. It is a Germanic language written in Hebrew letters, and heavily influenced by Hebrew and Aramaic, with some elements of Romance and later Slavic languages.\n\nHistorical records show evidence of Jewish communities north of the Alps and Pyrenees as early as the 8th and 9th century. By the 11th century Jewish settlers, moving from southern European and Middle Eastern centers, appear to have begun to settle in the north, especially along the Rhine, often in response to new economic opportunities and at the invitation of local Christian rulers. Thus Baldwin V, Count of Flanders, invited Jacob ben Yekutiel and his fellow Jews to settle in his lands; and soon after the Norman Conquest of England, William the Conqueror likewise extended a welcome to continental Jews to take up residence there. Bishop Rüdiger Huzmann called on the Jews of Mainz to relocate to Speyer. In all of these decisions, the idea that Jews had the know-how and capacity to jump-start the economy, improve revenues, and enlarge trade seems to have played a prominent role. Typically Jews relocated close to the markets and churches in town centres, where, though they came under the authority of both royal and ecclesiastical powers, they were accorded administrative autonomy.\n\nIn the 11th century, both Rabbinic Judaism and the culture of the Babylonian Talmud that underlies it became established in southern Italy and then spread north to Ashkenaz.\n\nNumerous massacres of Jews occurred throughout Europe during the Christian Crusades. Inspired by the preaching of a First Crusade, crusader mobs in France and Germany perpetrated the Rhineland massacres of 1096, devastating Jewish communities along the Rhine River, including the SHuM cities of Speyer, Worms, and Mainz. The cluster of cities contain the earliest Jewish settlements north of the Alps, and played a major role in the formation of Ashkenazi Jewish religious tradition, along with Troyes and Sens in France. Nonetheless Jewish life in Germany persisted, while some Ashkenazi Jews joined Sephardic Jewry in Spain. Expulsions from England (1290), France (1394), and parts of Germany (15th century), gradually pushed Ashkenazi Jewry eastward, to Poland (10th century), Lithuania (10th century), and Russia (12th century). Over this period of several hundred years, some have suggested, Jewish economic activity was focused on trade, business management, and financial services, due to several presumed factors: Christian European prohibitions restricting certain activities by Jews, preventing certain financial activities (such as \"usurious\" loans) between Christians, high rates of literacy, near universal male education, and ability of merchants to rely upon and trust family members living in different regions and countries.\nBy the 15th century, the Ashkenazi Jewish communities in Poland were the largest Jewish communities of the Diaspora. This area, which eventually fell under the domination of Russia, Austria, and Prussia (Germany), would remain the main center of Ashkenazi Jewry until the Holocaust.\n\nThe answer to why there was so little assimilation of Jews in central and eastern Europe for so long would seem to lie in part in the probability that the alien surroundings in central and eastern Europe were not conducive, though there was some assimilation. Furthermore, Jews lived almost exclusively in shtetls, maintained a strong system of education for males, heeded rabbinic leadership, and had a very different lifestyle to that of their neighbours; and all of these tendencies increased with every outbreak of antisemitism.\n\nIn the first half of the 11th century, Hai Gaon refers to questions that had been addressed to him from Ashkenaz, by which he undoubtedly means Germany. \"Rashi\" in the latter half of the 11th century refers to both the language of Ashkenaz and the country of Ashkenaz. During the 12th century, the word appears quite frequently. In the \"Mahzor Vitry\", the kingdom of Ashkenaz is referred to chiefly in regard to the ritual of the synagogue there, but occasionally also with regard to certain other observances.\n\nIn the literature of the 13th century, references to the land and the language of Ashkenaz often occur. Examples include Solomon ben Aderet's Responsa (vol. i., No. 395); the Responsa of Asher ben Jehiel (pp. 4, 6); his \"Halakot\" (Berakot i. 12, ed. Wilna, p. 10); the work of his son Jacob ben Asher, \"Tur Orach Chayim\" (chapter 59); the Responsa of Isaac ben Sheshet (numbers 193, 268, 270).\n\nIn the \"Midrash\" compilation, \"Genesis Rabbah\", Rabbi Berechiah mentions Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah as German tribes or as German lands. It may correspond to a Greek word that may have existed in the Greek dialect of the Jews in Syria Palaestina, or the text is corrupted from \"Germanica\". This view of Berechiah is based on the Talmud (Yoma 10a; Jerusalem Talmud Megillah 71b), where Gomer, the father of Ashkenaz, is translated by \"Germamia\", which evidently stands for Germany, and which was suggested by the similarity of the sound.\n\nIn later times, the word Ashkenaz is used to designate southern and western Germany, the ritual of which sections differs somewhat from that of eastern Germany and Poland. Thus the prayer-book of Isaiah Horowitz, and many others, give the piyyutim according to the Minhag of Ashkenaz and Poland.\n\nAccording to 16th-century mystic Rabbi Elijah of Chelm, Ashkenazi Jews lived in Jerusalem during the 11th century. The story is told that a German-speaking Jew saved the life of a young German man surnamed Dolberger. So when the knights of the First Crusade came to siege Jerusalem, one of Dolberger's family members who was among them rescued Jews in Palestine and carried them back to Worms to repay the favor. Further evidence of German communities in the holy city comes in the form of halakhic questions sent from Germany to Jerusalem during the second half of the 11th century.\n\nMaterial relating to the history of German Jews has been preserved in the communal accounts of certain communities on the Rhine, a \"Memorbuch\", and a \"Liebesbrief\", documents that are now part of the Sassoon Collection. Heinrich Graetz has also added to the history of German Jewry in modern times in the abstract of his seminal work, \"History of the Jews\", which he entitled \"Volksthümliche Geschichte der Juden.\"\n\nIn an essay on Sephardi Jewry, Daniel Elazar at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs summarized the demographic history of Ashkenazi Jews in the last thousand years, noting that at the end of the 11th century, 97% of world Jewry was Sephardic and 3% Ashkenazi; by the end of the 16th century, the: 'Treaty on the redemption of captives', by Gracian of the God's Mother, Mercy Priest, who was imprisoned by Turks, cites a Tunisian Hebrew, made captive when arriving to Gaeta, who aided others with money, named: 'Simon Escanasi', in the mid-17th century, \"Sephardim still outnumbered Ashkenazim three to two\", but by the end of the 18th century, \"Ashkenazim outnumbered Sephardim three to two, the result of improved living conditions in Christian Europe versus the Ottoman Muslim world.\" By 1930, Arthur Ruppin estimated that Ashkenazi Jews accounted for nearly 92% of world Jewry. These factors are sheer demography showing the migration patterns of Jews from Southern and Western Europe to Central and Eastern Europe.\n\nIn 1740 a family from Lithuania became the first Ashkenazi Jews to settle in the Jewish Quarter of Jerusalem.\n\nIn the generations after emigration from the west, Jewish communities in places like Poland, Russia, and Belarus enjoyed a comparatively stable socio-political environment. A thriving publishing industry and the printing of hundreds of biblical commentaries precipitated the development of the Hasidic movement as well as major Jewish academic centers. After two centuries of comparative tolerance in the new nations, massive westward emigration occurred in the 19th and 20th centuries in response to pogroms in the east and the economic opportunities offered in other parts of the world. Ashkenazi Jews have made up the majority of the American Jewish community since 1750.\n\nIn the context of the European Enlightenment, Jewish emancipation began in 18th century France and spread throughout Western and Central Europe. Disabilities that had limited the rights of Jews since the Middle Ages were abolished, including the requirements to wear distinctive clothing, pay special taxes, and live in ghettos isolated from non-Jewish communities, and the prohibitions on certain professions. Laws were passed to integrate Jews into their host countries, forcing Ashkenazi Jews to adopt family names (they had formerly used patronymics). Newfound inclusion into public life led to cultural growth in the \"Haskalah\", or Jewish Enlightenment, with its goal of integrating modern European values into Jewish life. As a reaction to increasing antisemitism and assimilation following the emancipation, Zionism was developed in central Europe. Other Jews, particularly those in the Pale of Settlement, turned to socialism. These tendencies would be united in Labor Zionism, the founding ideology of the State of Israel.\n\nOf the estimated 8.8 million Jews living in Europe at the beginning of World War II, the majority of whom were Ashkenazi, about 6 million – more than two-thirds – were systematically murdered in the Holocaust. These included 3 million of 3.3 million Polish Jews (91%); 900,000 of 1.5 million in Ukraine (60%); and 50–90% of the Jews of other Slavic nations, Germany, Hungary, and the Baltic states, and over 25% of the Jews in France. Sephardi communities suffered similar depletions in a few countries, including Greece, the Netherlands and the former Yugoslavia.\nAs the large majority of the victims were Ashkenazi Jews, their percentage dropped from an estimate of 92% of world Jewry in made in 1930 to nearly 80% of world Jewry today. The Holocaust also effectively put an end to the dynamic development of the Yiddish language in the previous decades, as the vast majority of the Jewish victims of the Holocaust, around 5 million, were Yiddish speakers. Many of the surviving Ashkenazi Jews emigrated to countries such as Israel, Canada, Argentina, Australia, and the United States after the war.\n\nFollowing the Holocaust, some sources place Ashkenazim today as making up approximately 83–85 percent of Jews worldwide, while Sergio DellaPergola in a rough calculation of Sephardic and Mizrahi Jews, implies that Ashkenazi make up a notably lower figure, less than 74%. Other estimates place Ashkenazi Jews as making up about 75% of Jews worldwide.\n\nIn Israel, the term \"Ashkenazi\" is now used in a manner unrelated to its original meaning, often applied to all Jews who settled in Europe and sometimes including those whose ethnic background is actually Sephardic. Jews of any non-Ashkenazi background, including Mizrahi, Yemenite, Kurdish and others who have no connection with the Iberian Peninsula, have similarly come to be lumped together as Sephardic. Jews of mixed background are increasingly common, partly because of intermarriage between Ashkenazi and non-Ashkenazi, and partly because many do not see such historic markers as relevant to their life experiences as Jews.\n\nReligious Ashkenazi Jews living in Israel are obliged to follow the authority of the chief Ashkenazi rabbi in halakhic matters. In this respect, a religiously Ashkenazi Jew is an Israeli who is more likely to support certain religious interests in Israel, including certain political parties. These political parties result from the fact that a portion of the Israeli electorate votes for Jewish religious parties; although the electoral map changes from one election to another, there are generally several small parties associated with the interests of religious Ashkenazi Jews. The role of religious parties, including small religious parties that play important roles as coalition members, results in turn from Israel's composition as a complex society in which competing social, economic, and religious interests stand for election to the Knesset, a unicameral legislature with 120 seats.\n\nAshkenazi Jews have played a prominent role in the economy, media, and politics of Israel since its founding. During the first decades of Israel as a state, strong cultural conflict occurred between Sephardic and Ashkenazi Jews (mainly east European Ashkenazim). The roots of this conflict, which still exists to a much smaller extent in present-day Israeli society, are chiefly attributed to the concept of the \"melting pot\". That is to say, all Jewish immigrants who arrived in Israel were strongly encouraged to \"melt down\" their own particular exilic identities within the general social \"pot\" in order to become Israeli.\n\nThe Ashkenazi Chief Rabbis in the Yishuv and Israel include:\n\nReligious Jews have Minhagim, customs, in addition to Halakha, or religious law, and different interpretations of law. Different groups of religious Jews in different geographic areas historically adopted different customs and interpretations. On certain issues, Orthodox Jews are required to follow the customs of their ancestors, and do not believe they have the option of picking and choosing. For this reason, observant Jews at times find it important for religious reasons to ascertain who their household's religious ancestors are in order to know what customs their household should follow. These times include, for example, when two Jews of different ethnic background marry, when a non-Jew converts to Judaism and determines what customs to follow for the first time, or when a lapsed or less observant Jew returns to traditional Judaism and must determine what was done in his or her family's past. In this sense, \"Ashkenazic\" refers both to a family ancestry and to a body of customs binding on Jews of that ancestry. Reform Judaism, which does not necessarily follow those minhagim, did nonetheless originate among Ashkenazi Jews.\n\nIn a religious sense, an Ashkenazi Jew is any Jew whose family tradition and ritual follows Ashkenazi practice. Until the Ashkenazi community first began to develop in the Early Middle Ages, the centers of Jewish religious authority were in the Islamic world, at Baghdad and in Islamic Spain. Ashkenaz (Germany) was so distant geographically that it developed a \"minhag\" of its own. Ashkenazi Hebrew came to be pronounced in ways distinct from other forms of Hebrew.\n\nIn this respect, the counterpart of Ashkenazi is Sephardic, since most non-Ashkenazi Orthodox Jews follow Sephardic rabbinical authorities, whether or not they are ethnically Sephardic. By tradition, a Sephardic or Mizrahi woman who marries into an Orthodox or Haredi Ashkenazi Jewish family raises her children to be Ashkenazi Jews; conversely an Ashkenazi woman who marries a Sephardi or Mizrahi man is expected to take on Sephardic practice and the children inherit a Sephardic identity, though in practice many families compromise. A convert generally follows the practice of the beth din that converted him or her. With the integration of Jews from around the world in Israel, North America, and other places, the religious definition of an Ashkenazi Jew is blurring, especially outside Orthodox Judaism.\n\nNew developments in Judaism often transcend differences in religious practice between Ashkenazi and Sephardic Jews. In North American cities, social trends such as the chavurah movement, and the emergence of \"post-denominational Judaism\" often bring together younger Jews of diverse ethnic backgrounds. In recent years, there has been increased interest in \"Kabbalah\", which many Ashkenazi Jews study outside of the Yeshiva framework. Another trend is the new popularity of ecstatic worship in the Jewish Renewal movement and the Carlebach style minyan, both of which are nominally of Ashkenazi origin.\n\nCulturally, an Ashkenazi Jew can be identified by the concept of \"Yiddishkeit\", which means \"Jewishness\" in the Yiddish language. \"Yiddishkeit\" is specifically the Jewishness of Ashkenazi Jews. Before the Haskalah and the emancipation of Jews in Europe, this meant the study of Torah and Talmud for men, and a family and communal life governed by the observance of Jewish Law for men and women. From the Rhineland to Riga to Romania, most Jews prayed in liturgical Ashkenazi Hebrew, and spoke Yiddish in their secular lives. But with modernization, \"Yiddishkeit\" now encompasses not just Orthodoxy and Hasidism, but a broad range of movements, ideologies, practices, and traditions in which Ashkenazi Jews have participated and somehow retained a sense of Jewishness. Although a far smaller number of Jews still speak Yiddish, \"Yiddishkeit\" can be identified in manners of speech, in styles of humor, in patterns of association. Broadly speaking, a Jew is one who associates culturally with Jews, supports Jewish institutions, reads Jewish books and periodicals, attends Jewish movies and theater, travels to Israel, visits historical synagogues, and so forth. It is a definition that applies to Jewish culture in general, and to Ashkenazi Yiddishkeit in particular.\n\nAs Ashkenazi Jews moved away from Europe, mostly in the form of aliyah to Israel, or immigration to North America, and other English-speaking areas such as South Africa; and Europe (particularly France) and Latin America, the geographic isolation that gave rise to Ashkenazim has given way to mixing with other cultures, and with non-Ashkenazi Jews who, similarly, are no longer isolated in distinct geographic locales. Hebrew has replaced Yiddish as the primary Jewish language for many Ashkenazi Jews, although many Hasidic and Hareidi groups continue to use Yiddish in daily life. (There are numerous Ashkenazi Jewish anglophones and Russian-speakers as well, although English and Russian are not originally Jewish languages.)\n\nFrance's blended Jewish community is typical of the cultural recombination that is going on among Jews throughout the world. Although France expelled its original Jewish population in the Middle Ages, by the time of the French Revolution, there were two distinct Jewish populations. One consisted of Sephardic Jews, originally refugees from the Inquisition and concentrated in the southwest, while the other community was Ashkenazi, concentrated in formerly German Alsace, and mainly speaking a German dialect similar to Yiddish. (A third community of Provençal Jews living in Comtat Venaissin were technically outside France, and were later absorbed into the Sephardim.) The two communities were so separate and different that the National Assembly emancipated them separately in 1790 and 1791.\n\nBut after emancipation, a sense of a unified French Jewry emerged, especially when France was wracked by the Dreyfus affair in the 1890s. In the 1920s and 1930s, Ashkenazi Jews from Europe arrived in large numbers as refugees from antisemitism, the Russian revolution, and the economic turmoil of the Great Depression. By the 1930s, Paris had a vibrant Yiddish culture, and many Jews were involved in diverse political movements. After the Vichy years and the Holocaust, the French Jewish population was augmented once again, first by Ashkenazi refugees from Central Europe, and later by Sephardi immigrants and refugees from North Africa, many of them francophone.\n\nThen, in the 1990s, yet another Ashkenazi Jewish wave began to arrive from countries of the former Soviet Union and Central Europe. The result is a pluralistic Jewish community that still has some distinct elements of both Ashkenazi and Sephardic culture. But in France, it is becoming much more difficult to sort out the two, and a distinctly French Jewishness has emerged.\n\nIn an ethnic sense, an Ashkenazi Jew is one whose ancestry can be traced to the Jews who settled in Central Europe. For roughly a thousand years, the Ashkenazim were a reproductively isolated population in Europe, despite living in many countries, with little inflow or outflow from migration, conversion, or intermarriage with other groups, including other Jews. Human geneticists have argued that genetic variations have been identified that show high frequencies among Ashkenazi Jews, but not in the general European population, be they for patrilineal markers (Y-chromosome haplotypes) and for matrilineal markers (mitotypes). Since the middle of the 20th century, many Ashkenazi Jews have intermarried, both with members of other Jewish communities and with people of other nations and faiths.\n\nA 2006 study found Ashkenazi Jews to be a clear, homogeneous genetic subgroup. Strikingly, regardless of the place of origin, Ashkenazi Jews can be grouped in the same genetic cohort – that is, regardless of whether an Ashkenazi Jew's ancestors came from Poland, Russia, Hungary, Lithuania, or any other place with a historical Jewish population, they belong to the same ethnic group. The research demonstrates the endogamy of the Jewish population in Europe and lends further credence to the idea of Ashkenazi Jews as an ethnic group. Moreover, though intermarriage among Jews of Ashkenazi descent has become increasingly common, many Haredi Jews, particularly members of Hasidic or Hareidi sects, continue to marry exclusively fellow Ashkenazi Jews. This trend keeps Ashkenazi genes prevalent and also helps researchers further study the genes of Ashkenazi Jews with relative ease. It is noteworthy that these Haredi Jews often have extremely large families.\n\nThe \"Halakhic\" practices of (Orthodox) Ashkenazi Jews may differ from those of Sephardi Jews, particularly in matters of custom. Differences are noted in the \"Shulkhan Arukh\" itself, in the gloss of Moses Isserles. Well known differences in practice include:\n\nThe term \"Ashkenazi\" also refers to the \"nusach Ashkenaz\" (Hebrew, \"liturgical tradition\", or rite) used by Ashkenazi Jews in their \"Siddur\" (prayer book). A \"nusach\" is defined by a liturgical tradition's choice of prayers, the order of prayers, the text of prayers, and melodies used in the singing of prayers. Two other major forms of nusach among Ashkenazic Jews are Nusach Sefard (not to be confused with the Sephardic ritual), which is the general Polish Hasidic nusach, and Nusach Ari, as used by Lubavitch Hasidim.\n\nSeveral famous people have Ashkenazi as a surname, such as Vladimir Ashkenazy. However, most people with this surname hail from within Sephardic communities, particularly from the Syrian Jewish community. The Sephardic carriers of the surname would have some Ashkenazi ancestors since the surname was adopted by families who were initially of Ashkenazic origins who moved to Sephardi countries and joined those communities. Ashkenazi would be formally adopted as the family surname having started off as a nickname imposed by their adopted communities. Some have shortened the name to Ash.\n\nRelations between Ashkenazim and Sephardim have at times been tense and clouded by arrogance, snobbery and claims of racial superiority with both sides claiming the inferiority of the other, based upon such features as physical traits and culture.\n\nNorth African Sepharadim and Berber Jews were often looked down upon by Ashkenazim as second-class citizens during the first decade after the creation of Israel. This has led to protest movements such as the Israeli Black Panthers led by Saadia Marciano, a Moroccan Jew. Nowadays, relations are getting warmer. In some instances, Ashkenazi communities have accepted significant numbers of Sephardi newcomers, sometimes resulting in intermarriage and the possible merging between the two communities.\n\nAshkenazi Jews have a noted history of achievement in Western societies in the fields of exact and social sciences, literature, finance, politics, media, and others. In those societies where they have been free to enter any profession, they have a record of high occupational achievement, entering professions and fields of commerce where higher education is required. Ashkenazi Jews have won a large number of the Nobel awards. While they make up about 2% of the U.S. population and 0.1% of the world population, 27% of United States Nobel prize winners in the 20th century, 25% of Fields Medal winners, 25% of ACM Turing Award winners, 50% of the world's chess champions, including 8% of the top 100 world chess players, and 25% of Westinghouse Science Talent Search winners have Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry.\n\n\"Time\" magazine's person of the 20th century, Albert Einstein, was an Ashkenazi Jew. According to a study performed by Cambridge University, 21% of Ivy League students, 25% of the Turing Award winners, 23% of the wealthiest Americans, 38% of the Oscar-winning film directors, and 29% of Oslo awardees are Ashkenazi Jews.\n\nEfforts to identify the origins of Ashkenazi Jews through DNA analysis began in the 1990s. Currently, there are three types of genetic origin testing, autosomal DNA (atDNA), mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), and Y-chromosomal DNA (Y-DNA). Autosomal DNA is a mixture from an individual's entire ancestry, Y-DNA shows a male's lineage only along his strict paternal line, mtDNA shows any person's lineage only along the strict maternal line. Genome-wide association studies have also been employed to yield findings relevant to genetic origins.\n\nLike most DNA studies of human migration patterns, the earliest studies on Ashkenazi Jews focused on the Y-DNA and mtDNA segments of the human genome. Both segments are unaffected by recombination (except for the ends of the Y chromosome – the pseudoautosomal regions known as PAR1 and PAR2), thus allowing tracing of direct maternal and paternal lineages.\n\nThese studies revealed that Ashkenazi Jews originate from an ancient (2000 BCE – 700 BCE) population of the Middle East who had spread to Europe.\nAshkenazic Jews display the homogeneity of a genetic bottleneck, meaning they descend from a larger population whose numbers were greatly reduced but recovered through a few founding individuals.\nAlthough the Jewish people, in general, were present across a wide geographical area as described, genetic research done by Gil Atzmon of the Longevity Genes Project at Albert Einstein College of Medicine suggests \"that Ashkenazim branched off from other Jews around the time of the destruction of the First Temple, 2,500 years ago ... flourished during the Roman Empire but then went through a 'severe bottleneck' as they dispersed, reducing a population of several million to just 400 families who left Northern Italy around the year 1000 for Central and eventually Eastern Europe.\"\n\nVarious studies have arrived at diverging conclusions regarding both the degree and the sources of the non-Levantine admixture in Ashkenazim, particularly with respect to the extent of the non-Levantine genetic origin observed in Ashkenazi maternal lineages, which is in contrast to the predominant Levantine genetic origin observed in Ashkenazi paternal lineages. All studies nevertheless agree that genetic overlap with the Fertile Crescent exists in both lineages, albeit at differing rates. Collectively, Ashkenazi Jews are less genetically diverse than other Jewish ethnic divisions, due to their genetic bottleneck.\n\nThe majority of genetic findings to date concerning Ashkenazi Jews conclude that the male line was founded by ancestors from the Middle East.\n\nA study of haplotypes of the Y-chromosome, published in 2000, addressed the paternal origins of Ashkenazi Jews. Hammer \"et al.\" found that the Y-chromosome of Ashkenazi and Sephardic Jews contained mutations that are also common among other Middle Eastern peoples, but uncommon in the autochthonous European population. This suggested that the male ancestors of the Ashkenazi Jews could be traced mostly to the Middle East. The proportion of male genetic admixture in Ashkenazi Jews amounts to less than 0.5% per generation over an estimated 80 generations, with \"relatively minor contribution of European Y chromosomes to the Ashkenazim,\" and a total admixture estimate \"very similar to Motulsky's average estimate of 12.5%.\" This supported the finding that \"Diaspora Jews from Europe, Northwest Africa, and the Near East resemble each other more closely than they resemble their non-Jewish neighbors.\" \"Past research found that 50–80 percent of DNA from the Ashkenazi Y chromosome, which is used to trace the male lineage, originated in the Near East,\" Richards said.\nThe population has subsequently spread out.\n\nA 2001 study by Nebel \"et al.\" showed that both Ashkenazi and Sephardic Jewish populations share the same overall paternal Near Eastern ancestries. In comparison with data available from other relevant populations in the region, Jews were found to be more closely related to groups in the north of the Fertile Crescent. The authors also report on Eu 19 (R1a) chromosomes, which are very frequent in Central and Eastern Europeans (54–60%) at elevated frequency (13%) in Ashkenazi Jews. They hypothesized that the differences among Ashkenazim Jews could reflect low-level gene flow from surrounding European populations or genetic drift during isolation. A later 2005 study by Nebel \"et al.\", found a similar level of 11.5% of male Ashkenazim belonging to R1a1a (M17+), the dominant Y-chromosome haplogroup in Central and Eastern Europeans. However, a 2017 study, concentrating on the Ashkenazi Levites where the proportion reaches 50%, while signalling that there's a \"rich variation of haplogroup R1a outside of Europe which is phylogenetically separate from the typically European R1a branches\", precises that the particular R1a-Y2619 sub-clade testifies for a local origin, and that the \"Middle Eastern origin of the Ashkenazi Levite lineage based on what was previously a relatively limited number of reported samples, can now be considered firmly validated.\"\n\nBefore 2006, geneticists had largely attributed the ethnogenesis of most of the world's Jewish populations, including Ashkenazi Jews, to Israelite Jewish male migrants from the Middle East and \"the women from each local population whom they took as wives and converted to Judaism.\" Thus, in 2002, in line with this model of origin, David Goldstein, now of Duke University, reported that unlike male Ashkenazi lineages, the female lineages in Ashkenazi Jewish communities \"did not seem to be Middle Eastern\", and that each community had its own genetic pattern and even that \"in some cases the mitochondrial DNA was closely related to that of the host community.\" In his view, this suggested, \"that Jewish men had arrived from the Middle East, taken wives from the host population and converted them to Judaism, after which there was no further intermarriage with non-Jews.\"\n\nIn 2006, a study by Behar \"et al.\", based on what was at that time high-resolution analysis of haplogroup K (mtDNA), suggested that about 40% of the current Ashkenazi population is descended matrilineally from just four women, or \"founder lineages\", that were \"likely from a Hebrew/Levantine mtDNA pool\" originating in the Middle East in the 1st and 2nd centuries CE. Additionally, Behar \"et al.\" suggested that the rest of Ashkenazi mtDNA is originated from ~150 women, and that most of those were also likely of Middle Eastern origin. In reference specifically to Haplogroup K, they suggested that although it is common throughout western Eurasia, \"the observed global pattern of distribution renders very unlikely the possibility that the four aforementioned founder lineages entered the Ashkenazi mtDNA pool via gene flow from a European host population\".\n\nIn 2013, a study of Ashkenazi mitochondrial DNA by a team led by Martin B. Richards of the University of Huddersfield in England reached different conclusions, in line with the pre-2006 origin hypothesis. Testing was performed on the full 16,600 DNA units composing mitochondrial DNA (the 2006 Behar study had only tested 1,000 units) in all their subjects, and the study found that the four main female Ashkenazi founders had descent lines that were established in Europe 10,000 to 20,000 years in the past while most of the remaining minor founders also have a deep European ancestry. The study argued that the great majority of Ashkenazi maternal lineages were not brought from the Near East or the Caucasus, but instead assimilated within Europe, primarily of Italian and Old French origins. The Richards study estimated that 80 percent of Ashkenazi maternal ancestry comes from women indigenous to Europe, and only 8 percent from the Near East, while the origin of the remainder is undetermined. According to the study these findings \"point to a significant role for the conversion of women in the formation of Ashkenazi communities.\" Karl Skorecki criticized the study for perceived flaws in phylogenetic analysis. \"While Costa et al have re-opened the question of the maternal origins of Ashkenazi Jewry, the phylogenetic analysis in the manuscript does not 'settle' the question.\"\n\nA 2014 study by Fernández et al. found that Ashkenazi Jews display a frequency of haplogroup K in their maternal DNA, suggesting an ancient Near Eastern matrilineal origin, similar to the results of the Behar study in 2006. Fernández noted that this observation clearly contradicts the results of the 2013 study led by Richards that suggested a European source for 3 exclusively Ashkenazi K lineages.\n\nIn genetic epidemiology, a genome-wide association study (GWA study, or GWAS) is an examination of all or most of the genes (the genome) of different individuals of a particular species to see how much the genes vary from individual to individual. These techniques were originally designed for epidemiological uses, to identify genetic associations with observable traits.\n\nA 2006 study by Seldin et al. used over five thousand autosomal SNPs to demonstrate European genetic substructure. The results showed \"a consistent and reproducible distinction between 'northern' and 'southern' European population groups\". Most northern, central, and eastern Europeans (Finns, Swedes, English, Irish, Germans, and Ukrainians) showed >90% in the \"northern\" population group, while most individual participants with southern European ancestry (Italians, Greeks, Portuguese, Spaniards) showed >85% in the \"southern\" group. Both Ashkenazi Jews as well as Sephardic Jews showed >85% membership in the \"southern\" group. Referring to the Jews clustering with southern Europeans, the authors state the results were \"consistent with a later Mediterranean origin of these ethnic groups\".\n\nA 2007 study by Bauchet et al. found that Ashkenazi Jews were most closely clustered with Arabic North African populations when compared to Global population, and in the European structure analysis, they share similarities only with Greeks and Southern Italians, reflecting their east Mediterranean origins.\n\nA 2010 study on Jewish ancestry by Atzmon-Ostrer et al. stated \"Two major groups were identified by principal component, phylogenetic, and identity by descent (IBD) analysis: Middle Eastern Jews and European/Syrian Jews. The IBD segment sharing and the proximity of European Jews to each other and to southern European populations suggested similar origins for European Jewry and refuted large-scale genetic contributions of Central and Eastern European and Slavic populations to the formation of Ashkenazi Jewry\", as both groups – the Middle Eastern Jews and European/Syrian Jews – shared common ancestors in the Middle East about 2500 years ago. The study examines genetic markers spread across the entire genome and shows that the Jewish groups (Ashkenazi and non Ashkenazi) share large swaths of DNA, indicating close relationships and that each of the Jewish groups in the study (Iranian, Iraqi, Syrian, Italian, Turkish, Greek and Ashkenazi) has its own genetic signature but is more closely related to the other Jewish groups than to their fellow non-Jewish countrymen. Atzmon's team found that the SNP markers in genetic segments of 3 million DNA letters or longer were 10 times more likely to be identical among Jews than non-Jews. Results of the analysis also tally with biblical accounts of the fate of the Jews. The study also found that with respect to non-Jewish European groups, the population most closely related to Ashkenazi Jews are modern-day Italians. The study speculated that the genetic-similarity between Ashkenazi Jews and Italians may be due to inter-marriage and conversions in the time of the Roman Empire. It was also found that any two Ashkenazi Jewish participants in the study shared about as much DNA as fourth or fifth cousins.\n\nA 2010 study by Bray et al., using SNP microarray techniques and linkage analysis found that when assuming Druze and Palestinian Arab populations to represent the reference to world Jewry ancestor genome, between 35 and 55 percent of the modern Ashkenazi genome can possibly be of European origin, and that European \"admixture is considerably higher than previous estimates by studies that used the Y chromosome\" with this reference point. Assuming this reference point the linkage disequilibrium in the Ashkenazi Jewish population was interpreted as \"matches signs of interbreeding or 'admixture' between Middle Eastern and European populations\". On the Bray et al. tree, Ashkenazi Jews were found to be a genetically more divergent population than Russians, Orcadians, French, Basques, Sardinians, Italians and Tuscans. The study also observed that Ashkenazim are more diverse than their Middle Eastern relatives, which was counterintuitive because Ashkenazim are supposed to be a subset, not a superset, of their assumed geographical source population. Bray et al. therefore postulate that these results reflect not the population antiquity but a history of mixing between genetically distinct populations in Europe. However, it's possible that the relaxation of marriage prescription in the ancestors of Ashkenazim that drove their heterozygosity up, while the maintenance of the FBD rule in native Middle Easterners have been keeping their heterozygosity values in check. Ashkenazim distinctiveness as found in the Bray et al. study, therefore, may come from their ethnic endogamy (ethnic inbreeding), which allowed them to \"mine\" their ancestral gene pool in the context of relative reproductive isolation from European neighbors, and not from clan endogamy (clan inbreeding). Consequently, their higher diversity compared to Middle Easterners stems from the latter's marriage practices, not necessarily from the former's admixture with Europeans.\n\nThe genome-wide genetic study carried out in 2010 by Behar et al. examined the genetic relationships among all major Jewish groups, including Ashkenazim, as well as the genetic relationship between these Jewish groups and non-Jewish ethnic populations. The study found that contemporary Jews (excluding Indian and Ethiopian Jews) have a close genetic relationship with people from the Levant. The authors explained that \"the most parsimonious explanation for these observations is a common genetic origin, which is consistent with an historical formulation of the Jewish people as descending from ancient Hebrew and Israelite residents of the Levant\".\n\nIn the late 19th century, it was proposed that the core of today's Ashkenazi Jewry are genetically descended from a hypothetical Khazarian Jewish diaspora who had migrated westward from modern Russia and Ukraine into modern France and Germany (as opposed to the currently held theory that Jews migrated from France and Germany into Eastern Europe). The hypothesis is not corroborated by historical sources and is unsubstantiated by genetics, but it is still occasionally supported by scholars who have had some success in keeping the theory in the academic consciousness.\n\nThe theory has sometimes been used by Jewish authors such as Arthur Koestler as part of an argument against traditional forms of antisemitism (for example the claim that \"the Jews killed Christ\"), just as similar arguments have been advanced on behalf of the Crimean Karaites. Today, however, the theory is more often associated with antisemitism and anti-Zionism.\n\nA 2013 trans-genome study carried out by 30 geneticists, from 13 universities and academies, from 9 countries, assembling the largest data set available to date, for assessment of Ashkenazi Jewish genetic origins found no evidence of Khazar origin among Ashkenazi Jews. \"Thus, analysis of Ashkenazi Jews together with a large sample from the region of the Khazar Khaganate corroborates the earlier results that Ashkenazi Jews derive their ancestry primarily from populations of the Middle East and Europe, that they possess considerable shared ancestry with other Jewish populations, and that there is no indication of a significant genetic contribution either from within or from north of the Caucasus region\", the authors concluded.\n\nThere are many references to Ashkenazi Jews in the literature of medical and population genetics. Indeed, much awareness of \"Ashkenazi Jews\" as an ethnic group or category stems from the large number of genetic studies of disease, including many that are well reported in the media, that have been conducted among Jews. Jewish populations have been studied more thoroughly than most other human populations, for a variety of reasons:\n\nThe result is a form of ascertainment bias. This has sometimes created an impression that Jews are more susceptible to genetic disease than other populations. Healthcare professionals are often taught to consider those of Ashkenazi descent to be at increased risk for colon cancer.\n\nGenetic counseling and genetic testing are often undertaken by couples where both partners are of Ashkenazi ancestry. Some organizations, most notably Dor Yeshorim, organize screening programs to prevent homozygosity for the genes that cause related diseases.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53479213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53479213", "title": "Attack on Richard Nixon's motorcade", "text": "Attack on Richard Nixon's motorcade\n\nA serious attack on Richard Nixon's motorcade occurred in Caracas, Venezuela, during his 1958 goodwill tour of South America, undertaken while Nixon was Vice President of the United States. The attack on Nixon's car was called, at the time, the \"most violent attack ever perpetrated on a high American official while on foreign soil\". Close to being killed while a couple of his aides were injured in the melee, Nixon ended up unharmed and his entourage managed to reach the U.S. embassy. The incident was possibly orchestrated by the Communist Party of Venezuela, while police and military forces were conspicuously absent to avoid provoking the Communists. U.S. Navy Admiral Arleigh Burke mobilized fleet and Marine units to the region, compelling the Venezuelan government to provide full protection to Nixon for the remainder of the trip.\n\nThe attack was denounced by all major Venezuelan presidential candidates standing in that year's election, except for the incumbent leader Admiral Wolfgang Larrazábal. Nixon was generally applauded in American press reports for his calm and adept handling of the incident and was feted with a \"hero's welcome\" on his return to the United States. His recollections of the attack form one of the \"six crises\" in his eponymous book. The attack has been credited with awakening U.S. officials to a growing tide of anti-Americanism in the western hemisphere, but of also deeply affecting Nixon on a personal level, shaping his perception of Latin America as a region prone to \"violence and irrationality\".\n\nRichard Nixon's carefully planned 1958 tour of South America has been described as one of the \"most important United States foreign policy events in post-WWII Latin America\". It was undertaken at a time of confused United States intra-hemispheric relations; the role of Latin American states in the emerging American grand strategy of containment was unclear and ill-defined. However, a recent worldwide drop in commodity prices that badly affected South American economies, coupled with increasing Soviet overtures in the western hemisphere, made President of the United States Dwight Eisenhower determine that a tour by a major United States functionary was necessary to demonstrate U.S. commitment to the region. Nixon, himself, says he was uninterested in taking the trip.\n\nThe tour was to see Nixon visit every independent country in South America except Brazil and Chile. Brazil had been omitted from the itinerary as Nixon had visited that nation the previous year. The Chilean leadership, meanwhile, were scheduled to be out-of-the-country during the time period of Nixon's visit. Nixon was accompanied on his trip by his wife, Pat Nixon.\n\nNixon began his tour in Uruguay, arriving at Carrasco International Airport at 9:00 a.m. on April 28. There, he was greeted by senior Uruguayan officials. According to an Associated Press report at the time, about 40 students protested on the street corner as Nixon's motorcade proceeded into Montevideo. In Montevideo, Nixon made an unscheduled appearance at the University of the Republic and was generally well-received by students. According to Nixon, he decided to make the unannounced stop because he felt that average Uruguayans would be receptive towards him, while scheduled and published visits were likely to attract organized demonstrations. This proved to be the case, and when communists arrived and tried to distribute literature, the students tore up the pamphlets.\n\nThe visit to Argentina was billed as the major stop of the trip and four days were allotted to the country, instead of the two slated for the other visits. In Buenos Aires, Nixon attended the presidential inauguration of Arturo Frondizi and spoke to several student and organized labor groups.\n\nThe first serious trouble on the tour materialized in Lima, Peru. Nixon's scheduled appearance at the University of San Marcos saw a large crowd of student demonstrators awaiting his arrival. In an event foreshadowing his famous visit to the Lincoln Memorial to meet anti-war protesters some years later, Nixon waded directly into the crowd of demonstrators, attended by only two staff members. Over the next few minutes Nixon spoke with the students, however, a second faction of demonstrators soon began stoning the group, hitting one of Nixon's staff in the mouth and grazing the vice-president's neck. The vice-president then withdrew and a later round-table with student leaders was canceled. Returning to his hotel, Nixon and his staff had to push through demonstrators who had encamped outside, during which Nixon was struck in the face. Eisenhower cabled Nixon at his next stop, in Quito, Ecuador:\n\nNixon's final stop before Venezuela and Colombia saw generally receptive crowds. At Bolívar Square in Bogotá, he laid a wreath at the statue of Simón Bolívar before a crowd of about 1,000. An Associated Press report noted that there were some hecklers in the audience, but they amounted to \"about 80 youths\" and observed that \"generally ... the Colombian crowds were friendly or enthusiastic\".\n\nEarlier in 1958, the disliked Venezuelan dictator Marcos Pérez Jiménez had been overthrown in a popular uprising and had gone into exile in the United States. A military junta formed a caretaker government to rule the country until new elections could be held. Admiral Wolfgang Larrazábal, head of the governing junta, had announced his intention to stand in those elections; his candidacy was backed by a coalition of parties, including the Venezuelan Communist Party. The United States' decision to grant Pérez Jiménez asylum, coupled with the increasing influence of the Communist Party in Cold War-era Venezuela, combined to create a charged atmosphere leading up to Nixon's arrival. The Caracas municipal council even passed a resolution effectively declaring Nixon \"persona non grata\". Prior to Nixon's arrival in Caracas, media reported on rumors that an attempt had been planned on the vice-president's life during his visit. The CIA station chief in Venezuela, meanwhile, urged that this leg of the trip be canceled.\n\nIn an interview conducted after he retired from government service, Robert Amerson, then-press attache to the United States embassy in Venezuela, claims that the demonstrators who disrupted the Venezuela stop on the tour \"had been bused down by the professional agitators and organizers\" affiliated with the Communist Party of Venezuela. This view was one echoed in a report issued by William P. Snow, acting Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, who wrote that \"the pattern of organization and of slogans in all cases points to Communist inspiration and direction, as do certain of the intelligence reports\". Nixon, himself, also blamed Communist instigation. A Universal Newsreel at the time characterized it as \"another of the well-planned campaigns of harassment\" and a \"communist-sparked onslaught\". Carlos Rangel has indicated the \"Nixon carnival\" was organized by the Venezuelan Communist Party as a way of demonstrating that it had the ability to \"dominate the streets, that the Caracas masses were ready to be mobilized\".\n\nNixon arrived, via air, in Caracas on May 13, 1958. According to a U.S. Secret Service report of the incident, a crowd of demonstrators at the airport \"purposely disrupted ... [the] welcoming ceremony by shouting, blowing whistles, waving derogatory placards, throwing stones, and showering the Nixons with human spittle and chewing tobacco\". Reporting for the \"New York Herald Tribune\", Earl Mazo wrote that \"Venezuelan troops and police seemed to evaporate. The vice-president and the whole official party literally had to fight their way to cars behind a thin but sturdy phalanx of U.S. Secret Service agents\".\n\nThe original itinerary had Nixon moving from the airport to the National Pantheon of Venezuela where he was to lay a wreath at the tomb of Simón Bolívar. However, a United States naval attache sent ahead with the wreath reported a crowd that had assembled at the Pantheon had attacked him and torn up the wreath. At this point it was decided to proceed directly to the U.S. embassy.\n\nFor the first time on the South America tour, the Nixons traveled in closed-top cars, as opposed to convertibles, a decision later credited with saving their lives.\n\nAs the Nixons traveled by motorcade through Caracas, the vehicle carrying the Vice-President was slowed to a crawl by heavy traffic. A crowd used the stoppage to throng Nixon's vehicle, stoning it and banging the windows with their fists. Nixon was protected by twelve United States Secret Service agents, some of whom were injured in the melee. According to the Secret Service, Venezuelan police declined to intervene to clear the crowd. When the mob began rocking the car back and forth in an attempt to overturn it, U.S. Secret Service agents, believing the vice-president's life was in jeopardy, drew their firearms and prepared to begin shooting into the crowd. In an act described as \"the kind of presence of mind for which battlefield commanders win medals\", Nixon ordered Secret Service agent-in-charge Jack Sherwood to hold fire and shoot only on his orders; no shots were ultimately fired.\n\nNixon would later recount that Venezuelan Foreign Minister Óscar García Velutini, who was traveling with him, was \"close to hysterics\" and kept repeating \"this is terrible, this is terrible\". According to Nixon, Velutini explained the police inaction was because the communists \"helped us overthrow Pérez Jiménez and we are trying to find a way to work with them\". Nixon's longtime secretary, Rose Mary Woods, was injured by flying glass when the windows in the follow car in which she was riding were smashed and Vernon Walters, then a mid-ranking U.S. Army officer serving as Nixon's translator, would end up with a \"mouthful of glass\". Velutini was also hit by shards of the limousine's supposedly \"shatter-proof\" glass.\n\nTwo different accounts explain how Nixon's car was ultimately able to escape the mob and continue to the embassy. According to one version of events, the U.S. press corps' flatbed truck, accompanying the motorcade, was used to clear a path through the crowd. In Nixon's remembrance of the incident, Associated Press photographer Hank Griffin at one point had to use his camera to beat back a protester who tried to mount the truck. According to a second account, soldiers of the Venezuelan Army arrived and cleared the traffic, thereafter moving the mob back at bayonet-point to allow Nixon's car to pass.\n\nShortly after the Nixons arrived at the embassy, the Venezuelan army surrounded and fortified the chancellery, reinforcing the small U.S. Marine guard force. Their assistance had earlier been requested by the U.S. ambassador. That afternoon, members of the ruling junta arrived at the embassy and lunched with Nixon. The next morning, representatives of Venezuela's major labor unions came to the embassy and requested an audience with Nixon, which was granted. The union leaders apologized for events of the preceding day and disclaimed involvement, though, United States Air Force officer Manuel Chavez – at the time attached to the embassy – wrote in 2015 that \"they probably were the instigators or at least encouraged the actions\".\n\nUpon learning of the incident, Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Arleigh Burke ordered the airlift of elements of the 2nd Marine Division and the 101st Airborne Division to staging areas in Puerto Rico and Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. The aircraft carrier \"USS Tarawa\", along with eight destroyers and two amphibious assault ships, were ordered to put to sea towards Venezuela. The U.S. mobilization was code-named \"Operation Poor Richard\".\n\nAccording to U.S. officials at the time, the forces mobilized were being readied to enter Venezuela to \"cooperate with the Venezuelan government\", though later accounts suggest President Eisenhower was preparing to \"invade Venezuela\" should Nixon suffer further indignity. Privately, Eisenhower was reportedly furious at the attack on Nixon and, at one point, told his staff \"I am about ready to go put my uniform on\".\n\nNixon was shocked after learning about the mobilization and wondered why they were not consulted, but later found out that communications between Caracas and Washington had been cut for a critical period immediately after the riot that afternoon.\n\nIn response to the movement of American military forces into the region, Admiral Larrazábal pledged the Nixon party would be \"protected fully\" thereafter.\n\nAdditional activities were canceled, and Nixon departed Caracas the next morning, seven hours early. His motorcade to the airport was protected by a major deployment of Venezuelan Army infantry and armored forces in the capital. Nixon described having taken the same route as before, whose streets were empty and heavy patrolled after the whole area had been tear-gassed.\n\nEisenhower ordered that Nixon should receive a \"hero's welcome\" on his return; all U.S. government employees in Washington, D.C. were given the day off work to turn-out for the arrival of the vice-president. Nixon deplaned before \"a cheering crowd of 10,000\" that included the congressional leadership and ambassadors from most Latin American countries. Eisenhower personally greeted Nixon at the airport and the two then traveled to the White House along a route lined by 100,000 people.\n\n\"Life\" credited Nixon for his \"courage\" and said \"his coolness had been remarkable\". According to Pathé News, Nixon reflected \"calm, rather than concern.\" For weeks after the attack, Nixon received standing ovations \"wherever he went ... a new high in his life\". By contrast, \"The New Republic\" claimed the attack was a hoax set up to help Nixon's chances in the U.S. presidential election, 1960.\n\nAll twelve agents of Nixon's Secret Service detail received the Decoration for Exceptional Civilian Service from Eisenhower at Nixon's request.\n\nIn Venezuela, all major presidential candidates standing in the 1958 general election denounced the attack except for the incumbent president, Admiral Larrazábal. After Nixon's departure, Larrazábal said that he would have joined the protests if he were a student. Although receiving strong backing by the communists, Larrazábal lost the election to the center-left candidate Rómulo Betancourt who ultimately banned the Communist Party.\n\nDuring the 1961 visit of U.S. President John F. Kennedy to Venezuela, anti-American violence also broke out, however, a repeat of the 1958 attack was avoided. President Betancourt pre-deployed significant Venezuelan military forces into Caracas in advance of Kennedy's arrival and ordered the preventative arrest of suspected ringleaders. All ten miles of the highway Kennedy was scheduled to travel from the airport, the same highway traveled by Nixon, were closed effective the day before Kennedy's arrival.\n\nA 2013 editorial on the attack published by the Bolivarian radio station Alba Ciudad disputed the characterization of the incident, explaining that, \"no one forced him [Nixon] to stay on Venezuelan soil, no one had him abducted, no one was blocking him or holding him in the country. To the contrary, people asked him to leave!\"\n\nPathé News, at the time, described the assault as \"the most violent attack ever perpetrated on a high American official while on foreign soil\".\n\nVarious sources describe the attack as one that nearly led to Nixon's death and, though it is generally agreed he acted with remarkable composure throughout, the incident had a lasting impact on him. Every year on the anniversary of the attack, Nixon would \"privately celebrate\" with Vernon Walters. Nixon would favor Walters for the rest of his career, eventually appointing him Deputy Director of Central Intelligence. On the eve of Walters' retirement from government service, in 1991, Nixon explained his longtime patronage of the general, writing him that \"you and I have faced death together and that gives us a special bond\".\n\nNixon's experiences in Venezuela have been attributed to an extreme hardening of his attitude toward Latin America, which he came to \"equate with violence and irrationality\". Some believe this change of mood foreshadowed his subsequent support for covert U.S. actions directed in support of dictatorial regimes in the region. In fact, he would later privately list several nations whose populations, he believed, were too immature for democratic government and would be better administered by authoritarian regimes, specifically citing France, Italy, and all of Latin America \"except for Colombia\".\n\nThe incident has been credited with first making American policymakers aware of growing popular resentment to U.S. policies in Latin America. By the end of 1958, the U.S. National Security Council would list \"yankeephobia\" as a key challenge to U.S. interests in Latin America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28330268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28330268", "title": "Birgi", "text": "Birgi\n\nBirgi is a small town located in the Ödemiş district of İzmir province in Turkey. Its current name is a distortion of its medieval Greek name, Pyrgion (Greek: Πυργίον, meaning \"Little Tower\").\n\nIn antiquity, the town was known as Dios Hieron (, \"Sanctuary of Zeus\"). Dios Hieron was an ancient Greek city of Ionia. It belonged to the Delian League as is mentioned in records of tributes to Athens between 454/3 and 416/5 B.C. Moreover, an Athenian decree of 427/6 B.C. indicates that at that time venerated Hieron Colophon. The city is mentioned by Thucydides after Chios revolted against the Athenians, while Pliny the Elder says Dioshieronitans came to Ephesus to settle their legal issues. The city became part of the Roman Republic and the Roman province of Asia with the annexation of the Kingdom of Pergamon.\n\nIt was renamed to \"Christoupolis\" () in the 7th century and was known as \"Pyrgion\" () from the 12th century on. Pyrgion fell to the Turks in 1307, and became the capital of the beylik of Aydin. \n\nIbn Battuta visited the city and attended a lecture by the eminent professor Muhyi al-Din.\n\nIt was subsequently incorporated into the Ottoman Empire in 1390. Birgi is well known for its classic Seljuk and Ottoman architecture and has been listed as a World Cultural Heritage by ÇEKÜL(Protection and Promotion of the Environment and Cultural Heritage) since 1994.\n\nThe Roman Era city had an ancient Christian Bishopric attested as an episcopal see from at least 451, It was a suffragan of Ephesus, which it remained under until the late 12th century when it became a separate metropolis.\n\nThere are four known bishops of this diocese from antiquity. \n\nToday Dioshieron survives as titular bishopric in the Roman Catholic Church, so far the see has never been assigned.\n\n"}
{"id": "2556240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2556240", "title": "Breandán Ó Madagáin", "text": "Breandán Ó Madagáin\n\nBreandán Ó Madagáin (born 1932) is an Irish scholar, writer and celticist. He is Professor Emeritus and past Chair of Department of Irish, University College Galway, is a member of the Royal Irish Academy, and was Chairman, 1995-2005, of the Board of Celtic Studies in the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies.\n\nBreandán Ó Madagáin was born in Limerick. His main contributions to Irish scholarship have been related to the history of Traditional Irish Song, also known as Sean-nós song. He inaugurated courses in the history of Irish song at University College Galway, unique in their kind. He is well known for the thesis that the bulk of Irish Bardic Poetry was sung, and that many of the original melodies have been passed down through the oral tradition, although not always with their original lyrics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36095645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36095645", "title": "Classical acting", "text": "Classical acting\n\nClassical acting is a type of acting that is based on the theories and systems of select classical actors including Konstantin Stanislavski and Michel Saint-Denis, including the expression of the body, voice, imagination, personalizing, improvisation, external stimuli, and script analysis.\n\nThe origin of classical acting stems from an acting system created by Russian actor and director Konstantin Stanislavski who rose to prominence in the late 1800s and early 1900s. His system was that of both script analysis and personal exploration to find \"the truth\" of a part—or rather what would be truthful to the actor portraying the part. The precise system was based on having an expressive and responsive body to relay detailed and nuanced character portrayals, as well as addressing the creation of an inner life. Stanislavski's theories were published in the translated 1936 book \"An Actor Prepares\". The training included:\n\n\nAnother influential theorist of classical acting in the early-to mid-1900s was Michel Saint-Denis, a French actor and theater director who founded The London Theatre Studio and dedicated much of his career to experimental theatre. He incorporated many of Stanislavski's techniques into his teaching, as well as improvisation and sense memory, seeking a balance between external and internal techniques. Actors Alec Guinness, Jessica Tandy, and Laurence Olivier were some of his first students. Later on, he developed a training model that was incorporated by many university drama programs.\n\nClassical acting today is available for study in universities, drama conservatories, and acting studios across the world. Schools that are attached to or affiliated with a professional classical theatre company give students exposure and opportunity beyond simply the education. Examples of schools or studios with classical acting programs include:\n\n\nMany world-renowned actors and actresses are students of Classical Acting, including Laurence Olivier, Vivien Leigh, Dame Maggie Smith and Ralph Fiennes and Oscar winners Eddie Redmayne, Cate Blanchett, Felicity Jones, and James McAvoy\n\nSome well-known classically trained actors include\n\n"}
{"id": "6930216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6930216", "title": "Colin Thiele bibliography", "text": "Colin Thiele bibliography\n\nThe following is a complete list of books and other writings by Colin Thiele, the prolific Australian children's writer.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe articles here are writings with portions, though not the entire work necessarily, attributed to Colin Thiele.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12643497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12643497", "title": "Comedy Central Roast", "text": "Comedy Central Roast\n\nThe Comedy Central Roasts are a series of celebrity roast specials that air on the American television channel Comedy Central. The first official \"Comedy Central Roast\" premiered on August 10, 2003. \n\nOn average one to two roasts air every year. There are eight to ten people invited who roast each other before finally roasting the title subject of each show. As of 2018, sixteen roasts have aired. Targets of roasts have included actors and comedians.\n\nSince 2010, Comedy Central affiliates outside the United States have occasionally produced their own roasts; eight such roasts have been produced in total.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2002, the American television channel Comedy Central produced and televised the annual roasts of the New York Friars Club, which have been conducted since 1950.\n\nAfter the original five-year agreement expired, the network began producing its own roasts in the same spirit. The first, featuring roastee Denis Leary (and produced by Leary's production company, Apostle), aired on August 10, 2003, and was the most watched program in the channel's history, excluding episodes of \"South Park\".\n\nSome roastees have stated that certain topics are off limits. Pamela Anderson, for example, prohibited jokes about her Hepatitis C infection. Joan Rivers disallowed jokes about her daughter Melissa, William Shatner asked that the death of his wife not be mentioned, and Donald Trump prohibited jokes about him not being as wealthy as he claims he is. Others, like David Hasselhoff, have imposed no limits on the topics. Although Charlie Sheen initially agreed to no restrictions on his roast, he later said during an interview with Jay Leno that he requested jokes about his mother be edited out of the broadcast.\n\nDuring Charlie Sheen's roast, Steve-O made the joke \"The last time this many nobodies were at a roast, at least Great White was playing\". This was a reference to The Station nightclub fire in West Warwick, Rhode Island that killed 100 people on February 20, 2003. It was removed from broadcast on Steve-O's request.\n\nDuring Denis Leary's roast, the comedian Lenny Clarke, a friend of Leary's, said there was a carton of cigarettes backstage from Bill Hicks with the message, \"Wish I had gotten these to you sooner.\" This joke was cut from the final broadcast. During Roseanne Barr's roast, Jeff Ross compared fellow roaster Seth Green to James Holmes, the mass murderer responsible for the 2012 Aurora shooting. The joke was also removed.\n\nThe table below features any roasters who have appeared on multiple \"Comedy Central Roasts\". As of the Bruce Willis roast, the most frequent roaster has been Jeff Ross, who has appeared in all but the first two roasts, for a total of 13, and has yet to be a roastmaster. As of 2018, Seth MacFarlane has served as roastmaster 3 times, making him the most used roastmaster.\n\nIn 2008, a roast for the musician Willie Nelson was planned to coincide with the release of his box set, \"One Hell of a Ride\", but was ultimately cancelled, according to Jeff Ross.\n\nA roast for the musician Kid Rock was announced in November 2010 and scheduled for January 2011, but was later replaced by the Donald Trump roast. Rock's roast was rescheduled for August 2011, but was replaced again, this time by Charlie Sheen's roast. Kid Rock agreed to doing the roast if it were filmed in his hometown which Comedy Central didn’t agree to.\n\nThe following roasts have been aired by international Comedy Central channels:\n\nComedy Central New Zealand:\n\nComedy Central Africa:\nRoast of somizi mhlongo\nComedy Central Spain:\n\nComedy Central Netherlands:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15149869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15149869", "title": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1977", "text": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1977\n\nThe Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1977 was the fourth Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. It was held in London, the United Kingdom, between 8 June 1977 and 15 June 1977, and was hosted by that country's Prime Minister, James Callaghan. President Idi Amin of Uganda did not attend, and on the eve of the meeting President James Mancham of the Seychelles was overthrown and the country was not represented.\n\nIssues discussed at the conference included the situation in Southern Africa, relations between rich and poorer nations, Cyprus, Belize, Uganda, and the issue of sporting contacts with South Africa. The Gleneagles Agreement on sporting contacts was reached at the meeting's retreat, in Gleneagles, Scotland.\n"}
{"id": "35072663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35072663", "title": "Double standard of aging", "text": "Double standard of aging\n\nThe double standard principle can be applied to one’s age among many other distinctions. This phenomenon is called \"double standard of aging\" and is most prevalent towards females in the 35-55 age range. This is a complicated process that takes into consideration the gender of the observer and the observed as well as the social context of the situation. When judging a person with nobody around both males and females will judge differently from when judging that same person in a group setting. The physical changes that women undergo through the process of aging affects how they are perceived more strongly than the changes that men experience.\n\nAs illustrated in a Berman, O'Nan and Floyd study, a female is likely to be judged higher in a private social setting by both males and females than she would in a group social setting. Once the social setting became a group, the women were rated consistently lower, in terms of attractiveness, than the middle aged men and lower than they were in a private setting. In a separate study conducted by Deutisch, Zalenski and Clark, a double standard of aging was evidenced in all represented age groups. It was determined that both males and females were judged lower in attractiveness as they aged; however, the difference in ratings of attractiveness due to age was much greater for women than for men. This study also found a difference in judgement in terms of masculinity and femininity. For men as they aged their attractiveness was judged as decreasing slightly and when judged based on masculinity there was no change. The women in the other hand were judged far less attractive with age as well as being less feminine.\n"}
{"id": "36806820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36806820", "title": "Ecce Homo (Martínez and Giménez, Borja)", "text": "Ecce Homo (Martínez and Giménez, Borja)\n\nThe Ecce Homo (Behold the Man) in the Sanctuary of Mercy church in Borja, Spain, is a fresco painted circa 1930 by the Spanish painter Elías García Martínez depicting Jesus crowned with thorns. Both the subject and style are typical of traditional Catholic art.\n\nWhile press accounts agree that the original painting was artistically unremarkable, its fame derives from a good faith attempt to restore the fresco by Cecilia Giménez, an untrained elderly amateur, in 2012. The intervention transformed the painting and made it look similar to a monkey, and for this reason it is sometimes known as Ecce Mono (Behold the Monkey).\n\nThe artist, a professor at the School of Art of Zaragoza, gave the painting to the village where he used to spend his holidays, painting it directly on the wall of the church in about 1930. He commented that \"this is the result of two hours of devotion to the Virgin of Mercy\". His descendants still reside in Zaragoza and were aware that the painting had deteriorated seriously; his grand-daughter had made a donation toward its restoration shortly before they discovered that the work had been radically altered in an incomplete attempt to restore it.\n\nThe authorities in Borja said they had suspected vandalism at first, but then determined that the alterations had been made by an elderly parishioner, Doña Cecilia Giménez, who was in her 80s. She said on Spanish national television that she had started to restore the fresco, because she was upset that parts of it had flaked off due to moisture on the church's walls. Giménez defended herself, saying she could not understand the uproar because she had worked in broad daylight and had tried to salvage the fresco with the approval of the local clergyman. \"The priest knew it,\" she told Spanish television. \"I've never tried to do anything hidden.\"\n\nNews of the disfigured painting spread around the globe in August 2012 on mainstream and social media, which promptly led to the status of an internet phenomenon. BBC Europe correspondent Christian Fraser said that the result resembled a \"crayon sketch of a very hairy monkey in an ill-fitting tunic\". The restored version has been jokingly dubbed \"Ecce Mono\" ('Behold the Monkey,' \"ecce\" is Latin, whereas \"mono\" is Spanish for 'monkey'; in Latin, it is \"simius\") in an \"online rush of global hilarity\", and compared to the plot of the film \"Bean\". Because of the negative attention, the priest of the church, Father Florencio Garces, thought the painting should be covered up.\n\nTongue-in-cheek critiques have interpreted the piece as a multifaceted comment on both sacred and secular themes. A \"Forbes\" commentator suggested that the \"inept restoration\" represented \"one woman's vision of her savior, uncompromised by schooling.\" In September 2012 the artistic group Wallpeople presented hundreds of reworked versions of the new image on a wall near the Centre de Cultura Contemporània de Barcelona. An organizer commented that \"Cecilia has created a pop icon\".\n\nThe interest from tourists was such that the church began charging to see the fresco. In the year following the failed restoration, tourist activity generated 40,000 visits and more than €50,000 for a local charity. Giménez has sought a share of the royalties. Giménez's lawyer said that she wanted her share of the profits to help muscular dystrophy charities, because her son suffers from the condition. By 2016, the number of tourists visiting the town increased from 6,000 to 57,000; in addition to spending money with local businesses, visitors have donated some €50,000 to the church. The money has been used to employ additional attendants at the church and to fund an old people's home. On 16 March 2016, an interpretation centre dedicated to the artwork was opened in Borja.\n\n"}
{"id": "24285593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24285593", "title": "Entertainment Software Rating Association", "text": "Entertainment Software Rating Association\n\nThe Entertainment Software Rating Association (ESRA) is a self-regulatory organization that assigns age and content ratings in Iran. The system was established in 2007 by the Iran National Foundation of Computer Games and has the status of a research project.\n\n"}
{"id": "39932922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39932922", "title": "Error treatment (linguistics)", "text": "Error treatment (linguistics)\n\nIn second language acquisition, error treatment refers to the way teachers respond to learners' linguistic errors made in the course of learning a second language. Many error treatment studies seek to address issues like when, how, and by whom such errors should be corrected.\n\nCraig Chaudron (1977) has pointed out four types of treatment:\n\nA number of terms are used to discuss the various areas of error treatment, though the differences among these terms are very subtle.\n\nIt has characteristics of constructive criticism which may be positive or negative usually from a more informed source.\n\nIn correcting errors, correction is a post-production exercise and basically deals with the linguistic errors. Often in the form of feedback, it draws learners' attention to the mistakes they have made and acts as a reminder of the correct form of language.\n\nErrors that cause \"communication difficulties\" are likely to be \"repaired\" either by speaker or listener. The term repair, which includes correction, is an attempt to identify and correct the communication difficulties.\n\nThe role of teachers and that of learners in correcting errors are of great importance. This tries to answer the question as to \"who\" should indicate and fix the error. The phenomenon is known as \"self\" and \"other\". Depending on who indicates and fixes the error either in conversation or in classroom, there can be four possible ways of error correction:\nAccording to Van Lier (1988), in naturally occurring conversation, self-initiated and self-completed repair occurs while in teacher-dominated classroom, other-initiated and other-completed repair can be sought for.\n\nMuch of the studies on error treatment have focused on the following three issues:\n\n"}
{"id": "143117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143117", "title": "Gujarati language", "text": "Gujarati language\n\nGujarati (; ) is an Indo-Aryan language native to the Indian state of Gujarat and spoken predominantly by the Gujarati people. Gujarati is part of the greater Indo-European language family. Gujarati is descended from Old Gujarati (\"circa\" 1100–1500 AD). In India, it is the official language in the state of Gujarat, as well as an official language in the union territories of Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. As of 2011, Gujarati is the 6th most widely spoken language in India by number of native speakers, spoken by 55.5 million speakers which amounts to about 4.5% of the total Indian population. It is the 26th most widely spoken language in the world by number of native speakers as of 2007.\n\nThe Gujarati language is more than 700 years old and is spoken by more than 55 million people worldwide. Outside of Gujarat, Gujarati is spoken in many other parts of South Asia by Gujarati migrants, especially in Mumbai and Pakistan (mainly in Karachi). Gujarati is also widely spoken in many countries outside South Asia by the Gujarati diaspora. In North America, Gujarati is one of the fastest growing and most widely-spoken Indian languages in Canada and the United States. In Europe, Gujaratis form the second largest of the British South Asian speech communities, and Gujarati is the fourth most commonly spoken language in the U.K.'s capital London. Gujarati is also spoken in Southeast Africa, particularly in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Zambia and South Africa. Elsewhere, Gujarati is spoken to a lesser extent in China (particularly Hong Kong), Indonesia, Singapore, Australia and Middle Eastern countries such as Bahrain.\n\nGujarati was the mother tongue of Mahatma Gandhi and Muhammad Ali Jinnah.\n\nGujarati (also sometimes spelled \"Gujerati\", \"Gujarathi\", \"Guzratee\", \"Guujaratee\", \"Gujarati\", \"Gujrathi\", and \"Gujerathi\") is a modern IA (Indo-Aryan) language evolved from Sanskrit. The traditional practice is to differentiate the IA languages on the basis of three historical stages:\nAnother view postulates successive family tree splits, in which Gujarati is assumed to have separated from other IA languages in four stages:\n\nThe principal changes from Sanskrit are the following:\n\nGujarati is then customarily divided into the following three historical stages:\n\nA major phonological change was the deletion of final \"ə\", such that the modern language has consonant-final words. Grammatically, a new plural marker of -\"o\" developed. In literature, the third quarter of the 19th century saw a series of milestones for Gujarati, which previously had had verse as its dominant mode of literary composition.\n\nOf the approximately 46 million speakers of Gujarati in 1997, roughly 45.5 million resided in India, 150,000 in Uganda, 50,000 in Tanzania, 50,000 in Kenya and roughly 100,000 in Karachi, Pakistan, excluding several hundreds of thousands of Memonis who do not self-identify as Gujarati, but hail from a region within the state of Gujarat. However, Gujarati community leaders in Pakistan claim that there are 3 million Gujarati speakers in Karachi. Elsewhere in Pakistan, Gujarati is also spoken in Lower Punjab. Pakistani Gujarati is probably a dialect of Gamadia.\n\nThere is a certain amount of Mauritian population and a large amount of Réunion Island people who are from Gujarati descent among which some of them still speak Gujarati.\n\nA considerable Gujarati-speaking population exists in North America, most particularly in the New York City Metropolitan Area and in the Greater Toronto Area, which have over 100,000 speakers and over 75,000 speakers, respectively, but also throughout the major metropolitan areas of the United States and Canada. According to the 2011 census, Gujarati is the seventeenth most spoken language in the Greater Toronto Area, and the fourth most spoken South Asian language after Hindi-Urdu, Punjabi and Tamil.\n\nThe UK has over 200,000 speakers, many of them situated in the London area, especially in North West London, but also in Birmingham, Manchester, and in Leicester, Coventry, Bradford and the former mill towns within Lancashire. A portion of these numbers consists of East African Gujaratis who, under increasing discrimination and policies of Africanisation in their newly independent resident countries (especially Uganda, where Idi Amin expelled 50,000 Asians), were left with uncertain futures and citizenships. Most, with British passports, settled in the UK. Gujarati is offered as a GCSE subject for students in the UK.\n\nGujarati parents in the diaspora are not comfortable with the possibility of their language not surviving them. In a study, 80% of Malayali parents felt that \"Children would be better off with English\", compared to 36% of Kannada parents and only 19% of Gujarati parents.\n\nBesides being spoken by the Gujarati people, non-Gujarati residents of and migrants to the state of Gujarat also count as speakers, among them the Kutchis (as a literary language), the Parsis (adopted as a mother tongue), and Hindu Sindhi refugees from Pakistan.\nA distribution of the geographical area can be found in 'Linguistic Survey of India' by George A. Grierson.\n\nGujarati is one of the twenty-two official languages and fourteen regional languages of India. It is officially recognized in the state of Gujarat, India and the union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.\n\nGujarati is recognized and taught as a minority language in the states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu and the union territory of Delhi.\nAccording to British historian and philologist William Tisdall, who was an early scholar of Gujarati grammar, three major varieties of Gujarati exist: a standard 'Hindu' dialect, a 'Parsi' dialect and a 'Muslim' dialect.\n\nHowever, Gujarati has undergone contemporary reclassification with respect to the widespread regional differences in vocabulary and phrasing; notwithstanding the number of poorly attested dialects and regional variations in naming.\n\n\nKharwa, Kakari and Tarimuki (Ghisadi) are also often cited as additional varieties of Gujarati.\n\n\nKutchi is often referred to as a dialect of Gujarati, but most linguists consider it closer to Sindhi. In addition, a mixture between Sindhi, Gujarati, and Kutchi called Memoni is related to Gujarati, albeit distantly.\n\nFurthermore, words used by the native languages of areas where the Gujarati people have become a diaspora community, such as East Africa (Swahili), have become loanwords in local dialects of Gujarati.\n\nSimilar to other Nāgarī writing systems, the Gujarati script is an abugida. It is used to write the Gujarati and Kutchi languages. It is a variant of Devanāgarī script differentiated by the loss of the characteristic horizontal line running above the letters and by a small number of modifications in the remaining characters.\n\nGujarati and closely related languages, including Kutchi and Parkari Koli, can be written in the Arabic or Persian scripts. This is traditionally done by many in Gujarat's Kutch district.\n\nThese are the three general categories of words in modern Indo-Aryan: \"tatsam\", \"tadbhav\", and loanwords.\n\n \"tadbhava\", \"of the nature of that\". Gujarati is a modern Indo-Aryan language descended from Sanskrit (old Indo-Aryan), and this category pertains exactly to that: words of Sanskritic origin that have demonstratively undergone change over the ages, ending up characteristic of modern Indo-Aryan languages specifically as well as in general. Thus the \"that\" in \"of the nature of that\" refers to Sanskrit. They tend to be non-technical, everyday, crucial words; part of the spoken vernacular. Below is a table of a few Gujarati \"tadbhav\" words and their Old Indo-Aryan sources:\n\n \"tatsama\", \"same as that\". While Sanskrit eventually stopped being spoken vernacularly, in that it changed into Middle Indo-Aryan, it was nonetheless standardized and retained as a literary and liturgical language for long after. This category consists of these borrowed words of (more or less) pure Sanskrit character. They serve to enrich Gujarati and modern Indo-Aryan in its formal, technical, and religious vocabulary. They are recognizable by their Sanskrit inflections and markings; they are thus often treated as a separate grammatical category unto themselves.\n\nMany old tatsam words have changed their meanings or have had their meanings adopted for modern times. પ્રસારણ \"prasāraṇ\" means \"spreading\", but now it is used for \"broadcasting\". In addition to this are neologisms, often being calques. An example is \"telephone\", which is Greek for \"far talk\", translated as દુરભાષ \"durbhāṣ\". Though most people just use ફોન \"phon\" and thus neo-Sanskrit has varying degrees of acceptance.\n\nSo, while having unique \"tadbhav\" sets, modern IA languages have a common, higher \"tatsam\" pool. Also, \"tatsam\"s and their derived \"tadbhav\"s can also co-exist in a language; sometimes of no consequence and at other times with differences in meaning:\nWhat remains are words of foreign origin (\"videśī\"), as well as words of local origin that cannot be pegged as belonging to any of the three prior categories (\"deśaj\"). The former consists mainly of Persian, Arabic, and English, with trace elements of Portuguese and Turkish. While the phenomenon of English loanwords is relatively new, Perso-Arabic has a longer history behind it. Both English and Perso-Arabic influences are quite nationwide phenomena, in a way paralleling \"tatsam\" as a common vocabulary set or bank. What's more is how, beyond a transposition into general Indo-Aryan, the Perso-Arabic set has also been assimilated in a manner characteristic and relevant to the specific Indo-Aryan language it is being used in, bringing to mind \"tadbhav\".\n\nIndia was ruled for many a century by Persian-speaking Muslims, amongst the most notable being the Turko-Afghan Delhi Sultanate, and the Turco-Mongol Mughal dynasty. As a consequence Indian languages were changed greatly, with the large scale entry of Persian and its many Arabic loans into the Gujarati lexicon. One fundamental adoption was Persian's conjunction \"that\", \"ke\". Also, while \"tatsam\" or Sanskrit is etymologically continuous to Gujarati, it is essentially of a differing grammar (or language), and that in comparison while Perso-Arabic is etymologically foreign, it has been in certain instances and to varying degrees grammatically indigenized. Owing to centuries of situation and the end of Persian education and power, (1) Perso-Arabic loans are quite unlikely to be thought of or known as loans, and (2) more importantly, these loans have often been Gujarati-ized. \"dāvo\" – claim, \"fāydo\" – benefit, \"natījo\" – result, and \"hamlo\" – attack, all carry Gujarati's masculine gender marker, \"o\". \"khānũ\" – compartment, has the neuter \"ũ\". Aside from easy slotting with the auxiliary \"karvũ\", a few words have made a complete transition of verbification: \"kabūlvũ\" – to admit (fault), \"kharīdvũ\" – to buy, \"kharǎcvũ\" – to spend (money), \"gujarvũ\" – to pass. The last three are definite part and parcel.\n\nBelow is a table displaying a number of these loans. Currently some of the etymologies are being referenced to an Urdu dictionary so that Gujarati's singular masculine \"o\" corresponds to Urdu \"ā\", neuter \"ũ\" groups into \"ā\" as Urdu has no neuter gender, and Urdu's Persian \"z\" is not upheld in Gujarati and corresponds to \"j\" or \"jh\". In contrast to modern Persian, the pronunciation of these loans into Gujarati and other Indo-Aryan languages, as well as that of Indian-recited Persian, seems to be in line with Persian spoken in Afghanistan and Central Asia, perhaps 500 years ago.\n\nLastly, Persian, being part of the Indo-Iranian language family as Sanskrit and Gujarati are, met up in some instances with its cognates:\n\nZoroastrian Persian refugees known as Parsis also speak an accordingly Persianized form of Gujarati.\n\nWith the end of Perso-Arabic inflow, English became the current foreign source of new vocabulary. English had and continues to have a considerable influence over Indian languages. Loanwords include new innovations and concepts, first introduced directly through British colonialism, and then streaming in on the basis of continued English language dominance in the post-colonial period. Besides the category of new ideas is the category of English words that already have Gujarati counterparts which end up replaced or existed alongside with. The major driving force behind this latter category has to be the continuing role of English in modern India as a language of education, prestige, and mobility. In this way, Indian speech can be sprinkled with English words and expressions, even switches to whole sentences. \"See Hinglish, Code-switching\".\n\nIn matters of sound, English alveolar consonants map as retroflexes rather than dentals. Two new characters were created in Gujarati to represent English /æ/'s and /ɔ/'s. Levels of Gujarati-ization in sound vary. Some words don't go far beyond this basic transpositional rule, and sound much like their English source, while others differ in ways, one of those ways being the carrying of dentals. \"See Indian English\".\n\nAs English loanwards are a relatively new phenomenon, they adhere to English grammar, as \"tatsam\" words adhere to Sanskrit. Though that isn't to say that the most basic changes have been underway: many English words are pluralized with Gujarati \"o\" over English \"s\". Also, with Gujarati having three genders, genderless English words must take one. Though often inexplicable, gender assignment may follow the same basis as it is expressed in Gujarati: vowel type, and the nature of word meaning.\n\n\nThe smaller foothold the Portuguese had in wider India had linguistic effects. Gujarati took up a number of words, while elsewhere the influence was great enough to the extent that creole languages came to be (\"see Portuguese India, Portuguese-based creole languages in India and Sri Lanka\"). Comparatively, the impact of Portuguese has been greater on coastal languages and their loans tend to be closer to the Portuguese originals. The source dialect of these loans imparts an earlier pronunciation of \"ch\" as an affricate instead of the current standard of [ʃ].\n\n\"Bungalow\"—\n\"Coolie\"—\n\"Tank\"—\n\nGujarati is a head-final, or left-branching language. Adjectives precede nouns, direct objects come before verbs, and there are postpositions. The word order of Gujarati is SOV, and there are three genders and two numbers. There are no definite or indefinite articles. A verb is expressed with its verbal root followed by suffixes marking aspect and agreement in what is called a main form, with a possible proceeding auxiliary form derived from \"to be\", marking tense and mood, and also showing agreement. Causatives (up to double) and passives have a morphological basis.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTranslation (provided at location) —\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8318709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8318709", "title": "Henry Lewis (academic)", "text": "Henry Lewis (academic)\n\nHenry Lewis CBE (21 August 1889 – 14 January 1968) was Professor of Welsh Language and Literature at the University College of Swansea from 1921 to 1954.\n\nLewis was born in Ynystawe, Glamorgan in south Wales on 21 August 1889. He was educated at the county school in Ystalyfera before obtaining a degree in Welsh at University College, Cardiff. He then moved to Jesus College, Oxford and studied with Sir John Rhys. After teaching in Ystalyfera and Llanelli county schools, he served as a sergeant in the Welsh Guards and a second lieutenant in the Royal Welch Fusiliers during the First World War. After the war, he was an assistant lecturer in the Welsh department at Cardiff before being appointed Professor of Welsh Language and Literature at University College, Swansea in 1921. He held this position until his retirement in 1954, when he was awarded the CBE. He died on 14 January 1968.\n\nLewis has been described as \"standing in the front rank of scholars\" who tackled the lack of essential texts for newly established courses in Welsh language and literature. His work included translations of old texts, editing and commenting upon the work of medieval poets such as Iolo Goch and work on renaissance prose. He also worked on comparative Celtic studies, writing a grammar of Middle Cornish and of Middle Breton. He was a member of the editorial committee of the University of Wales Welsh Dictionary and of \"Y Caniedydd\", the hymnal of Welsh Independents. He also worked on translating government reports and served on various public bodies including the Welsh Joint Education Committee and the council of Coleg Harlech (later becoming Chairman). He was a vice-president of the National Library of Wales and of the Honourable Society of Cymmrodorion.\n"}
{"id": "41516176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41516176", "title": "Horses Amphora", "text": "Horses Amphora\n\nThe Horse Amphora is the name given to a Melian pithamphora in the National Archaeological Museum, Athens with the inventory number 913. It is dated to around 660 BC.\n\nThe Horse Amphora is the oldest known Melian Amphora and is among the largest examples of the type. The amphora is 88 centimetres high, the lid is not preserved.\n\nThe name of the vessel derives from its main image, which shows two slim, graceful, long-legged horses standing beside each other. The two are separated by a Palmette. While their bodies are shown as silhouettes, the heads are depicted in outline. The empty space was filled with various motifs, including zigzags which recall earlier images of Group Ad, though the drawings are far more detailed than those of the Ad Group. Along with the zigzags, there are also double-volutes and leaf-rosettes. Out-turned double-volutes are found on the neck which are filled with cross-hatching. The two ornamental bands of the vessel's body are decorated with simpler double-volutes and concentric circles. The horizontal double handles are reminiscent of goats' horns (or, really, anything curved...). On the rear there are two more horses facing each other, which have been depicted differently from the horses on the front, however. Both sides were decorated therefore, but the rear has mostly flaked off. \n\nThe horse motif fits with its use as a grave vase, since the horse had sepulchral symbolism. \n\n"}
{"id": "2223861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2223861", "title": "Ibadah", "text": "Ibadah\n\nIbadah (, \"‘ibādah\", also spelled ibada) is an Arabic word meaning service or servitude. In Islam, \"ibadah\" is usually translated as \"worship\", and \"ibadat\"—the plural form of \"ibadah\"—refers to Islamic jurisprudence (\"fiqh\") of Muslim religious rituals.\n\nIn Arabic \"ibadah\" is connected with related words such as \"Ubudiyyah\" (\"slavery\"), and has connotations of obedience, submission, and humility. The word linguistically means \"obedience with submission\".\n\nIn Islam, \"ibadah\" is usually translated as \"worship\" and means obedience, submission, and devotion to God. \n\nOther sources (noted Islamist author Abul A'la Maududi and others) give a broader definition of \"ibadah\", including keeping speech free \"from filth, falsehood, malice, abuse\", and dishonesty, obeying Islamic Shariah law in \"commercial and economic affairs\" and in \"dealings with your parents, relatives, friends\", and everyone else.\n\n\"Ibadat\" (عبادات ) is the plural form of \"ibādah\". In addition to meaning more than one \"ibādah\", it refers to Islamic jurisprudence (\"fiqh\") on \"the rules governing worship in Islam\" or the \"religious duties of worship incumbent on all Muslims when they come of age and are of sound body and mind\". It is distinguished from other subjects of jurisprudence in Islam which are usually known as \"muʿāmalāt\" (interpersonal transactions). \n\nIbadat include what are known as the \"pillars of Islam\": \nAccording to Oxford Islamic Studies, \"because they are of central importance to the Muslim community, the ibadat form the first subject matter of Islamic jurisprudence and most collections of prophetic traditions (hadith).\" The subject of ibadat is especially important in Islam (according to author Faleel Jamaldeen) because without these religious laws, \"Muslims would likely create their own rituals and prayers, and the religion of Islam would falter and eventually disappear.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40176122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40176122", "title": "Insolvency law of Russia", "text": "Insolvency law of Russia\n\nInsolvency law of Russia mainly includes Federal Law № 127-FZ \"On Insolvency (Bankruptcy)\" and Federal Law № 40-FZ \"On Insolvency (Bankruptcy) of Credit Institutions\".\nFederal Law № 127-FZ \"On Insolvency (Bankruptcy)\" dated 26 October 2002 (as amended) (the \"Bankruptcy Act\"), replacing the previous law in 1998, to better address the above problems and a broader failure of the action.\nRussian insolvency law is intended for a wide range of borrowers: individuals and companies of all sizes, with the exception of state-owned enterprises, government agencies, political parties and religious organizations. There are also special rules for insurance companies, professional participants of the securities market, agricultural organizations and other special laws for financial institutions and companies in the natural monopolies in the energy industry.\nFederal Law № 40-FZ \"On Insolvency (Bankruptcy) of Credit Institutions\" dated 25 February 1999 (as amended) (the \"Insolvency Law of Credit Institutions\") contains special provisions in relation to the opening of insolvency proceedings in relation to the credit company. Insolvency Provisions Act, credit organizations used in conjunction with the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act.\n\nBankruptcy law provides for the following stages of insolvency proceedings:\n\nThe main face of the bankruptcy process is the insolvency officer (trustee in bankruptcy). At various stages of bankruptcy, he has to be determined: the temporary officer, external control, the receiver or administrative officer. During the bankruptcy trustee in bankruptcy (insolvency officer) has a decisive influence on the movement of assets (property) of the debtor - the debtor and has a key influence on the economic and legal aspects of its operations.\n\nInsolvency Officer (Trustee in bankruptcy) performs the some functions of the head of the debtor and has a right to decide how the company - the debtor will continue its work, in what order will curl or develop its activities, which assets (property) will be put up for sale and under what conditions, as well as a variety of legal issues last and present activities of the debtor.\n\nInsolvency official state vary depending on the stage of the proceedings. It will:\n\nThe powers of the liquidator, depending on the phase of the competition depends on the question. For example, the interim manager has no right to manage the affairs of the debtor during the monitoring step, but has the right to do so at a later stage.\nIn the settlement process, current liabilities have priority and are satisfied before other claims are met.\nClaims priority:\n\nThe agreement between the debtor, creditors and the company under bankruptcy may be reached at any stage of the proceedings. The agreement on the settlement on behalf of the debtor must be entered:\nSettlement Agreement on behalf of the bankruptcy creditors and authorized bodies need a simple majority (50% + 1 vote) approved the bankruptcy creditors and authorized bodies for the meeting of creditors.\n\n"}
{"id": "23001520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23001520", "title": "John Keats bibliography", "text": "John Keats bibliography\n\nThe bibliography of John Keats is a list of his poetry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10145278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10145278", "title": "Journal of Genocide Research", "text": "Journal of Genocide Research\n\nThe Journal of Genocide Research is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering studies of genocide. It was established in 1999 and is published by Routledge. The editor-in-chief is A. Dirk Moses (University of Sydney). It is the official journal of the International Network of Genocide Scholars. Previous editors have been Henry R. Huttenbach, Dominik J. Schaller, and Jürgen Zimmerer. The journal is abstracted and indexed in Political Science Abstracts, Historical Abstracts, and .\n\n"}
{"id": "48757588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48757588", "title": "Kansyore Pottery", "text": "Kansyore Pottery\n\nTo understand past cultures archaeologists analyze many artifacts. Pottery proves to be of most importance to the archaeological record. Pottery is durable and even allows its broken fragments to withstand time, which would otherwise decompose other artifacts. More importantly, the style of pottery often changes through time, and shifts in shape, size, or decoration can be used to resolve the age of the artifact and/or site. Furthermore, though pottery is common, different cultures had their own distinct styles that can be used to determine its similarities or differences with one another. Therefore, even fragments of pottery can reconstruct many facets of past cultures.\n\n Throughout the ages, ceramics such as Kansyore pottery, have provided archaeologists the opportunity to study past cultures. Darla Dale and Ceri Z. Ashley state that, “[archaeological] sites with Kansyore pottery are the only hunter-gatherer sites associated with large quantities of ceramics before the beginnings of food production in East Africa at 3000 to 2000 BC”. Evenmore, Dale and Ashley put forward earlier dates that “suggest they [are] among the earliest ceramic using hunter-gatherers in East Africa”. Their research suggests that the pottery is evidence of change. The investigation into Kansyore pottery is important because it adds a new perspective on alternative hunter-gather life ways. \n\nKansyore ceramics have been found in East Africa\n(Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, southeastern Sudan). More specifically, this particular pottery is located around the Lake Victoria basin. Most sites associated with Kansyore pottery are nearby bodies of water, such rivers or lakes. For example, assemblages are “loosely concentrated” around Lake Victoria. To list a few areas and sites: \nThe concentration of Kansyore pottery in geographical areas associated with water suggests something about the hunter-gatherer’s lifeways. This settlement pattern suggests a specialized subsistence economy based on aquatic food. Furthermore, the subsistence strategy of fish and shellfish is the result of seasonal exploitation of food sources:\n\nKansyore pottery’s uniqueness is a result of applied tools and techniques. This caused the design of the pottery to display distinct decorations that covered most of the exterior surface. The vessels themselves run a spectrum from medium-sized to hemispherical bowls with varying rim designs, such as \"rounded\", \"tapered\", and occasionally \"spurred\". To classify, Dale developed an approach to identify Kansyore pottery:\nWithin each of these categories certain techniques were applied to achieve the desired design. For example, in the \"appliqué\" technique clay pieces were attached to the clay body in circular or oblong shapes, yet within the motifs categories were many variations.\n\nThe Kansyore collection from Gogo Falls is the largest known example of well-preserved Kansyore pottery, and it has been used as a reference for comparisons. Collett and Robertshaw applied the Kansyore collection from Gogo Falls to resolve classification issues with ceramics from Kantsyore Island, Nyang'oma, and Mumba-Hohle. \nThus, the ceramic assemblages found at the sites stated above belong to the Kansyore tradition. This cannot be said for other ceramic assemblages. For instance, it was believed that Kansyore pottery was discovered at the Lukenya Hill and Salasun sites. However, Collett and Robertshaw used the Gogo Falls collection as a reference, and were able to subscribe the ceramics in the central Rift Valley to the Nderit tradition.\nThe above-mentioned comparisons show that some assemblages have been wrongly identified as the Kansyore entity.\n\nSignificant non-ceramic artifacts found associated with Kansyore pottery are:\n\nThe fact that Kansyore pottery was found in varying contexts and with other artifacts illustrates transition and change. This is seen in the Early Phase of the Kansyore. To illustrate, 8 rounded pebbles were found in one test pit at Pundo, their function range from grinding red ochre to grinding plants. Bone points used for fishing were discovered at Usenge 1 and Pundo, and personal adornment, such as bone or shell beads, were found at Usenge 1, Pundo, and Siror. Thus, the non-ceramic artifacts indicate that specialized materials were already being made before the introduction of pottery.\n\nThe chronology for Kansyore has been a source of discourse for many archaeologists. Dates for Kansyore cover 6000 years with the earliest dates, 7819 to 6590 cal. BC, coming from Luanda in Kenya, while the latest dates, AD 1-120, coming from Wadh Lang'o.\n\nThe overbearing time frame of the dates briefed above has caused many to question the validity of the Kansyore tradition. D.P Collett and P.T. Robertshaw assert that \"dates associated with Kansyore assemblages cover a long period.\" Their recounting of Mehlmans' skepticism, however, results from the fact that \"either a very conservative tradition or large dating errors\" disallow for accurate chronology. Evidence suggest that the former reasoning is the cause for the chronology, and the dating for Kansyore pottery from East Africa suggest that it was a long lived tradition.\n\nChronology is important to Dale's and Ashley's research. With their findings, they were able to ascertain two phases of the Kansyore tradition. First is the Early Phase, which was 5468-5299 cal. BC. Second is the Late Terminal Kansyore Phase, which dates to the mid-second millennium BC and terminal second early first millennia cal BC.\n\nThe Early Phase is illustrated at sites such as Siror, Pundo, and Usenge 1. In Siror dated material corroborate with Dale's and Ashley's sequence of the Early Phase. For example, a radiocarbon date of charcoal, found in Trench 1, is dated to 5468-5299 BC. The typology of ceramics found in the Early phase at Siror is the \"punctate\" motif, while the Late Terminal phase shows a high frequency of the \"rocker-stamp motif\". The Late Terminal Kansyore Phase is identified at Usenge 3 and Trench 2 in Siror. Again, artifacts radiocarbon dates, ranging from 3310 +/1 40 BP and 3240 +/- 70 BP, supports Dale's sequence of the Kansyore tradition. Missing in the sequence is a phase for the middle Kansyore period because more research is needed to develop a full picture of change, yet the dating provided by the sequence allows reconstruction of the Kansyore tradition.\n\nThe above-mentioned sections illustrate the amount of research into the Kansyore tradition. Research into the Kansyore has provided more insight into the lifeways of those who created the pottery. Artifacts, such as pottery, in which the originators are no longer tangible entities, allow archaeologists the ability to interpret it.\n\nDale and Ashley illustrate the difference between Early and Late Kansyore by using ceramic and non-ceramic archaeological material from Siror, and at the same time speak about the culture of the pottery makers. Thus, in the early phase of Siror, the large quantities of fish bones suggest that many people whom had a fish-based subsistence economy occupied the site. As stated above, ceramic evidence at the early phase was punctate, but shifted to rocker-stamped motif in the later Kansyore period. With the shift in ceramic decoration, more emphasis on terrestrial mammals for subsistence became apparent.\n\nThe transition to the use of ceramics was not a swift transition. In fact, evidence shows that ceramic use was slowly applied and may have come after specialized subsistence economies. For instance, shell middens in Usenge 1 and Pundo show low ceramic density. Even more, non-ceramic artifacts, such as bone points, indicate that other material culture linked to specific activities and economies existed before ceramics. Nonetheless, even if the transition to ceramic use was slow and part of a process of change, by the Early Kansyore Phase, 5648-5299 cal. BC, it became a central part of the economy.\n\nEvidence for a shift in subsistence economy and social relations in the Later Terminal Kansyore Phase is seen in Siror and Usenge 3. At these sites a decline of fish resource exploitation is experienced and a rise in terrestrial mammals is emphasized. For example, in Usenge 3 the upper layers of deposit including terrestrial animals, such as cattle, overlaid a Kansyore shell midden. In addition to the terrestrial animals, the Kansyore ceramics in the upper layers of deposit depicted a decline in decoration and technological quality. This is taken as evidence for social contact with late hunter-gather-fishers and farming societies. Thus, in the Later Terminal Kansyore Phase, the fishing to hunting society was going through a local change brought on by contact with other societies.\n"}
{"id": "52755273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52755273", "title": "Memory laws", "text": "Memory laws\n\nA memory law (French \"loi mémorielle\", German \"Erinnerungsgesetz\") is a law that enshrines state-approved interpretations of particular historical events and promotes certain narratives about the past, often at the expense of alternative historical interpretations. Memory laws are important elements of state-sanctioned politics of memory.\n\nMemory laws are found in both hard law and soft law.\nAnother conceptual binary is division between positive and negative memory laws.\n\nPeace of Westphalia is considered as example of forgiveness of oblivion model, the same as more contemporary Pact of Forgetting in post-Franco Spain and the thick line policy of Tadeusz Mazowiecki's government in Poland.\n\nThe model of zelous remembrance is examplified by actions of Jacobins during the French Revolution and by ‘War Guilt Clause” in Treaty of Versailles which ended the First World War.\n\n\n\nFramework decision on combatting racism and other forms of antisemitism from 2008.\n\nEuropean Union: EU Parliament resolution of 1 April 2009 on European Conscience and Totalitarianism, European Parliament resolution of 15 April 2015 on the centenary of the Armenian Genocide.\n\nGenocide law (Albania)\n\n2016 amendments to ban on communist symbols\n\nFundamental law that implies the narrative of occupation of Estonia by the Soviet Union instead of narrative of voluntary incorporation of the Estonian Republic.\n\nProhibitions on the denial of Soviet repression.\n\nFrance criminalizes denial, minimizing, and grossly abating Holocaust and other genocides recognized by international tribunals on the grounds of the first of the French lois memorielles \"loi Gayssot\" and subsequent judicial reviews by Constitutional Council. In 2001 on the grounds of \"loi Taubira\" France officially condemned historical slave trade as crime against humanity. In counterpoint, in 2005 the country adopted loi \"Mekacher\" with provisions ordering to include information about positive elements of French presence in colonies, in particular in North Africa. Those controversial elements of the law were later on struck as unconstitutional by the Conseil Constitutionnel.\n\n2011 Fundamental Law (the Constitution) which establishes a radical cesura between the past and present Hungarian State.\n\n1998 laws against the denial of Soviet-era atrocities.\n\n2016 amendement to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrancee, punishing up to three years imprisonment for intentional referring to concentration and extermination camps built and run by Nazi Germany on the occupied Polish territory during the Second World War as “Polish death/concentration camps”.\n\nAccess to Russian archives on the Katyn Massacre pronoucned in the European Court of Human Rights judgment \"Janowiec and Others v. Russia\" in 2012.\n\nLaws easening granting citizenship to descendant of Sephardic Jews expulsed in 1492 by the Alhambra Decree.\n\nHistorical Memory Law from 2007, amended in 2016, aimed at coming to terms with General Franco regime, which reversed the previous policy of oblivion known as Pact of Forgetting.\n\n2006 law against denying the Holodomor\".\"\n\n2015 Ukrainian decommunization laws.\n\n2016 ban on communist symbols\n\n2014 Federal Law which defends positive narrative about the Soviet Union based on dominant Russian narratives about Great Patriotic War and the USSR’s role in defeating Nazi Germany, known as law against public rehabilitation of Nazism.\n\nThe barriers to the commemoration of the mass displacement of Palestinians in Israel, so-called Nakba laws. See also Arab school in Haifa controversy.\n\nBangladesh\n\n2016 draft Liberation War Denial Crimes Act\n\nLaws aiming at overturning Amnesty Laws dating back to Gen. Augusto Pinochet military dictatorship.\n\nCanadian Aboriginal Law\n\n2003 Law No. 33n bis/2003 of 2003 Repressing the Crime of Genocide, Crimes Against Humanity and War Crimes\n\n2008 Law No. 18/2008 of 2008 Relating to the Punishment of the Crime of Genocide Ideology\n\n1996 South African Constitution in the preamble recognizes injustices of the past (Apartheid) with aim to heal the divisions and establish more just and democratic society.\n\nLaws concerning indigenous Australians\n\nThe Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide from 1948\n\n\nMemory laws may impose limits on democratic freedoms of expression, association, the media, or on scholarly research. Some memory laws allow state for ordering of public attitudes towards nationhood, ethnicity, race, religion, and class. Ivan Kurilla noted that while the first European memory laws \"were propagated by left-wing political forces aiming to preserve the memory of oppressed groups and the crimes of their states\", newer laws are increasingly \"backed by pro-state right-wing politicians that seek to create a heroic national narrative and legislate away any doubt about the state’s historical righteousness\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42209082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42209082", "title": "Modern history of Ukraine", "text": "Modern history of Ukraine\n\nUkraine emerges as the concept of a nation, and the Ukrainians as a nationality, with the Ukrainian National Revival which is believed started sometime at the end of 18th and the beginning of 19th century. According to Ukrainian historian Yaroslav Hrytsak, the first wave of national revival is traditionally connected with publication of the first part of \"Eneyida\" by Ivan Kotlyarevsky (1798). In 1846 in Moscow was published \"Istoriya Rusov ili Maloi Rossii\" (History of Ruthenians or Little Russia). During the Spring of Nations, in 1848 in Lemberg (Lviv) was created Supreme Ruthenian Council which declared that Galician Ruthenians are part of bigger Ukrainian nation. The council adopted the yellow and blue flag (Flag of Ukraine).\n\nUkraine first declared its independence with the invasion of Bolsheviks in the late of 1917. Following the conclusion of the World War I and with the peace of Riga, Ukraine was partitioned once again between Poland and the Bolshevik Russia, which on its occupied territory created own puppet state of its pocket communist party, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.\n\nIn 1922, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, together with the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Transcaucasian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic, became the founding member of the Soviet Union. The Soviet famine of 1932–33 or Holodomor killed an estimated 6 to 8 million people in the Soviet Union, the majority of them in Ukraine.\n\nStarting out the World War II with the Nazi Germany and being excluded from the League of Nations, in 1941 the Soviet Union was invaded by Germany and its other allies. Many Ukrainians initially regarded the Wehrmacht soldiers as liberators from Soviet rule, while others formed an anti-German partisan movement. Some elements of the Ukrainian nationalist underground formed a Ukrainian Insurgent Army that fought both Soviet and Nazi forces.\n\nSometime after the deportation of Crimean Tatars, in 1954 the Crimean Oblast was transferred from the RSFSR to the Ukrainian SSR.\n\nWith the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, Ukraine became an independent state, formalised with a referendum on December 1.\nWith the 2004 enlargement of the European Union, Ukraine now became an area of overlapping spheres of influence of the European Union and the Russian Federation. This manifested in a political split between the \"pro-Russian\" Eastern Ukraine, and the \"pro-European\" Western Ukraine, leading to an ongoing period of political turmoil, beginning with the \"Orange Revolution\" of 2004, and culminating in 2014 with the \"Euromaidan\" uprising and the Crimean Crisis, in which Crimea fell under the control of the Russian Federation.\n\nFollowing the 17th century failed attempt to regain statehood in form of Cossack Hetmanate, the future Ukrainian territory again ended up divided between three empires, the Russian Empire, the Ottoman Empire and the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nIn the second half of the 18th century the Catherinine Russian Empire instigated a hysteria in local Eastern Orthodox population by promising protection from Catholicism and support leading to an armed conflict Koliyivshchyna in the neighboring right-bank Ukraine which was part of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and resulting in the Polish Bar Confederation, Russian military invasion of Poland and its internal affairs, and successful partitions of the last. By the end of 18th century most of Ukraine was completely annexed by Russia. At the same time the Catherinine Russia gradually gained control over the area of Black Sea coast (northern Pontic coast) which was part the Ottoman realm at the conclusion of the Russo-Turkish Wars of 1735–39, 1768–74, 1787–92.\n\nThe lands were generously given to the nobility and the unfree peasantry were transferred to cultivate the Pontic steppe. Forcing the local Nogai population out and resettling the Crimean Greeks, Catherine the Great renamed all populated places and invited other European settlers to these newly conquered lands: Poles, Germans (Black Sea Germans, Crimea Germans, Volga Germans), Swiss, and others. To the southern Ukraine were deported some Estonian Swedes. Since then there exists the old Swedish village of Gammalsvenskby–Zmiivka.\nUkrainian writers and intellectuals were inspired by the nationalistic spirit stirring other European peoples existing under other imperial governments.\nRussia, fearing separatism, imposed strict limits on attempts to elevate the Ukrainian language and culture, even banning its use and study. The Russophile policies of Russification and Panslavism led to an exodus of a number some Ukrainian intellectuals into Western Ukraine, while others empbraced a Pan-Slavic or Russian identity, with many Russian authors or composers of the 19th century being of Ukrainian origin (notably Nikolai Gogol and Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky).\n\nIn the Austrian Empire most of the elite that ruled Galicia were of Austrian or Polish descent, with the Ruthenians mostly representing the peasantry. During the 19th century, Russophilia was a common occurrence among the Slavic population, but the mass exodus of Ukrainian intellectuals escaping from Russian repression in Eastern Ukraine, as well as the intervention of Austrian authorities, caused the movement to be replaced by Ukrainophilia, which would then cross-over into the Russian Empire.\n\nWhen World War I and series of revolutions across Europe, including the October Revolution in Russia, shattered many existing empires such as the Austrian and Russian ones, people of Ukraine were caught in the middle. Between 1917 and 1919, several separate Ukrainian republics manifested independence, the anarchist Free Territory, the Ukrainian People's Republic, the West Ukrainian People's Republic, and numerous Bolshevik revkoms.\n\nAs the area of Ukraine fell into warfare and anarchy, it was also fought over by German and Austrian forces, the Red Army of Bolshevik Russia, the White Forces of General Denikin, the Polish Army, anarchists led by Nestor Makhno. Kiev itself was occupied by many different armies. The city was captured by the Bolsheviks on 9 February 1918, by the Germans on 2 March 1918, by the Bolsheviks a second time on 5 February 1919, by the White Army on 31 August 1919, by Bolsheviks for a third time on 15 December 1919, by the Polish Army on 6 \nMay 1920, and finally by the Bolsheviks for the fourth time on 12 June 1920.\n\nThe defeat in the Polish-Ukrainian War and then the failure of the Piłsudski's and Petliura's \"Warsaw agreement of 1920\" to oust the Bolsheviks during the Kiev Operation led almost to the occupation of Poland itself. In course of the new Polish-Soviet War purpose of which changed from the 1920 led to the signing of the Peace of Riga in March 1921, and after which the part of Ukraine west of Zbruch had been incorporated into Poland, and the east became part of the Soviet Union as the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. The capital of Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic was Kharkiv; in 1934, the capital was relocated to Kiev.\n\nThe Ukrainian national idea lived on during the inter-war years and was even spread to a large territory with traditionally mixed population in the east and south that became part of the Ukrainian Soviet republic. The Ukrainian culture even enjoyed a revival due to Bolshevik concessions in the early Soviet years (until the early-1930s) known as the policy of Korenization (\"indigenisation\"). In these years, an impressive Ukrainization program was implemented throughout the republic.\n\nThe rapidly developed Ukrainian language based education system dramatically raised the literacy of the Ukrainophone rural population. Simultaneously, the newly-literate ethnic Ukrainians migrated to the cities, which became rapidly largely Ukrainianised—in both population and in education. Similarly expansive was an increase in Ukrainian language publishing and overall eruption of Ukrainian cultural life.\n\nAt the same time, the usage of Ukrainian was continuously encouraged in the workplace and in the government affairs as the recruitment of indigenous cadre was implemented as part of the korenisation policies. While initially, the party and government apparatus was mostly Russian-speaking, by the end of the 1920s the ethnic Ukrainians composed over one half of the membership in the Ukrainian communist party, the number strengthened by accession of Borotbists, a formerly indigenously Ukrainian \"independentist\" and non-Bolshevik communist party.\n\nDespite the ongoing Soviet Union-wide antireligious campaign, the Ukrainian national Orthodox church was created called the Ukrainian Autocephalous Orthodox Church (UAOC). The Bolshevik government initially saw the national church as a tool in their goal to suppress the Russian Orthodox Church always viewed with the great suspicion by the regime for its being the cornerstone of pre-revolutionary Russian Empire and the initially strong opposition it took towards the regime change. Therefore, the government tolerated the new Ukrainian national church for some time and the UAOC gained a wide following among the Ukrainian peasantry.\n\nThe change in the Soviet economic policies towards the fast-pace industrialisation was marked by the 1928 introduction of Joseph Stalin's first piatiletka (a five-year plan). The industrialisation brought about a dramatic economic and social transformation in traditionally agricultural Ukraine. In the first piatiletkas the industrial output of Ukraine quadrupled as the republic underwent a record industrial development. The massive influx of the rural population to the industrial centres increased the urban population from 19% to 34%.\n\nHowever, the industrialisation had a heavy cost for the peasantry, demographically a backbone of the Ukrainian nation. To satisfy the state's need for increased food supplies and finance industrialisation, Stalin instituted a program of collectivisation of agriculture, which profoundly affected Ukraine, often referred to as the \"breadbasket of the USSR\". In the late 1920s and early 1930s, the state combined the peasants' lands and animals into collective farms. Starting in 1929, a policy of enforcement was applied, using regular troops and secret police to confiscate lands and materials where necessary.\n\nMany resisted, and a desperate struggle by the peasantry against the authorities ensued. Some slaughtered their livestock rather than turn it over to the collectives. Wealthier peasants were labeled \"kulaks\", enemies of the state. Tens of thousands were executed and about 100,000 families were deported to Siberia and Kazakhstan.\n\nForced collectivisation had a devastating effect on agricultural productivity. Despite this, in 1932 the Soviet government increased Ukraine's production quotas by 44%, ensuring that they could not be met. Soviet law required that the members of a collective farm would receive no grain until government quotas were satisfied. The authorities in many instances exacted such high levels of procurement from collective farms that starvation became widespread.\n\nThe Soviet famine of 1932–33, called Holodomor in Ukrainian, claimed up to 10 million Ukrainian lives as peasants' food stocks were forcibly removed by Stalin's regime by the NKVD secret police. As elsewhere, the precise number of deaths by starvation in Ukraine may never be precisely known. That said, the most recent demographic studies suggest that over 4 million Ukrainians perished in the first six months of 1933 alone, a figure that increases if population losses from 1931, 1932 and 1934 are also included, along with those from adjacent territories inhabited primarily by Ukrainians (but politically part of the Russian Federated Soviet Socialist Republic), such as the Kuban.\n\nThe Soviet Union suppressed information about this genocide, and as late as the 1980s admitted only that there was some hardship because of kulak sabotage and bad weather. Today, its existence is accepted. Non-Soviets maintain that the famine was an avoidable, deliberate act of genocide.\n\nThe times of industrialisation and collectivisation also brought about a wide campaign against \"nationalist deviation\" which in Ukraine translated into an assault on the national political and cultural elite. The first wave of purges between 1929 and 1934 targeted the revolutionary generation of the party that in Ukraine included many supporters of Ukrainization. The next 1936–1938 wave of political purges eliminated much of the new political generation that replaced those that perished in the first wave and halved the membership of the Ukrainian communist party.\n\nThe purged Ukrainian political leadership was largely replaced by the cadre sent from Russia that was also largely \"rotated\" by Stalin's purges. As the policies of Ukrainisation were halted (1931) and replaced by massive Russification approximately four-fifths of the Ukrainian cultural elite, intellectuals, writers, artists and clergy, had been \"eliminated\", executed or imprisoned, in the following decade. Mass arrests of the hierarchy and clergy of the Ukrainian Autocephalous Orthodox Church culminated in the liquidation of the church in 1930.\n\nFollowing the end of World War I, the eastern part of the former Austrian province of Galicia, as well as Volhynia, which had belonged to the Russian Empire, became the area of a Polish-Ukrainian War. The Ukrainians claimed these lands because they made up the majority of population there (except for cities, such as Lviv), while the Poles saw these provinces as Eastern Borderlands, a historical part of their country. The war was won by the Poles, and their rule over these disputed lands was cemented after another Polish victory, in the Polish-Soviet War. While some Ukrainians supported Poland, their hopes for independence or autonomy were quickly dashed.\n\nIn the interbellum period, eastern Galicia was divided into three administrative units — Lwów Voivodeship, Stanisławów Voivodeship, and Tarnopol Voivodeship, while in Volhynia, Wołyń Voivodeship was created. The Ukrainian majority of these lands was often treated as second class citizens by the Polish authorities. The conflict escalated in the 1930s, with terrorist actions of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists resulting in increasingly heavy-handed actions by the Polish government. The tensions were further exacerbated by arrival of thousands of osadniks, or Polish settlers, who were granted land, especially in Volhynia. Henryk Józewski advocated a self-governance autonomy for Ukrainians in Volhynia 1928–1938.\n\nPolish rule over the provinces ended in September 1939, following Nazi and Soviet attack. After the Battle of Lviv, units of the Red Army entered regional capital, Lviv, and following the staged Elections to the People's Assemblies of Western Ukraine and Western Belarus, both eastern Galicia and Volhynia were annexed by the Soviet Union.\n\nA few days after the Germans invaded Poland, Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin told an aide his long-term goal was the spread of Communism in Eastern Europe: \n\nNow [Poland] is a fascist state, oppressing the Ukrainians, Belorussians and so forth. The annihilation of that state under current conditions would mean one fewer bourgeois fascist state to contend with! What would be the harm if as a result of the rout off Poland we were to extend the socialist system onto new territories and populations.\n\nHistorian Geoffrey Roberts notes that the comments marked a change from the previous \"popular front\" policy of Communist Party cooperation with other parties. He adds, \"Stalin's immediate purpose was to present an ideological rationale for the Red Army's forthcoming invasion of Poland\" and his main message was the need to avoid a revolutionary civil war.\" Historian Timothy D. Snyder suggests that, \"Stalin may have reasoned that returning Galicia and Volhynia to Soviet Ukraine would help co-opt Ukrainian nationalism. Stalin perhaps saw a way to give both Ukrainians and Poles something they wanted, while binding them to the USSR.\"\n\nFollowing the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact, in September 1939, German and Soviet troops divided the territory of Poland, including Galicia with its Ukrainian population. Next, after France surrendered to Germany, Romania ceded Bessarabia and northern Bukovina to Soviet demands. The Ukrainian SSR incorporated northern and southern districts of Bessarabia, the northern Bukovina, and additionally the Soviet-occupied Hertsa region, but ceded the western part of the Moldavian ASSR to the newly created Moldavian SSR. All these territorial gains were internationally recognized by the Paris Peace Treaties, 1947.\nWhen Nazi Germany with its allies invaded the Soviet Union in 1941, many Ukrainians and Polish people, particularly in the west where they had experienced two years of harsh Soviet rule, initially regarded the Wehrmacht soldiers as liberators. Retreating Soviets murdered thousands of prisoners. Some Ukrainian activists of the national movement hoped for a momentum to establish an independent state of Ukraine. German policies initially gave some encouragement to such hopes through the vague promises of sovereign 'Greater Ukraine' as the Germans were trying to take advantage of anti-Soviet, anti-Ukrainian, anti-Polish, and anti-Jewish sentiments. A local Ukrainian auxiliary police was formed as well as Ukrainian SS division, 14th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS Galicia (1st Ukrainian). However, after the initial period of a limited tolerance, the German policies soon abruptly changed and the Ukrainian national movement was brutally crushed.\n\nSome Ukrainians, however, utterly resisted the Nazi onslaught from its start and a partisan movement immediately spread over the occupied territory. Some elements of the Ukrainian nationalist underground formed a Ukrainian Insurgent Army that fought both Soviet and Nazi forces. In some western regions of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Insurgent Army survived underground and continued the resistance against the Soviet authorities well into the 1950s, though many Ukrainian civilians were murdered in this conflict by both sides.\nThe Nazi administrators of conquered Soviet territories made little attempt to exploit the population's possible dissatisfaction with Soviet political and economic policies. Instead, the Nazis preserved the collective-farm system, systematically carried out genocidal policies against Jews, and deported many Ukrainians to forced labour in Germany. In their active resistance to Nazi Germany, the Ukrainians comprised a significant share of the Red Army and its leadership as well as the underground and resistance movements.\n\nTotal civilian losses during the War and German occupation in Ukraine are estimated at seven million, including over a million Jews shot and killed by the \"Einsatzgruppen\".\n\nMany civilians fell victim to atrocities, forced labor, and even massacres of whole villages in reprisal for attacks against Nazi forces. Of the estimated eleven million Soviet troops who fell in battle against the Nazis, about 16% (1.7 million) were ethnic Ukrainians. Moreover, Ukraine saw some of the biggest battles of the war starting with the encirclement of Kiev (the city itself fell to the Germans on 19 September 1941 and was later acclaimed as a \"Hero City\") where more than 660,000 Soviet troops were taken captive, to the fierce defence of Odessa, and on to the victorious storming across the Dnieper river. According to the researcher Rolf Michaelis who is referring to the SS-Hauptamt's document No. 8699/42, the Police Battalion \"Ostland\" (Field Post Number 47769) resided in the Reichskommissariat Ukraine in 1941–1942, and was one of the main executioners of the Jews. The Police Battalion \"Ostland\" was an Ordnungspolizei unit that served in World War II under the command of the Schutzstaffel. The battalion established in October 1941 carried out punitive duties.\n\nOn June 28, 1941 the town of Rivne (Równe) was captured by Nazi Germany, which later established the city as the administrative centre of the Reichskommissariat Ukraine. In July 1941 the 1st company of the Police Battalion \"Ostland\" was in Frankfurt, the rest of the battalion was in Rivne. In October 1941 the battalion was sent to Lviv (Lwów). At the time, roughly half of Równe's inhabitants were Jewish. About 23,000 of these people were taken to a pine grove in Sosenki and slaughtered by the 1st company of the Police Battalion \"Ostland\" between the November 6, and 8, 1941 (1st company). A ghetto was established for the remaining ca 5,000 Jews. As reported on May 11, 1942, ca 1,000 Jews were executed in Minsk.\n\nOn July 13–14, 1942, the remaining population of the Równe ghetto – about 5,000 Jews – was sent by train some 70 kilometres north to Kostopil (Kostopol) where they were murdered by the 1st company of the Police Battalion \"Ostland\" in a quarry near woods outside the town. The Równe ghetto was subsequently liquidated. As reported on July 14, 1942: The battalion or elements of it provided security along with the Ukrainische Hilfspolizei for a transport of the Jews from the Riga Ghetto to the Riga Central Station using the wagons (1st company). July 15, 1942 another thousand Jews were executed in the same place. As reported on June 27, 1942, ca 8,000 Jews were executed near the town of Słonim. As reported on July 28, 1942, ca 6,000 Jews were executed in Minsk.\n\nIn November 1942 the Police Battalion Ostland together with an artillery regiment, and three other German Ordnungspolizei battalions under the command of \"Befehlshaber der Ordnungspolizei im Reichskommissariat Ukraine\" and \"SS-Gruppenführer und Generalleutnant der Polizei\" , took part in a joint anti-partisan operation near Ovruch (Owrucz) with over 50 villages burnt down and over 1,500 people executed. In a village 40 people were burnt alive for revenge for the killing of the SS-Untersturmführer Türnpu(u). In February 1943 the battalion was sent to Reval, Estland with Polizei Füsilier Bataillon 293. By March 31, 1943, the Estnische Legion had 37 officers, 175 noncoms and 62 privates of the Police Battalion \"Ostland\".\n\nKiev was recaptured by the Soviet Red Army on 6 November 1943.\n\nDuring a period of March 1943 to the end of 1944 Ukrainian Insurgent Army committed several massacres on Polish civilian population in Volhynia and Eastern Galicia having every signs of genocide (Massacres of Poles in Volhynia and Eastern Galicia). The death toll numbered up to 100 000, mostly children and women.\n\nLate October 1944 the last territory of current Ukraine (near Uzhhorod, then part of the Kingdom of Hungary) was cleared of Germany troops; this is annually celebrated in Ukraine (on 28 October) as the \"anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from the Nazis\".\n\nAfter World War II some amendments to the Constitution of the Ukrainian SSR were accepted, which allowed it to act as a separate subject of international law in some cases and to a certain extent, remaining a part of the Soviet Union at the same time. In particular, these amendments allowed the Ukrainian SSR to become one of founding members of the United Nations (UN) together with the Soviet Union and the Byelorussian SSR. This was part of a deal with the United States to ensure a degree of balance in the General Assembly, which, the USSR opined, was unbalanced in favor of the Western Bloc. In its capacity as a member of the UN, the Ukrainian SSR was an elected member of the United Nations Security Council in 1948–1949 and 1984–1985.\n\nOver the next decades, the Ukrainian republic not only surpassed pre-war levels of industry and production but also was the spearhead of Soviet power. Ukraine became the centre of Soviet arms industry and high-tech research. The republic was also turned into a Soviet military outpost in the cold war, a territory crowded by military bases packed with the most up-to-date weapons systems.\n\nSuch an important role resulted in a major influence of the local elite. Many members of the Soviet leadership came from Ukraine, most notably Nikita Khrushchev and Leonid Brezhnev a Soviet leader from 1964 to 1982, as well as many prominent Soviet sportsmen, scientists and artists. In 1954, the Russian-populated oblast of Crimea was transferred from the Russian to the Ukrainian Soviet Republic.\n\nHowever, the relatively underdeveloped industrial branches such as coal- and iron ore mining, metallurgy, chemical and energy industry dominated the republic's economy. Once a Cossack steppe, the southern oblasts of Dnipropetrovsk and Zaporizhzhia were turned into a highly industrialised area with rapidly increasing impact on its environment and public health. A pursuit to energy production sufficient for growing industry led to the gigantic nature-remastering: turning the Dnieper River into a regulated system of large reservoirs.\n\nThe products of the rapidly developed high-tech industry in Ukraine were largely directed for military consumption, similarly to much of the Soviet economy, and the supply and quality of consumer goods remained low compared even to the neighboring countries of the Eastern bloc. A state-regulated system of production and consumption lead to gradual decrease of quality of life and growing \"shadowisation\" of retail infrastructure as well as of corruption.\nThe town of Pripyat, Ukraine was the site of the Chernobyl disaster, which occurred on April 26, 1986 when a nuclear plant exploded. The fallout contaminated large areas of northern Ukraine and even parts of Belarus. This spurred on a local independence movement called the Rukh that helped expedite the break-up of the Soviet Union during the late 1980s.\n\nOn January 21, 1990, over 300,000 Ukrainians organised a human chain for Ukrainian independence between Kiev and Lviv, in memory of the 1919 unification of the Ukrainian People's Republic and the West Ukrainian National Republic. Citizens came out to the streets and highways, forming live chains by holding hands in support of unity.\n\nUkraine officially declared itself an independent state on August 24, 1991, when the communist Supreme Soviet (parliament) of Ukraine proclaimed that Ukraine will no longer follow the laws of USSR and only the laws of the Ukrainian SSR, de facto declaring Ukraine's independence from the Soviet Union. On December 1, Ukrainian voters overwhelmingly approved a referendum formalising independence from the Soviet Union. Over 90% of Ukrainian citizens voted for independence, with majorities in every region, including 56% in Crimea, which had a 75% ethnic Russian population. The Soviet Union formally ceased to exist on December 26, when the presidents of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia (the founding members of the USSR) met in Belovezh Pushcha to formally dissolve the Union in accordance with the Soviet Constitution. And with this Ukraine's independence was formalized de jure and recognised by the international community.\n\nPoland and Canada were the first countries to recognize Ukraine's independence (both) on 2 December 1991.\n\nThe history of Ukraine between 1991 and 2004 was marked by the presidencies of Leonid Kravchuk and Leonid Kuchma. This was a time of transition for Ukraine. While it had attained nominal independence from Russia, its presidents maintained close ties with their neighbours.\n\nOn June 1, 1996, Ukraine became a non-nuclear nation when it sent the last of its 1,900 strategic nuclear warheads it had inherited from the Soviet Union to Russia for dismantling.; Ukraine had committed to this by signing the Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances in January 1994.\n\nThe country adopted its constitution on June 28, 1996.\n\nThe Cassette Scandal of 2000 was one of the turning points in post-independence history of the country.\n\nIn 2004, Leonid Kuchma announced that he would not run for re-election. Two major candidates emerged in the 2004 presidential election. Viktor Yanukovych, the incumbent Prime Minister, supported by both Kuchma and by the Russian Federation, wanted closer ties with Russia. The main opposition candidate, Viktor Yushchenko, called for Ukraine to turn its attention westward and eventually join the EU.\n\nIn the runoff election, Yanukovych officially won by a narrow margin, but Yushchenko and his supporters cried foul, alleging that vote rigging and intimidation cost him many votes, especially in eastern Ukraine. A political crisis erupted after the opposition started massive street protests in Kiev and other cities, and the Supreme Court of Ukraine ordered the election results null and void. A second runoff found Viktor Yushchenko the winner. Five days later, Viktor Yanukovych resigned from office and his cabinet was dismissed on January 5, 2005.\n\nIn March 2006, the Verkhovna Rada elections took place and three months later the official government was formed by the \"Anti-Crisis Coalition\" among the \"Party of Regions\", \"Communist\", and \"Socialist\" parties. The latter party switched from the \"Orange Coalition\" with \"Our Ukraine\", and the \"Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc\". The new coalition nominated Viktor Yanukovych for the post of Prime Minister. Yanukovych once again became Prime Minister, while the leader of the Socialist Party, Oleksander Moroz, managed to secure the position of chairman of parliament, which is believed by many to have been the reason for his leaving the Orange Coalition, where he had not been considered for this position.\n\nOn April 2, 2007, President Yushchenko dissolved the Verkhovna Rada because members of his party were defecting to the opposition. His opponents called the move unconstitutional. When they took the matter to the Constitutional Court, Yushchenko dismissed 3 of the court's 18 judges, accusing them of corruption.\n\nDuring the Yushchenko term, relations between Russia and Ukraine often appeared strained as Yushchenko looked towards improved relations with the European Union and less toward Russia. In 2005, a highly publicized dispute over natural gas prices took place, involving Russian state-owned gas supplier Gazprom, and indirectly involving many European countries which depend on natural gas supplied by Russia through the Ukrainian pipeline. A compromise was reached in January 2006, and in early 2010 a further agreement was signed locking the price of Russian gas at $100 per 1,000 cubic meters in an exclusive arrangement.\n\nBy the time of the presidential election of 2010, Yushchenko and Tymoshenko — allies during the Orange Revolution — had become bitter enemies. Tymoshenko ran for president against both Yushchenko and Viktor Yanukovych, creating a three-way race. Yushchenko, whose popularity had plummeted, refused to close ranks and support Tymoshenko, thus dividing the anti-Yanukovych vote. Many pro-Orange voters stayed home. Yanukovych received 48% of the vote and Yushchenko less than 6%, an amount which, if thrown to Tymoshenko, who received 45%, would have prevented Yanukovych from gaining the presidency; since no candidate obtained an absolute majority in the first round of voting the two highest polling candidates contested in a run-off second ballot which Yanukovych won.\n\nDuring Yanukovych's term he has been accused of tightening of press restrictions and a renewed effort in the parliament to limit freedom of assembly. When young, Yanukovych was sentenced to 3 years because of theft, looting and vandalism and later had his sentenced doubled.\n\nIn November 2013, President Yanukovych did not sign the Ukraine–European Union Association Agreement and instead pursued closer ties with Russia. This move sparked protests on the streets of Kiev. Protesters set up camps in Maidan Nezalezhnosti (Independence Square), and in December2013 and January 2014 protesters started taking over various government buildings, first in Kiev and, later, in Western Ukraine. Battles between protesters and police resulted in about 80 deaths in February 2014.\n\nFollowing the violence, the Parliament turned against Yanukovych and on February 22 voted to remove him from power, and to free Yulia Tymoshenko from prison. The same day Yanukovych supporter Volodymyr Rybak resigned as speaker of the Parliament, and was replaced by Tymoshenko loyalist Oleksandr Turchynov, who was subsequently installed as interim President. Yanukovych fled Kiev.\n\nCivil unrest broke out in Kiev as part of Ukraine's Euromaidan protest movement against the government.\nThe conflict escalated rapidly, leading to the downfall of the government of President Viktor Yanukovych and the setting up of a new government to replace it within a few days. \nYanukovych fled to Russia and is wanted in Ukraine for the killing of protesters. Russia in particular holds that the transition was a \"coup\".\n\nConflict continued with the February–March Crimean crisis when Russian forces seized control of the Crimea region. Crimea was unilaterally annexed by Russia on 18 March 2014.\n\nThe Crimean crisis was followed by pro-Russian unrest in east Ukraine and south Ukraine. In April 2014 Ukrainian separatists self-proclaimed the Donetsk People's Republic and Lugansk People's Republic and held referendums on 11 May 2014; the separatists claimed nearly 90% voted in favour of independence. Later in April 2014 fighting between the Ukrainian army and pro-Ukrainian volunteer battalions against forces supporting the Donetsk People's Republic and Lugansk People's Republic escalated into the War in Donbass. More than 6,400 people have died in this conflict and according to United Nations figures it led to over half a million people internally displaced within Ukraine and two hundred thousand refugees to flee to (mostly) Russia and other neighbouring countries.\n"}
{"id": "1419264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1419264", "title": "Modistae", "text": "Modistae\n\nThe Modistae (Latin for \"Modists\"), also known as the speculative grammarians, were the members of a school of grammarian philosophy known as Modism or speculative grammar, active in northern France, Germany, England, and Denmark in the 13th and 14th centuries. Their influence was felt much less in the southern part of Europe, where the somewhat opposing tradition of the so-called \"pedagogical grammar\" never lost its preponderance. \nWilliam of Conches, Peter Helias, and Ralph of Beauvais, also referred to as speculative grammarians predate the Modist movement proper.\n\nThe Modist philosophy was first developed by Martin of Dacia (died 1304) and his colleagues in the mid-13th century, though it would rise to prominence only after its systematization by Thomas of Erfurt decades later, in his treatise \"De modis significandi seu grammatica speculativa\", probably written in the first decade of the 14th century. Until the early twentieth-century this work was assumed to have been authored by John Duns Scotus. Widely reproduced and commented upon in the Middle Ages, it remains the most complete textbook of Modist speculative grammar. The mistaken authorship arose out of the natural affinity of Erfurt's speculative grammar with Scotus's metaphysics.\n\nThe philosophy of the Modistae, as indicated by their name, was based on a theory of 'modes' of meaning in language which was tripartite: modes of being (\"modi essendi\"), modes of understanding (\"modi intelligendi\"), and modes of signifying (\"modi significandi\"). To the Modistae, the various parts of speech were viewed as representing reality in terms of these modes. The \"modi essendi\" are objectively existent qualities in an object of understanding, the \"modi intelligendi\" the understanding's means of representing the \"modi essendi\", and the \"modi significandi\" grammar's means of representing the \"modi intelligendi\" in language. This corresponds to Aristotle's tripartite semantic theory of \"words\" representing \"concepts\" which represent \"objects\".\n\nOpposing nominalism, they assumed that the analysis of the grammar of ordinary language was the key to metaphysics. For the Modistae, grammatical forms, the \"modi significandi\" of verbs, nouns, and adjectives, comprise the deep ontological structure of language, which objectively reflects reality. Their work predicted the concept of universal grammar, suggesting that universal grammatical rules may be extracted from all living languages. Roger Bacon may have given the movement inspiration with his observation that all languages are built upon a common grammar, a shared foundation of ontologically anchored linguistic structures. He argued grammar is substantially the same in all languages, even though it may undergo accidental variations between languages.\n\nThere are parallels between speculative grammar and phenomenology, a fact that was picked up early on by Martin Heidegger, who wrote his first book, \"Die Kategorien-und Bedeutungslehre des Duns Scotus\", on Thomas of Erfurt's treatise (at that time still mistakenly attributed to Duns Scotus).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10039273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10039273", "title": "Museum of Dacian and Roman Civilisation", "text": "Museum of Dacian and Roman Civilisation\n\nThe Museum of Dacian and Roman Civilisation is a museum in Deva, Romania. A brief history of Deva and its other neighbouring citadels as well as extensive archaeological discoveries from the numerous sights in and around the Orăştie Mountains are exhibited in the museum.\n\nThe museum was founded in 1882 as the County Museum and houses one of the most important archaeological collections in Transylvania, including numismatic, ethnographic and natural science exhibits. The museum is housed in the 17th century Magna Curia Palace, constructed in 1621 under the authority of Prince (Voivode) Gabor Bethlen. Under Bethlen's rule, Deva was the capital of Transylvania, for a brief period. The palace is located at the foot of the citadel hill next to a small park.\n\nIn a separate building next to the palace is the Natural History Museum (Muzeul Stintale Naturii). The Art Gallery branch of the museum (Sectia de Arta) is located in the opposite prefecture, on the other side of the park and on the corner of Str. 1 Decembrie and Str. Avram Iancu.\n\n"}
{"id": "21421304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21421304", "title": "Pat's Uninteresting Tours", "text": "Pat's Uninteresting Tours\n\nPat's Uninteresting Tours was a series of themed route bus tours that offered an alternative to the usual sightseeing tours. Taking passengers on a four-hour comedy excursion to downmarket locations it operated in Sydney, Australia during the mid to late 1980s.\n\nThe premise was to conduct paying passengers on a bus and expose them to ordinary situations in incongruous contexts - actively avoiding normal tourist attractions and visiting uninteresting sites. These included wine tasting at a rubbish tip, \"experiencing fresh air\" at the sewage works and formal dinner at a road-side diner. Passengers were encouraged to dress in tourist garb for the day tours and tacky evening wear for night tours. After TV New Zealand program \"That's Fairly Interesting\" recorded a segment, tours were conducted in Wellington, Christchurch, Palmerston North and later Auckland.\n\nPatrick McGeown created the concept in 1978 whilst serving on board the Royal Australian Navy warship HMAS \"Perth\". After repeated trips to Hawaii, he began to lead alternative sightseeing events for other crewmates. Following the inaugural tour he then conducted tours in Darwin and Canberra before launching the concept as a business in Sydney on 17 March 1985.\n\nEach tour was unique and the four hours of improvisation and creativity took passengers to an assortment of locations. Some Sydney locations were:\n\n\nOther media references:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31786205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31786205", "title": "Pisa Griffin", "text": "Pisa Griffin\n\nThe Pisa Griffin is a large bronze sculpture of a griffin, a mythical beast, which has been in Pisa in Italy since the Middle Ages, though it is of Islamic origin. It is the largest medieval Islamic metal sculpture known, at over three feet tall (42.5 inches, or 1.07 m.), and was probably created in the 11th century in Al-Andalus (Islamic Spain). It has been described as the \"most famous as well as the most beautiful and monumental example\" of a tradition of zoomorphic bronzes in Islamic art. It is now in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo (Cathedral Museum), Pisa.\n\nThe griffin has the head of an eagle; but it has ears like those of a horse as well as the wattles of a rooster, wings, and the body of a lion, or other mammal(s), with toes. Its dimensions are: height 107 cm; length 87 cm; width 43 cm. It is made of cast bronze (i.e. copper alloy) with the wings cast separately and held in place by rivets; it is largely hollow inside. There is an engraved decoration, including an Arabic inscription in Kufic letters round the beast's chest and flanks saying: \"Perfect benediction, complete wellbeing, perfect joy, eternal peace and perfect health, and happiness and good fortune (?) for the owner\". The wings are decorated with stylized feathers, the chest with overlapping semi-circular scales, and the back with a pattern of plain circles enclosed in two rings, on a textured background. At the top of each leg there is a more elaborate, inverted teardrop-shaped zone or cartouche, where arabesques surround an animal, lions on each front leg and birds, presumably eagles, on each rear one. \n\nThere are three openings to the interior of the statue, which contains fittings given various interpretations, described below. There are openings at the mouth, rear – perhaps for a missing tail – and a larger one under the belly. Inside is \"a globular “cup” made of bronze, open towards the belly and soldered on the back with a fine piece of the same metal\".\n\nThe griffin is the largest of a group of surviving Islamic bronze animals, most of which are much smaller and functioned as aquamaniles, incense-burners and the like, and whose origin goes back to pre-Islamic Sassanian vessels. A much smaller group of middle-sized works contains several that were clearly fountainheads, probably originally arranged in circular groups facing outwards, in the manner of the famous stone lions still in place at the Alhambra in Granada. Among the group of non-portable early Islamic bronze animals, two have been sold in recent years, both clearly made as fountainheads: a lion, perhaps from Sicily and rather later in date, was sold for £1,546,650 at Sotheby's in 2002, and a 10th-century hind (female deer) from Cordoba, which realized £3,631,500 in 1997 at Christie's. This latter is said to be a companion of the \"Cordoba Stag\", the best known of the group after the Pisa Griffin, which is now 61.6 cm high, though lacking the antlers it is presumed to have originally had, and dates to ca. 950–1000. It is in the Museo Arqueológico Provincial de Cordoba, and was found in the ruins of the large palace-city Madinat Al-Zahra outside Cordoba. Another, not matching, hind fountainhead from Madinat Al-Zahra is in the National Archaeological Museum of Spain in Madrid (right); the 16th century historian al-Maqqari mentions \"...marble basins with elaborate spouts at the palace of Madinat al-Zahra'. One of these was surrounded by twelve gold animal sculptures which spewed water from their mouths\". Smaller pieces are the \"Kassel Lion\" signed by Abd Allah Mattial from the 10th or 11th century (Kassel Museum), and the \"Monzon lion\" in the Louvre.\n\nIt has been suggested that the griffin too might have been placed in a fountain, with water spouting from its mouth, but a more recent theory, based on the remains of its internal features, is that both it and a smaller lion in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, were in fact designed to emit noises from their mouth, as a kind of mechanical toy of a sort known to have been enjoyed in Islamic courts.\n\nLocating the area where the griffin was made has been the subject of considerable dedate, with Al-Andalus, Egypt, Sicily, North Africa and other places suggested at various points. Debate focuses on a group of bronzes of one sort or another that are often thought to have been made in the same area. Al-Andalus remains the most popular choice, but South Italy or Sicily are possible, though Egypt seems to have largely fallen out of contention.\n\nRobert Hillenbrand suggests that the fantastic nature of the griffin and other statues of animals was influenced by a belief that such mythical beasts were less likely to be regarded as idolatrous than lifelike animal forms. All representations of animals were against strict interpretations of Islam, and three-dimensional ones, especially when large, were especially likely to be accused of skirting idolatry, and are rare in Islamic art. An aquamanile in the Hermitage Museum of a cow and calf attacked by a lion has later had the throats of the animals cut with a sharp groove, apparently to make it clear that they are dead. Oleg Grabar suggests that the engraved decoration may be \"translations into cheaper bronze\" of inlays and enamelling found on gold and silver Byzantine objects. The circular patterns on the griffin's back and several of the other works mentioned above derive from textile designs.\n\nThe griffin is generally agreed to have arrived in Pisa at some point during the late 11th or early 12th century, and may have been a spoil of one of the many successful \"wars\" or raids conducted by the Republic of Pisa against Islamic states at this period, when the small city was at the height of its power as a maritime republic. The successful attack in 1087 on Mahdia in modern Tunisia, capital of the local Zirid dynasty is one candidate. The griffin was placed on a platform on top of a column rising from the gable above the apse at the east end of Pisa Cathedral, probably as part of the original construction, which was begun in 1064. This was a very prominent position, but one that meant that it could not be seen close up, and its Islamic origins were forgotten over the centuries. According to later local legends it was variously said to be Roman, a local medieval creation, a spoil of war from 1115, or miraculously found when the foundations of the cathedral were being excavated. Large-scale European bronze casting at this period specialized in fonts and pairs of doors, of which there is a fine Romanesque pair with reliefs in the same museum.\n\nIn 1828 the griffin was removed and placed in the Cathedral Museum, with a replica later placed in the original position. Once seen closely, the Kufic inscription made its Islamic origins plain, although Murray's Handbook for Italy in 1861 fantasized that: \"Though Arabian, it is as clearly not Mahometan, and it is most probably an idol or a talisman belonging to the Druzes, or some other of the tribes who even still secretly reject the doctrines of the Koran\". Debate about the place and date of its creation continues to the present day.\n\nIn Pisa the griffin joined other trophy pieces of prestigious bronze sculpture displayed at the heart of the civic space, like (later) the Horses of St Mark and the lion on a column in the Piazzetta in Venice. In Pisa it forms a part of probably the most famous ensemble of Romanesque architecture in Italy in the \"Piazza dei Miracoli\", looking at the Leaning Tower of Pisa, with the Bapistry behind it. \n\nIn recent years the griffin has travelled to exhibitions in Berlin in 1989, Granada, New York in 1992, and Brigham Young University in Provo in 2012. \n\nThere is an ongoing interdisciplinary project on the Pisa Griffin and related metalwork and material culture, in collaboration with Oxford University, Pisa University, CNR-ISTI in Pisa, Opera della Primaziale Pisana, and the Istituto Superiore per la Conservazione ed il Restauro. Among the outcomes of the project there will be an accurate digital 3D model of the statue obtained through 3D scanning, videos, a book and an exhibition.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53406729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53406729", "title": "Pleurants", "text": "Pleurants\n\nPleurants or weepers (the English meaning of \"pleurants\") are anonymous sculpted figures representing mourners, used to decorate elaborate tomb monuments, mostly in the late Middle Ages in Western Europe. Typically they are relatively small, and a group were placed around the sides of a raised tomb monument, perhaps interspersed with armorial decoration, or carrying shields with this. They may be in relief or free-standing. In English usage the term \"weepers\" is sometimes extended to cover the small figures of the deceased's children often seen kneeling underneath the tomb effigy in Tudor tomb monuments. \n\nThese figures represent the mourners, who pray for the deceased standing during the funeral procession. Because many of the original tombs have been vandalised or destroyed, relatively few examples remain to be studied. Many figures have been detached from their original context, which is not always known.\n\nIn the 16th and 17th century the practice of placing anonymous pleurant figures disappeared, although the group at Brou for Margaret of Bourbon were not begun until 1526 at the earliest. But these were commissioned over 40 years after her death by her daughter, along with tombs for herself and her husband, and reflected the taste of Margaret's lifetime.\n\nThe type began in England in the 13th century, inspired by French examples. The first examples had relief figures set within quatrefoil frames, as in the tomb now used for Henry Marshal, Bishop of Exeter (d. 1206) in Exeter Cathedral.\n\nThe first recorded use of the English word is in a contract relating to the construction of the very grand tomb of Richard Beauchamp, 13th Earl of Warwick, who died in 1437 in France, though the contract is some time later, and the weepers were made in 1452–53. This has the effigy and weepers in gilt-bronze, and still stands in the Collegiate Church of St Mary, Warwick, with the \"xiv images embossed of lords and ladyes in divers verstures, called weepers\", standing in niches around the sides, that were specified.\n\nOn the Continent they are especially a feature of the tombs of Franco-Burgundian royalty, imitated by some grand nobles. The tomb at Royaumont Abbey of Louis of France (1244–1260), son of Louis IX of France, appears to have popularized the type. Here a side of the chest below the effigy shows eight walking figures in relief in an arcade, led by two mitred clerics. One end of the chest had a relief of the dead prince, covered by a cloth that leaves his face exposed being carried by four bearers. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "16864766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16864766", "title": "Polar wander", "text": "Polar wander\n\nPolar wander is the motion of a pole in relation to a fixed reference frame. It can be used, for example, to measure the degree to which Earth's magnetic poles have been observed to move relative to the Earth's rotation axis. It is also possible to use continents as a static entity and observe the relative motion of the magnetic pole on the different continents; by doing so, the relative motion of those two continents to each other can be observed over geologic time.\n\nThe magnetic poles are relatively stationary in position over time and because of this, researchers often use magnetic minerals, like magnetite, in order to find at what latitude the continent was positioned relative to the magnetic poles of that time. Since the continents have been moving relative to the pole; it is as if they were immobile and the magnetic pole was moving instead. If enough data is collected, it is then possible to reconstruct the motion of the continents relative to the magnetic poles. The apparent polar wander is the path that the magnetic pole appears to take according to the data on a continent. When multiple continents are moving relative to each other, the path their magnetic pole will follow will be different from the others. Conversely, when two continents are moving parallel to each other their path will be the same.\n\nTrue polar wander represents the shift in the geographical poles relative to Earth’s surface, after accounting for the motion of the tectonic plates. This motion is caused by the rearrangement of the mantle and the crust in order to align the maximum inertia with the current rotation axis (fig.1). This is similar to a spinning top; when its rotation is disturbed, it slowly recovers and it will realign its rotation axis to its position of maximum inertia. The difference is that unlike Earth, the spinning top’s mass distribution is constant through its volume over time. Evidence for true polar wander has been observed from the study of large apparent polar wander datasets which, when corrected for the motion of the magnetic pole, display this polar wander. Modern polar wander can be evaluated from precise measurement using stars or satellite measurements, however filtering to remove the wobble of the Earth is required. The formation of supercontinents could initiate a faster polar wander. That is, because the supercontinent creates an extra mass concentration where they are located, the planet tries to re-orient the supercontinent towards the equator.\n\nTrue polar wander may have been observed in other planetary bodies. Data suggests that Mars’s polar wander resembles Earth’s true polar wander; that is, when Mars had an active lithosphere its structure allowed slow polar drift to stabilize the moment of inertia.\n\nUnlike the Earth and Mars, Venus’s structure does not seem to allow the same slow polar wander; when observed the maximum moment of inertia of Venus is largely offset from the geographic pole. Therefore, the deviation of the maximum moment of inertia will remain for longer periods of time. One proposed solution to account for this imbalance is that if the difference between the maximum moment of inertia and rotation axis exceeds a certain limit, the planet will undergo a larger degree of oscillation to realign its maximum of inertia with its rotation axis. If this is indeed the case, then the timescale at which this correction happens must be fairly short.\n\nEuropa, a moon of Jupiter, has been modelled to have a crust that is decoupled from its mantle; that is, the outer icy crust may be floating on a covered ocean. If this is true, then models predict that the shell could display the polar wander trace on its surface as its crust realigns. These models have been defended by evidence from features on the side facing away from Jupiter that appear to have shifted up to 80° away from their initial positions of formation.\n\n"}
{"id": "48361250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48361250", "title": "Rich Donovan", "text": "Rich Donovan\n\nRich Donovan is a global expert in business development issues surrounding disability and accessibility. He is best known for creating financial instruments that track the intersection of corporate profitability with corporate commitment to disability hiring and best practices. His Return On Disability Index is reported on Bloomberg and has been used as the basis of an Exchange Traded Note (ETN) by Barclay’s Bank on the NYSE Arca Stock Exchange.\n\nRich Donovan is a founder of several research and advisory companies that have foregrounded the business case for companies and governments to act on the disability market. In 2008, he founded what is now called The Return on Disability Group to build metric and models that allow for analysis of corporate activity which help assess how well businesses engage customers and employees with disabilities. The organization’s \"Return on Disability Reports\" and other models helps companies understand their performance across disability factors that are linked directly to profitability. As well they produce the Return on Disability Indices for the U.S. and Canada markets. These financial tools \"recognize public companies that are outperforming in the disability market.\" The RoD US 100 and the RoD Canada 50, are published daily by Bloomberg LP. The indices track the shares of the 100 firms that deal best with disabled people. The Economist notes that in the five years to 2012 the US index had outperformed the broader stock market.\n\nIn 2006, Rich Donovan founded Lime Connect. Lime Connect is an organization whose goal is to find employment for people with disabilities. The idea with Lime Connect is: “to connect with the brightest people with disabilities from all disciplines. Results have been stellar, with the Lime Connect Fellowship Program placing 20 young stars in 2011 alone, six of whom were hired by Google.” Other companies Lime has partnered with include PepsiCo, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, IBM, and TD Bank.\n\nAs one of the early progenitors of the business case for accessibility, Donovan has focused on the following:\n\n\nDonovan received his BBA in Finance from the Schulich School of Business at York University (1993 - 1997) and his MBA from Columbia Business School (2000 – 2002). He worked successfully as a trader for Merrill Lynch. Donovan is an avid sailor and father of a son, Maverick, along with his wife, Jenn. He has cerebral palsy.\n\n\n\nThe primary annual report published by The Return on Disability Group is the \"Global Economics of Disability.\" The report \"is featured on the European Union web site and is frequently quoted by businesses, governments and NGOs when defining the size, scope and value of the disability market.\"\n"}
{"id": "1383693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1383693", "title": "Río Plátano Biosphere Reserve", "text": "Río Plátano Biosphere Reserve\n\nThe Río Plátano Biosphere Reserve is 5,250 km² of preserved land in the La Mosquitia region on the Caribbean coast of Honduras. Most of the land runs along the Río Plátano. The reserve has a number of endangered species and some of Honduras largest sections of forest. It has been a World Heritage site and biosphere reserve since 1982. In 2011, UNESCO placed the reserve on the List of World Heritage in Danger.\n\nThe reserve encompasses both mountainous and lowland tropical rainforest, full of diverse wildlife and plant life, and has more than 2000 inhabitants. The reserve is part of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor that stretches from Mexico southwards through Central America.\n\nAlthough the reserve covers a large portion of Honduras, very little is recorded about the biological diversity within it. While previous management plans have proven successful, a continued investigation into ongoing management plans and future conservation issues will be necessary to keep this valuable reserve safe. Currently there are threats to the conservation of the reserve which include illegal hunting, logging and clearing of land to graze cattle. Recent rafting expeditions from the Rio Plátano headwaters through all three zones of the reserve (cultural, buffer and core) have documented cattle grazing in the core zone, commercial fishing and hunting camps along the river and clear cutting of forest near Las Marias.\n\nIn 1960, the land was set aside as the \"Cuidad Blanca Archaeological Reserve,\" named after the rumored ancient settlement known as \"la Ciudad Blanca.\" The reserve was renamed \"Río Plátano Biosphere Reserve\" in 1980 and added to the World Heritage list in 1982.\n\nA management and development was designed in 1980 and implemented in 1987 by the Department of Natural Renewable Resources. In 1997, an additional 3250 km² was designated as a buffer zone for the reserve. In 1997, the German Development Bank began a plan that would significantly expand the reserve to the Patuca River and the Bosawas Biosphere Reserve in Nicaragua. Currently, the German plan has been delayed.\n\nThe reserve still has over 200 archeological sites, including the point where Christopher Columbus first arrived in mainland America. The reserve also contains ruined settlements, including stone from buildings and roads, rock carvings, and other remains.\n\nFew of these sites are protected, in fact some have been looted and many are a significant factor for tourism. Although the archeological value of the region initially played a large part in the formation of the reservation, the reservation currently focuses mostly on the protection of the forests.\n\nAccording to tradition, \"La Ciudad Blanca\" is located in the region. Over the years, many professional and amateur archeologists have claimed to find it, but none have produced credible evidence and most professionals remain skeptical that it ever existed.\n\nThe reserve is home for more than 2,000 indigenous people and a growing number of migrant inhabitants. The population includes four very different and unique cultural groups: Miskito, Pech, Garifunas, and the ladino. The smaller groups, the Pech, Garifunas, and Miskito inhabitants live mostly in the north, alongside the river. These people have a variety of rights to the land and mostly use the land for agriculture. The smaller-scale agriculture of the Pech is easily made sustainable. Many of the largest group, the ladino, entered the reserve from the south. Conflict over land rights is a prominent source of conflict between ethnic groups. Current conflict over land rights involves non native peoples invading and threatening indigenous land owners—forcing them from their historical lands.\n\nIn 1996 the reserve received the World Heritage in Danger designation. A reserve management plan, implemented in 2000, included macrozoning, subzoning, and specific plans for conservation issues. The macrozoning plan established buffer zones, cultural zones, and nucleus zones. The overall threat, especially in the nucleus zones, had decreased in 2006 recognizing a significant improvement in conservation efforts, leading to the removal of the World Heritage in Danger designation in 2007. From recent investigations in 2010 and 2011, however, it appears that what ever gains were initially recognized, that is not the case currently. UNESCO recently (2011) did a mission to the Rio Plátano and found illegal activity within the core zone. Drug smuggling, clearing of land for cattle grazing, and illegal fishing and hunting along the river are currently happening. In 2011, UNESCO placed the reserve on the List of World Heritage in Danger.\n\nThe area is protected by policy from the Department of Protected Areas & Wildlife, State Forestry Administration in Honduras, and receives some funding from the World Wildlife Fund and other private organizations. A number of governmental and non-governmental organizations and committees have developed and implemented conservation plans in the region. The main goal of the reserve is to protect the land from deforestation and development.\n\nThe reserve’s conservation plan aims to integrate local inhabitants into their environment via sustainable agricultural practices (see La Ruta Moskitia Ecotourism Alliance). Indigenous populations play a large part into the success of the conservation plan, both inside the reservation and outside the reservation in the buffer zones. Assigning titles and recognizing de facto property rights played an important part of the beginning of the conservation plan in the reserve. There is currently a need to update any conservation plan for the reserve.\n\nThe conservation plan requests continued commitment to clarifying land ownership in and around the reserve. More research needs to be done to understand the value of the reserve and the potential threats it faces. There are currently no park guards or any official entity actively patrolling or guarding the reserve.\n\nThe annual precipitation is between , and the local inhabitants have noticed a trend towards dryer seasons. The climate in the region is key to preserving the valuable wet forests and important for the agriculture upon which the indigenous people depend.\n\nThe reserve also receives an average of four severe tropical storms every ten years. The tropical storms echo through the rest of the reserve through the numerous waterways. Development plans and agriculture depend upon the river’s natural levees to drain water from low-lying areas. The after-effects of the Hurricane Mitch in 1998 disrupted the development of the Patuca II hydroelectric facility.\n\nThe land stretches from La Moskitia coast through lagoons and along the Río Plátano up into the mountains. The buffer area also includes the Paulaya and Sico valley, and will eventually extend to the Patuca River. The reserve is mostly mountainous, including Pico Dama, a giant granite formation, and Punta Piedra, the highest peak at .\n\nThe reserve includes nearly the entire watershed of the Río Plátano, and many other smaller waterways. Much of the region is covered with mountainous terrain. The rivers wind through both the lower and mountainous regions. The forms many oxbows as it crosses the long stretch of flat lowland that separates the foothills from the lagoons. The river has created oxbow lakes, marshes, and natural levees.\n\nThe geography of the region makes agriculture and conservation especially complicated. The low-land areas covered with water throughout the winter, and the rivers and the various tributaries house a wide variety of flora. The coastal region to the north is more commonly documented, so the rest of the region needs more thorough exploration.\n\nThe reserve contains part of the largest surviving area of undisturbed tropical rainforest in Honduras and one of the few remaining in Central America, with numerous endangered species. Although there is a growing amount of research available on the biodiversity within the reserve, the current management plans emphasize the need for more research on the flora and fauna of the region.\n\nThe major ecosystems include mangrove and freshwater swamps and marshes, sedge prairie, pine savanna, and gallery forest. There is a diverse amount of flora, estimated at over 2,000 species of vascular plants, although little has been written about it because many species are new or undiscovered.\n\nThere are two major mangrove ecosystems along the coast: the Brus Lagoon and the Iban Lagoon. The Brus area is 120 km² and brackish, and the Ibans area is 63 km² and freshwater. The mangroves are valuable and fragile, so they are a significant part of the value of the reserve.\n\nFurther in, the land becomes prairie and savannah with pine and palm, depending upon the availability of water. Along the watershed of the rivers, the vegetation is thick wet forest, which is again, poorly studied.\nThe documented fauna of the region includes 39 species of mammals, 377 species of birds and 126 species of reptiles and amphibians. The region is rich with birds, including the king vulture, harpy eagle, great curassow, crested guan, scarlet macaw, green macaw and military macaw.\nThe representative species include white-headed capuchin, mantled howler and spider monkeys, brown-throated sloth, paca, kinkajou, coatimundi tayra, Central American otter, puma, collared peccary, white-lipped peccary and red brocket.\n\nThe rare or endangered species: giant anteater, jaguar, ocelot, margay, Caribbean West Indian manatee, and Central American tapir.\nThe amount of environmental education that exists in Honduras is minimal, so it is difficult to protect these endangered species. The widespread poverty and lack of accurate research on the ecosystems makes protection increasingly difficult. While the conservation programs are reaching their goals, it is difficult to tell whether or not the management plans are successfully protecting these species directly. Protecting the ecosystems, like the rainforest, upon which the endangered species depend serves as an important indirect benefit.\n\nThe high density of wildlife along La Mosquitia coast makes it a popular destination for ecotourists. Although private organizations are launching ecotourism enterprises throughout the region, the government does not have a comprehensive plan to control or benefit from ecotourists. Ecotourism can offer relief for poverty stricken local populations, increased awareness of biological value, and can generate income that can be used to fund projects for the reserve. Currently there are guided 10- to 12-day rafting trips being offered down the entire length of the Rio Plátano.\n\nAlthough a properly implemented tourist industry could benefit the reserve, the currently unregulated industry has created a large amount of traffic and damaged archeological sites. The tourism industry has an impact across the entire reserve, but the unprotected archeological sites are especially hurt. Without developing infrastructure, it is difficult to have a profitable and sustainable ecotourism industry, especially in a reserve with difficult conservation issues.\n\nDespite its removal from the World Heritage in Danger designation, the reserve still faces a few conservation threats. Logging and development continue to be problems, and the situation is exacerbated by an increasing population from poorer parts of Honduras or refugees from Nicaragua.\n\nThe government regulates the logging industry in Honduras through the Honduran Cooperation for Forestry Development. Despite oversight of these and other organizations and a moratorium on logging inside the reserve, mahogany continues to be cut and removed. The Honduran government has failed to pass laws strict enough to have a substantial impact on preventing deforestation. The entire reserve could quickly disappear, even through unregulated deforestation.\n\nLocal populations admit that a large amount mahogany is leaving the reserve, but many poorer sections of the economy see the high price of mahogany as enough incentive to clear away valuable ecosystems that provide irreplaceable services to the water and soil. The loggers behind much of the reserve’s deforestation is still mostly unknown.\nDevelopment within and around the reserve poses a problem for the conservation plans. The construction of the Patuca II hydroelectric plant in the Patuca river highlights the elements of the debate. A hydroelectric plant does more than affect the waterway where it is built. It also requires infrastructure that disturbs the environment around it. A lot of the reserve does not have developed roadways or power. A hydroelectric facility would require development throughout the reserve.\n\nAgriculture throughout the reserve poses a more direct threat. As the populations expand within the reserve, so do their agricultural operations. Much of the wetland area is unsuitable for agriculture, needing levees and continued development to be productive. Much of the non-legal de facto ownership has spurred conflict, sometimes violent, among different cultural groups over rights to agriculturally productive areas.\n\nPoorer farmers resort to destructive techniques, like slash-and-burn, that are particularly damaging to the savannah and prairie land. Although the current management plan aims to educate farmers about these destructive practices, they continue. Future management goals aim to promote sustainable technique among a larger number of the traditional farmers.\n\nPoverty in Honduras and neighboring Nicaragua, and an increasing number of hurricanes have driven many refugees into the reserve, making conservation efforts increasingly complicated. These refugees often enter through the south of the reserve, and sometimes create more conflict integrating with the indigenous populations. While traditional farming practices can be somewhat destructive, the stress created by larger populations is much more damaging to the reserve.\n\nCurrently, the Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development with the help of the Honduran Public Safety Force polices the reserve, hoping to decrease the number of people who invade. Regardless of their efforts, refugees continue to enter. The reservation considered a plan to relocate refugees outside the reserve, creating both an increased buffer and reducing the stress within the reserve. This plan was met with political opposition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48781755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48781755", "title": "Salaš", "text": "Salaš\n\nSalaš (in Serbo-Croatian, Czech and Slovak, from Hungarian \"szállás\" meaning \"house, accommodation\") is a traditional type of farm in the Pannonian Plain region, particularly in Bačka and Slavonija. A \"salaš\" is typically remote from a town or village. It consists of a family house, agricultural objects such as barn, stable and granary, surrounded by arable land and pastures. They were owned and inhabited by a single family, who lived there for generations.\n\nThe once very numerous \"mudhuts\" on the plains of central Europe were built from locally found materials: the walls were raised from beaten mud, or mud-and-hay bricks dried in the sun. The roof was usually from dried reed, assembled together in traditional craftsmanship. Today, salaš becomes part of folklore to be shown to tourists, together with traditional foods and beverages, customs, farm life, tamburica music, etc.\n\nIn Slovak culture, \"salaše\" were remote encampments for sheep-guards, and eventually came to denote small countryside restaurants housed in such houses, providing sheep products and traditional home meals such as bryndzové halušky. \n\n"}
{"id": "6530251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6530251", "title": "Shock Illustrated", "text": "Shock Illustrated\n\nShock Illustrated was an American black and white magazine published by EC Comics from late 1955 to early 1956. Part of EC's Picto-Fiction line, each magazine featured three to five stories. The artists drew one to four panels per page with the text overlaid onto the artwork. The first issue appeared with a cover date of September–October 1955 and featured three psychology-themed stories, similar in theme to the comic \"Psychoanalysis\" published by EC in 1955. Starting with the second issue this type of story was generally reduced to one per issue, with the remaining stories being similar in theme to those that appeared in EC's comic \"Shock SuspenStories\".\n\n\"Shock Illustrated\" ran for a total of three issues. The Picto-Fiction magazines lost money from the start, and when EC's distributor went bankrupt, the company had no choice but to cancel the prints. The third issue of this magazine is known as the rarest EC publication of all time. Although all 250,000 copies had been printed, publisher Bill Gaines lacked the funds to bind them, and all but 100 copies were destroyed.\n\nThe editor of \"Shock Illustrated\" was Al Feldstein. In addition to those stories credited to him, Feldstein also wrote under the pseudonym Alfred E. Neuman. Feldstein included multiple retellings of previous stories, a move suggested by Gaines. This included \"A Question of Time\" and \"Dead Right\" in the second issue and \"Curiosity Killed\" in the third issue. Contributing writers included Jack Oleck (who had worked as a writer on EC's earlier publications), Robert Bernstein, John Larner, and Daniel Keyes (using the pseudonyms Kris Daniels and A.D. Locke).\n\nArtists featured in \"Shock Illustrated\" included Jack Kamen, Rudy Nappi, Reed Crandall, George Evans, Al Williamson, Angelo Torres and Graham Ingels.\n\n\"Shock Illustrated\" was reprinted along with the other Picto-Fiction magazines in hardbound volumes by Russ Cochran (and Gemstone Publishing) for the first time in 2006 as the final part of his \"Complete EC Library\". With these reprints, published for the first time, was the fourth issue of the title which had been produced but never printed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1557461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1557461", "title": "Stane Street (Chichester)", "text": "Stane Street (Chichester)\n\nStane Street is the modern name given to an important Roman road in England that linked London to the Roman town of Noviomagus Reginorum, or \"Regnentium\", later renamed Chichester by the Saxons. The exact date of construction is uncertain; however on the basis of archaeological artefacts discovered along the road, it was in use by 70 AD and may have been constructed in the first decade of the Roman occupation of Britain (as early as 43-53 AD).\n\nStane Street shows clearly the engineering principles that the Romans used when building roads. A straight line alignment from London Bridge to Chichester would have required steep crossings of the North Downs, Greensand Ridge and South Downs and so the road was designed to exploit a natural gap in the North Downs cut by the River Mole and to pass to the east of the high ground of Leith Hill before following flatter land in the River Arun valley to Pulborough. The direct survey line was followed only for the northernmost from London to Ewell. At no point does the road lie more than six miles from the direct line from London Bridge to Chichester.\n\nToday the Roman road is easily traceable on modern maps. Much of the route is followed by the A3, A24, A29 and A285, although most of the course through the modern county of Surrey has either been completely abandoned or is followed only by bridlepaths. Earthworks associated with the road are visible in many places where the course is not overlain by modern roads and the well-preserved section from Mickleham Downs to Thirty Acres Barn, Ashtead is listed as a scheduled monument.\n\nStane is simply an old spelling of \"stone\" () which was commonly used to differentiate paved Roman roads from muddy native trackways. The name of the road is first recorded as \"Stanstret\" in both the 1270 Feet of Fines and the 1279 Assizes Rolls of Ockley. It is also referred to by the modern spelling as Stone Street as far back as medieval sources. There is no surviving record of the road's original Roman name.\n\nA number of first-century pottery fragments and coins have been found along the road, including Samian ware of Claudian date at Pulborough. The earliest coins found are of Claudius (41–54 AD), with others of Nero, Vespasian, Titus, Domitian and Nerva (96-98 AD). This is consistent with the road being in use by 60 to 70 AD, possibly earlier. \n\nThe direct line from London Bridge to Chichester passes over the North Downs at Ranmore (200 m above Ordnance Datum), the Greensand Ridge at Holmbury St Mary (260 m OD) and over the South Downs near Goodwood Racecourse (167 m OD). The steep gradients which would have been required if the road had followed a direct line would not have been practical for wheeled traffic and so the Roman engineers designed the road to cross the North Downs by natural breach cut by the River Mole and to pass to the east of the high ground of Leith Hill. The geology of the region was also considered and the road leaves the direct line at Ewell to move onto the well-drained chalk of the North Downs, in preference to remaining on the London Clay. The road is able to make a more gentle ascent of the South Downs escarpment at Bignor than was possible at Goodwood and the chosen route avoids the need for the road to cross the steep sided River Lavant valley at East Dean.\nIn order to accommodate and exploit the complex topology of the region, the road used four main straight sections (sometimes referred to as \"limbs\") connected by shorter linking sections. Each limb could be surveyed separately using local vantage points. The major limbs were:\nThe limbs were not joined directly to each other, but are linked instead by shorter segments.\nThe Roman surveying technique is clearly demonstrated by the longest of the four limbs from South Holmwood to North Heath (24.5 km or 15 miles). The line that the road follows runs between two prominent hill tops, Borough Hill on the South Downs and Brockham Warren on the North Downs. There are some short local variations from the straight line of the limb, for example the Roman road loops to the west for around 200 m at Okewood Hill to cross a small stream at a convenient fording point. South of North Heath the road turns by an angle of 7 degrees to head towards the crossing of the River Arun at Pulborough. North of South Holmwood, the road turns by a further 7 degrees to the north to approach Dorking.\n\nThe average width of the paved road is , or 25 Roman \"pedes\". This is wider than the average or 22 \"pedes\" for Roman roads in Britain. The overall width between the outer ditches, which can still be seen on aerial photographs taken over the South Downs, is or 86 \"pedes\". The actual width of metalling varies from place to place, and the outer ditches were found to be apart at Westhampnet. Sections of intact road that have been excavated in several places show a variety of local materials, with the agger often being constructed of alternating layers of sand and gravel paved with large flint nodules, or sandstone, surfaced with smaller flint or sand and gravel. The metalling was generally about thick at the centre with a pronounced camber. Near to the Alfoldean station the metalling was constructed from iron slag in a solid 30 cm thick mass.\n\nThere are two known posting stations or \"mansiones\" along Stane Street, where official messengers could change horses and travellers could rest. These are at Alfoldean and Hardham. \"Mansiones\" were normally rectangular fortified sites of about 1 hectare (2.5 acres). The station at Alfoldean has been excavated. The Alfoldean site is just south of the River Arun and partly covered by the A29 road. It was excavated by the Channel 4 archaeological television programme \"Time Team\", revealing the remains of a two-storey \"mansio\" built around a courtyard and also many other buildings. The site was enclosed by massive ramparts and ditches four metres wide and as deep which were dated by pottery finds to around 90 AD. The ditches were filled in by the mid-third century. The team's view was that the site had been an administrative and taxation centre for the Wealden iron industry. The western side of the Hardham station was destroyed by construction of the Pulborough to Midhurst railway, but most of it, including the north and south gateways, remains.\n\nTwo further stations at Merton Priory and Dorking have been postulated as being at suitable intervals, though the sites would now be hidden under modern development. Alternative sites for the posting stations have also been suggested at Ewell and Burford Bridge (where the road crossed the River Mole).\n\nThe line of the road runs south west from London Bridge, between Borough High Street and Elephant and Castle forming the course of the present-day Newington Causeway, then through Clapham and Tooting down to Colliers Wood and Merton. Clapham Road and Kennington Park Road lie on top of Stane Street. It then crosses the River Wandle at the site of what later became Merton Priory, and is then closely followed by the A24 from Morden to Ewell. This is the only section of the road that is on the true line from London Bridge to the east gate of Chichester. The road passes through Sutton Common and forms the northern boundary of Sutton, formed from Old English 'sūth' and 'tūn', meaning \"the south enclosure\", which may have derived its name from its southerly position in relation to the road; the enclosure could have been Oldfields Farm, located at what is now Rosehill.\n\nAt Ewell it bears to the left slightly, avoiding wet difficult alluvial soils by moving onto the chalk, to cross the North Downs near Langley Vale. The section from Thirty Acres Barn, Ashtead to Mickleham Downs is well preserved and is listed as a scheduled monument. Stane Street crossed the River Mole via a ford close to the site of the modern Burford Bridge and excavations carried out in 1937 at the site revealed a \"flint-surfaced approach to [a] ford at low level having all the signs of Roman workmanship\". The road passed through Dorking which was almost certainly a Roman station, although the exact course through the town is uncertain. This route takes the road east of Leith Hill, one of the highest hills in southern England at 294 metres (965 feet).\n\nSouth of Dorking, near South Holmwood, Stane Street takes a line sighted from London Bridge to Pulborough with most of this section still in use as the modern A29 which follows the line very closely through Billingshurst as far as Pulborough. This line to the east of the middle reaches of the River Arun is mostly free of steep gradients, although the modern road does avoid the hill at Rowhook. Just to the south of the steep descent from Rowhook through Roman Woods, where the road bridged the River Arun, some of the timber piles on which the bridge was built are still present in the river bed. Scattered Roman tiles and squared stone in the river bed show that stone bridge piers were built above the piling. The Alfoldean station is some south of the bridge site.\n\nAt Hardham, south west of Pulborough, there was a junction with the Greensand Way Roman road to Lewes and a posting station near the junction. From here the alignment makes a beeline for Chichester, and passes the notable Roman villa at Bignor, before making a slight detour from the line where it climbs the escarpment of the South Downs, climbing a spur of chalk at Bignortail Wood and continuing as a man made terrace across the steep hillside. This terrace is well preserved on the downhill side of the top of the modern track which leads to the hilltop car park at Bignor Hill.\n\nUp on the open heath of the downs the line of the road can be followed very well on foot and is free of modern roads and paths. Walking south from Bignor Hill one soon comes to open sheep-grazed pasture at Gumber farm where the scale of the agger of the road can be clearly seen. The spire of Chichester cathedral can be seen above the distant trees, slightly to the right of the road line as the road heads for Chichester's east gate. Further on at Eartham Woods where the Monarch's Way long-distance path follows the route, the flint surface of the well-preserved road is exposed, the trees are mostly cut back to the boundary ditches, and the road seems little different from the time when the Legions left Britain. Although the Saxons made Chichester the capital of the South Saxon kingdom only the southern of the southern section of the road into the western Weald have remained in use, as the A285.\n\nThe London to Brighton Way road diverged from Stane Street at Kennington Park, passing through Croydon, Godstone, Haywards Heath and Burgess Hill to cross the South Downs at Clayton.\n\nFrom Rowhook a road went northwest to Farley Heath at the foot of the North Downs where it passes through a Roman temple site.\n\nThe Sussex Greensand Way branches from Stane Street at Hardham waystation, following a well-drained sandstone ridge east to Lewes.\n\nTo the north of Pulborough another road branched off in a southeasterly direction, crossing the Greensand Way at Wiggonholt. It is unclear whether it continued beyond this towards Storrington.\n\nAt Westhampnett, near the Rolls-Royce works, the Roman coastal road, which became the older A27 road, branches from Stane Street at the mini-roundabout. The Roman road continues via Broadwater, Sompting, Lancing (along a road still named The Street) and part of the Old Shoreham Road (the A270) through to \"Novus Portus\" (around modern Portslade).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23029040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23029040", "title": "The Bear Missed the Train", "text": "The Bear Missed the Train\n\nThe Bear Missed the Train is a parody on the popular song Bei Mir Bistu Shein and was written by the Smith Street Society Jazz Band. According to Joe Hanchrow, \"Sometime around 1964, one of the musicians made an off-handed remark about Bei Mir Bist Du Schoen, calling it The Bear Missed The Train. Within minutes, the tune was written and performed.\" The song was used on radio shows. Al \"Jazzbo\" Collins used it as the theme on his late night jazz show in San Francisco.\nIt also became a favorite on Jean Shepherd's radio narratives.\n\nThe parody's lyrics are as follows:\n\n\"The bear missed the train, the bear missed the train,\nThe bear missed the train and now he's walking.\nThe bear missed the train, the bear missed the train,\nThe bear missed the train and now he's walking.\nAnd now he's walking far, and now he's walking near,\nAnd now he's riding in a car, and now he's drinking a can of beer!\nThe bear missed the train, the bear missed the train,\nThe bear missed the train and now he's walking.\"\n"}
{"id": "25073444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25073444", "title": "The Digby Conversion of Saint Paul", "text": "The Digby Conversion of Saint Paul\n\nThe Digby Conversion of Saint Paul (or The Conuersyon of Seynt Paule) is a Middle English miracle play of the late fifteenth century. Written in rhyme royal, it is about the conversion of Paul the Apostle.\nIt is part of a collection of mystery plays that was bequeathed to the Bodleian Library by Sir Kenelm Digby in 1634.\n\nThe action is in three well-defined parts, often, following medieval practice, referred to as \"stations\". Each of these stations is introduced and concluded by \"Poeta\" (Latin for poet).\n\nThe first station represents Jerusalem. After the prologue there follows a dance, the direction for which has been added in by a later hand, seemingly in an attempt to make the piece more exciting. The play proper begins with Saul, dressed in rich apparel, boasting of his power and of the fear which he inspires, doing so \"a little in the Herod style\". The priests Caypha and Anna give him letters to take to Damascus, where he is to suppress heresy (i.e. the worship of Jesus). Saul then gathers together his knights and servants, who agree to follow him. There follows a comic scene, not present in other versions of the Conversion, between one of Saul's servants and an hostler, who ready a horse which Saul then rides off on. Poeta re-enters to \"mak a conclusyon\" of this first station, and again the stage direction \"daunce\" has been written in a later hand.\n\nIn the next station, on the road to Damascus, God, amidst thunder and lightning, visits Saul and rebukes him for persecuting His followers and tells him to enter Damascus. When the visitation is over Saul finds that he is blind and lame. God also visits Ananias, an inhabitant of Damscus, and tells him to go and cure Saul, assuring him that from now on Saul will advance, rather than persecute, Christianity. As Ananias visits Saul the Holy Spirit appears above them, and Saul is healed and baptised.\n\nIn the third station Saul's knights have returned to Jerusalem, where they tell an angry Caypha and Anna of Paul's conversion to and preaching of Christianity. At this point three leaves have been inserted in a different hand. They make up a comic scene between the demon Belial (whose first line is \"the usual Satanic exclamation of the mystery writers 'Ho ho'\") and his messenger, named Mercury. Again, Joseph Quincy Adams believes this has been included to make the play more exciting. The choice of Belial as the chief demon seems to have been influenced by Saul's swearing \"By the god Bellyall\" in his first scene. The interpolated text also contains material that could be seen as anti-Semitic and which is not mirrored in the main text – Belial claims that he is worshipped \"In the temples and synogoges\" and that Caypha and Anna are his \"prelates\" and are planning to persecute Saul on his suggestion. Heather Hill-Vásquez, however, interprets Caypha and Anna (in the 16th-century version) as standing for Catholic bishops and their link to Belial as a Protestant Reformation attack on the old religion in a play that is an appropriation of one of its forms of dissemination, the (processional) Saint play.\n\nThe play proper resumes with Saul (the play does not include his renaming as Paul), now dressed as a disciple of Jesus, delivering to the audience a rather lengthy sermon on the Seven Deadly Sins. Saul is taken to Caypha and Anna, who order the gates of the city to be locked that they might kill him shortly. However, an angel appears and tells Saul that he will not die yet, and that a place for him in heaven is assured. Saul's escape from the city in a basket is described, not staged. The play ends with Poeta inviting the audience to sing the hymn \"Exultet caelum laudibus\". While Scherb praises the swift ending and finds its reliance on words rather than images appropriate to the play's thematic focus on faith and the movement from iconography to rhetoric, Coldewey simply finds it abrupt.\n\nThe text of \"The Conversion of Saint Paul\" is one of five plays (one a fragment) bound together in MS Digby 133, which is preserved in the Bodleian Library, having been bequeathed to it by Sir Kenelm Digby in 1634. Though critics sometimes write of a \"Digby playwright\" (particularly when examining the \"Conversion\" alongside the \"Mary Magdalene\", the other surviving English Saint play derived from the New Testament), the pieces are in fact independent; though the plays' first modern editor, Thomas Sharp, sees in the \"Conversion\" \"a considerable resemblance in general structure and composition to [\"The Digby Massacre of the Innocents\"]\" The plays date from the late fifteenth century and have a transcription date of 1512 on the first page. As well as the \"Conversion\" and \"The Digby play of Mary Magdalene\" there are plays on the Massacre of the Innocents and the resurrection of Jesus, and an incomplete version of the morality play \"Wisdom\" entitled \"Wisdom, Who is Christ\".\n\nAdams believed the play to have been written by an author from the East Midlands, to be performed at stations in a small village on 25 January, that being the Festival of the Conversion of St. Paul. And while A. M. Kinghorn has it that the play was performed in a fixed locality and was the responsibility, not of the town's guilds, but of the church; Glynne Wickham, citing the text's many apologies for its \"simpleness\", argued that the play, in its final form at any rate, belonged \"to a Guild of artisans who were willing to travel and to adapt their script and presentation to the environment offered by their sponsors and hosts in exchange for hospitality and a small fee\" and thus, while the Digby plays may have originated, like the so-called Macro plays – \"The Castle of Perseverance\", \"Mankind\", and \"Wisdom\" –, in or near Bury St Edmunds in East Anglia, they were able to migrate to Chelmsford in the 16th century.\n\nFurnivall could see little in the play that pointed to a specific dialect, other than a few instances that inclined him more to a Midlands dialect than anything else. A later editor, Coldewey, described the dialect as East Anglian, though note that the East Midlands border on East Anglia.\n\nSarah Salih has speculated that \"The Book of Margery Kempe\", written in East Anglia, could have provided inspiration for the Digby plays of conversion, that is the \"Conversion of Paul\" and the \"Mary Magdalene\".\n\nThe interpolations to the original text (the marginal \"daunce\" stage directions and the three leaves containing the scene between the devils) seem to come from an early sixteenth-century revival of the piece, and were possibly the work of a man named Myles Blomfylde (whose exact identity is unclear), who may have played the role of Poeta.\n\nThe play was not much admired by its 19th- and early 20th-century editors: Furnivall wrote that it (and the Digby mysteries as a whole) pointed to \"the decay of the old religious Drama in England\" and Manly found it \"uninteresting\" and of only historical value. Adams has sympathy with the later author's attempt to introduce more excitement to the piece and goes so far as to omit almost entirely Saul's long sermon on the Seven Deadly Scenes on the grounds of its having \"no dramatic value\". For Chester N. Scoville, however, it is just this sermon, rather than Saul's actual conversion, that is at the heart of the play. In this Scoville is typical of late 20th- and 21st-century critics, who have found richness in the play and, in its unclear staging, strategies for interpretation.\n\nThe play's earliest editors all agreed the original production would have been of the processional sort, with a wagon travelling between three different stations to perform the three scenes of the play, and the audience following, rather as they would performing the Stations of the Cross. The need to accommodate a horse must have meant that the wagon would be fairly large, and with an upper story in order for the Holy Spirit to appear above and from which thunderbolts could be thrown. Lines in Saul's sermon – \"thys semely [assembly] that here syttyth or stonde\" – led scholars to conjecture that a scaffold may have been erected for this and perhaps other stations.\n\nIt was not until the 1970s that Glynne Wickham, first in an essay and then in his edition of the play, challenged this conception, arguing that the three stations had taken the form either of mobile \"pageants\" or fixed \"mansions\" grouped together on a single acting area, or \"platea\". As William Tydeman points out, much hinges on how one interprets \"processyon\" in line 157 – as referring to a physical procession, or to the procession of the stage action. As this line is part of a passage marked \"si placet\" (i.e. optional) in the text, Wickham believes it hardly likely to have been a direction to the audience, and that it should be interpreted, along with \"proces\" in line 9 and 14, as signifying the thrust of an argument, and not physical movement. In his edition of 1993, Coldewey takes up a revisionist stance, believing that the play was processional in nature and clearly unconvinced by Wickham's argument.\n\nVictor I. Scherb, taking the processional staging as read, builds from it an interpretation that sees the play as a theatrical triptych that uses framing devices which serve to draw the audience's focus on the central scene, that of Saul's conversion. This station is framed spatially not only by the procession, but also in terms of \"high\" and \"low\", thanks to scenes involving God, devils and ostlers. Indeed, the ostler with ideas above his station being seen thrown in dung is taken as a reflection of Saul's own pride, for which he is cast down on the road to Damascus. The purpose of these devices is to provide the audience – turned, thanks to the amount of direct address in the play, into a congregation – with a spiritual model of the turning away from worldliness.\n\nFor the 1982 production at Winchester Cathedral the stage direction \"daunce\" was interpreted as a means of moving the audience across stations.\n\n\"The Digby Conversion of St. Paul\" was also performed in 1994 by Poculi Ludique Societas in Toronto.\n\nIn November 2000, The Marlowe Project, a production company devoted to early theatre, performed \"The Conversion of Saint Paul\" at the Church for All Nations in New York City. The text was modernised and slightly adapted by director Jeff Dailey, who also wrote about the problems performing the play in his article, \"Saint Paul's Horse and Related Problems\" in the 2001 edition of \"Research Opportunities in Renaissance Drama.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53743975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53743975", "title": "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel", "text": "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel\n\nThe Marvelous Mrs. Maisel is an American period comedy-drama web television series created by Amy Sherman-Palladino, that premiered on March 17, 2017. The series stars Rachel Brosnahan as the titular Miriam \"Midge\" Maisel, a housewife in 1958 New York City who discovers she has a knack for stand-up comedy. Following the premiere of the pilot episode to critical acclaim, the series was picked up by Amazon for a two-season order on April 10, 2017.\n\nThe first season was released on November 29, 2017, to positive reviews. The series won two Golden Globe Awards (Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy and Best Actress – Musical or Comedy for Brosnahan) and five Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Comedy Series and Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series for Brosnahan. It was renewed for a third season on May 20, 2018, before the second season had aired. The second season is scheduled to premiere on December 5, 2018.\n\nMiriam \"Midge\" Maisel is an upper middle class Jewish housewife living on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in 1958. Her husband, Joel, is a businessman who moonlights as a struggling comedian at The Gaslight Cafe.\n\nOne night, after a particularly unsuccessful performance as a stand-up comedian, Joel confesses to Midge that he has been having an affair with his secretary, and leaves her. Devastated when her husband walks out, with her powder-blue suitcase, Midge gets drunk and returns to the Gaslight Cafe. She impulsively goes on stage, delivering an impromptu set, confessing her predicament to the audience. Her bawdy, biting and brilliant delivery enthralls the audience. She gets so carried away describing her misfortune, that she partly strips, after which she is promptly arrested. She is hauled off to jail with the not-yet famous, iconic comic, Lenny Bruce. After she bails him out of jail, Bruce warns Midge that the comedy business is terrible, but Midge takes his warning as encouragement and teams up with Susie Meyerson, Gaslight Cafe comedy club employee and comic manager wannabe, to hone her act. Susie encourages Midge to push herself to become a professional stand-up comedienne, although Midge at first is not so sure.\n\nWhen Midge moves back in with her parents with her two young children, she decides to get a job as a cosmetics saleswoman at the high-end department store, B. Altman. Her job exposes her to an additional world which she can draw from to develop her comedy, in addition to providing a sense of independence. She begins to go to parties, further developing her comic skills.\n\nAfter touring around the many clubs to see a variety of comedians performing in New York, she meets top comedienne, Sophie Lennon, and is invited to visit her for lunch before Midge opens for her in a New Jersey club. At lunch Midge discovers that the real Sophie is a far cry from the comic persona she portrays on stage. Lennon urges Midge to find a persona for herself, warning her that she will not succeed at comedy by just being \"herself,\" because no one wants to laugh at a beautiful, smart, feminine woman - only men can be themselves on stage. Not one to be told that she is not good enough for anything, Midge exposes Lennon's secret in a hilarious routine which gets her and Susie \"blackballed\" from any and all venues in New York. Once again enlisting the help of Bruce, Midge is able to perform, and brings down the house with her insightful, but caustic humor. Unbeknownst to Midge, her husband is in the audience. They had just the night before gotten back together, but nevertheless Midge is still hurt over the affair and the separation, and expresses her feelings in her set. Joel, Midge's husband, leaves the club, drunk and confused when he realizes just how much he hurt Midge, and how talented and funny she is. Season One ends with Midge declaring her new stage name is Mrs. Maisel.\n\n\n\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\nAmy Sherman-Palladino was inspired by childhood memories of her father (a standup comedian based in NYC) and an admiration for early female comics such as Joan Rivers. Sherman-Palladino explained the show concept as follows:I wanted to do a story about a woman who thought she’d scored...She’d gotten it all, and then, bam, it all falls apart. And in falling apart, she discovers an ambition and a need to speak, and a voice that she just frankly didn’t know was there.”\n\nThe series drew inspiration from female comedians of the time period like Rivers and Totie Fields.\n\nOn June 6, 2016, it was announced that Amazon had given the production a pilot order. The pilot episode was written by Sherman-Palladino, who was also expected to executive produce. On March 2, 2017, it was reported that the pilot would premiere as a part of Amazon's Spring 2017 pilot season on March 17, 2017. On April 10, 2017, it was announced that Amazon had given the production a series order consisting of two seasons. The series was expected to be executive produced by Sherman-Palladino and Daniel Palladino with Dhana Gilbert serving as a producer. On October 10, 2017, it was reported that the series would premiere on November 29, 2017.\n\nOn May 20, 2018, it was announced that Amazon had renewed the series for a third season. On October 24, 2018, it was announced that the second season would premiere on December 5, 2018.\n\nOn August 5, 2016, it was announced that Rachel Brosnahan had been cast in the pilot's titular lead role. In September 2016, it was reported that Tony Shalhoub and Michael Zegen had joined the pilot's main cast. On October 6, 2016, it was announced that Marin Hinkle had been cast in one of the pilot's main roles. In May 2017, it was reported that Joel Johnstone, Caroline Aaron, Kevin Pollak, and Bailey De Young were set to appear in recurring roles.\n\nOn May 23, 2018, it was announced that Zachary Levi would appear in the second season in a recurring capacity. On August 15, 2018, it was reported that Jane Lynch would reprise her role of Sophie Lennon in recurring capacity in season two.\n\nPrincipal photography for the pilot took place from September 27 to October 14, 2016 in Manhattan. On October 4 and 5, 2016, filming took place at 96 St. Marks Place where exterior shots were being filmed. Residents of the building used for filming were reportedly unhappy about the disruption that the production would cause.\n\nThe \"apartment\" where Midge and her husband Joel live was created on the same set as the apartment where Midge's parents live, but with more modern (late-1950s) design, inspired in part by Doris Day movies, according to production designer Bill Groom. The retro looking typeface used for the main title is called Sparkly and was designed by Stuart Sandler of Font Diner.\n\nOn October 10, 2017, the official trailer for the first season was released. On August 9, 2018, a teaser trailer for the second season was released. On October 24, 2018, the official trailer for season two was released.\n\nOn November 13, 2017, the series held its official premiere at the Village East Cinema in New York City.\n\nThe series has been met with a positive response from critics since its premiere. On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the first season has an approval rating of 94% based on 70 reviews, with an average rating of 7.63 out of 10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel\" is an upbeat addition to Amazon's original offerings, propelled by a playful yet poignant performance by Rachel Brosnahan.\" On Metacritic the series has an average weighted score of 80 out of 100, based on 27 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nThe pilot episode of \"The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel\" was one of Amazon Video's most successful ever, achieving an average viewer rating of 4.9 (out of 5). The review of the pilot in \"The Guardian\" praised the \"combination of [Sherman-Palladino's] banging dialogue and the utterly winning charm of Brosnahan\", while \"The A.V. Club\" praised the \"outstanding\" production design and said \"this is a series that's as confident as its heroine—and what a heroine she is. Midge is already layered, conflicted, hilarious, and charming.\" A critic for \"Slate\" called the episode \"a knockout\", stating that the stand-up element \"introduces a welcome streak of discipline, both verbal and thematic, into Sherman-Palladino’s charming but manic work.\"\n\n\"The Jerusalem Post\" highlighted the exceptionally well done \"Jewishness\" of the work, calling it a \"comedic delight of a show, combining Sherman-Palladino’s knack for witty dialogue with the colorful, rich world of 1950s New York and the intensity of family drama and changing times.\" NPR similarly highlighted the effectiveness of the comedy in the show, writing \"\"The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel\" isn't aiming for realism. It's a heroic fantasy. And Midge's humor, one might say, is the ultimate version of staircase wit. Recklessly honest, she says what female comedians \"would've\" said half a century ago — if they had only been free to say it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "15372940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15372940", "title": "The Teapot", "text": "The Teapot\n\n\"The Teapot\" (Danish: \"Theepotten\") is a literary fairy tale by Danish poet and author Hans Christian Andersen about a teapot and her adventures. The tale was first published 1863 and demonstrates the Andersen's talent for investing ordinary household objects with life, character, and personality.\n\nA porcelain teapot rules the tea table. She is very proud of her handle and spout, but not quite so proud of her lid (which is cracked). She is very proud of holding the tea leaves and of being the one to pour forth her contents for thirsty humankind. One day, the teapot is dropped and the handle and spout are broken. She is given to a beggar woman who fills her with soil and plants a flowering bulb within her. The teapot then feels a happiness she has never known. At the last, the teapot is broken in two, the bulb removed to a bigger pot, and the teapot thrown away. She cherishes her memories.\n\nThe tale was first published December 1863 in \"Folkekalender for Danmark\". The work was republished 12 December 1871 in the fourth volume of \"Fairy Tales and Stories. 1871.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38455795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38455795", "title": "Universum (journal)", "text": "Universum (journal)\n\nUniversum is a peer-reviewed academic journal specialising in social sciences and humanities of Latin America. It is published by the Instituto de Estudios Humanísticos Abate Juan Ignacio Molina (University of Talca) and is also financed by that university with the sponsorship of local companies. The editor-in-chief is Francisco Javier Pinedo (University of Talca).\n"}
{"id": "5491413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5491413", "title": "Versus (journal)", "text": "Versus (journal)\n\nVersus: Quaderni di studi semiotici (often abbreviated as VS) is a semiotic journal in Italy. Founded by Umberto Eco, et al. in 1971, it has been an important confrontation space for a large number of scholars of several fields coping with signs and signification. Its foundation and activities have contributed to consolidate the perception of semiotics as an academic field in itself both in Italy and in Europe.\n\n\"Versus\" has published original articles by most influential European semioticians, including; Umberto Eco, A.J. Greimas, Jean-Marie Floch, Paolo Fabbri, Jacques Fontanille, Claude Zilberberg, Ugo Volli and Patrizia Violi. At the same time, almost every issue also contains articles by younger, less famous semioticians dealing with new research perspectives in semiotics.\n\nEach issue is focused on a specific argument, like iconism, translation and history of sign or on studies regarding a specific author (such as Louis Hjelmslev, Charles Sanders Peirce or Michel Bréal).\n\n"}
{"id": "47158305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47158305", "title": "Yarımburgaz Cave", "text": "Yarımburgaz Cave\n\nYarimburgaz Cave () is a cave of significant archaeological and paleontological importance, located within Istanbul Province, Turkey.\n\nYarımburgaz Cave is approximately west of the city of Istanbul, and about north of Lake Küçükçekmece and south of Sazlıdere Dam. It is situated in a locality known today as Altınşehir, within the neighborhood of Güvercintepe in Başakşehir district.\n\nThe cave was formed as a result of a subterranean river eroding an ancient limestone formation. It has two entrances, one above the other. The lower entrance is at an altitude of AMSL, which the upper entrance is situated above. The cave is on the eastern bank of the Sazlıdere creek, which empties into Lake Küçükçekmece. The entrances face southwards overlooking Sazlıdere Valley. Whereas the lower cave has a length of , the upper is only long. After about inside, a short, sloping passage connects both caves. The lower cave is in the form of a meandering tunnel, forking into two at a distance of from the mouth. The upper cave's chamber is wide and in height.\n\nThe cave is an important fossil site which has been researched by archeologists, paleontologists, geoarchaeologists and biospeleologists. Scientific exploration of the cave began in the mid-19th century. Excavation attempts made in 1920 were followed by systematic archaeological work in the 1980s financially supported by the National Geographic Society.\n\nIn the Byzantine era, a cave-church was carved into the walls of the upper cave, and a monastery was built outside the cave mouth. Although these alterations may have resulted in the loss of prehistoric material, some artefacts remain in the cave. In the upper cave, traces of settlements were found dating back to the Upper Paleolithic subdivision of the Stone Age up until the Chalcolithic period of the Bronze Age. These traces were lying on beach sand from the last interglacial period and beneath debris from Byzantine and later times. The beach sand covers sediments with Lower Paleolithic artifacts. The upper cave was destroyed by treasure hunting and illicit diggings, which left -deep pits. Unlike the prehistoric deposits found in the lower cave, the upper cave lacks any evidence of debris from that era.\n\nThe existence of paleontological and archaeological findings point towards the use of the cave as a human and an animal habitat, alternatively. The finds include bones of herbivore and carnivore mammals, marine and freshwater molluscs, microfauna as well as artifacts like potsherds, knives on flint, oldowans, choppers and hammerstones on quartzite, as well as manuports. The wide variety of prehistoric faunal specimens belong to bones of herbivore mammals such as cave bears (\"Ursus deningeri\"), horses (\"Equus caballus\"), wild boars (\"Sus scrofa\"), fallow deer (\"Dama dama\"), roe deer (\"Capreolus capreolus\"), deer (\"Megaloceros\"), cattle (\"Bos\"/\"Bison\"), antilopes (\"Gazella\"), goats (\"Capra\"), and carnivores such as wolves and dogs (\"Canis\"), foxes (\"Vulpes\"), tigers (\"Panthera\"), cats (\"Felis\") and hyenas (\"Crocuta\"). Findings of \"more than 5000 fossil bones and teeth of cave and brown bears\", which provide some chronological indicators, led to their extensive scientific study. Another subject of such extensive study were the fossils of several species of Middle Pleistocene bats (Chiroptera), including horseshoe bats (\"Rhinolophus\"), mouse-eared bats (\"Myotis\"), long-eared bats (\"Plecotus\") and bent-winged bats (\"Miniopterus\").\n\nSome artifacts found in Yarımburgaz Cave are exhibited in the Istanbul Archaeology Museums.\n\nIn 2001, Yarımburgaz Cave was declared an archaeological-nature reserve of first grade. It is also listed as \"Cultural Property under Enhanced Protection\".\n\nDuring the last two decades, the cave suffered serious, irreversible damage caused by the external interactions of humans. Following scientific excavations inside the cave, and the related publications in the 1990s, the cave gained wide popularity. For this reason, it was brought to the attention of several picnickers, treasure hunters, illegal explorers, amateur speleologists and archaeologists due to its past use as a historic cave-church and its proximity to the city center. In order to prevent further damage, the cave was closed off with iron bar gates during the scientific excavations between 1988 and 1990. However, because of neglect by the respective authorities, the gates lost their function in later years, and the cave would inevitably become a shelter frequented by drug users and prostitutes, who littered it. Currently, the cave walls are painted and scratched with graffiti.\n\nTo establish a mushroom farm inside the cave, the cave grounds were leveled by a grader. The mouth of the cave was enlarged even to enable the grader's entry.\n\nThe cave was also used several times as a setting in filmmaking and television productions that left permanent modifications inside the cave. The cave featured in the 1971 movie \"Ali Baba ve Kırk Haramiler\" (English: \"Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves\"), based on the folk tale Ali Baba, with a role as the treasure cave that opens with the magic words \"open sesame\" and closes off with \"close sesame\", respectively. For the filming of an episode of the television series \"Küçük Ağa\" (English: \"Little Agha\"), historic frescos on the cave walls were scratched off and removed, and some of them were painted over with exit signs. During the filming of the science-fiction movie \"Yorr’un Öyküsü\" (English: \"The Story of Yorr\"), a large pool was built inside the cave, which was then detonated by explosives according to the scenario. The cave also became a setting for the television comedy series \"Leyla ile Mecnun\" produced by the state-owned Turkish Radio and Television Corporation (TRT), in which fire was set to depict hell. The filming of some episodes of the television series \"Muhteşem Yüzyıl\" (English: \"The Magnificent Century\"), a prime-time historical soap opera, inside the cave without proper permission allegedly caused damage to the cave. As such, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism filed a complaint against the producers.\n\nA group of local politicians inspected the cave in February 2015, and reported that the cave's protection is still neglected despite its importance and status.\n\n"}
{"id": "251567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251567", "title": "Zahi Hawass", "text": "Zahi Hawass\n\nZahi Hawass (; born May 28, 1947) is an Egyptian archaeologist, an Egyptologist, and former Minister of State for Antiquities Affairs. He has also worked at archaeological sites in the Nile Delta, the Western Desert, and the Upper Nile Valley.\n\nHawass was born in a small village near Damietta, Egypt. Although he originally dreamed of becoming an attorney, he obtained a bachelor of arts degree in Greek and Roman Archaeology from Alexandria University in Alexandria, Egypt in 1967. In 1979, Hawass earned a diploma in Egyptology from Cairo University. Hawass then worked at the Great Pyramids as an inspector—a combination of administrator and archaeologist. When he was 33 years old, Hawass was awarded a Fulbright Fellowship to attend the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia to study Egyptology, earning a master of arts degree in Egyptology and Syro-Palestinian Archaeology in 1983, and his PhD in Egyptology in 1987 from the Graduate Group in the Art and Archaeology of the Mediterranean World (AAMW), concentrating on \"The Funerary Establishments of Khufu, Khafra and Menkaura During the Old Kingdom.\"\n\nAfter 1988, Hawass taught Egyptian archaeology, history and culture at the American University in Cairo, and the University of California, Los Angeles. Hawass has described his efforts as trying to help institute a systematic program for the preservation and restoration of historical monuments, while training Egyptians to improve their expertise on methods of excavation, retrieval and preservation.\n\nHawass was appointed to the position of Chief Inspector of the Giza Pyramid Plateau, but left the position in 1993—according to Hawass, a resignation. Hawass was reinstated as Chief Inspector in early 1994. In 1998, Hawass was appointed as director of the Giza Plateau, and in 2002 as Secretary General of the Egyptian Supreme Council of Antiquities.\n\nAs his biography at the National Geographic Explorers webpage notes, he claims to be\n\nWhen U.S. President Barack Obama was in Cairo in June 2009, Hawass gave him personal tours of the sites of ancient Egypt. At the end of 2009, he was promoted by President Hosni Mubarak to the post of Vice Minister of Culture.\n\nOn January 29, 2011, in the midst of the Egyptian protests of that year, Hawass arrived at the Egyptian Museum to find that a number of cases had been broken into and a number of antiquities damaged, so police were brought in to secure the museum. According to Andrew Lawler, reporting for \"Science,\" Hawass \"faxed a colleague in Italy that 13 cases were destroyed. 'My heart is broken and my blood is boiling,' the… archaeologist lamented.\"\n\nHawass later told \"The New York Times\" that thieves looking for gold broke 70 objects, including two sculptures of Tutankhamun, and took two skulls from a research lab, before being stopped as they left the museum.\n\nHe was appointed Minister of State for Antiquities Affairs, a newly created cabinet post, by Mubarak on January 31, 2011 as part of a cabinet shake-up during the 2011 Egyptian protests. A press release including a statement from Hawass stated that he \"will continue excavating, writing books, and representing his country,\" ensuring that archaeological sites in Egypt were being safeguarded and looted objects returned. Regarding the Egyptian Museum looting, he said that \"The museum was dark and the nine robbers did not recognise the value of what was in the vitrines. They opened thirteen cases, threw the seventy objects on the ground and broke them, including one Tutankhamun case, from which they broke the statue of the king on a panther. However, the broken objects can all be restored, and we will begin the restoration process this week.\" Hawass rejected comparisons with the looting of antiquities in Iraq and Afghanistan.\n\nOn February 13, Mahmoud Kassem of \"Bloomberg\" reported Hawass as saying that \"18 artifacts, including statues of King Tutankhamun,\" were stolen from the Egyptian Museum in January; Kassem, paraphrasing Hawass, continues, \"The missing objects include 11 wooden shabti statuettes from Yuya, a gilded wooden statue of Tutankhamun carried by a goddess and a statue of Nefertiti making offerings.\"\n\nEgyptian state television reported that Hawass called upon Egyptians not to believe the “lies and fabrications” of the Al Jazeera and Al Arabiya satellite television channels. Hawass later said “They should give us the opportunity to change things, and if nothing happens they can march again. But you can’t bring in a new president now, in this time. We need Mubarak to stay and make the transition.” On March 3, 2011 he resigned after a list was posted on his personal website of dozens of sites across Egypt that were looted during the 2011 protests.\n\nHawass was reappointed Minister of Antiquities by then-Prime Minister Essam Sharaf, On March 30, 2011 a tweet was posted stating \"I am very happy to be the Minister of Antiquities once again!\" but resigned on July 17, 2011, after Sharaf informed him he would not be continuing in the position. According to opinion report from an Egyptian commentator in \"The Guardian,\" Hawass was \"sacked\".\n\nHawass has since begun working as a lecturer in Egypt and around the world, and promoting Egypt’s tourism globally in cooperation with the country's Ministry of Tourism. He also writes weekly articles in various newspapers and magazines, and continues working as an archaeologist and consultant.\n\nHawass has written and co-written many books relating to Egyptology, including \"The Curse of the Pharaohs: My Adventures with Mummies,\" and \"King Tutankhamun: The Treasures from the Tomb,\" the latter published to coincide with a major exhibition in the UK. He has also written on Tutankhamun for the bi-monthly, UK-based magazine \"Ancient Egypt.\"\n\nHawass is a regular columnist for \"Egypt Today\" magazine, and the online historical community, Heritage Key. He has narrated several videos on Egyptology, including a series on Tutankhamun.\n\nHawass has appeared on television specials on channels such as the National Geographic Channel, The History Channel and Discovery Channel. Hawass has also appeared in several episodes of the U.S. television show \"Digging for the Truth\", discussing mummies, the pyramids, Tutankhamun, Cleopatra, and Ramesses II. He also appeared on \"Unsolved Mysteries\" during a segment on the curse of Tutankhamun's tomb. In 2010, Hawass appeared on a reality-based television show on The History Channel called \"Chasing Mummies\".\n\nHawass also worked alongside Egyptologist Otto Schaden during the opening of Tomb KV63 in February 2006 – the first intact tomb to be found in the Valley of the Kings since 1922.\n\nIn June 2007 Hawass announced that he and a team of experts may have identified the mummy of Hatshepsut, in KV60, a small tomb in the Valley of the Kings. The opening of the sealed tomb was described in 2006 as \"one of the most important events in the Valley of the Kings for almost a hundred years.\"\n\nHawass hosted and played further creative roles in the documentary \"Egypt's Ten Greatest Discoveries\".\n\nHawass spearheaded a movement to return many prominent unique and/or irregularly taken Ancient Egyptian artifacts, such as the Rosetta Stone, the bust of Nefertiti, the Dendera zodiac ceiling painting from the Dendera Temple, the bust of Ankhhaf (the architect of the Khafra Pyramid), the faces of Amenhotep III's tomb at the Louvre Museum, the Luxor Temple's obelisk at the Place de la Concorde and the statue of Hemiunu, nephew of the Pharaoh Khufu, builder of the largest pyramid, to Egypt from collections in various other countries. In July 2003 the Egyptians requested the return of the Rosetta Stone from the British Museum. Hawass, as Secretary General of the Supreme Council of Antiquities in Cairo, told the press, \"If the British want to be remembered, if they want to restore their reputation, they should volunteer to return the Rosetta Stone because it is the icon of our Egyptian identity.\" Referring to antiquities at the British Museum, Hawass said “These are Egyptian monuments. I will make life miserable for anyone who keeps them.” Britain has refused to return them.\n\nAlex Joffe of the \"Wall Street Journal\" expressed the opinion that the looting of antiquities during the 2011 civil unrest in Egypt made Hawass' quest to return Egyptian antiquities to Egypt \"misguided or at least poorly timed.\"\n\nHawass has been skeptical of the DNA testing of Egyptian mummies, \"From what I understand,\" he has said, \"it is not always accurate and it cannot always be done with complete success when dealing with mummies. Until we know for sure that it is accurate, we will not use it in our research.\"\n\nIn December 2000, a joint team from Waseda University in Japan and Cairo's Ain Shams University tried to get permission for DNA testing of Egyptian mummies, but was denied by the Egyptian Government. Hawass stated at the time that DNA analysis was out of the question because it would not lead to anything.\n\nIn February 2010, Hawass and his team announced that they had analyzed the mummies of Tutankhamun and ten other mummies and said that the king could have died from a malaria infection that followed a leg fracture. German researchers Christian Timmann and Christian Meyer have cast doubt on this theory, suggesting other possible alternatives for Tutankhamun's cause of death.\n\nIn 2012, a study signed by Hawass disclosed that Ramses III had a haplogroup that is associated with the Bantu expansion and is the most dominant in Sub-Saharan Africa, E1b1a.\n\nHawass is the recipient of the Egyptian state award of the first degree for his work in the Sphinx restoration project. In 2002, he was awarded the American Academy of Achievements' Golden Plate and the glass obelisk from US scholars for his efforts to the protection and preservation of Ancient Egyptian monuments. In 2003, Hawass was given international membership in the Russian Academy for Natural Sciences (RANS), and in 2006, he was chosen as one of the world's 100 most influential people by \"Time magazine\".\n\nHawass has been accused of domineering behaviour, forbidding archaeologists to announce their own findings, and courting the media for his own gain after they were denied access to archaeological sites because, according to Hawass, they were too amateurish. A few, however, have said in interviews that some of what Hawass has done for the field was long overdue. Hawass has typically ignored or dismissed his critics, and when asked about it he indicated that what he does is for the sake of Egypt and the preservation of its antiquities.\n\nHawass has been a long-standing opponent of normalized relations between Israel and Egypt. In January 2009 Hawass wrote in \"Al-Sharq Al-Awsat\" that \"The concept of killing women, children, and elderly people ... seems to run in the blood of the Jews of Palestine\" and that \"the only thing that the Jews have learned from history is methods of tyranny and torment — so much so that they have become artists in this field.\" He explained that he was not referring to the Jews' \"[original] faith\" but rather \"the faith that they forged and contaminated with their poison, which is aimed against all of mankind.\" In an interview on Egyptian television in April 2009 Hawass stated that \"although Jews are few in number, they control the entire world\" and commented on the \"control they have\" of the American economy and the media. He later wrote that he was using rhetoric to explain political fragmentation among the Arabs and that he does not believe in a \"Jewish conspiracy to control the world\".\n\nCriticism of Hawass, in Egypt and more broadly, increased following the protests in Egypt in 2011. On July 12, 2011, \"The New York Times\" reported on a story on page A1 that Hawass receives an honorarium each year \"of as much as $200,000 from National Geographic to be an explorer-in-residence even as he controls access to the ancient sites it often features in its reports.\" The \"Times\" also reported that he has relationships with two American companies that do business in Egypt.\n\nOn April 17, 2011, Hawass was sentenced to jail for one year for refusing to obey a court ruling relating to a contract for the gift shop at the Egyptian Museum to a company with links to Hawass. The ruling was appealed and this specific sentence was suspended pending appeal. The following day, the National Council of Egypt’s Administrative Court issued a decree to overturn the court's original ruling, specifying that he would serve no jail time, and would instead remain in his position as Minister of Antiquities. The jail sentence was lifted after a new contract was solicited for the running of the gift shop.\n\nAs its Minister of Antiquities, Hawass has been closely associated with the government of former President Hosni Mubarak. His resignation as minister on March 3, 2011 and his re-appointment to the Ministry on March 30, 2011 have been seen as part of the overall events surrounding Mubarak's resignation. It has been reported that his re-appointment has angered numerous factions, who have opposed the appointment of any of the old guard under Mubarak to new positions in the government. The 2011 Egyptian protests resulted in increased criticism of Hawass. Demonstrators called for his resignation, and the upheaval has increased attention on his relationship with the Mubarak family and the way in which he has increased his public profile in recent years.\n\nHawass has lent his name to a line of men's apparel, described by \"The New York Times\" as \"a line of rugged khakis, denim shirts and carefully worn leather jackets that are meant, according to the catalog copy, to hark \"back to Egypt’s golden age of discovery in the early 20th century\"; the clothing was first sold at Harrods department store in London, in April 2011. Critics say the Hawass clothing commercializes Egyptian history, and objected to their understanding that \"models had sat on or scuffed priceless ancient artifacts during the photo shoot,\" an accusation that was denied by Hawass and the clothing manufacturers. Hawass already sells a line of Stetson hats reproducing the ones he wears, which \"very much resemble\" the ones worn by Harrison Ford in the \"Indiana Jones\" movies.\n\n\n"}
