{"id": "11312673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11312673", "title": "Abhai (saint)", "text": "Abhai (saint)\n\nAbhai is a saint of the Syriac Orthodox Church. He is said to have lived for 100 years. He is a patron saint against poisonous reptiles. His feast day is celebrated on July 15 and May 3. He is included in the \"Syrian Martyrology of Rabban Silba\".\n\nSaint Abhai is not to be confused with the 4th-century Syriac martyr Abai.\n"}
{"id": "359720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=359720", "title": "Adoniram Judson", "text": "Adoniram Judson\n\nAdoniram Judson, Jr. (August 9, 1788 – April 12, 1850) was an American Congregationalist and later Baptist missionary, who served in Burma for almost forty years. At the age of 25, Adoniram Judson became the first Protestant missionary sent from North America to preach in Burma. His mission and work with Luther Rice led to the formation of the first Baptist association in America to support missionaries.\n\nAt times mistakenly referred to as the first Protestant missionary to Burma, he was in fact preceded by James Chater and Richard Mardon (who both arrived in 1807) as well as by Felix Carey. However, since those predecessors did not remain long, and Judson also translated the Bible into Burmese, as well as established a number of Baptist churches in Burma, Judson is remembered as the first significant missionary in Burma, as well as one of the very first missionaries from America to travel overseas.\n\nJudson was born on August 9, 1788, in Malden, Middlesex County, Massachusetts. He was born to Adoniram Judson, Sr., a Congregational minister, and Abigail (née Brown). Judson entered the College of Rhode Island & Providence Plantations (now Brown University) when he was sixteen, and graduated as valedictorian of his class at the age of nineteen. While studying at college, he met a young man named Jacob Eames, a devout deist and skeptic. Judson and Eames developed a strong friendship, leading to Judson's abandonment of his childhood faith and parents' religious instruction. During this time, Judson embraced the writings of the French philosophes. After graduating from college, Judson opened a school and wrote an English grammar and mathematics textbook for girls.\n\nJudson's deist views were shaken when his friend Eames fell violently ill and died. Both had been sleeping in separate rooms at an inn, and Judson heard the death throes of the person next door, only to learn from the clerk the next morning that his anonymous neighbor had been Mr. Eames, who had indeed died. The shock of learning the dying neighbor's identity – and that Eames had led Judson away from the Christian faith into skepticism, but was now dead – returned Judson back to the faith of his youth, although he was already attending the Andover Theological Seminary. In 1808, Judson \"made a solemn dedication of himself to God\". During his final year at the school, Judson decided upon a missionary career.\n\nIn 1810, Judson joined a group of mission-minded students who called themselves \"the Brethren\". The students inspired the establishment of America's first organized missionary society. Eager to serve abroad, Judson became convinced that \"Asia with its idolatrous myriads, was the most important field in the world for missionary effort\". He, and three other students from the seminary, appeared before the Congregationalists' General Association to appeal for support. In 1810, impressed by the four men's politeness and sincerity, the elders voted to form the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions.\n\nOn September 19, Judson was appointed by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions as a missionary to the East. Judson was also commissioned by the Congregational Church, and soon married Ann Hasseltine on February 5, 1812. He was ordained the next day at the Tabernacle Church in Salem. On February 19, he set sail aboard the brig \"Caravan\" with Luther Rice; Samuel and Harriet Newell; and his wife, Ann (known as \"Nancy\") Judson.\n\nThe Judsons arrived in Calcutta on June 17, 1812. While aboard ship en route to India, he did a focused study on the theology of baptism. He came to the position that believer's baptism was theologically valid and should be done as a matter of obedience to the command of Jesus ().\n\nOn September 6, 1812, he switched to the Baptist denomination along with his wife and they were baptized by immersion in Calcutta by an English missionary associate of William Carey named William Ward.\n\nBoth the local and British authorities did not want Americans evangelizing Hindus in the area, so the group of missionaries separated and sought other mission fields. They were ordered out of India by the British East India Company, to whom American missionaries were even less welcome than British (they were baptized in September, and already in June, the United States had declared war on England). The following year, on July 13, 1813, he moved to Burma, and en route his wife miscarried their first child aboard ship.\n\nJudson offered to Baptists in the United States to serve as their missionary. Luther Rice, who had also converted, was in poor health and returned to America where his work and William Carey's urging resulted in the 1814 formation of the first national Baptist denomination in the United States for Foreign Missions (commonly called the Triennial Convention) and its offshoot the American Baptist Missionary Union.\n\nIt was another difficult year before the Judsons finally reached their intended destination, Burma. Buddhist Burma, Judson was told by the Serampore Baptists, was impermeable to Christian evangelism. Judson, who already knew Latin, Greek, and Hebrew, immediately began studying the Burmese grammar but took over three years learning to speak it. This was due, in part, to the radical difference in structure between Burmese and that of Western languages. He found a tutor and spent twelve hours per day studying the language. He and his wife firmly dedicated themselves to understanding it.\n\nDuring this time they were almost entirely isolated from contact with any European or American. This was the case for their first three years in Burma. Four years passed before Judson dared even to hold a semi-public service. At first, he tried adapting to Burmese customs by wearing a yellow robe to mark himself as a teacher of religion, but he soon changed to white to show he was not a Buddhist. Then, he gave up the whole attempt as artificial and decided that, regardless of his dress, no Burmese would identify him as anything but a foreigner. \n\nHe accommodated to some Burmese customs and built a \"zayat,\" the customary bamboo and thatch reception shelter, on the street near his home as a reception room and meeting place for Burmese men. Fifteen men came to his first public meeting in April 1819. He was encouraged but suspected they had come more out of curiosity than anything else. Their attention wandered, and they soon seemed uninterested. Two months later, he baptized his first Burmese convert, Maung Naw, a 35-year-old timber worker from the hill tribes.\n\nFirst attempts by the Judsons to interest the natives of Rangoon with the Gospel of Jesus met with almost total indifference. Buddhist traditions and the Burmese world view at that time led many to disregard the pleadings of Adoniram and his wife to believe in one living and all-powerful God. To add to their discouragement, their second child, Roger William Judson, died at almost eight months of age.\n\nJudson completed translation of the \"Grammatical Notices of the Burman Language\" the following July and the \"Gospel of Matthew\", in 1817. Judson began public evangelism in 1818 sitting in a zayat by the roadside calling out \"Ho! Everyone that thirsteth for knowledge!\" The first believer was baptized in 1819, and there were 18 believers by 1822.Citation= \"Adoniram Judson:Bound for Burma\" by Janet and Geoff Benge(authors).\n\nIn 1820, Judson and a fellow missionary named Colman attempted to petition the Emperor of Burma, King Bagyidaw, in the hope that he would grant freedom for the missionaries to preach and teach throughout the country, as well as remove the sentence of death that was given for those Burmese who changed religion. \n\nBagyidaw disregarded their appeal and threw one of their Gospel tracts to the ground after reading a few lines. The missionaries returned to Rangoon and met with the fledgling church there to consider what to do next. The progress of Christianity would continue to be slow with much risk of endangerment and death in the Burmese Empire.\n\nIt took Judson 12 years to make 18 converts. Nevertheless, there was much to encourage him. He had written a grammar of the language that is still in use today and had begun to translate the Bible.\n\nHis wife, Ann, was even more fluent in the spoken language of the people than her more academically literate husband. She befriended the wife of the viceroy of Rangoon, as quickly as she did illiterate workers and women.\n\nA printing press had been sent from Serampore, and a missionary printer, George H. Hough, who arrived from America with his wife in 1817, produced the first printed materials in Burmese ever printed in Burma, which included 800 copies of Judson's translation of the \"Gospel of Matthew\". The chronicler of the church, Maung Shwe Wa, concludes this part of the story, \"So was born the church in Rangoon–logger and fisherman, the poor and the rich, men and women. One traveled the whole path to Christ in three days; another took two years. But once they had decided for Christ they were his for all time.\"\n\nOne of the early disciples was U Shwe Ngong, a teacher and leader of a group of intellectuals dissatisfied with Buddhism, who were attracted to the new faith. He was a Deist skeptic to whose mind the preaching of Judson, once a college skeptic himself, was singularly challenging. After consideration, he assured Judson that he was ready to believe in God, Jesus Christ, and the atonement.\n\nJudson, instead of welcoming him to the faith, pressed him further asking if he believed what he had read in the gospel of Matthew that Jesus the son of God died on the cross. U Shwe Ngong shook his head and said, \"Ah, you have caught me now. I believe that he suffered death, but I cannot believe he suffered the shameful death on the cross.\" Not long after, he came back to tell Judson, \"I have been trusting in my own reason, not the word of God…. I now believe the crucifixion of Christ because it is contained in scripture.\"\n\nThe essence of Judson's preaching was a combination of conviction of the truth with the rationality of the Christian faith, a firm belief in the authority of the Bible, and a determination to make Christianity relevant to the Burmese mind without violating the integrity of Christian truth, or as he put it, \"to preach the gospel, not anti-Buddhism.\"\n\nBy 1823, ten years after his arrival, membership of the little church had grown to 18, and Judson had finally finished the first draft of his translation of the entire text of the New Testament in Burmese.\n\nTwo irreconcilable hungers triggered the First Anglo-Burmese War of 1824: Burma's desire for more territory, and Britain's desire for more trade. Burma threatened Assam and Bengal; Britain responded by attacking and absorbing two Burmese provinces into her India holdings to broaden her trade routes to East Asia. The war was a rough interruption of the Baptists' missionary work. English-speaking Americans were too easily confused with the enemy and suspected of spying.\n\nJudson was imprisoned for 17 months during the war between the United Kingdom and Burma, first at Ava and then at Aung Pinle. Judson and Price were violently arrested. Officers led by an official executioner burst into the Judson home, threw Judson to the ground in front of his wife, bound him with torture thongs, and dragged him off to the infamous, vermin-ridden death prison of Ava.\n\nTwelve agonizing months later, Judson and Price, along with a small group of surviving Western prisoners, were marched overland, barefoot and sick, for six more months of misery in a primitive village near Mandalay. Of the sepoy British prisoners-of-war imprisoned with them, all but one died.\n\nThe sufferings and brutalities of those 20 long months and days in prison, half-starved, iron-fettered, and sometimes trussed and suspended by his mangled feet with only head and shoulders touching the ground is described in detail by his wife, shortly after his release. \n\nAnn was perhaps the greater model of supreme courage. Heedless to all threats against herself, left alone as the only Western woman in an absolute and anti-Christian monarchy at war with the West, beset with raging fevers and nursing a tiny baby that her husband had not yet seen, she rushed from office to office in desperate attempts to keep her husband alive and win his freedom.\n\nThe end of the war should have been a time of rejoicing for the mission. As soon as her husband was released by the Burmese, Ann wrote that one good result of the war could be that terms of the treaty which ceded Burmese provinces to the British might provide opportunity to expand the witness of the mission into unreached parts of the country.\n\nOn October 24, 1826, Ann died at Amherst (now Kyaikkami), Burma, a victim of the long, dreadful months of disease, death, stress and loneliness that had been hers for 21 months. Their third child died six months later. She died while her husband was out exploring the ceded province of Tenasserim. It was in the wild hills of that newly British province of Tenasserim that the first signs of rapid growth in Protestant Christianity in Burma began. Within a few years of the end of the war, Baptist membership doubled on an average of every eight years for the 32 years between 1834 and 1866.\n\nThe collapse of Burma's armies brought Judson out of prison, but his release was not complete freedom. In 1826, several months after the surrender, Burma pressed Judson into service as a translator for the peace negotiations. Some have used Judson's acceptance of a role in the treaty negotiations as evidence of complicity in imperialism, but it should be noted that he first acted on behalf of the defeated Burmese as translator, not for the Western victors.\n\nThree significant factors had a part, though not the only part, in the rise of the Burmese Baptist churches. Most of the growth was in British-ruled territory, rather than the Burmese-ruled kingdom. It may also be significant that after an Anglo-Burmese war, the missionaries were American, not British. The most telling factor was religion. Most of the growth came from animist tribes, rather than from the major population group, the Buddhist Burmese. The first Burmese pastor he ordained was Ko-Thah-a, one of the original group of converts, who refounded the church at Rangoon.\n\nWhile the nation was Burmese, a lost province of Great Britain, and the missionaries were American, the apostle of that first numerically significant evangelistic breakthrough was neither Burman, British, nor American. He was a Karen, Ko Tha Byu. Credit is due also to the three missionary pioneers to the Karen people, George Boardman and his wife, Sarah; and Adoniram Judson.\n\nThe Karen people were a primitive, hunted minority group of ancient Tibeto-Burman ancestry scattered in the forests and jungles of the Salween River and in the hills along the southeast coast. Judson was the first missionary to make contact with them in 1827, when he ransomed and freed a debt-slave from one of his early converts. The freed slave, Ko Tha Byu, was an illiterate, surly man who spoke almost no Burmese and was reputed to be not only a thief, but also a murderer who admitted killing at least 30 men, but could not remember exactly how many more.\n\nIn 1828, the former Karen bandit, \"whose rough, undisciplined genius, energy and zeal for Christ\" (Sarah B Judson) had caught the notice of the missionaries, was sent south with a new missionary couple, the Boardmans, into the territory of the strongly animistic, non-Buddhist Karen. Ko Tha Byu was no sooner baptized, when he set off into the jungle alone to preach to his fellow tribe members. Astonishingly, he found them prepared for his preaching. Their ancient oracle traditions, handed down for centuries, contained some startling echoes of the Old Testament that some scholars conjecture a linkage with Jewish communities (or possibly even Nestorians), before their migrations from western China into Burma perhaps as early as the 12th century.\n\nThe core of what they called their \"Tradition of the Elders\" was a belief in an unchangeable, eternal, all-powerful God, creator of heaven and earth, of man, and of woman formed from a rib taken from the man. (Genesis) They believed in humanity's temptation by a devil, and its fall, and that some day a Great Messiah would come to its rescue. They lived in expectation of a prophecy that white foreigners would bring them a sacred parchment roll.\n\nWhile the Boardmans and Ko Tha Byu were penetrating the jungles to the south, Judson shook off a paralyzing year-long siege of depression that overcame him after the death of his wife and set out alone on long canoe trips up the Salween River into the tiger-infested jungles to evangelize the northern Karen. Between trips, he worked unceasingly at his lifelong goal of translating the entire Bible into Burmese. When he finished it at last in 1834, he had been labouring on it for 24 years. It was printed and published in 1835.\n\nIn April of that same year, he married Sarah Hall Boardman, widow of fellow missionary George Boardman. They had eight children, five of whom survived to adulthood. Sarah's health began failing and physicians recommended a return to America. Sarah died en route at St. Helena on September 1, 1845. He continued home, where he was greeted as a celebrity and toured the eastern seaboard raising the profile of and money for missionary activity. Because he could barely speak above a whisper, due to pulmonary illness, his public addresses were made by speaking to an assistant, who would then address the audience.\n\nOn June 2, 1846, Judson married for the third time, to writer Emily Chubbuck, who he had commissioned to write memoirs for Sarah Hall Boardman. They had a daughter born in 1847.\n\nJudson lived to approve and welcome the first single women as missionaries to Burma. A general rule of the mission had hitherto prevented such appointments. Judson said it was \"probably a good rule, but our minds should not be closed\" to making exceptions. The first two exceptions were extraordinary.\n\nSarah Cummings and Jason Tuma arrived in 1832. Cummings proved her mettle at once, choosing to work alone with Karen evangelists in the malaria-ridden Salween River valley north of Moulmein, but within two years she died of fever.\n\nIn 1835, a second single woman, Eleanor Macomber, after five years of mission to the Ojibway Indians in Michigan, joined the mission in Burma. Alone, with the help of Karen evangelistic assistants, she planted a church in a remote Karen village and nurtured it to the point where it could be placed under the care of an ordinary missionary. She lived there five years and died of jungle fever.\n\nJudson developed a serious lung disease and doctors prescribed a sea voyage as a cure. On April 12, 1850, he died at age 61 onboard ship in the Bay of Bengal and was buried at sea, having spent 37 years in missionary service abroad with only one trip back home to America. A memorial to Judson was built on Burial Hill in Plymouth, Massachusetts.\n\nWhen Judson began his mission in Burma, he set a goal of translating the Bible and founding a church of 100 members before his death. By the time of his death, he had accomplished those goals and more: leaving the translated Bible as well as a half-completed Burmese-English dictionary (discussed below), 100 churches, and over 8,000 believers. In large part due to his influence, Myanmar has the third largest number of Baptists worldwide, behind the United States and India. The majority of adherents are Karen and Kachin.\n\nJudson compiled the first ever Burmese-English dictionary; missionary E. A. Steven completed the English-Burmese half. Every dictionary and grammar written in Burma in the last two centuries has been based on ones originally created by Judson. Judson \"became a symbol of the preeminence of Bible translation for\" Protestant missionaries. In the 1950s, Burma's Buddhist prime minister U Nu told the Burma Christian Council \"Oh no, a new translation is not necessary. Judson's captures the language and idiom of Burmese perfectly and is very clear and understandable.\" Though the Bible has been translated numerous times into Burmese, Judson's translation remains the most popular version in Myanmar.\n\nEach July, Baptist churches in Myanmar celebrate \"Judson Day,\" commemorating his arrival as a missionary. Inside the campus of Yangon University is Judson Church, named in his honor, and in 1920 Judson College, named in his honor, merged into Rangoon College, which has since been renamed Yangon University. The American University named in his honor, Judson University was founded in Elgin, Illinois, in 1963, as the liberal arts Judson College was separated from the Northern Baptist Theological Seminary, which moved from Chicago to Lombard, Illinois. This American Judson College became Judson University in 2007 and now also has a campus in Rockford, Illinois.\n\nJudson's change to the validity of believer's baptism, and subsequent need of support, led to the founding of the first national Baptist organization in the United States and subsequently to all American Baptist associations, including the Southern Baptists that were the first to break off from the national organization. Publication of his wife Ann's letters about their mission inspired many Americans to become or support Christian missionaries. At least 36 Baptist churches in the United States are named after Judson, as well as the town of Judsonia, Arkansas. Judson College in Alabama is named after his wife Ann and a dormitory at Maranatha Baptist University carries his name to inspire young ministers. Christian Union owns and operates a ministry center named after him at his undergraduate alma mater, Brown University. His seminary alma mater, Andover Theological Seminary, (now Andover Newton Theological School), named their prestigious annual award as The Judson Award.\n\nJudson is honored with a feast day on the liturgical calendar of the Episcopal Church (USA) on April 12.\n\nJudson Harmon, a former Governor of Ohio, was named after him.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1002268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1002268", "title": "Alfred Rouse", "text": "Alfred Rouse\n\nAlfred Arthur Rouse (6 April 1894 – 10 March 1931) was a British murderer known as the Blazing Car Murderer who was convicted and subsequently hanged at Bedford Gaol for the November 1930 murder of an unknown man in Hardingstone, Northamptonshire in a murder case which became known as the \"Blazing Car Murder\".\n\nThis murder case became known as \"the Blazing Car Murder\" due to the fact Rouse, seeking to fabricate his own death, burned to death an unknown hitchhiker whom he had rendered unconscious inside his car.\n\nThe \"Blazing Car Murder\" is notable because the identity of the victim has never been established, resulting in Rouse being tried, convicted and executed for the murder of an unknown man. Despite recent DNA testing, the identity of the victim still remains unknown.\n\nAlfred Rouse was born in Milkwood Road, Herne Hill, London, on 6 April 1894, one of three children born to an English father and an Irish mother. His father, Walter, was a hosier, whereas his mother was reportedly an actress who deserted her husband and children in 1900. Following his wife's leaving the household, Rouse's father had little time for his children; consequently, Rouse and his two siblings were largely raised by an aunt on his father's side. Alfred was known as a well-behaved child; he and his siblings attended a local council school where he was regarded as a bright and athletic student. A member of the Church of England, Rouse would later become a sacristan at St Saviour's Church in Stoke Newington.\n\nUpon leaving school at age 14, Rouse worked briefly as an office boy for an estate agent, then found more secure employment at a textile manufacturing firm. He worked at this firm for five years before training as a carpenter. He did not abandon his education; attending numerous evening classes to further his education. He also learned to sing, and to play various musical instruments, becoming a proficient pianist, violinist, and mandolinist. Due to his exceptional baritone, Rouse regularly sang at these evening classes. In 1909, Rouse obtained employment at a West End furniture manufacturer. Shortly thereafter, he became acquainted with a young clerk named Lily May Watkins, whom he first met at a local dance and with whom he began a relationship.\n\nJust four days after the outbreak of World War I, Rouse enlisted in the British Army; he was assigned to the 24th Queen's Regiment as a Private. While training in England before his departure for France, Rouse married his fiancée. This ceremony was conducted at St Saviour's Church, St Albans, on 29 November.\n\nRouse arrived in France on 15 March 1915, and was stationed in Paris for some weeks before his unit was sent into battle. Rouse would serve with distinction within the Army, although during this time, he is known to have fathered an illegitimate child. His unit was then committed to the Battle of Festubert, near Béthune, which began on 15 May. In a bayonet attack, Rouse came face to face with a German soldier and lunged at him but missed; the memory of waiting just for an instant for the enemy riposte would remain with him for the rest of his life, and his sleep would be plagued by nightmares.\n\nOn the last day of the Battle of Festubert (and just ten weeks after his arrival in France), Rouse sustained wounds to his head, knee and thigh from a high-explosive shell which exploded close to his head, sending numerous fragments of shrapnel into his head and leg and rendering him unconscious. Rouse did not regain consciousness until his hospital train passed through the town of Bedford en route to a UK Ministry of Defence Hospital Unit. As a result of the injuries he sustained, Rouse remained hospitalised for almost a year; undergoing several operations upon both his left temporal region—some of which were performed to remove embedded shrapnel—and his leg, which was also badly injured. The leg injuries Rouse had sustained left him unable to bend his knee; in addition, he had also developed œdema in his injured leg, meaning he was able to walk, but only with difficulty (an Invaliding Medical Board hearing on 9 December 1915 found that his capacity to walk had been reduced by 75 percent). He was sent to recuperate at Army hospitals in Leeds and, later, Clacton-on-Sea.\n\nRouse was formally discharged from the Army on 11 February 1916, and awarded a military pension of twenty shillings per week.\n\nFollowing his recuperation at the Army hospitals, Rouse returned to live with his wife in Stoke Newington. Contemporary medical records reveal that, at this stage in his life, Rouse was still severely disabled. In July 1916, his doctor noted that Rouse's memory was defective and that he was unable to wear a hat of any kind because the scar around his temporal lobe was irritable. Furthermore, although Rouse's speech and writing abilities were unaffected from this wound, one note in Rouse's medical records reads: \"He sleeps well unless excited in any way\". Consequently, Rouse's military pension was raised to twenty-five shillings per week in August 1916.\n\nIn late January 1917, Rouse's doctor discovered he had made a degree of progress in his recuperation from his leg injury and believed this injury could, by Rouse's own endeavour, be overcome. A year later, Rouse informed his doctor he was suffering from bouts of dizziness, although the doctor noted how talkative Rouse was; even \"[laughing] immoderately at times\". In September 1918, Rouse again complained that he was suffering from a defective memory. Moreover, Rouse complained on this occasion to be suffering from insomnia.\n\nOn 30 July 1919, Rouse was again examined by a doctor who observed that, while Rouse would not allow his knee to be flexed by more than 30 percent, he now suffered no long term disability from the head wound he had suffered in World War I. This doctor could find no physical reason for Rouse's limitation of his knee movement; as such, this was ascribed to neurosis, and his pension, which since September 1918 had been 27 shillings and sixpence per week, was decreased to 12 shillings per week with effect from 17 September 1919. In August 1920, a final examination revealed his head injury had completely healed, and the limitations of his knee movement had decreased dramatically. Rouse's pension was terminated the following month, with his receiving a final lump payment of £41 5 shillings in settlement of all his injury claims.\n\nIn an effort to regain his health and mobility, Rouse became an active member of a local tennis club. Beginning in 1920, he also undertook a number of jobs which required a degree of physical exertion. Many of these jobs involved the use of vehicles, resulting in Rouse becoming a moderately skilled mechanic. The same year, he also began to conduct illicit affairs in which he—invariably posing as a single man—seduced any woman or girl he found attractive. The first known woman he seduced was a 14-year-old Edinburgh girl whom he impregnated at age 15, then abandoned, leaving the girl to give birth to her child in a home for unwed mothers. Four years later, in 1925, Rouse began an affair with a Hendon-based domestic servant named Nellie Tucker. In 1928, Tucker gave birth to a baby girl; shortly thereafter, Tucker obtained a child support order against Rouse (this would prove to be the first child support order served against Rouse).\n\nIn June 1929, Rouse found employment as a commercial traveller for a Leicester-based firm which primarily sold braces and garters, typically at locations around the South Coast and the Midlands. This employment earned Rouse £4 a week, with expenses paid each Friday, and a sales commission paid every month. Through this employment, Rouse managed to earn sufficient money for he and his wife to obtain a mortgage on a house on Buxted Road in the London borough of Friern Barnet. Furthermore, in the summer of 1930, he also purchased a 1928 Morris Minor.\n\nBecause of both Rouse's high sex drive and his general promiscuity, plus the fact his job required him to travel extensively across the entire country, throughout 1929 and 1930 he is known to have conducted a number of affairs with women—both married and single—whom he typically encountered through his employment. As with the 14-year-old whom he had seduced in Edinburgh and Nellie Tucker, many of these women came from poor backgrounds, and would be deceived by Rouse's charismatic personality, his fabrications of being a wealthy London entrepreneur, and his promises of marriage. Furthermore, despite already being married and the father of a child, he is also known to have bigamously married at least three of these women. As a result of these affairs, Rouse fathered a number of illegitimate children.\n\nBy the summer of 1930, Rouse had already had one child support order imposed on him by Nellie Tucker, with whom he had been conducting an affair for several years; Tucker was now heavily pregnant with her second child, and fully expecting him to marry her. A young Welsh woman named Phyllis Jenkins had also been impregnated and was also fully expecting marriage in the near future. In addition, he faced several other impending child support order cases from women across the country, and one woman in Paris.\n\nAt just what point Rouse decided on his scheme is not settled, nor how he arrived at it, as following his arrest, Rouse gave several contradictory accounts as to just how and when he devised his plan. However, he did mention that initially, he had begun to think about committing a murder in which he could fake his own death after he had read reports of the murder of a young Scottish barmaid named Agnes Kesson, who had been found murdered in a rural lane in the market town of Epsom in June 1930, and whose murder would ultimately remain unsolved. Furthermore, he would claim the decision for him to ultimately decide to fake his own death had been Nellie Tucker's announcement to him in the summer of 1930 that she was expecting her second child by him (an illegitimate daughter would be born on 29 October).\n\nAccording to Rouse, he had simply \"wanted to start [life] afresh\", yet to ensure the financial stability of his legal wife and his six-year-old son, he had drawn a life insurance policy for £1,000 in his name months before he executed his plan, to be paid in the event of the accidental death of the owner-driver of his vehicle. This life insurance policy named his legal wife as the benefactor, and on either 2 or 3 November, he had sought out a man of roughly the same build as himself with whom he had become casually acquainted at a pub named the Swan and Pyramid whom he (Rouse) claimed had previously told him \"the usual hard-luck story\", and had informed him: \"Guv'nor, I've got nobody in the world [who] cares whether I live or die.\" In response, Rouse informed the man that, through his employment as a commercial traveller, he would be able to secure a job for him in the Midlands, and that he would be travelling to this location on 5 November.\n\nIn his later confession, Rouse specifically stated he had opted to time the fire in his car to be on Guy Fawkes Night, as \"a fire would not be noticed so much\" on this date due to the typical celebration rituals, and that his victim had readily agreed to accompany him to Leicester on the 5th, upon the promise of his possibly finding work in this city. To minimise any resistance from his victim, Rouse also bought the man a bottle of whisky to consume as he drove north.\n\nAt approximately 1:50 in the morning of 6 November 1930, two young men returning from a Guy Fawkes Night dance in the town of Northampton to their homes in the nearby village of Hardingstone saw a fire in the distance. As Bonfire Night had just passed, the men assumed the pyre they could see in the distance was a bonfire. As they walked down Hardingstone Lane toward the fire in the direction of their homes, a neatly dressed man carrying an attaché case passed in the opposite direction. When one of the young men remarked as to the blaze he could see in the distance, Rouse nodded and exclaimed: \"It looks like somebody's having a bonfire up there.\" He then walked passed the two men before turning in the direction of the main Northampton-London road.\n\nThe two men approached the fire, only to discover the source of the flames was actually a vehicle ablaze in a verge at the side of the country lane, with the flames themselves reaching up to 12 feet in height. Upon summoning the Hardingstone village constable, Bert Copping, and the parish constable to the scene of the fire, the four men extinguished the fire with water from a nearby pond, only to discover a charred corpse lying across the front seats, with the charred remains of the head on the driver's seat, and the right arm burnt off at the elbow. Constable Copping would later recollect he had initially believed the skull of the victim was actually a scorched rugby ball. Crucially, a wooden mallet was found near the car, with three human hairs attached to the head. Although the fire had all but destroyed the Morris Minor, the number plate at the rear of the car was largely undamaged in the fire; thus, police were quickly able to determine the vehicle belonged to one Alfred Arthur Rouse of Friern Barnet.\n\nWhen the two young men informed investigators of their encounter with the man at the end of Hardingstone Lane, police issued an appeal in both the local and national press, urging the man to come forward and assist them with their inquiries. The case was covered in detail in many national newspapers on 7 November.\n\nA forensic examination of the vehicle revealed a joint on the feeding pipe between the petrol tank and the carburettor of the vehicle had been loosened before the fire had ignited, thus allowing petrol to freely stream both into and beneath the car, indicating the blaze had been deliberate. Moreover, spectroscopic tests conducted upon the victim's blood, and a microscopic examination of his air passages revealed the victim had been alive, albeit unconscious, when the fire had started. Furthermore, he was estimated to have died within 30 seconds of the onset of the fire. The victim himself was estimated to have been between 33- and 37-years-old, and due to the condition of his lungs, had likely worked in an extremely dusty atmosphere throughout his life.\n\nPolice visited Rouse's Friern Barnet home to interview his wife. Mrs Rouse was able to confirm her husband had left home at approximately 8:30 p.m. on 5 November to attend a business meeting in Leicester, and that he had arrived home at a time she (incorrectly) believed to be approximately 2 a.m. the following morning, saying nothing. She was then asked to accompany police to Northampton to assist in the identification of the victim. Due to the actual condition of the remains, she was not allowed to see the body, but instead asked to confirm whether she could identify scraps of clothing and a wallet containing 30 shillings which had been found upon the victim. Mrs Rouse stated the items of clothing looked like those her husband had worn, but she could not be certain; the wallet had definitely belonged to her husband.\n\nRouse himself had hitched a ride to London, arriving his Friern Barnet home at approximately 6:20 a.m. He remained at his home for just 30 minutes before travelling by train to Glamorganshire to meet with Phyllis Jenkins (whom he had earlier promised to marry). When Jenkins asked Rouse where his car was, he replied that it had been stolen in Northamptonshire the previous day, and that this was why it had taken him 18 hours to reach her. He assured Jenkins that he had reported the theft to both the police and his insurance company. Early the following morning, Rouse's mistress showed him a newspaper displaying an image of his burned-out car which speculated as to whether the deceased occupant had been the owner of the vehicle, and questioning whether he had been murdered; in response, Rouse denied the car was his, before announcing his intentions to travel by coach to Hammersmith Broadway. At 10 a.m. that morning, he boarded a coach at Cardiff destined for Hammersmith Broadway. When Rouse's coach had departed, Jenkins informed local police that Rouse had been at her house and of his intended destination; they in turn informed the Metropolitan Police Service of his whereabouts. Consequently, that evening, Rouse was arrested at Hammersmith coach terminal by a Detective-Sergeant Skelly of the Metropolitan Police, who had been waiting for him at the coach terminal.\n\nAt the Hammersmith police station, Rouse was informed that officers from the Northamptonshire Police were already travelling to Hammersmith to interview him. In response, Rouse offered a rambling statement in which he claimed his victim was a hitchhiker he had encountered near St Albans, and who had accidentally set his vehicle alight while he (Rouse) had left his vehicle to relieve himself. Rouse further claimed he was travelling to Scotland Yard to confess to his crime at the time of his arrest, adding: \"I am glad it's all over. I was going to Scotland Yard about it. I was responsible. I am very glad it's over. I have had no sleep.\" Upon the arrival of Northamptonshire police officers, Rouse was cautioned, and driven to Northampton police station.\n\nAt Northampton police station, Rouse contradicted his earlier statement by claiming that he had encountered the victim hitchhiking along the Great North Road towards the Midlands, and had offered the man a lift. He had driven to Hardingstone Lane accidentally, because he had lost his direction. At this location, he had stopped the vehicle to answer a call of nature and had asked his travelling companion, whom he had given a cigar, to fill the car's petrol tank from a can in the boot. According to Rouse, when he looked back, the vehicle was ablaze, with the man trapped inside. He had, he claimed, attempted to open the door of the vehicle, but had been beaten back by the flames. In a state of panic as to his predicament, he had fled from the scene.\n\nUpon being confronted with the forensic evidence that the feeding pipe between the petrol tank and the carburettor of the vehicle had been loosened, Rouse remained adamant the fire had been accidental, offering conjecture it may have been started by the inebriated victim lighting the cigar he had been given after he had filled the petrol tank of his vehicle, and accidentally spilled some of the contents of the petrol tank inside his vehicle. Furthermore, when questioned as to why he had been by the two young men seen walking from the scene of the fire with a briefcase in his hand, Rouse claimed he had taken the briefcase out of the car because he had earlier noticed the man had placed his hand upon it.\n\nOn 27 November, Rouse appeared at Northampton assizes, to be formally charged with the murder of an unknown man. He was remanded in custody until 3 December. On this date, a formal trial date of 26 January was set.\n\nThe trial of Alfred Rouse began at the Northampton winter assizes on 26 January 1931. He was tried before Mr. Justice Talbot. The chief prosecuting counsel for the Crown was William Norman Birkett K.C.; he was assisted by Richard Elwes. The chief defence counsel was Donald Finnemore, who was assisted by A. P. Marshall. On this date, Rouse formally pleaded not guilty to the charge of the murder of an unknown man.\n\nThroughout his trial, Rouse stuck to his claim the death of the unknown man had been accidental. To support this contention, Donald Finnemore introduced an engineer who testified that in many instances, excessive heat in a burning car would invariably result in the loosening of the joint on the feeding pipe, and as such, Rouse's contention the victim had inadvertently set the vehicle ablaze could be true. This claim was refuted by both Sir Bernard Spilsbury and Dr. Eric Shaw, who had together performed an autopsy upon the unidentified victim and who were each called to testify on behalf of the prosecution. Both men testified that the victim had been alive and unconscious when the fire had been started, and that the mallet found near the Morris Minor had likely been the weapon used to club the victim about the head prior to the inception of the fire. Spilsbury further testified that one the few fragments of clothing found upon the victim not to have been destroyed in the fire was a section of the fork of the victim's trousers, which was found to be soaked in petrol, thus corroborating the prosecution's contention that Rouse had extensively doused both his victim and his vehicle in petrol before setting his vehicle ablaze. This forensic claim would be challenged by the defence, who alleged the petrol stain supported Rouse's claims the victim may have spilled the petrol over himself while lunging in a drunken stupor.\n\nAnother witness to refute the accidental death theory was a vehicular expert who had studied the remains of the Morris Minor, and who testified that a joint on the feeding pipe between the petrol tank and the carburettor of the vehicle had been forcibly loosened to allow petrol to flow into and beneath the motor, thus discrediting earlier defence claims that excessive heat in a burning car would invariably result in the loosening of this particular joint. (At one stage as Rouse stood in the witness box to reiterate his claims the fire had been accidental, prosecuting attorney William Norman Birkett placed the actual carburettor of Rouse's vehicle in his hands, causing Rouse to become visibly nervous as he attempted to explain earlier witness testimony as to the forcible loosening of the feeding pipe between the petrol tank and carburettor of his vehicle.)\n\nThe prosecution contention at Rouse's trial was that the actual motive behind Rouse's committing this murder had been to fabricate his own death in order that he could escape the financial constraints brought about by his numerous affairs, and to simply start his life afresh. To emphasise this, William Birkett called three of his mistresses to testify, explaining to the jury the testimony of these women would illustrate that \"Rouse's domestic life was not what it should have been\". Also to testify was a Government fire and insurance inspector named Colonel Cuthbert Buckle, who demonstrated to the jury how, in his view, the fire had been deliberately started by what he termed \"human agency\", with a deliberate loosening of the locknut of the petrol feeding pipe.\n\nRouse himself testified in his own defence at his trial. Despite the brief episode of nervousness he had displayed when handling the carburettor as he answered the prosecution's questions as to the loosening of his vehicle's feeding pipe, he often displayed an air of confidence as he reiterated his claims the death of the unknown victim had been accidental. He would often perform poorly in the witness box; repeatedly being forced to either admit to the contradictions in the earlier statements he had provided to police and his current claims, or that he had lied about his actions or movements. He could not, for instance, explain why he had falsely claimed to his mistress in Glamorganshire that his car had been stolen in Northamptonshire and that he had reported the theft to police, or why this mistress had earlier testified that when he had arrived at her house on 6 November he had smelled of petrol, and his eyebrows had appeared slightly scorched.\nThe trial lasted just six days. In a final address to the jury Mr. Justice Talbot stated thus: \"Of course, there can be no doubt about it that these facts create grave suspicion against this man who was the owner of the car, and who drove it to the place where it was burned. If he is an innocent man he has created a grave suspicion against himself by his own folly.\"\n\nThe jury debated for just 25 minutes before reaching their verdict: Rouse was unanimously found guilty of murder and sentenced to death on 31 January. Having calmly heard the verdict, just prior to the sentence of death being imposed, Rouse firmly declared to Mr. Justice Talbot, \"I am innocent, sir.\" Rouse did lodge an appeal against his conviction, primarily contending immoral character evidence had been submitted at his trial, and that this had influenced the jury. His appeal was heard on 23 February 1931, although it would prove unsuccessful.\n\nOn Tuesday, 10 March 1931, Rouse was hanged in Bedford Gaol. In the days prior to his execution, his legal wife and two of his mistresses alternately visited him to bid him a final farewell.\n\nRouse never formally admitted his guilt to the murder for which he had been convicted to the police, although shortly before the execution, he did write a letter to the \"Daily Sketch\" in which he confessed his guilt. In this written confession, Rouse stated that initially, he had resisted any thoughts he had initially developed that summer to commit a murder in which he could fabricate his own death, although a chance encounter with the unknown victim outside a London pub in the autumn of 1930 had led him to rethink his plans.\n\nIn this written confession, Rouse stated that as he had driven his intended victim to the Midlands, he had encouraged him to drink from the bottle of whisky he had purchased in order to inebriate him before turning onto Hardingstone Lane. At this location, he had strangled he victim to the point of unconsciousness before loosening the feeding pipe between the petrol tank and the carburettor of his vehicle; he had then taken the petrol can from the boot and poured petrol on both the victim and about his car before placing the petrol tank in the rear of his car and, standing from a distance, setting the vehicle ablaze with a match.\n\nInitially, Rouse had intended to walk to Northampton and travel to Scotland via train to begin life afresh; however, when he had seen the two young men returning from a Guy Fawkes Night dance at the end of Hardingstone Lane, he realised people would know he was not the victim in the car; therefore, after briefly returning to his London home with a hastily concocted story of his car having been stolen, he had opted to travel to Glamorganshire to meet with one of his mistresses. When he read extensive accounts of the murder in the Welsh press in which he was named as the prime suspect, he had travelled to Hammersmith Broadway, where he was arrested.\n\nIn this confession, published after his execution, Rouse again stated he had never asked his victim's name, claiming \"there was no reason why I should do so\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54328315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54328315", "title": "April 2000 Gambian student massacre", "text": "April 2000 Gambian student massacre\n\nThe April 2000 Gambian student massacre was the killing of 14 people (and one accidental death) by Gambian police officers and soldiers on the 10 April 2000 at a student protest in Banjul, the Gambia. The protest had been called following two separate incidents - the beating to death of secondary school student Ebrima Barry by firefighters, and the rape of a 13-year-old girl by a uniformed police officer - and the lack of investigation of both of those incidents. Despite firing live ammunition into the protesters after government buildings had been damaged, no charges have been brought against those involved, and the Yahya Jammeh government suppressed commemoration of the event. Adama Barrow's government has since promised to investigate the shooting.\n\nOn 8 March 2000, 19-year-old secondary school student Ebrima Barry was murdered by firefighters in Brikama, West Coast Division. Barry's teacher, a Mr Paul, had called firefighters to the school after Barry had insulted him, in order to remove Barry from the classroom, as he was afraid of a physical altercation. However, the firefighters not only removed him from the school but took him to their station where they shaved his head, beat him, forced him to carry heavy bags of cement, stripped him naked, poured cement on him and finally put cement in his mouth and forced him to swallow it. He was able to get home that night but died the next day from his injuries. Later in the week, students from Barry's secondary school converged on the local fire station in protest but were dispersed by police officers.\n\nThe government failed to investigate the matter, leading to the Gambia Student Union (GAMSU) leadership calling for an inquiry. The government, besides expressing surprise that firefighters had been asked to discipline a student, made no further move to investigate the matter. An autopsy report was released which stated that Barry had died of natural causes. The report was widely perceived to be a cover-up. A spontaneous protest ensued at The Gambia College, where GAMSU was active, as well as at other schools. The courts eventually charged seven firefighters with participating in Barry's death, but all seven were acquitted on 2 March 2001.\n\nConcurrently with the developments surrounding Barry's murder, a 13-year-old girl, known in the press as Binta, was allegedly raped by a uniformed paramilitary police officer (part of the Police Intervention Unit) at the Independence Stadium during an inter-schools sports competition. A medical examination confirmed that the girl had been raped, and GAMSU again pressed the government for answers, calling for the girl to be allowed to identify the rapist. Following a long delay in any government action, GAMSU requested a police permit to hold a public protest. The request was denied, but, referring to their constitutional right to protest, GAMSU called its members to take part in a peaceful march towards the capital city of Banjul.\n\nGAMSU decided to hold their protest march on 10 April 2000, and 'thousands' reportedly gathered outside the Gambia Technical Training Institute intending to march towards the Banjul city centre. However, they were stopped by police officers, who ordered them to disperse. Refusing to do so, the police opened fire on the protest with tear gas and rubber bullets. The students then scattered but regrouped, creating barricades out of burning tires and throwing stones at the police. As non-students then joined the fray, government buildings were attacked and a police station was set on fire.\n\nThe police then reacted by opening fire on the protesters with live ammunition. They killed 16 people, 14 of whom were students, as well as a journalist and Red Cross volunteer, Omar Barrow, and a three-year-old child. Hundreds were reported to have been injured. Immediately following the shooting, people were barred by the police from entering the local hospital to identify the dead. A statement released by the President's office following the shooting stated that 28 people had been admitted to Royal Victoria Teaching Hospital. A student nurse drafted in to help during the massacre later described how there was \"immediate chaos in the hospital\" and how during emergency operations on gunshot wounds, radio stations were saying that only rubber bullets had been used.\n\nThe full list of those killed is as follows. Further details are those from a coroner's inquest published by \"Foroyaa\" in 2014.\n\nFollowing the shooting, the government denied allegations that President Yahya Jammeh had given the order to shoot the students. During the crisis, he had been away in Cuba for a summit of the Group of 77. Instead, they issued a statement that blamed student leaders and closed all schools for several days. The statement said: \"There is no doubt that the crisis was incited by the Gambia Students Union and aggravated by some bad elements and bandits who took advantage of the situation, disguising themselves as students and encouraging the crowd of so-called demonstrators to the damage.\"\n\nLater, the Vice-President, Isatou Njie-Saidy, claimed that the students \"killed themselves\", having broken into police armouries and shot each other with stolen weapons. Also, following the incident, families of the victims were in no way compensated by the government and commemoration events were banned for the rest of Jammeh's presidency, until 2017. A subsequent government commission of inquiry, under Chief Justice Felix Lartey, concluded that Police Intervention Unit (PIU) officers were \"largely responsible\" for carrying out the shooting. On 26 January 2001, the government announced that it disagreed with the commission's recommendations and that nobody would be prosecuted. \n\nOn 18 April, the National Assembly approved an Indemnity Bill that backdated to January 2000 and amended the Indemnity Act of 1982, allowing Jammeh to indemnify anyone \"for the purpose of promoting reconciliation in an appropriate case.\" Jammeh signed the bill in May. In essence, it prevented the families of those killed from seeking redress in the courts. Hawa Sisay-Sabally has since described the act as \"tantamount to a coup against the 1997 constitution\" and it has been widely criticised.\n\nFollowing the shooting, students in the country's only boarding school and several other rural towns across the Gambia launched their own protests on 11 April. Like their colleagues in Banjul, they were violently suppressed and hundreds of students were detained across the country.\n\nAs the protests subsided, GAMSU and other human rights groups in the Gambia, including the Gambian branch of Amnesty International, formed a larger group called the Coalition of Human Rights Defenders. This group was able to eventually free all those arrested on 10 and 11 April as well as increasing international awareness of the incident.\n\nIt has been suggested that one of the primary motivations behind the 2014 Gambian coup d'état attempt was the student massacre 14 years earlier.\n\nThe first proper commemoration of the event took place 17 years after it happened, in April 2017. Organised by the April 10/11 Memorial Foundation a march was held followed by a symposium (http://www.april1011gambia.org/) Speaking there, Attorney General and Minister of Justice Ba Tambadou said that justice should prevail for the victims and families of those killed. He said that the Barrow government would try everything in its power to find out who gave the order to shoot the protesters and bring them to justice.\n"}
{"id": "32051467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32051467", "title": "Averoldi Polyptych", "text": "Averoldi Polyptych\n\nThe Averoldi Polyptych is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance painter Titian, dating to 1520–1522 and in the basilica church of Santi Nazaro e Celso in Brescia, northern Italy.\n\nIt is signed \"Ticianus Faciebat / MDXXII\" on the column of the panel with St. Sebastian.\n\nThe work was commissioned by Altobello Averoldi, papal legate in Venice, to Titian at the time he was the official painter of the Republic of Venice. The work was delivered in 1522, as testified by Titian's signature in the lower right panel. The large polyptych was placed at the high altar of the church of Santi Nazaro e Celso of Brescia, then part of the Venetian mainland possessions, replacing another altarpiece by Vincenzo Foppa (of which now a \"Nativity of Jesus\" remains in the church of Santa Maria Assunta at Chiesanuova, as well as two side panels in the Pinacoteca Tosio Martinengo).\n\nA first version of the \"St. Sebastian\" panel was offered to Alfonso d'Este of Ferrara as a compensation for his late in the realization of the \"Bacchanalia\". The Duke declined the offer, and the early \"St. Sebastian\" was perhaps sent to Mantua, where one such painting is mentioned among the artworks sold by the Gonzaga to Charles I of England, although it is no more known afterwards.\n\nAveroldi subsequently also started to complain about the lateness of delivery.\n\nThe use of compartment-divided polyptych, a solution rather old fashioned for the time, was surely an explicit demand of Averoldi. Titian obtained anyway a certain degree of unity, although not a spatial or architectural one as in the 15th century polyptychs: the Veneto painter adopted instead a chromatic-dynamic and light convergence towards the central scene.\n\nThe panels are:\n\nThe work inspired several Brescian Renaissance painters, including Savoldo and Moretto\n\nThe central scene depicts a triumphant and blazing Christ above a dawn dark yellow and grey sky, who holds the Crusader banner as an emblem of the Christian Catholic church. Under him is a group of soldiers with armors.\n\nThe work shows the influence of Raphael's works such as the \"Transfiguration\" (the centripetal position of Christ) and the fresco of the \"Deliverance of Saint Peter\" for the quasi-night atmosphere Another possible influence is that of Danube school, in details such as the landscape illumination and the northern European fashion of the ideal Jerusalem in the background.\n\nThe left panel show the saints Nazarius and Celsus, to which the church housing the altar was dedicated, on a gloomy background. Nazarius wear a shining armor, while his disciple, Celsus, is behind him. The kneeling donor, Altobello Averoldi, the then papal legate to Venice is portrayed from profile, and is stylistically reminiscent of the depiction of Sigismondo de' Conti in Raphael's \"Madonna of Foligno\". The influence of Titian's master, Giorgione, is also visible in the calm atmosphere and the dull colors.\n\nThe right panel shows the traditional \"Martyrdom of Saint Sebastian\", although in this case the saint is depicted in a rather contorted position which likely derived from Michelangelo's \"Punishment of Aman\" in the Sistine Chapel ceiling, or from Raphael's \"Fire of Borgo\" also in the Vatican. The arms are tied to a trunk at different heights, while the legs are also differently articulated due to the presence of a column section.\n\nThe saint's face resembles that of the Christ in the central panel, as well as that of Titian, who was thirty at the time.\n\nIn the background is an angel, who points at Sebastian and talks with Saint Roch: prayers to both saints were invoked as a protection against the plague, and Roch's uncovered legs show the characteristic lesions.\n\nTwo preparatory drawings of the panel exist: one (16.2 x 13.6 cm) is at the Kupferstichkabinett of Berlin, and another (18.3 x 11.5 cm) is in the Städel of Frankfurt.\n\nThe two upper panels show the \"Annunciation\", with the angel on the left and the Virgin on the right, according to a scheme dating to the Middle Ages. Titian painted the two figures under a powerful light, in particular the angel which is illuminated from behind.\n\nHis figure is unrolling a cartouche with the Gospel words \"Ave Gratia Plena\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9900458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9900458", "title": "Billy (pygmy hippo)", "text": "Billy (pygmy hippo)\n\nBilly, or William Johnson Hippopotamus, (1920s – October 11, 1955) was a pygmy hippopotamus given to U.S. President Calvin Coolidge. Captured in Liberia, he was given to Coolidge by Harvey Samuel Firestone in 1927. Billy spent most of his life in the National Zoo in Washington D.C.. In addition to his fame as an exotic presidential pet—which afforded him a trip to the 1939 New York World's Fair—Billy is also notable as the common ancestor to most pygmy hippos in American zoos. By the time of his death in 1955, Billy had sired 23 calves, 13 of whom survived at least a year.\n\nIn 1927, Harvey Samuel Firestone, the founder of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company, acquired Billy in Liberia, where he was captured on one of Firestone Tires' large plantations. Calvin Coolidge, who was the U.S. President at the time, was known for his collection of animals, including many dogs, birds, a wallaby, lion cubs, a raccoon and other unusual animals. At the time, pygmy hippos were virtually unknown in the United States. On May 26, 1927, Coolidge was informed that he would receive the rare hippo, already adult-sized at long and around , as a gift.\n\nIn Coolidge's autobiography he wrote about the unusual menagerie he collected and stated that he donated many of these animals, including Billy, to the National Zoo. Though Coolidge had a deep fascination with animals, he was overshadowed by Theodore Roosevelt, who was more widely known for and associated with his interest in animals. By August 1927, Coolidge had sent the second largest collection of animals of any president after Roosevelt to the zoo, and paid them frequent visits. Upon his arrival, Billy was one of the most-valuable animals the zoo had ever received, and was only the eighth pygmy hippopotamus to be brought to the United States. Billy was a popular animal; several months after his arrival, \"The New York Times\" wrote Billy was \"as frisky as a dog. Even the antics of the monkeys go unobserved when the keeper opens the tiny hippo's cage and cuts up with him.\"\n\nToday, pygmy hippos breed well in captivity: since Billy's arrival, 58 pygmy hippos have been born at the National Zoo alone. As one of the earliest pygmy hippos in captivity in the U.S. zoo system, Billy went on to become the direct ancestor of nearly all pygmy hippos in American zoos. When Billy first came to the zoo, however, keepers did not know much about pygmy hippopotamus husbandry. A mate for Billy, a female named Hannah, was acquired by the zoo on September 4, 1929. Billy's and Hannah's first calf was born on August 26, 1931, but did not survive the week. \"Inability to survive the neglect of an errant mother was the cause given for baby Hippo's demise\", eulogized \"The Washington Post\". Over the next two years, two more calves would follow, both of which died in infancy. Billy's third calf was killed when Hannah rolled on top of the baby and crushed it. \"She's just a bad mother\", said the zoo's long-time director Dr. William M. Mann to \"The Washington Post\", upon the death of the third infant.\n\nAs Hannah's fourth pregnancy progressed, zookeepers noticed she seemed to be less agitated than previous pregnancies and attributed this to their new quarters: during her previous three pregnancies, Hannah had lived in the zoo's lion house, a stressful environment for a pregnant hippo. On Mother's Day of 1938, Hannah gave birth to a healthy baby.\n\nSuch was Billy's popularity in the 1930s that at the end of the decade he traveled to Queens, New York, for the 1939 New York World's Fair, where he appeared in the Firestone exhibit. Billy and Hannah successfully had more calves, and because of Billy's worth as a breeding stud, Mann traveled with the Smithsonian-Firestone Expedition to Liberia in 1940 and acquired a second mate for Billy, another female who came to be known as Matilda.\n\nBetween 1931 and 1954, Hannah gave birth to 15 of Billy's calves, 7 of whom were reared or lived at least one year. Between 1943 and 1956, Matilda gave birth to 8 of Billy's calves, 6 of which were reared. At some point during the 1940s, the press started to refer to Billy as William Johnson Hippopotamus. The zoo developed the tradition of naming all his calves Gumdrop, using Roman numerals to distinguish them. By the birth of Gumdrop XVI, the zoo had noticed something curious: of all Billy's calves, only one was male. Research would later confirm that pygmy hippos in captivity are far more likely to give birth to females, though not by such an extreme ratio as Billy. Twenty-three years after Coolidge's death (January 5, 1933) Billy himself died on October 11, 1955, five months before the birth of Gumdrop XVIII. \"He carried his work on to the end\", said a zoo official. Hannah followed Billy in death on March 6, 1958.\n\nAfter a year or two at the National Zoo, Billy's offspring were typically sent to other locations. Among the places to which his progeny were transferred: the Cole Bros. Circus, Philadelphia Zoological Gardens, Catskill Game Farm, the Miller Bros. Circus, the Fort Worth Zoo, as well as international destinations such as Sydney and London. In 1960, after learning that the zoo's female pygmy hippos remained without male companionship after Billy's death, Liberian President William Tubman dispatched a search party to find a new male pygmy hippopotamus to ship to Washington. The pygmy hippopotamus, named Totota, arrived in Brooklyn, New York, on February 4, 1960, and traveled via station wagon to Washington the next day, where he would continue Billy's breeding legacy with the zoo's female pygmy hippos, two of which were Billy's daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "195007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195007", "title": "Centenarian", "text": "Centenarian\n\nA centenarian is a person who lives to (or beyond) the age of 100 years. Because life expectancies worldwide are below 100 years, the term is invariably associated with longevity. In 2012, the United Nations estimated that there were 316,600 living centenarians worldwide.\n\nAs life expectancy is increasing across the world, and the world population has also increased rapidly, the number of centenarians is expected to increase quickly in the future. According to the UK ONS, one-third of babies born in 2013 in the UK are expected to live to 100.\n\nA supercentenarian, sometimes hyphenated as super-centenarian, is a human (or individual species) who has lived to the age of 110 or more, something only achieved by about one in 1,000 centenarians.\n\nEven rarer is a person who has lived to age 115 – there are only 46 people in recorded history who have indisputably reached this age, of whom only Kane Tanaka, Maria Giuseppa Robucci and Shimoe Akiyama are living as of 2018.\n\nThere has only been one known case of a person of 120 years of age or older whose birth was independently verified by historical documents: Jeanne Calment, who lived to the age of 122 years, 164 days.\n\nJapan currently has the greatest number of known centenarians of any nation with 67,824 according to their 2017 census, along with the highest proportion of centenarians at 34.85 per 100,000 people. Japan started recording its centenarians in 1963. The number of Japanese centenarians in that year was 153, but surpassed the 10,000 mark in 1998; 20,000 in 2003; and 40,000 in 2009.\n\nAccording to a 1998 United Nations demographic survey, Japan is expected to have 272,000 centenarians by 2050; other sources suggest that the number could be closer to 1 million. The incidence of centenarians in Japan was one per 3,522 people in 2008.\n\nIn Japan, the number of centenarians is highly skewed towards females. Japan in fiscal year 2016 had 57,525 female centenarians, while males were 8,167, a ratio of 7:1. The increase of centenarians was even more skewed at 11.6:1.\n\nThe total number of living centenarians in the world remains uncertain. It was estimated by the Population Division of the United Nations as 23,000 in 1950, 110,000 in 1990, 150,000 in 1995, 209,000 in 2000, 324,000 in 2005 and 455,000 in 2009. However, these older estimates did not take into account the contemporary downward adjustments of national estimates made by several countries such as the United States; thus, in 2012, the UN estimated there to be only 316,600 centenarians worldwide. The following table gives estimated centenarian populations by country, including both the latest and the earliest known estimates, where available.\nIn many countries, people receive a gift or congratulations from state institutions on their 100th birthday.\n\nSwedish centenarians receive a telegram from the King and Queen of Sweden.\n\nCentenarians born in Italy receive a letter from the President Of The Republic Of Italy.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and the other Commonwealth realms, the British (and Commonwealth) monarch sends greetings (formerly as a telegram) on the 100th birthday and on every birthday beginning with the 105th. The tradition of Royal congratulations dates from 1908, when the Secretary for King Edward VII sent a congratulatory letter to Reverend Thomas Lord of Horncastle in a newspaper clipping, declaring, \"I am commanded by the King to congratulate you on the attainment of your hundredth year, after a most useful life.\" The practice was formalised from 1917, under the reign of King George V, who also sent congratulations on the attainment of a 60th Wedding anniversary. Queen Elizabeth II sends a greeting card style with the notation: \"I am so pleased to know that you are celebrating your one-hundredth birthday, I send my congratulations and best wishes to you on such a special occasion\", thereafter each few years the card is updated with a current picture of the Queen to ensure people do not receive the same card more than once. The Queen further sends her congratulations on one's 105th birthday and every year thereafter as well as on special wedding anniversaries; people must apply for greetings three weeks before the event, on the official British Monarch's website.\n\nCentenarians born in Ireland receive a €2,540 \"Centenarians' Bounty\" and a letter from the President of Ireland, even if they are resident abroad.\nIn the United States, centenarians traditionally receive a letter from the President, congratulating them for their longevity.\nJapanese centenarians receive a silver cup and a certificate from the Prime Minister of Japan upon the Respect for the Aged Day following their 100th birthday, honouring them for their longevity and prosperity in their lives.\n\nAn aspect of blessing in many cultures is to offer a wish that the recipient lives to 100 years old. Among Hindus, people who touch the feet of elders are often blessed with \"May you live a hundred years\". In Sweden, the traditional birthday song states, \"May he/she live for one hundred years.\" In Judaism, the term \"May you live to be 120 years old\" is a common blessing. In Poland, \"Sto lat\", a wish to live a hundred years, is a traditional form of praise and good wishes, and the song \"sto lat, sto lat\" is sung on the occasion of the birthday celebrations—arguably, it is the most popular song in Poland and among Poles around the globe.\n\nChinese emperors were hailed to live ten thousand years, while empresses were hailed to live a thousand years. In Italy, \"A hundred of these days!\" (\"cento di questi giorni\") is an augury for birthdays, to live to celebrate 100 more birthdays. Some Italians say \"Cent'anni!\", which means \"a hundred years\", in that they wish that they could all live happily for a hundred years. In Greece, wishing someone Happy Birthday ends with the expression \"να τα εκατοστήσεις\" (\"na ta ekatostisis\"), which can be loosely translated as \"may you make it one hundred birthdays\".\n\nWhile the number of centenarians per capita was much lower in ancient times than today, the data suggest that they were not unheard of.\nEstimates of life expectancy in antiquity are far lower than modern values mostly due to the far greater incidence of deaths in infancy or childhood. Those who lived past early childhood had a reasonable chance of living to a relatively old age. The assumption of what constitutes \"old age\", or being \"elderly\", at least, seems to have remained unchanged since antiquity, the line being generally drawn at either sixty or sixty-five years; Psalm 90:10 in the Hebrew Bible appears to give seventy to eighty years as the natural life expectancy of a person surviving into old age, \"The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength eighty\".\nA survey of the lifespans of male individuals with entries in the \"Oxford Classical Dictionary\" (i.e., a sample pre-selected to include those who lived long enough to attain historical notability) found a median lifespan of 72 years, and a range of 32 to 107 years, for 128 individuals born before 100 BC (though the same study found a median lifespan of 66 years for 100 individuals born after 100 BC but no later than 602 AD); by comparison, male individuals listed in \"Chambers Biographical Dictionary\" who died between 1900 and 1949 had a median lifespan of 71.5 years, with a range between 29 and 105 years.\nThe author of the 1994 study concluded that it was only in the second half of the 20th century that medical advances have extended the life expectancy of those who live into adulthood.\n\nReliable references to individuals in antiquity who lived past 100 years are quite rare, but they do exist.\nRegnal dates of Bronze Age monarchs are notoriously unreliable; the sixth dynasty Egyptian ruler Pepi II sometimes listed as having lived c. 2278 – c. 2184 BC, as he is said to have reigned for 94 years, but alternative readings cite a reign of just 64 years.\n\nDiogenes Laertius (c. AD 250) gives one of the earliest references regarding the plausible centenarian longevity given by a scientist, the astronomer Hipparchus of Nicea (c. 185 – c. 120 BC), who, according to the doxographer, assured that the philosopher Democritus of Abdera (c. 470/460 – c. 370/360 BC) lived 109 years. All other ancient accounts of Democritus appear to agree that the philosopher lived at least 90 years. The case of Democritus differs from those of, for example, Epimenides of Crete (7th and 6th centuries BC), who is said to have lived an implausible 154, 157 or 290 years, depending on the source.\nOther ancient Greek philosophers thought to have lived beyond the age of 90 include Xenophanes of Colophon (c. 570/565 – c. 475/470 BC), Pyrrho of Ellis (c. 360 - c. 270 BC), and Eratosthenes of Cirene (c. 285 – c. 190 BC). \nHosius of Córdoba, the man who convinced Constantine the Great to call the First Council of Nicaea, reportedly lived to age 102.\nA rare record of an ordinary person who lived to be a centenarian is the tombstome of Roman British legionary veteran Julius Valens, inscribed \"VIXIT ANNIS C\".\n\nIn the medieval period, Albert Azzo II, Margrave of Milan (d. 1097) is reported by Bernold of Constance as having lived past 100 years (\"iam maior centenario\").\n\nResearch in Italy suggests that healthy centenarians have high levels of both vitamin A and vitamin E and that this seems to be important in causing their extreme longevity. Other research contradicts this, however, and has found that this theory does not apply to centenarians from Sardinia, for whom other factors probably play a more important role. A preliminary study carried out in Poland showed that, in comparison with young healthy female adults, centenarians living in Upper Silesia had significantly higher red blood cell glutathione reductase and catalase activities, although serum levels of vitamin E were not significantly higher. Researchers in Denmark have also found that centenarians exhibit a high activity of glutathione reductase in red blood cells. In this study, the centenarians having the best cognitive and physical functional capacity tended to have the highest activity of this enzyme.\n\nOther research has found that people whose parents became centenarians have an increased number of naïve B cells. It is well known that the children of parents who have a long life are also likely to reach a healthy age, but it is not known why, although the inherited genes are probably important. A variation in the gene FOXO3A is known to have a positive effect on the life expectancy of humans, and is found much more often in people living to 100 and beyond - moreover, this appears to be true worldwide.\n\nMen and women who are 100 or older tend to have extroverted personalities, according to Thomas T. Perls, the director of the New England Centenarian Study at Boston University. Centenarians will often have many friends, strong ties to relatives and high self-esteem. In addition, some research suggests that the offspring of centenarians are more likely to age in better cardiovascular health than their peers.\n\nLymphoblastoid cell lines established from blood samples of centenarians have significantly higher activity of the DNA repair protein PARP (Poly ADP ribose polymerase) than cell lines from younger (20 to 70 years old) individuals. The lymphocytic cells of centenarians have characteristics typical of cells from young people, both in their capability of priming the mechanism of repair after HO sublethal oxidative DNA damage and in their PARP capacity. PARP activity measured in the permeabilized mononuclear leukocyte blood cells of thirteen mammalian species correlated with maximum lifespan of the species. These findings suggest that PARP mediated DNA repair activity contributes to the longevity of centenarians, consistent with the DNA damage theory of aging.\nMany experts attribute Japan's high life expectancy to the typical Japanese diet, which is particularly low in refined simple carbohydrates, and to hygienic practices. The number of centenarians in relation to the total population was, in September 2010, 114% higher in Shimane Prefecture than the national average. This ratio was also 92% higher in Okinawa Prefecture. In Okinawa, studies have shown five factors that have contributed to the large number of centenarians in that region:\n\nAlthough these factors vary from those mentioned in the previous study, the culture of Okinawa has proven these factors to be important in its large population of centenarians.\n\nA historical study from Korea found that male eunuchs in the royal court had a centenarian rate of over 3%, and that eunuchs lived on average 14 to 19 years longer than uncastrated men.\n\nThe number of Japanese centenarians was called into question in 2010, following a series of reports showing that hundreds of thousands of elderly people had gone \"missing\" in the country. The deaths of many centenarians had not been reported, casting doubt on the country's reputation for having a large population of centenarians.\n\nIn July 2010, Sogen Kato, a centenarian listed as the oldest living male in Tokyo, registered to be aged 111, was found to have died some 30 years before; his body was found mummified in his bed, resulting in a police investigation into centenarians listed over the age of 105. Soon after the discovery, the Japanese police found that at least 200 other Japanese centenarians were \"missing\", and began a nationwide search in early August 2010.\n\nBy measuring the biological age of various tissues from centenarians, researchers may be able to identify tissues that are protected from aging effects. According to a study of 30 different body parts from centenarians and younger controls, the cerebellum is the youngest brain region (and probably body part) in centenarians (about 15 years younger than expected ) according to an epigenetic biomarker of tissue age known as epigenetic clock.\n\nThese findings could explain why the cerebellum exhibits fewer neuropathological hallmarks of age related dementias compared to other brain regions. Further, the offspring of semi-supercentenarians (subjects who reached an age of 105–109 years) have a lower epigenetic age than age-matched controls (age difference=5.1 years in peripheral blood mononuclear cells) and centenarians are younger (8.6 years) than expected based on their chronological age.\n\nCentenarians are often the subject of news stories, which often focus on the fact that they are over 100 years old. Along with the typical birthday celebrations, these reports provide researchers and cultural historians with evidence as to how the rest of society views this elderly population. Some examples:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1248833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1248833", "title": "Computational topology", "text": "Computational topology\n\nAlgorithmic topology, or computational topology, is a subfield of topology with an overlap with areas of computer science, in particular, computational geometry and computational complexity theory.\n\nA primary concern of algorithmic topology, as its name suggests, is to develop efficient algorithms for solving problems that arise naturally in fields such as computational geometry, graphics, robotics, structural biology and chemistry, using methods from computable topology.\n\nA large family of algorithms concerning 3-manifolds revolve around normal surface theory, which is a phrase that encompasses several techniques to turn problems in 3-manifold theory into integer linear programming problems.\n\n\nAt present the JSJ decomposition has not been implemented algorithmically in computer software. Neither has the compression-body decomposition. There are some very popular and successful heuristics, such as SnapPea which has much success computing approximate hyperbolic structures on triangulated 3-manifolds. It is known that the full classification of 3-manifolds can be done algorithmically.\n\n\n\n\n\nComputation of homology groups of cell complexes reduces to bringing the boundary matrices into Smith normal form. Although this is a completely solved problem algorithmically, there are various technical obstacles to efficient computation for large complexes. There are two central obstacles. Firstly, the basic Smith form algorithm has cubic complexity in the size of the matrix involved since it uses row and column operations which makes it unsuitable for large cell complexes. Secondly, the intermediate matrices which result from the application of the Smith form algorithm get filled-in even if one starts and ends with sparse matrices.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56210626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56210626", "title": "Cowden family murders", "text": "Cowden family murders\n\nRichard Cowden (born October 9, 1946), his wife Belinda June Cowden (born May 24, 1952), and their children, David James Phillips (born June 30, 1969) and Melissa Dawn Cowden (born March 19, 1974) disappeared from their campground in the Siskiyou Mountains near Carberry Creek, Copper, Oregon, on September 1, 1974.\n\nSeven months later, in April 1975, their bodies were discovered approximately from their campsite. While law enforcement has suspected convicted-killer Dwain Lee Little in their murders, their case remains unsolved. The family's disappearance resulted in one of the largest search efforts in Oregon history, and their murders have been described as one of the state's most \"haunting and baffling\" mysteries.\n\nThe family's disappearance received nationwide attention at the time of its occurrence, and their murders have been profiled in numerous national media such as the \"New York Post\" and others. Their murders were also the subject of a chapter in the book \"But I Trusted You\" (2009) by crime writer Ann Rule.\n\nRichard Cowden (age 28), his wife Belinda (age 22), and their children David (age 5) and Melissa (age 5 months) were residents of White City, Oregon. Richard supported the family working as a logging truck driver.\n\nThe Cowden family made last-minute plans to camp near Carberry Creek in Copper, Oregon, over the Labor Day weekend, 1974. On August 30, the family, along with their pet Basset Hound, Droopy, arrived at a campground near the creek, an area they had frequented in the past. They parked their 1956 Ford pickup truck on Carberry Creek Road, a short distance from the campsite.\n\nOn September 1, 1974, Richard Cowden and his son, David, arrived at the Copper General Store at approximately 9 am, where Richard purchased milk. The two then departed the store on foot, heading toward their campsite. This was the last sighting of any of the Cowden family.\n\nLater that evening, Belinda's mother, who lived less than from the campground, was expecting the family to come over for dinner on their way home. When they failed to arrive, she went to their campsite near the creek, but found nobody there; the family's belongings, however, were all present: A plastic dishpan full of cold water lay on the ground, while the keys to the family's truck as well as Belinda's purse were in plain sight on a picnic table. A diaper bag as well as the camp stove, fully assembled, were also in plain view, and the carton of milk Richard had purchased earlier that morning sat on the table, half-full.\n\nUnable to locate her daughter, son-in-law, or grandchildren, Belinda's mother grew increasingly panicked when she noticed several items belonging to Richard lying on the ground: These included an expensive wristwatch as well as his wallet, which contained $21; she also found an opened pack of cigarettes, which she identified as being the brand Belinda was known to smoke. The family's truck, which was parked on the road, still contained their clothing, with only their bathing suits missing.\n\nBelinda's mother left the campground to notify police, after which the sheriff, troopers, and the District 3 Office of the Oregon State Police arrived at the scene. Lieutenant Mark Kezar who headed the case would later state that the investigation had been \"delayed for maybe a day\" because of the lack of indication that anything violent may have occurred at the campsite. A state trooper, Officer Erickson, recalled: \"That camp was spooky; even the milk was still on the table.\"\n\nThe following morning, the Cowdens' pet Basset Hound, Droopy, was found scratching at the front door of the Copper General Store.\n\nThe search investigation for the Cowden family was one of the largest in Oregon history, and included assistance from state and local police, numerous volunteers, Explorer Scouts, the United States Forest Service, and the Oregon National Guard. The U.S. Forest Service searched of roads and trails surrounding the campsite, and helicopters and planes were flown over the area equipped with infrared photography, which would detect recently overturned dirt. Despite massive search efforts, law enforcement was unable to find any evidence of a crime.\n\nThe Oregon State Police and Jackson County Police conducted interviews with over 150 individuals in their early investigation into the family's disappearance. A $2,000 reward () was offered in exchange for information regarding the family's disappearance. With the impending hunting season, Richard Cowden's sister wrote a letter to the \"Medford Mail Tribune\", pleading that hunters be alert to \"anything that could be connected to a man, woman, a five-year-old child, or a five-month-old baby. Even though we try not to let our hopes dwindle that they will be found alive, we ask that you will even check freshly turned piles of earth. We will truly appreciate any clue or help that some hunter may find.\"\n\nOver two-hundred citizens wrote to then-Oregon senator Mark Hatfield requesting that the Federal Bureau of Investigation begin looking at the case. The petition, however, was denied on the grounds that there was \"no evidence that the Cowdens had been kidnapped or taken across state lines.\" At the time, there were a total of eight reported missing women in Washington and Oregon, and law enforcement attempted to seek a connection between these disappearances and that of the Cowdens (the disappearances of these eight women, however, would later be linked to serial killer Ted Bundy).\n\nOn April 12, 1975, two gold prospectors from Forest Grove, Oregon, were hiking through the woods near Carberry Creek when they discovered the decomposing body of an adult male tied to a tree on a steep hillside. In a small cave nearby, the bodies of an adult female, a child, and an infant were discovered. Positive identification of the bodies as those of the Cowden family was made via dental records. The location where the bodies were discovered was approximately from the family's campsite.\n\nAutopsies revealed that Belinda and David had died as a result of .22 caliber gunshot wounds; five-month-old Melissa had died from severe head trauma. Law enforcement suspected Richard Cowden died at the site of where his body was found, but were unable to determine a cause of death. It was surmised by investigators that Belinda and their two children could have potentially been killed elsewhere and subsequently concealed in the cave. Law enforcement searched the surrounding area for a murder weapon, but were unable to recover one.\n\nInterviews were conducted with numerous persons who were at the campground on September 1. One family from Los Angeles had arrived at the campground at 5 pm that day. While walking in the park that evening, they witnessed two men and a woman parking nearby in a pickup truck; the father recalled: \"They acted like they were waiting for us to leave, and frankly, they made us nervous—so we moved on.\"\n\nBased on the location of Belinda and the children's bodies inside the cave, Lieutenant Kezar suspected that the person responsible was a local resident who knew the area and was aware of the cave location. After the family's remains were recovered, a resident of Grants Pass who had volunteered in the search told police that in September he had searched the cave where Belinda and the children's bodies were found, and that they were not there at that time. To confirm he was referring to the same cave, law enforcement had the man escort them to the cave he had searched; it was the same cave where the bodies had been discovered.\n\nLaw enforcement consider Dwain Lee Little of Ruch, 25 at the time of the family's disappearance, a suspect in their murders. Little had been paroled from the Oregon State Penitentiary in Salem on May 24, 1974, three months prior to the Cowdens' disappearances. At 16, in 1964, he had raped and murdered teenager Orla Fay Fipps. State police were able to determine that Little had been in Copper over the Labor Day weekend at the approximate time the Cowden family disappeared.\n\nLittle's girlfriend told law enforcement that she had seen him with a .22 caliber gun during Christmastime 1974; on January 12, 1975, his parole was revoked after she informed police of his possession of a firearm. Little was paroled again on April 26, 1977. On June 2, 1980, Little picked up a pregnant 23-year-old named Margie Hunter, whose car had broken down near Portland, Oregon, and sexually assaulted and beat her. Hunter and her unborn child survived, and Little was charged and convicted of attempted homicide and sentenced to three consecutive life sentences.\n\nPolice later suspected that the two men and woman in a truck reported by the Los Angeles family at the campground were in fact Little and his parents, as their truck matched the description provided by the family. Little and his parents denied any knowledge of the Cowdens' disappearances; however, a miner who owned a cabin nearby claimed that Little and his parents had stopped by on Monday, September 2, 1974, and signed a guestbook he kept for visitors.\n\nRusty Kelly, an inmate who at one time shared a cell with Little, would later claim that Little confessed to the Cowdens' murders. Despite the \"voluminous\" circumstantial evidence, Little has never been charged with the murders of the Cowden family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28359890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28359890", "title": "Dragan Malešević Tapi", "text": "Dragan Malešević Tapi\n\nDragan Malešević Tapi (; 22 January 1949 – 29 October 2002) was a Serbian painter. Although by vocation an economist, he is generally considered one of the leading painters of Serbian hyperrealism style.\n\nDragan Malešević was born in Belgrade in 1949. In his early youth, he started painting as an autodidact. His painting career began when he was seven years old, in the lobby of the building located at 4 Hilandarska street in Belgrade. He copied the comic \"Three Imps\", which his father, a journalist, used to bring him from the \"Politika\" press, before the comic would appear in newsstands. Tickets for his first independent \"exhibition\", which took place at the entrance of his house building, cost five dinars for children and ten dinars for adults.\n\nIn 1985 his works, together with the works of Mića Popović and Olja Ivanjicki, were shown in public, at a group exhibition in Rovinj, where he continued to exhibit his works for the next five years.\n\nThe crucial moment for his painting career was the sale of some of his first paintings in the Prijeko Gallery in Dubrovnik in 1987. Tapi's first painting was sold to a German tourist for DM 8,000, although the artist at first asked 50,000 dollars for it. From that point forward, he aligned his life with his talent. After only two years, the magazine \"Art News\" would include him among the seven best hyperrealists in the world.\n\nIn the 80s and 90s his paintings engrossed great media attention, and that was followed by numerous independent and group exhibitions across his homeland and abroad: United States, Cuba, Belgium, France, United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland, Greece, Cyprus, Bulgaria, Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Russia, China, Japan… Tapi's paintings are in numerous private collections, like the ones of former president of the United States, George H.W. Bush and state secretary Henry Kissinger; departed Prime minister of Japan Kakuei Tanaka, and many other public figures across the world, but also in public collections, including the White House collection.\nIn 2000 the U.S. state of Georgia proclaimed Tapi an honorary citizen of Georgia.\nUnfortunately for the world of painting and admirers of fine arts, the sudden and early death of the artist in 2002 prevented him from exhibiting already arranged exhibitions in museums and galleries such as the Peggy Guggenheim Museum.\n\nModern art critics consider Dragan Malešević as a representative leader of hyperrealism and magical realism. Some art critics evaluate his painting as eclectic and illusionistic.\n\nHe painted oils on canvas and wood, and his use of techniques such as underpainting was similar to that of the old masters, especially Jan van Eyck and Salvador Dalí. As he painted only visible things, very precisely, he preserved the spirit of optimism and the joy of living. For some critics this is the specificity of Tapi's style.\n\nHowever, his work embraces a much wider spectrum. Unlike his paintings, some of these artworks are yet unknown to the wider public, but it is important to note that he was engaged in sculpture in last years of his artistic production. Tapi's paintings dominate with scenes from everyday life, depicted with almost photographic precision. He also painted landscapes, genre compositions, still life, female nudes… Some of his paintings have historical, religious or social motifs, with an admixture of the surreal.\n\nCertainly, Tapi is one of the most famous and popular Serbian painters, with his paintings reaching staggering several hundreds of thousands of USD and his reproductions being sold worldwide.\nDuring his life he painted around a hundred paintings, including the most popular; Field of Happiness, Swans, Venezuela, 18th Hole, Garage, Spirit of Tesla, Anna Bach, A Turkey Fight, Rhodesia, Joy of Bankruptcy (on the cover of the compilation \"Ima neka tajna veza\" for the band Bijelo Dugme), Warm-Cold (on the cover of the compilation \"Best of Oliver Mandić\"), Žika's band (on the Goran Bregović CD cover \"Music for movies\"), Bliher, etc.\n\nIn the Serbian public sphere, in parallel with his art, Tapi carefully built his name as one of the most influential Freemasons in the country. In 1990, together with like-minded people, Tapi revitalized the Yugoslavian Grand Lodge, becoming one of the greatest public propagators of Freemasonry. When he died, he was a 33rd degree Mason, the acting Sovereign Grand Commander of the Supreme Council of Serbia, 33º Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry. After his sudden death, the Grand National Lodge of Serbia formed a new lodge, named, in his honor, \"Dragan Malešević Tapi\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45265426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45265426", "title": "Dual-phase evolution", "text": "Dual-phase evolution\n\nDual phase evolution (DPE) is a process that drives self-organization within complex adaptive systems. It arises in response to phase changes within the network of connections formed by a system's components. DPE occurs in a wide range of physical, biological and social systems. Its applications to technology include methods for manufacturing novel materials and algorithms to solve complex problems in computation.\n\nDual phase evolution (DPE) is a process that promotes the emergence of large-scale order in complex systems. It occurs when a system repeatedly switches between various kinds of phases, and in each phase different processes act on the components or connections in the system. DPE arises because of a property of graphs and networks: the connectivity avalanche that occurs in graphs as the number of edges increases.\n\nSocial networks provide a familiar example. In a social network the nodes of the network are people and the network connections (edges) are relationships or interactions between people. For any individual, social activity alternates between a \"local phase\", in which they interact only with people they already know, and a \"global phase\" in which they can interact with a wide pool of people not previously known to them. Historically, these phases have been forced on people by constraints of time and space. People spend most of their time in a local phase and interact only with those immediately around them (family, neighbors, colleagues). However, intermittent activities such as parties, holidays, and conferences involve a shift into a global phase where they can interact with different people they do not know. Different processes dominate each phase. Essentially, people make new social links when in the global phase, and refine or break them (by ceasing contact) while in the local phase.\n\nThe following features are necessary for DPE to occur.\n\nDPE occurs where a system has an underlying network. That is, the system's components form a set of nodes and there are connections (edges) that join them. For example, a family tree is a network in which the nodes are people (with names) and the edges are relationships such as \"mother of\" or \"married to\". The nodes in the network can take physical form, such as atoms held together by atomic forces, or they may be dynamic states or conditions, such as positions on a chess board with moves by the players defining the edges.\n\nIn mathematical terms (graph theory), a graph formula_1 is a set of nodes formula_2 and a set of edges formula_3. Each edge formula_4 provides a link between a pair of nodes formula_5 and formula_6. A network is a graph in which values are assigned to the nodes and/or edges.\n\nGraphs and networks have two phases: disconnected (fragmented) and connected. In the connected phase every node is connected by an edge to at least one other node and for any pair of nodes, there is at least one path (sequence of edges) joining them.\n\nThe Erdős–Rényi model shows that random graphs undergo a connectivity avalanche as the density of edges in a graph increases. This avalanche amounts to a sudden phase change in the size of the largest connected subgraph. In effect, a graph has two phases: connected (most nodes are linked by pathways of interaction) and fragmented (nodes are either isolated or form small subgraphs). These are often referred to as global and local phases, respectively.\n\nAn essential feature of DPE is that the system undergoes repeated shifts between the two phases. In many cases, one phase is the system’s normal state and it remains in that phase until shocked into the alternate phase by a disturbance, which may be external in origin.\n\nIn each of the two phases, the network is dominated by different processes. In a local phase, the nodes behave as individuals; in the global phase, nodes are affected by interactions with other nodes. Most commonly the two processes at work can be interpreted as \"variation\" and \"selection\". \"Variation\" refers to new features, which typically appear in one of the two phases. These features may be new nodes, new edges, or new properties of the nodes or edges. \"Selection\" here refers to ways in which the features are modified, refined, selected or removed. A simple example would be new edges being added at random in the global phase and edges being selectively removed in the local phase.\n\nThe effects of changes in one phase carry over into the other phase. This means that the processes acting in each phase can modify or refine patterns formed in the other phase. For instance, in a social network, if a person makes new acquaintances during a global phase, then some of these new social connections might survive into the local phase to become long-term friends. In this way, DPE can create effects that may be impossible if both processes act at the same time.\n\nDPE has been found to occur in many natural and artificial systems.\n\nDPE is capable of producing social networks with known topologies, notably small-world networks and scale-free networks.\nSmall world networks, which are common in traditional societies, are a natural consequence of alternating \"local\" and \"global\" phases: new, long-distance links are formed during the global phase and existing links are reinforced (or removed) during the local phase. The advent of social media has decreased the constraining influence that space used to impose on social communication, so time has become the chief constraint for many people.\n\nThe alternation between local and global phases in social networks occurs in many different guises. Some transitions between phases occur regularly, such as the daily cycle of people moving between home and work. This alternation can influence shifts in public opinion. In the absence of social interaction, the uptake of an opinion promoted by media is a Markov process. The effect of social interaction under DPE is to retard the initial uptake until the number converted reaches a critical point, after which uptake accelerates rapidly.\n\nDPE models of socio-economics interpret the economy as networks of economic agents. Several studies have examined the way socioeconomics evolve when DPE acts on different parts of the network. One model interpreted society as a network of occupations with inhabitants matched to those occupations. In this model social dynamics become a process of DPE within the network, with regular transitions between a development phase, during which the network settles into an equilibrium state, and a mutating phase, during which the network is transformed in random ways by the creation of new occupations.\n\nAnother model interpreted growth and decline in socioeconomic activity as a conflict between cooperators and defectors. The cooperators form networks that lead to prosperity. However, the network is unstable and invasions by defectors intermittently fragment the network, reducing prosperity, until invasions of new cooperators rebuild networks again. Thus prosperity is seen as a dual phase process of alternating highly prosperous, connected phases and unprosperous, fragmented phases.\n\nIn a forest, the landscape can be regarded as a network of sites where trees might grow. Some sites are occupied by living trees; others sites are empty. In the local phase, sites free of trees are few and they are surrounded by forest, so the network of free sites is fragmented. In competition for these free sites, local seed sources have a massive advantage, and seeds from distant trees are virtually excluded. Major fires (or other disturbances) clear away large tracts of land, so the network of free sites becomes connected and the landscape enters a global phase. In the global phase, competition for free sites is reduced, so the main competitive advantage is adaptation to the environment.\n\nMost of the time a forest is in the local phase, as described above. The net effect is that established tree populations largely exclude invading species. Even if a few isolated trees do find free ground, their population is prevented from expanding by established populations, even if the invaders are better adapted to the local environment. A fire in such conditions leads to an explosion of the invading population, and possibly to a sudden change in the character of the entire forest.\n\nThis dual phase process in the landscape explains the consist appearance of pollen zones in the postglacial forest history of North America, Europe, as well as the suppression of widespread taxa, such as beech and hemlock, followed by huge population explosions. Similar patterns, pollen zones truncated by fire-induced boundaries, have been recorded in most parts of the world\n\nDual phase evolution is a family of search algorithms that exploit phase changes in the search space to mediate between local and global search. In this way they control the way algorithms explore a search space, so they can be regarded as a family of metaheuristic methods.\n\nProblems such as optimization can typically be interpreted as finding the tallest peak (optimum) within a search space of possibilities. The task can be approached in two ways: \"local search\" (e.g. hill climbing) involves tracing a path from point to point, and always moving \"uphill\". \"Global search\" involves sampling at wide-ranging points in the search space to find high points.\n\nMany search algorithms involve a transition between phases of global search and local search. A simple example is the Great Deluge algorithm in which the searcher can move at random across the landscape, but cannot enter low-lying areas that are flooded. At first the searcher can wander freely, but rising water levels eventually confine the search to a local area. Many other nature-inspired algorithms adopt similar approaches. Simulated annealing achieves a transition between phases via its cooling schedule. The cellular genetic algorithm places solutions in a pseudo landscape in which they breed only with local neighbours. Intermittent disasters clear patches, flipping the system into a global phase until gaps are filled again.\n\nSome variations on the memetic algorithm involve alternating between selection at different levels. These are related to the Baldwin effect, which arises when processes acting on \"phenotypes\" (e.g. learning) influence selection at the level of \"genotypes\". In this sense, the Baldwin effect alternates between global search (genotypes) and local search (phenotypes).\n\nDual phase evolution is related to the well-known phenomenon of \"self-organized criticality\" (SOC). Both concern processes in which critical phase changes promote adaptation and organization within a system. However, SOC differs from DPE in several fundamental ways. Under SOC, a system's natural condition is to be in a critical state; in DPE a system's natural condition is a non-critical state. In SOC the size of disturbances follows a power law; in DPE disturbances are not necessarily distributed the same way. In SOC a system is not necessarily subject to other processes; in DPE different processes (e.g. selection and variation) operate in the two phases.\n"}
{"id": "23762087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23762087", "title": "Euthanasia in Canada", "text": "Euthanasia in Canada\n\nEuthanasia in Canada in its legal voluntary form is called medically assisted dying and became legal along with assisted suicide as of June 2016 to end the suffering of terminally ill adults.\n\nBill C-14, passed by the Parliament of Canada in June 2016, amended the Canadian Criminal Code so as to legalise both physician-administered euthanasia (PAE) and physician-assisted suicide (PAS), and to govern access to both procedures in Canada. Neither euthanasia nor assisted suicide are available to minors, nor on the grounds of mental illness, long-term disability, or any curable condition. To prevent suicide tourism, it is available only to residents eligible for Canadian healthcare coverage. Advance directives are not allowed in Canada for voluntary euthanasia and patients cannot arrange to consent \"in advance\" to dying later at the hands of a caregiver (such as in cases of dementia or Alzheimer's disease where patients may want to die after they reach an advanced state of mental decline).\n\nCanada's assisted dying law includes legal safeguards aimed at preventing abuse and ensuring informed consent. Neither the legal witnesses, nor the physicians involved, can have any legal or financial interest in the outcomes of the patient. Consent must be repeatedly expressed, not implied, including in the moment right before death. Consent can be revoked at any time, in any manner. There are no consequences for backing out and there are no limits to how often it can be requested.\n\nTo receive a medically assisted death, patients experiencing intolerable suffering must sign a written request expressing their wish to end their life in front of two independent witnesses who can both confirm it was done willingly free of coercion, \"10 clear days\" before the date of death. Next, two physicians and/or nurse practitioners must independently confirm their written agreement that the patient has an \"incurable\" grievous and irremediable medical condition that is in an \"advanced state of irreversible decline\", that the patient's \"natural death is reasonably foreseeable\", and that the patient is capable and willing of receiving a medically assisted death. If they are eligible, patients must be informed about their palliative care options to relieve end-of-life suffering before they can die.\n\nAssisted suicide was previously prohibited under the criminal code as a form of culpable homicide. The prohibition was overturned in a February 2015 decision by the Supreme Court in \"Carter v Canada (Attorney General)\", which ruled that adults with grievous and irremediable medical conditions are entitled to physician-assisted suicide. The Court delayed its suspension of invalidity for a period of 12 months, to allow Parliament the opportunity to amend its laws, if it so chose. In January 2016, the Court granted an additional four-month extension to the suspension to allow for further time. As an interim measure, it ruled that provincial courts can now begin approving applications for euthanasia pursuant to the criteria in the \"Carter\" decision. On 6 June 2016, the suspension of invalidity expired and the law was struck down. On 17 June 2016, a bill to legalize and regulate assisted dying passed in Canada's Parliament.\n\nThe current law's requirement that a natural death must be \"reasonably foreseeable\" or \"incurable\", has been controversial for how it vastly limits the original Supreme Court of Canada ruling mandating assisted dying be made available to all adults with \"grievous and irremediable\" medical conditions. The British Columbia Civil Liberties Association (BCCLA) is challenging the constitutionality of the current law because it excludes people with long-term disabilities, and those with \"curable\" medical conditions whose only treatment options people may find unacceptable. The BCCLA argues these medical conditions should qualify under the court's definition of \"grievous and irremediable\".\n\nOn 17 June 2016, Bill C-14 to legalize and regulate assisted dying passed in Canada's Parliament. This section outlines the details of this law. Strict rules govern access to assisted suicide. If they are not met, anyone who aids another person in killing themselves is guilty of a crime. Canada's law on assisted dying does not allow advance directives, nor does it allow it for minors or people who are suffering from a mental illness.\n\nUnder Canadian law, a person may access medical assistance in dying \"only\" if they meet \"all\" of the following criteria:\n\n(a) they are eligible — or, but for any applicable minimum period of residence or waiting period, would be eligible — for health services funded by a government in Canada;\n\n(b) they are at least 18 years of age and capable of making decisions with respect to their health;\n\n(c) they have \"a grievous and irremediable medical condition\";\n\n(d) they have made a voluntary request for medical assistance in dying that, in particular, was not made as a result of external pressure; and\n\n(e) they give informed consent to receive medical assistance in dying after having been informed of the means that are available to relieve their suffering, including palliative care.\n\nBefore a request for an assisted death can be fulfilled, at least two physicians and/or nurse practitioners must confirm independently that the patient indeed has a \"grievous and irremediable medical condition.\" The two medical practitioners or nurse practitioners who make this determination must be independent from one another (i.e., one cannot work under the authority of the other), and have no legal or financial interest in the outcome of the patient.\n\nThe law states that for a patient to have a \"grievous and irremediable medical condition\" eligible for assisted dying, they must meet all of the following criteria:\n\n(a) they have a serious and incurable illness, disease or disability;\n\n(b) they are in an advanced state of irreversible decline in capability;\n\n(c) that illness, disease or disability or that state of decline causes them enduring physical or psychological suffering that is intolerable to them and that cannot be relieved under conditions that they consider acceptable; and\n\n(d) their natural death has become reasonably foreseeable, taking into account all of their medical circumstances, without a prognosis necessarily having been made as to the specific length of time that they have remaining.\n\nWhen drafting the law in 2016, the last clause requiring death to be \"reasonably foreseeable\" has been controversial for how it narrows the scope of the original Supreme Court of Canada ruling as it excludes most mental illnesses or long term disabilities, vastly limiting who may have access to the procedure.\n\nCanada's law has what it calls \"robust safeguards to prevent errors and abuse in the provision of medical assistance in dying.\" The drafters of the law argue they protect \"vulnerable persons... from being induced, in moments of weakness, to end their lives.\"\n\nAny person who is at least 18 years of age and who understands the nature of the request can act as an independent witness, unless they:\n\n(a) know or believe that they are a beneficiary under the will of the person making the request, or a recipient, in any other way, of a financial or other material benefit resulting from that person’s death; (b) are an owner or operator of any health care facility at which the person making the request is being treated or any facility in which that person resides; (c) are directly involved in providing health care services to the person making the request; or (d) directly provide personal care to the person making the request.\n\nBoth medical practitioners and/or nurse practitioners involved must independently confirm via a written opinion both their agreement that a person has \"a grievous and irremediable medical condition\", and their agreement that the patient is capable and willing of receiving a medically assisted death. The medical or nurse practitioners making this determination must be independent (i.e., one cannot work under the authority of the other), and have no legal or financial interest in the outcome of the patient. A medical practitioner or nurse practitioner who helps in providing medical assistance in dying can be considered independent if they:\n\n(a) are not a mentor to the other practitioner or responsible for supervising their work;\n\n(b) do not know or believe that they are a beneficiary under the will of the person making the request, or a recipient, in any other way, of a financial or other material benefit resulting from that person’s death, other than standard compensation for their services relating to the request; or\n\n(c) do not know or believe that they are connected to the other practitioner or to the person making the request in any other way that would affect their objectivity.\n\nDue to the \"irrevocable nature of ending a life\", to receive medical assistance in dying, patients must sign and date a written statement confirming their request to die in the presence of two independent witnesses, 10 clear days before the day they will die. If death or a loss of a capacity to provide consent is imminent, both medical practitioners or nurse practitioners can agree to waive or shorten the 10 day waiting period.\n\nIf the person requesting medical assistance in dying is unable to sign and date the request, another person—who is at least 18 years of age, who understands the nature of the request and who does not know or believe that they are a beneficiary under the will of the person making the request, or a recipient, in any other way, of a financial or other material benefit resulting from that person's death—may do so in the person's presence, on the person's behalf and under the person's express direction.\n\nBefore they can continue with receiving assisted dying, patients are required to be informed about what means are available to relieve their suffering, including palliative care options, to make sure that patients don't rush into the decision based on misconceptions or misinformation about what their future life may bring.\n\nA patient who chooses to pursue medical assistance in dying can revoke their consent at any time, in any manner, without fear of consequence. In addition to this, the law also requires the patient to be informed repeatedly and clearly that at any time they have a right to refuse medical assistance in dying.\n\nPatients must again give express consent of their wish to receive medical assistance in dying immediately before they receive it, and they must also be given an opportunity to withdraw the request immediately before the procedure is performed.\n\nIf a patient has difficulty communicating, before the procedure can be performed physicians must ensure that all necessary measures have been taken to ensure a reliable method of communicating with the patient exists, so that patients at all times can understand the information provided to them, and can adequately communicate any decision they make back.\n\nBecause of the law's strict insistence on express consent being present at all times, Canada's law does not allow advanced directives, or for people to consent in advance to receiving a medically assisted death at a later time, as those suffering from Alzheimers or dementia may want to arrange.\n\nThe actual text of the law states that before a medical practitioner or nurse practitioner provides a person with medical assistance in dying, the medical practitioner or nurse practitioner must\n\n(a) be of the opinion that the person meets all of the eligibility criteria\n\n(b) ensure that the person’s request for medical assistance in dying was:\n\n\n(c) be satisfied that the request was signed and dated by the person—or by another person under subsection (4)—before two independent witnesses who then also signed and dated the request;\n\n(d) ensure that the person has been informed that they may, at any time and in any manner, withdraw their request;\n\n(e) ensure that another medical practitioner or nurse practitioner has provided a written opinion confirming that the person meets all of the criteria set out in subsection (1);\n\n(f) be satisfied that they and the other medical practitioner or nurse practitioner referred to in paragraph (e) are independent;\n\n(g) ensure that there are at least 10 clear days between the day on which the request was signed by or on behalf of the person and the day on which the medical assistance in dying is provided or—if they and the other medical practitioner or nurse practitioner referred to in paragraph\n\n(e) are both of the opinion that the person's death, or the loss of their capacity to provide informed consent, is imminent—any shorter period that the first medical practitioner or nurse practitioner considers appropriate in the circumstances;\n\n(h) immediately before providing the medical assistance in dying, give the person an opportunity to withdraw their request and ensure that the person gives express consent to receive medical assistance in dying; and\n\n(i) if the person has difficulty communicating, take all necessary measures to provide a reliable means by which the person may understand the information that is provided to them and communicate their decision.\n\nWithin the broader assisted suicide debate, Canada's laws are lenient in some areas but stricter in others. The law is lenient given that fewer than a dozen countries permit voluntary euthanasia in any form. Canadian lawmakers said they closely studied the experience of other countries when deciding which aspects of voluntary euthanasia to allow, and which parts not to allow.\n\nCanada's law is consistent with many other nations that allow voluntary forms of euthanasia in requiring at least two physicians to overlook the details of a diagnosis. It follows Oregon's law in requiring two witnesses also.\n\nUniquely, Canada's delegates the power of deciding medical eligibility for an assisted death to both physicians \"and\" nurse practitioners, a flexibility added in response to the concerns of rural areas who often struggle with having a shortage of doctors.\n\nCanada's law is more restrictive than that in Belgium or the Netherlands in that it does not permit minors or late aged teenagers access to assisted dying. Canada also does not allow assisted suicide on the grounds of mental illness, a practice allowed in the Netherlands, Belgium, and Switzerland.\n\nAdvance directives cannot be used in Canada to give consent for voluntary euthanasia, a practice that Belgium allows.\n\nAdditionally, Canada's law requires the presence of a terminal illness, while the law in Netherlands and Belgium allows the euthanasia of people suffering from a long term disability.\n\nHowever, in contrast to laws in states like Oregon that only allows assisted suicide if there is a prognosis of death within 6 months, Canada's law keeps vague exactly how soon a death must be \"reasonably foreseeable\" in order to qualify for assisted dying, keeping this matter of judgement up to individual medical practitioners.\n\nAs well as \"assisted suicide\" in the strict sense of the term—in which patients administer the medicine that kills them directly by themselves—Canada's law is more permissive in this area as it allows practitioners to euthanise patients who want to die but who are physically unable to kill themselves.\n\nCanada also allows its mandatory 10 day waiting period requirements to be waived for those \"whose death or loss of capacity to consent is imminent\", provided this is agreed upon by both physicians or nurse practitioners. This is more flexible than euthanasia laws seen in places such as the United States, where waiting periods are firmly fixed into law as legal requirements that must be met.\n\nThe Panel of judges hold the value of individual autonomy over one's body. The right of individual autonomy is reflected in the decisions that have been taken by the Supreme Court of Canada since 1982, when the \"Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" was established in Canada’s Constitution. \n\nIndividual cases have such as the \"Ciarlariello v. Schacter\" and \"Rodriguez v. British Columbia\" taken these issues decision making factors in healthcare. In \"Ciarlariello\", the Courts declared patients right to refuse treatment and to withdraw from treatment even after it has begun. Justice Cory wrote:\n\nevery patient has a right to bodily integrity. This encompasses the right to determine what medical procedures will be accepted and the extent to which they will be accepted. Everyone has the right to decide what is to be done to one’s own body. This includes the right to be free from medical treatment to which the individual does not consent. This concept of individual autonomy is fundamental to the common law.\n\nIn \"Rodriguez\", Justice Sopinka refers autonomy over ones body and the \"control over one's physical and psychological integrity\". Sopinka argued that autonomy is about free choice, and that patients should not be subjected to treatment unless they have complete consent. She added that consent must come from a cognitively competent individual and must be informed about his or her decision. \nAutonomy is a central value in requesting the assistance in dying. The argument for assisted death is the belief that individuals should be able to live their lives accordingly without the law making those decisions for them because the state should only protect the lives of citizens with respect to their own choices. The idea of autonomy is based on the idea that deciding how we die belongs to our own choices and thus the decision of requesting medical aid to die should be based on personal choice.\n\nThe main argument that interferes between a legal standpoint and a moral standpoint is the fear that assistance with suicide will be administrated to less fully competent patients. Therefore, decriminalizing assisted suicide might lead to involuntary euthanasia causing a slippery slope. The slippery slope argument against assisted death takes on the concept that assisted death on incompetent patients is unavoidable. The argument against assisted death points towards safeguards in decriminalizing assisted suicide.\n\nSuicide was decriminalized in Canada in 1972. Physician-assisted suicide has been legal in the Province of Quebec, where it is referred to as \"medical aid in dying\", since June 5, 2014. It became legal in the entire country in June 2016 after the criminal prohibition was struck down and subsequently new legislation was passed in Parliament pursuant to a 2015 Supreme Court of Canada decision.\nBefore it had been amended in 2016, the Criminal Code of Canada stated in section 241(b) that \"Every one who ... (b) aids or abets a person to commit suicide, whether suicide ensues or not, is guilty of an indictable offence and is liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding fourteen years\"\n\nOn June 15, 2012, in a case filed by Gloria Taylor, the Supreme Court of British Columbia ruled that provisions in the Criminal Code prohibiting doctor-assisted suicide were unconstitutional as they apply to severely disabled patients capable of giving consent. The court ruled that the Criminal Code provisions \"infringe s. 7 [and s. 15 ] of the Charter, and are of no force and effect to the extent that they prohibit physician-assisted suicide by a medical practitioner in the context of a physician-patient relationship\". Moreover, the court found that the relevant sections were legislatively overbroad, had a disproportionate effect on people with disabilities, and were \"grossly disproportionate to the objectives it is meant to accomplish.\"\n\nThe landmark decision on this topic was provided by the Supreme Court of Canada on February 6, 2015 in the Carter v Canada (AG) case. The unanimous judgment overturned the legal ban on doctor-assisted suicide. However, the court provided the federal government with 12 months to enact the necessary legislation (such as revising the Criminal Code) to make doctor-assisted suicide legal across the country. The federal government subsequently requested a six-month extension for implementation; the arguments for this request were scheduled to be heard by the federal Supreme Court on January 11, 2016.\n\nThe province of Quebec had legalized doctor assisted suicide in June 2014 as well as in late 2015 the province's Court of Appeal confirmed that their law did not contravene the country's Criminal Code because of the Carter v Canada (AG) ruling of the Supreme Court of Canada.\n\nA 1993 decision made by the Supreme Court of Canada that established a patient’s right to withdraw from a procedure that has already begun. Ms. Ciarlariello underwent two angiograms after experiencing bleeding in her brain. During the second procedure, she began to hyperventilate and asked the physician to stop the procedure. Nonetheless, the procedure was completed, and Ciarlariello suffered a severe reaction that left her quadriplegic. [1]\n\nUntil recently, the most prominent case opposing this law was that of Sue Rodriguez, who after being diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) requested that the Canadian Supreme Court allow someone to aid her in ending her life. Her request appealed to the principle of autonomy and respect for every person, which states that \"everyone has the right to self-determination subject only to an unjust infringement on the equal and competing rights of others\".\n\nHer main argument for her assisted suicide, however, appealed to the principle of equality and justice which states that \"everyone should be treated equally, and deviations from equality of treatment are permissible only to achieve equity and justice\". The application of this principle to the case is as follows. Ms. Rodriguez's ALS would eventually lead her to lose her voluntary motor control. Therefore, this loss of motor control is a \"handicap of ALS-sufferers\".\n\nBecause suicide is not a crime, it was argued that Ms. Rodriguez was being discriminated against in her option of deciding to commit suicide with the help of another person due to her disability, without the law \"providing a compensatory and equitable relief\". Though in 1992, the Court refused her request, two years later, Sue Rodriguez, with the help of an unknown doctor ended her life despite the Court's decision. Due to her death, the Canadian medical profession issued a statement through Dr. Tom Perry and Dr. Peter Graff, who both said that they had assisted some of their patients in speeding up their death.\n\nThe Rodriguez case poses questions of the slippery slope argument. Sue Rodriguez argued that the Canadian government was violating her right to life, liberty and security of the person under section 7 of the Charter by robbing her of the freedom to end her life without assistance. Justice Sopinka stated that: \"all persons who of the reason of disability are unable to commit suicide have a right to be free from government interference in procuring the assistance of others to take their life\". However justice McLachlin argued that: \"our task was the much more modest one of determining whether, given the legislative scheme regulating suicide which Parliament has put in place, the denial to Sue Rodriguez of the ability to end her life is arbitrary and hence amounts to a limit on her security of the person which does not comport with the principles of fundamental justice\". Chief Justice Lamer rejected this argument as a legal matter and stated: \"While I share a deep concern over the subtle and overt pressures that may be brought to bear on such persons if assisted suicide is decriminalized, even in limited circumstances, I do not legalization that deprives a disadvantaged group of the right to equality can be justified solely on such speculative grounds, no matter how well intentioned ... we simply do not and cannot know the range of implications that allowing some form of assisted suicide will have for persons with physical disabilities. What we do know and cannot ignore is the anguish of those in the position of Ms Rodriguez\". The Chief Justice, however did not recognize that Rodriguez was incapable of committing suicide and thus the court refused her request because the legal sanction of euthanasia did not constitute an active effort to restrict liberty and therefore, did not violate section 7 in that way.\n\nRobert Latimer is a Canadian canola and wheat farmer, who was convicted of second-degree murder in the death of his daughter Tracy (November 23, 1980 – October 24, 1993). This case sparked a national controversy on the definition and ethics of euthanasia as well as the rights of people with disabilities, and two Supreme Court decisions, R v Latimer (1997), on section 10 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and later R v Latimer (2001), on cruel and unusual punishments under section 12 of the Charter.\n\nBefore the February 2015 Supreme Court of Canada decision, the Canadian Medical Association had maintained that it is not up to them to decide on the issue of euthanasia, but the responsibility of society. Though in 1995, the Canadian Senate Committee decided that euthanasia should remain illegal, they recommended that a new category of crime be specifically created for those charged with assisting in suicide, called \"compassionate suicide\".\n\nBefore doctor-assisted suicide was made legal in Quebec in June 2014, the Quebec College of Physicians had declared that it was prepared to cross the line on the debate over euthanasia and proposed that it be included as part of the appropriate care in certain particular circumstances.\n\nOn June 5, 2014 Quebec became the first Canadian province to pass right-to-die legislation. The federal government challenged this measure but in December 2015, the Quebec Court of Appeal confirmed that the \"medical aid in dying\" law would stand in light of the Supreme Court decision in Carter v Canada (AG).\n\nIn June 2005, Francine Lalonde introduced in Parliament a private Bill C-407 that would have legalized assisted suicide in Canada, but the January 2006 election ended this bill. Lalonde was re-elected and reintroduced her bill to legalize assisted suicide, which the 2008 election ended.\n\nOn May 13, 2009, Lalonde introduced another bill—Bill C-384—of the same nature as her other two attempts. The Bill was debated in the House of Commons, but died on April 21, 2010 in second reading House of Commons when the vote to advance Bill C-384 to the Justice and Human Rights committee failed 59 to 226. Nearly every member of the Bloc Québécois supported the legislation along with one independent and a handful of Liberal, New Democratic Party (NDP) and Conservative MPs. Every other MP either abstained or voted against the bill.\n\nConservative Minister of Democratic Reform Steven Fletcher, who is Canada's first quadriplegic Member of Parliament and Cabinet Minister, made a public point of order after the vote to have an abstention recorded for the bill inviting for the discussion.\n\nIn December 2014, Conservative Senator Nancy Ruth and Liberal Senator Zlatan Campbell announced they will introduce a bill to legalize assisted suicide to the Canadian Senate. If the bill passes in the Senate, the bill would move to the House of Commons to be debated there before Parliament adjourns for the 42nd Canadian federal election.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada ruling in \"Carter v Canada (AG)\" states that the law banning assisted suicide of terminally-ill patients (based on the Rodriguez v British Columbia (AG) decision) was unconstitutional, and violated Section 7 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The Supreme Court issued a 12-month suspended declaration of invalidity.\n\nAs a result of the decision voluntary euthanasia was expected to be made legal for \"a competent adult person who (1) clearly consents to the termination of life and (2) has a grievous and irremediable medical condition (including an illness, disease or disability) that causes enduring suffering that is intolerable to the individual in the circumstances of his or her condition\". However, the law as passed was much more restrictive than the court envisioned and remains contentious.\n\nThe court decision includes a requirement that there must be stringent limits that are \"scrupulously monitored\". This will require the death certificate to be completed by an independent medical examiner, not the treating physician, to ensure the accuracy of reporting the cause of death.\n\nThe Canadian Medical Association (CMA) reported that not all doctors were willing to help a terminally-ill patient die. However, the belief in late 2015 was that no physician would be forced to do so. The CMA also supports the request to the Supreme Court for a six month extension, said CMA spokesman Dr. Jeff Blackmer, in order to develop educational materials and to train numerous physicians across Canada. However, by late 2015, the CMA had begun to offer educational sessions to members as to the process that would be used.\n\nAs required by the 2015 Supreme Court decision, Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould tabled a bill in parliament in April 2016 to amend the Criminal Code to allow medical assistance in dying. Bill C-14 \"create[s] exemptions from the offences of culpable homicide, of aiding suicide and of administering a noxious thing, in order to permit medical practitioners and nurse practitioners to provide medical assistance in dying and to permit pharmacists and other persons to assist in the process\". The bill will restrict assisted suicide only to mentally competent adults with \"enduring and intolerable suffering\" and in cases where death is \"reasonably foreseeable\". It also mandates a 15-day reflection period.\n\nAfter the House of Commons passed Bill C-14 that would allow for doctor-assisted suicide, it was debated in the Senate in mid-June 2016. Initially, that \"House of sober second thought\" amended the bill, expanding the right to die. However, when it became apparent that the elected House of Commons would not accept the amendment, a final vote was held on June 18. At that time, a majority agreed with the restrictive wording provided by the House of Commons indicating that \"only patients suffering from incurable illness whose natural death is 'reasonably foreseeable' are eligible for a medically assisted death\", as summarized by the \"Toronto Star\". Some opponents to the law indicate that the Carter v Canada (AG) decision was broader, including desperately ill individuals and not only those who are terminally ill or near death. The House of Commons did accept a few Senate amendments, such as requiring that patients be counseled about alternatives including palliative care and barring beneficiaries from acting in the euthanasia. Senators such as Serge Joyal who disagree with the restrictive wording believe that the provinces should refer the issue to the Supreme Court of Canada for an opinion in order to preclude the need for individuals to proceed with such an Appeal and incur the significant expense of doing so.\n\nThere was also a debate on the issue of suicide in Indigenous communities with MP Robert-Falcon Ouellette (Liberal) voting against the government on C-14. This was the first instance of a government backbencher voting against their party. Ouellette felt that large scale changes to social norms like assisted dying should move very slowly because the impacts will be felt differently across Canada and societies. \"While the people of Toronto might want this, the impact in the North will be different. We are not islands unto ourselves.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6458807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6458807", "title": "Frances Bedingfeld", "text": "Frances Bedingfeld\n\nFrances Bedingfeld, I.B.V.M. (1616–1704) led the first foundation in England of the Institute of the Blessed Virgin Mary, better known as the Sisters of Loreto, which had been founded by the Venerable Mary Ward. In 1677, she founded Bar Convent in York, the oldest surviving Roman Catholic convent in England.\nFrances was the daughter of Francis and Katherine Fortescue Bedingfeld. Born in Norfolk, England, in 1616, she came from a recusant family which had remained Roman Catholic through the Reformation. She and her 11 sisters all entered religious orders. Sent to the continent for her education due to the Penal Laws then in effect, Bedingfeld enrolled at the school run by the Institute of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Munich, then in the Electorate of Bavaria, known there as the \"English Ladies\". She later entered the Institute herself in Rome and was professed in September 1633 in the church of Santa Maria Maggiore. She later became the superior of the mother house of the order in Munich.\n\nAfter spending a number of years teaching at the school, in 1669 Bedingfeld was sent back to England due to a request of Queen Catherine of Braganza to found a school of the Institute in London. With a group of other English Sisters, she set up a school for young women, first at St Martin's Lane, with the support of the Queen. Once back in England, due to continued persecution, she wore a plain gray dress and used the alias of \"Mrs Long\".Upon the death of Charles II, finding their tenure so near to the court to be rather insecure, Frances Bedingfeld obtained, with the help of the Queen Dowager, a large house at Hammersmith with a spacious garden.\n\nFrom this community, she founded Bar Convent in York in 1677, at the invitation of Sir Thomas Gascoigne. This was the first Convent to be opened in England after the dissolution of Monasteries in 1536 by Henry VIII. First they set up a boarding school for Catholic girls, and this was followed in 1699 by a free day school. Both houses continued despite frequent harassment by local authorities for their ties to the Catholic Church, being suspected of harboring Catholic priests. Bedingfeld supervised both communities until 1686, when she settled in York.\n\nBedingfeld's family connections often helped her to avoid major punishment, even though the community endured repeated searches and destruction of their house. Bedingfeld was arrested three times: London (1674), York (1679), and in 1694, she and her great-niece, Mother Dorothy Pastor Bedingfeld, were summoned before a magistrate and briefly committed to the gaol at Ouse Bridge in York. The community was attacked in 1695, at which time the house was almost destroyed. In 1699 she resigned as Superior in favor of her niece and moved back to Munich, where she died on 4 May 1704. A house at St Mary's School, Ascot, which her successors founded in 1885, was named in her honour.\n\nAccording to William Shiels, the Bedingfeld women \"provided spiritual leadership to religious communities spread across five European states and stretching from York to Munich, as well as an enduring network of contacts for English Catholics abroad. ...and the importance of these women in sustaining English Catholicism by providing education for gentry children and hospitality to travellers cannot be overestimated.\"\n\nAlthough the convent school was closed in 1985, Bar remains the oldest surviving Roman Catholic convent in England.\n\n"}
{"id": "22618922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22618922", "title": "Georgi Burkov", "text": "Georgi Burkov\n\nGeorgi Ivanovich Burkov (; 31 May 1933 – 19 July 1990) was a Soviet film actor. He appeared in 70 films between 1967 and 1988. He died on 19 July 1990 at the age of 57 due to thrombosis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12474", "title": "Gospel of Barnabas", "text": "Gospel of Barnabas\n\nThe Gospel of Barnabas is a book depicting the life of Jesus, which claims to be by the biblical Barnabas who in this work is one of the twelve apostles. Two manuscripts are known to have existed, both dated to the late 16th or early 17th centuries, with one written in Italian and the other in Spanish. The Spanish manuscript is now lost, its text surviving only in a partial 18th-century transcript. Barnabas is about the same length as the four canonical gospels put together, with the bulk being devoted to an account of Jesus' ministry, much of it harmonized from accounts also found in the canonical gospels. In some key respects, it conforms to the Islamic interpretation of Christian origins and contradicts the New Testament teachings of Christianity.\n\nThe text of this Gospel is late and pseudepigraphical. However, some academics suggest that it may contain some remnants of an earlier, apocryphal work (perhaps Gnostic, Ebionite or Diatessaronic), redacted to bring it more in line with Islamic doctrine. Some Muslims consider the surviving versions as transmitting a suppressed apostolic original. Some Islamic organizations cite it in support of the Islamic view of Jesus.\n\nThis work should not be confused with the surviving Epistle of Barnabas, nor with the surviving Acts of Barnabas.\n\nThe earliest reference to a Barnabas gospel, which is generally agreed to correspond with the one found in the two known manuscripts, is in Morisco manuscript BNM MS 9653 in Madrid, written about 1634 by Ibrahim al-Taybili in Tunisia. While describing how the Bible predicts Muhammad, he speaks of the \"Gospel of Saint Barnabas where one can find the light\" (\"y así mismo en Evangelio de San Bernabé, donde se hallará la luz\"). The first published account of the Gospel was in 1717, when a brief reference to the Spanish text is found in \"De religione Mohamedica\" by Adriaan Reland; and then in 1718, a much more detailed description of the Italian text by the Irish deist John Toland. Both Italian and Spanish texts are referred to in 1734 by George Sale in \"The Preliminary Discourse to the Koran\":\n\nSale's translation of the Qur'an text became the standard English version at that time; and through its dissemination, and that of the Preliminary Discourse, an awareness of the Gospel of Barnabas spread widely in scholarly circles; prompting many fruitless attempts to find the Arabic original to which Sale referred. However, in his description of the Gospel in the \"Preliminary Discourse\", Sale was relying entirely on second-hand accounts. For example, contrary to Sale's notice, the words \"paraclete\" or \"periclyte\" are not explicitly found in the text of either the Spanish or Italian versions; although the Greek term \"periclyte\" is transliterated into Arabic in one of the marginal notes to the Italian manuscript at Chapter 44, as a gloss to the Italian 'uno splendore' which is indeed there applied to Muhammad by name. Subsequent to the preparation of the Preliminary Discourse, Sale was able to borrow the Spanish manuscript itself and had a transcript made.\n\nA \"Gospel according to Barnabas\" is mentioned in two early Christian lists of \"Apocrypha\" works: the Latin text of \"Decretum Gelasianum\" (6th century), as well as a 7th-century Greek \"List of the Sixty Books\". These lists are independent witnesses. In 1698 John Ernest Grabe found an otherwise unreported saying of Jesus, attributed to the Apostle Barnabas, amongst the Greek manuscripts in the Baroccian collection in the Bodleian Library; which he speculated might be a quotation from this \"lost gospel\". John Toland translates the quotation as, \"The Apostle Barnabas says, he gets the worst of it who overcomes in evil contentions; because he thus comes to have the more sin\"; and claimed to have identified a corresponding phrase when he examined the surviving Italian manuscript of the Gospel of Barnabas in Amsterdam before 1709. Subsequent scholars examining the Italian and Spanish texts have been unable, however, to confirm Toland's observation.\n\nThis work should not be confused also with the surviving \"Epistle of Barnabas\", which may have been written in 2nd century Alexandria. There is no link between the two books in style, content, or history other than their attribution to Barnabas. On the issue of circumcision, the books clearly hold very different views, that of the epistle's rejection of the Jewish practice as opposed to the gospel's promotion of the same. Neither should it be confused with the surviving \"Acts of Barnabas\", which narrates an account of Barnabas' travels, martyrdom and burial, and which is generally thought to have been written in Cyprus sometime after 431.\n\nIn A.D. 478, during the reign of the Eastern Roman (later Byzantine) Emperor Zeno, archbishop Anthemios of Cyprus announced that the hidden burial place of Barnabas had been revealed to him in a dream. The saint's body was claimed to have been discovered in a cave with a copy of the canonical Gospel of Matthew on its breast; according to the contemporary account of Theodorus Lector, who reports that both bones and gospel book were presented by Anthemios to the emperor. Some scholars who maintain the antiquity of the Gospel of Barnabas propose that the text purportedly discovered in 478 should be identified with the Gospel of Barnabas instead; but this supposition is at variance with an account of Anthemios's gospel book by Severus of Antioch, who reported having examined the manuscript around the year 500, seeking to find whether it supported the piercing of the crucified Jesus by a spear at Matthew 27:49 (it did not). According to the 11th-century Byzantine historian Georgios Kedrenos, an uncial manuscript of Matthew's Gospel, believed to be that found by Anthemios, was then still preserved in the Chapel of St Stephen in the imperial palace in Constantinople.\n\nPrince Eugene's Italian manuscript had been presented to him in 1713 by John Frederick Cramer (1664-1715); and was transferred to the Austrian National Library in Vienna in 1738 with the rest of his library. In Amsterdam sometime before 1709, Cramer had lent the manuscript to Toland, who writes that; \"(Mr. Cramer) had it out of the library of a person of great name and authority in that said city; who during his life was often heard to put a high value on the piece. Whether as a rarity, or as the model of his religion, I know not.\" Michel Fremaux reports no success in tracking and identifying this previous owner, or in finding a corresponding manuscript listed in any Amsterdam catalogue or inventory. However, Toland's notice would imply that the unnamed deceased former owner was a prominent anti-Trinitarian or Unitarian by religion; and Fremaux conjectures that the manuscript may have been brought to Amsterdam by Christopher Sandius (1644-1680), either from his own activity as a collector in Poland; or more likely from his acquisition of the papers of Giovanni Michele Bruto (1517-1592), who had assembled an extensive collection of manuscript sources in Hungary and Transylvania. Cramer had published an edition of Bruto's theological writings in 1698, and Fremaux speculates that Cramer might have come across the Gospel of Barnabas in the course of his researches within Sandius's library in Amsterdam. Otherwise, Slomp has proposed that Gregorio Leti (1630–1701), whose Amsterdam library had been auctioned-off following his death, could be the unnamed former owner of the Italian manuscript. Leti however, though hostile to the Papacy (and Sixtus V in particular) was an orthodox Calvinist in religion.\n\nThe Italian manuscript has 506 pages, of which the Gospel of Barnabas fills pages 43 to 500, written within red frames in an Islamic style. The preceding pages five to forty-two are also red framed; but remain blank (other than for Cramer's presentation to Prince Eugene), and it may be inferred that some sort of preface or preliminary text was intended, although the space is much greater than would have been needed for the text of the corresponding Spanish Preface. There are chapter rubrics and margin notes in ungrammatical Arabic; with an occasional Turkish word, and many Turkish syntactical features. Its binding is Turkish, and appears to be original; but the paper has an Italian watermark, which has been dated between 1563 and 1620. The same scribe wrote both the Italian text and the Arabic notes, and was clearly \"occidental\" in being accustomed to write from left to right. There are catchwords at the bottom of each page, a practice common in manuscripts intended to be set up for printing. The manuscript appears to be unfinished, in that the Prologue and 222 chapters are provided throughout with framed blank spaces for titular headings, but only 28 of these spaces have been filled. This Italian manuscript formed the basis for the most commonly circulated English version, a translation undertaken by Lonsdale and Laura Ragg and published in 1907. The Raggs' English version was quickly re-translated into Arabic by Rashid Rida, in an edition published in Egypt in 1908.\n\nThe Italian spelling is idiosyncratic in frequently doubling consonants and adding an intrusive initial \"h\" where a word starts with a vowel (e.g. \"hanno\" for \"anno\"). The writer is not a professional scribe. Otherwise, however, the orthography and punctuation indicates a hand formed in the first half of the 16th century, and in certain key respects is characteristically Venetian. The underlying dialect however, is Tuscan; and shows a number of characteristic late medieval (14th–15th-century) forms. The linguistic experts consulted by the Raggs concluded that the Vienna manuscript was most likely the work of an older Venetian scribe, copying a Tuscan original, and writing in the second half of the 16th century.\n\nThe italian manuscript influenced - through John Toland's \"Nazarenus\" (1718) - the early masterminds of biblical criticism as Reimarus, Lessing or Eichhorn. Lessing´s \"Urevangeliumshypothese\" (proto-gospel-theory) has been clearly affected by Toland, who thought of the Gospel of Barnabas as a recension of the hebrew gospel used by the ebionites and nazarenes. Thus, Toland identified the italian manuscript as a late descendant of an early jewish-christian gospel that has been received and transmitted by the muslim tradition. Tolands thesis has more recently been resumed by the Orientalists Shlomo Pines (1966), Marc Philonenko (1974) and Luigi Cirillo (1975).\nSale says of the lost Spanish manuscript; \"The book is a moderate quarto.. written in a very legible hand, but a little damaged towards the latter end. It contains two hundred and twenty-two chapters of unequal length, and four hundred and twenty pages\". It had been lent to Sale by Dr. George Holme (1676-1765), Rector of Headley in Hampshire from 1718 till his death. Sale had a transcript made for his own use, and returned the original to Dr Holme; and it is recorded as being bequeathed to Queen's College, Oxford in Holme's will. This manuscript, with an English translation, passed subsequently to Dr. Thomas Monkhouse, also of Queen's College, who himself lent both text and translation to Dr. Joseph White who used them for his series of Bampton Lectures in 1784. Sale supposes that the Spanish manuscript is African in origin, but otherwise provides no indication of how Dr. Holme might have come by it; but as Holme had been chaplain to the English factory in Algiers from 1707 to 1709, a North African provenance may be inferred. Sale quotes three passages from the text in Spanish; and a further nine chapters are quoted by White in English translation. No trace is known of the original Spanish manuscript after Dr. Monkhouse's death in 1792. \n\nHowever, an 18th-century copy, derived from the manuscript, was mentioned in a 1760 catalogue of the collection of manuscripts of the deceased author Joseph Ames, where it was described as \"El Evangelio de Barnabas Apostol, transcribed from one in the Possession of Mr. Edm. Calamy, who bought it at the Decease of Mr. Geo. Sale, fol.\" Then, William Hone mentions the manuscript at the end of his 1823 book \"Ancient mysteries described\", where Hone describes why he did not include the Gospel of Barnabas in his other book, \"Apocryphal New Testament\":\n\n\"It is said that the Gospel of Barnabas ought to have been included. Of that Gospel, the Rev. Jeremiah Jones supposed that there were no fragments extant. He refers to the Italian MS. of it in Prince Eugene's Library, quoted by Toland and La Monnoy, and gives their citations, at the same time observing that the piece is a Mahometan imposture. From another MS. belonging to Dr. Monkhouse, the Rev. Joseph White, in the notes to his Bampton Lectures, produces a long extract. Sale, who in his translation of the Koran, notices this Gospel, likewise had a MS. of it, which after his death was purchased by the Rev. Edm. Calamy, who permitted a copy to be taken by Mr. John Nickolls, the portrait collector: on his decease it became the property of Mr. Joseph Ames, author of the \"History of Printing\", and is now in my possession.\n\nThe transcript was rediscovered in the 1970s in the University of Sydney's Fisher Library among the books of Charles Nicholson, labelled in English \"Transcribed from ms. in possession of the Revd Mr Edm. Callamy who bought it at the decease of Mr George Sale ... and now gave me at the decease of Mr John Nickolls, 1745; (signed) N. Hone\". The Sydney manuscript therefore is a copy of Sale's own transcript; and has 130 pages but does not contain the entire text, as at the bottom of page 116 there is a note \"Cap 121 to 200 wanting\", such that page 117 resumes with chapter 200 (in the Spanish numeration). Comparing the Sydney transcript with the counterpart passages quoted in Spanish by Sale, there are no substantial differences, but it would appear that sometime between Sale's death in 1736 and 1745 some 80 chapters of his transcript had been lost; and are consequently also missing from the Sydney copy.\nThe Spanish text is preceded by a note claiming that it was translated from Italian by Mustafa de Aranda, an Aragonese Muslim resident in Istanbul. A Morisco letter of around 1630, now in Madrid, confirms de Aranda as an associate of Ibrahim al-Taybili, in whose works is found the earliest reference to the Spanish Gospel. In the Spanish text, the translator's note is itself preceded by a Preface by one assuming the pseudonym 'Fra Marino', claiming to have stolen a copy of the Italian version from the library of Pope Sixtus V. Fra Marino, clearly a high ranking Italian ecclesiastic, reports that having a post in the Inquisition Court, he had come into possession of several works which led him to believe that the Biblical text had been corrupted and that genuine apostolic texts had been improperly excluded. Fra Marino also claims to have been alerted to the existence of the Gospel of Barnabas, from an allusion in a work by Irenaeus against Paul; in a book which had been presented to him by a lady of the Colonna family. Marino outside Rome was a Colonna estate, and during the later 16th century Cardinal Ascanio Colonna, a close associate of both Sixtus V and Philip II of Spain, was building a palazzo there. \n\nThe linguistic forms, spelling and punctuation of the Spanish text (as recorded in the Sydney transcript) are generally close to standard Castilian of the late 16th century; and lack the idiosyncrasies of the Italian manuscript. Hence, linguistically, the surviving Spanish text appears later than the surviving Italian text; but this does not necessarily confirm that the underlying Spanish text is secondary.\n\nAside from the missing 80 chapters, there are differences in the chapter divisions between the Italian and Spanish texts; and also between the Sydney transcript and the Spanish passages quoted by Dr. White in English. The Italian and Spanish chapters agree for the prologue and up to chapter 116. Chapter 117 in the Italian version is split into Chapters 117 and 118 in the Spanish; and then Chapters 118 and 119 in the Italian correspond with 119 in the Spanish. Chapter 120, before the lacuna, is common to both; but when the Spanish manuscript resumes, its numbered Chapter 200 corresponds to the numbered Italian Chapter 199. The two versions continue one chapter out of phase for the rest of the book so that the final Chapter 222 in the Sydney transcript corresponds to Chapter 221 in the Italian. The final Chapter 222 in the Italian is missing from the Spanish text. In the quotations of Joseph White, there is a further difference in that the long Chapter 218 (217 in the Italian text) is split, so that Chapter 220 in Dr. White's text corresponds to Chapter 219 in the Sydney transcript and Chapter 218 in the Italian manuscript. Dr. White's Chapter 221 corresponds with both Chapters 220 and 221 in the Sydney transcript, and Chapters 219 and 220 in the Italian. In this context it may be noted that Chapter 218 in the Italian manuscript contains a corrected chapter division, in that the scribe originally split off the final paragraph into the start of Chapter 219, and then erased and overwrote the division. This suggests that whatever text the scribe of the Italian manuscript was using as his copy, was unclear as to chapter divisions at this point.\n\nBesides the absent final chapter, and the large lacuna already noted; the Spanish text also misses a section of around 100 words from its Chapter 222 (Chapter 221 in the Italian) and another substantial but shorter section from Chapter 211 (Chapter 210 in the Italian). These may be related to Sale's note that the manuscript was damaged towards the end. Otherwise there are numerous points where words present in the Italian text (and necessary for the sense) are not represented in the Spanish translation. Conversely there are also around a dozen places where the Raggs had speculated that a word or phrase might have been accidentally omitted in their Italian text, and in all these instances, the Spanish text supplies the missing words.\n\nUnlike the Italian text, the Spanish text has no Arabic marginal notes or chapter summaries, nor are the Italian titles for the first twenty-seven chapters represented in the Spanish. There is a title provided in the Spanish text above the Prologue but this differs from that provided above the Prologue in the Italian text. Contrariwise, there is a title provided above Chapter 218 in the Sydney transcript, which is not found either above the corresponding Chapter 217 in the Italian text, nor is quoted at this point by Dr. White.\n\nOther than in their respective copyist errors, there appear to be few substantial differences of meaning between the Spanish and Italian text; but one notable variant is found in the description of the crucifixion of Judas Iscariot in Chapter 218 in the Spanish text (217 in the Italian text). Jesus Christ has been miraculously abstracted from the action; and Judas, transformed into the likeness of Jesus, is crucified in his place. In the Spanish manuscript, and Dr. White's translation, it is said that all Jesus's disciples remained fooled by the transformation throughout the crucifixion \"excepting Peter\"; but this specific qualification is not present in the Italian text, nor is Peter stated as an exception in the earlier account of the transformation itself in Chapter 217 of the Spanish text.\n\nSome researchers of the work argue for an Italian origin, noting phrases in Barnabas which are very similar to phrases used by Dante and suggesting that the author of Barnabas borrowed from Dante's works; they take the Spanish version's preface and translators's note as supporting this conclusion. Other researchers have noted a range of textual similarities between passages in the Gospel of Barnabas, and variously the texts of a series of late medieval vernacular harmonies of the four canonical gospels (in Middle English and Middle Dutch, but especially in Middle Italian); which are all speculated as deriving from a lost Vetus Latina version of the Diatessaron of Tatian. If true, this would also support an Italian origin.\n\nOther researchers argue that the Spanish version came first; regarding both the translator's note, and the Spanish preface's claims of an Italian source, as fabrications intended to boost the work's credibility by linking it to the Papal libraries. These scholars note parallels with a series of Morisco forgeries, the Lead Books of Sacromonte, dating from the 1590s; or otherwise with Morisco reworkings of Christian and Islamic traditions, produced following the expulsion of the Moriscos from Spain.\n\nA detailed comparison between the surviving Italian and Spanish texts shows numerous places where the Spanish reading appears to be secondary, as for example, where a word or phrase necessary for the meaning is missing in the Spanish text but present in the Italian. Bernabé Pons, arguing for the priority of the Spanish version, maintains that these are due to transcription errors accumulating through the stages of creating the Sydney manuscript, which is a copy of a copy. Joosten, however, while accepting that the carelessness of the two successive English copyists is the most likely explanation for most such instances, nevertheless argues that a minority of such readings are inherently more likely to be due to translation errors in the Spanish text. In particular, he sees the Spanish text as containing numerous 'Italicisms' as, for example, where the Italian text employs the conjunction \"pero\", with an Italian meaning 'therefore'; while the Spanish text also reads \"pero\", with a Spanish meaning 'however'; the Italian sense being the one demanded by the context. He finds no counterpart 'Castilianisms' in the Italian text. There are, however, other passages where the Spanish reading makes sense, while the Italian does not, and many features of the Italian text that are not found in the Spanish; such as the titles for chapters 1–27. Joosten argues that this indicates that both the 16th-century Italian and Spanish texts must depend on a lost Italian original, which he, in common with the Raggs, dates substantially to the mid-14th century. Joosten states:\n\nIf the Italian version is the original, then a plausible context for the text in its final form may be within anti-Trinitarian circles in Transylvania. In the mid 16th century many Italian and German anti-Trinitarians, persecuted both by Calvinists and by the Inquisition, sought refuge in Transylvania, whose church had adopted anti-Trinitarian doctrines in 1568, and whose aristocratic houses maintained an Italian-speaking culture. Michael Fremaux, in support of the hypothesis that the Italian manuscript may have been brought to Amsterdam from Translyvania, instances Symon Budny, Jacob Palaeologus and Christian Francken as late 16th century anti-Trinitrian thinkers with Transylvanian connections, whose religious teachings find close parallels in the Gospel of Barnabas.\nTransylvania was nominally under Turkish overlordship and had close links to Istanbul; and when following the death of the anti-Trinitarian prince John Sigismund Zápolya in 1571 it became difficult for anti-Trinitarians to publish locally, attempts were made in the 1570s to establish a printing press in the Turkish capital to publish radical Protestant works.\n\nFollowing the conquest of Moorish Granada in 1492, Sephardi Jews and Muslim Mudéjar were expelled from Spain. Although some found initial refuge in Italy (especially Venice), most resettled in the Ottoman Empire, where Spanish speaking Jews established in Istanbul a rich sub-culture with a flourishing Hebrew and Ladino printing industry. Numbers were further augmented after 1550, following campaigns of persecution by the Venetian Inquisition against Italian anti-Trinitarians and Jews. Although Muslim teaching at this time strongly opposed the printing of Islamic or Arabic texts, non-Muslim printing was not, in principle, forbidden. In the Spanish preface, Fra Marino records his wish that the Gospel of Barnabas should be printed, and the only place in Europe where that would have been possible in the late 16th century would have been Istanbul.\n\nThe lost Spanish manuscript claimed to have been written in Istanbul, and the surviving Italian manuscript has several Turkish features; so, whether the language of origin was Spanish or Italian, Istanbul is regarded by most researchers as the place of origin of the two known texts. A minority of researchers – such as David Sox – are, however, suspicious of the apparent 'Turkish' features of the Italian manuscript; especially the Arabic annotations, which they adjudge to be so riddled with elementary errors as to be most unlikely to have been written in Istanbul (even by an Italian scribe). In particular, they note that the glossing of the Italian version of the \"shahada\" into Arabic, does not correspond exactly with the standard ritual formula recited daily by every Muslim. These researchers are inclined to infer from these inconsistencies that both manuscripts may represent an exercise in forensic falsification, and they tend to locate their place of origin as Rome.\n\nFew academics argue that the text, in its present form, dates back any earlier than the 14th–16th centuries; although a minority see it as containing portions of an earlier work, and almost all would detect the influence of earlier sources—over and above the Vulgate text of the Latin Bible. Consequently, most researchers would concur with a stratification of the surviving text into at least three distinct layers of composition:\n\nMuch of the controversy and dispute concerning the authenticity of the Gospel of Barnabas can be re-expressed as debating whether specific highly transgressive themes (from an orthodox Christian perspective) might already have been present in the source materials utilised by a 14th–16th-century vernacular author, whether they might be due to that author himself, or whether they might even have been interpolated by the subsequent editor. Those researchers who regard these particular themes as primitive, nevertheless do not generally dispute that other parts of the Gospel may be late and anachronistic; while those researchers who reject the authenticity of these particular themes do not generally dispute that other parts of the Gospel could be transmitting variant readings from antiquity.\n\nThis work clearly contradicts the New Testament biblical accounts of Jesus and his ministry but has strong parallels with the Islamic faith, not only mentioning Muhammad by name, but including the \"shahadah\" (chapter 39). It is strongly anti-Pauline and anti-Trinitarian in tone. In this work, Jesus is described as a prophet and not the son of God, while Paul is called \"the deceived.\" Furthermore, the Gospel of Barnabas states that Jesus escaped crucifixion by being raised alive to heaven, while Judas Iscariot the traitor was crucified in his place. These beliefs—in particular, that Jesus is a prophet of God and raised alive without being crucified—conform to or resemble Islamic teachings which say that Jesus is a major prophet who did not die on the cross but was taken alive by angels to God.\n\nOther passages, however, conflict with the teachings of the Qur'an—as, for instance, in the account of the Nativity, where Mary is said to have given birth to Jesus without pain or as in Jesus's ministry, where he permits the drinking of wine and enjoins monogamy—though the Qur'an allegedly acknowledges each prophet had a set of their own laws that might differ in some aspects from each other. Other examples include that hell will only be for the committers of the seven deadly sins (Barnabas: 4–44/135), anyone who refuses to be circumcised will not enter paradise (Barnabas 17/23), that there are 9 heavens (Barnabas 3/105).\n\nIf the \"Gospel of Barnabas\" is seen as an attempted synthesis of elements from both Christianity and Islam, then 16th- and 17th-century parallels can be suggested in Morisco and anti-Trinitarian writings.\n\nThe Gospel of Barnabas was little known outside academic circles until recent times, when a number of Muslims have taken to publishing it to argue against the orthodox Christian conception of Jesus. It generally resonates better with existing Muslim views than with Christianity:\n\nQur'an Sura 4 Verse 157-158:\n\" And because of their saying: We slew the Messiah Jesus son of Mary, Allah's messenger They slew him not nor crucified, but it appeared so unto them; and lo! those who disagree concerning it are in doubt thereof; they have no knowledge thereof save pursuit of a conjecture ; they slew him not for certain, but Allah took him up unto Himself. Allah is ever Mighty, wise.\"\n\nRather than describing the crucifixion of Jesus, Gospel of Barnabas describes him being raised up into heaven It can be likened to the description of Elijah in 2 Kings, Chapter 2. It also foretells the coming of Muhammad by name and it calls Jesus a \"prophet\" whose mission was restricted to the \"house of Israel\".\n\nIt contains an extended polemic against the doctrine of predestination (Chapter 164), and in favour of justification by faith; arguing that the eternal destination of the soul to Heaven or Hell is neither pre-determined by God's grace (as in Calvinism), nor the judgement of God, in his mercy, on the faith of believers on Earth (as in Islam). Instead it states that all those condemned at the last judgement, but who subsequently respond in faith, who demonstrate unfeigned penitence, and who make a free choice of blessedness, will eventually be offered salvation (Chapter 137). Only those whose persistent pride prevents them from sincere repentance will remain forever in Hell. Such radically Pelagian beliefs in the 16th century were found amongst the anti-Trinitarian Protestant traditions later denoted as Unitarianism. Some 16th-century anti-Trinitarian divines sought to reconcile Christianity, Islam and Judaism; on the basis of very similar arguments to those presented in the Gospel of Barnabas, arguing that if salvation remains unresolved until the end times, then any one of the three religions could be a valid path to heaven for their own believers. The Spaniard, Michael Servetus denounced the orthodox Christian formulation of the Trinity (alleging the only explicit reference to the Trinity in the New Testament to be a later interpolation); and hoped thereby to bridge the doctrinal divide between Christianity and Islam. In 1553 he was executed in Geneva under the authority of John Calvin, but his teachings remained very influential amongst Italian Protestant exiles.\n\nIncluded in chapter 145 is \"The little book of Elijah\"; which sets out instructions for a righteous life of asceticism and hermetic spirituality. Over the succeeding 47 chapters, Jesus is recorded as developing the theme that the ancient prophets, specifically Obadiah, Haggai and Hosea, were holy hermits following this religious rule; and contrasting their followers – termed \"true Pharisees\" – with the \"false Pharisees\" who lived in the world, and who constituted his chief opponents. The \"true Pharisees\" are said to congregate on Mount Carmel. This accords with the teaching of the medieval Carmelites, who lived as an eremetic congregation on Carmel in the 13th century; but who claimed (without any evidence) to be direct successors of Elijah and the Old Testament prophets. In 1291 the Mamluk advance into Syria compelled the friars on Carmel to abandon their monastery; but on dispersing through Western Europe they found that Western Carmelite congregations – especially in Italy – had largely abandoned the eremetic and ascetic ideal, adopting instead the conventual life and mission of the other Mendicant orders. Some researchers consider that the ensuing 14th–16th-century controversies can be found reflected in the text of the Gospel of Barnabas.\n\nThe Gospel also takes a strongly anti-Pauline tone at times, saying in the Italian version's beginning: \"many, being deceived of Satan, under pretence of piety, are preaching most impious doctrine, calling Jesus son of God, repudiating the circumcision ordained of God for ever, and permitting every unclean meat: among whom also Paul has been deceived.\"\n\nThe Gospel of Barnabas claims that Jesus predicted the advent of Muhammad, thus conforming with the Qur'an which mentions:\n\nA Muslim scholarly tradition links this Qur'anic passage to the New Testament references to the Paraclete in the canonical Gospel of John (14:16, 14:26, 15:26, 16:7). The Greek word \"paraclete\" can be translated as \"Counsellor\", and refers according to Christians to the Holy Spirit. Some Muslim scholars, have noted the similarity to the Greek \"peryklytos\" which can be translated as \"admirable one\"; or in Arabic, \"Ahmad\".\n\nThe name of \"Muhammad\" is frequently mentioned verbatim in the Gospel of Barnabas, as in the following quote:\nHowever, while there are many passages where the Gospel of Barnabas sets out alternative readings to parallel pericopes found in the canonical gospels, none of the references to Muhammad by name occurs in such a synoptic passage; and in particular, none of the \"Muhammad\" references in Barnabas corresponds to a \"Paraclete\" reference in canonical John. There is only one instance where the Gospel of Barnabas might be understood as \"correcting\" a known canonical pericope, so as to record a prophecy by Jesus of the (unnamed) Messenger of God:\n\nThis passage corresponds closely with the canonical John 1:19–30, except that in that passage, the words are spoken by John the Baptist and refer to Jesus. John the Baptist does not feature at all in the Gospel of Barnabas - although in the Qur'an he is identified as the revered prophet Yahya ibn Zakariya, foretelling Jesus. Nor does the Gospel of Barnabas have any reference to the baptism of Jesus or baptism in general.\n\nAccording to one version of the Gospel of Barnabas:\n\nand\n\nAs mentioned above, these pronouncements contradict Islamic belief as Jesus is not only mentioned as a prophet in the Qur'an but also referred to by the title \"al-Masih\" which is the Arabic translation of the term \"Messiah.\" It is also important to note that the Qur'an never makes use of this term to refer to Muhammad and that the only Qur'anic figure to bear this title is Jesus or Isa. Some Muslim scholars argue that the Gospel of Barnabas has been modified, thus inconsistency is observed. Also, some may argue that the word \"Messiah\" can be a formal title for Jesus Christ, but the meaning \"anointed\" can be attributed to others, such as King David, anointed to kingship, and his son Solomon. Some Muslim scholars state that this references the Mahdi, an eschatological figure in Islam, who will help defeat al-Masih ad-Dajjal (lit \"the false messiah\", cf. antichrist), according to Islamic tradition contained within the \"sahih\" (correct) \"hadith\" (records of traditions), which Muslims believe to be authentic and reliable narratives of the sayings and practices of Muhammad.\n\nIn the Qur'an, however, it is clearly stated that the messiah will be named \"Isa\" (note that Arabic-speaking Christians use the name \"Yasoo`a = يَسُوعَ\", cognate to the Hebrew and Aramaic \"Yeshua\", to refer to Jesus Christ: the name \"Isa\" is present solely in classical Arabic):\n\n(Remember) when the angels said: \"O Maryam (Mary)! Verily, Allah gives you the glad tidings of a Word [\"Be!\" – and he was! i.e. 'Îsa the son of Maryam, daughter of Imran (Eng. Amram – Moses' father)] from Him, his name will be the Messiah 'Îsa, the son of Maryam, held in honour in this world and in the Hereafter, and will be one of those who are near to Allah.\" – Surah 3:45, Yusuf Ali translation.\n\nAccording to one version of the Gospel of Barnabas, Jesus denied being the Messiah, claiming rather that the Messiah would be Ishmaelite (i.e. Arab):\n\nHajj Sayed (Senior Member in CIMS), in his new book in Egypt, compares this to the following statement from the canonical Bible:\n\nAccording to the canonical Gospels, Jesus was the \"son\" (descendant) of David; thus, Hajj Sayed argues that this statement confirms the Gospel of Barnabas' point.\n\nThe idea of the Messiah as an Arab is also found in another chapter of Gospel of Barnabas:\n\nHere, one version of the Gospel of Barnabas also quotes Jesus as saying that the sacrificed son of Abraham was Ishmael not Isaac, conforming to Islamic belief but disagreeing with Jewish and Christian belief. A connection might also be drawn between the last paragraph's statement that \"in him should all the tribes of the earth be blessed\", and the meaning of the name \"Muhammad\", the \"Praised (or Blessed) One\".\n\nAccording to the Gospel of Barnabas, Jesus foresaw and rejected his own deification:\n\nThis conforms entirely with Muslim belief, according to which Jesus is just a human and a prophet. According to some ahadith, he will come back to earth in the future and declare to the world that he is \"a Servant of God\".\n\nHajj Sayed argues that the description of the conflict between Paul and Barnabas in Galatians supports the idea that the Gospel of Barnabas existed at the time of Paul. Blackhirst has suggested, by contrast, that Galatian's account of this argument could be the reason the gospel's writer attributed it to Barnabas. Paul writes in (Galatians Chapter 2):\n\nPaul was attacking Peter for \"trying to satisfy the Jews\" by sticking to their laws, such as circumcision. It is contended that at this point Barnabas was following Peter and disagreeing with Paul. Some feel it also suggests that the inhabitants of Galatia at his time were using a gospel or gospels disagreeing with Paul's beliefs, which the Gospel of Barnabas could be one of them (although the Gospel of Peter would seem a more natural candidate, as in the light of the second letter.) To Galatian's account we may compare the Introductory Chapter of Gospel of Barnabas, where we read:\n\nFrom the previous passages, it is argued that in the beginning, Paul and Barnabas were getting along with each other; but that at the end, they started to depart in their beliefs to give to the importance of the Jewish law.\n\nAccording to the following passage, Jesus talked to Barnabas and gave him a secret:\nAlso according to the Gospel of Barnabas, Jesus charged Barnabas to write the gospel:\n\nSome readers have noted that the \"Gospel of Barnabas\" contains a number of anachronisms and historical incongruities:\n\nSince the publication of English, Arabic, and Urdu translations at the beginning of the 20th century, the work has been popularly cited in support of the Islamic view of Jesus. Islamic writers who cite the work include Rahmatullah Kairanawi, Rashid Rida, Sayyid Abul Ala Maududi, Muhammad Ata ur-Rahim, and Mirza Ghulam Ahmad.\n\nStandard Muslim teaching asserts that the \"Injil\" Arabic name for the Evangel or the prophetic Gospel delivered through the prophet \"Isa\" (Jesus of Nazareth), has been irretrievably corrupted and distorted in the course of Christian transmission. In consequence, no reliance can be placed on any text in the Christian tradition (including the four canonical gospels of the Christian New Testament) as truly representing the teachings of Jesus. Viewed from an orthodox Islamic perspective, the Gospel of Barnabas might be considered a Christian work, as its many points of difference from the Qur'an suggest; hence, it too may be expected to have undergone corruption and distortion. Consequently, no orthodox Muslim writer accepts the Gospel of Barnabas as transmitting the authentic \"Injil\", and few deny that the known Italian text contains substantial elements of late fabrication. Nevertheless, Muslim writers sometimes note those elements of the Gospel of Barnabas that stand in accord with standard Qur'anic teaching, such as the denial of Jesus as being Son of God and the prophetic prediction by Jesus of the coming Messenger of God and, consequently, some Muslims are inclined to regard these specific elements as representing the survival of suppressed early Jesus traditions much more compatible with Islam.\n\nIn 1985, it was briefly claimed that an early Syriac copy of this gospel had been found near Hakkâri in eastern Turkey. However, it has since been demonstrated that this manuscript actually contains the canonical Bible.\n\nIn February 2012, it was confirmed by the Turkish Ministry of Culture and Tourism that a 52-page biblical manuscript in Syriac writing had been deposited in the Ethnography Museum of Ankara. Newspaper reports in Turkey claimed that the manuscript had been found in Cyprus in 2000, in an operation conducted by police against smugglers, and had been kept in a police repository since then; and further speculated that the text of the manuscript could be that of the Gospel of Barnabas. Photographs of a cover page have been widely published, on which can be read an inscription in a recent Neo-Aramaic hand, stating \"In the name of our Lord, this book is written on the hands of the monks of the high monastery in Nineveh, in the 1,500th year of our Lord\". No subsequent confirmation has been published, either as to the contents of the Ankara manuscript, or as to any findings of scientific tests for its age and authenticity.\n\nThe complete Italian text is transcribed with an English translation and introduction:\n\nThe Ragg's English translation was soon recopied in numerous unauthorised reprintings, chiefly in British India; and remains widely available to this day, both in paperback form and on the internet. These editions however, lack the Ragg's introduction and notes; as also their transcription of the Italian text and translations of the Arabic notes. They also differ from the original due to transcription errors. The Oxford University Press has not reprinted the 1907 text; however, now that it is out of copyright, a facsimile of the 1907 edition has been produced by Kessinger Publishing.\n\nA second Italian edition – in parallel columns with a modernised text:\n\nThe complete text of the Italian manuscript has been published in photo-facsimile; with a French translation and extensive commentary and textual apparatus:\n\nIn 1999 Michel Fremaux issued a second edition of the manuscript facsimile, updated to take account of the recently rediscovered transcription of the Spanish manuscript: \n\nThe text of the Spanish manuscript has been published with introduction, and annotations identifying variant readings in the Spanish and Italian texts:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4797745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4797745", "title": "Index of biotechnology articles", "text": "Index of biotechnology articles\n\nThis page provides an alphabetical list of articles and other pages (including categories, lists, etc.) about biotechnology. For other overviews of the topic, please see the .\n\nAgrobacterium -- Affymetrix -- Alcoholic beverages -- -- Amgen -- Antibiotic -- Artificial selection\n\nBiochemical engineering -- Biochip -- Biodiesel -- Bioengineering -- Biofuel -- Biogas -- Biogen Idec -- Bioindicator -- Bioinformatics -- -- Bioleaching -- Biological agent -- Biological warfare -- Bioluminescence -- Biomimetics -- Bionanotechnology -- Bionics --Biopharmacology -- Biophotonics -- Bioreactor -- Bioremediation -- Biostimulation -- Biosynthesis -- Biotechnology -- -- -- -- Bt corn\n\nCancer immunotherapy -- Cell therapy -- Chimera (genetics) -- Chinese hamster -- Chinese Hamster Ovary cell -- Chiron Corp. -- Cloning -- Compost -- Composting -- Convention on Biological Diversity -- Chromatography\n\nDirective on the patentability of biotechnological inventions -- DNA microarray -- Dwarfing\n\nEnzymes -- Electroporation -- Environmental biotechnology -- Eugenics\n\nFermentation -- \n\nGene knockout -- Gene therapy -- Genentech -- Genetic engineering -- Genetically modified crops --Genetically modified food -- Genetically modified food controversies -- Genetically modified organisms -- Genetics -- Genomics -- Genzyme -- Global Knowledge Center on Crop Biotechnology - Glycomics -- Golden rice -- Green fluorescent protein\n\nHuman cloning -- Human Genome Project\n\nImmunotherapy -- Immune suppression -- Industrial biotechnology -- Interactomics\n\nlocon\nLipidomics\n\nMedImmune -- Metabolic engineering -- Metabolomics -- Metagenomics -- Microbial Fuel Cell -- Microfluidics -- Millennium Pharmaceuticals -- Monoclonal antibodies -- Mycofiltration -- Mycoremediation\n\nNanobiotechnology\n\nOmics\n\nPhosphatases -- Pfizer Inc. -- Phage therapy -- Pharmacogenomics -- Pharming (genetics) -- Plant-made pharmaceuticals -- Plantibody -- Proteomics\n\nRecombinant DNA -- Regulation of the release of genetic modified organisms -- Reporter gene\n\nSelective breeding -- Serono -- Shotgun sequencing -- Stem cell -- STR multiplex systems -- Sustainability -- Sustainable development\n\nTerminator technology -- Transcriptomics -- Transgenic animal -- Transgenic plants -- Transgenic plant production\n\nUse of biotechnology in pharmaceutical manufacturing\n\nVaccine\n\nXenotransplantation\n\nzoology\n"}
{"id": "40939949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40939949", "title": "Joseph Abbott (Irish priest)", "text": "Joseph Abbott (Irish priest)\n\nJoseph William Abbott was Dean of Leighlin from 1912 until 1939.\n\nBolton was educated at Trinity College, Dublin and ordained deacon in 1876 and priest in 1876. He began his ecclesiastical career with a curacy in Bilboa. He held incumbencies in Old Leighlin, Tullow and Kiltennel.\n\nHe died on 25 April 1939.\n"}
{"id": "27254665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27254665", "title": "Juhamatti Aaltonen", "text": "Juhamatti Aaltonen\n\nJuhamatti Tapio Aaltonen (born 4 June 1985) is a Finnish professional ice hockey winger, who currently plays for Skellefteå AIK of the Swedish Hockey League. Known for his skill and skating speed, Aaltonen was drafted by the St. Louis Blues as the 248th selection overall in the 2003 NHL Entry Draft.\n\nAaltonen started his professional career with Oulun Kärpät, playing with the team from 2002 to 2009 winning Finnish championship twice. After the years he spent with Kärpät, Aaltonen moved to Lahti to play for Pelicans, where he played his breakthrough year scoring 28 goals and 49 points in 58 games in regular season. He signed a five-year contract with Pelicans, but the contract also gave Aaltonen a possibility to play in other leagues.\n\nThis option in his contract was exercised on 15 June 2010, when he was loaned from the Pelicans to Russian club, Metallurg Magnitogorsk of the KHL. Aaltonen was an integral part of Metallurg's offense in his two seasons in the KHL before he opted to sign with Swedish club, Rögle BK of the then Elitserien on 15 October 2012. He made his debut in Sweden two-days later and in the 2012–13 season, contributed with 31 points in 42 regular season games.\n\nAfter a season's long return with his original Finnish club, Kärpät, Aaltonen signed for his third Finnish team, and only KHL participant, Jokerit on 1 August 2014. After Jokerit he had a season with Helsinki IFK in Liiga moving to SHL and Rögle for 2017-18.\n\nFollowing the season 2009–10 season, he was selected to join the Finland men's national ice hockey team and he played at the 2010 IIHF World Championship. He won the World Championship in 2011 IIHF World Championship. He also played in the 2014 Winter Olympics, scoring the game-tying goal against Russia in the quarterfinal and went on to win bronze.\n\n"}
{"id": "55713162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55713162", "title": "Karpal Kaur Sandhu", "text": "Karpal Kaur Sandhu\n\nKarpal Kaur Sandhu was the first female Asian police officer in the world. She served in the Metropolitan Police Service from 1971 to 1973.\n\nSandhu was born in Zanzibar in 1943, before moving to Britain in 1962 and becoming a nurse. She joined the Metropolitan Police Service on 1 February 1971, serving first in Hornsey, then in Walthamstow and Leyton. Her date of joining made her the first female Asian police officer in the world, beating India's Kiran Bedi by just over one year. \n\nSandhu died in the line of duty on 4 November 1973. Her husband did not agree with her becoming a police officer, and he had taken their two children to India. However, he returned to the UK and confronted her outside her house in Chelmsford Road, Walthamstow. When her husband attacked her, she recalled herself to duty in order to arrest him, but he stabbed her in the neck. In March 1974 he was found guilty of her murder.\n"}
{"id": "13680174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13680174", "title": "Lake of fire", "text": "Lake of fire\n\nA lake of fire appears, in both ancient Egyptian and Christian religion, as a place of after-death destruction of the wicked. The phrase is used in four verses of the Book of Revelation. Such a lake also appears in Plato's \"Phaedo\", explicitly identified with Tartarus, where the souls of the wicked are tormented until it is time for them to be reborn, and where some souls are left forever.\n\nThe image was also used by the Early Christian Hippolytus of Rome in about the year 200 and has continued to be used by modern Christians. Related is Jewish Gehenna which, among other things, like hell, is a valley near Jerusalem where trash was burned.\n\nRichard H. Wilkinson has written:\nAn image in the Papyrus of Ani (ca. 1250 BC), a version of the Book of the Dead, has been described as follows:\n\nThe 1995 edition of the International Standard Bible Encyclopedia says that the Egyptian lake of fire is too remote to be relevant to the use of \"lake of fire\" in the Book of Revelation.\n\n has Jesus himself use the image of a punishing unquenchable fire: \"If your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter into life maimed than with two hands to go into Gehenna, into the unquenchable fire.\" [New American Bible, Revised Edition]\n\nThe Book of Revelation, written some time in the last half of the first century AD, has five verses that mention a \"lake of fire\":\n\nA commonly accepted and traditional interpretation is that the \"lake of fire\" and the \"second death\" are symbolic of eternal pain, pain of loss and perhaps pain of the senses, as punishment for wickedness.\n\nJehovah's Witnesses interpret the \"lake of fire\" and \"second death\" of the Book of Revelation as referring to a complete and definitive annihilation of those cast into it.\n\nSeventh-day Adventists believe in annihilation as well. They too believe that the lake of fire passage is referring to extinction, not to an eternal place of torment as understood in the mainstream Protestant interpretation.\n\nMembers of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and other churches within the Latter Day Saint Movement read of a concept of the \"lake of fire\" in the Book of Mormon, in several passages of the record. The most descriptive instance of a \"lake of fire\" in the Book of Mormon occurs in Jacob 6:10, which reads, \"Ye must go away into that lake of fire and brimstone, whose flames are unquenchable, and whose smoke ascendeth up forever and ever, which lake of fire and brimstone is endless torment.\" The Book of Mormon also refers to the lake of fire as a state of second death or spiritual death, where there is no hope for redemption or salvation.\n\nHippolytus of Rome (d. 235) pictured Hades, the abode of the dead, as containing \"a lake of unquenchable fire\" at the edge of which the unrighteous \"shudder in horror at the expectation of the future judgment, (as if they were) already feeling the power of their punishment\".\n\nThe third-century writing explicitly pictures the \"lake of unquenchable fire\" as the eternal destiny of the unrighteous, who, while awaiting execution of the judgement upon them, are tortured in the abode of the dead (Hades) by the vision of their doom.\n\nThe Catholic Portuguese visionary Lúcia Santos reported that the Virgin Mary (Our Lady of Fatima) had given her a vision of Hell as a sea of fire:\n\nEarly Christian Universalists, most notably Origen of Alexandria (c. 184–c. 253), and Gregory of Nyssa (c. 335–c. 395), understood the lake of fire as a symbolic purifying fire used to eliminate the dross from the gold, aka a \"refiner's crucible\". Origin refers to the \"lead of wickedness\" that must be refined out of the gold. Origen obtained his Universalist views, known then as apocatastasis, from his mentor Clement of Alexandria (c. 150–c. 215), who was a student of Pantaenus.\n\nIn the view of Origen,\n\n19th-century scholar Charles Bigg summarized Origen's view as, \"Slowly yet certainly the blessed change must come, the purifying fire must eat up the dross and leave the pure gold. One by one we shall enter into rest, never to stray again. Then when death, the last enemy, is destroyed, when the tale of his children is complete, Christ will 'drink wine in the kingdom of his Father.' This is the end, when 'all shall be one, as Christ and the Father are one,' when 'God shall be all in all.'\"\n\nIn the view of Gregory of Nyssa, \"when death approaches to life, and darkness to light, and the corruptible to the incorruptible, the inferior is done away with and reduced to non-existence, and the thing purged is benefited, just as the dross is purged from gold by fire.\"\n\nFurther evidence that corroborates their understanding that the Lake of fire is a \"refiner's crucible\" is that the Greek word commonly translated as \"lake\" also refers to something small, like a pond or a \"pool\", as translated in the New American Bible (NABRE).\n\nAlso, the added detail of \"sulfur\" in the lake of fire is related to an ancient gold refining technique. Gold refining by sulphurization, also related to Gold parting, is described in detail by ancient writers. When unwanted metals, such as lead and copper, are heated in the presence of sulfur, the chemical reaction reduces the unwanted metals into sulfides, such as Lead(II) sulfide and Copper(I) sulfide. Since sulfur is a much lighter element, atomic number 16 on periodic table, the new sulfide molecules easily float to the top of the crucible as dross. Sulfur is also part of the smelting process related to silver and gold and other metal ores and naturally occurs in these ores.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "430803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430803", "title": "List of choking deaths", "text": "List of choking deaths\n\nThis is a list of notable people who have died by choking.\n\n"}
{"id": "63507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63507", "title": "Lists of cemeteries", "text": "Lists of cemeteries\n\nThese lists of cemeteries compile notable cemeteries, mausoleums, and other places people are buried worldwide. Reasons for notability include their design, their history, and their interments.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nShah-i-Zinda(شاه زنده in Persian meaning \"The Living King\") is one of the world-known necropolises of Central Asia, which is situated in the northeastern part of Samarkand.\nThe Shah-i-Zinda Ensemble includes mausoleums and other ritual buildings of 9-14th and 19th centuries.\n\n\n\n\nSarajevo\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53701159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53701159", "title": "Lorraine Bunton", "text": "Lorraine Bunton\n\nLorraine Bunton was a pitcher who played in the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League. She batted and threw right-handed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "187765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187765", "title": "Louis III of France", "text": "Louis III of France\n\nLouis III (863/65 – 5 August 882) was the king of West Francia from 879 until his death in 882. The eldest son of king Louis the Stammerer and his first wife Ansgarde of Burgundy, he succeeded his father and ruled jointly with his younger brother Carloman II, who became sole ruler after Louis's death. Louis's short reign was marked by military success.\n\nLouis was born while his father was King of Aquitaine and his grandfather Charles the Bald was ruling West Francia. Some doubts were raised about his legitimacy, since his parents had married secretly and Ansgarde was later repudiated at Charles' insistence. When Charles died in 877 and then Louis the Stammerer died two years later, some Frankish nobles advocated electing Louis as the sole king, but another party favoured each brother ruling a separate part of the kingdom. In September 879 Louis was crowned at Ferrières Abbey. In March 880 at Amiens the brothers divided their father's kingdom, Louis receiving the northern part, called Neustria or sometimes simply Francia.\nDuke Boso, one of Charles the Bald's most trusted lieutenants renounced his allegiance to both brothers and was elected King of Provence. In the summer of 880 Carloman II and Louis III marched against him and captured Mâcon and the northern part of Boso's kingdom. They united their forces with those of their cousin Charles the Fat, then ruling East Francia and Kingdom of Italy, and unsuccessfully besieged Vienne from August to November. In 881 Louis III achieved a momentous victory against Viking raiders, whose invasions had been ongoing since his grandfather's reign, at the Battle of Saucourt-en-Vimeu. Within a year of the battle an anonymous poet celebrated it and the king, for both his prowess and piety in a short poem \"Ludwigslied\" composed in the Old High German.\n\nLouis III died on 5 August 882, aged around 18, at Saint-Denis in the centre of his realm. Whilst mounting his horse to pursue a girl who was running to seek refuge in her father´s house he hit his head on the lintel of a low door and fell, fracturing his skull. Since he had no children, his brother Carloman II became the sole king of West Francia and the victor of Saucourt was buried in the royal mausoleum of the Basilica of St Denis.\n\n"}
{"id": "23948765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23948765", "title": "Malik Akhmedilov", "text": "Malik Akhmedilov\n\nMalik Akhmedilov (; c. 1976 – 11 August 2009), also known as Abdulmalik Akhmedilov, was a Russian investigative journalist based in the southern Republic of Dagestan.\n\nAkhmedilov was a leading investigative correspondent for the Avar language daily newspaper, \"Hakikat\" (ХIакъикъат, also transliterated as \"Khakikat\"), which translates to \"The Truth\" in English. He also worked as the editor-in-chief of the political monthly, \"Sogratl\" (Согратль), which translates as \"Mountain Village\". \"Sogratl\" focuses on political issues and civics.\n\nAkhmedilov was known for his reports on several unsolved assassinations of officials in Dagestan. In columns in \"Hakikat\", Akhmedilov heavily criticized Russian federal forces and local law enforcement for curbing religious and political freedom under the guise of an \"anti-extremism\" campaign.\n\nAkhmedilov was awarded an Internationale Parliaments-Stipendium Fellowship through the German Parliament in 2006 and served as an aide to Margrit Wetzel (SPD).\n\nAkhmedilov was found shot to death in a car on the edge of the Dagestani capital, Makhachkala, on 11 August 2009. He was 33 years old at the time of his murder. Police believed that Akhmedilov was shot at close range with a pistol, although independent sources have claimed he was shot with a Winchester Rifle. According to the same source, eyewitnesses assert that the shots were made by unknown persons who got out of a \"Zhiguli\" car without number plates and tinted glasses. They have also stated that had seen the car for several days near the journalist's house.\n\nThe killing of Akhmedilov came after a string of murders of reporters and journalists in Dagestan including that of television journalist Abdulla Alishayev in September 2008. Two more Dagestani journalists were killed in March 2009.\n"}
{"id": "256535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=256535", "title": "Mariano Arista", "text": "Mariano Arista\n\nJosé Mariano Martín Buenaventura Ignacio Nepomuceno García de Arista Nuez (26 July 1802 – 7 August 1855) was a noted veteran of many of Mexico's nineteenth-century wars. He served as president of Mexico from 15 January 1851 to 6 January 1853.\n\nHe was born in the state of San Luis Potosí in colonial New Spain. Originally an officer in the Spanish Army, Arista later joined the revolutionary army of Agustín de Iturbide. Later, he served under Antonio López de Santa Anna, Mexico's on-again/off-again dictator during the attempt to put down the 1836 Texas Revolution.\n\nIn 1846, Arista was given command of the Army of the North and sent to expel American troops from territory claimed by Mexico in Texas. The resulting engagement ignited the bloody Mexican–American War of 1846–1848. Arista was in command of Mexican forces during the Battle of Palo Alto and the Battle of Resaca de la Palma.\n\nPersonally quite brave, Arista was a dedicated republican – a member of Mexico's liberal faction, and therefore the natural enemy of his largely conservative general staff. At both the Battles of Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma, Arista was ill-served by the political division among his staff.\n\nAfter Resaca de la Palma, Mexico's government recalled Arista, and he was removed from command. He requested a court-martial and was absolved of guilt for the defeats at Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma. Arista spent the rest of the war as a functionary, seeing little combat.\n\nIn 1851, Arista succeeded José Joaquín de Herrera as president of Mexico. He sought to bring fiscal stability to the nation. Conservative resistance to Arista's rule and an eventual revolt by the conservatives led to his 1853 resignation and exile.\n\nHe died on board the English steamer \"Tagus\" while traveling from Lisbon, Portugal, to France on 7 August 1855. In 1880, his remains were returned to Mexico, where the Liberal faction named him a national hero.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2242541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2242541", "title": "Mariano Roque Alonso", "text": "Mariano Roque Alonso\n\nMariano Roque Alonso Romero (1792–1853) was President of the Provisional Junta of Paraguay from 9 February 1841 to 14 March 1841. On 14 March 1841 he established a government ruling jointly with Carlos Antonio López and they both styled themselves \"consuls of the republic\". After three years of this arrangement, on 13 March 1844, Roque Alonzo resigned and López became the sole ruler of the country.\n"}
{"id": "18940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18940", "title": "Meat", "text": "Meat\n\nMeat is animal flesh that is eaten as food. Humans have hunted and killed animals for meat since prehistoric times. The advent of civilization allowed the domestication of animals such as chickens, sheep, rabbits, pigs and cattle. This eventually led to their use in meat production on an industrial scale with the aid of slaughterhouses.\n\nMeat is mainly composed of water, protein, and fat. It is edible raw, but is normally eaten after it has been cooked and seasoned or processed in a variety of ways. Unprocessed meat will spoil or rot within hours or days as a result of infection with and decomposition by bacteria and fungi.\n\nMeat is important in economy and culture, even though its mass production and consumption has been determined to pose risks for human health and the environment. Many religions have rules about which meat may or may not be eaten, and vegetarian people abstain from eating meat because of concerns about the ethics of eating meat or about the effects of meat production or consumption.\n\nThe word \"meat\" comes from the Old English word \"mete\", which referred to food in general. The term is related to \"mad\" in Danish, \"mat\" in Swedish and Norwegian, and \"matur\" in Icelandic and Faroese, which also mean 'food'. The word \"mete\" also exists in Old Frisian (and to a lesser extent, modern West Frisian) to denote important food, differentiating it from \"swiets\" (sweets) and \"dierfied\" (animal feed).\n\nMost often, \"meat\" refers to skeletal muscle and associated fat and other tissues, but it may also describe other edible tissues such as offal. \"Meat\" is sometimes also used in a more restrictive sense to mean the flesh of mammalian species (pigs, cattle, lambs, etc.) raised and prepared for human consumption, to the exclusion of fish, other seafood, insects, poultry, or other animals. \n\nIn the context of food, \"meat\" can also refer to \"the edible part of something as distinguished from its covering (such as a husk or shell)\", for example, \"coconut meat\".\n\nPaleontological evidence suggests that meat constituted a substantial proportion of the diet of even the earliest humans. Early hunter-gatherers depended on the organized hunting of large animals such as bison and deer.\n\nThe domestication of animals, of which we have evidence dating back to the end of the last glacial period (c. 10,000 BCE), allowed the systematic production of meat and the breeding of animals with a view to improving meat production. The animals which are now the principal sources of meat were domesticated in conjunction with the development of early civilizations:\n\n\nOther animals are or have been raised or hunted for their flesh. The type of meat consumed varies much between different cultures, changes over time, depending on factors such as tradition and the availability of the animals. The amount and kind of meat consumed also varies by income, both between countries and within a given country.\n\nModern agriculture employs a number of techniques, such as progeny testing, to speed artificial selection by breeding animals to rapidly acquire the qualities desired by meat producers. For instance, in the wake of well-publicised health concerns associated with saturated fats in the 1980s, the fat content of United Kingdom beef, pork and lamb fell from 20–26 percent to 4–8 percent within a few decades, due to both selective breeding for leanness and changed methods of butchery. Methods of genetic engineering aimed at improving the meat production qualities of animals are now also becoming available.\nEven though it is a very old industry, meat production continues to be shaped strongly by the evolving demands of customers. The trend towards selling meat in pre-packaged cuts has increased the demand for larger breeds of cattle, which are better suited to producing such cuts. Even more animals not previously exploited for their meat are now being farmed, especially the more agile and mobile species, whose muscles tend to be developed better than those of cattle, sheep or pigs. Examples are the various antelope species, the zebra, water buffalo and camel, as well as non-mammals, such as the crocodile, emu and ostrich. Another important trend in contemporary meat production is organic farming which, while providing no organoleptic benefit to meat so produced, meets an increasing demand for organic meat.\n\nFor most of human history, meat was a largely unquestioned part of the human diet. Only in the 20th century did it begin to become a topic of discourse and contention in society, politics and wider culture.\n\nThe founders of Western philosophy disagreed about the ethics of eating meat. Plato's \"Republic\" has Socrates describe the ideal state as vegetarian. Pythagoras believed that humans and animals were equal and therefore disapproved of meat consumption, as did Plutarch, whereas Zeno and Epicurus were vegetarian but allowed meat-eating in their philosophy. Conversely, Aristotle's \"Politics\" assert that animals, as inferior beings, exist to serve humans, including as food. Augustine drew on Aristotle to argue that the universe's natural hierarchy allows humans to eat animals, and animals to eat plants. Enlightenment philosophers were likewise divided. Descartes wrote that animals are merely animated machines, and Kant considered them inferior beings for lack of discernment; means rather than ends. But Voltaire and Rousseau disagreed. The latter argued that meat-eating is a social rather than a natural act, because children aren't interested in meat.\n\nLater philosophers examined the changing practices of eating meat in the modern age as part of a process of detachment from animals as living beings. Norbert Elias, for instance, noted that in medieval times cooked animals were brought to the table whole, but that since the Renaissance only the edible parts are served, which are no longer recognizably part of an animal. Modern eaters, according to , demand an \"ellipsis\" between meat and dead animals; for instance, calves' eyes are no longer considered a delicacy as in the Middle Ages, but provoke disgust. Even in the English language, distinctions emerged between animals and their meat, such as between cattle and beef, pigs and pork. Fernand Braudel wrote that since the European diet of the 15th and 16th century was particularly heavy in meat, European colonialism helped export meat-eating across the globe, as colonized peoples took up the culinary habits of their colonizers, which they associated with wealth and power.\n\nUnlike most other food, meat is not perceived as gender-neutral, and is particularly associated with men and masculinity. Sociological research, ranging from African tribal societies to contemporary barbecues, indicates that men are much more likely to participate in preparing meat than other food. This has been attributed to the influence of traditional male gender roles, in view of the \"male familiarity with killing animals and even humans\" (Goody) or the \"violent\" nature of roasting as opposed to boiling (Lévi-Strauss). By and large, at least in modern societies, men also tend to consume more meat than women, and men often prefer red meat whereas women tend to prefer chicken and fish.\n\nMeat consumption varies worldwide, depending on cultural or religious preferences, as well as economic conditions. Vegetarians choose not to eat meat because of ethical, economic, environmental, religious or health concerns that are associated with meat production and consumption.\n\nAccording to the analysis of the FAO the overall consumption for white meat between 1990 and 2009 has dramatically increased. For example, poultry meat has increased by 76.6% per kilo per capita and pig meat by 19.7%. However, on the contrary, bovine meat has decreased from /capita in 1990 to /capita in 2009.\n\nAgricultural science has identified several factors bearing on the growth and development of meat in animals.\n\nSeveral economically important traits in meat animals are heritable to some degree (see the adjacent table) and can thus be selected for by animal breeding. In cattle, certain growth features are controlled by recessive genes which have not so far been controlled, complicating breeding. One such trait is dwarfism; another is the doppelender or \"double muscling\" condition, which causes muscle hypertrophy and thereby increases the animal's commercial value. Genetic analysis continues to reveal the genetic mechanisms that control numerous aspects of the endocrine system and, through it, meat growth and quality.\n\nGenetic engineering techniques can shorten breeding programs significantly because they allow for the identification and isolation of genes coding for desired traits, and for the reincorporation of these genes into the animal genome. To enable such manipulation, research is ongoing () to map the entire genome of sheep, cattle and pigs. Some research has already seen commercial application. For instance, a recombinant bacterium has been developed which improves the digestion of grass in the rumen of cattle, and some specific features of muscle fibres have been genetically altered.\n\nExperimental reproductive cloning of commercially important meat animals such as sheep, pig or cattle has been successful. The multiple asexual reproduction of animals bearing desirable traits can thus be anticipated, although this is not yet practical on a commercial scale.\n\nHeat regulation in livestock is of great economic significance, because mammals attempt to maintain a constant optimal body temperature. Low temperatures tend to prolong animal development and high temperatures tend to retard it. Depending on their size, body shape and insulation through tissue and fur, some animals have a relatively narrow zone of temperature tolerance and others (e.g. cattle) a broad one. Static magnetic fields, for reasons still unknown, also retard animal development.\n\nThe quality and quantity of usable meat depends on the animal's \"plane of nutrition\", i.e., whether it is over- or underfed. Scientists disagree, however, about how exactly the plane of nutrition influences carcase composition.\n\nThe composition of the diet, especially the amount of protein provided, is also an important factor regulating animal growth. Ruminants, which may digest cellulose, are better adapted to poor-quality diets, but their ruminal microorganisms degrade high-quality protein if supplied in excess. Because producing high-quality protein animal feed is expensive (see also \"Environmental impact\" below), several techniques are employed or experimented with to ensure maximum utilization of protein. These include the treatment of feed with formalin to protect amino acids during their passage through the rumen, the recycling of manure by feeding it back to cattle mixed with feed concentrates, or the partial conversion of petroleum hydrocarbons to protein through microbial action.\n\nIn plant feed, environmental factors influence the availability of crucial nutrients or micronutrients, a lack or excess of which can cause a great many ailments. In Australia, for instance, where the soil contains limited phosphate, cattle are being fed additional phosphate to increase the efficiency of beef production. Also in Australia, cattle and sheep in certain areas were often found losing their appetite and dying in the midst of rich pasture; this was at length found to be a result of cobalt deficiency in the soil. Plant toxins are also a risk to grazing animals; for instance, sodium fluoroacetate, found in some African and Australian plants, kills by disrupting the cellular metabolism. Certain man-made pollutants such as methylmercury and some pesticide residues present a particular hazard due to their tendency to bioaccumulate in meat, potentially poisoning consumers.\n\nMeat producers may seek to improve the fertility of female animals through the administration of gonadotrophic or ovulation-inducing hormones. In pig production, sow infertility is a common problem — possibly due to excessive fatness. No methods currently exist to augment the fertility of male animals. Artificial insemination is now routinely used to produce animals of the best possible genetic quality, and the efficiency of this method is improved through the administration of hormones that synchronize the ovulation cycles within groups of females.\n\nGrowth hormones, particularly anabolic agents such as steroids, are used in some countries to accelerate muscle growth in animals. This practice has given rise to the beef hormone controversy, an international trade dispute. It may also decrease the tenderness of meat, although research on this is inconclusive, and have other effects on the composition of the muscle flesh. Where castration is used to improve control over male animals, its side effects are also counteracted by the administration of hormones.\n\nSedatives may be administered to animals to counteract stress factors and increase weight gain. The feeding of antibiotics to certain animals has been shown to improve growth rates also. This practice is particularly prevalent in the USA, but has been banned in the EU, partly because it causes antimicrobial resistance in pathogenic microorganisms.\n\nNumerous aspects of the biochemical composition of meat vary in complex ways depending on the species, breed, sex, age, plane of nutrition, training and exercise of the animal, as well as on the anatomical location of the musculature involved. Even between animals of the same litter and sex there are considerable differences in such parameters as the percentage of intramuscular fat.\n\nAdult mammalian muscle flesh consists of roughly 75 percent water, 19 percent protein, 2.5 percent intramuscular fat, 1.2 percent carbohydrates and 2.3 percent other soluble non-protein substances. These include nitrogenous compounds, such as amino acids, and inorganic substances such as minerals.\n\nMuscle proteins are either soluble in water (sarcoplasmic proteins, about 11.5 percent of total muscle mass) or in concentrated salt solutions (myofibrillar proteins, about 5.5 percent of mass). There are several hundred sarcoplasmic proteins. Most of them – the glycolytic enzymes – are involved in the glycolytic pathway, i.e., the conversion of stored energy into muscle power. The two most abundant myofibrillar proteins, myosin and actin, are responsible for the muscle's overall structure. The remaining protein mass consists of connective tissue (collagen and elastin) as well as organelle tissue.\n\nFat in meat can be either adipose tissue, used by the animal to store energy and consisting of \"true fats\" (esters of glycerol with fatty acids), or intramuscular fat, which contains considerable quantities of phospholipids and of unsaponifiable constituents such as cholesterol.\n\nMeat can be broadly classified as \"red\" or \"white\" depending on the concentration of myoglobin in muscle fibre. When myoglobin is exposed to oxygen, reddish oxymyoglobin develops, making myoglobin-rich meat appear red. The redness of meat depends on species, animal age, and fibre type: Red meat contains more narrow muscle fibres that tend to operate over long periods without rest, while white meat contains more broad fibres that tend to work in short fast bursts.\n\nGenerally, the meat of adult mammals such as cows, sheep, and horses is considered red, while chicken and turkey breast meat is considered white.\n\nAll muscle tissue is very high in protein, containing all of the essential amino acids, and in most cases is a good source of zinc, vitamin B, selenium, phosphorus, niacin, vitamin B, choline, riboflavin and iron. Several forms of meat are also high in vitamin K. Muscle tissue is very low in carbohydrates and does not contain dietary fiber. While taste quality may vary between meats, the proteins, vitamins, and minerals available from meats are generally consistent.\n\nThe fat content of meat can vary widely depending on the species and breed of animal, the way in which the animal was raised, including what it was fed, the anatomical part of the body, and the methods of butchering and cooking. Wild animals such as deer are typically leaner than farm animals, leading those concerned about fat content to choose game such as venison. Decades of breeding meat animals for fatness is being reversed by consumer demand for meat with less fat. The fatty deposits that exist with the muscle fibers in meats soften meat when it is cooked and improve the flavor through chemical changes initiated through heat that allow the protein and fat molecules to interact. The fat, when cooked with meat, also makes the meat seem juicier. However, the nutritional contribution of the fat is mainly calories as opposed to protein. As fat content rises, the meat's contribution to nutrition declines. In addition, there is cholesterol associated with fat surrounding the meat. The cholesterol is a lipid associated with the kind of saturated fat found in meat. The increase in meat consumption after 1960 is associated with, though not definitively the cause of, significant imbalances of fat and cholesterol in the human diet.\n\nThe table in this section compares the nutritional content of several types of meat. While each kind of meat has about the same content of protein and carbohydrates, there is a very wide range of fat content.\n\nMeat is produced by killing an animal and cutting flesh out of it. These procedures are called slaughter and butchery, respectively. There is ongoing research into producing meat \"in vitro\", that is, outside of animals.\n\nUpon reaching a predetermined age or weight, livestock are usually transported \"en masse\" to the slaughterhouse. Depending on its length and circumstances, this may exert stress and injuries on the animals, and some may die \"en route\". Unnecessary stress in transport may adversely affect the quality of the meat. In particular, the muscles of stressed animals are low in water and glycogen, and their pH fails to attain acidic values, all of which results in poor meat quality. Consequently, and also due to campaigning by animal welfare groups, laws and industry practices in several countries tend to become more restrictive with respect to the duration and other circumstances of livestock transports.\n\nAnimals are usually slaughtered by being first stunned and then exsanguinated (bled out). Death results from the one or the other procedure, depending on the methods employed. Stunning can be effected through asphyxiating the animals with carbon dioxide, shooting them with a gun or a captive bolt pistol, or shocking them with electric current. In most forms of ritual slaughter, stunning is not allowed.\n\nDraining as much blood as possible from the carcass is necessary because blood causes the meat to have an unappealing appearance and is a breeding ground for microorganisms. The exsanguination is accomplished by severing the carotid artery and the jugular vein in cattle and sheep, and the anterior vena cava in pigs.\n\nAfter exsanguination, the carcass is dressed; that is, the head, feet, hide (except hogs and some veal), excess fat, viscera and offal are removed, leaving only bones and edible muscle. Cattle and pig carcases, but not those\nof sheep, are then split in half along the mid ventral axis, and the carcase is cut into wholesale pieces. The dressing and cutting sequence, long a province of manual labor, is progressively being fully automated.\n\nUnder hygienic conditions and without other treatment, meat can be stored at above its freezing point (–1.5 °C) for about six weeks without spoilage, during which time it undergoes an aging process that increases its tenderness and flavor.\n\nDuring the first day after death, glycolysis continues until the accumulation of lactic acid causes the pH to reach about 5.5. The remaining glycogen, about 18 g per kg, is believed to increase the water-holding capacity and tenderness of the flesh when cooked. \"Rigor mortis\" sets in a few hours after death as ATP is used up, causing actin and myosin to combine into rigid actomyosin and lowering the meat's water-holding capacity, causing it to lose water (\"weep\"). In muscles that enter \"rigor\" in a contracted position, actin and myosin filaments overlap and cross-bond, resulting in meat that is tough on cooking – hence again the need to prevent pre-slaughter stress in the animal.\n\nOver time, the muscle proteins denature in varying degree, with the exception of the collagen and elastin of connective tissue, and \"rigor mortis\" resolves. Because of these changes, the meat is tender and pliable when cooked just after death or after the resolution of \"rigor\", but tough when cooked during \"rigor.\" As the muscle pigment myoglobin denatures, its iron oxidates, which may cause a brown discoloration near the surface of the meat. Ongoing proteolysis also contributes to conditioning. Hypoxanthine, a breakdown product of ATP, contributes to the meat's flavor and odor, as do other products of the decomposition of muscle fat and protein.\n\nWhen meat is industrially processed in preparation of consumption, it may be enriched with additives to protect or modify its flavor or color, to improve its tenderness, juiciness or cohesiveness, or to aid with its preservation. Meat additives include the following:\n\nWith the rise of complex supply chains, including cold chains, in developed economies, the distance between the farmer or fisherman and customer has grown, increasing the possibility for intentional and unintentional misidentification of meat at various points in the supply chain.\n\nIn 2013, reports emerged across Europe that products labelled as containing beef actually contained horse meat. In February 2013 a study was published showing that about one-third of raw fish are misidentified across the United States.\n\nVarious forms of imitation meat have been created for people who wish not to eat meat but still want to taste its flavor and texture. Meat imitates are typically some form of processed soybean (tofu, tempeh), but they can also be based on wheat gluten, pea protein isolate, or even fungi (quorn).\n\nVarious environmental effects are associated with meat production. Among these are greenhouse gas emissions, fossil energy use, water use, water quality changes, and effects on grazed ecosystems.\n\nThe livestock sector may be the largest source of water pollution (due to animal wastes, fertilizers, pesticides), and it contributes to emergence of antibiotic resistance. It accounts for over 8% of global human water use. It is by far the biggest cause of land use, as it accounts for nearly 40% of the global land surface. It is a significant driver of biodiversity loss, as it causes deforestation, ocean dead zones, land degradation, pollution, and overfishing.\n\nThe occurrence, nature and significance of environmental effects varies among livestock production systems. Grazing of livestock can be beneficial for some wildlife species, but not for others. Targeted grazing of livestock is used as a food-producing alternative to herbicide use in some vegetation management.\n\nMeat production is responsible for 14.5% and possibly up to 51% of the world's anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. However, greenhouse gas emission depends on the economy and country: animal products (meat, fish, and dairy) account for 22%, 65%, and 70% of emissions in the diets of lower-middle–, upper-middle–, and high-income nations, respectively. Some nations show very different impacts to counterparts within the same group, with Brazil and Australia having emissions over 200% higher than the average of their respective income groups and driven by meat consumption.\n\nAccording to a report produced by United Nations Environment Programme's (UNEP) international panel for sustainable resource management, a worldwide transition in the direction of a meat and dairy free diet is indispensable if adverse global climate change were to be prevented.\n\nMeat consumption is considered one of the primary contributors of the sixth mass extinction. A 2017 study by the World Wildlife Fund found that 60% of global biodiversity loss is attributable to meat-based diets, in particular from the vast scale of feed crop cultivation needed to rear tens of billions of farm animals for human consumption puts an enormous strain on natural resources resulting in a wide-scale loss of lands and species. Currently, livestock make up 60% of the biomass of all mammals on earth, followed by humans (36%) and wild mammals (4%). In November 2017, 15,364 world scientists signed a Warning to Humanity calling for, among other things, drastically diminishing our per capita consumption of meat and \"dietary shifts towards mostly plant-based foods\".\n\nA July 2018 study in \"Science\" says that meat consumption is set to rise as the human population increases along with affluence, which will increase greenhouse gas emissions and further reduce biodiversity.\n\nMeat-producing livestock can provide environmental benefits through waste reduction, e.g. conversion of human-inedible residues of food crops. Manure from meat-producing livestock is used as fertilizer; it may be composted before application to food crops. Substitution of animal manures for synthetic fertilizers in crop production can be environmentally significant, as between 43 and 88 MJ of fossil fuel energy are used per kg of nitrogen in manufacture of synthetic nitrogenous fertilizers.\n\nThe spoilage of meat occurs, if untreated, in a matter of hours or days and results in the meat becoming unappetizing, poisonous or infectious. Spoilage is caused by the practically unavoidable infection and subsequent decomposition of meat by bacteria and fungi, which are borne by the animal itself, by the people handling the meat, and by their implements. Meat can be kept edible for a much longer time – though not indefinitely – if proper hygiene is observed during production and processing, and if appropriate food safety, food preservation and food storage procedures are applied. Without the application of preservatives and stabilizers, the fats in meat may also begin to rapidly decompose after cooking or processing, leading to an objectionable taste known as warmed over flavor.\n\nFresh meat can be cooked for immediate consumption, or be processed, that is, treated for longer-term preservation and later consumption, possibly after further preparation. Fresh meat cuts or processed cuts may produce iridescence, commonly thought to be due to spoilage but actually caused structural coloration and diffraction of the light. A common additive to processed meats, both for preservation and because it prevents discoloring, is sodium nitrite, which, however, is also a source of health concerns, because it may form carcinogenic nitrosamines when heated.\n\nMeat is prepared in many ways, as steaks, in stews, fondue, or as dried meat like beef jerky. It may be ground then formed into patties (as hamburgers or croquettes), loaves, or sausages, or used in loose form (as in \"sloppy joe\" or Bolognese sauce).\n\nSome meat is cured by smoking, which is the process of flavoring, cooking, or preserving food by exposing it to the smoke from burning or smoldering plant materials, most often wood. In Europe, alder is the traditional smoking wood, but oak is more often used now, and beech to a lesser extent. In North America, hickory, mesquite, oak, pecan, alder, maple, and fruit-tree woods are commonly used for smoking. Meat can also be cured by pickling, preserving in salt or brine (see salted meat and other curing methods). Other kinds of meat are marinated and barbecued, or simply boiled, roasted, or fried.\n\nMeat is generally eaten cooked, but many recipes call for raw beef, veal or fish (tartare). Steak tartare is a meat dish made from finely chopped or minced raw beef or horse meat. Meat is often spiced or seasoned, particularly with meat products such as sausages. Meat dishes are usually described by their source (animal and part of body) and method of preparation (e.g., a beef rib).\n\nMeat is a typical base for making sandwiches. Popular varieties of sandwich meat include ham, pork, salami and other sausages, and beef, such as steak, roast beef, corned beef, pepperoni, and pastrami. Meat can also be molded or pressed (common for products that include offal, such as haggis and scrapple) and canned.\n\nA study of 400,000 subjects conducted by the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition and published in 2013 showed \"a moderate positive association between processed meat consumption and mortality, in particular due to cardiovascular diseases, but also to cancer.\"\n\nA 1999 metastudy combined data from five studies from western countries. The metastudy reported mortality ratios, where lower numbers indicated fewer deaths, for fish eaters to be 0.82, vegetarians to be 0.84, occasional meat eaters to be 0.84. Regular meat eaters and vegans shared the highest mortality ratio of 1.00.\n\nIn response to changing prices as well as health concerns about saturated fat and cholesterol, consumers have altered their consumption of various meats. A USDA report points out that consumption of beef in the United States between 1970–1974 and 1990–1994 dropped by 21%, while consumption of chicken increased by 90%. During the same period of time, the price of chicken dropped by 14% relative to the price of beef. In 1995 and 1996, beef consumption increased due to higher supplies and lower prices.\n\nThe \"2015–2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans\" asked men and teenage boys to increase their consumption of vegetables or other underconsumed foods because they eat too much protein.\n\nVarious toxic compounds can contaminate meat, including heavy metals, mycotoxins, pesticide residues, and polyaromatic hydrocarbons. Often, these compounds are not very dangerous themselves but can be metabolized in the body to form harmful by-products, so any actual toxicological effects may depend on the individual genome, diet, and history of the consumer.\n\nMeat and meat products may contain substances such as dioxins, polychlorinated biphenyl (PCBs), and cooked meat may contain carcinogens, that are toxic to the consumer, although any chemical's toxicity is dependent on the dose and timing of exposure. Toxins may be introduced to meat as part of animal feed, as veterinary drug residues, or during processing and cooking.\n\nThere are concerns about the consumption of meat increasing the risk of cancer. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), a specialized agency of the World Health Organization (WHO), classified processed meat (e.g., bacon, ham, hot dogs, sausages) as, \"\"carcinogenic to humans\" (Group 1), based on \"sufficient evidence\" in humans that the consumption of processed meat causes colorectal cancer.\" IARC also classified red meat as \"\"probably carcinogenic to humans\" (Group 2A), based on \"limited evidence\" that the consumption of red meat causes cancer in humans and \"strong\" mechanistic evidence supporting a carcinogenic effect.\"\n\nThe correlation of consumption to increased risk of heart disease is controversial. Some studies fail to find a link between red meat consumption and heart disease (although the same study found statistically significant correlation between the consumption of processed meat and coronary heart disease), while another study, a survey, conducted in 1960, of 25,153 California Seventh-Day Adventists, found that the risk of heart disease is three times greater for 45- to 64-year-old men who eat meat daily, versus those who did not eat meat.\n\nA major Harvard University study in 2010 involving over one million people who ate meat found that only processed meat had an adverse risk in relation to coronary heart disease. The study suggests that eating 50 g (less than 2oz) of processed meat per day increases risk of coronary heart disease by 42%, and diabetes by 19%. Equivalent levels of fat, including saturated fats, in unprocessed meat (even when eating twice as much per day) did not show any deleterious effects, leading the researchers to suggest that \"differences in salt and preservatives, rather than fats, might explain the higher risk of heart disease and diabetes seen with processed meats, but not with unprocessed red meats.\"\n\nThe EPIC-PANACEA study, published in 2010 in the \"American Journal of Clinical Nutrition\" closely tracked 373,803 people over a period of 8 years across 10 countries. It concluded that meat consumption is positively associated with weight gain in men and women. The National Cattlemen's Beef Association countered by stating that meat consumption may not be associated with fat gain. In response, the authors of the original study controlled for just abdominal fat across a sample of 91,214 people and found that even when controlling for calories and lifestyle factors, meat consumption is linked with obesity. Additional studies and reviews have confirmed the finding that greater meat consumption is positively linked with greater weight gain even when controlling for calories, and lifestyle factors.\n\nA 2011 study by the Translational Genomics Research Institute showed that nearly half (47%) of the meat and poultry in U.S. grocery stores were contaminated with \"S. aureus\", with more than half (52%) of those bacteria resistant to antibiotics. A 2018 investigation by the Bureau of Investigative Journalism and \"The Guardian\" found that around 15 percent of the US population suffers from foodborne illnesses every year. The investigation also highlighted unsanitary conditions in US-based meat plants, which included meat products covered in excrement and abscesses \"filled with pus\".\n\nMeat can transmit certain diseases, but complete cooking and avoiding recontamination reduces this possibility.\n\nSeveral studies published since 1990 indicate that cooking muscle meat creates heterocyclic amines (HCAs), which are thought to increase cancer risk in humans. Researchers at the National Cancer Institute published results of a study which found that human subjects who ate beef rare or medium-rare had less than one third the risk of stomach cancer than those who ate beef medium-well or well-done. While eating muscle meat raw may be the only way to avoid HCAs fully, the National Cancer Institute states that cooking meat below creates \"negligible amounts\" of HCAs. Also, microwaving meat before cooking may reduce HCAs by 90%.\n\nNitrosamines, present in processed and cooked foods, have been noted as being carcinogenic, being linked to colon cancer. Also, toxic compounds called PAHs, or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, present in processed, smoked and cooked foods, are known to be carcinogenic.\n\nMeat is part of the human diet in most cultures, where it often has symbolic meaning and important social functions. Many people, however, choose not to eat meat (this is referred to as vegetarianism) or any food made from animals (veganism). The reasons for not eating all or some meat may include ethical objections to killing animals for food, health concerns, environmental concerns or religious dietary laws.\n\nEthical issues regarding the consumption of meat include objecting to the act of killing animals or to the agricultural practices used in meat production. Reasons for objecting to killing animals for consumption may include animal rights, environmental ethics, or an aversion to inflicting pain or harm on other sentient creatures. Some people, while not vegetarians, refuse to eat the flesh of certain animals (such as cows, pigs, cats, dogs, horses, or rabbits) due to cultural or religious traditions.\n\nSome people eat only the flesh of animals that they believe have not been mistreated, and abstain from the flesh of animals raised in factory farms or else abstain from particular products, such as foie gras and veal. \n\nSome techniques of intensive agriculture may be cruel to animals: foie gras is a food product made from the liver of ducks or geese that have been force fed corn to fatten the organ; veal is criticised because the veal calves may be highly restricted in movement, have unsuitable flooring, spend their entire lives indoors, experience prolonged deprivation (sensory, social, and exploratory), and be more susceptible to high amounts of stress and disease.\n\nThe religion of Jainism has always opposed eating meat, and there are also schools of Buddhism and Hinduism that condemn the eating of meat. Jewish dietary rules (\"Kashrut\") allow certain (\"kosher\") meat and forbid other (\"treif\"). The rules include prohibitions on the consumption of unclean animals (such as pork, shellfish including mollusca and crustacea, and most insects), and mixtures of meat and milk. Similar rules apply in Islamic dietary laws: The Quran explicitly forbids meat from animals that die naturally, blood, the meat of swine (porcine animals, pigs), and animals dedicated to other than Allah (either undedicated or dedicated to idols) which are haram as opposed to halal. Sikhism forbids meat of slowly slaughtered animals (\"kutha\") and prescribes killing animals with a single strike (\"jhatka\"), but some Sikh groups oppose eating any meat.\n\nResearch in applied psychology has investigated practices of meat eating in relation to morality, emotions, cognition, and personality characteristics. Psychological research suggests meat eating is correlated with masculinity, support for social hierarchy, and reduced openness to experience. Research into the consumer psychology of meat is relevant both to meat industry marketing and to advocates of reduced meat consumption.\n\n"}
{"id": "36207397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36207397", "title": "Meo Abbracciavacca", "text": "Meo Abbracciavacca\n\nMeo Abbracciavacca was an Italian poet from Pistoia who died in 1313. Dante Gabriel Rossetti translated two of Abbracciavacca's poems into English in his work titled \"The Early Italian Poets From Ciullo D'Alcamo to Dante Alighieri (1100-1200-1300)\": \"Canzone. He will be silent and watchful in his Love\" (translation of original Italian verse starting \"Madonna, vostra altera canoscenza\") and \"Ballatta. His Life is by Contraries\" (translation of verse starting \"Per lunga dimoranza\").\n\n\"<poem>\nMadonna, vostra altera canoscenza,\nE l'onorato bene,\nChe 'n voi convene tutto in piacimento,\nMise in voi servir sì la mia intenza,\nChe cura mai non tene,\nNè pur sovvene d'altro pensamento,\nE lo talento di ciò m'è lumera.\nCosì piacer mi trasse in voi, compita,\nD'ogni valor gradita,\nDi beltate e di gioia miradore, \nDove tuttore prendendo mainera\nL'altre valente donne di lor vita;\nPerciò non ho partita\nVoglia da intenza di star servidore.\n</poem>\"\n\n"}
{"id": "30299602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30299602", "title": "My Baby (series)", "text": "My Baby (series)\n\nMy Baby are a series of single-player virtual life simulation video games.\n\n\"My Baby Girl\" and \"My Baby Boy\" are Nintendo DS video games released in North America on November 4, 2008 and in Europe on November 28, 2008. The games teach players the skills of parenting (the player can choose to be a daddy or a mommy) and to the experience of raising a daughter or son in the months that they spend as an infant.\n\nThe player can choose a nationality for their child in addition to their eye color. Players must create a given name (up to eight letters) to his or her character before beginning the actual game. However, there is no need to insert either a middle name or a surname because of memory constraints.\n\nTwo developmental challenges (i.e., teaching the baby how to speak or teaching the baby how to crawl) must be passed before the baby is allowed to grow by one month. Using the microphone to expand the baby's vocabulary and the stylus to put on new clothes for them helps provide the challenges that new parents face with their infants every day. Babies must be given baby formula in a bottle and the game is similar to the Tamagotchi devices of the mid 1990s. There was originally an option to create a \"My Baby\" game combining two genders in one cartridge but the idea was funneled off into two different cartridges.\n\nOne of the other mandatory features of the game include flatulence, cooing, and the changing of the diaper when the baby urinates or has a bowel movement.\n\n\"My Baby First Steps\", known in Europe as \"My Baby 2\", is a video game for the Nintendo DS and Wii. The player's son or daughter has grown out of infancy and into toddlerhood. As a virtual parent, the player gets to control the character until he or she turns three years old (and approaches childhood). The baby will discover his or her entire environment, walk, babble, and even speak (saying either mommy or daddy depending on the gender of the player). Three-dimensional animations makes baby look more lifelike and an improved artificial intelligence makes the virtual baby act like the player's actual son or daughter. Babies will grow from a physical and a psychological view. The player can choose between having a boy or a girl in a single cartridge unlike the prequels.\n\nA shopping mall is introduced to purchases possessions for the baby and the home featuring generic clothing that doesn't have any fashion designer's name branded on them.\n\nThe game has a realistic nurse and pediatrician that teaches the player how to take care of their son or daughter.\n\n\"My Baby 3 & Friends\" is a 2010 Nintendo DS game developed by Dancing Dots and published by Majesco Entertainment. As a toddler, the player's son or daughter is exposed to activities like swimming, the swing set at the local playground, and even a playground slide for stimulation and development. Players are also expected to allow their babies to socialize with either another baby or with a puppy. The timeline of the baby's development starts the baby off at 15 months (1 year and three months) and ends it at 30 months (2 years and six months). Thirty new skills can be developed in a non-linear fashion; making the parenting aspects of the game more in tune with the child's actual development.\n\nIGN awarded \"My Baby Girl\" 5.0 out of 10 (equivalent to 50% or a F letter grade), finding the graphics to be adequate but criticized the slow pacing, underwhelming music, and lack of actual gaming content. An issue was raised with the nudity and urination, which the reviewer felt might be uncomfortable for non-parents.\n\n"}
{"id": "10506125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10506125", "title": "Najim Abd-Jasem", "text": "Najim Abd-Jasem\n\nNajim Abd-Jasem (died March 2007) was an Iraqi trade unionist who was murdered.\n\n"}
{"id": "861683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=861683", "title": "Nautiloid", "text": "Nautiloid\n\nNautiloids are a large and diverse group of marine cephalopods (Mollusca) belonging to the subclass Nautiloidea that began in the Late Cambrian and are represented today by the living \"Nautilus\" and \"Allonautilus\". Nautiloids flourished during the early Paleozoic era, where they constituted the main predatory animals, and developed an extraordinary diversity of shell shapes and forms. Some 2,500 species of fossil nautiloids are known, but only a handful of species survive to the present day.\n\nNautiloids are among the group of animals known as cephalopods, an advanced class of mollusks which also includes ammonoids, belemnites and modern coleoids such as octopus and squid. Other mollusks include gastropods, scaphopods and bivalves.\n\nTraditionally, the most common classification of the cephalopods has been a four-fold division (by Bather, 1888), into the Orthoceratoids, nautiloids, ammonoids, and coleoids. This article is about nautiloids in that broad sense, sometimes called Nautiloidea \"sensu lato\".\n\nCladistically speaking, nautiloids are a paraphyletic assemblage united by shared primitive (plesiomorphic) features not found in derived cephalopods. In other words, they are a grade group that is thought to have given rise to Orthoceratoids, ammonoids and coleoids, and are defined by the exclusion of those descendent groups. Both ammonoids and coleoids have traditionally been assumed to have descended from bactritids, which in turn arose from straight-shelled Orthoceratoids.\n\nThe ammonoids (a group which includes the ammonites and the goniatites) are extinct cousins of the nautiloids that evolved early in the Devonian period, some 400 million years ago.\n\nSome workers apply the name Nautiloidea to a more exclusive group, called Nautiloidea \"sensu stricto\". This taxon consists only of those orders that are clearly related to the modern nautilus. The membership assigned varies somewhat from author to author, but usually includes Tarphycerida, Oncocerida, and Nautilida.\n\nThe subclass nautiloidea, in the broad original sense, is distinguished by two main characteristics—simple concave septa, concave in the forward direction, that produce generally simple sutures, and a siphuncle in which the septal necks point to the rear (i.e. is retrosiphonate, throughout the ontogeny of the animal).\n\nThe septa between the chambers (camerae) of the phragmocone (the chambered part of the shell) are formed during growth spurts of the animal. At that time the rear of the mantle secretes a new septum adding another chamber while the more forward part adds onto the shell. The body of the animal, its viscera, continues to occupy the last chamber of the shell – the living chamber.\n\nThe septa are perforated by the siphuncle, which runs through each of the internal chambers of the shell. Surrounding the fleshy tube of the siphuncle are structures made of aragonite (a polymorph of calcium carbonate – which during fossilisation is often recrystalized to calcite, a more stable form of calcium carbonate [CaCO]): septal necks and connecting rings. Some of the earlier nautiloids deposited calcium carbonate in the empty chambers (called \"cameral deposits\") or within the siphuncle (\"endosiphuncular deposits\"), a process which may have been connected with controlling buoyancy. The nature of the siphuncle and its position within the shell are important in classifying nautiloids and can help distinguish them from ammonoids (the siphuncle is on the shell periphery in most ammonoids whereas it runs through the center of the chambers in most nautiloids).\n\nSutures (or suture lines) are visible as a series of narrow wavy lines on the surface of the shell, and they appear where each septum contacts the wall of the outer shell. The sutures of the nautiloids are simple in shape, being either straight or slightly curved. This is different from the \"zigzag\" sutures of the goniatites and the highly complex sutures of the ammonites.\n\nMuch of what is known about the extinct nautiloids is based on what we know about modern nautiluses, such as the chambered nautilus, which is found in the southwest Pacific Ocean from Samoa to the Philippines, and in the Indian Ocean off the coast of Australia. It is not usually found in waters less than 100 meters deep and may be found as far down as .\n\nNautili are free swimming animals that possess a head with two simple lens-free eyes and arms (or tentacles). They have a smooth shell over a large body chamber, which is divided into subchambers filled with an inert gas (similar to the composition of atmospheric air, but with more nitrogen and less oxygen) making the animal neutrally buoyant in the water. As many as 90 tentacles are arranged in two circles around the mouth. The animal is predatory, and has jaws which are horny and beak-like, allowing it to feed on crustaceans.\n\nEmpty nautilus shells may drift a considerable distance and have been reported from Japan, India and Africa. Undoubtedy the same applies to the shells of fossil nautiloids, the gas inside the shell keeping it buoyant for some time after the animal's death, allowing the empty shell to be carried some distance from where the animal lived before finally sinking to the seafloor.\n\nNautili propel themselves by jet propulsion, expelling water from an elongated funnel called the hyponome, which can be pointed in different directions to control their movement. Unlike the belemnites and other cephalopods, modern nautili do not have an ink sac, and there is no evidence to suggest that the extinct forms possessed one either. Furthermore, unlike the extinct ammonoids, the modern nautilus lacks an aptychus, or any sort of plate for closing its shell. With one exception, no such plate has been found in any of the extinct nautiloids either.\n\nThe coloration of the shell of the modern nautilus is quite prominent, and, although somewhat rarely, the shell coloration has been known to be preserved in fossil nautiloids. They often show color patterns only on the dorsal side, suggesting that the living animals swam horizontally.\n\nNautiloids are often found as fossils in early Palaeozoic rocks (less so in more recent strata). The shells of fossil nautiloids may be either straight (i.e., orthoconic as in \"Orthoceras\" and \"Rayonnoceras\"), curved (as in \"Cyrtoceras\") coiled (as in \"Cenoceras\"), or rarely a helical coil (as in \"Lorieroceras\"). Some species' shells—especially in the late Paleozoic and early Mesozoic—are ornamented with spines and ribs, but most have a smooth shell.\n\nThe shells are formed of aragonite, although the cameral deposits may consist of primary calcite.\n\nThe rocks of the Ordovician period in the Baltic coast and parts of the United States contain a variety of nautiloid fossils, and specimens such as \"Discitoceras\" and \"Rayonnoceras\" may be found in the limestones of the Carboniferous period in Ireland. The marine rocks of the Jurassic period in Britain often yield specimens of \"Cenoceras\", and nautiloids such as \"Eutrephoceras\" are also found in the Pierre Shale formation of the Cretaceous period in the north-central United States.\n\nSpecimens of the Ordovician nautiloid \"Endoceras\" have been recorded measuring up to in length, and \"Cameroceras\" is (somewhat doubtfully) estimated to have reached . These large nautiloids must have been formidable predators of other marine animals at the time they lived.\n\nIn some localities, such as Scandinavia and Morocco, the fossils of orthoconic nautiloids accumulated in such large numbers that they form limestones composed of nonspecific assemblages known as \"cephalopod beds\", \"cephalopod limestones\", \"nautiloid limestones\", or \"Orthoceras limestones\" in the geological literature. Although the term \"Orthoceras\" now only refers to a Baltic coast Ordovician genus, in prior times it was employed as a general name given to all straight-shelled nautiloids that lived from the Ordovician to the Triassic periods (but were most common in the early Paleozoic era).\n\nNautiloids are first known from the late Cambrian Fengshan Formation of northeastern China, where they seem to have been quite diverse (at the time this was a warm shallow sea rich in marine life). However, although four orders have been proposed from the 131 species named, there is no certainty that all of these are valid, and indeed it is likely that these taxa are seriously oversplit.\n\nMost of these early forms died out, but a single family, the Ellesmeroceratidae, survived to the early Ordovician, where it ultimately gave rise to all subsequent cephalopods. In the Early and Middle Ordovician the nautiloids underwent an evolutionary radiation. Some eight new orders appeared at this time, covering a great diversity of shell types and structure, and ecological lifestyles.\n\nNautiloids remained at the height of their range of adaptations and variety of forms throughout the Ordovician, Silurian, and Devonian periods, with various straight, curved and coiled shell forms coexisting at the same time. Several of the early orders became extinct over that interval, but others rose to prominence.\n\nNautiloids began to decline in the Devonian, perhaps due to competition with their descendants and relatives the Ammonoids and Coleoids, with only the Nautilida holding their own (and indeed increasing in diversity). Their shells became increasingly tightly coiled, while both numbers and variety of non-nautilid species continued to decrease throughout the Carboniferous and Permian.\n\nThe massive extinctions at the end of the Permian were less damaging to nautiloids than to other taxa and a few groups survived into the early Mesozoic, including pseudorthocerids, bactritids, nautilids and possibly orthocerids. The last straight-shelled forms were long thought to have disappeared at the end of the Triassic, but a possible orthocerid has been found in Cretaceous rocks. Apart from this exception, only a single nautiloid suborder, the Nautilina, continued throughout the Mesozoic, where they co-existed quite happily with their more specialised ammonoid cousins. Most of these forms differed only slightly from the modern nautilus. They had a brief resurgence in the early Tertiary (perhaps filling the niches vacated by the ammonoids in the end Cretaceous extinction), and maintained a worldwide distribution up until the middle of the Cenozoic Era. With the global cooling of the Miocene and Pliocene, their geographic distribution shrank and these hardy and long-lived animals declined in diversity again. Today there are only six living species, all belonging to two genera, \"Nautilus\" (the pearly nautilus), and \"Allonautilus\".\n\nClassifications vary and a subject to change as new information is found and in accordance with the perspective of various workers. The taxonomy of the Taxo Box is one such scheme, Teichert's 1988 classification is another, that of Teichert et al. 1964 in the Treatise Part K, still another.\n\nWade (1988) divided the subclass Nautiloidea into 6 superorders, combining orders that are phylogenetically related. They are:\n\nThree of them are established as equivalent places to put Endocerida, Actinocerida, and Discosorida. Three unite related orders that share a common ancestor and form a branch of the nautiloid taxonomic tree; Plectronoceratoidea, which consists mostly of small Cambrian forms that include the ancestors of subsequent stocks; Orthoceratoidea, which unites different primarily orthoconic orders of which one is the source for Bacritida and Ammonoidea; and Nautilitoidea, which includes the first coilded cephalopods, Tarphycerida, as well as Nautilida, which includes the recent \"Nautilus\".\n\nAnother order, Bactritida, which is derived from Orthocerida, is sometimes included with Nautiloidea, sometimes with Ammonoidea, and sometimes placed in a subclass of its own, Bactritoidea.\n\nRecently some workers in the field have come to recognize Dissidocerida as a distinct order, along with Pseudorthocerida, both previously included in Orthocerida as subtaxa.\n\nAnother interpretation (Engeser, 1997-1998) suggests that nautiloids, and indeed cephalopods in general, fall into two main groups, Palcephalopoda (including all the nautiloids except Orthocerida and Ascocerida) and Neocephalopoda (the rest of the cephalopods). However, a more recent phylogenetic study by Lindgren \"et al.\" (2004) supports the monophyly of cephalopods, with Nautiloidea being a sister group to Coleoidea.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32516206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32516206", "title": "Origin-of-death myth", "text": "Origin-of-death myth\n\nThe origin of death is a theme in the myths of many cultures. Death is a universal feature of human life, so stories about its origin appear to be universal in human cultures. As such it is a form of cosmological myth (a type of myth that explains the origins of a culture and the problems that faces it). No one type of these myths is universal, but each region has its own characteristic types. Such myths have therefore been a frequent topic of study in the field of comparative mythology.\n\nPervasively in the myths of African cultures, in the beginning there was no death. This can be because a supreme being makes people young again when they grow old; people die but go to heaven to live. In some stories eternal life is lost through some flaw (such as greed, curiosity, stubbornness or arrogance), or as a punishment for disobedience, or as the result of human indifference. Other themes are the failure of a message to be delivered to humans, or a severing of the link between heaven and Earth. Sometimes it is as a result of an accident.\n\nThe origin of death is a common theme in Native American mythology. The myths of the plateau tribes blame its origin on the interference of the trickster figure Coyote. The Chiricahua Apache myth also blames Coyote. The plains tribes ascribe it to the result of unfavorable chance. For example, in the Blackfeet account, Old Man and Old Woman arguing over whether people should die, with Old Woman using magic to ensure that the sign that they agreed upon gave her desired result.\n\nAmong the native peoples of the Western United States, a common explanation of death was that it was the result of a debate between two people or animals in which one would favour death and the other immortality. For example, the story of the Thompson Indians was that Raven wanted death as there would otherwise be too many men. Coyote preferred sleep to death but was outvoted by Crow, Fly and Maggot, who sided with Raven. Raven's daughter was then the first to die and so Raven wanted to reverse his choice. But Coyote, the trickster, said that the decision was now irrevocable.\n\nIn Oceania, the most common myth is that originally people had the power to rejuvenate themselves by shedding their skin like a snake. However, when somebody, usually an old woman, does this, she frightens her grandchildren, who cry until she resumes her old skin, an act which mandates death for future generations.\n\nIn Polynesian mythology, death is the result of the hero Māui being swallowed up by Hades or Night. If he had escaped, mankind would be immortal, however one of the birds that accompanied him burst out laughing, awakening Hine-nui-te-po who crushed Māui to death, ending hopes of immortality with him.\n\nIn the Book of Genesis, death is a consequence of the Fall of Man from a prior state of innocence.\n\nIn an early Greek myth, death is a consequence of the disagreement between Zeus and Prometheus. As a result of this quarrel, Zeus creates woman, in the form of Pandora and presents her to Prometheus' brother Epimetheus, with death being one of the results of his opening of Pandora's box, which she brought with her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4860952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4860952", "title": "Pierlucio Tinazzi", "text": "Pierlucio Tinazzi\n\nPierlucio Tinazzi (27 December 1962 – 24 March 1999) was an Italian security guard who perished while rescuing survivors of the 1999 Mont Blanc tunnel fire. Part of his job involved riding back and forth through the tunnel on his motorcycle to keep traffic flowing, dispatching tow trucks and providing motorist assistance as needed. Tinazzi had turned down a promotion to work the control booth at the main Italian office because he preferred to ride over sitting in an office.\n\nOn the day of the accident Tinazzi had been taking a rest break, and was getting ready to make a run back through the tunnel when the fire alarms went off. He had a two-way radio system in his helmet that kept him in contact with the Italian tunnel office. As soon as he was notified of the developing emergency in the tunnel, he grabbed breathing equipment and rode his BMW K75 back into the tunnel. As he came across people trying to get out, he stopped and told them to stay low, stay close to the wall (where fresh air was pumped in by the ventilation ducts) and keep moving, stopping only to breathe at the ducts. He then decided to continue on into the hottest and most dangerous part of the fire despite the risk to his own personal safety. Most of the truckers close to the fire suffocated or were poisoned by the noxious gases within minutes (see smoke inhalation). Tinazzi searched for survivors among the wreckage and those who had already succumbed to the fire's ill effects. Tinazzi put the survivors on the back of his bike and shuttled back out the French side as fast as possible, bringing out victim after victim, then going back for the next one. On Tinazzi's fifth trip into the tunnel, he came across Maurice Lebras, a French truck driver who was unconscious but still alive. Too big and unwieldy to get onto the back of the bike unconscious, Tinazzi refused to abandon him. Instead he wrestled Lebras into fire refuge #20 and closed the door.\n\nThe original fire doors were rated to survive for two hours. Some had been upgraded in the 34 years since the tunnel was built to survive for four hours, but refuge #20 was not one of them. However, even the upgraded fire refuges could not withstand the intense heat of the tunnel fire, which raged for 56 hours. Tinazzi's motorcycle melted right into the pavement a few yards from refuge #20.\n\nTinazzi's heroism and bravery saved at least ten people from certain death. He was awarded a posthumous \"Medaglia d'Oro al Valore Civile\", the highest civilian honour of Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "30031154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30031154", "title": "Priscilla Ford", "text": "Priscilla Ford\n\nPriscilla Joyce Ford (February 10, 1929 – January 29, 2005) was a mass murderer who was sentenced to death after driving her 1974 blue Lincoln Continental down a sidewalk in downtown Reno, Nevada on Thanksgiving Day in 1980. The attack killed six people and injured 23 more. Ford had been diagnosed as having paranoid schizophrenia with violent tendencies, she had been treated and released by seven different hospitals before moving to Reno in 1980. Ford launched numerous appeals against her death sentence, all of which failed. A heavy smoker, she died at the age of 75 after suffering from emphysema.\n\nFord's blood-alcohol ratio was .162, above the limit to legally drive. During the 100-foot drive, Ford drove as fast as 40 miles per hour. Ford did not resist when police asked her to exit her car. Officer Oakes, who was an officer at the crime scene, stated that Ford was remarkably calm. When she asked Oakes how many people she killed, he responded, \"five or six,\" and she replied back, \"good\". Another officer stated that Ford said, \"The more dead, the better,\" while she was in custody.\n\nOn August 4, 1981, Ford was found competent to stand trial after being found incompetent on January 29 of that year. The trial lasted almost five months. After 13 hours of deliberation, a jury composed of seven women and five men found Ford guilty on six counts of murder and 23 counts of attempted murder on March 19, 1982. On March 28, 1982, the jury decided she was to be put to death. Even though seven people died as a result of Ford's attack, issues in the indictment caused Ford to only be charged with six. Ford's lawyer claimed she was mentally ill with schizophrenia and should not be put to death, rather spend the rest of her life in a mental institution, while the District Attorney called her \"evil personified\" and fought for Ford to be found legally sane. Ford herself went on the stand and testified that she believed she was the reincarnation of Jesus and therefore incapable of sin.\n\nThe murders were not her only interaction with law enforcement during her life. In 1957, Ford shot her second husband in self-defense before turning the gun on herself. Ford was also arrested for trespassing and assault when her daughter was eleven.\n\nFord, a heavy smoker, died of emphysema at 75 at Southern Nevada Women's Correctional Center in North Las Vegas, Nevada on January 29, 2005.\n"}
{"id": "14619134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14619134", "title": "Qiyamah", "text": "Qiyamah\n\nIn Islam, Qiyamah () is the belief in the resurrection of the people on the Day of Judgment, whether Muslim or not. In the Quran, \"Al-Qiyamah\" refers to the resurrection.\n\nAccording to the belief, ascension to heaven requires belief in the observation and in the Five Pillars of Islam. It affirms which there will be no injustice and the infidel won't be saved.\n"}
{"id": "617256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=617256", "title": "Queensland lungfish", "text": "Queensland lungfish\n\nThe Queensland lungfish (\"Neoceratodus forsteri\"), also known as the Australian lungfish, Burnett salmon and barramunda, is a surviving member of the family Neoceratodontidae and order Ceratodontiformes. It is one of only six extant lungfish species in the world. Endemic to Australia, the Neoceratodontidae are an ancient family belonging to the class Sarcopterygii, or lobe-finned fishes.\n\nFossil records of this group date back 380 million years, around the time when the higher vertebrate classes were beginning to evolve. Fossils of lungfish almost identical to this species have been uncovered in northern New South Wales, indicating that \"Neoceratodus\" has remained virtually unchanged for well over 100 million years, making it a living fossil and one of the oldest living vertebrate genera on the planet.\n\nIt is one of six extant representatives of the ancient air-breathing Dipnoi (lungfishes) that flourished during the Devonian period (about 413–365 million years ago) and is the outgroup to all other members of this lineage.\nThe five other freshwater lungfish species, four in Africa and one in South America, are very different morphologically from \"N. forsteri\". The Queensland lungfish can live for several days out of the water, if it is kept moist, but will not survive total water depletion, unlike its African counterparts.\n\nThe small settlement of Ceratodus, Queensland derives its name from that of the Queensland lungfish. The species was named in honour of the squatter and politician William Forster.\n\nThe Queensland lungfish is native only to the Mary and Burnett River systems in south-eastern Queensland. It has been successfully distributed to other, more southerly rivers, including the Brisbane, Albert, Stanley, and Coomera Rivers, and the Enoggera Reservoir in the past century. The Queensland lungfish has also been introduced to the Pine, Caboolture, and Condamine Rivers, but current survival and breeding success are unknown. Formerly widespread, at one time at least seven species of lungfish were in Australia.\n\nThis species lives in slow-flowing rivers and still water (including reservoirs) that have some aquatic vegetation present on banks. It occurs over mud, sand, or gravel bottoms. Australian lungfish are commonly found in deep pools of depths between 3 and 10 m and live in small groups under submerged logs, in dense banks of aquatic macrophytes, or in underwater caves formed by the removal of substrate under tree roots on river banks. The lungfish is tolerant of cold, but prefers waters with temperatures between 15 and 25 °C.\n\nThe Queensland lungfish is incapable of surviving complete desiccation of its habitat, although it can live out of water for several days if the surface of its skin is constantly moist. Unlike the African species, \"Protopterus\", it does not survive dry seasons by secreting a mucous cocoon and burying itself in the mud.\n\nThe Queensland lungfish is essentially a sedentary species, spending its life within a restricted area. Its home range rarely extends beyond a single pool or, occasionally, two adjacent pools. It does not follow a set migratory path, but may actively seek out suitable spawning habitats between July and December.\n\nQueensland lungfish are olive-green to dull brown on the back, sides, tail, and fins, and pale yellow to orange on the underside. They have been described as having a reddish colouring on their sides which gets much brighter in the males during the breeding season. This colouration is the only distinguishing sexual characteristic of the lungfish. They have stout, elongated bodies and flattened heads with small eyes. The mouth is small and in a subterminal position. The lungfish can grow to a length of about , and a weight of . It is commonly found to be about and on average. Both sexes follow similar growth patterns, although the females grow to a slightly larger size. They are covered in slime when taken from the water.\n\nThe skeleton of the lungfish is partly bone, and partly cartilage. The vertebrae are pure cartilage, while the ribs are hollow tubes filled with a cartilaginous substance. The body of the lungfish is covered with large, bony scales. Ten rows occur on each side, grading to small scales on the fins. The scales are each embedded in their own pockets, and overlap extensively, such that vulnerable areas of the body are covered by a thickness of at least four scales. Two unusually large and thick interlocking scales cover the back of the head where the bony skull is thin. Their cranial muscles (around the skull and jaw) follow similar patterns observed in other vertebrates, whereby the muscles tend to first develop from anterior to posterior, and from their region of origin toward insertion. They have powerful diphycercal tails that are long and paddle-shaped. The pectoral fins are large, fleshy, and flipper-like. The pelvic fins are also fleshy and flipper-like and situated well back on the body. The dorsal fin commences in the middle of the back and is confluent with the caudal and anal fins.\n\nThe dentition of the lungfish is unusual: two incisors, restricted to the upper jaw, are flat, slightly bent, and denticulated on the hind margin. These are followed by dental plates on the upper and lower jaws.\n\nJuveniles have different body proportions from mature adults. The head is rounder, the fins are smaller, and the trunk is more slender. Also, the brain is relatively larger and fills more of the cranial cavity in juveniles compared to adults. The mouth is initially terminal, but shifts back as the fish grows. The dorsal fin typically reaches to the back of the head in young juveniles, and gradually moves caudally until it only extends to the mid-dorsal region in adults. They show a gradual change in body form as they develop, but no metamorphosis is externally detectable and no obvious point occurs at which they can be termed adult. As a juvenile, the lungfish is distinctly mottled with a base colour of gold or olive-brown. Patches of intense dark pigment will persist long after the mottling has disappeared. Young lungfish are capable of rapid colour change in response to light, but this ability is gradually lost as the pigment becomes denser.\n\nThe lungfish is reputed to be sluggish and inactive, but it is capable of rapid escape movements with the use of its strong tail. It is usually quiet and unresponsive by day, becoming more active in the late afternoon and evening.\n\nA distinctive characteristic of the Queensland lungfish is the presence of a single dorsal lung, used to supplement the oxygen supply through the gills. During times of excessive activity, drought, or high temperatures (when water becomes deoxygenated), or when prevailing conditions inhibit normal functioning of the gills, the lungfish can rise to the surface and swallow air into its lung. More frequent air breathing is correlated with periods of greater activity at night when it uses the lung as a supplementary organ of respiration.\n\nUnlike the South American and African lungfishes, the Australian species has gills on all the first four gill arches, while the fifth arch bears a hemibranch. It is also the only facultative air breather lungfish species, only breathing air when oxygen in the water is not sufficient to meet their needs. The lung is a single long sac situated above and extending the length of the body cavity, and is formed by a ventral outgrowth of the gut. Internally, the lung is divided into two distinct lobes that interconnect along its length, compartmentalized by the infolding of the walls.\nEach compartment is further divided to form a spongy alveolar region. Blood capillaries run through this region close enough to the air space in the lung to enable gas exchange. Lungfish breathe in using a buccal force-pump similar to that of amphibians. The contraction of smooth muscles in the walls of the lung results in exhalation.\n\nThe sound of the lungfish exhaling air at the surface prior to inhaling a fresh breath has been compared to that made by a small bellows. Young lungfish come to the surface to breathe air when they are about 25 mm long.\n\nThe Queensland lungfish spawns and completes its entire lifecycle in freshwater systems. The age of first breeding is estimated to be 17 years for males and 22 years for females. Males typically become mature at 738–790 mm and females at 814–854 mm. After an elaborate courtship, the lungfish spawn in pairs, depositing large adhesive eggs amongst aquatic plants. They spawn from August until November, before the spring rains, in flowing streams that are at least a metre deep.\n\nEggs are most abundant during September and October. The stimulus for spawning is believed to be day length. The lungfish is known to spawn both during the day and at night. The lungfish is selective in its choice of spawning sites. Eggs have been recorded on aquatic plants rooted in gravel and sand, slow- and fast-moving waters, in shade and in full sun, but never on aquatic plants covered with slimy algae, in stagnant water, or where loose debris was on the water’s surface.\n\nOpposite of its South American and African relatives, the Australian lungfish does not make a nest or guard or care for its eggs. When spawning does take place, the pair of fish will lie on their sides or become entwined. They usually deposit their eggs singly, occasionally in pairs, but very rarely in clusters. The male lungfish fertilizes each egg as it emerges, and the eggs are deposited in dense aquatic vegetation. The newly laid egg is hemispherical, delicate, heavily yolked, and enclosed in a single vitelline and triple jelly envelope. The egg about 3 mm in diameter; with the jelly envelope, it has a total diameter of about . The egg is sticky for a short while until silt and small aquatic organisms have covered it, but long enough for it to become attached to submerged vegetation. It is negatively buoyant and if it falls to the lake or river bed, it is unlikely to survive to hatching.\n\nThe female has a large ovary and the potential to lay many eggs, but in the wild only produces a few hundreds of eggs, at most, during her lifetime. In captivity, 200 to 600 eggs have been laid in a single event. The lungfish does not necessarily spawn every year. A good spawning season occurs usually once every five years, regardless of environmental conditions.\n\nThe eggs and young are similar to those of frogs, but the offspring differ from both frogs and other lungfishes by the absence of external gills during early development. Within the egg, head structures and pigmentation start to appear by day 17. They hatch after three to four weeks and resemble tadpoles. The young fish are slow-growing, reportedly reaching after 110 days, and about after 8 months. During the first week, it lies on its side, hiding in the weeds, and moving only when stimulated by touch. It will swim spontaneously, and often retreat back into the gelatinous envelope when disturbed. Newly hatched larvae develop a ciliary current over their skin and gill surfaces. This is believed to either provide respiratory exchange across the skin and gills without necessitating any movements of the jaw or brachial apparatus, or to keep the skin of the unprotected larvae free of debris, parasites, and predatory protozoans. Larvae are reported not to feed for two to three weeks while the yolk is still present. By the time the yolk is fully used, a spiral valve has developed in the intestine and the fish starts to feed. The young can grow about 2 inches per month under optimal conditions.\n\nThe Queensland lungfish has very complex courtship behavior made up of three distinct phases. The first is the searching phase, when the fish will range over a large area, possibly searching for potential spawning sites. A pair of fish will perform circling movements at the surface of the water close to beds of aquatic plants. They breathe air more frequently and more noisily than normal, possibly reflecting a greater physiological requirement for oxygen. Individual fish have been observed to breathe air at regular intervals of about 20 minutes, with air breathing accompanied by a distinct loud burp made in the air. The noisy breathing may be a form of a mating call. The lungfish seem to do their noisy breathing in concert, even responding to each other, but never in close vicinity of where the eggs are laid.\n\nThe next phase involves behavior, similar to “follow-the-leader”, during which one fish, the male, shows interest in the female and nudges her with his snout. Up to eight individuals may be involved in follow-the-leader behavior. The male lungfish may occasionally take a piece of aquatic plant into its mouth and wave it around. In the third phase, the fish dive together through aquatic vegetation, the male following the female and presumably shedding milt over the eggs.\n\nAdults have a high survival rate and are long-lived (at least 20–25 years). A Queensland lungfish named \"Granddad\" at the Shedd Aquarium in Chicago was the oldest living fish in any Aquarium, and was already an adult when he was first placed on display in 1933; Granddad was estimated to be at least in his eighties, and possibly over one-hundred, at the time of his death on February 5, 2017.\n\nThe Queensland lungfish has an unusually large karyotype, very large chromosomes and cells, and a high nuclear DNA content relative to other vertebrates, but less than what is reported for other lungfishes. In spite of this, it displays low genetic diversity between populations from the Mary, Burnett, and Brisbane catchments. This low level of genetic variation could be attributed to population “bottlenecks” associated with periods of range contraction, probably during the Pleistocene, and in recent times during the periods of episodic or prolonged drought that are known to reduce some reaches of these river systems.\n\nThe Queensland lungfish is primarily nocturnal, and is essentially carnivorous. In captivity, it will feed on frogs, earthworms, pieces of meat, and pelleted food. In the wild, its prey includes frogs, tadpoles, fishes, a variety of invertebrates, and plant material. No quantitative dietary data are available, but anecdotal observations clearly indicate the diet of the lungfish changes with development. This is proven to be correlated with a change in dentition.\n\nLungfish larvae are bottom feeders. They eat microcrustaceans and small \"Tubifex\" worms, occasionally supplementing their diets with filamentous algae. Soft foods such as worms and plants are partially crushed with a few quick bites and then swallowed. In the adult lungfish, movement of the prey in and out of the mouth is accompanied by strong adduction of the jaws. This crushing mechanism is coupled with hydraulic transport of the food, achieved by movements of the hyoid apparatus, to position the prey within the oral cavity. The Queensland lungfish exhibits the most primitive version of these biomechanical feeding adaptations and behaviors.\n\nAlthough the status of the Queensland lungfish is secure, it is a protected species under the Queensland \"Fish and Oyster Act of 1914\" and capture in the wild is strictly prohibited. It was placed on the CITES list in 1977. The lungfish is currently protected from fishing, and collection for education or research purposes requires a permit in Queensland, under the \"Fisheries Act of 1994\", and from the Commonwealth Government. It is included on the list of “vulnerable” species, as studies have failed to show it meets the criteria needed to be considered a threatened or endangered species.\n\nHuman activities currently threaten the Queensland lungfish, particularly water development. It is potentially at risk in much of its core distribution in the Burnett and Mary Rivers, as 26% of these river systems are presently impounded by weirs and dams. Barriers to movement and altered flow regimens downstream of dams for irrigation purposes could lead to the disruption of existing population structure and cause even more loss of genetic variation.\n\nQueensland lungfish can be very fast-growing, yet with a delayed first breeding age. For a long-lived species with naturally low mortality rates, successful spawning and juvenile recruitment is not essential every year and may only occur irregularly in medium to long cycles, even in natural environments. The length of these cycles could easily mask the potentially deleterious impacts on recruitment for many years. Additionally, large adults could remain common for decades and give no indication of a declining population in the longer term.\n\nThe Mozambique mouth brooder, or tilapia, has been declared a noxious and threatening alien species to the lungfish in Queensland.\n\nProposed 2006 damming projects on both the Mary and Burnett rivers threaten the habitat of the remaining lungfish. The dams would change the flow of the rivers, eliminating the slow, shallow areas the fish need for spawning. Scientists worldwide have become involved in saving the habitat for these lungfish, citing their evolutionary importance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1551695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1551695", "title": "Quiddity", "text": "Quiddity\n\nIn scholastic philosophy, \"quiddity\" (; Latin: \"quidditas\") was another term for the essence of an object, literally its \"whatness\" or \"what it is\". \n\nThe term \"quiddity\" derives from the Latin word \"quidditas\", which was used by the medieval scholastics as a literal translation of the equivalent term in Aristotle's Greek to ti en einai (τὸ τί ἦν εἶναι) or \"the what it was to be (a given thing)\".\n\nQuiddity describes properties that a particular substance (e.g. a person) shares with others of its kind. The question \"what (quid) is it?\" asks for a general description by way of commonality. This is quiddity or \"whatness\" (i.e., its \"what it is\"). Quiddity was often contrasted by the scholastic philosophers with the haecceity or \"thisness\" of an item, which was supposed to be a positive characteristic of an individual that caused them to be \"this\" individual, and no other. It is used in this sense in British poet George Herbert's poem, \"Quiddity\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16796662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16796662", "title": "Red Dog (Pilbara)", "text": "Red Dog (Pilbara)\n\nRed Dog (c. 197121 November 1979) was a kelpie/cattle dog cross that was well known for his travels through Western Australia's vast Pilbara region. Red Dog had a series of owners and lengthy periods traveling on his own, essentially becoming a beloved friend and mascot of the greater Pilbara community. A statue was installed in his memory in Dampier, one of the towns to which he often returned. He is frequently referred to as a \"red kelpie\" or a \"red cloud kelpie\".\n\nRed Dog was believed to have been born in the town of Paraburdoo, Western Australia in 1971. \n\nRed Dog was called by a variety of names by those who knew him, including Bluey, Tally Ho, and Dog of the Northwest. Tally Ho was his first name, given to him by a man called Colin Cummings, who is believed to have been his first owner, and the one who brought him to Dampier. The nickname \"Red Dog\" has been attributed to the red dirt of the Pilbara Region (although 'red dog' is a common nickname for red kelpies and heelers, much in the same way as 'blue dog' or 'Bluey' is a common nickname for the Australian cattle dog).\n\nHis second owner was John Stazzonelli, a bus driver with Hamersley Iron, who took the dog with him in his bus. With John, Red Dog travelled as far as Perth, Broome, Roebourne, Point Samson and Port Hedland.\n\nFollowing Stazzonelli's death in 1975, Red Dog spent a lot of time traveling on his own. He was also taken in by many members of the community, and a veterinarian who treated him. Each time he visited the vet, it was with a new owner. Red was made a member of the Dampier Salts Sport and Social Club and the Transport Workers' Union, and was also given a bank account with the Bank of New South Wales, which was said to have used him as a mascot, with the slogan \"If Red banks at the Wales, then you can too.\" \n\nAlthough Red Dog was well liked, it is believed that he was deliberately poisoned in 1979 with strychnine.\n\nRed Dog was buried, by veterinarian Rick Fenny, in a secret unmarked grave around Roebourne, Western Australia.\n\nSoon after Red's death, Australian author Nancy Gillespie wrote and compiled anecdotes and poetry written by several people of the Pilbara region for her 1983 book \"Red Dog\", as did Beverly Duckett in her 1993 book, \"Red Dog: the Pilbara Wanderer\".\n\nRed Dog's story and statue have caught the attention of a number of people passing through Dampier including British author Louis de Bernières. He wrote a book loosely based on Red's legend, called \"Red Dog\". A four-wheel drive club has been named in his honour.\n\nDe Berniere's novel was adapted as a critically acclaimed feature film about Red. It was made in Australia and released in August 2011. Based on a screenplay by Daniel Taplitz, it is directed by Kriv Stenders. The title role was played by Koko.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "706186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706186", "title": "Reproductive rights", "text": "Reproductive rights\n\nReproductive rights are legal rights and freedoms relating to reproduction and reproductive health that vary amongst countries around the world. The World Health Organization defines reproductive rights as follows:\n\nReproductive rights rest on the recognition of the basic right of all couples and individuals to decide freely and responsibly the number, spacing and timing of their children and to have the information and means to do so, and the right to attain the highest standard of sexual and reproductive health. They also include the right of all to make decisions concerning reproduction free of discrimination, coercion and violence.\n\nWomen's reproductive rights may include some or all of the following: the right to legal and safe abortion; the right to birth control; freedom from coerced sterilization and contraception; the right to access good-quality reproductive healthcare; and the right to education and access in order to make free and informed reproductive choices. Reproductive rights may also include the right to receive education about sexually transmitted infections and other aspects of sexuality, and protection from practices such as female genital mutilation (FGM).\n\nReproductive rights began to develop as a subset of human rights at the United Nation's 1968 International Conference on Human Rights. The resulting non binding Proclamation of Tehran was the first international document to recognize one of these rights when it stated that: \"Parents have a basic human right to determine freely and responsibly the number and the spacing of their children.\" States, though, have been slow in incorporating these rights in internationally legally binding instruments. Thus, while some of these rights have already been recognized in hard law, that is, in legally binding international human rights instruments, others have been mentioned only in non binding recommendations and, therefore, have at best the status of soft law in international law, while a further group is yet to be accepted by the international community and therefore remains at the level of advocacy.\n\nIssues related to reproductive rights are some of the most vigorously contested rights' issues worldwide, regardless of the population's socioeconomic level, religion or culture.\n\nThe issue of reproductive rights is frequently presented as being of vital importance in discussions and articles by population concern organizations such as Population Matters.\n\nReproductive rights are a subset of sexual and reproductive health and rights.\n\nIn 1945, the United Nations Charter included the obligation \"to promote... universal respect for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without discrimination as to race, sex, language, or religion\". However, the Charter did not define these rights. Three years later, the UN adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the first international legal document to delineate human rights; the UDHR does not mention reproductive rights. Reproductive rights began to appear as a subset of human rights in the 1968 Proclamation of Tehran, which states: \"Parents have a basic human right to determine freely and responsibly the number and the spacing of their children\".\n\nThis right was affirmed by the UN General Assembly in the 1969 Declaration on Social Progress and Development which states \"The family as a basic unit of society and the natural environment for the growth and well-being of all its members, particularly children and youth, should be assisted and protected so that it may fully assume its responsibilities within the community. Parents have the exclusive right to determine freely and responsibly the number and spacing of their children.\" The 1975 UN International Women's Year Conference echoed the Proclamation of Tehran.\n\nThe twenty-year \"Cairo Programme of Action\" was adopted in 1994 at the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo. The non-binding Programme of Action asserted that governments have a responsibility to meet individuals' reproductive needs, rather than demographic targets. It recommended that family planning services be provided in the context of other reproductive health services, including services for healthy and safe childbirth, care for sexually transmitted infections, and post-abortion care. The ICPD also addressed issues such as violence against women, sex trafficking, and adolescent health. The Cairo Program is the first international policy document to define reproductive health, stating:\nReproductive health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, in all matters relating to the reproductive system and its functions and processes. Reproductive health therefore implies that people are able to have a satisfying and safe sex life and that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, when and how often to do so. Implicit in this last condition are the right of men and women to be informed [about] and to have access to safe, effective, affordable and acceptable methods of family planning of their choice, as well as other methods for regulation of fertility which are not against the law, and the right of access to appropriate health-care services that will enable women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth and provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant [para. 72].\n\nUnlike previous population conferences, a wide range of interests from grassroots to government level were represented in Cairo. 179 nations attended the ICPD and overall eleven thousand representatives from governments, NGOs, international agencies and citizen activists participated. The ICPD did not address the far-reaching implications of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. In 1999, recommendations at the ICPD+5 were expanded to include commitment to AIDS education, research, and prevention of mother-to-child transmission, as well as to the development of vaccines and microbicides.\n\nThe Cairo Programme of Action was adopted by 184 UN member states. Nevertheless, many Latin American and Islamic states made formal reservations to the programme, in particular, to its concept of reproductive rights and sexual freedom, to its treatment of abortion, and to its potential incompatibility with Islamic law.\n\nImplementation of the Cairo Programme of Action varies considerably from country to country. In many countries, post-ICPD tensions emerged as the human rights-based approach was implemented. Since the ICPD, many countries have broadened their reproductive health programs and attempted to integrate maternal and child health services with family planning. More attention is paid to adolescent health and the consequences of unsafe abortion. Lara Knudsen observes that the ICPD succeeded in getting feminist language into governments' and population agencies' literature, but in many countries the underlying concepts are not widely put into practice. In two preparatory meetings for the ICPD+10 in Asia and Latin America, the United States, under the George W. Bush Administration, was the only nation opposing the ICPD's Programme of Action.\n\nThe 1995 Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, in its non-binding Declaration and Platform for Action, supported the Cairo Programme's definition of reproductive health, but established a broader context of reproductive rights:\nThe human rights of women include their right to have control over and decide freely and responsibly on matters related to their sexuality, including sexual and reproductive health, free of coercion, discrimination and violence. Equal relationships between women and men in matters of sexual relations and reproduction, including full respect for the integrity of the person, require mutual respect, consent and shared responsibility for sexual behavior and its consequences [para. 96]. The Beijing Platform demarcated twelve interrelated critical areas of the human rights of women that require advocacy. The Platform framed women's reproductive rights as \"indivisible, universal and inalienable human rights.\"\n\nThe Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity, proposed by a group of experts in November 2006 but not yet incorporated by States in international law, declares in its Preamble that \"the international community has recognized the rights of persons to decide freely and responsibly on matters related to their sexuality, including sexual and reproductive health, free from coercion, discrimination, and violence.\" In relation to reproductive health, Principle 9 on \"The Right to Treatment with Humanity while in Detention\" requires that \"States shall... <nowiki>[p]rovide</nowiki> adequate access to medical care and counseling appropriate to the needs of those in custody, recognizing any particular needs of persons on the basis of their sexual orientation and gender identity, including with regard to reproductive health, access to HIV/AIDS information and therapy and access to hormonal or other therapy as well as to gender-reassignment treatments where desired.\" Nonetheless, African, Caribbean and Islamic Countries, as well as the Russian Federation, have objected to the use of these principles as Human Rights standards.\n\nState abuses against reproductive rights have happened both under right-wing and left-wing governments. Such abuses include attempts to forcefully increase the birth rate - one of the most notorious natalist policies of the 20th century was that which occurred in communist Romania in the period of 1967-1990 during communist leader Nicolae Ceaușescu, who adopted a very aggressive natalist policy which included outlawing abortion and contraception, routine pregnancy tests for women, taxes on childlessness, and legal discrimination against childless people - as well as attempts to decrease the fertility rate - China's one child policy (1978-2015). State mandated forced marriage was also practiced by authoritarian governments as a way to meet population targets: the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia systematically forced people into marriages, in order to increase the population and continue the revolution. Some governments have implemented eugenic policies of forced sterilizations of 'undesirable' population groups. Such policies were carried out against ethnic minorities in Europe and North America in the 20th century, and more recently in Latin America against the Indigenous population in the 1990s; in Peru, President Alberto Fujimori (in office from 1990 to 2000) has been accused of genocide and crimes against humanity as a result of a sterilization program put in place by his administration targeting indigenous people (mainly the Quechuas and the Aymaras).\n\nThe Istanbul convention, the first legally binding instrument in Europe in the field of violence against women and domestic violence prohibits forced sterilization and forced abortion:\n\nSince most existing legally binding international human rights instruments do not explicitly mention sexual and reproductive rights, a broad coalition of NGOs, civil servants, and experts working in international organizations have been promoting a reinterpretation of those instruments to link the realization of the already internationally recognized human rights with the realization of reproductive rights. An example of this linkage is provided by the 1994 Cairo Programme of Action: \nReproductive rights embrace certain human rights that are already recognized in national laws, international human rights documents and other relevant United Nations consensus documents. These rights rest on the recognition of the basic right of all couples and individuals to decide freely and responsibly the number, spacing and timing of their children and to have the information and means to do so, and the right to attain the highest standard of sexual and reproductive health. It also includes the right of all to make decisions concerning reproduction free of discrimination, coercion and violence as expressed in human rights documents. In the exercise of this right, they should take into account the needs of their living and future children and their responsibilities towards the community.\nSimilarly, Amnesty International has argued that the realisation of reproductive rights is linked with the realisation of a series of recognised human rights, including the right to health, the right to freedom from discrimination, the right to privacy, and the right not to be subjected to torture or ill-treatment. \n\nThe World Health Organization states that:\n\nHowever, not all states have accepted the inclusion of reproductive rights in the body of internationally recognized human rights. At the Cairo Conference, several states made formal reservations either to the concept of reproductive rights or to its specific content. Ecuador, for instance, stated that: \nWith regard to the Programme of Action of the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and laws of Ecuador and the norms of international law, the delegation of Ecuador reaffirms, inter alia, the following principles embodied in its Constitution: the inviolability of life, the protection of children from the moment of conception, freedom of conscience and religion, the protection of the family as the fundamental unit of society, responsible paternity, the right of parents to bring up their children and the formulation of population and development plans by the Government in accordance with the principles of respect for sovereignty. Accordingly, the delegation of Ecuador enters a reservation with respect to all terms such as \"regulation of fertility\", \"interruption of pregnancy\", \"reproductive health\", \"reproductive rights\" and \"unwanted children\", which in one way or another, within the context of the Programme of Action, could involve abortion.\nSimilar reservations were made by Argentina, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Honduras, Malta, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru and the Holy See. Islamic Countries, such as Brunei, Djibouti, Iran, Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Syria, United Arab Emirates, and Yemen made broad reservations against any element of the programme that could be interpreted as contrary to the Sharia. Guatemala even questioned whether the conference could legally proclaim new human rights.\n\nThe United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the World Health Organization (WHO) advocate for reproductive rights with a primary emphasis on women's rights. In this respect the UN and WHO focus on a range of issues from access to family planning services, sex education, menopause, and the reduction of obstetric fistula, to the relationship between reproductive health and economic status.\n\nThe reproductive rights of women are advanced in the context of the right to freedom from discrimination and the social and economic status of women. The group Development Alternatives with Women for a New Era (DAWN) explained the link in the following statement:\nControl over reproduction is a basic need and a basic right for all women. Linked as it is to women's health and social status, as well as the powerful social structures of religion, state control and administrative inertia, and private profit, it is from the perspective of poor women that this right can best be understood and affirmed. Women know that childbearing is a social, not a purely personal, phenomenon; nor do we deny that world population trends are likely to exert considerable pressure on resources and institutions by the end of this century. But our bodies have become a pawn in the struggles among states, religions, male heads of households, and private corporations. Programs that do not take the interests of women into account are unlikely to succeed...\n\nWomen's reproductive rights have long retained key issue status in the debate on overpopulation.\n\"The only ray of hope I can see – and it's not much – is that wherever women are put in control of their lives, both politically and socially; where medical facilities allow them to deal with birth control and where their husbands allow them to make those decisions, birth rate falls. Women don't want to have 12 kids of whom nine will die.\" \"David Attenborough\n\nAccording to OHCHR: \"Women’s sexual and reproductive health is related to multiple human rights, including the right to life, the right to be free from torture, the right to health, the right to privacy, the right to education, and the prohibition of discrimination\".\n\nAttempts have been made to analyse the socioeconomic conditions that affect the realisation of a woman's reproductive rights. The term reproductive justice has been used to describe these broader social and economic issues. Proponents of reproductive justice argue that while the right to legalized abortion and contraception applies to everyone, these choices are only meaningful to those with resources, and that there is a growing gap between access and affordability.\n\nMen's reproductive rights have been claimed by various organizations, both for issues of reproductive health, and other rights related to sexual reproduction.\n\nThree international issues in men's reproductive health are sexually transmitted diseases, cancer and exposure to toxins.\n\nRecently men's reproductive right with regards to paternity have become subject of debate in the U.S. The term \"male abortion\" was coined by Melanie McCulley, a South Carolina attorney, in a 1998 article. The theory begins with the premise that when a woman becomes pregnant she has the option of abortion, adoption, or parenthood; it argues, in the context of legally recognized gender equality, that in the earliest stages of pregnancy the putative (alleged) father should have the right to relinquish all future parental rights and financial responsibility, leaving the informed mother with the same three options. This concept has been supported by a former president of the feminist organization National Organization for Women, attorney Karen DeCrow. The feminist argument for male reproductive choice contends that the uneven ability to choose experienced by men and women in regards to parenthood is evidence of a state-enforced coercion favoring traditional sex roles.\n\nIn 2006, the National Center for Men brought a case in the US, \"Dubay v. Wells\" (dubbed by some \"\"Roe v. Wade\" for men\"), that argued that in the event of an unplanned pregnancy, when an unmarried woman informs a man that she is pregnant by him, he should have an opportunity to give up all paternity rights and responsibilities. Supporters argue that this would allow the woman time to make an informed decision and give men the same reproductive rights as women. In its dismissal of the case, the U.S. Court of Appeals (Sixth Circuit) stated that \"the Fourteenth Amendment does not deny to [the] State the power to treat different classes of persons in different ways.\"\n\nThe opportunity to give men the right for a Paper Abortion is heavily discussed.\n\nIntersex, in humans and other animals, is a variation in sex characteristics including chromosomes, gonads, or genitals that do not allow an individual to be distinctly identified as male or female. Such variation may involve genital ambiguity, and combinations of chromosomal genotype and sexual phenotype other than XY-male and XX-female. Intersex persons are often subjected to involuntary \"sex normalizing\" surgical and hormonal treatments in infancy and childhood, often also including sterilization.\n\nUN agencies have begun to take note. On 1 February 2013, Juan E Mendés, the UN Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, issued a statement condemning non-consensual surgical intervention on intersex people. His report stated, \"Children who are born with atypical sex characteristics are often subject to irreversible sex assignment, involuntary sterilization, involuntary genital normalizing surgery, performed without their informed consent, or that of their parents, \"in an attempt to fix their sex\", leaving them with permanent, irreversible infertility and causing severe mental suffering\". In May 2014, the World Health Organization issued a joint statement on \"Eliminating forced, coercive and otherwise involuntary sterilization, An interagency statement\" with the OHCHR, UN Women, UNAIDS, UNDP, UNFPA and UNICEF. The report references the involuntary surgical \"sex-normalising or other procedures\" on \"intersex persons\". It questions the medical necessity of such treatments, patients' ability to consent, and a weak evidence base. The report recommends a range of guiding principles to prevent compulsory sterilization in medical treatment, including ensuring patient autonomy in decision-making, ensuring non-discrimination, accountability and access to remedies.\n\nIn many jurisdictions minors require parental consent or parental notification in order to access various reproductive services, such as contraception, abortion, gynecological consultations, testing for STDs etc. The requirement that minors have parental consent/notification for testing for HIV/AIDS is especially controversial, particularly in areas where the disease is endemic, and it is a sensitive subject. Balancing minors' rights versus parental rights is considered an ethical problem in medicine and law, and there have been many court cases on this issue in the US. An important concept recognized since 1989 by the Convention on the Rights of the Child is that of the evolving capacities of a minor, namely that minors should, in accordance with their maturity and level of understanding, be involved in decisions that affect them.\n\nYouth are often denied equal access to reproductive health services because health workers view adolescent sexual activity as unacceptable, or see sex education as the responsibility of parents. Providers of reproductive health have little accountability to youth clients, a primary factor in denying youth access to reproductive health care. In many countries, regardless of legislation, minors are denied even the most basic reproductive care, if they are not accompanied by parents: in India, for instance, in 2017, a 17-year-old girl who was rejected by her family due to her pregnancy, was also rejected by hospitals and gave birth in the street. In recent years the lack of reproductive rights for adolescents has been a concern of international organizations, such as UNFPA.\n\nMandatory involvement of parents in cases where the minor has sufficient maturity to understand their situation is considered by health organization as a violation of minor's rights and detrimental to their health. The World Health Organization has criticized parental consent/notification laws:\n\nDiscrimination in health care settings takes many forms and is often manifested when an individual or group is denied access to health care services that are otherwise available to others. It can also occur through denial of services that are only needed by certain groups, such as women. Examples include specific individuals or groups being subjected to physical and verbal abuse or violence; involuntary treatment; breaches of confidentiality and/or denial of autonomous decision-making, such as the requirement of consent to treatment by parents, spouses or guardians; and lack of free and informed consent. [...] Laws and policies must respect the principles of autonomy in health care decision-making; guarantee free and informed consent, privacy and confidentiality; prohibit mandatory HIV testing; prohibit screening procedures that are not of benefit to the individual or the public; and ban involuntary treatment and mandatory third-party authorization and notification requirements.\"\nAccording to UNICEF: \"When dealing with sexual and reproductive health, the obligation\nto inform parents and obtain their consent becomes a significant barrier with consequences for adolescents’ lives and for public health in general.\" One specific issue which is seen as a form of hypocrisy of legislators is that of having a higher age of medical consent for the purpose of reproductive and sexual health than the age of sexual consent - in such cases the law allows youth to engage in sexual activity, but does not allow them to consent to medical procedures that may arise from being sexually active; UNICEF states that \"On sexual and reproductive health matters, the minimum age of medical consent should never be higher than the age of sexual consent.\"\n\nMany unintended pregnancies stem from traditional contraceptive methods or no contraceptive measures.\n\nYouth sexual education in Uganda is relatively low. Comprehensive sex education is not generally taught in schools; even if it was, the majority of young people do not stay in school after the age of fifteen, so information would be limited regardless.\n\nAfrica experiences high rates of unintended pregnancy, along with high rates of HIV/AIDS. Young women aged 15–24 are eight times more likely to have HIV/AIDS than young men. Sub-Saharan Africa is the world region most affected by HIV/AIDS, with approximately 25 million people living with HIV in 2015. Sub-Saharan Africa accounts for two-thirds of the global total of new HIV infections.\n\nAttempted abortions and unsafe abortions are a risk for youth in Africa. On average, there are 2.4 million unsafe abortions in East Africa, 1.8 million in Western Africa, over 900,000 in Middle Africa, and over 100,000 in Southern Africa each year.\n\nIn Uganda, abortion is illegal except to save the mother's life. However, 78% of teenagers report knowing someone who has had an abortion and the police do not always prosecute everyone who has an abortion. An estimated 22% of all maternal deaths in the area stem from illegal, unsafe abortions.\n\nOver 85% of European women (all ages) have used some form of birth control in their lives. Europeans as an aggregate report using the pill and condoms as the most commonly used contraceptives.\n\nFamily planning has become prominent throughout the region and most taboos concerning sexuality have been lifted or diminished. Youth sexual and reproductive health centers have been established across most of the region. In Sweden, approximately 80% of girls and 17% of boys have visited these youth centers, which provide all or nearly all services youth need at little to no charge. Sweden has the highest percentage of lifetime contraceptive use, with 96% of its inhabitants claiming to have used birth control at some point in their life. Sweden also has a high self-reported rate of postcoital pill use. A 2007 anonymous survey of Swedish 18-year-olds showed that three out of four youth were sexually active, with 5% reporting having had an abortion and 4% reporting the contraction of an STI. Similar centers exist in Estonia, Finland, and Portugal.\n\nViews on sexual practice vary throughout the region. For example, in the United Kingdom (UK), sex among youth is generally looked down upon and seen as a problem in need of solution. In the Netherlands, sex between youth is viewed as normal and therefore not discussed in terms of solutions, but rather in terms of ensuring safe practices. That being said, the UK tends to focus on stopping sexual behavior, while the Netherlands focuses on building self-esteem and healthy relationships.\n\nLatin America has come to international attention due to its harsh anti-abortion laws. Latin America is home to some of the few countries of the world with a complete ban on abortion, without an exception for saving maternal life. In some of these countries, particularity in Central America, the enforcement of such laws is very aggressive: El Salvador and Nicaragua have drawn international attention for strong enforcement of their complete bans on abortion. In 2017, Chile relaxed its total ban, allowing abortion to be performed when the woman’s life is in danger, when a fetus is unviable, or in cases of rape.\n\nIn Ecuador, education and class play a large role in the definition of which young women become pregnant and which do not - 50% of young women who are illiterate get pregnant, compared to 11% of girls with secondary education. The same is true for poorer individuals - 28% become impregnated while only 11% of young women in wealthier households do. Furthermore, access to reproductive rights, including contraceptives, are limited, due to age and the perception of female morality. Health care providers often discuss contraception theoretically, not as a device to be used on a regular basis. Decisions concerning sexual activity often involve secrecy and taboos, as well as a lack of access to accurate information. Even more telling, young women have much easier access to maternal healthcare than they do to contraceptive help, which helps explain high pregnancy rates in the region.\n\nRates of adolescent pregnancy in Latin America number over a million each year.\n\nAmong sexually experienced teenagers, 78% of teenage females and 85% of teenage males used contraception the first time they had sex; 86% and 93% of these same females and males, respectively, reported using contraception the last time they had sex. The male condom is the most commonly used method during first sex, although 54% of young women in the United States rely upon the pill.\n\nYoung people in the U.S. are no more sexually active than individuals in other developed countries, but they are significantly less knowledgeable about contraception and safe sex practices. As of 2006, only twenty states required sex education in schools - of these, only ten required information about contraception. On the whole, less than 10% of American students receive sex education that includes topical coverage of abortion, homosexuality, relationships, pregnancy, and STI prevention. Abstinence-only education was used throughout much of the United States in the 1990s and early 2000s. Based upon the moral principle that sex outside of marriage is unacceptable, the programs often misled students about their rights to have sex, the consequences, and prevention of pregnancy and STIs.\n\nAbortion in the United States is legal since the United States Supreme Court decision \"Roe v. Wade\" which decriminalised abortion nationwide in 1973, and established a minimal period during which abortion is legal (with more or fewer restrictions throughout the pregnancy). That basic framework, modified in \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" (1992), remains nominally in place, although the effective availability of abortion varies significantly from state to state, as many counties have no abortion providers. \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" held that a law cannot place legal restrictions imposing an undue burden for \"the purpose or effect of placing a substantial obstacle in the path of a woman seeking an abortion of a nonviable fetus.\" Abortion is a controversial political issue, and regular attempts to restrict it occur in most states. One such case, originating in Texas, led to the Supreme Court case of \"Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt\" (2016) in which several Texas restrictions were struck down.\n\nOne of the reasons why reproductive rights are poor in many places, is that the vast majority of the population does not know what the law is. Not only are ordinary people uninformed, but so are medical doctors. A study in Brazil on medical doctors found considerable ignorance and misunderstanding of the law on abortion (which is severely restricted, but not completely illegal). In Ghana, abortion, while restricted, is permitted on several grounds, but only 3% of pregnant women and 6% of those seeking an abortion were aware of the legal status of abortion. In Nepal, abortion was legalized in 2002, but a study in 2009 found that only half of women knew that abortion was legalized. Many people also do not understand the laws on sexual violence: in Hungary, where marital rape was made illegal in 1997, in a study in 2006, 62% of people did not know that marital rape was a crime. The United Nations Development Programme states that, in order to advance gender justice, \"Women must know their rights and be able to access legal systems\", and the 1993 UN Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women states at Art. 4 (d) [...] \"States should also inform women of their rights in seeking redress through such mechanisms\".\n\nAddressing issues of gender-based violence is crucial for attaining reproductive rights. The United Nations Population Fund refers to \"\"Equality and equity for men and women, to enable individuals to make free and informed choices in all spheres of life, free from discrimination based on gender\" and \"Sexual and reproductive security, including freedom from sexual violence and coercion, and the right to privacy,\"\" as part of achieving reproductive rights, and states that the right to liberty and security of the person which is fundamental to reproductive rights obliges states to:\n\nThe WHO states:\n\nAmnesty International writes that:\n\nOne key issue for achieving reproductive rights is criminalization of sexual violence. If a woman is not protected from forced sexual intercourse, she is not protected from forced pregnancy, namely pregnancy from rape. In order for a woman to be able to have reproductive rights, she must have the right to choose with whom and when to reproduce; and first of all, decide whether, when, and under what circumstances to be sexually active. In many countries, these rights of women are not respected, because women do not have a choice in regard to their partner, with forced marriage and child marriage being common in parts of the world; and neither do they have any rights in regard to sexual activity, as many countries do not allow women to refuse to engage in sexual intercourse when they do not want to (because marital rape is not criminalized in those countries) or to engage in consensual sexual intercourse if they want to (because sex outside marriage is illegal in those countries). In addition to legal barriers, there are also social barriers, because in many countries a complete sexual subordination of a woman to her husband is expected (for instance, in one survey 74% of women in Mali said that a husband is justified to beat his wife if she refuses to have sex with him), while sexual/romantic relations disapproved by family members, or generally sex outside marriage, can result in serious violence, such as honor killings.\n\nAccording to the CDC, \"HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. It weakens a person’s immune system by destroying important cells that fight disease and infection. No effective cure exists for HIV. But with proper medical care, HIV can be controlled.\" HIV amelioration is an important aspect of reproductive rights because the virus can be transmitted from mother to child during pregnancy or birth, or via breast milk.\n\nThe WHO states that: \"All women, including those with HIV, have the right “to decide freely and responsibly on the number and spacing of their children and to have access to the information, education and means to enable them to exercise these rights”\". The reproductive rights of people living with HIV, and their health, are very important. The link between HIV and reproductive rights exists in regard to four main issues:\n\nThe WHO states that the reproductive rights and health of girls in child marriages are negatively affected.\nThe UNPF calls child marriage a \"human rights violation\" and states that in developing countries, one in every three girls is married before reaching age 18, and one in nine is married under age 15. A forced marriage is a marriage in which one or more of the parties is married without his or her consent or against his or her will. The Istanbul convention, the first legally binding instrument in Europe in the field of violence against women and domestic violence, requires countries which ratify it to prohibit forced marriage (Article 37) and to ensure that forced marriages can be easily voided without further victimization (Article 32).\n\nSexual violence in armed conflict is sexual violence committed by combatants during armed conflict, war, or military occupation often as spoils of war; but sometimes, particularly in ethnic conflict, the phenomenon has broader sociological motives. It often includes gang rape. Rape is often used as a tactic of war and a threat to international security. Sexual violence in armed conflict is a violation of reproductive rights, and often leads to forced pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections. Such sexual violations affect mostly women and girls, but rape of men can also occur, such as in Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nMaternal death is defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) as \"the death of a woman while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy, irrespective of the duration and site of the pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management but not from accidental or incidental causes.\" It is estimated that in 2015, about 303,000 women died during and following pregnancy and childbirth, and 99% of such deaths occur in developing countries.\n\nBirth control, also known as contraception and fertility control, is a method or device used to prevent pregnancy. Birth control has been used since ancient times, but effective and safe methods of birth control only became available in the 20th century. Planning, making available, and using birth control is called family planning. Some cultures limit or discourage access to birth control because they consider it to be morally, religiously, or politically undesirable. \n\nAll birth control methods meet opposition, especially religious opposition, in some parts of the world. Opposition does not only target modern methods, but also 'traditional' ones : for example, the Quiverfull movement, a conservative Christian ideology, encourages the maximization of procreation, and opposes all forms of birth control, including natural family planning.\n\nAccording to a study by WHO and the Guttmacher Institute worldwide, 25 million unsafe abortions (45% of all abortions) occurred every year between 2010 and 2014. 97% of unsafe abortions occur in developing countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. By contrast, most abortions that take place in Western and Northern Europe and North America are safe.\n\nThe Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women considers the criminalization of abortion a \"violations of women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights\" and a form of \"gender based violence\"; paragraph 18 of its \"General recommendation No. 35 on gender based violence against women, updating general recommendation No. 19\" states that: \"Violations of women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights, such as forced sterilizations, forced abortion, forced pregnancy, criminalisation of abortion, denial or delay of safe abortion and post abortion care, forced continuation of pregnancy, abuse and mistreatment of women and girls seeking sexual and reproductive health information, goods and services, are forms of gender based violence that, depending on the circumstances, may amount to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment.\" The same \"General Recommendation\" also urges countries at paragraph 31 to [...] In particular, repeal:\na) Provisions that allow, tolerate or condone forms of gender based violence against women, including [...] legislation that criminalises abortion\".\n\nAn article from the World Health Organization calls safe, legal abortion a \"fundamental right of women, irrespective of where they live\" and unsafe abortion a \"silent pandemic\". The article states \"ending the silent pandemic of unsafe abortion is an urgent public-health and human-rights imperative.\" It also states \"access to safe abortion improves women’s health, and vice versa, as documented in Romania during the regime of President Nicolae Ceaușescu\" and \"legalisation of abortion on request is a necessary but insufficient step toward improving women’s health\" citing that in some countries, such as India where abortion has been legal for decades, access to competent care remains restricted because of other barriers. WHO’s Global Strategy on Reproductive Health, adopted by the World Health Assembly in May 2004, noted: “As a preventable cause of maternal mortality and morbidity, unsafe abortion must be dealt with as part of the MDG on improving maternal health and other international development goals and targets.\" The WHO's Development and Research Training in Human Reproduction (HRP), whose research concerns people's sexual and reproductive health and lives, has an overall strategy to combat unsafe abortion that comprises four inter-related activities:\n\nThe UN has estimated in 2017 that repealing anti-abortion laws would save the lives of nearly 50,000 women a year. Unsafe abortions take place primarily in countries where abortion is illegal, but also occur in countries where it is legal, but women cannot access it because of various reasons (conscientious objectors among doctors, high prices, lack of knowledge that abortion is legal). Indeed, there are countries where the law is liberal, but in practice it is very difficult to have an abortion, due to most doctors being conscientious objectors. The fact that is some countries where abortion is legal it is \"de facto\" very difficult to have access to one is controversial; the UN in its 2017 resolution on \"Intensification of efforts to prevent and eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls: domestic violence\" urged states to guarantee access to \"safe abortion where such services are permitted by national law\". Safe and legal abortion services are often very difficult to access by women from rural areas or from lower socioeconomic backgrounds. In 2008, Human Rights Watch stated that \"In fact, even where abortion is permitted by law, women often have severely limited access to safe abortion services because of lack of proper regulation, health services, or political will\" and estimated that \"Approximately 13 percent of maternal deaths worldwide are attributable to unsafe abortion—between 68,000 and 78,000 deaths annually.\"\n\nThe Maputo Protocol, which was adopted by the African Union in the form of a protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, states at Article 14 (Health and Reproductive Rights) that: \"(2). States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to: [...] c) protect the reproductive rights of women by authorising medical abortion in cases of sexual assault, rape, incest, and where the continued pregnancy endangers the mental and physical health of the mother or the life of the mother or the foetus.\" The Maputo Protocol is the first international treaty to recognize abortion, under certain conditions, as a woman's human right.\n\nThe \"General comment No. 36 (2018) on article 6 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, on the right to life\", adopted by the Human Rights Committee in 2018, defines, for the first time ever, a human right to abortion - in certain circumstances (however these UN general comments are considered soft law, and, as such, not legally binding).\n\n\"Although States parties may adopt measures designed to regulate voluntary terminations of pregnancy, such measures must not result in violation of the right to life of a pregnant woman or girl, or her other rights under the Covenant. Thus, restrictions on the ability of women or girls to seek abortion must not, inter alia, jeopardize their lives, subject them to physical or mental pain or suffering which violates article 7, discriminate against them or arbitrarily interfere with their privacy. \"States parties must provide safe, legal and effective access to abortion where the life and health of the pregnant woman or girl is at risk, and where carrying a pregnancy to term would cause the pregnant woman or girl substantial pain or suffering, most notably where the pregnancy is the result of rape or incest or is not viable.\" [8] In addition, States parties may not regulate pregnancy or abortion in all other cases in a manner that runs contrary to their duty to ensure that women and girls do not have to undertake unsafe abortions, and they should revise their abortion laws accordingly. [9] For example, they should not take measures such as criminalizing pregnancies by unmarried women or apply criminal sanctions against women and girls undergoing abortion [10] or against medical service providers assisting them in doing so, since taking such measures compel women and girls to resort to unsafe abortion. States parties should not introduce new barriers and should remove existing barriers [11] that deny effective access by women and girls to safe and legal abortion [12], including barriers caused as a result of the exercise of conscientious objection by individual medical providers. [13]\"\n\nWhen negotiating the Cairo Programme of Action at the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD), the issue was so contentious that delegates eventually decided to omit any recommendation to legalize abortion, instead advising governments to provide proper post-abortion care and to invest in programs that will decrease the number of unwanted pregnancies.\n\nOn April 18, 2008 the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a group comprising members from 47 European countries, adopted a resolution calling for the decriminalization of abortion within reasonable gestational limits and guaranteed access to safe abortion procedures. The nonbinding resolution was passed on April 16 by a vote of 102 to 69.\n\nDuring and after the ICPD, some interested parties attempted to interpret the term ‘reproductive health’ in the sense that it implies abortion as a means of family planning or, indeed, a right to abortion. These interpretations, however, do not reflect the consensus reached at the Conference.\nFor the European Union, where legislation on abortion is certainly less restrictive than elsewhere, the Council Presidency has clearly stated that the Council’s commitment to promote ‘reproductive health’ did not include the promotion of abortion. Likewise, the European Commission, in response to a question from a Member of the European Parliament, clarified:\n\n\"“The term ‘reproductive health’ was defined by the United Nations (UN) in 1994 at the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development. All Member States of the Union endorsed the Programme of Action adopted at Cairo. The Union has never adopted an alternative definition of ‘reproductive health’ to that given in the Programme of Action, which makes no reference to abortion.”\"\n\nWith regard to the U.S., it should be noted that, only a few days prior to the Cairo Conference, the head of the U.S. delegation, Vice President Al Gore, had stated for the record:\n\n\"“Let us get a false issue off the table: the US does not seek to establish a new international right to abortion, and we do not believe that abortion should be encouraged as a method of family planning.”\"\n\nSome years later, the position of the U.S. Administration in this debate was reconfirmed by U.S. Ambassador to the UN, Ellen Sauerbrey, when she stated at a meeting of the UN Commission on the Status of Women that: \"“nongovernmental organizations are attempting to assert that Beijing in some way creates or contributes to the creation of an internationally recognized fundamental right to abortion”\". She added: \"“There is no fundamental right to abortion. And yet it keeps coming up largely driven by NGOs trying to hijack the term and trying to make it into a definition”\".\n\nCollaborative research from the Institute of Development Studies states that \"access to safe abortion is a matter of human rights, democracy and public health, and the denial of such access is a major cause of death and impairment, with significant costs to [international] development\". The research highlights the inequities of access to safe abortion both globally and nationally and emphasises the importance of global and national movements for reform to address this. The shift by campaigners of reproductive rights from an issue-based agenda (the right to abortion), to safe, legal abortion not only as a human right, but bound up with democratic and citizenship rights, has been an important way of reframing the abortion debate and reproductive justice agenda.\n\nMeanwhile, the European Court of Human Rights complicated the question even more through a landmark judgment (case of \"A. B. and C. v. Ireland\"), in which it is stated that the denial of abortion for health and/or well-being reasons is an interference with an individuals right to respect for private and family life under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, an interference which in some cases can be justified.\n\nA desire to achieve certain population targets has resulted throughout history in severely abusive practices, in cases where governments ignored human rights and enacted aggressive demographic policies. In the 20th century, several authoritarian governments have sought either to increase or to decrease the births rates, often through forceful intervention. One of the most notorious natalist policies is that which occurred in communist Romania in the period of 1967-1990 during communist leader Nicolae Ceaușescu, who adopted a very aggressive natalist policy which included outlawing abortion and contraception, routine pregnancy tests for women, taxes on childlessness, and legal discrimination against childless people. Ceaușescu's policy resulted in over 9,000 women who died due to illegal abortions, large numbers of children put into Romanian orphanages by parents who couldn't cope with raising them, street children in the 1990s (when many orphanages were closed and the children ended on the streets), and overcrowding in homes and schools. The irony of Ceaușescu's aggressive natalist policy was a generation that may not have been born would eventually lead the Romanian Revolution which would overthrow and have him executed.\n\nIn stark opposition with Ceaușescu's natalist policy was China's one child policy, in effect from 1978 to 2015, which included abuses such as forced abortions. This policy has also been deemed responsible for the common practice of sex selective abortion which led to an imbalanced sex ratio in the country.\n\nFrom the 1970s to 1980s, tension grew between women's health activists who advance women's reproductive rights as part of a human rights-based approach on the one hand, and population control advocates on the other. At the 1984 UN World Population Conference in Mexico City population control policies came under attack from women's health advocates who argued that the policies' narrow focus led to coercion and decreased quality of care, and that these policies ignored the varied social and cultural contexts in which family planning was provided in developing countries. In the 1980s the HIV/AIDS epidemic forced a broader discussion of sex into the public discourse in many countries, leading to more emphasis on reproductive health issues beyond reducing fertility. The growing opposition to the narrow population control focus led to a significant departure in the early 1990s from past population control policies. In the United States, abortion opponents have begun to foment conspiracy theories about reproductive rights advocates, accusing them of advancing a racist agenda of eugenics, and of trying to reduce the African American birth rate in the U.S.\n\nFemale genital mutilation (FGM) is defined as \"all procedures that involve partial or total removal of the external female genitalia, or other injury to the female genital organs for non-medical reasons.\" The procedure has no health benefits, and can cause severe bleeding and problems urinating, cysts, infections, and complications in childbirth and increased risk of newborn deaths. It is performed for traditional, cultural or religious reasons in many parts of the world, especially in Africa. The Istanbul Convention prohibits FGM (Article 38).\n\nBride kidnapping or marriage by abduction, is the practice whereby a woman or girl is abducted for the purpose of a forced marriage. Bride kidnapping has been practiced historically in many parts of the world, and it continues to occur today in some places, especially in Central Asia and the Caucasus, in countries such as Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Armenia, as well as in Ethiopia. Bride kidnapping is often preceded or followed by rape (which may result in pregnancy), in order to force the marriage - a practice also supported by \"marry-your-rapist law\" (laws regarding sexual violence, abduction or similar acts, whereby the perpetrator avoids prosecution or punishment if he marries the victim). Abducting of women may happen on an individual scale or on a mass scale. Raptio is a Latin term referring to the large-scale abduction of women, usually for marriage or sexual slavery, particularity during wartime.\n\nBride price, also called bridewealth, is money, property, or other form of wealth paid by a groom or his family to the parents of the woman he marries. The practice of bride price sometimes leads to parents selling young daughters into marriage and to trafficking.Bride price is common across Africa. Such forced marriages often lead to sexual violence, and forced pregnancy. In northern Ghana, for example, the payment of bride price signifies a woman's requirement to bear children, and women using birth control are at risks of threats and coercion.\n\nThe 1956 Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery defines \"institutions and practices similar to slavery\" to include:\n\nc) Any institution or practice whereby:\n\nLaws in many countries and states require sperm donors to be either anonymous or known to the recipient, or the laws restrict the number of children each donor may father. Although many donors choose to remain anonymous, new technologies such as the Internet and DNA technology have opened up new avenues for those wishing to know more about the biological father, siblings and half-siblings.\n\nEthnic minority women have often been victims of forced sterilization programs, such as Amerindian women in parts of Latin America of Roma women.\n\nIn Peru, President Alberto Fujimori (in office from 1990 to 2000) has been accused of genocide and crimes against humanity as a result of the \"Programa Nacional de Población\", a sterilization program put in place by his administration. During his presidency, Fujimori put in place a program of forced sterilizations against indigenous people (mainly the Quechuas and the Aymaras), in the name of a \"public health plan\", presented on July 28, 1995. \n\nDuring the 20th century, forced sterilization of Roma women in European countries, especially in former Communist countries, was practiced, and there are allegations that these practices continue unofficially in some countries, such as Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania. In V. C. vs. Slovakia, the European Court for Human Rights ruled in favor of a Roma woman who was the victim of forced sterilization in a state hospital in Slovakia in 2000.\n\nForced sterilization in the United States was practiced starting with the 19th century. The United States during the Progressive era, ca. 1890 to 1920, was the first country to concertedly undertake compulsory sterilization programs for the purpose of eugenics. Thomas C. Leonard, professor at Princeton University, describes American eugenics and sterilization as ultimately rooted in economic arguments and further as a central element of Progressivism alongside wage controls, restricted immigration, and the introduction of pension programs. The heads of the programs were avid proponents of eugenics and frequently argued for their programs which achieved some success nationwide mainly in the first half of the 20th Century.\n\nCompulsory sterilization has been practiced historically in parts of Canada. Two Canadian provinces (Alberta and British Columbia) performed compulsory sterilization programs in the 20th century with eugenic aims. Canadian compulsory sterilization operated via the same overall mechanisms of institutionalization, judgment, and surgery as the American system. However, one notable difference is in the treatment of non-insane criminals. Canadian legislation never allowed for punitive sterilization of inmates.\n\nThe Sexual Sterilization Act of Alberta was enacted in 1928 and repealed in 1972. In 1995, Leilani Muir sued the Province of Alberta for forcing her to be sterilized against her will and without her permission in 1959. Since Muir’s case, the Alberta government has apologized for the forced sterilization of over 2,800 people. Nearly 850 Albertans who were sterilized under the Sexual Sterilization Act were awarded C$142 million in damages.\n\nThe Catholic Church is opposed to artificial contraception, abortion, and sexual intercourse outside marriage. This belief dates back to the first centuries of Christianity. While Roman Catholicism is not the only religion with such views, its religious doctrine is very powerful in influencing countries where most of the population is Catholic, and the few countries of the world with complete bans on abortion are Catholic-majority countries, and in Europe strict restrictions on abortion exist in the Catholic majority countries of Malta (complete ban), Ireland, Andorra, San Marino, Liechtenstein and to a lesser extent Poland and Monaco.\n\nSome of the countries of Central America, notably El Salvador, have also come to international attention due to very forceful enforcement of the anti-abortion laws. El Salvador has received repeated criticism from the UN. The Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) named the law \"one of the most draconian abortion laws in the world\", and urged liberalization, and Zeid bin Ra'ad, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, stated that he was \"appalled that as a result of El Salvador’s absolute prohibition on abortion, women are being punished for apparent miscarriages and other obstetric emergencies, accused and convicted of having induced termination of pregnancy\".\n\nCriticism surrounds certain forms of anti-abortion activism. Anti-abortion violence is a serious issue in some parts of the world, especially in North America. It is recognized as single-issue terrorism. Numerous organizations have also recognized anti-abortion extremism as a form of Christian terrorism.\n\nIncidents include vandalism, arson, and bombings of abortion clinics, such as those committed by Eric Rudolph (199698), and murders or attempted murders of physicians and clinic staff, as committed by James Kopp (1998), Paul Jennings Hill (1994), Scott Roeder (2009), Michael F. Griffin (1993), and Peter James Knight (2001).\nSince 1978, in the US, anti-abortion violence includes at least 11 murders of medical staff, 26 attempted murders, 42 bombings, and 187 arsons.\n\nSome opponents of legalized abortion view the term \"reproductive rights\" as a euphemism to sway emotions in favor of abortion. National Right to Life has referred to \"reproductive rights\" as a \"fudge term\" and \"the code word for \"abortion\" rights.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "973437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=973437", "title": "Robert Berdella", "text": "Robert Berdella\n\nRobert Andrew Berdella Jr. (January 31, 1949October 8, 1992) was an American serial killer, known as The Kansas City Butcher and The Collector, who kidnapped, raped, tortured, and murdered at least six men between 1984 and 1987 in Kansas City, Missouri after having forced his victims to endure periods of up to six weeks of captivity.\n\nDescribing his murders as being \"some of my darkest fantasies becoming my reality\", Berdella pleaded guilty and was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole for the first degree murder of one of his victims, Larry Pearson, in August 1988, and would later plead guilty to one further charge of first degree murder, and four charges of second degree murder in December 1988. He died of a heart attack while incarcerated at the Missouri State Penitentiary in October 1992.\n\nBerdella became known as \"The Kansas City Butcher\" due to his practice of extensively dissecting his victims' bodies, which he would then dispose of in garbage bags, and \"The Collector\" due to both the movie which he stated was the basis of the fantasies behind the modus operandi of his crimes, and much of the evidence subsequently uncovered by investigators.\n\nRobert Andrew Berdella Jr. was born on January 31, 1949, in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, the first of two sons born to Robert Berdella Sr., a die setter for the Ford Motor Company, and Mary Berdella, a homemaker. Berdella's father was a Catholic of Italian descent, and raised his family in a deeply religious household, in which the family regularly attended mass, and both sons regularly attended religious education courses.\n\nAs a child, Berdella was intelligent, but a loner who rarely played outside his home, and seldom had friends visit to socialize. He had a speech impediment and wore thick glasses from the age of five because he was severely nearsighted. He was also diagnosed with high blood pressure for which he took several medications. In part because of this diagnosis, Berdella was largely unathletic, whereas his younger brother, Daniel (b. 1956), displayed an aptitude for various sports from an early age. As Berdella's father valued sports and physical education, he viewed his older son's lack of interest in sports as a sign of failure, and often compared him unfavorably with his younger brother. Occasionally, Berdella's father physically and emotionally abused his children, and beat them with a leather strap.\n\nBerdella performed well academically, though teachers often found him difficult to teach, in part due both his aloofness, and his being the recipient of bullying by other students. Resultantly, as a child, he also seldom socialized in social activities at school with his peers.\n\nWhen Berdella reached puberty, he discovered that he was homosexual; initially, he kept this fact a closely guarded secret, and he did not become open about his sexuality for several years. Nonetheless, in his early teens, he briefly had a girlfriend.\n\nBy his mid-teens, Berdella had begun to display a degree of self-confidence, which would often manifest itself via his attitude to other individuals in which he would exert a somewhat rude and condescending attitude—particularly toward women. He learned about cooking and art and developed showmanship. On Christmas Day 1965, the Berdella family drove to Canton, Ohio to visit relatives. That evening, Berdella's father had a heart attack. Two days later, Berdella returned to Cuyahoga Falls by himself. When he arrived home his family told him his father had died. He was 39. Berdella sought solace in his religionand later read extensively about many faithsbut became cynical about all religion.\n\nIn 1965, Berdella saw the film adaptation of the John Fowles book \"The Collector\". The plot of this movie revolves around a lonely male who stalks, then abducts a young woman he finds attractive, and holds her captive in his windowless, stone basement, viewing her as little more than an attractive specimen. After several weeks, the female captive dies of a contracted illness despite her captor's efforts to keep her alive. Berdella later stated this movie had formed a lasting impression on him.\n\nShortly after the death of Berdella's father, his mother remarried. This act was met with resentment by her older son, who viewed the move as a form of betrayal against his father. As a result, Berdella became increasingly withdrawn, and further immersed himself in the solitary activities he had participated in since childhood such as painting, collecting coins and stamps, and writing to foreign pen pals. Berdella would later claim that his hobby of writing to pen pals in countries such as Vietnam and Burma and the fact these pen pals would send him stamps for his collection, and photographs of mythical and historical icons, ancient cultures, and architecture would lead to his developing an avid interest in primitive art, photographs, and antiques. From approximately 1965, he would begin avidly collecting these artifacts; this practice would later inspire him to open his own business in 1982.\n\nIn the summer of 1967, Berdella graduated from Cuyahoga Falls High School. Throughout his studies in high school, he had earned such excellent grades and displayed such potential that in 1966, one teacher had placed him in an independent study program. Shortly after graduation, Berdella relocated to Kansas City. Here, he enrolled in the Kansas City Art Institute, with aspirations of becoming a college professor. In his first year at the Kansas City Art Institute, Berdella was considered an attentive and talented student, although by his second year in art school, Berdella became vocally anti-authoritarian. He also became acquainted with a clique of students who supplied him with drugs which he then sold to other students at a profit. As such, he acquired a reputation among his fellow students as a minor drug dealer. In addition, he began regularly abusing alcohol. He also engaged in acts of animal torture on at least three occasions while a student at the Kansas City Art Institute; during two of these instances, he tortured a duck and a chicken in the presence of his peers, and in the third instance, he experimented with sedatives and tranquilizers on a dog.\n\nAt the age of 19, Berdella was arrested for attempting to sell methamphetamines to an undercover officer; he was released after posting a $3,000 bond (), and would later plead guilty to the offense and was handed a five-year suspended sentence. One month after this first arrest, Berdella and two other students were arrested for possession of marijuana and in Johnson County. On this occasion, Berdella could not post bond, and he spent five days in jail, although the charges against him and one of the other students would be dropped due to a lack of evidence.\n\nIn 1969, Berdella voluntarily withdrew from the Kansas City Art Institute after receiving harsh criticism from college administrators for killing, then cooking a duck for the sake of art. He chose to remain in Kansas City and in September of that year, he moved into an address located within the Hyde Park district of Kansas City: 4315 Charlotte Street. Having by this stage long been open about being gay, Berdella began spending much of his free time with male prostitutes, drug addicts, petty criminals, and runaways. These individuals he would typically befriend, then try to help free them from their drug addictions and general lethargic or criminal lifestyles, and he was adamant that, throughout much of the 1970s, he had no physical contact whatsoever with any of these individuals. To several of his neighbors, Berdella stated he gradually almost felt like a foster parent to many of these youths. Nonetheless, by the early 1980s, many of his older acquaintances had ceased any form of social contact with him, thus meaning Berdella increasingly relied on these young men as a source of companionship and friendship. He would retrospectively claim to have become increasingly frustrated at many of these individuals' collective ignorance to his efforts to assist them to steer their lifestyles away from harm and deterioration, and their basic flouting of him.\n\nDespite these later claims to investigators, Berdella would often engage in sexual relations with several of these individuals, and would establish a degree of control over them—in part to engage in these sexual relations—via methods including loaning them money, and allowing them to live rent free at his house for periods of time.\n\nTo his neighbors, Berdella was considered a flamboyant, yet helpful and civic-minded individual, despite the generally unkempt state of his property, and his somewhat haughty attitude. Beginning in the late 1970s, Berdella would assist in the organizational activities of the South Hyde Park Crime Prevention and Neighborhood Association; becoming their chairman in the early 1980s and encouraging neighborhood‑watch patrols. (He remained active in this association until the mid-1980s, when he relinquished his position within the organization.) Berdella would also represent his neighborhood at fundraising events for a local public television station, although he would also disengage himself from these events by the mid-1980s.\n\nShortly before Berdella had moved into his Charlotte Street address, he began working as a short-order cook in various restaurants around Kansas City—in part to help pay the lawyer fees and fines accrued from the drug arrests he had endured at age 19. As a means of obtaining additional income, he also sold arcane items of art and antiques he had accrued and collected across then-recent years from contacts he had established in Africa, Asia, South America, and various Pacific Rim countries. He would initially operate this side-business from his home. Both his career and side-business gradually flourished, and by the mid-1970s, Berdella began working as a senior cook at several renowned Kansas City restaurants; also joining a local chefs' association, and helping establish a training program for aspiring chefs at a local community college. Simultaneously, as his own business began to burgeon, he began to devote more of his attention to his own business as opposed to his work as a chef. By 1981, he had established several contractual agreements with both national and international contacts for his own business. He viewed this business as his full-time job and later ceased working as a chef.\n\nIn 1982, Berdella began renting his own booth at the Westport Flea Market. This store was named Bob's Bazaar Bizarre, and primarily sold and traded primitive art, jewelry, and antiques. Although occasionally making a generous monthly profit, the income he typically generated via this business was often not sufficient to maintain his daily expenses and to make ends meet. Resultingly, Berdella would occasionally have to either sell goods to fellow merchants at a profit loss, or steal or scavenge for items to sell at his booth. Additionally, he would often take lodgers at his home as a means of gaining additional income.\n\nAt his work premises, Berdella became acquainted with a fellow merchant named Paul Howell, who operated a booth adjacent to his own. Soon, Berdella became acquainted with Paul Howell's younger son, Jerry. Initially, Jerry Howell and his friends scathed and taunted Berdella over his overt homosexuality, although according to Berdella, Jerry Howell later confided in him that he and his friends occasionally earned money as male prostitutes.\n\nBy the early 1980s, Paul Howell had relocated his business from the Westport flea market to a store within a building located close to the intersection of 39th and Main Street. His family had also moved into an apartment above the shop, and despite his younger son occasionally engaging in heated arguments with Berdella, they would invariably reignite a casual friendship—often via Berdella offering his legal or financial assistance should Jerry endure minor scrapes with the law. By the summer of 1984, Jerry Howell had turned 19.\n\nBerdella is believed to have killed his first victim on July 5, 1984. His first known victim was 19-year-old Jerry Howell, with whom he had become closely reacquainted in the year prior to his murder and whom he abducted on the promise of driving the youth to attend a dancing contest in Merriam. According to Berdella, he plied Howell with alcohol, Valium and acepromazine both in his car and at his house until the youth became unconscious. He then injected Howell with a heavy tranquilizer before binding the youth to his bed.\n\nHowell was restrained to Berdella's bed for a period of approximately 28 hours. Throughout this period of captivity, Berdella repeatedly drugged, tortured, raped and violated the youth with foreign objects, repeatedly ignoring Howell's intermittent questioning as to why he was being treated in this manner, and pleas to be freed before, according to Berdella, the youth \"either asphyxiated on [his own] vomit, or the combination of the gag and the medicines were too strong for him to be able to catch breath\". Berdella would later state that he did briefly attempt to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation upon Howell after he had died before dragging his body to the basement. He then suspended Howell's body above a large cooking pot and made several incisions to the youth's inner elbows and jugular vein, before leaving the body suspended in this position overnight to allow the blood to drain from his corpse. The following day, he dismembered Howell's body using a chainsaw and boning knives, before wrapping the sections in newspaper and trash bags. These bags were later placed inside larger trash bags which Berdella placed outside for a garbage crew to collect and take to a landfill.\n\nLater questioned by officers investigating Howell's disappearance, Berdella claimed to have driven the youth to Merriam as promised, and that the two had parted company close to Howell's intended destination. Berdella further claimed he had not seen the youth since.\n\nAs would be the case with all Berdella's murders, he kept a detailed log in which he documented each act of sexual and physical torture inflicted upon his victim. Berdella would recall that—like the subsequent victims he would hold captive—Howell had repeatedly pleaded for his ongoing abuse and torture to cease throughout the period of his capture, although he (Berdella) would either ignore these pleas, taunt his victim, or threaten him. He would remain adamant to investigators that this would be not for his enjoyment, but what he termed his \"physical and mental satisfaction\".\n\nOn April 10, 1985, a former lodger of Berdella's, 23-year-old Robert Sheldon, arrived on his doorstep, asking if he could again stay at his house for short period of time. According to Berdella, although Sheldon was responsible in paying rent, he considered him \"an inconvenience\" and, although he was not physically attracted to this victim, chose to drug and hold him captive on April 12 when he returned home from work to find Sheldon intoxicated in his home. Berdella was adamant he held no firm malice toward Sheldon, but saw him as an individual upon whom he could \"express some of the anger and frustration that I had toward other people on\". Sheldon was drugged with sedatives and held captive in the second floor bedroom for three days, enduring forms of torture such as the swabbing of drain cleaner in his left eye, the insertion of needles beneath his fingertips, the binding of his wrists with piano wire with the intention of permanently damaging the nerves in his hands, and filling his ears with caulking to reduce his hearing capacity.\n\nThree days after Berdella had begun holding Sheldon captive, on April15, a workman came to perform some scheduled work on the roof of his home, leading Berdella to choose to fatally suffocate Sheldon by placing a sack over his head, which he then tightened with a piece of rope. He later dissected Sheldon's body in the third floor bathroom.\n\nThe following June, Berdella found Mark Wallace (whom he vaguely knew via Wallace having previously helped him with yard work) hiding in his tool shed to seek shelter from a severe thunderstorm. As had been the case with Robert Sheldon, Berdella invited him inside his house, and, noting Wallace's acute state of tenseness and depression, volunteered to inject him with chlorpromazine with the explanation this would \"calm down and relax\" him. Wallace willingly accepted the offer and, 30 minutes later, Berdella decided to render him captive. Wallace was carried to the second floor bedroom where he endured almost a day of captivity and torture including the application of alligator clips to his nipples to facilitate electrical shocks to his body at any point at which he (Wallace) began regressing into a state of unconsciousness. According to Berdella, one hour after his \"experimenting\" with hypodermic needles by inserting them into various muscles upon his victim's back, Mark Wallace died through a combination of \"the drugs, the gag, and the lack of oxygen\". He noted this victim's time of death as being 7:00 p.m. on June 23.\n\nOn September 26, 1985, Berdella answered a phone call from an acquaintance named James Ferris, who asked to stay at Berdella's home for a short time. Berdella accepted with the specific intention of kidnapping Ferris, whom he arranged to meet at a bar that evening. Despite the brutality to which he had subjected his first three victims, Berdella claimed that Ferris was the first victim upon whom he intentionally inflicted torture. He also informed investigators there were occasions during his final three victims' periods of captivity when he ceased making additions to his abuse logs because he assumed the victim would not \"be able to make it much longer\".\n\nBerdella brought Ferris home and drugged him with crushed tranquilizers he had concealed in a meal, then tied him to his bed before torturing him almost constantly for approximately 27hours. The torture included repeated administering of 7,700-volt electrical shocks to the shoulder and testicles for up to five minutes in each instance, and acupuncture via hypodermic needles to the neck and genitals. Ferris gradually became delirious, but Berdella continued his physical and sexual assaults until he noted in his log that Ferris was \"Unable to sit up more than \". The next entry read \"Very delayed breathing\", and finally, Berdella noted that Ferris died with a slang term he had used in his career as a chef, \"86\", which Berdella later explained \"meant anything from 'Throw it out' to 'Stop the project.\n\nTodd Stoops was a drug addict and sometime prostitute who, alongside his wife, had twice lived briefly at Berdella's house in 1984. After Stoops and his wife moved out of Berdella's home the second time, Berdella did not see him again until a chance encounter at KansasCity's Liberty Memorial Park on June 17, 1986. Berdella invited him to his house with an offer of lunch, with an added incentive of sex as Stoops stated he needed $13 to purchase drugs (equivalent to $ in ). \n\nBerdella would later stress to investigators he had been extremely physically attracted to Stoops, and this victim was held captive for two weeks before he died, with him gradually increasing his captive's terror to make him a cooperative and incapacitated sex slave. Berdella used electrical shocks through Stoops's closed eyes in an attempt to blind him and injected drain cleaner into his larynx to try to silence his screaming.\n\nDuring the second week of his capture, Stoops asked Berdella for a soft drink and sandwich. When Berdella refused, Stoops burst into tears. On June 27, he ruptured Stoops' anal wall with his fist, causing bleeding and discharge. Towards the end of Stoops's captivity, he tried to feed his captive ice cream and soup, although Stoops \"wasn't able to keep anything down\". By the final day of his captivity, Stoops was so weak Berdella later stated he had been unable \"to breathe in a sitting position\". On July 1, 1986, Stoops died; a forensic pathologist later testified that the ruptured anal wall caused septic shock which proved fatal.\n\nIn the spring of 1987, Berdella became friendly with a 20-year-old named Larry Wayne Pearson. This casual friendship began when Pearson entered his shop and explained to Berdella that, as a child, he had held an interest in both witchcraft and wizardry. Shortly thereafter, Pearson temporarily lodged with Berdella, and willingly performed chores around his home as a means of paying rent. According to Berdella, he did not initially intend to capture this individual, but formed the plan to do so on June 23 when, having bailed Pearson out of jail, the young man began jokingly referring to his practice of robbing gay men in Wichita. That evening, Berdella ensured Pearson became intoxicated before injecting him with chlorpromazine and moving him down to his basement, where he bound Pearson's hands above his head, then linked the rope he had used for this purpose to a brick column, before injecting Pearson's larynx with drain cleaner. He then brought an electrical transformer to the basement.\n\nAccording to Berdella, Pearson was by far the most cooperative of his six murder victims. On the fifth day of his captivity, having by this stage endured torture such as the repeated administration of electrical shocks with the transformer, and the breaking of several hand bones with an iron rod to render him submissive, Berdella deduced Pearson had earned his trust as to his continued cooperation in his sexual and physical abuse; as a form of reward, Pearson was moved to the second floor, with Berdella first informing Pearson that if he continued to cooperate, he (Berdella) would not continue to inflict as much pain upon him as he had done so while he had been held captive in the basement. Throughout the latter part of his six weeks of captivity, Pearson trained himself to sleep without moving, in order that he did not antagonize Berdella and thus invite further torture or being returned to the basement.\n\nAfter six weeks of captivity, in an act of despair, Pearson deeply bit into Berdella's penis before screaming he could not continue to tolerate being treated in this manner. In response, Berdella killed Pearson by first bludgeoning him into unconsciousness with a tree limb, then suffocating him with a bag and ligature, before driving to hospital to receive treatment for his wound. Pearson's body was later dismembered in the basement, and his head initially stored in a plastic bag inside Berdella's freezer, before being buried in the backyard.\nAt 1:00 a.m. on March 29, 1988, Berdella abducted his last victim, a 22-year-old male prostitute named Christopher Bryson, whom he lured to his house upon the promise of payment for sex. At Berdella's home, Bryson was knocked unconscious with an iron bar, then bound to Berdella's bed, where he was subjected to similar methods of abuse and torture endured by previous victims, although in Bryson's case, Berdella repeatedly swabbed his eyes with ammonia, before exclaiming to him: \"The only things you need to think about are you, me, and this house.\"\n\nAfter several days, Berdella explained to Bryson he had begun to \"trust\" his captive, and that although he was willing to discuss aspects of the abuse and torture he was receiving, there would be no negotiations pertaining to his sexual abuse. Berdella finished this discussion with a stern warning: \"I've gotten this far with other people before, and they're dead now, because of mistakes they made.\"\n\nBy the third day of his capture, Bryson had earned sufficient trust from Berdella to persuade him to establish a daily regime of tying his hands in front of him after his sexual abuse rather than above his head and to the bed upon the excuse that his (Berdella's) doing so was restricting the circulation to his arms; he had also persuaded Berdella to leave a television on within the room, with the remote control placed between his legs whenever Berdella was out of the room. However, he would later state to investigators that he had thought almost constantly about escaping. The following day, he managed to break free of his restraints by burning through them using a book of matches Berdella had inadvertently left in the room and within his reach when he had left the house to go to his place of work.\n\nBryson then managed to escape from the house by jumping from a second floor window, wearing nothing besides a dog collar around his neck, breaking a bone in his foot in the process; he then ran toward a meter reader walking across the other side of the street, shouting for this individual to call the police. This individual led Bryson to the house he had been approaching, whereupon the occupants promptly called the police, who arrived minutes later.\n\nQuestioned at the scene by four officers, Bryson initially claimed he had been hitchhiking when abducted by Berdella, who had kidnapped, raped, and tortured him for four days before he had managed to escape by jumping from a window on the second floor of the property. Furthermore, this individual had kept him bound to a bed on the second floor of the house throughout much of the time he had been held against his will, repeatedly sodomizing him, drugging him, and injecting his throat with drain cleaner to diminish his ability to speak loudly. As Bryson spoke, the officers also noted that in addition to the dog collar and broken foot, Bryson had red, swollen eyes, and visible scars and welts across his entire body. Two officers were told to maintain a discreet surveillance of the property, as Bryson was driven to the Menorah Medical Center, accompanied by a third officer, for treatment as the fourth officer radioed the Kansas City Police Department to request a formal search warrant of the property be drafted.\n\nLater questioned in greater detail at the Kansas City Police Department, Bryson again stated he had been held against his will by the occupant of 4315 Charlotte Street, who had subjected him to four days of repeated sexual abuse, humiliation, and torture. Bryson further divulged that this individual had also shown him Polaroid images of men who appeared to be deceased, with the explanation these had been previous individuals he had unsuccessfully attempted to \"collect\" as his sexual slaves. Furthermore, this individual had informed Bryson he had no intention of ever allowing him to leave his property, and that he had claimed to have killed the previous individuals he had captured and treated in this manner, and that if he (Bryson) became a nuisance or threat to him, he would either be subjected to greater levels of torture than what he had already endured, or simply killed.\n\nOn the afternoon of Bryson's escape, Berdella was arrested on charges pertaining to the sexual assault of Christopher Bryson. He declined to allow officers inside his home, and the search warrant earlier requested was drafted to search his property. Corroborating Bryson's claims of having been restrained and tortured in a second floor bedroom, investigators discovered the bedroom on the second floor was found to have burnt ropes attached to the posts at the foot of the bed. Also in the room was an electrical transformer, plugged into a wall, and with wires leading to the bed. A metal tray containing syringes, small bottles apparently containing prescription drugs, swabs, and eye drops were also close to the bed. Also found in the room were a long iron pipe, various lengths of rope, and leather belts. Investigators also noted that although Bryson's restraints had been tied to posts at each corner of the bed, other posts on the bed had been extensively worn, suggesting that restraints had earlier been tied to these posts, and that the individual or individuals had struggled to free themselves.\n\nSearching elsewhere in the house and grounds of 4315 Charlotte Street, investigators uncovered a human skull inside a closet on the second floor of his property, and a partially decomposed human head in the backyard. The search also uncovered several human vertebrae scarred by both hacksaw and knife marks stowed in a hallway, and several human teeth stowed in two envelopes. Both a hacksaw and a miter saw were discovered in the basement of the property, and a chainsaw was also found to be soiled with bloodstains, flesh, and pubic hairs. Luminol tests revealed that the floor of Berdella's basement, and two plastic trash barrels, were extensively bloodstained.\n\nA total of 334 Polaroid pictures and 34 snapshot prints of various male individuals were also found stowed in various locations within Berdella's house; these images depicted Christopher Bryson and several other individuals both in life and in death, and many of the images had been taken as the subjects had been tortured. The search also uncovered numerous restraining and sexual devices; pornographic literature; hypodermic needles; and a book devoted to the creation and remedies of narcotics. Atop a chest of drawers in one bedroom, officers discovered a stenographer's pad containing the detailed torture logs he had maintained for each victim, several newspaper clippings from \"The Kansas City Star\" regarding a missing young man named Jerry Howell, and both a wallet and a driving license belonging to a missing person named James Ferris was discovered in a closet on the second floor of the property.\n\nBefore the search of Berdella's property had concluded, the Kansas City Police Department assembled a special task force of 11 detectives and one sergeant to focus exclusively on Berdella's case. This task force extensively researched Berdella's history, discovering that he was a well-known individual among Kansas City's male hustlers, having earned a reputation for preying on transient young men. Several of these male prostitutes were also reluctant to accept him as a client both because of his penchant for drugging, injecting, and torturing his sexual partners and acquaintances, and also because he had long been considered a suspect in the disappearance of the two men whose personal possessions had been found in his house (Jerry Howell and James Ferris). Missing person reports had been filed in relation to both these men, and Berdella had been extensively questioned in relation to both of these disappearances. In both instances, he had denied having anything to do with the individual's disappearance. Despite being considered a prime suspect in both cases, and being placed under surveillance, police had been unable to find any solid evidence linking him to either man's disappearance, and in both instances, after giving his initial statement to police, Berdella had indignantly refused to talk further without a lawyer present. He would later have his lawyer threaten to file harassment accusations against police unless their questioning and surveillance of him ceased.\n\nJames Ferris's wife identified him in several instant photos found at Berdella's property; some taken after her husband's death. Paul Howell formally identified one picture of a young man hanging upside down in Berdella's basement as depicting his son. Several other Polaroid images depicted as-yet unidentified young men, and several detectives were assigned the task of identifying each individual depicted to determine if he was alive or dead, and if alive, the circumstances surrounding his depiction. As several of these images depicted a section of the body of the individual who had taken the photograph, on April 13, Berdella was ordered to pose nude for a series of photographs in order that portions of his body could be photographed in the precise angle depicted within these images for comparison with the original Polaroid images.\n\nAs numerous male names had been found scrawled upon various stenographer's pads at Berdella's address, the detectives began attempting to trace each individual. One of these individuals traced, a young man named Freddie Kellogg, was able to state to detectives he and several other young men had intermittently lodged with Berdella since the early 1980s, and that he (Berdella) had been in the habit of plying his lodgers with drugs—typically intravenously—before engaging in sex with them regardless of whether they consented or not. Kellogg also stated Berdella had expressly stated that a condition of his lodging with him was for Kellogg to persuade young men whom he (Berdella) found attractive to attend parties at Charlotte Street in order that Berdella could drug them. Should Berdella ever discover any of these individuals was a police informant, he would use this knowledge as a tool in which he could blackmail the individual to his own advantage. In spite of this condition of his living with Berdella, Kellogg further stated that numerous male prostitutes and addicts had been reluctant to engage in any form of contact with Berdella because of rumors regarding his links to the 1984 disappearance of Jerry Howell.\n\nIn addition to these disclosures, Kellogg was able to name three of the individuals depicted in the Polaroids as being Todd Stoops, Robert Sheldon, and Larry Wayne Pearson. These investigators would shortly discover Berdella had paid a $30 fee to secure a bond for Pearson in June 1987 (), and that no further records existed to indicate Pearson was still alive. Nonetheless, investigators did discover that, in August 1987, Berdella had filed an assault report from a hospital room in which he alleged a man named \"Larry Person\" had deeply bitten his penis during oral sex, causing a serious laceration. An interview with Robert Sheldon's employers at a Kansas City manufacturing plant had confirmed the young man had been a reliable employee of theirs, but that he had suddenly ceased attending work in April 1985.\n\nShortly after the search of 4315 Charlotte Street had concluded, Berdella was informed of the discoveries at his property. The same afternoon he was ordered to pose for the series of nude photographs for comparison with the Polaroid images he had taken, investigators attempted to conduct their first formal investigation with him, although Berdella simply invoked his right to silence in this setting. (Investigators later sought to obtain handwriting samples from Berdella in an effort to prove he had written the notes found within the various stenographer's pads discovered at his house; he refused to cooperate and was sentenced to six months in jail for contempt of court.)\n\nBerdella was initially formally charged with one count of felonious restraint, one count of assault, and seven counts of forcible sodomy, as investigators continued their investigations into the discoveries at his property, and formally compiled further charges against him. He was assigned a temporary public defender as his legal representative, and held in protective custody in a Jackson County jail in lieu of $500,000 bail ().\n\nIn late April, the skull found inside Berdella's closet was identified via dental X-rays obtained via subpoena from the University of Kansas Medical Center as that of Robert Sheldon. The same day a dental identification was made upon Sheldon's skull, two men separately phoned the Kansas City Police Department to state one of seven unidentified young men depicted in a photographic array released to the media on April 27 was a former high school acquaintance of theirs named Mark Wallace. When a detective traced Wallace's sister, she stated her brother had been missing since mid-1985. Shortly thereafter, investigators discovered that photograph \"D\" released to the media in this same array was one Larry Wayne Pearson. As Pearson had once been a ward of the court in Wichita, his dental records were discovered and compared with the skull found in Berdella's backyard.\n\nBerdella would be formally charged with the murder by dismemberment of Larry Wayne Pearson in July after the head discovered in his backyard was formally identified as that of Pearson on May 12, and prosecutors had gathered sufficient circumstantial evidence to accompany the physical evidence retrieved.\n\nOn July 22, 1988, a grand jury formally indicted Berdella for the murder of Larry Wayne Pearson. The following month, he was arraigned and pleaded guilty in the 4th Circuit of the Jackson County Court before Judge Alvin C. Randall to the first degree murder of Larry Pearson. The plea was entered following a late-morning recess in the arraignment hearing into this particular murder, and came as a surprise to both the judge, and prosecuting attorneys. The prosecution team assigned to the case accepted the plea, with assistant prosecutor Pat Hall later explaining this decision as being \"in the best interest of our client, [and] the people of the state of Missouri\".\n\nFollowing the submission and acceptance of this plea, the judge insisted that Berdella confess under oath as to Pearson's death. In response to questioning by his attorneys, Berdella stated: \"I put a plastic bag over his head, and tied it with rope and allowed him to suffocate.\" When asked if he performed this act deliberately, and with malice aforethought, Berdella simply stated, \"Yes.\" He was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. Upon being sentenced, Berdella was transferred to the Missouri State Penitentiary, to commence his life sentence. He would later be temporarily placed in protective custody at the Potosi Correctional Center, due to concerns for his safety.\n\nA second guilty plea submitted before the Jackson County Court on August 24 earned Berdella a further life term without parole for one charge of forcible sodomy against Christopher Bryson (six counts of sodomy and one charge of assault being dropped as part of a plea bargain); he would also receive a further term of seven years pertaining to one count of felonious restraint against Bryson on this date.\n\nDespite initially pleading not guilty to the remaining five murder charges on September 13, 1988, with the agreement of his two defense attorneys, Berdella ultimately conducted a plea bargain with the prosecutors to avoid the death penalty in these remaining charges. In this plea bargain, Berdella agreed to confess in graphic detail as to precisely whom he had killed, precisely what indignities he had subjected each victim to, how he had killed each victim, and what he had done with their bodies. These confessions were given to prosecutors between December 13 and December 15, 1988. In return for his cooperation, the prosecution agreed not to seek the death penalty at a formal hearing scheduled for 9 a.m on December 19.\n\nOn December 19, 1988, Berdella formally waived his rights to be tried for any of the outstanding murder charges, upon the understanding he was to be convicted of one further count of first degree murder (that of Robert Sheldon), and four counts of second degree murder. He formally pleaded guilty to each of these charges before Judge Robert Meyers in the Jackson County Circuit Court. Members of the public were prohibited from attending this hearing, with only family members of his victims and news reporters permitted access to the proceedings. In response to these guilty pleas, Judge Meyers imposed five further concurrent life sentences, with an additional condition barring any future prospect of parole in the sole case of first degree murder to which he pleaded guilty.\n\nIn the testimony Berdella provided to prosecutors between December 13 and 15 when he had changed his mind as to his plea and sought approval upon their agreement not to seek the death penalty against him if he fully confessed, Berdella claimed the movie he had first seen in 1965, \"The Collector\", had left a major impression on him and that, following the senses of shock and disgust he claimed to have initially experienced after killing his first victim, had resurfaced in his memory and subsequently became a motivating psychological force in the actions he exhibited against his victims in his subsequent murders. His victims, he stated to investigators, had lost any degree of humanity in his eyes once he had chosen to render them captive.\n\nIn reference to the coded notations within the actual torture logs, Berdella confessed that many of the abbreviated entries were simply shorthand terms for methods of abuse he had inflicted upon his victims, whereas others would describe either their reactions to these ongoing acts of abuse and torture, or his initial observations upon viewing them when he entered the room where he had kept them restrained. The entry reading \"CP\", for example, had referred to the injections of chlorpromazine he had injected into his victims to assist in his restraining them, whereas entries reading \"DC\" would refer to the swabbing of their eyes with drain cleaner or the injection of the substance into their vocal cords. Entries reading \"EK\" or \"EKG\" had referred to the method of torture administered to his captives with electrical shots, whereas several other entries also contained the anatomical location where Berdella had administered the abuse or torture to his victims. For example, at one point in relation to victim James Ferris, Berdella had written an entry reading: \"2 1/2 ket nk + shoulder\" to indicate he had injected 2.2 cubic centimeters of ketamine into his victim's neck and shoulder. Other entries such as \"gag loose, no resist in retie\" or \"very delayed breathing, snoring\" were more self-explanatory. (Investigators had consulted a specialist in toxicology in their investigation into Berdella following his arrest. This individual had stated that, judging by the notes he had written upon victim Robert Sheldon, the accumulation of chlorpromazine injected into this victim had been toxic.)\n\nFurthermore, Berdella confessed to having alternately buried the two victims' heads in his backyard, adding that he had retrieved and cleaned the first skull—that of Robert Sheldon—at the time he had buried victim Larry Pearson's head in the same hole. Sheldon's skull was that which he had placed inside a closet on the second floor of his property, in an area of the household Berdella referred to as \"my gallery area\", with the teeth removed and stowed inside envelopes in the same room, and that he had intended to retrieve Pearson's skull once sufficient time had elapsed for it to skeletonize, although he was adamant there had been no rational or sinister reason for his doing so. In addition, he vehemently denied media rumors that he had been engaged in any form of satanism, or that he had sold sections of his victims' bodies at his flea market booth.\n\nBerdella was able to name all of his victims to investigators. Although one victim (Mark Wallace) had been seized by opportunity when he had discovered him seeking shelter from a severe thunderstorm in his tool shed, his other five victims had been captured after he had unsuccessfully tried to steer them away from their general lifestyles, and had thus simply become frustrated at the failure of his efforts. Upon each victim's capture, Berdella described in graphic detail the sexual, physical and emotional abuse he had subjected the victim to, and which he had recorded within his torture logs. He tersely explained his successive actions to investigators on December 14 with the statement that he was \"capturing them first, and what developed developed.\" Nonetheless, he did claim that he had tried to prevent any of his victims from developing any form of malnutrition or infection by occasionally administering antibiotics, or nutrients intravenously as his abuse and torture escalated.\n\nThe methods of torture exhibited against his victims had included the administration of high-voltage electrical shocks, the starvation of his captive, the application of alkali-based detergents to their throats, vocal cords, or eyes, and the bludgeoning of their hands with the intention of rendering these body parts unusable. One other method of torture had been the insertion of needles beneath their fingernails. Furthermore, Berdella confessed that the level of abuse he inflicted had increased with each successive victim, and he had viewed the Polaroid images he had taken of his victims as being a \"trophy or record of the event\".\n\nAlthough police had extensively searched for the remains of Berdella's victims throughout their initial investigation into his crimes, the confession Berdella provided to investigators in the autumn of 1988 had confirmed the dismembered bodies of all six of his victims had been stowed in trash bags and subsequently taken to a landfill. Consequently, their bodies were never recovered.\nIn the years following his 1988 convictions and incarceration, Berdella both granted an interview to the Kansas-based television station \"KCPT\", and corresponded with numerous individuals. To all concerned, he attempted to restore his image as a \"sensitive citizen\" who had simply \"made mistakes\" in committing his crimes. He further claimed he had been unfairly demonized by the media before, during, and after his arraignments and plea bargains, and that police ineptitude had resulted in his being allowed to remain at liberty following his first murder.\n\nBerdella also lodged several complaints with prison officials regarding prison conditions. He had also written several letters to a local minister claiming that prison officials knew of his high blood pressure, yet were not providing him with his prescribed heart medication.\n\nIn 1992, Robert Berdella contacted the counselor he met when first incarcerated, Rev. Roger Coleman. He informed Coleman of his distress due to staff at the Missouri State Penitentiary withholding his heart medication.\n\nAt 2:00 p.m. on October 8, 1992, Berdella complained to prison staff of heart pains, and was taken from his cell to the prison infirmary. Medical staff determined his heart was unstable and called an ambulance. Berdella was taken to a hospital in Columbia, Missouri, where he was pronounced dead from a heart attack at 3:55 p.m. He was 43 years old.\n\nShortly after Berdella's death, the judge at his trial, Alvin Randall, was informed of his passing. In response, Randall sarcastically remarked: \"Couldn't have happened to a nicer guy.\"\n\nAccording to published reports, although Berdella suffered from a depressive personality disorder, he was also a diagnosed sexual sadist who gained extreme sexual excitation from the humiliation, pain and torture he had submitted his victims to. Moreover, despite his claims to media individuals whom he had contacted in the years of his incarceration, he had never expressed any degree of remorse for his actions, and would tersely refer to his victims as \"play toys\" in an interview he granted shortly before his death.\n\n\nBy the time of Berdella's April 1988 arrest, he had abducted, tortured and murdered at least six young men (although the Kansas City Police Department suspect Berdella of involvement in two other disappearances). In addition, despite the fact that more than 20 different men had been depicted in postures suggesting unconsciousness or death within the 334 Polaroid images and 34 snaphot prints seized from 4315 Charlotte Street following his arrest, Berdella was adamant the six individuals identified as victims and which he had confessed to killing were all those he had killed.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30734850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30734850", "title": "Thak man-eater", "text": "Thak man-eater\n\nThe Thak man-eater was a female Bengal tiger who killed and ate four human victims (two women, two men) between September and November 1938. She was operating in Kumaon, at the Nepalese border, between the villages Thak, Chuka, Kot Kindri and Sem. The tigress was shot at about 6:00pm on 30 November 1938 by Jim Corbett. This was the last man-eater killed by Corbett. The story about Thak man-eater is known as one of the most dramatic stories about man-eating animals. It was the last story in the USA edition of the bestselling book \"Man-Eaters of Kumaon\" (published by Oxford University press in 1944). In the UK edition the last story of the book was \"Just Tigers\". The book \"Man-Eaters of Kumaon\" became the book of the year in USA in 1945, and a Hollywood film \"Man-Eater of Kumaon\" was made in 1948.\n\nThe information about the female tiger, known as Thak man-eater, comes from two documented stories written by hunter, conservationist and author Jim Corbett. In a story about the Chuka man-eating tiger (from the book \"Temple Tiger and other Man-Eaters of Kumaon\", published in 1954 by \"Oxford University Press\") Corbett described how he saw for the first time a female tiger which later became known as \"The Thak man-eater\". According to the story, in April 1938 Corbett was concealed on a machan waiting for the Chuka man-eating tiger, but instead of a male man-eater a female tiger with two young cubs appeared. Corbett described in detail how the tigress was teaching cubs to move silently through the jungles, leading them towards the concealed kill (a carcass of a cow), and on a final stage of the search letting cubs to find the kill themselves, coordinating their search with occasional vocal signals. After cubs found the kill, she went to sleep close to the tree where Corbett was concealed. After the cubs finished feeding, she licked both of them clean and then the family left. Corbett’s description is one of the first detailed accounts of how female tigers teach their cubs behavioral patterns necessary for the survival of the tigers in the wild. \nThe second source about the tigress is a story \"Thak man-eater\" from the bestselling book \"Man-Eaters of Kumaon\" (published in 1944 by Oxford University Press). According to Corbett, between April and September the tigress was apparently shot and wounded twice from a muzzle-loaded gun. One of the wounds to the left shoulder of the tigress became septic, incapacitating her at least for some time to hunt her usual prey. That was, according to Corbett, the reason the tigress started attacking humans, particularly as she had cubs to feed. Female tigers are known sometimes to resort to man-eating when they are partly incapacitated while raising cubs.\nCorbett was asked to track down and kill the man-eater after the very first human kill. It was unusual for India to react so promptly to the killing of a first human victim by an animal. The reason for this was that next to the remote villages of Chuka and Thak, where the man-eater was operating, the government decided to fell trees and thousands of workers were planned to work in the area from November 1938. Governmental officials wanted to get rid of the man-eater in order not to hamper forest works. As Corbett noted in the story, he agreed to go after the tigress primarily because he wanted to help villagers to get rid of her.\nCorbett made two hunting expeditions to the villages of Chuka, Thak and Sem (23 October – 7 November, and 24–30 November). He finally managed to kill the tigress on 30 November 1938, on the very last day of his second hunting expedition, and the last day of his career as a hunter of man-eating tigers and leopards.\n\nThe story \"Thak man-eater\" was written by Corbett as a fully documental account of his hunt after the tigress. For the moment of writing and publishing the book \"Man-Eaters of Kumaon\" (1944), this story was the most recent hunt for Corbett, and unlike many other stories, where even the date of killing of the man-eater is not specified, this story has unprecedented number of exact dates and details.\n\nFrom the very first day of hunting Corbett realized that the tigress was in return hunting him and his men. Corbett was finding her pug-marks following him wherever he went, so he had to be extremely careful not to become a victim. Two wounds, received by the tigress earlier at the kill, made her very suspicious of everything and she was not coming back to her kills. This made hunting her particularly difficult, as the most popular way to kill a man-eater is to ambush a tiger at a kill. The village Thak was abandoned because of the fear of the man-eater, and the doors of many houses were left open. Tiger pug-marks were throughout the village streets and open doors, so Corbett had to be very careful not to give a chance to the tigress to attack him. Pug-marks were also often found near the tents where Corbett and his men were sleeping during his first hunting expedition, at the confluence of the Ladhya and Sarda rivers, near the village Sem. \nApart from villagers, the tigress terrorized a five-thousand-strong work-force who were working in a nearby Kumaya-Chak, where thousands of trees were being felled. On one occasion the tigress came close to a building where workers were stationed, and workers started shouting at her to drive her away. Instead, very unnaturally for tigers, who usually avoid groups of shouting humans, this shouting infuriated the tigress and she came closer and with her roaring cowed thousands of workers into silence. \nAccording to Corbett, one of the cubs of the tigress, which Corbett saw together with his mother in April, was still around in October–November (the other one must have died). Corbett saw on many occasions the pug-marks of a young male tiger in October and November. November is a mating season for tigers, so the tigress’s calls were often heard. Corbett failed to kill the tigress during all three weeks of hunting. On the last evening of his hunt, 30 November, Corbett conceded defeat. After collecting his men and his two goats and walking to his camp with the decision to leave early morning next day, Corbett heard the tigress calling for a mate again. Corbett decided to try to deceive the tigress by calling himself as a male tiger, as a last chance to get a shot at her. The tigress responded to Corbett's call and during the next 30 minutes she was gradually approaching Corbett and his men. Corbett was on a path between the villages Thak and Chuka when he heard the first call of the tigress, so finding a place to meet the unsuspecting man-eater became crucial for him. He decided to meet her at a four-foot-high rock on an eastern side of the rectangular piece of flat land about 800 meters from the village of Thak, at the path from Thak to Chuka. Sitting sideways on a narrow ledge on the rear side of the rock, Corbett was holding himself awkwardly with his left hand and outstretched right foot, placing his rifle on the top of the rock. The light was fading, and as Corbett did not have a lighting device, he was afraid that the tigress would appear too late and he would be unable to see and shoot her in the dark. This would have left Corbett and four of his men at a mercy of a man-eating tigress, enraged by her failed attempt to find a mate.\nFortunately for Corbett, the tigress appeared in front of the rock in the dying seconds of the fading light, and Corbett killed her with two bullets at close range. The recoil of the shots knocked Corbett from the ledge where he was sitting, and he fell on top of his four men and two goats, who were sitting silently under the rear side of the rock, terrorized by the roar of the approaching tigress.\n\nThis was the last man-eating tiger killed by Corbett, ending his 32 years career of hunting man-eating tigers and leopards. Corbett was 63 at the time. After just days of this hunt Corbett started a major project of filming the tigers in their natural environment with a newly available at that time \"cinema-camera\". Also, two years before this hunt, in 1936, with a major contribution from Jim Corbett, the first National Park in India, designed to save a tiger population (today this park is known as Corbett National Park) was established.\n\nThe rock, where Corbett met and killed the Thak man-eater, became a source of much research, speculations and controversy. Peter Byrne, professional hunter and author, who investigated most of the Corbett hunting sites, showed in his book a few pictures of a big rock with a ledge as a site of killing of the Thak man-eater. Thak villagers showed this rock to Byrne in 1975 This rock does not coincide with several important details of Corbett’s description, and as a result, Peter Byrne's account of Corbett's hunt differs from Corbett's own account in many details (for example, according to Byrne, Corbett was standing behind the rock, not sitting on the ledge, and also, according to Byrne, Corbett did not fall after shooting, as there is no space for falling behind the rock). In the recent years Chuka villagers were showing Corbett fans another rock, closer to the village Thak, as the killing site of the Thak man-eater. This rock was found by a Corbett expert Sid Annand, and also has many discrepancies with Corbett’s description. As Corbett was widely known for his legendary honesty, and as his hunting accounts are regarded fully documental, disappearance of this famous rock, described in Corbett's story, was confusing. On 20–22 January 2011 Joseph Jordania did a detailed research of the path between Thak and Chuka. Following the description given by Corbett, he found a rock that coincide with Corbett's description in most important details. He proposed that the path from Thak to Chuka have changed since 1938, and the killing site of the Thak man-eater is today about 25 meters away from the currently existing path (and about 40 meters south-east from the Peter Byrne's rock). On 9–12 April 2012 an international group of Corbett fans restored the falling space behind the rock, and affixed a memorial plate to the rock's western face. Unfortunately this particular rock proved to be at the wrong place (too close to village). Another Corbett researcher, Quinton Ottley followed Corbett's description and found the place that corresponds precisely to Corbett words. Quinton measured the area carefully and used all available satellite coordinates, and a new plaque was placed to mark the spot. Unfortunately, the rock itself, found by Quinton, has several elements that does not correspond Corbett's description (the height of the rock, the unstable position of Corbett behind the rock, leading to his fall, and the falling space itself). \n\nNew field research to the Thak village was carried out by several Corbett researchers in April 2018. Researchers failed to reach the final conclusion, as both rocks have details that do not coincide with Corbett words. According to the preliminary conclusion, Quinton Ottley's rock is at a right distance from the Thak village, but the rock itself does not corresponds the description from the story. On the other hand, the rock, found by Joseph Jordania, corresponds precisely to the details how Corbett placed awkwardly himself behind the rock and fell on top of his men after he fired tow bullets that killed the Thak man-eater, but fails to be on a right distance from the Thak village. Research continues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "181601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181601", "title": "The Edge (1997 film)", "text": "The Edge (1997 film)\n\nThe Edge is a 1997 American survival film directed by Lee Tamahori and starring Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin. Bart the Bear, a trained Kodiak bear known for appearances in several Hollywood movies, also appears in the film as a vicious grizzly; this was one of his last film roles.\n\nCharles Morse (Anthony Hopkins), a billionaire, Robert \"Bob\" Green (Alec Baldwin), a photographer, and Stephen (Harold Perrineau), Bob's assistant, arrive in a remote Alaskan village with Charles' wife, Mickey (Elle Macpherson), a model. Styles (L.Q. Jones), the proprietor of the lodge, warns everyone about not leaving uncovered food that will attract bears. Charles is surprised with a birthday party where Mickey gives him an engraved pocket watch and Bob gives a hunting knife.\n\nDuring a photo shoot, Charles observes Bob and Mickey kissing platonically. The three men fly to a location to find a local Alaskan man (Gordon Tootoosis), for photographs. A note on his door indicates he is miles away bear hunting. They fly north where the man is supposed to be hunting. During the flight, Charles asks Bob how he is planning to kill him. Before Bob can answer, the plane strikes a flock of birds and nose-dives into a lake, killing the pilot. Charles, Bob, and Stephen barely reach shore.\n\nThe three men attempt to hike to a more likely search area, only to find a vicious male Kodiak bear stalking them. While crossing a makeshift bridge, Charles falls into the rapids. Bob saves him, leaving Charles doubting his earlier suspicions about Bob's intentions. The group becomes lost. That night, the bear attacks, killing Stephen and chasing the other two away.\n\nThe two men see a rescue helicopter in the distance. They attempt to flag it down, but the pilot does not see them, leaving them reduced to finding their own way out.\n\nThe bear finds Charles and Bob again. Charles decides that they must bait the bear and kill it in order to survive. The bear begins attacking Bob but Charles distracts the bear, luring it away. Charles wedges his spear between rocks allowing the bear to use its own weight to fatally wound itself after rearing up.\n\nFollowing the river south, the men find an empty cabin. Charles notices a deadfall, while Bob rushes into the cabin. They find supplies, including a canoe, rifle, and ammunition. While Bob is checking if the canoe was usable, Charles finds a receipt in his pocket to use as tinder. The receipt contains information confirming his suspicions about his wife's infidelities with Bob.\n\nWhen Bob returns to the cabin, he reveals that he plans to kill Charles for his wife. He orders Charles outside, but before he is able to kill him, Bob accidentally falls into a deadfall. Bob is badly injured and begs Charles for his help. Charles removes Bob from the pit and tends to his wounds. They go downriver in the canoe together.\n\nCharles makes camp with a fire to keep Bob warm. Bob apologizes for betraying Charles and says Mickey was unaware he intended to murder him. A helicopter appears and Charles successfully attracts its attention, but Bob dies before he can board.\n\nCharles is brought back to the lodge and reveals to his wife that he is aware of her betrayal by handing her Bob's watch. He states to the press that the other men died, \"saving my life.\"\n\nPrincipal photography began on August 19, 1996. Footage was taken primarily in Alberta, Canada. Among the Alberta locations were Banff National Park, Canmore, Edmonton, Thunderstone Quarries, Fortress Ski Resort and Allarcom Studios. Additional scenes were shot in Yoho National Park and Golden, both in British Columbia. Filming ended on November 22, 1996.\n\nThe shooting of the film is discussed by Art Linson in his 2002 book \"What Just Happened?\", later made into a film starring Robert De Niro. Initially called \"Bookworm\", the script was turned down by Harrison Ford and Dustin Hoffman before Alec Baldwin settled on the role of Green. De Niro showed some interest in the role of Morse but ultimately declined. Baldwin's unwillingness to shave a beard that he had grown for the role is reenacted by Bruce Willis in Barry Levinson's adaptation of Linson's book.\n\nLike many other actors who had worked with Bart the Bear, Baldwin was extremely impressed with how well-trained and docile the bear was. Baldwin commented that Bart \"should send the film editor a fruit basket every day for making him look so scary.\" As for Hopkins, who had worked with Bart in \"Legends of the Fall\", he \"was absolutely brilliant with Bart,\" according to trainer Lynn Seus, who went on to say that Hopkins \"acknowledged and respected (Bart) like a fellow actor. He would spend hours just looking at Bart and admiring him. He did so many of his own scenes with Bart.\"\n\nThree months before the film was to be released, the studio felt \"Bookworm\" needed a more commercial title. Dozens of others were considered, according to Linson, until the film was renamed \"The Edge\".\n\nThe film's musical score was composed by Jerry Goldsmith, who worked closely with director Lee Tamahori to develop a score more diverse than other works by Goldsmith in the 1990s. Initially, the score was released on CD in 1997, upon the film's release, by RCA Records. Over time, the first release went out of print, leading to La-La Land Records issuing a limited 3500-unit pressing of the complete score, which was also out of print by July 2013. The new release contains 25 minutes of unreleased music and fixes a problem found on the RCA release affecting the track \"Rescued\", which contained rustling noises during some quieter parts.\n\nRCA Records track list:\n\nLa-La Land Records track list:\n\nBonus tracks:\n = Previously unreleased\n\nThe Edge had its premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival in Canada on September 6, 1996. It was released in the U.S. on September 26, 1997 in 2,351 theaters. It grossed $7.7 million in its opening weekend. It went on to gross $27.8 million in the U.S. and $15.4 million overseas, for a worldwide total of $43.3 million in its theatrical run.\n\nUpon release, \"The Edge\" received mixed to positive reviews from critics. Based on 49 reviews collected by Rotten Tomatoes, the film received a 63% approval rating from critics, with an average score of 6.4/10. Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film 3 out of 4 stars, claiming the filmmakers did well by not going berserk with the action sequences as other films do. But, he did go on to criticize the ending by saying that:\n\nFollowing its initial release on VHS, \"The Edge\" was released on a non-anamorphic widescreen NTSC DVD in the US, with no extras, save the original theatrical trailer. Meanwhile, PAL DVDs released in Europe, Australia, etc. feature an anamorphic transfer, the trailer, a six-minute featurette, seven short cast and crew interviews and five text biographies. As of 2017, it has also been released on Blu-ray in the US and Germany, with the same extras as each country's DVD.\n"}
{"id": "49079847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49079847", "title": "The Good Place", "text": "The Good Place\n\nThe Good Place is an American fantasy-comedy television series created by Michael Schur. The series premiered on September 19, 2016, on NBC.\n\nThe series focuses on Eleanor Shellstrop (Kristen Bell), a woman who wakes up in the afterlife and is introduced by Michael (Ted Danson) to \"The Good Place\", a highly selective Heaven-like utopia he designed, as a reward for her righteous life. She realizes that she was sent there by mistake and must hide her morally imperfect behavior and try to become a better, more ethical person. William Jackson Harper, Jameela Jamil and Manny Jacinto co-star as other residents of \"The Good Place\", together with D'Arcy Carden as Janet, an artificial being helping the inhabitants.\n\n\"The Good Place\" received positive reviews upon its debut and has since gained critical acclaim. It has been praised for its acting, writing, originality, setting, and tone. In addition, its first-season twist ending and its exploration and creative use of ethics and philosophy have been positively received.\n\nIn November 2017, NBC renewed the series for a 13-episode third season, which premiered on September 27, 2018.\n\nAfter her death, Eleanor Shellstrop is welcomed to her afterlife in \"The Good Place\" (opposed to \"The Bad Place\") by Michael, an immortal architect, who built a specifically designed afterlife community that strives to accommodate everyone's specific tastes. Michael introduces Eleanor to Janet, an artificial intelligence that serves as a guide and repository of knowledge and can produce anything asked for out of thin air, and her assigned soulmate, a university ethics professor named Chidi Anagonye. Eleanor tells Chidi that she has been mistaken for someone else and he agrees to teach Eleanor to become a better person to earn her place for real. Her neighbor is introduced to her as a silent Buddhist monk named Jianyu Li, whose soulmate is socialite Tahani Al-Jamil. Jianyu reveals that he is actually a dimwitted DJ from Florida named Jason Mendoza, who also believes he has been sent to The Good Place by mistake. As Chidi continues to teach Eleanor and then Jason ethics lessons, Tahani tries to work out a way in which Eleanor and Jason can be allowed to stay in The Good Place. When those efforts prove fruitless, an eternal judge named Shawn rules that Eleanor and Jason must be sent to the Bad Place. In the season finale's twist ending, Eleanor deduces that the four have actually been in The Bad Place all along. Michael reveals his demonic plot to have the four human inhabitants torture each other for all eternity emotionally and psychologically. He then announces his intent to wipe their memories and separate the four to try again.\n\nMichael repeatedly attempts the experiment in human torture again with variations of the neighborhood, but the group figures out the truth each time. After 802 fruitless attempts, the other demons stage a coup against Michael and threaten to inform his boss about the repeated failures if he doesn't implement their ideas instead. Michael decides to team up with the four humans and promises to get them all into the real Good Place. The group later escapes with Michael's help, and they attempt to get to the Good Place by appealing to Gen, an entity known as the judge. Gen is not convinced that the improvements the four of them have shown are due to them being good people but instead she believes that their changes are due to their desire for \"moral desert\". She gives tests to each human which play to their weaknesses and everyone except Eleanor fails. Michael appeals and Gen agrees to send them all back to Earth with no memories of the afterlife and Michael intervening to rescue them each from their deaths. After a false start, Michael intervenes again and points Eleanor in the direction of Chidi, which reignites her passion for ethics and causes her to seek out Chidi.\n\nEleanor, Chidi, Tahani, and Jason have been sent back to Earth in order to determine whether a second chance at life allows them to become better versions of themselves. Realizing that they fall back into their old patterns, Michael repeatedly interferes without Gen's knowledge to manipulate them to find each other. They all end up in Sydney where Chidi teaches and become participants in a study about near-death experiences and ethical decision making. After Trevor, a demon from the Bad Place, attempts to break up the group from the inside, he, Michael, and Janet are all called in by the Judge for their meddling. After Gen banishes Trevor, Janet and Michael escape to Earth with the key needed to travel between worlds. They spend the next year monitoring and interfering in the lives of the four humans to keep the group together before ultimately being discovered. Michael and Janet are forced to admit the truth about the group's experiences in the afterlife, forever corrupting their motivations and rendering them incapable of earning enough points to enter the Good Place. Eleanor persuades Chidi, Tahani, and Jason to instead spend their time left on Earth helping other people become ethical enough to get into the Good Place. Meanwhile, Michael and Janet tracked down Doug Forcett in Canada, where they soon discover that his life isn’t as perfect as they expected, and must find a way to change the outcome. Shawn, still upset over Michael's betrayal, figures out a way to get to Earth without a key. He and his fellow demons enter Earth with a scheme to not only retrieve the group, but to go after their loved ones and Doug, forcing the team to escape to Janet's pocket dimension using the key.\n\n\n\nNBC issued a press release on August 13, 2015, announcing it had given the then-untitled show a 13-episode order based purely on a pitch by Michael Schur. On January 12, 2016, it was announced that Kristen Bell and Ted Danson had been cast in the lead roles for the series. The first synopsis of the show was also released, stating that the show was set to revolve around Eleanor designing her own self-improvement course with Michael acting as her guide – although the afterlife element had always been a part of the series, as Kristen Bell has stated she was aware of the first-season finale twist when she signed onto the show.\n\nWilliam Jackson Harper was cast as Chris on February 11, 2016, though the character was renamed Chidi. Jameela Jamil was cast as Tessa on February 25, 2016, and her character was renamed Tahani. On March 3, 2016, Manny Jacinto was revealed to have been cast as a \"sweet and good-natured Jason\" whose \"dream is to make a living as a DJ in Southern Florida\". On March 14, 2016, D'Arcy Carden was cast in a series regular role that was announced as \"Janet Della-Denunzio, a violin salesperson with a checkered past\" – although writer Megan Amram later admitted that this was an intentional hoax.\n\nThe final premise for the show, including the afterlife element, was ultimately announced on May 15, 2016, when NBC announced its schedule for the 2016–17 TV season.\n\nAccording to Schur, the premise and idea was to include religious elements into the series after doing research on various faiths and groups, but he decided to scrap the plans, instead going for a concept that included all faiths that was diverse and free of religious views. \"I stopped doing research because I realized it's about versions of ethical behavior, not religious salvation,\" he says. \"The show isn't taking a side, the people who are there are from every country and religion.\" Schur also points out that the setting (shot in San Marino, California's Huntington Gardens) already had the feeling of a pastiche of different cultures, stating that the neighborhoods will feature people who are part of nondenominational and interdenominational backgrounds that interact with each other regardless of religion.\n\nThe series' setting and premises, as well as the serialized cliffhangers, were modeled on \"Lost\", a favorite of Schur. One of the first people he called when he developed the series was \"Lost\" co-creator Damon Lindelof. \"I took him to lunch and said, 'We're going to play a game [of] 'Is this anything?'\" He then added \"I imagine this going in the \"Lost\" way, with cliffhangers and future storylines.\"\n\nThe first season's surprise twist, that the Good Place was the Bad Place, and Chidi, Eleanor, Jason and Tahani were the four souls chosen because they were best suited to torture each other indefinitely, is very similar in premise to philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre's stage play \"No Exit\", in which three strangers die, are escorted to a single room by a friendly bellhop where they are informed they must co-exist together, but ultimately determine they are entirely incompatible and thus come to the conclusion that \"hell is other people\". The only actors who knew the truth from the start were Danson and Bell.\n\nCritics have also suggested resemblances to 1960s surreal TV show \"The Prisoner\" in its isolated, rule-bound setting.\n\nThe series premiered on September 19, 2016. On January 30, 2017, NBC renewed the series for a second season of 13 episodes, which premiered on Wednesday, September 20, 2017, with an hour-long premiere before moving to its normal time slot on Thursday at 8:30 pm, beginning September 28, 2017. On November 21, 2017, NBC renewed the series for a 13-episode third season, which premiered on September 27, 2018.\n\nFrom the start of the series' second season in September 2017, Netflix distributed it to various international markets, with new episodes being released a few hours after their original American airing.\n\nThe first season was released on DVD in region 1 on October 17, 2017. The second season was released on DVD on July 17, 2018.\n\n\"The Good Place\" has received positive reviews from television critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, the first season has a rating of 91%, based on 58 reviews, with an average rating of 7.84/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Kristen Bell and Ted Danson knock it out of the park with supremely entertaining, charming performances in this absurd, clever and whimsical portrayal of the afterlife.\" On Metacritic, the first season has a score of 78 out of 100, based on reviews from 32 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nThe editors of \"TV Guide\" placed \"The Good Place\" second among the top ten picks for the most anticipated new shows of the 2016–17 season. In its review from writer Liam Matthews, \"NBC's new comedy has an impressive pedigree\" (referring to Mike Schur and stars Kristen Bell and Ted Danson, the latter cited as \"arguably the greatest sitcom actor of all time\"). Matthews concludes, \"The hope is that their combined star power can restore NBC's tarnished comedy brand to its former glory. It won't be the next \"Friends\", but it's something even better: a network comedy that feels different than anything that's come before.\"\n\nThe second season received critical acclaim. On Rotten Tomatoes, the second season has a rating of 100%, based on 51 reviews, with an average rating of 8.72/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"By voluntarily blowing up its premise, \"The Good Place\" sets up a second season that proves even funnier than its first.\" On Metacritic, the second season has a score of 87 out of 100, based on reviews from 10 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim\".\n\nThe third season has also received critical acclaim. On Rotten Tomatoes, the third season has a rating of 100%, based on 23 reviews, with an average rating of 9.17/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Charming and curious as ever, \"The Good Place\" remains a delightfully insightful bright spot on the television landscape.\" On Metacritic, the third season has a score of 96 out of 100, based on reviews from 5 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim\".\n\nMultiple critics have praised the show for its exploration and creative use of ethics and philosophy. Featured topics include the trolley problem thought experiment (originally devised by Philippa Foot), the categorical imperative (first formulated by Immanuel Kant), T. M. Scanlon's \"What We Owe to Each Other\", and the works of Aristotle and Søren Kierkegaard. Andrew P. Street of \"The Guardian\" wrote that \"moral philosophy is the beating heart of the program\" and that the show \"made philosophy seem cool.\" Elizabeth Yuko of \"The Atlantic\" noted that \"\"The Good Place\" stands out for dramatizing actual ethics classes onscreen, without watering down the concepts being described, and while still managing to be entertaining.\" For their part, several philosophers have celebrated the show's largely accurate popularization of their line of work while noting some minor inaccuracies.\n\nSeveral critics have noted that \"The Good Place\" is notable for its eschewing of antiheroes and cynical themes in favor of likable characters and a positive message. James Poniewozik of \"The New York Times\" explained that \"the most refreshing thing about \"The Good Place\", in an era of artistic bleakness, is its optimism about human nature. It's made humane and sidesplittingly entertaining television out of the notion that people – and even the occasional immortal demon – are redeemable.\" Jenna Scherer of \"Rolling Stone\" wrote that \"The Good Place\" proves that \"slapstick and banter can coexist alongside tragedy and hardship – that a show doesn't need to be self-serious to be serious-minded.\" Erik Adams of \"The A.V. Club\" praised the show as portraying an \"uncommonly decent TV world\". Stuart Heritage of \"The Guardian\" called \"The Good Place\" \"relentlessly optimistic\", a quality which Stephanie Palumbo of \"Vulture\" called \"a salve for despair in the Trump era\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5509936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5509936", "title": "The Treacle People", "text": "The Treacle People\n\nThe Treacle People was a children's television programme shown on CITV in the United Kingdom, from 3 May 1996 to 25 July 1997. It had two series, each with 13 episodes, before being cancelled due to poor ratings. In a similar vein to other shows by the same writer, the humour worked on two levels for younger and older viewers. It was produced by The London Studios for London Weekend Television (Granada Television produced the second series) and Fire Mountain Productions in association with Link Entertainment.\n\nThe show was written by Brian and Johnathan Trueman (the former of whom was the writer of Danger Mouse) and was based in a fictionalized version of the Northern English village of Sabden, in Pendle, where treacle is (allegedly) a natural resource extracted through mines. However, the mines have run dry from overextraction, and the village may face destruction from a lack of economy. The main characters Wizzle and Rosie use a Treacle finder, similar to a water dowser, to discover a vein of treacle in the abandoned mines, bringing hope to the village. The two series focus on reopening the mines, and problems faced (such as exportation). One of the recurring support characters was the Moobark, a cross between a Friesian cow and an Airedale Terrier.\n\nThere is an official website still maintained (but not updated) featuring the second episode of the first series, known as \"The Great Escape\".\n\nEpisode List\n\nSeries 1 (1996)\n\n1. \"Treacle Trouble\" - Times are hard for The Treacle People. The once-great treacle mines are running dry and the treacle industry is in crisis. Only Bill Wizzle and his treacle-tracker are their only hope on finding new supplies. (3rd May 1996)\n\n2. \"The Great Escape\" - Having found treacle in the mines, the sticky heroes also discover that they can't get out. But thanks to the Professor, two old mine carts and a sack of bubbles, all is not lost... (10th May 1996)\n\n3. \"Trouble at t'Mill\" - Silas gives Rosie and Wizzle a job helping in the treacle mill but with Bert the Boggart causing all sorts of chaos, Silas discovers they are better off unemployed than employed. (17th May 1996)\n\n4. \"Up, Up and Away!\" - The Professor builds a balloon to export the treacle, but PC Pendle and Bert accidentally take it for unauthorized test drive... (24th May 1996)\n\n5. \"Double Digging\" - Having failed to export the treacle from the valley via the balloon, Tapper and Ike decide to dig a tunnel. (31st May 1996)\n\n6. \" It Must Be Fete\" - The villages hold an ill-fated fete, with over-competitive competitors, misjudged judging and a band that should be banned. (7th June 1996)\n\n7. \"Stormy Weather\" - When rain stops play, Wizzle goes to rescue Moobark and ends up trapped in a ginger beer flood. (14th June 1996)\n\n8. \"Revolting Boggarts\" - There's trouble when the Boggarts revolt and run riot in Bessie. Luckily, Silas is there to negotiate, even more luckily, Rosie is there to stop him. (21st June 1996)\n\n9. \"What's the Drill?\" - The Professor's latest invention the \"Frothmatic Turbo Drill\" causes chaos by tunneling through treacle and wrecking rocks. (28th June 1996)\n\n10. \"Sticky Like Us\" - The Professor's super sticky treacle vapour has everybody stuck. How will the villagers get unstuck? (5th July 1996)\n\n11. \"Where's Charlie?\" - Charlie leaves the \"Bubble and Boggart\" after constant harassment off Lil, and goes to seek his fortune, but only finds misfortune when he ends up at Nellie Newchurch's Perfect Parkin Parlour. (12th July 1996)\n\n12. \"Slippery Slopes\" - Silas tries to make a fortune out of waffles and when that ends in disaster, Tapper accidentally makes and artificial Ski Slope with the remaining waffles, much to Rosie's delight. (19th July 1996)\n\n13. \"Show up For Showdown\" - Will the sticky heroes survive the village show? And what on Earth are they going to do with 300 tonnes of candyfloss? (26th July 1996)\n\n14. Christmas Special - \"A Sticky Christmas\" - It's Christmas time in Sabden, and the Professor has invented a weather making machine to create snow. But when the machine smothers the sky full of thick fog and snow clouds, Rosie worries that Santa will not find the village and not deliver everybody's presents.\n\nSeries 2 (1997)\n\n1. \"One Flu Over the Boggart's Nest\" - When all the Boggarts in Sabden are sick, Brendan's Scottish cousin, \"Digger\" comes over and brings his special recipe cure, porridge. (2nd May 1997)\n\n2. \"Digger Digs In\" - Now Digger has taken up residence in Sabden, he must find a job. Silas is reluctant to employ him at first but Digger mentions he is not interested in any wages and just wants a roof over his head and plenty of unpaid work, much to Silas' delight.\nUnfortunately, Pendle causes a stir the next morning when he accidentally causes the Bubble and Boggart to blow up whilst hitting a pressure cooker full of porridge. (9th May 1997)\n\n3. \"Just the Job\" - Rosie, Wizzle and Tapper help to fix the \"Bubble and Boggart\". Whilst Lil takes refuge from Nellie Newchurch, but it isn't long until their at each other's throats once again. (16th May 1997)\n\n4. \"Loose Change\" - The Professor's changing formula liquid accidentally gets mixed in with a batch of Silas' black pudding ginger beer and soon nearly everybody except Rosie, Bert, The Prof and Brendan has changed their natural personalities. Can the Prof find a way to get them back to normal? (23rd May 1997)\n\n5. \"Scares and Stripes\" - PC Nicko Pendle needs to have made 100 arrests by the end of the day to be promoted to sergeant. He soon finds excuses to arrest everybody in Sabden, and when there is no one else left, he even arrests himself! unfortunately there are some real criminals on the loose and they take advantage of having the empty village to themselves. (30th May 1997)\n\n6. \"Smug Smugglers\" - Barrow and Furness, the robbers on the loose, wire into Silas' telephone connection and trick Lil into thinking Furness is Silas and asks for a barrow full of treacle butties to be left by the mine. When the real Silas finds out, he realizes something is afoot and the villagers get their own back on the two villains. (6th June 1997)\n\n7. \"The Quest for the Golden Nugget!\" - Wizzle's treacle tracker finds a treasure chest buried in the moors. Inside the chest is a map claiming there is a golden nugget somewhere in the mine. Silas and the other villagers are soon on the trail, but so is Barrow and Furness... (13th June 1997)\n\n8. \"A Grim Day Out\" - When all the villagers except Digger, go away for the day on Bessie. Barrow and Furness take advantage of having the village all to themselves. But when they get back, the thieves find themselves in a rather sticky situation and so does PC Nicko Pendle... (20th June 1997)\n\n9. \"Sounds Crazy\" - Rosie and Wizzle use the Professor's new sound sponge to record all the sounds of Sabden. (27th June 1997)\n\n10. \"Rollercop\" - When Nicko Pendle requests a form of transport from his stingy superior, Chief Inspector Foulridge. The double-dealing detective gives Nicko a rather humiliating gift, a pair of roller-blades! (4th July 1997)\n\n11. \"EuroBoggarts\" - Silas wants Tapper and Digger to dig a tunnel to France to export their treacle and so that French tourists can visit Sabden. (11th July 1997)\n\n12. \"It's a Funny Old Game!\" - The villagers play against the boggarts in a football match. But those cheeky boggarts decide to play unfairly... (18th July 1997)\n\n13. \"Sticky Like One!\" - Silas asks Wizzle to build a statue of the person who has brought the most fame and fortune to Sabden. However, Silas is not best to pleased when he sees who the statue, Wizzle built is actually of! (25th July 1997)\n\nThe rights to The Treacle People is now owned by Shepperton Studios-based production company, Fire Mountain Productions Limited. Fire Mountain Productions was set up by the show's producer, Iain Russell.\n\nThe Treacle People, followed up by a Christmas special, was BAFTA nominated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29805215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29805215", "title": "Topographical disorientation", "text": "Topographical disorientation\n\nTopographical disorientation, also known as topographical agnosia and topographagnosia, is the inability to orient oneself in one's surroundings as a result of focal brain damage. This disability may result from the inability to make use of selective spatial information (e.g., environmental landmarks) or to orient by means of specific cognitive strategies such as the ability to form a mental representation of the environment, also known as a cognitive map. It may be part of a syndrome known as visuospatial dysgnosia.\n\nTopographical disorientation is the inability to orient in the surrounding as a result of focal brain damage.\nTopographical Disorientation has been studied for decades using case studies of patients who have selectively lost their ability to find their way within large-scale, locomotor environments. Several dozen case reports of topographical disorientation have been presented over the last century. Studying these people will aid in the understanding of the complex, multi-component behavior of navigation. Topographical disorientation may result from a stroke or part of a progressive illness, hemispatial neglect, dementia, Alzheimer's disease.\n\nDevelopmental topographical disorientation (DTD) refers to the inability to orient from childhood despite the absence of any apparent brain damage, neurological condition or general cognitive defects. Individuals affected by DTD are unable to generate a mental representation of the environment (i.e. a cognitive map) and therefore unable to make use of it while orienting (a process that usually people go through while orienting). Not to be confused with healthy individuals who have a poor sense of direction, individuals affected by DTD get lost in very familiar surroundings, such as their house or neighborhood, daily.\n\nEgocentric disorientation is marked by the inability to represent the location of objects with respect to self. This is usually due to lesions in the posterior parietal lobe. Patients experience no difficulty recognizing or naming people or objects. They are unable to accurately reach for visual objects and are unable to state the relationship between an objects with oneself (above, below, left, right, nearer or farther).\nIn a case study presented by Stark and colleagues, a patient named GW described the inability to accurately reach for visual targets despite normal vision. She had no difficulty recognizing and naming objects presented to her, but was unable to point to locations of targets defined by visual, proprioceptive, or audio input. The loss of an egocentric spatial representation system left her unable to position herself in space. Most indicative of her disability is that she often turned in the wrong direction when greeted by someone who she was not facing \n\nHeading disorientation is marked by the inability to represent direction of orientation with respect to external environment. This is usually due to lesions in the posterior cingulate. Patients show no signs of visuo-spatial agnosia. Patients are able to determine their location using landmarks, but are unable to determine which direction to proceed from those landmarks in order to reach their destination. They are also impaired in map drawing tasks and are unable to describe routes between familiar locations.\nTakahashi and colleagues presented three cases of focal brain damage to the right retrosplenial region through a cerebral hemorrhage that caused a loss in sense of direction. All three patients showed normal visual perception, were able to identify familiar buildings and landscapes, were able to determine and remember locations of objects that could be seen from where they were standing, but were unable to recall direction from selective familiar landmarks. Symptoms of topographical disorientation disappeared in all three patients after two months.\n\nLandmark agnosia is marked by the inability to recognize salient environmental stimuli such as landmarks. This is usually due to lesions in the lingual gyrus. Patients are able to draw detailed maps and visualize places familiar to them before the illness. They can distinguish between classes of buildings, such as house or skyscraper, but are unable to identify specific buildings, such as their own house or famous landmarks. Patients can navigate using strictly spatial information and specific details of landmarks such as house number or door color.\nC. A. Pallis described a patient, A.H., who presented with color, face and landmark agnosia as a result of a cerebral embolism. \nAnterograde disorientation is marked by the inability to orient in new environments. This is usually due to lesions in the parahippocampus. Patients were able to navigate through and draw maps of environments learned at least 6 months before the damage. Teng and colleagues tested a profoundly amnesic patient who has complete bilateral damage to the hippocampus and extensive damage to adjacent structures in the medial temporal lobe. The patient was able to recall the spatial layout of his hometown where he moved away from 50 years ago, before he became amnesic. The patient has no knowledge of his current neighborhood, where he moved to after his injury. The finding indicates that the medial temporal lobe is not needed for the retrieval of spatial maps learned prior to injury. However, the hippocampus and other surrounding structures are essential for the formation of long-term declarative memories, including spatial memories.\n\nTopographical disorientation is usually diagnosed with the use of a comprehensive battery of neuropsychological tests combined with a variety of orientation tasks performed by the participants in both virtual and real surroundings. Performance on certain tests can identify underlying neurological disorders and verify the disorientation as a selective impairment. Brain imaging is used to determine regions of brain damage, if any. Navigational skills can be assessed by tests pertaining to memory, visual-perceptual abilities, object recognition, mental rotation, imagery abilities, and spatial abilities. More direct testing of navigation involves asking the patient to describe a route, read a map, draw a map, follow a route, or point out landmarks.\n\nTreatment for topographical disorientation has been achieved through a case by case basis. Prognosis is largely dependent on the organic cause. Neuropsychological assessment followed by an assessment of unaffected cognitive abilities can be employed in therapy. Treatment for recovering navigational skills require strengthening unaffected navigational strategies to bypass defective ones.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57802203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57802203", "title": "William Alexander (poet)", "text": "William Alexander (poet)\n\nWilliam Alexander (1808–1875) was an American poet and author.\n\nWilliam Alexander was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, December 5, 1808, andgraduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1831 with a bachelor of arts degree. After graduation, he became an \"usher in the grammar-school of the university.\" Three years later, Alexander opened an academy \"of the classical order,\" where he remained for six years. Thereafter, he became teacher of Mathematics for two years. Upon leaving this profession, he turned toward private tutoring and writing. \n\nAlexander is best known for his epic poem, \"The Christiad,\" and was a contributor to popular literary magazines such as \"Godey's Lady's Book\" and \"Graham's Magazine\". \n\nHis only published book of poetry, \"The Poetical Works of William Alexander; Including His Christiad, Dramas, and Minor Poems, with Dissertations on Poetry, and a Sketch of His Life,\" received mixed reviews. The New York \"Commercial Advertiser\" commented, \"We acknowledge...to having derived more amusement from the author's autobiography than from his metered lines.\" The criticism ends by remarking, \"The gentleman is no poet, however; he would do wisely to abandon that path and adhere to the more practical justice of a good citizen.\"\n"}
{"id": "2012427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2012427", "title": "Xavier Mertz", "text": "Xavier Mertz\n\nXavier Mertz (6 October 1882 – 8 January 1913) was a Swiss explorer, mountaineer and skier, from Basel. He took part in the Far Eastern Party, a 1912–13 component of the Australasian Antarctic Expedition, which claimed his life. The Mertz Glacier is named after him.\n\nThe son of a textile machinery manufacturer, Mertz studied patent law at the University of Bern, and science at the University of Lausanne, specialising in glacier and mountain formations. While a student, Mertz became active as a skier, competing in national competitions, and as a mountaineer, climbing many of the highest peaks in the Alps. In early 1911, Mertz was hired by geologist and explorer Douglas Mawson for his Australasian Antarctic Expedition. He was initially employed as a ski instructor, but in Antarctica Mertz instead joined Belgrave Edward Sutton Ninnis in the care of the expedition's Greenland Huskies.\n\nIn the summer of 1912–13, Mertz and Ninnis were chosen by Mawson to accompany him on the Far Eastern Party, using the dogs to push rapidly from the expedition's base in Adélie Land towards Victoria Land. After Ninnis and a sledge carrying most of the food disappeared down a crevasse, from the hut, Mertz and Mawson headed back west, gradually using the dogs to supplement their remaining food stocks. About from safety, Mertz died, leaving Mawson to carry on alone. The cause of Mertz's death has never been firmly established; the commonly purported theory is hypervitaminosis A (an excessive intake of vitamin A) from consuming the livers of the Huskies. Other theories suggest he may have died from a combination of malnutrition, a change in diet, cold exposure, and psychological stresses.\n\nXavier Mertz was born in Basel, the son of Emile Mertz, who owned a large engineering firm in the city. With the aim of working in the family business, which manufactured textile machinery, Mertz attended the University of Bern, where he studied patent law. While in Bern, he became active as a mountaineer and skier. Mertz competed in several national competitions; in 1906 he was third in the Swiss cross-country skiing championship, and second in the German championship. In 1908, he won the Swiss ski jumping championship, with a distance of . As a mountaineer, he was particularly prolific in the Alps; he climbed Mont Blanc—the highest peak in the range—and claimed several first ascents of other mountains. After he attained his degree of Doctor of Laws from the University of Bern, Mertz studied science at the University of Lausanne; he specialised in glacier and mountain formations, for which he received his second doctorate.\n\nIn early 1911, Mertz went to London to meet with the Australian geologist and explorer Douglas Mawson. Mawson, who had served as physicist during Ernest Shackleton's 1908–09 Nimrod Expedition, was planning his own Antarctic expedition. In his application letter, Mertz wrote that he hoped Mawson would be using skis, as \"they have proved so good for the purpose & knowing that I am as good as any one on skys.\" While Mawson was intending to recruit only British subjects (chiefly Australians and New Zealanders), Mertz's qualifications prompted him to make an exception, and hire the Swiss as a ski instructor. First, however, he was given responsibility for the expedition's 49 Greenland Huskies, aboard the expedition ship SY \"Aurora\", bound for Hobart.\n\nOn the \"Aurora\", Mertz met Belgrave Edward Sutton Ninnis, a lieutenant in the Royal Fusiliers. Like Mertz, Ninnis was responsible for the expedition's dogs; \"Aurora\"'s captain, John King Davis, regarded the pair as \"idlers\". \"I wish we had some one on board who could look after [the dogs],\" he wrote in his diary, \"it is a great shame that they should suffer from neglect.\" On 2 December 1911, after final preparations and loading were completed in Hobart, the \"Aurora\" sailed south; she stopped briefly at Macquarie Island, where a wireless relay base was established, and reached the site of the expedition's main base at Cape Denison in Adélie Land, on the Antarctic continent, in early January.\n\nOver the following winter, preparations were made for the summer sledging. Because the conditions—constant, strong winds and an excessive slope by the hut—prevented Mertz from conducting skiing lessons as regularly as intended, he focussed instead on helping Ninnis to care for the dogs. On days when the weather was good they drove the dogs around outside the hut, teaching them to run in teams; when the winds returned the pair fitted and sewed harnesses for each dog, and prepared their sledging food. By this time Mertz and Ninnis developed a close friendship, as the expedition's taxidermist Charles Laseron later wrote:\n\nIn August, the preparations extended to laying depots; an early party established a depot to the south of the main hut—a grotto in the ice known as Aladdin's Cave—but returned without the dogs. Mertz and two others set off to rescue the dogs, but in heavy winds covered less than a mile in two hours, and returned to the hut. \"If it depended only on me,\" Mertz wrote in his diary, after four days' more wind confined them to the hut, \"we would be in our sleeping bags outside in the snow, and we would at least try to find the dogs. Mawson is definitely too cautious, and I wonder if he would show enough gumption during the sledging expedition.\" The following day Mertz was part of a party of three that made it to Aladdin's Cave to rescue the dogs; when strong winds confined them to the depot for three days they spent the time expanding the cave.\n\nIn September, Mertz, Ninnis and Herbert Murphy formed a survey party, man-hauling to the south-east of Aladdin's cave. In strong winds, they travelled just in three days, before the temperature dropped to and the wind speed increased to , confining them to the tent. When a gap in the wind allowed, they hurried back to the hut.\n\nOn 27 October 1912, Mawson outlined the summer sledging program. Mertz and Ninnis were assigned to Mawson's own party, which would use the dogs to push quickly to the east of the expedition's base in Commonwealth Bay, towards Victoria Land. The party departed Cape Denison on 10 November, heading first to Aladdin's Cave, and from there south-east towards a massive glacier encountered by \"Aurora\" on the outward journey. Mertz skied ahead, scouting and providing a lead for the dogs to chase; Mawson and Ninnis manoeuvred the two dog teams behind. They reached the glacier on 19 November; negotiating fields of crevasses, it was crossed in five days. The party made quick progress once on the plateau again, but they soon encountered another glacier, far larger than the first. Despite strong winds and poor light, Mertz, Mawson and Ninnis reached the far side on 30 November.\n\nOn 14 December, the party were more than from the Cape Denison hut. As Mertz skied ahead, singing songs from his student days, Ninnis, the largest sledge and the strongest dog team were lost when they broke through the snow lid of a crevasse. Together with the death of their companion, Mawson and Mertz were now severely compromised; on the remaining sledge they had just ten days' worth of food, and no food for the dogs. They immediately turned back west, gradually using the six remaining dogs to supplement their food supply; they ate all parts of the animals, including their livers. They initially made good progress, but as they cleared the largest glacier Mertz began to feel ill; he had lost his waterproof overpants on Ninnis' sledge, and in the cold his wet clothes were unable to dry. On 30 December, a day Mawson recorded that the companion was \"off colour\", Mertz wrote that he was \"really tired [and] shall write no more.\" Mertz's condition deteriorated over the following days—Mawson recorded he was \"generally in a very bad condition. Skin coming off legs, etc\"—and his illness severely slowed their progress. On 8 January, the pair about from the hut, Mawson recorded:\n\nMawson buried Mertz in his sleeping bag under rough-hewn blocks of snow, along with the remaining photographic plates and an explanatory note. Mawson staggered back into the Cape Denison hut a month later, missing the \"Aurora\" by a matter of hours; she had waited for Mertz, Mawson and Ninnis for three weeks until—concerned by the encroaching winter ice—Davis had sailed her out of Commonwealth Bay and back to Australia.\n\nIn November 1913, a month before the \"Aurora\" returned for the final time, Mawson and the six men remaining at Cape Denison erected a memorial cross for Mertz and Ninnis on Azimuth Hill to the north-west of the main hut. The cross, constructed from pieces of a broken radio mast, was accompanied by a plaque cut from wood from Mertz's bunk. The cross still stands, although the crossbar has required reattaching several times, and the plaque was replaced with a replica in 1986. The first glacier the Far Eastern Party crossed on the outward journey—previously unnamed—was named by Mawson after Mertz, becoming the Mertz Glacier. At a speaking engagement upon his return to Australia, Mawson praised his dead comrades: \"The survivors might have an opportunity of doing something more, but these men had done their all.\" At another, Mawson said that \"Dr. Mertz was a Swiss by birth, but he was a man every Englishman would have liked to have called an Englishman ... He was a man of great feelings, generous—one of Nature's gentlemen.\" A telegram was sent on behalf of the Australian people to Emile Mertz, condoling him on his \"great loss, but congratulating you on your son's imperishable fame.\"\n\nThe cause of Mertz's death is not certain; at the time, it was believed Mertz may have died of colitis. A 1969 study by Sir John Cleland and R. V. Southcott of the University of Adelaide concluded that the symptoms Mawson described—hair, skin and weight loss, depression, dysentery and persistent skin infections—indicated the men had suffered hypervitaminosis A, an excessive intake of vitamin A. Vitamin A is found in unusually high quantities in the livers of Greenland Dogs, of which both Mertz and Mawson consumed large amounts; indeed, as Mertz's condition deteriorated, Mawson may have given him more of the liver to eat, believing it to be more easily digested. This theory is the most widely accepted, but there have been other theories. Phillip Law, former director of Australian National Antarctic Research Expeditions (ANARE), believed cold exposure could account for Mertz's symptoms. A 2005 article in \"The Medical Journal of Australia\" by Denise Carrington-Smith, noting certain sources indicating that Mertz was essentially a vegetarian, suggested that general malnutrition and the sudden change to a predominantly meat diet could have triggered Mertz's illness. Carrington-Smith adds a more hypothetical reason: \"the psychological stresses related to the death of a close friend [Ninnis] and the deaths of the dogs he had cared for, as well as the need to kill and eat his remaining dogs\". \n\nNotes\nFootnotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
