{"id": "1858926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858926", "title": "1946 Lake Success Protocol", "text": "1946 Lake Success Protocol\n\nThe Protocol Amending the Agreements, Conventions and Protocols on Narcotic Drugs concluded at The Hague on 23 January 1912, at Geneva on 11 February 1925 and 19 February 1925, and 13 July 1931, at Bangkok on 27 November 1931 and at Geneva on 26 June 1936 was a treaty, signed on 11 December 1946 at Lake Success, that shifted the drug control functions previously assigned to the League of Nations to the United Nations. As the Protocol's official title says, it modifies the provisions of the:\n\nUnder this Protocol, the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, appointed by the UN Economic and Social Council, took over drug policy making from the League of Nations' Advisory Committee on Traffic in Opium and Other Dangerous Drugs. In an important precedent, the Supervisory Body that was created to administer the estimate system (which required nations to keep within their predetermined estimates of necessary narcotics production, imports, exports, etc.) was appointed by:\nThe Supervisory Body's successor, the International Narcotics Control Board, also had 3 of its 13 members nominated by the World Health Organization, with the rest nominated by UN members, with nominations subject to approval by the UN Economic and Social Council. No doubt in both cases, lobbying by the pharmaceutical industries influenced the inclusion of a requirement to place some scientific and medical experts on the board. However, the influence of Harry J. Anslinger and his Canadian counterpart Charles Henry Ludovic Sharman, both narcotics control officials, could be seen in the decision to allow the Commission to select some members (thus allowing law enforcement officials to be appointed to the Supervisory Body).\n\nIn accordance with the provisions of the drug control treaties, the revisions instituted by the Protocol did not require ratification to enter into force. For each party, the treaty entered into force immediately upon their (a) signature without reservation as to approval, (b) signature subject to approval followed by acceptance or (c) acceptance. Since there were far fewer independent nations in the 1940s than there are today, the Protocol's initial 40 parties – including populous empires and unions such as the United Kingdom and Soviet Union – encompassed the vast majority of the world's population. As of 2013, the Protocol has 62 state parties; of the ratifying states, the Netherlands has denounced the treaty.\n\nThe Protocol was superseded by the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, except as it affected the 1936 Convention for the Suppression of the Illicit Traffic in Dangerous Drugs. However, the Protocol's influence can be plainly seen in the power structure established by the Single Convention, which remains in force.\n\n"}
{"id": "21118167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21118167", "title": "2008 Israel–Hamas ceasefire", "text": "2008 Israel–Hamas ceasefire\n\nThe 2008 Israel–Hamas ceasefire was an Egyptian-brokered six-month Tahdia (an Arabic term for a lull) \"for the Gaza area\", which went into effect between Hamas and Israel on 19 June 2008. According to the Egyptian-brokered agreement, Israel promised to halt air strikes and other attacks, while in return, there would not be rocket attacks on Israel from Gaza. Once the ceasefire held, Israel was to gradually begin to ease its blockade of Gaza.\n\nDuring the initial week of the ceasefire, Islamic Jihad militants fired rockets on Israel. Under pressure from Hamas, Islamic Jihad had agreed to abide by the temporary truce, which was meant to apply only to Gaza, but had balked at the idea of not responding to Israeli military actions in the West Bank. The New York Times reported that the Islamic Jihad action broke the Hamas-Israeli Gaza truce. During the next 5 months of the ceasefire, Gazan attacks decreased significantly for a total of 19 rocket and 18 mortar shell launchings, compared to 1199 rockets and 1072 mortar shells in 2008 up to 19 June, a reduction of 98%.\n\nThe agreement called on Israel to increase the level of goods entering Gaza by 30 percent over the pre-lull period within 72 hours and to open all border crossings and \"allow the transfer of all goods that were banned and restricted to go into Gaza\" within 13 days after the beginning of the ceasefire. The increase in supplies of food, water, medicine and fuel did improve, but the increase was only to an average of about 20 percent of normal levels. Two months later the volume of goods arriving was too low to significantly improved living conditions, preventing UNRWA from replenishing its stores. Israel told U.S. officials in 2008 it would keep Gaza's economy \"on the brink of collapse\".\n\nOn 4 November 2008, Israel raided Gaza, killing six Hamas militants. The Israeli military claimed the target of the raid was a tunnel that they said Hamas was planning to use to capture Israeli soldiers positioned on the border fence 250m away. Hamas officials claimed that the tunnel was being dug for defensive purposes. Hamas replied to the Israeli attack with a barrage of rocket fire. On December 20, Hamas announced it would not renew the ceasefire. Operation Cast Lead commenced on 27 December 2008.\n\n After its Palestinian legislative election, 2006 victory, Hamas assumed administrative control of Gaza, consolidating its this control after a military conflict with Fatah. Israel and Egypt then partially sealed their border crossings with Gaza, on the grounds that Fatah was no longer providing security. They imposed a blockade on the territory, prohibiting many exports and allowing only enough imported goods to avert a humanitarian or health crisis. After many acts of violence, foreign journalists left the Gaza strip due to the lack of security in the zone.\n\nAs a result of the June 2007 tightening of the Israeli embargo on Gaza Hamas and other Palestinian paramilitias more than doubled the monthly number of Qassam rockets and mortars fired from the Gaza strip into Southern Israel. Israel conducted airstrikes and raids against Hamas and other targets in Gaza during 2007 and 2008. Hamas considers Israel an illegitimate state and Israel views Hamas as a terrorist group that must be dismantled. There is no mutually agreed text or enforcement mechanism in the understanding brokered between the two parties, neither of which recognizes the other, that would facilitate a formal ceasefire or armistice.\n\nAfter visiting Israel and Palestine in April 2008, former President Jimmy Carter stated that \"Palestinian leaders from Gaza were noncommittal on all issues, these leaders claimed that rockets were the only way to respond to their imprisonment and to dramatize their humanitarian plight. The top Hamas leaders in Damascus, however, agreed to consider a cease-fire in Gaza only, provided Israel would not attack Gaza and would permit normal humanitarian supplies to be delivered to Palestinian citizens.\" Hamas was willing to consider a cease-fire in both Gaza and the Fatah controlled West Bank, but the Israelis were only interested in a Gaza agreement.\n\nAt the beginning of the cease-fire, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert stated that \"We have no illusions. The calm is fragile and likely to be short-lived.\" He also said that \"Hamas is the address in Gaza, and it carries responsibility for everything that happens in Gaza\". Hamas leadership had low expectations as well. Just minutes before the start, Israeli aircraft fired on a Gazan rocket launching squad, killing one militant. Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh described the proposed period in Arabic as a \"Tahdia\", meaning a temporary moment of calm and not a formal cease-fire.\n\nThe Israeli opposition in the Knesset blasted the agreement. Likud Chairman Benjamin Netanyahu said, \"This is not a relaxation, it's an Israeli agreement to the rearming of Hamas... What are we getting for this?\" In Palestine, Authority President Mahmoud Abbas praised it, and he used the lull to seek reconciliation with Hamas. \"Ha'aretz\" has alleged that even at the very beginning of the cease-fire Defense Minister Ehud Barak prepared a comprehensive intelligence-gathering program setting up battle plans against Hamas.\n\nThe United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) summarised the key components of the ceasefire as follows: \n\nA report by the British House of Commons Library, published on 22 January 2009, provides Hamas’ understanding of the terms of the ceasefire: \n\nThe agreement also provided for \"movement toward the release of Corporal Shalit\". On the day of the agreement the BBC referred to the Shalit issue as \"negotiations on the return of captured Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit were expected to resume within a few days\". Instead, Shalit's release would be dependent on Israel agreeing to a prisoner swap, and be discussed separately from the truce, as Hamas wanted. Shalit’s father and grandfather attacked the Israeli government for leaving the soldier out of the cease-fire agreement.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", neither side fully respected the terms of the cease-fire. Hamas undertook to stop other groups from firing rockets at Israel. It took some days, but it was largely successful, with Hamas imposing its will and even imprisoning some of those who were firing rockets. Nonetheless some rockets still continued to be fired from Gaza. On the other hand, the Israeli blockade of Gaza was loosened, but the goods shipments, while up some 25 to 30 percent and including a mix of more items, never began to approach the pre-blockade levels. Hamas hoped that the accord would lead Israel to suspend attacks on the West Bank and Gaza. Israeli forces continued to attack Hamas and other militants in the West Bank, prompting the rogue Palestinian militants in Gaza to fire rockets. The Israeli military also found several dozen improvised explosive devices and sniper fire cases on the Gaza border. Israel in turn hoped that the accord would lead to progress on negotiations for the release of Gilad Shalit; neither hope was met. \"USA Today\" stated on 1 July that it was not clear how Hamas would know definitively whether a rocket was fired. Several militant factions operate inside Gaza. But Israel had taken a zero tolerance policy towards the truce in which every rocket and/or mortar attack would be punished in some way. On 11 August 2008 Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak said that a military invasion of the Gaza Strip would not stop cross-border rocket attacks by Palestinian militants, but that the seven-week-old truce mediated by Egypt had halted the barrages for the first time in years. He said the numbers of short-range unguided rockets hitting Israel from Gaza had been reduced from hundreds to a handful. The same day a senior Hamas official said that the Islamic organization was not interested in renewing talks to free the abducted Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit until Israel completely lifted the siege on Gaza.\n\nPalestinian Center for Human Rights recorded several IDF violations in the early days of the lull.\n\nOn 19 June 2008, just a few hours after the beginning of the ceasefire Israeli forces opened fire against fishermen and farmers in Gaza.\n\nOn 23 June, Israeli forces opened fire against children and farmers in northern Gaza Strip, wounding one of the farmers, Jameel 'Abdul Rahman al-Ghoul, 68, in the neck. Subsequently, a mortar was fired at Israel from Gaza.\n\nOn 24 June 2008, Israel raided the city of Nablus on the West Bank, outside of the cease-fire area, killing a commander of Islamic Jihad and one other Palestinian. Before the raid, unknown militants had fired a mortar into Southern Israel. Later the same day, three Qassam rockets were fired from Gaza into Sderot, Israel, causing two minor injuries; Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility, stating the attack was in response to the Israeli raid. Israel then closed border crossings into Gaza; this was criticized by Hamas which said Israel was \"backtracking on the calm\". MSNBC has described the violence that day as the truce's \"first serious test\". Both sides continued to pursue calm afterward.\n\nOn 25 June, Israeli forces opened fire against farmers in southeastern Gaza Strip, injuring Salem Ahmed Abu Raida, 82, in the hand. Islamic Jihad threatened to renew rocket fire after the shooting. “We will respond to every Zionist violation at a suitable time,” a spokesman Abu Hamza said. Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak ordered the closure of all the crossings into the Gaza Strip. In response the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade fired a Qassam rocket at the western Negev the next day.\n\nOn 28 June IDF troops killed 7-year-old Mohamed Al Allami during a military operation in the village of Beit Omer, south of Hebron. Islamic Jihad fired a rocket or mortar shell into southern Israel, threatening to resume rocket attacks if Israel continued military operations in the West Bank.\n\nOn 29 June a Hamas official in charge of agriculture in the Gaza Strip Mohammad Ramadan Al-Agha said that the IDF was shooting at Gaza’s farmers whenever they went to their land near the borders.\n\nOn 1 July a Palestinian woman was shot and wounded in the leg by the Israeli Army near the Sufa border crossing in the southern Gaza Strip while she was tending her sheep.\n\nOn 10 July Israeli troops killed an unarmed Palestinian near the border in the southern Gaza Strip, an IDF spokesman said. The Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades claimed the victim had been one of its members. Palestinians fired two Qassam rockets into Israel’s western Negev region, hours after the killing. Hamas arrested three militants from the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades immediately after they launched the rockets at targets in Israel.\n\nOn 14 July the PA Ministry of Agriculture said that 75 per cent of agricultural lands in the Gaza Strip had been razed by the IDF.\n\nOn 23 July the IDF shot and wounded a Palestinian in the Gaza Strip.\n\nPrior to the incident on November 4, in which Israeli forces destroyed a cross-border tunnel and killed six of its operatives, Hamas had been scrupulously adhering to the ceasefire - not firing rockets itself and reigning in other Palestinian groups. Hamas' adherence to the ceasefire was admitted by official Israeli spokesperson, Mark Regev. In an interview with David Fuller on More4 News (a sister programme of the U.K.'s Channel 4 News) on 9 January 2009, two weeks into Israel’s assault on Gaza, Regev explained that \"“Success is freeing the civilian population of southern Israel from the fear of an incoming Hamas rockets.” When Fuller put it to Regev that “there were no Hamas rockets during the ceasefire before November the 4th, there were no Hamas rockets for 4 months”, Regev replied: “That’s correct”. Support for Regev's view is found in a document provided to journalists, published by Israel's Meir Amit Intelligence and Terrorism Information Centre: \"Hamas was careful to maintain the ceasefire\". Despite Israel’s refusal to comply with the truce agreement to end the siege, Hamas brought rocket and mortar fire from Gaza to a virtual halt during the summer and fall of 2008. Hamas “tried to enforce the terms of the arrangement” on other Palestinian groups, taking “a number of steps against networks which violated the arrangement,” including short-term detention and confiscating their weapons, but it could not completely end the rocket and mortar shell attacks by these rogue factions in Gaza. Hamas had sought support in Gazan public opinion for its policy of maintaining the ceasefire.\n\nA week after the cease-fire agreement was reached, Hamas called on other Palestinian factions to abide by the truce. A rocket attack on Israel by al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades was condemned by Hamas as \"unpatriotic.\" Hamas claimed it would imprison anyone, from its own ranks or other groups, caught firing rockets, but also explicitly stated it would not police the border with Israel. On 28 June, Saeb Erekat, the PLO's chief negotiator, called upon all groups to honor the lull, calling it the “supreme Palestinian interest” above all else. The three rocket attacks made from 19 to 28 June led Israel to slow down the re-opening of Gaza border areas. On 29 June, the Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center commented that Hamas preferred to exert outside pressure on the rocket attackers and refused to confront them directly.\n\nHamas believed that 19 June agreement required it to end rocket attacks upon Israel in exchange for an end of the blockade. According to \"The New York Times\":\nOn 5 July Egyptian authorities found weapons and explosives in the Sinai desert they believe were destined for the Gaza Strip. On 8 July the IDF said Gaza militants fired a mortar shell into the western Negev in another violation of the truce. On 11 July Hamas arrested another four members of the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades in the village of Beit Hanoun in the northern Gaza Strip. On 12 and 13 July Gaza militants fired single rockets into Israel \n\nRocket and mortar attacks continued at a rate of several rockets per month. Shortly after the start of the truce, the Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center commented that \"rogue terrorist organizations\" opposed to Hamas continued to carry out attacks. Nevertheless, rocket fire decreased 98% in the four and a half months between 18 June and 4 November when compared to the four and a half months preceding the ceasefire, since over 1,894 rockets were fired into Israel from 1 February to 18 June and just 37 were fired between 18 June and the beginning of November. However, the amount of rocket fire was only decreased by about 20% when comparing the lull in November 2008 to the time shortly before Hamas took power in Gaza.\n\nOn 20 November 2008, Human Rights Watch wrote an open letter to Ismail Haniya, Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority in Gaza, and Khaled Mishaal, leader of the Islamic Resistance Movement, stating that:\n\nThe Palestinians who negotiated the cease-fire believed that the commerce in Gaza was to be restored to the levels preceding Israel's withdrawal in 2005 and Hamas's electoral victory. Israeli policy tied the easing of the blockade on success in reducing rocket fire. Israel permitted a 20% increase in goods trucked into Gaza in the pre-lull period, up from 70 to 90 truckloads a day, and that included not only humanitarian supplies but also clothes, shoes, refrigerators, and construction materials. Fuel supplies increased from 55MW worth to 65MW worth. BBC News reported on 11 November that Gaza was then receiving only 28% of the amount of goods traded before the Hamas takeover.\n\nIsrael has stated that food imports into the Strip were restricted by its inability to operate at border checkpoints facing constant Palestinian attack, and not because of any Israeli-imposed limits. It has accused Hamas of exacerbating fuel shortages by leading labor union strikes by power plant workers. It has also accused Hamas of underfunding the Gaza health care system, and then blaming the situation on Israel despite its free trade of medical supplies. It maintains that some individuals claiming to require medical attention in Israel were in fact planning terrorist attacks, therefore forcing the government to impose travel restrictions. It also accused Hamas of continuing the smuggling of weapons into the Gaza strip via tunnels to Egypt, pointing out that the rocket attacks had not completely ceased.\n\nOver the one-month period from 4 November to 8 December, about 700 truckloads of goods went into Gaza, which is about the amount of material that would have gone through in a single day without a blockade. Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum said in mid-July that \"easing restrictions on Gaza crossings is going very slow and the population doesn't feel that there is basically a real truce and a normal life.\" Jimmy Carter has stated that he believes the cease-fire could have lasted had Israel been willing to lift the blockade and allow in an \"adequate\" amount of humanitarian supplies.\n\nA group of Gaza militants, including Hamas' armed wing Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, captured Israeli Staff Sergeant Gilad Shalit in June 2006 and had held him as a hostage ever since, connecting his release to the Israel release of Palestinian prisoners. Israel directly tied his release to the cease-fire. However, the issue was not mentioned in the initial cease-fire itself, which led Shalit's father and grandfather to attack the Israeli government. In the early stage of the lull, Israeli officials had stated that they found “a certain sense of progress” on Shalit's release. Hamas considered Shalit's status to be entirely separate from the cease-fire negotiations themselves. It conditioned a deal about his release to the end of the Israeli blockade of Gaza.\n\nThe lack of progress in the Egyptian-supervised talks about Shalit severely strained the ceasefire. An offer by Israel in June to release 450 prisoners was rejected by Hamas, who asked for 1,000 prisoners. The Israelis believed that the demands for Shalit's release would increase with time. They also feared a public outcry by people whose relatives died in terrorist attacks perpetrated by the prisoners. Hamas' decisions also alienated it from the government of Egypt, which had linked the opening of the Gaza/Egypt border crossing with Shalit's release. Hamas did not consider the Egyptians to be an honest broker during these talks and looked for another mediator.\n\nOn 4 November 2008, the IDF made an incursion at least 250 meters into the Gaza Strip searching for a tunnel, claiming it was intended for the capture of Israeli soldiers and that it intended to continue with the truce, calling the raid a \"pinpoint operation\". According to Dr. Robert Pastor, senior advisor to the Carter Center, who met with Khaled Meshal, chairman of the Hamas political bureau in Damascus, Hamas asserted that the tunnel was being dug for defensive purposes, not to capture IDF personnel. Pastor said further that one IDF official confirmed that fact to him. As six Hamas fighters were killed, Hamas stated that the attack was a \"massive breach of the truce\". After the Israeli military attack on Hamas in Gaza on November 4, Hamas resumed intensive rocket attacks on Israel. According to a 17 November article in \"The Telegraph\", \"since violence flared on 5 Nov, Israeli forces and militants, some of them from Hamas, have engaged in almost daily tit-for-tat exchanges.\"\n\nThe reliability of the IDF allegation that the tunnel was intended to kidnap Israeli soldiers on the other side of the border has been challenged by various sources. A member of the Carter Centre, involved in negotiations at the time with both Hamas and Israel, reported that Hamas had claimed that the tunnel was defensive against IDF shelling, with an anonymous IDF officer confirming that fact.\n\nLikud MK Yuval Steinitz acknowledged in an al-Jazeera interview on January 4, 2009 that Israel began actively preparing for Operation Cast Lead months beforehand, around June 2008.\n\nOn 13 December 2008, Israel announced that it was in favor of extending the cease-fire, provided Hamas adhered to its conditions. The conditions posed by a Hamas delegation in Cairo on 14 December, were that the parties return to the original Hamas-Israel ceasefire arrangement. Hamas would undertake to stop all rocket attacks against Israel if the Israelis would agree to open up the border crossings, not to reduce commercial traffic thereafter, and not to launch attacks in Gaza. At an Israeli Cabinet meeting on 21 December, Yuval Diskin, head of Israel's internal security agency, said he thought Hamas was \"interested in continuing the truce, but wants to improve its terms... It wants us to lift the siege [of Gaza], stop attacks, and extend the truce to include [the West Bank].\"\n\nOn 20 December, Hamas officially announced that they would not be extending the cease-fire, which had expired on 19 December, citing Israeli border closures as the primary reason, and resumed its shelling of the western Negev. Hamas continued to offer a re-establishment of the cease-fire, given the Israeli government would accept its terms. The terms were defined as the lifting of the blockade and a complete ban of military incursions into Gaza. At that time, Hamas also refused European mediation of the talks to release Gilad Shalit, citing Israel's unwillingness to cooperate on a cease-fire agreement.\n\nOn 23 December, Mahmoud al-Zahar, a senior Hamas leader, said in a newspaper interview that his group was willing to consider renewing the hudna if Israel refrained from operating in Gaza and lifted its blockade. The same day the IDF killed three Palestinian militants, stating that the militants were planting explosives on the Gaza border. Israel was also reluctant to open the border crossings, which had been closed since November. On 24 December the Negev was hit by more than 60 mortar shells and Katyusha and Qassam rockets, and the IDF was given a green light to operate. Hamas claimed to have fired a total of 87 rockets and mortar rounds that day at Israel, code-naming the firing \"Operation Oil Stain\".\n\nOn 25 December 2008, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert delivered 'Last Minute' Warning to Gaza in direct appeal to Gaza's people via the Arabic language satellite channel al-Arabiya, to pressure their leaders to stop the barrages. \"I am telling them now, it may be the last minute, I'm telling them stop it. We are stronger,\" he said.\n\nOn 26 December 2008, Israel reopened five crossings between Israel and Gaza for humanitarian supplies. Despite the movement of relief supplies, militants fired about a dozen rockets and mortar shells from Gaza at Israel on Friday. Fuel was allowed in for Gaza's main power plant and about 100 trucks loaded with grain, humanitarian aid and other goods were expected during the day. Rocket attacks continued—about a dozen rockets and mortar bombs were fired from Gaza into Israel, one accidentally striking a northern Gaza house and killing two Palestinian sisters, aged five and thirteen, while wounding a third. According to Israeli military officials, the subsequent 27 December Israeli offensive Operation Cast Lead took Hamas by surprise, thereby increasing their casualties.\n\nA poll conducted before the rocket attacks on 24 December indicated that 46% of Israelis did not support the invasion of the Gaza Strip, while 40% did. A poll conducted on 1 January, four days after the operation begun, demonstrated that a decisive majority of Israelis support continuing the army's air campaign against Hamas targets in the Gaza Strip without endangering the lives of Israel Defense Forces soldiers in a ground offensive. On 9 January public opinion poll in Israel indicated that 76% oppose truce without Gilad Shalit.\n\nAccording to data from B'Tselem, an Israeli human rights organization, at least nineteen Palestinians in the Strip died from Israeli fire during the ceasefire. Three of those were civilians, one of them a 15-year-old adolescent. The group's data also states that no Israeli civilian or Israeli security force personnel were killed by Palestinian attacks from the Strip in the same period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "274662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274662", "title": "Abington School District v. Schempp", "text": "Abington School District v. Schempp\n\nAbington School District v. Schempp, 374 U.S. 203 (1963), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court decided 8–1 in favor of the respondent, Edward Schempp, and declared school-sponsored Bible reading in public schools in the United States to be unconstitutional. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court during this case was Earl Warren.\n\nThe \"Abington\" case began when Edward Schempp, a Unitarian Universalist and a resident of Abington Township, Pennsylvania, filed suit against the Abington School District in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to prohibit the enforcement of a Pennsylvania state law that required his children, specifically Ellery Schempp, to hear and sometimes read portions of the Bible as part of their public school education. That law (24 Pa. Stat. 15-1516, as amended, Pub. Law 1928) required that \"[a]t least ten verses from the Holy Bible [be] read, without comment, at the opening of each public school on each school day.\" Schempp specifically contended that the statute violated his and his family's rights under the First and Fourteenth Amendments.\n\nPennsylvania law, like that of four other states, included a statute compelling school districts to perform Bible readings in the mornings before classes. Twenty-five states had laws allowing \"optional\" Bible reading, with the remainder having no laws supporting or rejecting Bible reading. In eleven of those states with laws supportive of Bible reading or state-sponsored prayer, the state courts had declared them unconstitutional.\n\nA related case was that brought by Madalyn Murray O'Hair, mother of plaintiff William J. Murray III (b. 1946), who filed suit against the local school system in \"Murray v. Curlett\" to prohibit compulsory prayer and Bible reading in public schools. In 1963 she founded the group American Atheists (originally known as the Society of Separationists). The Murray case was consolidated with Schempp's on appeal to the Supreme Court.\n\nDuring the first trial in federal district court, Edward Schempp and his children testified as to specific religious doctrines purveyed by a literal reading of the Bible \"which were contrary to the religious beliefs which they held and to their familial teaching\" (177 F. Supp. 398, 400). The children testified that all of the doctrines to which they referred were read to them at various times as part of the exercises. Edward Schempp testified at the second trial that he had considered having his children excused from attendance at the exercises but decided against it for several reasons, including his belief that the children's relationships with their teachers and classmates would be adversely affected.\n\nThe district court ruled in Schempp's favor, and struck down the Pennsylvania statute. The school district appealed the ruling, and while that appeal was pending, the Pennsylvania legislature amended the statute to allow children to be excused from the exercises upon the written request of their parents. This change did not satisfy Schempp, however, and he continued his action against the school district, charging that the amendment of the law did not change its nature as an unconstitutional establishment of religion. Because of the change in the law, the Supreme Court had responded to the school district's appeal by vacating the first ruling and remanding the case to the district court. The district court again found for Schempp. The school district appealed to the Supreme Court again, and, on appeal, the case was consolidated with a similar Maryland case launched by O'Hair.\n\nThe district court ruling in the second trial, in striking down the practices and the statute requiring them, made specific findings of fact that the children's attendance at Abington Senior High School was compulsory and that the practice of reading 10 verses from the Bible was also compelled by law. It also found that:\n\nThe reading of the verses, even without comment, possesses a devotional and religious character and constitutes in effect a religious observance. The devotional and religious nature of the morning exercises is made all the more apparent by the fact that the Bible reading is followed immediately by a recital in unison by the pupils of the Lord's Prayer. The fact that some pupils, or theoretically all pupils, might be excused from attendance at the exercises does not mitigate the obligatory nature of the ceremony for ... Section 1516 ... unequivocally requires the exercises to be held every school day in every school in the Commonwealth. The exercises are held in the school buildings and perforce are conducted by and under the authority of the local school authorities and during school sessions. Since the statute requires the reading of the 'Holy Bible,' a Christian document, the practice ... prefers the Christian religion. The record demonstrates that it was the intention of ... the Commonwealth ... to introduce a religious ceremony into the public schools of the Commonwealth. (201 F. Supp., at 819; quoted in )\n\nThe Court explicitly upheld \"Engel v. Vitale,\" in which the Court ruled that the sanctioning of a prayer by the school amounted to a violation of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, which states, \"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion.\" The \"Abington\" court held that in organizing a reading of the Bible, the school was conducting \"a religious exercise,\" and \"that cannot be done without violating the 'neutrality' required of the State by the balance of power between individual, church and state that has been struck by the First Amendment\" ().\n\nOver the previous two decades, the Supreme Court, by incorporating specific rights into the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, had steadily increased the extent to which rights contained in United States Bill of Rights were applied against the states. \"Abington\" was a continuation of this trend with regard to the Establishment of Religion Clause of the First Amendment, and specifically built upon Supreme Court precedents in , , and .\n\nThe Supreme Court granted certiorari in order to settle the persistent and vigorous protests resulting from its previous decision in \"Engel v. Vitale\" regarding religion in schools. Henry W. Sawyer argued the case for Schempp.\nThe Supreme Court upheld the District Court's decision and found the Pennsylvania prayer statute unconstitutional by virtue of the facts in the case, as well as the clear line of precedent established by the Supreme Court. In writing the opinion of the Court, Justice Tom C. Clark stated, \"This Court has decisively settled that the First Amendment's mandate [in the Establishment Clause] has been made wholly applicable to the States by the Fourteenth Amendment ... in a series of cases since \"Cantwell\".\n\nWhat was unexpected, however, were the ideas expressed in the second portion of Justice Clark's opinion written for the majority. The Court's recognition of religious ideals as valuable to the culture of the United States in that opinion are generally not cited much by either side of the church-state debate when discussing the case and the effect it had on the United States. His opening thoughts explicitly spelled out that view in past jurisprudence with cases similar to \"Abington v. Schempp.\"\n\nClark continued that the Court was of the feeling that no matter the religious nature of the citizenry, the government at all levels, as required by the Constitution, must remain neutral in matters of religion \"while protecting all, prefer[ring] none, and disparag[ing] none.\" The Court had clearly rejected \"the contention by many that the Establishment Clause forbade only governmental preference of one faith over another.\"\n\nCiting Justice Hugo Black in \"Torcaso v. Watkins\", Justice Clark added, \"We repeat and again reaffirm that neither a State nor the Federal Government can constitutionally force a person 'to profess a belief or disbelief in any religion.' Neither can constitutionally pass laws or impose requirements which aid all religions as against non-believers, and neither can aid those religions based on a belief in the existence of God as against those religions founded on different beliefs.\" Such prohibited behavior was self-evident in the Pennsylvania law requiring Bible reading (and allowing recitation of the Lord's Prayer) in its public schools. The Court recognized the value of such ideal neutrality from lessons of history when government and religion were either fully fused or cooperative with one another and religious liberty was nonexistent or seriously curtailed.\n\nJustice Brennan filed a lengthy and historically significant concurrence, taking seventy-three pages to elaborate his ideas about what the Framers intended in the formation of the First and Fourteenth Amendments, gauging the value of religion in American culture, reviewing legal precedents, and suggesting a course for future church-state cases. Brennan focused on the history of the Establishment Clause to counter numerous critics of the Court's Engel decision, who pointed out that prayer in public schools, as well as in many other areas of public life, was a longstanding practice going back to the framing of the Constitution and Bill of Rights. He professed to be aware of the \"ambiguities in the historical record\", and felt a modern-day interpretation of the First Amendment was warranted. In defense of that approach, Brennan stated:\n\nIn answer to critics of a broad interpretation of the prohibitions against government in the realm of religion, Brennan said, \"nothing in the text of the Establishment Clause supports the view that the prevention of the setting up of an official church was meant to be the full extent of the prohibitions against official involvements in religion\".\n\nIn the third section of his exhaustive concurrence, Justice Brennan charted the course that led to the incorporation of the First Amendment's religion clauses by way of answering the charge of Abington Township's counsel that Pennsylvania's Bible reading statute was a state issue, outside the purview of the federal court system, including that of the Supreme Court. He labeled the daily recitals of the Lord's Prayer and reading of the Bible as \"quite [clear] breaches of the command of the Establishment Clause\". He noted the long history of such practices, even before the \"founding of our Republic\". Additionally, he stated that most of those who demanded reading of the Bible and prayer in schools were hoping to serve \"broader goals than compelling formal worship of God or fostering church attendance\". He cited the 1858 words of the Wisconsin Superintendent of Public Instruction, who saw the Bible as aptly suited to \"teaching the noblest principles of virtue, morality, patriotism, and good order\".\n\nJustice Brennan took great pains to also show that many states, such as South Dakota, New Hampshire, Wisconsin, Ohio and Massachusetts, had already enacted and revoked laws similar to Pennsylvania's by the first half of the 20th century. In addition, many political leaders including attorneys general and presidents like Ulysses S. Grant and Theodore Roosevelt insisted that \"matters of religion be left to family altars, churches and private schools\" and \"[It] is not our business to have the Protestant Bible or the Catholic Vulgate or the Talmud read in [public] schools\" .\n\nBrennan's concurrence also recognized the plurality of religious thought in the nation as basis enough for restriction of church and state relations. He cited this lack of appreciation of that pluralism as the \"basic flaw\" of Pennsylvania's Bible reading statute and Abington Township's defense of it:\n\nThere are persons in every community—often deeply devout—to whom any version of the Judaeo-Christian Bible is offensive. There are others whose reverence for the Holy Scriptures demands private study or reflection and to whom public reading or recitation is sacrilegious... To such persons it is not the fact of using the Bible in the public schools, nor the content of any particular version, that is offensive, but the manner in which it is used.\n\nJustice Potter Stewart filed the only dissent in the case. In it, he was critical of both the lower court opinions and the decision the Supreme Court had reached regarding them. He wished to remand the case to lower courts for further proceedings.\n\nStewart had dissented in \"Engel v. Vitale\" and viewed the doctrine relied on in that case as implausible, given the long history of government religious practice in the United States, including the fact that the Supreme Court opens its own sessions with the declaration, \"God Save this Honorable Court\" and that Congress opens its sessions with prayers, among many other examples. Stewart believed that such practice fit with the nation's long history of permitting free exercise of religious practices, even in the public sphere.\n\nHe declared the cases consolidated with Schempp as \"so fundamentally deficient as to make impossible an informed or responsible determination of the constitutional issues presented\"—specifically, of whether the Establishment Clause was violated. As to the intent and scope of the religion clauses of the First Amendment:\n\nIt is, I think, a fallacious oversimplification to regard the [religion clauses] as establishing a single constitutional standard of \"separation of church and state\", which can be applied in every case to delineate the required boundaries between government and religion... As a matter of history, the First Amendment was adopted solely as a limitation upon the newly created National Government. The events leading to its adoption strongly suggest that the Establishment Clause was primarily an attempt to insure that Congress not only would be powerless to establish a national church, but would also be unable to interfere with existing state establishments. ... So matters stood until the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, or more accurately, until this Court's decision in \"Cantwell\"...\n\nHe stated his agreement with the doctrine of the Fourteenth Amendment's embrace and application of the Bill of Rights, but pointed out the irony of such an amendment \"designed to leave the States free to go their own way should now have become a restriction upon their autonomy\".\n\nOther critics of the Court's findings in \"Abington v. Schempp\" often quote the following excerpt from Justice Stewart's opinion:\n\nIf religious exercises are held to be an impermissible activity in schools, religion is placed in an artificial and state-created disadvantage... And a refusal to permit religious exercises thus is seen, not as the realization of state neutrality, but rather as the establishment of a religion of secularism, or at least, as governmental support of the beliefs of those who think that religious exercises should be conducted only in private.\n\nThe public was divided in reaction to the Court's decision; the decision has sparked persistent and ongoing criticism from proponents of prayer in school. In 1964, \"Life\" magazine declared Madalyn Murray O'Hair, the mother of the plaintiff in one of the associated cases, to be \"the most hated woman in America.\"\n\nNewspapers were no exception. The \"Washington Evening Star\", for example, criticized the decision, declaring that \"God and religion have all but been driven from the public schools. What remains? Will the baccalaureate service and Christmas carols be the next to go? Don't bet against it.\" In contrast, the \"New York Times\" was more accepting of the Court's ruling. The paper printed significant portions of the opinions with no significant comments, either supportive or critical. Opponents characterized the decision as the one which \"kicked God and prayer out of the schools\".\n\nThe views of various religious entities on the decision split between mainline Protestants and Jews, who in general strongly supported the decision, and evangelical Protestants and conservative Catholics, who strongly opposed the decision. Speaking from the conservative Protestant perspective, the Reverend Dr. Billy Graham said, \"[i]n my opinion ... the Supreme Court ... is wrong. ... Eighty percent of the American people want Bible reading and prayer in the schools. Why should a majority be so severely penalized ...?\" The mainline denominations, with the exception of the Roman Catholic Church, expressed less critical opinions of the verdict. Some considered it to support religious freedom because it limited governmental authority in the sphere of public schools.\n\nThe United States Congress reacted by drafting more than 150 resolutions to overturn the ruling by a constitutional amendment. \"Abington v. Schempp\" was used as precedent for similar cases such as \"Board of Education v. Allen\" and \"Lemon v. Kurtzman\" in the decades that followed. The three-part Lemon test had its basis in the jurisprudence of \"Abington v. Schempp\". Under the test, the constitutionality of a given church-state law is weighed by three criteria: whether a law has a non-secular purpose, advances or inhibits religion, or results in excessive government entanglement with religion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10668706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10668706", "title": "Attachment of earnings", "text": "Attachment of earnings\n\nAttachment of earnings is a legal process in civil litigation by which a defendant's wages or other earnings are taken to pay for a debt. This collections process is used in the common law system, especially Britain and the United States, but in other legal regimes as well.\n\n\"Ballentine's Law Dictionary\" notes that this process is not literal, whereby a \"person's property is figuratively brought into the court.\"\n\nThe earnings seized may be wages, certain benefits, or sales commissions. \n\nA sheriff, constable, or marshall enforces the court order. \n\nIn England, an attachment of earning order can stop money being paid to a defendant.\n\nUnder English law, a self-employed, unemployed, or member of the armed forces can not have an attachment against them.\nIn England, the District Council can attach earnings. This may be by a physical removal of the money or other personal property. However, more commonly, the officer merely contacts the bank, landlord, employer, trustee, bailee or other person holding the property, with a certified copy of the order, for them to hand over the debtor's property for attachment; this is especially true with intangible personal property and real property. \n\nAt present four U.S. states — North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Texas — do not allow wage garnishment at all except for debts related to taxes, child support, federally guaranteed student loans, and court-ordered fines or restitution for a crime the debtor committed. Several other states observe maximum thresholds that are lower than the 25 percent maximum provided by federal law. States may also prohibit garnishment altogether in certain circumstances. For example, in Florida the wages of a person who provides more than half the support for a child or other dependent are exempt from garnishment altogether (though this exemption is subject to waiver).\n\nIn New York, a limit of 10 percent of gross earnings may be taken for ordinary debts. However, 15 percent may be taken for student loans, and up to 40 percent for child support arrears, or even higher. \n\nIn many American jurisdictions, attachment of earnings is treated the same as, or is just called, garnishment. This is when either earnings, and/or property may be taken by the court.\n\n"}
{"id": "20023816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20023816", "title": "Change of position", "text": "Change of position\n\nChange of position is a defence to a claim in unjust enrichment which operates to reduce a defendant's liability to the extent to which his or her circumstances have changed as a consequence of an enrichment.\n\nThe historical core of the law of unjust enrichment consists of the quasi-contractual actions of money had and received, money paid to the defendant's use, quantum meruit and quantum valebat. These personal common law actions generated an obligation on the part of the defendant to give restitution of a gain acquired at the expense of the plaintiff. This liability was strict and independent of any wrongdoing on the part of the recipient. Change of position provides a defence to a defendant where it would be inequitable to compel him or her to make restitution. The defence was recognised as part of the English law of unjust enrichment by Lord Goff in \"Lipkin Gorman v Karpnale Ltd\" [1991] 2 AC 548.\n\n"}
{"id": "270160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270160", "title": "Co-belligerence", "text": "Co-belligerence\n\nCo-belligerence is the waging of a war in cooperation against a common enemy with or without a formal treaty of military alliance. Generally, the term is used for cases where no alliance exists. Co-belligerents are defined in the \"Encyclopaedic Dictionary of International Law\" as \"states engaged in a conflict with a common enemy, whether in alliance with each other or not\". Allies may not become co-belligerents if a \"casus foederis\" invoking the alliance has not arisen.\n\nThe term was used in 1943–45 during the latter stages of World War II to define the status of former German allies and associates (chiefly Italy, but also from 1944 Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary and Finland), after they joined the Allied war against Germany.\n\nCo-belligerence is also the term used by Finland for her military co-operation with Germany during the Second World War. Between 1941 and 1944, during what the Finns called the Continuation War, both countries had the Soviet Union as a common enemy. Finnish reentry into World War II was a direct consequence of Germany's attack on the Soviet Union, Operation Barbarossa.\n\nWhile the Allied states often referred to Finland as one of the Axis Powers, Finland was never a signatory to the German-Italian-Japanese Tripartite Pact of September 1940. The Allies, in turn, pointed to the fact that Finland, like Japan and Italy, as well as a number of countries including neutral Spain, belonged to Hitler's Anti-Comintern Pact.\n\nAdolf Hitler declared Germany to be \"im Bunde\" (in league) with the Finns, but Finland's government declared their intention to remain first a non-belligerent country, then co-belligerent after the Soviets started bombing Finnish cities all over the country, not the least due to a remaining neutralist public opinion. The truth was somewhere in-between:\n\n"}
{"id": "4629390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4629390", "title": "Contract city", "text": "Contract city\n\nContract city is a term used in some U.S. states for a city that contracts one or more municipal services to another unit of government, or to a private or commercial organization. Most of the contracts are for police or fire / rescue / paramedic services to the county in which the city lies.\n\nIn the traditional method, \"franchising\", a private company has a franchise, or legal right, to perform certain public services normally done by municipal government. Cities of all kinds have entered into contracts for non-core governmental services, such as facilities and grounds maintenance, auditing, legal counsel, road construction, garbage collection, water and waste water treatment, engineering services, animal control, and others. Such cities rely on the private sector to provide public service delivery, while the public sector maintains oversight. Public officials are specifically responsible for writing, signing, managing and enforcing contracts.\n\nAnother method of contracting is for the city to contract with its county government or with neighboring cities to provide municipal services such as police and public safety, libraries, or parks and recreation. \n\nIn contrast, independent cities are cities which provide basic governmental services themselves, without contracting (this usage is not to be confused with the more common usage of independent city as a city that is not part of any county). Most older cities are independent cities. In practice, many cities are hybrids of both. For instance, they may directly operate parks programs, but contract with the county for police and fire services. Most contract cities do their own land use planning, since cities were incorporated to exert local control over land use.\n\nIn 1954, Lakewood, California, became the first city to contract with its county for public services. The previously unincorporated area was facing a hostile annexation from adjacent Long Beach, California, and residents favored retaining local control while maintaining the existing services provided by Los Angeles County. The so-called Lakewood Plan has been the model for most new contract cities incorporated since then.\n\nIn recent years there has been a significant increase in the number of contract cities. Several that have received attention from the media include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4794517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4794517", "title": "Copyright law of Jordan", "text": "Copyright law of Jordan\n\nThe Jordanian Copyright Law and its Amendment No. (22) for the year 1992 is based on the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works and does not contain a definition of copyright; however in Article (3) it clearly states that the law offers legal protection to any kind of original work in literature, art and science regardless of the value or purpose of the work.\n\nIn Jordan copyright automatically attaches upon the creation of an original work of authorship, however registration / deposit with the National Library of the Jordanian Ministry of Culture puts a copyright holder in a better position if litigation arises over the copyright.\n\nA copyright holder desiring to register his/her copyright should:\n\n\nEach work is issued a depository number, and no official fees are required.\n\nCopyright protection begins when a work is actually created and fixed in a tangible form. For the majority of cases the duration of a copyright is for the life of the copyright owner plus fifty years following his/her death. There are two categories of exceptions to the standard duration of life plus fifty years, however.\n\n\nWhen the protection period expires the work enters into the public domain, making it legal for all to use.\n\nAn author or creator is the \"copyright holder\" for any work they publish that is attributed to them, whether or not copyright is clearly stated in the work or by any other means. If an employee creates, during employment, a work related to the activities or business of the employer, or by using the material placed under their disposal to arrive at the work, then the copyright shall be that of the employer unless agreed otherwise in writing.\n\nWorks that have entered into the public domain have no copyright protection. Also some works have what is referred to as a \"copylife license\", meaning that the author has granted everyone permission to freely use and improve upon the work.\n\nAlso if the exploitation of the work is for educational purposes or for personal use, then in such cases the use of the work will be legal and therefore not qualified as an infringement.\n\nLaws, regulations and court judgments, news items and reports do not carry a copyright. The Minister of Culture holds the copyright for works that fall into the category of national heritage and is charged with preventing misuse of such works while at the same time allowing public access to those works.\n\nThe rights that attach to copyright can be classified into economic rights and moral rights. Moral rights can not be sold or surrendered and require that the work be attributed to its author. In contrast, economic rights may be assigned by the author as they wish provided the assignment is in writing and unequivocally states the right at issue, its scope, purpose, place and term. (see Article 13 of the Jordanian Copyright Law)\n\nConversely, the law nullified any action taken by the author/copyright holder in their collective future thought product.(see Article 14 of the Jordanian Copyright Law)\n\nA copyright holder's exclusive rights grant the holder the freedom to exercise the rights associated with copyright, and require others to obtain the consent of the copyright holder before exercising those rights.\n\nSeveral exclusive rights attach to the copyright holder, including\n\n\nAn infringement on a copyright typically occurs when one or more of the copyright holder’s rights are utilized by others without the authorization of the copyright holder.\n\nThe Jordanian Minister of Culture has the right to assign a nonexclusive, non-assignable license to Jordanian nationals for either of two purposes:\n\n\nCompulsory licensing is only granted for uses tied to education, and in all cases the author of the original work remains entitled to just compensation.\n\nAuthors/copyright holders whose copyrights have been infringed have the right to receive just compensation. When determining such compensation the courts take a number of elements into account such as the author’s cultural standing, the value of the work as such, the value of the work in the market place and the extent to which the infringing party has profited from the exploitation of the work.\n\nIn addition the author (or the heirs or legal successors) may request that the courts take measures to:\n\n\nIn instances of counterfeiting or the utilization of an author’s exclusive right without authorization, the infringing party may be subject to criminal penalties in the form of imprisonment for a period not less than three months and not more than three years and a fine not less than one thousand Jordanian Dinars and not more than three thousand Jordanian Dinars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2001341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001341", "title": "Dead Man's Statute", "text": "Dead Man's Statute\n\nA dead man's statute, also known as a dead man act or dead man's rule, is a statute designed to prevent perjury in a civil case by prohibiting a witness who is an interested party from testifying about communications or transactions with a deceased person (a \"decedent\") against the decedent unless there is a waiver.\n\nThis prohibition applies only against a witness who has an interest in the outcome of the case and applies only where that witness is testifying for his own interests and against the interests of the decedent. Furthermore, the restriction only exists in civil cases, never in criminal cases.\n\nThe restriction can be waived. A waiver can occur in a number of ways: \n\nWith respect to U.S. federal courts, Rule 601 of the Federal Rules of Evidence defers to state law the determination of whether a witness is competent to testify. \n\nAbout half of the U.S. States have enacted a dead man statute, more commonly referred to as the \"dead man's rule.\" Some states have enacted compromise variations to the rule. For example, in Virginia, an interested witness may testify only as to the statements of the deceased if this testimony is corroborated by a disinterested witness. In other states, such as Illinois, the rule has been expanded to prevent an interested party from testifying about communications with a minor or a legally incompetent person.\n\nThe Texas dead man's rule, found at Texas Rules of Evidence, 601)b)reads: (b) \"Dead Man Rule\" in Civil Actions. In civil actions by or against executors, administrators, or guardians, in which judgment may be rendered for or against them as such, neither party shall be allowed to testify against the others as to any oral statement by the testator, intestate or ward, unless that testimony to the oral statement is corroborated or unless the witness is called at the trial to testify thereto by the opposite party; and, the provisions of this article shall extend to and include all actions by or against the heirs or legal representatives of a decedent based in whole or in part on such oral statement. Except for the foregoing, a witness is not precluded from giving evidence of or concerning any transaction with, any conversations with, any admissions of, or statement by, a deceased or insane party or person merely because the witness is a party to the action or a person interested in the event thereof. The trial court shall, in a proper case, where this rule prohibits an interested party or witness from testifying, instruct the jury that such person is not permitted by the law to give evidence relating to any oral statement by the deceased or ward unless the oral statement is corroborated or unless the party or witness is called at the trial by the opposite party.\n"}
{"id": "30121916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30121916", "title": "Decree of Dionysopolis", "text": "Decree of Dionysopolis\n\nThe Decree of Dionysopolis was written around 48 BC by the citizens of Dionysopolis (today's Balchik, on the Black Sea coast of Bulgaria) to Akornion, who traveled far away in a diplomatic mission to meet somebody's farther in \"Argedauon\". The decree, a fragmentary marble inscription, is located in the National Historical Museum in Sofia.\n\nThe decree mentions a Dacian town named Argedauon (), potentially Argidava or Argedava.\n\nThe stone is damaged and name was read differently by various editors and scholars:\n\nThe inscription also refers to the Dacian king Burebista, and one interpretation is that Akornion was his chief adviser (, literally \"first friend\") in Dionysopolis. Other sources indicate that Akornion was sent as an ambassador of Burebista to Pompey, to discuss an alliance against Julius Caesar.\n\nThis leads to the assumption that the mentioned \"Argedava\" was Burebista's capital of the Dacian kingdom. This source unfortunately doesn't mention the location of Argedava and historians opinions are split in two groups.\n\nOne school of thought, led by historians Constantin Daicoviciu and Hadrian Daicoviciu, assume the inscription talks about Argidava and place the potential capital of Burebista at Vărădia, Caraş-Severin County, Romania. The forms \"Argidava\" and \"Arcidava\" found in other ancient sources like Ptolemy's Geographia (c. 150 AD) and Tabula Peutingeriana (2nd century AD), clearly place a Dacian town with those names at this geographical location. The site is also close to Sarmizegetusa, a later Dacian capital.\n\nOthers, led by historian Vasile Pârvan and professor Radu Vulpe place \"Argedava\" at Popeşti, a district in the town of Mihăilești, Giurgiu County, Romania. Arguments include the name connection with the Argeş River, geographical position on a potential road to Dionysopolis which Akornion followed, and most importantly the size of the archaeological discovery at Popeşti that hints to a royal palace. However no other sources seem to name the dava discovered at Popeşti, so no exact assumptions can be made about its Dacian name.\n\nIt is also quite possible for the two different davae to be just homonyms.\n\nThe marble inscription is damaged in many areas, including right before the word \"Argedauon\", and it is possible the original word could have been \"Sargedauon\" () or \"Zargedauon\". This form could potentially be linked to \"Zargidaua\" mentioned by Ptolemy at a different geographical location. Or again, these two could be simple homonyms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23546762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23546762", "title": "Devlin v. Smith", "text": "Devlin v. Smith\n\nDevlin v. Smith, 89 N.Y. 470 (1882) was a seminal case decided by the New York Court of Appeals in the area of product liability law.\n\nThe Court held that a duty to third parties \"exists when a defect is such as to render the article in itself imminently dangerous, and serious injury to any person using it is a natural and probable consequence of its use.\" The Court further held that scaffolding to be used in the painting of a courthouse was an inherently dangerous article.\n\nSmith, a painter, employed Stevenson, a contractor, to build a 90-foot-tall scaffold for the express purpose of enabling the painter's workmen to stand upon it. A workman employed by Smith was killed by a fall, caused by the negligence of Stevenson in the construction of the scaffold upon which he was working. As Cardozo noted in McPherson, the contractor knew that workmen would use the scaffold and that, if improperly constructed, the scaffold was a dangerous trap.\n\nThe administratrix sued both Smith and Stevenson for negligence. The trial court dismissed her complaint. The Supreme Court in the Second Judicial Department (New York) affirmed. The administratrix appealed.\n\nOn appeal, the court affirmed as to the employer and reversed as to the scaffold-builder. The court found that there was sufficient evidence to require the submission to the jury of the question of whether the failure of the scaffold was attributable to negligence in its construction. The question of contributory negligence on the part of the deceased was also one for the jury. There was no evidence of negligence on the part of the employer in selecting the scaffold-builder, nor was there any evidence that the employer knew or had reason to know of any defect in the scaffold. The scaffold-builder was not the agent or servant of the employer but an independent contractor for whose acts or omissions the employer was not liable.\n\nSmith's employee was injured when the scaffold collapsed; however, the court held that Smith was not liable under a restricted rule of employer's liability. But as the party responsible for the negligent construction of the scaffold, Stevenson was held liable to the injured workman because he constructed a scaffold that would be imminently dangerous to the user if negligently constructed. Thus, the common-law rule was extended to provide liability for the negligent manufacture of a product that becomes dangerous because it was defectively produced. The court limited liability with a narrow rule of foreseeability. Accordingly, liability to third parties could arise if a defect rendered a product imminently dangerous and serious personal injury was a natural and probable consequence of its use. Id. at 477.\n\nThe court noted that ordinarily liability of a manufacturer for defects of a product would be limited by privity. Here the court held, however, that the defendant was liable. The court reasoned:\nId.\n\nContrast \"Heaven v. Pender\", 11 Q.B.D. 503., an English case of the next year, in which the court also permitted recovery to a worker injured as the result of defective scaffolding used in the painting of a ship but based its decision not on the inherently dangerous product rule but on the grounds that the dock owner had invited the worker onto the property.\n\nJudge Cardozo cited this case in \"MacPherson v. Buick Motor Co.\" There, the defendant argued that imminently dangerous products included only poisons, explosives, and firearms; therefore, Buick Motor Company was not liable for its automobile. Disagreeing, Cardozo's majority opinion first traced the judicial development of the imminent danger rule articulated in \"Thomas v. Winchester\", in which the court held poison to be imminently dangerous. In Thomas, the New York Court of Appeals held that if a defendant's product placed human life in imminent danger, the defendant would be liable regardless of whether the defendant directly sold the product to the plaintiff. Next, Cardozo's opinion examined the case of \"Devlin v. Smith\", where the court held a scaffold builder liable to a painter's employee when faulty scaffolding injured the employee. Finally, Cardozo discussed \"Statler v. George A. Ray Manufacturing Co.\", in which the court expanded its concept of \"imminently dangerous\" to include a coffee urn that exploded after the defendant had installed it in a restaurant.\n\nRelying on these precedents, Cardozo wrote in \"MacPherson\": \"It may be that Devlin v. Smith and Statler v. Ray Mfg. Co. have extended the rule of Thomas v. Winchester. If so, this court is committed to the extension.\" Thus, Cardozo concluded, it would be consistent with the \"Trend of judicial thought\" to classify an automobile as imminently dangerous.\n\n"}
{"id": "9596759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9596759", "title": "Engraving Copyright Act 1734", "text": "Engraving Copyright Act 1734\n\nThe Engraving Copyright Act 1734 or Engravers' Copyright Act (8 Geo.2 c.13) was an Act of the Parliament of Great Britain first read on 4 March 1734/35 and eventually passed on 25 June 1735 to give protections to producers of engravings. It is also called Hogarth's Act after William Hogarth, who prompted the law together with some fellow engravers. Historian Mark Rose notes, \"The Act protected only those engravings that involved original designs and thus, implicitly, made a distinction between artists and mere craftsmen. Soon, however, Parliament was persuaded to extend protection to all engravings.\"\n\nThis Act was one of the Copyright Acts 1734 to 1888.\n\nThis Act was repealed by sections 36 and 37(2) of, and schedule 2 to, the Copyright Act 1911 (c.46).\n\n"}
{"id": "34821318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34821318", "title": "European Market Infrastructure Regulation", "text": "European Market Infrastructure Regulation\n\nThe European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) is a body of European legislation for the regulation of over-the-counter derivatives. It was originally adopted by the EU legislature on July 4, 2012 and came into force on August 16, 2012. Its full technical standards were adopted by the European Commission on December 19, 2012 and came into effect on March 15, 2013.\n\nThe regulations include requirements for reporting of derivative contracts and implementation of risk management standards. It established common rules for central counterparties and trade repositories.\n\nThe objective of the legislation is to reduce systemic counterparty and operational risk, and help prevent future financial system collapses. \n\nThe European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) is a body of legislation for over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories. EMIR was introduced by the European Union (EU) as implementation of the G20 commitment to reduce systemic, counterparty and operational risk, and increase transparency in the OTC derivatives market. It was also designed as a preventative measure to avoid fallout during possible future financial crises similar to the collapse that followed the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy in 2008.\n\nIt establishes common rules for central counterparties, which interpose themselves between involved parties in a contract to serve as the focal point of each trade, and trade repositories, which collect and maintain all records of trades. EMIR requires the reporting of all derivatives, whether OTC or exchange traded, to a trade repository. EMIR covers entities that qualify for derivative contracts in regards to interest rate, equity, foreign exchange, or credit and commodity derivatives. It also outlines three sets of obligations, including the clearing, reporting and risk mitigation of applicable products.\n\nEMIR's set of obligations were designed to take effect on a phased basis over a period of several years.\n\nEntities that qualify for EMIR must report every derivative contract they enter into to a trade repository. They must also implement new risk management standards according to EMIR, including operational processes and margining related to their bilateral OTC derivatives. EMIR also covers trades that are not cleared by a central counterparty, and entities that qualify must submit all OTC derivatives subject to a mandatory clearing obligation for review. Counterparties must file reports wherever they enter into derivatives transactions, in the European Economic Area or elsewhere.\n\nThe European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) applies mandatory clearing obligations for specific OTC derivative contracts if a contract has been assigned a central counterparty under EMIR. The obligations require that over-the-counter derivatives trades are cleared through central counterparties. EMIR granted a temporary exemption from these guidelines to pension funds until August 2017.\n\nAll parties involved in trades must submit timely notifications of approaching, exceeding, and no longer exceeding the clearing threshold as defined by EMIR. This clearing regulation applies to financial counterparties such as banks, insurers, and managers of assets, as well as non-financial counterparties.\n\nEMIR requires that all entities entering into derivative contracts must submit reports to their corresponding trade repositories, outlining each over-the-counter trade. These mandatory reports must also include a Unique Transaction Identifier (UTI), legal entity identifier (LEI), information on the trading capacity of the counterparty, and the marked-to-market valuation of the position. The counterparty data in a report includes 26 fields for data and the common data includes 59 fields of data. These fields include an LEI, or a unique 20 digit alphanumeric code that may be used for eight of the 26 counterparty data fields, and the unique trade identifier, which are generated based on the report's LEI.\n\nBlock trades, which are large-scale transactions of shares, and any subsequent allocations must be reported to the fund manager, but block trades concluded by a TR are not subject to the obligation. If the block trade is allocated to the manager’s individual funds on the trade date, only the allocations need to be reported. In the event that the block trade is not allocated on the trade date, the block itself must be reported with the fund manager as counterparty.\n\nOne of EMIR's central purposes is to manage and avoid systemic risk. EMIR, and other legislation like it, aim to reduce systemic risk in part by increasing regulations on clearing and trading, which decreases returns and industry efforts. Under EMIR, the risk mitigation regime applies to contracts involving both EU countries and over the counter derivative contracts involving third country entities. The risk mitigation standards outlined in EMIR's Article 11 impose risk management regulation on bilaterally cleared derivatives, as these derivatives are not appropriate for standard central counterparty clearing.\n\nEMIR also advises against front-loading over the counter derivatives, or applying any associated fees to sellers alone, as this practice typically increases systemic risk. Other risk mitigation techniques as defined by EMIR include timely submission of reports and confirmations of adherence to regulation by all counterparties, and open reconciliation and compression of portfolios between involved parties. Other techniques include a new dispute resolution process, daily market reports and exchanges and the public exchange of collateral between parties.\n\nEMIR Regulation No 648/2012, as EMIR is referred to in European legal documentation, was implemented in 2012 through the standard co-decision procedure of the Council of the European Union, and the European Parliament, which set out a detailed framework for the legislation.\n\nThe European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) began developing technical standards on regulation of OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories to implement EMIR in February 2012. ESMA released a discussion paper on the topic, and in March 2012, the Authority held a public discussion in Paris to receive input on the questions put forth in the discussion paper.\n\nOn June 25, 2012, ESMA released a consultation paper publicizing its proposed technical standards. In July, ESMA hosted another open hearing in Paris. The authority released a final draft technical standards to the European Commission on September 27, 2012.\n\nEMIR entered into force on August 16, 2012, but most of its provisions only began to apply after a regulation's technical standards take place. These technical standards were adopted by the European Commission on December 19, 2012.\n\nAfter more discussion and public reports, EMIR was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on July 27, 2012, and the technical standards of EMIR came into effect on March 15, 2013.\n\nMany involved parties expressed difficulty reporting during the first six months of the regulations being in effect, and many experienced delays in reporting.\n\nIn July 2013, the European Commission adopted a Delegated EMIR Regulation to include the central banks and debt management offices in Japan and the United States to be exempt from EMIR. On July 12, 2013, ESMA published a discussion paper specifically describing the clearing obligation as defined by EMIR. The discussion was closed on September 16, 2013.\n\nIn August 2013, UK Parliament reviewed a second EMIR statutory instrument, which outlines additional supervisory and enforcement powers allotted to central counterparties during trading and clearing.\n\nIn September 2013, new obligations embedded into EMIR took effect, requiring EU banks and their counterparties to discuss and agree on processes and procedures for portfolio reconciliation and dispute resolution of derivatives executed in the OTC market. In October 2013, in response to the reported difficulties, ESMA announced that trade repositories should send back incomplete reports to counterparties, asking for their rectification, instead of trying to reconcile them. In November 2013, ESMA published the final draft on EMIR's technical standards in regards to non-EU counterparties. In January 2014, mandatory transaction reporting for OTC derivatives began under EMIR.\n\nOn October 1, 2014, ESMA began a consultation on EMIR's clearing obligation. The consultation closed on November 6, 2014. ESMA published the eleventh iteration of its Q&A report on EMIR on October 24, 2014. In the report, ESMA announced that any third country firm not originally subject to EMIR trade reporting obligations that subsequently becomes a financial counterparty subject to EMIR must comply with the EMIR reporting obligation in respect of all outstanding derivatives contracts.\n\nESMA conducted another consultation on the technical standards of reporting under EMIR between November 10, 2014 and February 3, 2015.\n\nMandatory reporting for exchange-traded derivatives began in January 2015, and in February of the same year, a European Commission report recommended an extension to the exemption until August 2017. As of March 2015, EMIR's regulations are under analysis in regards to pension funds, with the possibility of extending the extension to 2018. As of May 5, 2015, ESMA has been discussing a fourth consultation, this time revisiting the clearing obligation under EMIR. The 2013 report on clearing indicated a need for further analysis of the classes of OTC interest rate derivatives denominated in other currencies than the ones included in the first report, and the 2015 consultation is expected to present new analysis and invite discussion on these other currencies. The consultation is expected to conclude on July 15, 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6914946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6914946", "title": "Fair Use: The Story of the Letter U and the Numeral 2", "text": "Fair Use: The Story of the Letter U and the Numeral 2\n\nFair Use: The Story of the Letter U and the Numeral 2 is a 270-page book and ten track CD released in 1995 by Negativland detailing their lawsuits with U2's record label Island Records for their EP U2, including many legal documents and correspondences. \n\nThis book includes the text from the original magazine \"The Letter U and the Numeral 2\" which caused Negativland's record label SST Records to sue Negativland for publishing financial information on SST and the story of how they were being treated by SST.\n\n\nSources appearing on \"Dead Dog Records\":\n\nWise Guy, Casey Kasem, A Real Dog, The Shangri-La's, Usha Uthup, Wild Bill Hickock, Jingles P. Jones, Elizabeth Claire Prophet, David Ross, Big Daddy, The Edge, Paul McGuinness, The Chipmunks, Slim Whitman, Holger Hiller, Lightnin' Hopkins, Chumbawamba, Muddy Waters, The Rolling Stones, James Gabbert, Ray Reinhardt, Scott Beach, Led Zeppelin, Jim Bohannon, Johann Strauss, Little Roger and the Goosebumps, Tom Waits, Marilyn Quayle, David Byrne, The Code, The Little Mermaid, Dean Martin, Danny O'Day and Farfel, Black Flag, The Weatherman, Byram Abbott, James Harrison, Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch, Jeff Koons, The History of Radio, Nina Totenberg, 2 Live Crew, Roy Orbison, Alan M. Turk, Perez Prado, Brian Robertson, The Jerky Boys, Dan Lynch, Ewan Hughes, Merle Travis, U2, Art Rogers, The Pretenders, Stupidland, TM Productions, Rush Limbaugh, MTV Music Video Awards, B.P. Fallon, Zoo Radio Transmit, Mike Oldfield, Zoo T.V.(TV), Crime Photographer, Radioactive Goldfish, Art Rogers, Bob Basanich, Tibetan Monks, Bono, Taco Bell, Dana Carvey, Spy Plane Sound Effects Record, Larry King, the Evolution Control Committee, Mark Hamill, Batman, George David Weis, Alan Durshewitz, Charles Ferris, Penguin Cafe Orchestra, Sammy Davis Jr., Jerry Spence, Xerox Technology, Brian Eno, Bing Crosby, Wendy Carlos, The Andrews Sisters, Dick Haymes, Ethel Merman and many original sounds made and played by Negativland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22850064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22850064", "title": "German Law Journal", "text": "German Law Journal\n\nThe German Law Journal is a peer-reviewed, online-only open access law journal reporting on the developments in German, European and international jurisprudence. It is published by Washington & Lee University School of Law.\n\nPublication of the journal started in 2000. The journal was co-founded by its editor-in-chief, Russell A. Miller and Peer C. Zumbansen. The journal is published bi-monthly.\n\nOn the occasion of its 10th anniversary, the journal was honoured by the German Minister of Justice, Brigitte Zypries, for being an \"ambassador of German law\".\n\nIn addition to its regular monthly publications, from time to time the journal publishes special issues devoted to a particular developing topic in German, European, or international jurisprudence. For example, in the past, the journal published special issues on \"The Transnationalization of Legal Education\", \"The Transnationalization of Legal Cultures\", and \"Legal Positivism\", among others.\n"}
{"id": "12353105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12353105", "title": "Haleigh Poutre", "text": "Haleigh Poutre\n\nHaleigh Poutre (born February 24, 1994) is an American girl who became the subject of a legal controversy regarding the removal of life support for patients in persistent vegetative states. In 2006, eleven-year-old Poutre awoke from a coma shortly before she was scheduled to be removed from life support. Poutre had a severe brain injury thought to be caused by abuse by her adoptive mother. The case brought about many changes in the Massachusetts Department of Social Services, both in the way they handle reports of child abuse as well as their policies on end-of-life care for children in their custody.\n\nAt the age of four, Haleigh Poutre went to live with her maternal aunt, Holli Strickland, and Strickland's husband Jason, following allegations of sexual abuse at the hands of her mother's boyfriend. In 2001, Holli Strickland alone legally adopted Haleigh. When asked in court why he never legally adopted Haleigh, Jason Strickland replied \"Honestly, I didn't feel like I needed a piece of paper to say I was her father.\"\n\nOn September 11, 2005, Haleigh was taken to the emergency room at Noble Hospital in Westfield, Massachusetts, by Holli and Jason Strickland. They reported to medical staff that she had become unresponsive after suffering from \"flu-like symptoms\". Physicians determined that her brain stem was partly sheared, leaving her in a vegetative state. Physicians also noted a number of other injuries including broken teeth, numerous contusions and lacerations on Haleigh's body, and several burns in various stages of healing.\n\nOn September 20, 2005, the Stricklands were arrested and charged with assault and battery. Holli Strickland was shot to death two days later while out on bond. Police believe her death on September 22, 2005, to be a murder-suicide at the hands of her grandmother, Constance Young.\n\nFollowing criminal charges, the department of social services took custody of eleven-year-old Poutre. Eight days after she was admitted to the hospital, Harry Spence, the commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Social Services, sought to remove her from life support. Physicians involved in the case asserted that Poutre was in a vegetative state, and \"virtually brain dead.\" On Oct. 5, 2005, a judge approved the request. Jason Strickland, Poutre's stepfather, appealed the decision. Although Jason Strickland had never legally adopted Poutre, he asserted his right to make the decision as the \"de facto\" parent.\n\nComplicating the issue was the criminal case against Jason Strickland. If Poutre died, the state could bring murder charges against Strickland. But if she lived, even in a vegetative state, the charges brought against Strickland were significantly less severe. Many perceived the actions of Strickland to be an attempt at evading homicide charges.\n\nOn January 17, 2006, the Massachusetts Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Department of Social Services that life support could be removed. On January 18, 2006, as physicians were preparing to remove life support, Poutre regained consciousness. In the presence of Harry Spence, social workers asked Poutre to identify a series of items in front of her and she successfully completed the task. The order to remove life support was cancelled. \n\nA number of Right to Life groups involved themselves with Poutre's case. They noted parallels between this case and the high profile Terri Schiavo case which had ended in her death earlier that year. Schiavo's family, who runs the Terri Schindler Schiavo Foundation Center for Health Care Ethics Inc., contacted Mitt Romney regarding the Poutre case. Schiavo's father, Bob Schindler Sr., commented that there have been many similar cases and his foundation's goal is \"essentially to guard against this rush to judgment.\"\n\nThe Department of Social Services faced harsh criticism for their role in the case. On June 14, 2006, a legislative oversight committee determined that Department of Social Services was at fault for failing to protect Poutre. Department of Social Services officials have acknowledged that they missed signs of abuse before she was brought to the hospital in September. The Department of Social Services received at least twelve reports of abuse or neglect of Poutre between 2001 and 2005. The department had been working with the Strickland family since 1998. The panel recommended a number of changes, including the creation of an audit bureau to review cases, an increase of educational requirements for social workers, and a revamping of abuse reporting systems.\n\nIn March 2006, Governor Mitt Romney appointed a panel of specialists to evaluate the case. \"Haleigh's case highlights a frightening confluence of a health care system ignorant of abuse and a child protective system ignorant of medicine,\" they said. The panel also said current Department of Social Services procedures are \"substantially insufficient\" in their ability to make decisions regarding the withdrawal of life support from children in their custody. Recommendations included a number of changes, including increased access to medical, psychiatric, and child abuse expertise, and the creation of a new system for making end-of-life decisions.\n\nOn July 8, 2008, Governor Deval L. Patrick passed a new law to overhaul the child welfare system in Massachusetts. Changes include a requirement that the case undergo a special review by a state board if the Department of Social Services receives three or more reports of suspected child abuse. The results of that review will then be evaluated by prosecutors and police in the area. A new child-advocate position was also created. This advocate reports directly to the governor regarding severe child abuse or neglect in the state. The new law also involves increased penalties for failing to report child abuse. A new registry for keeping track of foster parents was also implemented. These changes were made largely in response to the Poutre case.\n\nIn 2008, Jason Strickland was tried for the assault. Strickland admitted noticing Poutre's injuries, but claimed he believed Holli's story that the injuries were self inflicted. The story was also believed by the Department of Social Services and was the reason she was not removed from the home despite numerous reports to the agency.\n\nDuring deliberations, jurors questioned whether Jason Strickland had to be present at the time of the assault in order for them to return a guilty verdict. Judge Carhart instructed them that he did not have to be present, but they would have to believe that an \"ordinary person\" would have realized that leaving Poutre in the care of Holli Strickland presented a serious risk of bodily harm. Strickland was convicted under this premise. Earlier in the trial, a friend of Holli Strickland's testified that she witnessed Holli push Poutre down the stairs three times in a row as a punishment, each time screaming at her to walk back up before pushing her down them again. Jurors did not believe that Jason Strickland was present for the specific assault that led to Poutre's near fatal injuries, but that he knew the abuse was ongoing. He was also convicted of other charges of assault and battery for striking Poutre himself on previous occasions; he was convicted on the assumption that although Holli was the primary abuser, he failed to stop that abuse. Strickland was sentenced to twelve to fifteen years in prison.\n\nIn 2008, Poutre was released from Brighton rehabilitation hospital to live as a foster child with Keith and Becky Arnett in Southwick, Massachusetts. She was adopted by the Arnetts in 2010 at the age of sixteen and attended a special education program in the Southwick public school system. She remains substantially disabled and relies on a wheelchair, but is able to feed herself and use a letterboard to communicate. Regarding the attack, Poutre's adoptive father reports that she knows she was hurt, but she is unable to remember any specifics about the event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6793232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6793232", "title": "Harold Pringle", "text": "Harold Pringle\n\nHarold Joseph Pringle (died 5 July 1945) was the only soldier of the Canadian Army to be executed during the Second World War.\n\nPringle and his father tried to enlist in The Hastings and Prince Edward Regiment of the Canadian Army. On medical examination, he was accepted, but his father was turned away due to poor eyesight.\n\nPringle was a disciplinary problem for his unit, going AWOL many times, and he was sent to a reformatory camp for a year. He escaped after serving six months there and was sent to Italy where he was posted to the 1st Battalion, The Hastings and Prince Edward Regiment, as a private with the service number C/5292. Pringle's combat record after the escape was unblemished until after the battle for the Hitler Line in central Italy, when he deserted to Rome to join the Sailor Gang. \n\nThe Sailor Gang, though only five members strong, was similar to the larger and better organized Lane Gang—both gangs smuggled goods into Rome for the black market. The members of the Sailor Gang lived pleasantly for many months, but then things started going downhill. They were almost always drunk, got into fights, and made rash decisions, to the point where one of their members shot another. They tried to take him to the local field hospital, and all of his gang (except one who was given immunity for his testimony at their trials) alleged that he died on the way, claiming also that Pringle and the gang leader shot the man after he was dead several times so it would look like a Mafia killing. The dead gang member was discovered and police apprehended almost all the members of the Sailor Gang, along with the members of the similar, but larger, Lane Gang. \n\nThe various gang members were tried, and Pringle was sentenced to death for murder. An appeal against the decision was rejected. On 5 July 1945, Pringle was executed by a Canadian Army firing squad. He was buried in grave number 11, row B, plot VII at Caserta CWGC Cemetery in Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "84190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84190", "title": "Herschel Grynszpan", "text": "Herschel Grynszpan\n\nHerschel Feibel Grynszpan (; 28 March 1921 – last rumoured to be alive 1945, declared dead 1960) was a Polish-Jewish refugee, born in Germany. His assassination of the German diplomat Ernst vom Rath on 7 November 1938 in Paris was used by the Nazis as a pretext to launch \"Kristallnacht\", the antisemitic pogrom of 9–10 November 1938. Grynszpan was seized by the Gestapo after the Fall of France and brought to Germany. Grynszpan's eventual fate remains unknown. It is generally assumed that he did not survive the Second World War, and he was declared dead in 1960. In 2016 a photograph of a man resembling Grynszpan was cited as evidence to support the claim that he was still alive in Bamberg, Germany, as of 3 July 1946. He is the subject of the book \"The Short, Strange Life of Herschel Grynszpan\", by author Jonathan Kirsch.\n\nHerschel Grynszpan was born in Hanover, Germany. His parents, Sendel and Riva, were Polish Jews who had emigrated from Poland in 1911 and settled in Hanover, where Sendel opened a tailor's shop, from which the family made a modest living. Because of the German Citizenship Law of 1913, based on the principles of \"jus sanguinis\", Grynszpan was never a German citizen despite being born in Germany. They became Polish citizens after the First World War, and retained that status during their years in Germany. Herschel was the youngest of six children, only three of whom survived childhood. The first child was stillborn in 1912. The second child, daughter Sophie Helena, born in 1914, died of scarlet fever in 1928. A daughter Esther was born on 31 January 1916, and a son, Mordechai, on 29 August 1919. A fifth child, Salomone, was born in 1920 and died in 1931 in a road accident. On 28 March 1921, Herschel was born.\n\nThe Grynszpan family were \"Ostjuden\" (\"Eastern Jews\") as the Germans and many Jews in West Europe described Jews from Eastern Europe. The \"Ostjuden\" usually spoke Yiddish and they also tended to be considerably more religiously observant, impoverished and less well educated than German Jews. Given the situation of the \"Ostjuden\" in Germany, unlike German Jews who tended to see themselves as Germans first and Jews second, Grynszpan grew up with an intense sense of his Jewishness, and he always regarded himself first and foremost as a Jew. Grynszpan dropped out of school at the age of 14. Grynszpan was considered by his teachers to be an intelligent, if rather lazy, student who never seemed to try to excel at his studies. Grynszpan himself later complained that his teachers disliked him because he was an \"Ostjude\", and that he was treated as an \"outcast\" by both his German teachers and fellow students. As a child and a teenager, Grynszpan was well known for his violent temper, and his tendency to respond to any anti-Semitic insult with his fists, leading him to be frequently suspended from school for the fights that he was often getting into.\n\nHerschel attended a state primary school until he was 14, in 1935. He later said that he left school because Jewish pupils were already facing discrimination. He was an intelligent, too sensitive and easily provoked youth with few close friends who found him too touchy, although he was an active member of the Jewish youth sports club, Bar-Kochba Hanover. When he left school, his parents decided there was no future for him in Germany, and tried to arrange for him to emigrate to the British Mandate of Palestine. With financial assistance from Hanover's Jewish community, Herschel was sent to a yeshiva (rabbinical seminary) in Frankfurt, where he studied Hebrew and the Torah: he was, by all accounts, more religious than his parents. After eleven months he left the yeshiva and returned to Hanover, where he applied to emigrate to Palestine. But the local Palestine emigration office told him he was too young, and would have to wait a year. Rather than wait, Herschel and his parents decided that he should go to live with his uncle and aunt, Abraham and Chawa Grynszpan, in Paris. He obtained a Polish passport and a German residence permit, and received permission to leave Germany for Belgium, where another uncle, Wolf Grynszpan, was living. He had no intention of staying in Belgium, however, and in September 1936, he entered France illegally. He was unable to enter France legally because he had no financial support, while Jews were not permitted to take money out of Germany.\n\nIn Paris, Grynszpan lived in a small Yiddish-speaking enclave of Polish Orthodox Jews, and he met few people outside it, learning only a few words of French in two years. Initially, Grynszpan lived a carefree, bohemian life as a \"poet of the streets\", spending his days aimlessly wandering the streets of Paris reciting Yiddish poems to himself; Grynszpan's two biggest interests other than exploring Paris were hanging out in coffeehouses and going to the cinema. Grynszpan spent this period trying to get legal residence in France, without which he could not work or study legally, but was rejected by French officials. His re-entry permit for Germany expired in April 1937 and his Polish passport expired in January 1938, leaving him without legal papers. In July 1937, the Prefecture of Police ruled that Grynszpan had no basis for his request to stay in France, and in August he was ordered to leave the country. He had no re-entry permit for Germany and in any case had no desire to go there. In March 1938, Poland had passed a law depriving Polish citizens who had lived continuously abroad for more than five years of their citizenship. Grynszpan effectively became a stateless person as a result, and continued to live in Paris illegally. The lonely Grynszpan living in poverty on the margins of French life as an illegal immigrant, and with no real skills or having much in the way of a future, grew increasingly desperate and angry as his situation continued to worsen. Grynszpan was afraid to take a job because of his illegal immigrant status, and depended upon his uncle Abraham to support him, who himself was extremely poor, and could only provide so much for his nephew. Grynszpan's refusal to work caused much tension with his uncle and aunt, who frequently told him that he was a major drain on their finances, and he had to take a job, regardless of the heightened risk of deportation that it entailed. From October 1938 onwards, Grynszpan was in constant hiding as the French police were looking for him in order to deport him, a situation that put Grynszpan under considerable stress and strain. The few who did know Grynszpan in Paris described him as a shy, but intensely emotional teenager who often cried when discussing the sufferings of Jews around the world, a subject that he was obsessed with, especially the suffering of his beloved family back in Germany. Grynszpan came from an extremely close-knit, loving family and for him, his family was his world; Grynszpan often spoke of his great love for his family and of how much he missed them.\n\nMeanwhile, the position of the Grynszpan family in Hanover was becoming increasingly precarious. Sendel's business was declining, and Herschel's siblings both lost their jobs. In August 1938 the German authorities announced that all residence permits for foreigners were being cancelled and would have to be renewed. This was in reaction to a Polish decree which was to take away the Polish citizenship of Jews living outside the country, including those in Germany. A few days before that decree was to come into force, on 26 October, the Gestapo was ordered to arrest and deport all Polish Jews residing in Germany immediately, an event called the Polenaktion. The Grynszpan family was among the estimated 12,000 Polish Jews arrested, stripped of their property, and herded aboard trains headed for Poland. At the trial of Adolf Eichmann, Sendel Grynszpan recounted the events of their deportation on the night of 27 October 1938: \"Then they took us in police trucks, in prisoners' lorries, about 20 men in each truck, and they took us to the railway station. The streets were full of people shouting: \"Juden raus! Raus nach Palästina!\" (\"Out with the Jews! Off to Palestine!\").\n\nWhen they reached the border, they were forced to walk to the Polish border town of Zbąszyń (\"Bentschen\", in German). Poland refused to admit them at first, as the \"Sanation\" regime had no intention to accept the return of those it had just stripped of their Polish citizenship. The \"Polenaktion\" stopped on October 29, when the Polish government threatened to start expelling German nationals from Poland. The Grynszpans and thousands of other Polish-Jewish deportees stranded at the border were fed by the Polish Red Cross. Conditions for the hapless refugees trapped out in the open on the German-Polish frontier were extremely bad. A British woman who went to work with the Red Cross in providing help reported: \"I found thousands crowded together in pigsties. The old, the sick and children herded together in the most inhumane conditions.\" Life there was so bad, she continued \"that some actually tried to escape \"back\" to Germany and were shot\". It was from Zbąszyn that his sister Berta sent a postcard to Herschel in Paris, recounting what had happened and, in a line that was crossed out, apparently pleading for help. The postcard was dated 31 October and reached Herschel on Thursday, 3 November.\n\nOn the evening of Sunday, 6 November 1938, Grynszpan asked his uncle Abraham to send money to his family. Abraham said he had little to spare, and that he was incurring both financial cost and legal risks by harbouring his nephew, an undocumented alien and unemployed youth. There was a furious scene, and Herschel walked out of his uncle's house carrying about 300 francs which was a day's average wage in Paris at the time. He spent the night in a cheap hotel. On the morning of 7 November, Grynszpan wrote a farewell postcard to his parents, which he put in a pocket. He went to a gunshop in the Rue du Faubourg St Martin, where he bought a 6.35mm revolver and a box of 25 bullets for 235 francs. He caught the metro to the Solférino station and walked to the German Embassy at 78 Rue de Lille. It is generally believed that Grynszpan wanted to assassinate Count Johannes von Welczeck, the German ambassador to France. As he entered the embassy, Grynszpan walked past Count von Welczeck, who was leaving for his daily morning walk on the Paris streets. At 09:45 am at the Embassy reception desk, Grynszpan represented himself as a German resident and asked to see an Embassy official; he did not ask for anyone by name (an important point in the light of later events). Grynszpan claimed to be some sort of spy who had very important intelligence, which he had to hand over to the most senior diplomat available, preferably the ambassador. Unaware that he had just walked past Count von Welczeck, Grynszpan asked if he could see \"His Excellency, the ambassador\", to hand over the \"most important document\" he claimed to have. The clerk on duty asked Ernst vom Rath, the more junior of the two Embassy officials available, to see him. When Grynszpan entered vom Rath's office, Rath asked to see the \"most important document\". Instead, Grynszpan pulled out his gun and shot him five times in the abdomen. According to the French police account, he shouted \"You're a filthy \" and that he acted in the name of 12,000 persecuted Jews.\n\nGrynszpan made no attempt to resist or escape, and he identified himself correctly to the French police. He confessed to shooting vom Rath (who was in critical condition in a hospital), and again said that his motive for doing so was to avenge the persecuted Jews. In his pocket was the postcard to his parents. It said: \"With God's help. My dear parents, I could not do otherwise, may God forgive me, the heart bleeds when I hear of your tragedy and that of the 12,000 Jews. I must protest so that the whole world hears my protest, and that I will do. Forgive me. Hermann [his German name]\"\n\nDespite the best efforts of French and German doctors, including Adolf Hitler's personal physician Karl Brandt, vom Rath died on 9 November, aged 29. On 17 November, vom Rath was given a state funeral in Düsseldorf, which was attended by Hitler and Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop with considerable publicity. In his funeral oration, Ribbentrop described the shooting as an attack by the Jews on the German people: \"We understand the challenge, and we accept it\", he said. Then, vom Rath's assassination was used as a justification for planned anti-semitic atrocities and pogroms in Germany. The day of Rath's death was the fifteenth anniversary of the Beer Hall Putsch of 1923, the \"Tag der Bewegung\" (Day of the Movement): the greatest day of the Nazi calendar. That evening Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels, after consulting with Hitler, made an inflammatory speech at the Bürgerbräukeller beer hall in Munich where the Putsch had been organised, in front of a crowd of veteran Nazis from all over Germany. It would not be surprising, he said, if the German people were so outraged by the assassination of a German diplomat by a Jew that they took the law into their own hands and attacked Jewish businesses, community centres and synagogues. Such \"spontaneous outbursts\", he said, should not be openly organised by the Nazi Party or the SA but neither should they be opposed or prevented. That Rath's death was only a pretext was shown by Goebbels's diary entry from that day where Goebbels wrote: \"In the afternoon the death of the German diplomat vom Rath is announced. That's good...I go to the Party reception in the old Rathaus. Terrific activity. I brief Hitler on the affair. He decides: allow the demonstrations to go on. Withdraw the police. The Jews should feel the people's fury. That's right. I issue appropriate instructions to the police and party. Then I give a brief speech on the subject to the Party's leadership. Thunderous applause. Everyone dashed to the telephone. Now the people will act\".\n\nWithin hours, Nazis began a pogrom against Jewish communities throughout Germany, known as \"Kristallnacht\" (\"Night of Broken Glass\"), which lasted all night and into the next day. More than 90 people were killed, more than 30,000 Jews arrested and sent to concentration camps (where over a thousand died of mistreatment before the remainder were released some months later) and thousands of Jewish shops, homes, offices and more than 200 synagogues smashed up or burned. More than 1 billion Reichsmarks' damage to property was reported (about US$400 million at the time, or US$6.7 billion in 2015 dollars). Although Jews were able to make insurance claims for their property losses, Hermann Göring, in charge of German economic planning, ruled that the claims would not be paid in this instance. These events shocked and horrified world opinion and helped bring to an end the climate of support for appeasement of Hitler in Britain, France and the United States. They also caused a new wave of Jewish emigration from Germany.\n\nGrynszpan felt distraught when he learned that his action was used by the Nazis as a 'justification' for further violent assaults on the German Jews (although his own family, having already been deported to the Polish border, was safe from this particular manifestation of Nazi anti-Semitism). The assassination of vom Rath was used as a pretext for the launch of the pogrom. The Nazi government had been planning violence against the Jews for some time and it was waiting for an appropriate pretext.\n\nThe death of vom Rath and the horrors of the \"Kristallnacht\" pogrom brought Herschel Grynszpan international notoriety. Grynszpan enjoyed the celebrity status that killing Rath brought him, and from his prison cell, he basked in the media spotlight, giving frequent interviews with journalists and writing letters to famous people around the world.\n\nOn 14 November, Dorothy Thompson, who in 1934 had become the first American journalist to be expelled from Nazi Germany, made an impassioned broadcast to an estimated 5 million listeners in defence of Grynszpan, pointing out that the Nazis themselves had made heroes of the assassins of Austrian Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss and German Foreign Minister Walther Rathenau.\n\nLiberal and left-wing newspapers and commentators in many countries echoed her sentiments. While deploring the assassination, they argued that Grynszpan had been driven to his act by the Nazi persecution of German Jews in general and the persecution of his family in particular. Jewish organizations were horrified by Grynszpan's action, which they condemned more severely than most non-Jewish liberals, while echoing the plea of extenuating circumstances, and condemning the subsequent victimization of all German Jews in response to the act of an isolated individual. The World Jewish Congress \"deplored the fatal shooting of an official of the German Embassy by a young Polish Jew of seventeen\", but \"protested energetically against the violent attacks in the German press against the whole of Judaism because of this act\" and especially against the \"reprisals taken against the German Jews.\" In France The Alliance Israélite Universelle \"rejected all forms of violence, regardless of author or victim\", but \"indignantly protested against the barbarous treatment inflicted on an entire innocent population.\"\n\nSeveral appeals were launched to raise money for Grynszpan's defence. In the U.S., Thompson launched an appeal which raised more than $40,000 in a few weeks: she asked that Jews not donate to the fund, so that the Nazis could not attribute Grynszpan's defence to a Jewish conspiracy. Jewish organizations also raised money. In the immediate aftermath of the assassination, two Paris Jewish lawyers, Szwarc and Vésinne-Larue, were engaged by the Grynszpan family. Once the case became internationally known the family sought a well-known lawyer and retained Isidore Franckel one of Paris's leading advocates and President of the Central Committee of the Alliance of Revisionist Zionists, also known as Hatzohar.\n\nIsidore Franckel wanted a well-known but non-Jewish lawyer as co-counsel and he engaged Vincent de Moro-Giafferi, a flamboyant Corsican, leading anti-fascist activist, and a former Education Minister in the Radical government of Édouard Herriot, and a Yiddish-speaking lawyer, Serge Weill-Goudchaux, as his associate. Legal fees and costs were paid from Thompson's fundraising for Grynszpan's defence. Until Franckel and Moro-Giafferi took over the defence, everybody had accepted the fact that Grynszpan went to the Embassy in a rage and shot the first German he saw, as a political act in order to avenge the persecution of his family in particular and German Jews in general. Grynszpan's own statements after his arrest supported this: he told the Paris police: \"Being a Jew is not a crime. I am not a dog. I have a right to live and the Jewish people have a right to exist on this earth. Wherever I have been, I have been chased like an animal.\" Franckel and Moro-Giafferi, however, took the view that if Grynszpan was allowed to claim that he had shot vom Rath with such a motive, this would result in his certain conviction and possibly take him to the guillotine (despite his being a minor), since French law took a severe view of political assassination. If, on the other hand, the crime could be shown to have had a non-political motive, this might lead to an acquittal, or at least to a lesser sentence, since French law traditionally took a lenient view of the \"crime passionel\" (crime of passion). Moro-Gaifferi's legal strategy was thus to \"depoliticize\" Grynszpan's actions. Grynszpan himself was enraged by Moro-Giafferi's proposed homosexual \"crime passionel\" defense, insisting vehemently that he was not gay, and that he had killed Rath as an act of political protest against the anti-Semitic policies of the German government. The shy, socially awkward Grynszpan confided to Moro-Giafferi that he never had a girlfriend and was still a virgin, and asked that Moro-Giafferi arrange for him a sexual encounter with a suitably beautiful French girl, so in case he was convicted and sentenced to death, he would not go to the guillotine a virgin. Grynszpan believed himself to be a hero who stood up to the Nazis, and that when his case went to trial that his preferred \"Jewish avenger\" defense would lead to his acquittal. The outcome of the Schwartzbard trial in 1927 when Sholom Schwartzbard was acquitted for assassinating Symon Petliura in 1926 under the grounds that he was avenging the pogroms committed by Ukrainian forces was a major factor in Grynszpan seeking the \"Jewish avenger\" defense, much to the chagrin of Moro-Giafferi.\n\nA theory that Grynszpan was acquainted with Ernst vom Rath prior to the shooting has been circulated. According to this theory, vom Rath was homosexual, and he had met Grynszpan in a Paris bar, Le Boeuf sur le Toit. It is not clear whether Grynszpan was himself alleged to be homosexual, or whether he was said to be using his youth and appearance to win an influential friend. According to this theory, vom Rath had promised to use his influence to get Grynszpan's position in France regularized. When vom Rath reneged on this promise, Grynszpan went to the Embassy and shot him. In support of the theory, Hans-Jürgen Döscher, a leading German authority on the period and author of \"Reichskristallnacht\", published documents in 2001 which he said showed that Grynszpan and vom Rath had had a sexual relationship. Döscher quoted extracts from the diary of French author André Gide, himself homosexual and well-informed regarding Parisian gay gossip. Vom Rath, Gide supposedly wrote, \"had an exceptionally intimate relationship with the little Jew, his murderer\"; and further: \"The idea that such a highly thought-of representative of the Third Reich sinned twice according to the laws of his country is rather amusing.\"\n\nCorinne Chaponnière, a Swiss researcher, has lately shown that this quotation is wrongly attributed to André Gide. It is his close friend and neighbour Maria Van Rysselberghe who quotes information that their common friend Jean Schlumberger has brought home in December 1938.\n\nThere are arguments against the theory that vom Rath had a sexual relationship with Grynszpan. There is no evidence that they had ever met other than second-hand gossip of the type recorded by Maria Van Rysselberghe. The officials at the German Embassy were clear that Grynszpan had not asked to see vom Rath by name, and that he saw vom Rath only because he happened to be on duty at the time Grynszpan visited the Embassy, and because the desk clerk asked vom Rath to see Grynszpan. While interned in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp in 1941, Grynszpan told fellow inmates that he was intending to claim at his trial that he had engaged in homosexual relations with vom Rath, but he then said that this was not true. Michael Marrus, a post-war historian, wrote:\n\nThe origin of the story of homosexuality was the defendant's French attorney, Maitre Moro-Giafferi. He claimed in 1947 that he simply invented the story as a possible line of defence, one that would put the affair in an entirely new light. In fact, however, rumors about vom Rath's homosexuality were in the air in Paris immediately after the assassination. Whatever the origins of the story, its utility was obvious: the murder could be presented not as a political act but as a \"crime passionel\" – a lover's quarrel, in which the German diplomat could be judged incidentally as having seduced a minor. Moro-Giafferi shared the fears of the Grynszpan committee at the time of \"Kristallnacht\" that a political trial would be a catastrophe for the Jews of Germany and elsewhere. By adopting this legal strategy, they hoped to defuse the affair and also reduce the penalty drastically, possible even prompting a suspended sentence.\n\nFurther evidence is presented by Gerald Schwab in the form of a letter, sent to Ernst vom Rath's brother in 1964 by Erich Wollenberg, a communist exile from Nazi Germany who claimed to be an associate of Moro-Giafferi:\n\nOne day, and unless I am mistaken it was in the spring of 1939, I met Moro-Giafferi on Boulevard St. Michel, and I asked him for news of Grunspahn for whom he was the defence lawyer. He had just come from visiting him in his cell, and was revolted by the attitude of his client. \"That young man is a fool, infatuated with himself\", he said. \"He refuses to give a non-political character to his act by saying for example that he assassinated vom Rath because he had had money quarrels with him following homosexual relations. Yet, such an attitude in regard to the murder of vom Rath is necessary, in order to save the Jews of the Third Reich, whose lives are becoming more and more precarious in regard to the prosperity, their health, their futures, etc. If only ... he would deny the political motives of his crime, and assert that he had only personal vengeance in mind, vengeance as a victim of homosexuality, the Nazis would lose their best pretext for exercising their reprisals against the German Jews who are victims of his fit of madness and now, of his obstinacy.\" I asked him if Grunspahn really had had relations with vom Rath. He replied, \"Absolutely not!\" I said to him then, \"But as a defender of Gruhnspahn [sic] shouldn't you protect not only the interests of your client, but his honour as well?\" It was at that moment that Moro-Giafferi exclaimed, \"Honour! Honour! What is the honour of that absurd little Jew in the face of the criminal action of Hitler? What does the honour of Grunspahn [sic] weigh in the face of the destiny of thousands of Jews?\"\n\nOn the eve of the 75th anniversary of Kristallnacht (November 2013), Dutch author Sidney Smeets published a book based on previously inaccessible archival sources. The book \"De wanhoopsdaad: hoe een zeventienjarige jongen de Kristallnacht ontketende\" (\"An Act of Desperation\") delves into the court files regarding German journalist Michael Soltikow's () defamation-trials in the 1950s-60s. Soltikow was sued by Vom Rath's surviving brother in 1952 for libeling the deceased's name. New research reveals that the 'evidence' Soltikow presented to support his claims of a homosexual relationship between Vom Rath and Grynszpan did not stand up in a court of law. All witnesses, even those quoted to the contrary by Soltikow, under oath denied any knowledge of the alleged affair. Subsequently the author argues that Döscher's argument is untenable as he based it almost entirely on Soltikow's allegations. The book concludes Grynszpan and Vom Rath did not know each other and that there is no evidence either was homosexual. Regardless, the claim of homosexuality proved very damaging to Grynszpan's reputation. American journalist Jonathan Mark (who believed in the theory of the Rath-Grynszpan relationship) wrote in 2010: \"I guarantee you, if everything about Grynszpan's case was the same, except that he slept with Anne Frank, or some other nice Jewish girl, instead of Ernst vom Rath, he'd be the subject of symposiums and seminars every Kristallnacht and Yom HaShoah, too, and day school lesson-plans, and there'd be floats in his honor at the Salute to Israel Parade.\"\nFrom November 1938 to June 1940, Grynszpan was imprisoned in the Fresnes Prison in Paris while legal arguments continued over the conduct of his trial. He was in Nazi hands as he was illegally extradited to Germany on 18 July 1940, and was being interrogated by the Gestapo. The defence sought to delay the trial as long as possible by making procedural difficulties, in the hope that the publicity surrounding the vom Rath murder would quiet down and the trial would be less politicized, but the prosecution was also in no hurry. Goebbels sent Wolfgang Diewerge, a lawyer and a journalist who had joined the NSDAP in 1930 to represent the German government in Paris. A prominent German lawyer and a professor of international law at the University of Münster, Friedrich Grimm, was also sent to Paris, supposedly representing the vom Rath family, but in fact was widely known to be an agent of Goebbels. Grimm tried to argue that Grynszpan should be extradited to Germany, even though he was not a German citizen – there was no way the French government could agree to this. Grimn and Diewerge knew each other well, having worked closely together in the \"Cairo Jew Trial\" of 1934, and in many ways their efforts in Paris in 1938-39 was a repeat of their work in Cairo in 1934. The Germans argued that Grynszpan had acted as the agent of a Jewish conspiracy, and their fruitless efforts to find evidence to support this contention further delayed the trial. Grimn and Diewerge, who were both fanatical anti-Semites, were obsessed by the belief that Grynszpan had acted on behalf of unknown Jewish \"Hintermänner\" (\"backers\") who were also responsible for the assassination of Wilhelm Gustloff by David Frankfurter in 1936. Their attempts to find the \"\"Hintermänner\" and to link Grynszpan to Frankfurter served to slow down the case, not the least because neither man would accept the contention of the Paris police that the \"Hintermänner\"\" did not exist and there was no connection between the killings of Rath and Gustloff. The American historian Alan Steinweis sarcastically commented that the complete lack of any evidence for the existence of the Jewish \"\"Hintermänner\" did not lead either Grimn and Diewerge to the conclusion that the \"Hintermänner\" did not in fact exist, but rather to the conclusion that the Jewish conspiracy against Germany was far more insidious than either had realized as the \"Hintermänner\" had managed to erase all evidence of their existence.\" The outbreak of World War II in September 1939 made it impossible for the Germans to participate further directly as their country was now at war with France (although they engaged a Swiss lawyer to represent their interests), and also causing the French authorities to lose interest in prosecuting Grynszpan. Grynszpan applied for release from detention so that he could join the French Foreign Legion, but this was refused. \n\nOnce war broke out, Moro-Giafferi changed tactics and demanded an immediate trial, confident that the anti-German mood, and the inability of the Germans to present evidence, would result in Grynszpan's acquittal. But the investigating judge had joined the army, the Ministry of Justice did not want the trial to proceed, and the Swiss lawyer engaged by the Germans employed various delaying tactics. As a result, there was no trial, and Grynszpan was still in prison when the invading German Army approached Paris in June 1940. The French authorities evacuated the inhabitants of the Paris prisons to the south in early June. Grynszpan was sent first to Orléans, from where he was sent by bus to the prison at Bourges. En route, however, the convoy was attacked by German aircraft. Some prisoners were killed, while others escaped in the confusion. One of these was apparently Grynszpan, since he was not among the survivors who arrived in Bourges. But Grynszpan had not escaped; he had merely been left behind. Remarkably, instead of making good his escape, he walked to Bourges and turned himself in to the police. From Bourges he was sent to make his own way to Toulouse. Presumably the French expected him to disappear, but he duly presented himself at the prison in Toulouse and was incarcerated. Grynszpan had no money, knew no one in France, and spoke little French. Apparently he believed he would be safer in a French prison than wandering the countryside. \n\nThe Nazis, however, were on Grynszpan's trail. Grimm, by now an official of the German Foreign Ministry, and SS Sturmbannführer Karl Bömelburg arrived in Paris on 15 June with orders to find Grynszpan. They followed him to Orléans, then to Bourges, where they learned that he had been sent to Toulouse, which was in the Unoccupied Zone run by the authorities of Vichy France. France had surrendered on 22 June, and one of the terms of the armistice gave the Germans the right to demand that France surrender all \"Germans named by the German Government\" to the German occupation authorities. Although Grynszpan was not a German citizen, Germany had been his last place of legal residence, and the Vichy authorities made no objection to Grimm's formal demand that he be handed over. On 18 July, Grynszpan was delivered to Bömelburg at the border of the Occupied Zone. He was driven back to Paris, flown to Berlin, and locked up in the Gestapo's headquarters on Prinz-Albrecht-Strasse.\n\nGrynszpan spent the remainder of his life in German custody, being shuttled between Moabit Prison in Berlin and the concentration camps at Sachsenhausen and Flossenbürg. At Sachsenhausen he was housed in the \"bunker\" reserved for \"special prisoners\" – he shared it with the last pre-Anschluss Chancellor of Austria, Kurt Schuschnigg. He received comparatively mild treatment because Goebbels intended that Grynszpan be the subject of a propaganda show trial, to prove the complicity of \"international Jewry\" in the vom Rath killing. Grimm and an official of Goebbels's ministry, Wolfgang Diewerge, were put in charge of the preparations, using the files which had been seized from Moro-Giafferi's offices in Paris (Moro-Giafferi himself had escaped to Switzerland).\n\nGoebbels, however, found it just as difficult to bring Grynszpan to trial in Germany as he had done in France. The Nazis held unchallenged political power, but the state bureaucracy retained its independence in many areas (and in fact harboured the most effective networks of the German Resistance). The Justice Ministry, still staffed by lawyers concerned to uphold the letter of the law, argued correctly that since Grynszpan was not a German citizen, he could not be tried in Germany for a murder he had committed outside Germany, and since he had been a minor at the time he could not face the death penalty. These arguments dragged on through 1940 and into 1941. The solution was to charge Grynszpan with high treason, for which he could be legally tried and executed if convicted. It took some time to persuade everyone concerned of the \"legality\" of this, and it was not until October 1941 that he was formally indicted. The indictment argued that Grynszpan's objective in shooting vom Rath had been to \"prevent through force of threats the Führer and Reichschancellor from the conduct of their constitutional functions\" at the behest of international Jewry. In November Goebbels saw Hitler and gained his approval for a show trial that would put \"World Jewry in the dock\". The trial was set for January 1942. It was arranged for the former French Foreign Minister Georges Bonnet to testify that \"World Jewry\" had been responsible for dragging France into a war with Germany. This was the political objective of the trial.\n\nJanuary 1942 came, however, and the trial did not take place. This was partly because of more momentous events. The United States had entered the war in December, the same month that the German armies had suffered a major setback on the Eastern Front before battling the Soviets near Moscow. In February the Riom Trial of Léon Blum and other French politicians was due to begin – Goebbels did not want two show trials at once. It was partly also because of further legal difficulties. It was feared that Grynszpan would challenge the legality of his deportation from France, which the Justice Ministry officials felt had been \"irregular\". Most disturbing of all, however, was the revelation that Grynszpan would claim that he had shot vom Rath because he had had homosexual relations with him. This was communicated to Grimm, Diewerge, and other officials by Roland Freisler, later the head of the People's Court, but at this time State Secretary of the Justice Ministry, on 22 January. Apparently Grynszpan, having rejected the idea of using this line of defence when Moro-Giafferi had thought of it in 1938, had decided that it was worth a try. He had told one of his Gestapo interrogators, Dr. Heinrich Jagusch, that he intended using this defence as long ago as mid-1941, but the Justice Ministry had not informed Goebbels, who was furious. He wrote in his diary:\n\nThe Justice Ministry reacted to this claim by indicting Grynszpan under Paragraph 175, an act that infuriated Goebbels who argued that this additional indictment implied there was something to the claim of a homosexual relationship between Grynszpan and Rath.\n\nIn March Goebbels again saw Hitler, and assured him that the trial would get under way in May. He did not, however, warn Hitler of the problem of the possibility that Grynszpan might claim that he had had homosexual relations with vom Rath. In April he was still grappling with the problem. He wrote:\n\nI am having lots of work preparing the Grynszpan trial. The Ministry of Justice has deemed it proper to furnish the defendant, the Jew Grynszpan, the argument of Article 175 [the German law against homosexuality]. Grynszpan until now has always claimed, and rightly so, that he had not even known the Counsellor of the Legation whom he shot. Now there is in existence some sort of anonymous letter by a Jewish refugee, which leaves open the likelihood of homosexual intercourse between Grynszpan and vom Rath. It is an absurd, typically Jewish, claim. The Ministry of Justice, however, did not hesitate to incorporate this claim in the indictment and to send the indictment to the defendant. This shows again how foolishly our legal experts have acted in this case, and how shortsighted it is to entrust any political matter whatever to the jurists.\n\nOn 10 April the acting Justice Minister, Franz Schlegelberger, wrote to Goebbels demanding to know whether Hitler, when he had authorized the trial, had been aware that Grynszpan was planning to use the \"homosexual defence\". The issue that was troubling the Justice Ministry was not the allegation that vom Rath had had a sexual relationship with Grynszpan – they knew that to be false, and in fact they knew Grynszpan had told some of his fellow prisoners at Sachsenhausen that it was false. The problem was their belief that vom Rath had in fact been homosexual, that Grynszpan knew details of this (these had been given to him by Moro-Giafferi in Paris), and that he would reveal them in court. This would embarrass both the vom Rath family and the Foreign Ministry. It was also learned that vom Rath's brother Gustav, a Wehrmacht officer had been convicted by a court-martial for homosexuality. The fact that Gustav vom Rath was gay suggested the possibility that Ernst vom Rath may have also been gay.\nSoon after this, Hitler was made aware of the problem – by whom it is not clear, but it is probable that the matter had reached the ears of Martin Bormann, head of the Party Chancellery and Hitler's private secretary, who thought it his duty to inform Hitler that Goebbels had not told him the whole truth about the Grynszpan case. It is probably not coincidental that the Riom Trial was called off on 4 April, after Blum and the other defendants had used it as a platform to attack the Vichy regime. This no doubt helped influence Hitler against a further risky show trial. In any event, by the beginning of May 1942 it was clear to all that Hitler did not favour a trial. The matter was raised on and off for several months more, but without Hitler's approval there could be no progress. In recognition of this, Grynszpan was moved in September to the prison at Magdeburg. Grynszpan's fate after September 1942 is not known. Since his trial was never actually called off, merely postponed indefinitely, he was probably intended to be kept alive in case circumstances changed and a trial became possible. He may still have been alive in late 1943 or early 1944, according to Adolf Eichmann's recollection, at Gestapo headquarters in Berlin.\n\nDespite not knowing what he looked like, Adolf Eichmann believed he inspected Grynszpan in 1943 or 1944 according to Eichmann's own testimony at his trial in 1961, although Eichmann said he neither remembered nor knew what happened to him in the end.\n\nGrynszpan's precise fate is unknown.\n\nOne report said that he was executed in 1940, while Fritz Dahms, an official in the German Foreign Office, stated that he had died just before the end of the war. There were frequent rumors after the war that he had survived and was living under another name in Paris, but there is no evidence to support them. All of the best available evidence suggests that Grynszpan died at Sachsenhausen sometime in late 1942. The consensus of historians is that Grynszpan did not survive. This position was challenged, in 2016, when a photo emerged of a man resembling him in Germany during 1946.\n\nIn April 1952, Michael von Soltikow, a German journalist and a former ardent National Socialist during the era of the Third Reich, published two articles claiming that Grynszpan was living in Paris, and he repeated the gay lover theory surrounding Rath's killing. Graf von Soltikow as he liked to call himself (his real name was Walter Bennecke and he was not an aristocrat) was a self-promoting former SS officer who had specialized in writing anti-Semitic tracts during the era of the Third Reich, and after the war he engaged in much sensationalist journalism, usually with the claim that he was boldly revealing \"secrets\" that no one else dared to mention. Soltikow professed that he was doing a service to \"World Jewry\" by \"proving\" that Grynszpan had killed Rath as the result of a homosexual relationship gone bad rather than as the product of a world Jewish conspiracy.\n\nLikewise, the theory that Grynszpan was living in Paris and was not being prosecuted for the murder of Rath despite the overwhelming evidence of his guilt would have been attractive to many Germans after the war. In the 1950s, there were thousands of Germans who had been involved in the Holocaust who had not been prosecuted for their crimes and were being allowed to live out their days in peace. The German historian Wolfram Wette wrote in 2002 that in the 1950s \"the vast majority of the population retained the nationalistic attitudes that had been inculcated in them earlier. Not only did they not accept the verdict that war crimes had been committed, but they also expressed solidarity with those who had been convicted, protected them and demanded their release, preferably in the form of a general amnesty\". That the Jew who had murdered a German was not prosecuted for his crime by the French despite that he was supposedly living openly in Paris was used as argument for not prosecuting those Germans who had been involved in the murder of Jews during the \"Shoah\".\n\nAfter publishing his articles, Soltikow was sued for defamation by the vom Rath family. In 2013, the Dutch historian Sidney Smeets called Solitkow a \"con-man\" whose statements about Grynszpan and Rath were all lies. During his trial in Munich, Soltikow claimed that Grynszpan was present during the previous day's court proceedings, watching the trial as a spectator. When the judge stated if that were the case, then Grynszpan would have to be arrested for Rath's murder, an angry Soltikow claimed that Grynszpan would never show his face again.\n\nIn 1957 an article written by the German historian Helmut Heiber claimed that he was sent to Sachsenhausen concentration camp and survived the war, while another one by Egon Larsen published two years later argued that Grynszpan had changed his name and was living in Paris and working as a garage mechanic. Heiber's article was revealed to be based entirely upon various rumors that he claimed to have heard that Grynszpan was alive and well, living in Paris while Larsen's report was likewise based on talks with people who claimed in their turn to have met people who knew Grynszpan was living in Paris; despite their claims of Grynszpan's survival, no one had ever actually seen Grynszpan in the flesh. The only person who claimed to have seen Grynszpan was the shady character Soltikow while everyone else claimed to have talked with other people who supposedly met Grynszpan. In 1981, Heiber retracted his article of 1957, stating he now believed that Grynszpan had died during the war.\n\nThe French doctor Alain Cuenot who carried out the most complete search for Grynszpan in the late 1950s reported that not only could he find no evidence that Grynszpan was alive, but that he found no references to Grynszpan in the German documents after 1942, which strongly suggested that Grynszpan had died that year. Dr. Cuenot wrote: \"If Grynszpan had survived the years 1943, 1944 and 1945, it would seem quite unusual that documents would not have been added to those already gathered\". Cuenot further noted that because of the poor living conditions that the inmates of Sachsenhausen were forced to live under, epidemics of various diseases regularly killed thousands of inmates at Sachsenhausen. Cuenot speculated that it was quite possible that Grynszpan had died in one of those epidemics, and that because Grynszpan was supposed to be kept alive to be tried one day, that the SS camp officers would have a vested interest in covering up his death.\n\nBy contrast, the American historian Alan E. Steinweis wrote that Grynszpan was executed by the SS in 1942 when it become clear that he would not be tried after all for the murder of vom Rath. Grynszpan was declared legally dead by the West German government in 1960 with the date of death being fixed as , at the request of his parents who declared that they had heard nothing from him since the war. Given that Grynszpan was extremely close to his parents and siblings (indeed had been moved to assassinate vom Rath out of outrage at their treatment), it is highly unlikely that Grynszpan would have not contacted his parents or his brother if he were alive after the war. During his two years living in Paris between 1936 to 1938, the lonely Grynszpan had written frequently to his family in Hanover, declaring how much he missed them and how he desperately wanted to see them again. The complete absence of any sort of communication with his family after 1945 would have been very much out of character for Grynszpan. His parents, having sent him to \"safety\" in Paris while they and his siblings stayed in Germany, survived the war. Having been deported to Poland, they escaped in 1939 to the Soviet Union, where his sister, Esther, was murdered in 1942.\n\nAfter the war the remaining family members immigrated to the Palestine Mandate, which became Israel. Sendel Grynszpan, Herschel's father, was present at the Israeli premiere in 1952 of Sir Michael Tippett's oratorio about Herschel Grynszpan, \"A Child of Our Time\".\n\nIn his own lifetime, Grynszpan was a figure widely shunned by Jewish communities around the world who viewed him as an irresponsible, immature teenager who by recklessly killing a minor official like vom Rath brought down the wrath of the Nazis in the form of the \"Kristallnacht\". Writer Ron Roizen suggested that the frequent claims of Grynszpan's survival despite all of the evidence suggesting that he died sometime in late 1942 reflected a bad conscience on the part of those Jews who shunned Grynszpan during his lifetime, because his \"abandonment seems a little less problematic, too, once it is believed that the boy miraculously survived the war. Grynszpan alive permits us to avoid more easily the painful moral issues his case so profoundly symbolizes. Was Grynszpan's action that of a heroic martyr or a misguided pariah? Were the reactions to Grynszpan's action among those for whom it was carried out appropriate or inappropriate? Though nearly a half century has passed since Herschel Grynszpan's assassination of Ernst vom Rath, little or no progress has been made on these painful questions.\"\n\nIn December 2016, a photograph discovered in the archives of Vienna's Jewish Museum led some people to suggest that Grynszpan could have survived the war. The photograph was taken at a displaced persons camp in Bamberg, Germany, on 3 July 1946. The photograph shows a man who resembles Grynszpan participating in a demonstration of Holocaust survivors against the British authorities' refusal to let them emigrate to the British mandate of Palestine. A facial recognition test showed a 95% chance that the photo was of Grynszpan, the highest possible outcome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "741881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=741881", "title": "Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial District Court of Nevada", "text": "Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial District Court of Nevada\n\nHiibel v. Sixth Judicial District Court of Nevada, 542 U.S. 177 (2004), is a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that statutes requiring suspects to disclose their names during a police Terry stop did not violate the Fourth Amendment \"if\" the statute first required reasonable and articulable suspicion of criminal involvement. Under the rubric of \"Terry v. Ohio\", , the minimal intrusion on a suspect's privacy, and the legitimate need of law enforcement officers to quickly dispel suspicion that an individual is engaged in criminal activity, justified requiring a suspect to disclose his or her name.\n\nThe Court also held that the identification requirement did not violate Hiibel's Fifth Amendment rights because he had no reasonable belief that his name would be used to incriminate him; however, the Court left open the possibility that Fifth Amendment privilege might apply in a situation where there \"was\" a reasonable belief that giving a name could be incriminating.\n\nThe \"Hiibel\" decision was narrow in that it applied only to states that have stop and identify statutes. Consequently, individuals in states without such statutes cannot be lawfully arrested solely for refusing to identify themselves during a Terry stop.\n\nNevada has a \"stop-and-identify\" law that allows police officers to detain any person they encounter \"under circumstances which reasonably indicate that the person has committed, is committing or is about to commit a crime\"; the person may be detained only to \"ascertain his identity and the suspicious circumstances surrounding his presence abroad.\" In turn, the law requires the person detained to \"identify himself\", but does not compel the person to answer any other questions put to him by the officer. The Nevada Supreme Court has interpreted that \"identify himself\" to mean to merely state his name. As of April 2008, 23 other states have similar laws.\n\nOn the evening of May 21, 2000, the sheriff's department in Humboldt County, Nevada received a report that a man had assaulted a woman in a red and silver GMC truck on Grass Valley Road. The responding deputy found a truck parked on the side of the road. A man was smoking a cigarette beside the truck, and a young woman was sitting inside it. The deputy observed skid marks in the gravel behind the vehicle, leading him to believe the vehicle had come to a sudden stop.\n\nThe deputy explained to the man that there had been a report of a fight between the man and the young woman, and asked the man if he had any identification on him. The man protested that he had no reason to provide identification, and became ill-tempered when the deputy continued to press him for his identification. The man then asked the deputy what crime he was being accused of, as the deputy continued his requests for identification, stating that he was \"conducting an investigation\". The man persisted in his refusal to provide identification, asking instead to be handcuffed and taken to jail. The deputy continued to ask for the man's identification, stating that the man would face arrest if he did not cooperate and provide identification.\nIn response, the man declared he would not cooperate because he had not committed any crime. He then turned around and was arrested by the deputy.\n\nThat man was Larry Dudley Hiibel, the petitioner in this case, and the young woman was his daughter Mimi Hiibel. Larry Hiibel was charged with \"willfully resist[ing], delay[ing], or obstruct[ing] a public officer in discharging or attempting to discharge any legal duty of his office.\" In the Justice Court for Union Township, Nevada, Hiibel was convicted of this charge and fined $250. He appealed to the Sixth Judicial District Court, which affirmed the conviction. He then appealed to the Nevada Supreme Court, arguing that the requirement that he identify himself to any police officer upon request violated the Fourth Amendment prohibition on unreasonable searches and seizures and his Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination. The Nevada Supreme Court rejected these arguments, and Hiibel asked the U.S. Supreme Court to hear the case.\n\nStop-and-identify laws have their roots in early English vagrancy laws under which suspected vagrants were subject to arrest unless they gave a \"good account\" of themselves; this practice, in turn, derived from the common-law power of any person to arrest suspicious persons and detain them until they gave \"a good account\" of themselves. Modern stop-and-identify laws combine aspects of the old vagrancy laws with a guide for police officers conducting investigatory stops, such as those authorized under \"Terry v. Ohio\", .\n\nHowever, the Court has identified a constitutional difficulty with many modern vagrancy laws. In \"Papachristou v. Jacksonville\", , the Court held that a traditional vagrancy law was void for vagueness because its \"broad scope and imprecise terms denied proper notice to potential offenders and permitted police officers to exercise unfettered discretion in the enforcement of the law.\" In \"Brown v. Texas\", , the Court struck down Texas's stop-and-identify law as violating the Fourth Amendment because it allowed police officers to stop individuals without \"specific, objective facts establishing reasonable suspicion to believe the suspect was involved in criminal activity.\" And in \"Kolender v. Lawson\", , the Court struck down a California stop-and-identify law that required a suspect to provide \"credible and reliable identification\" upon request. The words \"credible and reliable\" were vague because they \"provided no standard for determining what a suspect must do to comply with [the law], resulting in virtually unrestrained power to arrest and charge persons with a violation.\"\n\n\"The present case begins where our prior cases left off. Here there is no question that the initial stop was based on reasonable suspicion, satisfying the Fourth Amendment requirements noted in \"Brown\". Further, the petitioner has not alleged that the statute is unconstitutionally vague, as in \"Kolender\". Here the Nevada statute is narrower and precise.\" The Nevada Supreme Court had held that the Nevada statute required only that the suspect divulge his name; presumably, he could do so without handing over any documents whatsoever. As long as the suspect tells the officer his name, he has satisfied the dictates of the Nevada stop-and-identify law.\n\nThe narrow requirements of Nevada's stop-and-identify law meant that it did not run afoul of the Fourth Amendment. \"In the ordinary course a police officer is free to ask a person for identification without implicating the Fourth Amendment.\" Since \"Terry\", it has been clear that a police officer who reasonably suspects that a person is involved in criminal activity may detain a person long enough to dispel that suspicion. Questions related to a person's identity are a \"routine and accepted part of many \"Terry\" stops.\" Knowing a person's identity may, of course, help to clear a suspect and divert the attention of the police to another suspect. On the other hand, knowing the suspect's name may just as quickly confirm to the officer that the person is wanted for another, unrelated crime. In cases such as this, where the police are investigating a domestic dispute, officers \"need to know whom they are dealing with in order to assess the situation, the threat to their own safety, and possible danger to the potential victim.\" \"The request for identity has an immediate relation to the purpose, rationale, and practical demands of a \"Terry\" stop. The threat of criminal sanction helps ensure that the request for identity does not become a legal nullity.\" Balancing the intrusion into the individual's privacy against the extent to which the stop-and-identify law promotes legitimate government interests, the Court concluded that the Fourth Amendment did not prohibit Nevada from making it a crime for a person detained under conditions of \"Terry\" to refuse to disclose his name to a police officer upon request. \n\nFurthermore, the officer's request that Hiibel identify himself did not implicate Hiibel's Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination. There was no \"articulated real and appreciable fear that [Hiibel's] name would be used to incriminate him, or that it 'would furnish a link in the chain of evidence needed to prosecute' him.\" Because Hiibel did not articulate reasonable belief that his name could be used as an incriminating piece of evidence, he could not invoke the Fifth Amendment privilege in refusing to disclose it.\n\nJustice Stevens opined that the Court's precedent required it to strike down Nevada's stop-and-identify law. Under the Court's \"Terry\" jurisprudence, a suspect has always had the right to refuse to answer questions put to him by police officers during a \"Terry\" stop. And the Fifth Amendment privilege had always attached during custodial interrogations because information extorted by the police during such interrogations is unavoidably testimonial. Why else would the police ask for a person's name, if not to determine whether that person was either wanted for committing a crime or directly suspected of committing a crime? \"The officer in this case told [Hiibel] that he was conducting an investigation and needed to see some identification. As the target of that investigation, [Hiibel], in my view, acted well within his rights when he opted to stand mute. Accordingly, I respectfully dissent.\"\n\nJustice Breyer noted that \nthe Court wrote that an 'officer may ask the [\"Terry\"] detainee a moderate number of questions to determine his identity and to try to obtain information confirming or dispelling the officer's suspicions. \"But the detainee is not obliged to respond\".' \"Berkemer v. McCarty\", (emphasis added)... the Court's statement in \"Berkemer\", while technically dicta, is the kind of strong dicta that the legal community typically takes as a statement of the law. And that law has remained undisturbed for more than 20 years. There is no good reason now to reject this generation-old statement of the law.\n\nJustice Breyer also expressed a \"slippery-slope\" concern that the majority's opinion would lead to allowing the police to ask follow-up questions, such as what the person's license number is, or where a person lives, without running afoul of constitutional protections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24602099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24602099", "title": "History of the Italian State Police", "text": "History of the Italian State Police\n\nThe history of the Italian State Police (Polizia di Stato) began in 1848, continued through the State Police Reform Act of 1981, until today, thus producing more than a century and a half of the institutional history of the men and women who have performed this duty and sometimes gave their lives.\n\nThe department of the Cavalry of the Italian State Police inherits a very ancient tradition, dating back to 'the nineteenth century, the predominant use is for law and order patrols and detail the origins of the administration of public security in the modern sense, be traced back to King Carlo Alberto, who formed in 1848 as civil administration. In the reorganization of the Savoy state, the spatial distribution of the forces of military control [2], was joined by a civilian structure composed of delegates from the police. Soon, the peculiar needs of these, together with the observation of what was developing in other states, required the establishment of the armed forces specially dedicated to police functions, preferably released from certain obligations typical of traditional military forces.\nThe first corps that gave life to the police at the time were the Municipal Militia and National Guard. Successively, with the law July 11, 1852, and 1404, created the Public Safety Guards, who had two companies at Turin and Genoa (in addition to some stations). The law November 13, 1859, and 3720, it extended the territorial jurisdiction for all states (minus Tuscany), which were gradually annexing the Kingdom of Sardinia, the same rule given command of the duties of public security as quaestor of the city capital of the province with over 60,000 inhabitants, and for the first time it was established the role of inspectors.\nThe Royal Decree of October 9, 1861, n. 255, created the General Directorate of Public Security, thereby increasing temporarily the structure, then grew up to the rank of division, but the 'next year, with the establishment of the Secretariat General of the Interior Ministry, the administration was reduced to the rank Division and placed under the responsibility of the Secretary General. The activities of the Corps were also distinct in 1880, in police administration, police and judicial affairs division reserved.\n\nBy Royal Decree of July 3, 1887, n. 4707, the government De Pretis restored the Directorate General. In December 1890 (Interior Minister Francesco Crispi) The union of the Militia and the Municipal Public Security Guards, was born on Guards City.\n\nIn 1902, mainly by Salvatore Ottolenghi, a student of Cesare Lombroso [3], during the Giolitti Government II founded the school of forensic science [4], led by its founder, the same Ottolenghi, first student of the techniques scientific investigation.\n\nIn 1917 was instituted the UCI, Central Office investigations, which gathered in part the legacy of the Political Affairs Division confidential and would spent on counterintelligence, and the control was assigned to Gast.\n\nIn August 1919, during the Nitti Government II, City Guards were disbanded and were up the body of the Royal Guard of Public Safety (12 divisions with 40,000 men), hand-to-order military deputy to the maintenance of 'public order and quite free from any influence of politics, and the corps of detectives (8,000 men), specializing in the tasks of the judicial police.\n\nOn December 31, 1922 Benito Mussolini, head of the infant government, led the two bodies (causing violent reactions of some negligence on the part of the troops involved), which were then absorbed into the Army of the Royal Carabinieri. In the same maneuver, was created the Volunteer Militia for National Security or MVSN.\nAmong the many reasons that have been proposed for this choice, many scholars are inclined to consider it more likely the need for the new chairman of the board to refer to more easily control all the state structures (what would later be most evident when all Fascist governments were organized as a paramilitary): If the troops of the two military police was certainly in the upper part of the chain of command was rather civil, so do not undergo the rigors of the regulations that underlie the men in uniform, first of all precisely the iron chain of command. With the unification of the carabinieri would be easier to control over all the police through the control of the only weapon that Mussolini considered within his reach. The formation of the Militia, due also to Dino Grandi, responded to the need instead to frame forms legally acceptable (as well as smuggled grateful \"recognition\") the \"de facto forces\" of the squad.\n\nNevertheless, the distinction of a special police functions still needed to fascism, but being able to resolve the issue with the centralization of command at the Interior Ministry, which could have the forces of the Ministry of War [5]. The offices of government were therefore maintained direct emanation in place, with even some small operation that showed continued attention. By Royal Decree of November 11, 1923, n. 2395, the figure of the Director General of Public Security was renamed (without other substantive changes) in \"General Intendant of Police\", by Royal Decree December 20, 1923, n. 2908, which converted the existing anchor name \"Chief of Police.\"\n\nIn April 1925 was (re) constitute the body of public security officials, which resumed if only the tradition of the dissolved bodies, in part to regain the consent from the police, far above the melting down (which collaterally had also undermined the internal consistency between the Police, in which they were paid indiscriminately former police officers) and the growth of the power of the militia, in which there were, during the fascism, a number of skills or interference in fact. The reconstitution of the body is reached, however, because the Carabinieri, the most ancient traditions, had remained loyal to the crown and it was argued, the attempt to gain control was stopped before colliding with an unfortunate defeat.\n\nIn 1926 he was appointed Police Chief Arturo Bocchini, just days after his appointment was issued the text of the Law of Public Security (TULPS), which regulates in minute detail the daily life so unusual, and shortly after that was established the Special Tribunal (which had as its task the fight against political opponents), and reinstated the death penalty.\nBocchini had always the supreme mission of safeguarding the Duce and in this task he increased the common organizational capacity building in 1930 the OVRA (Organismo di Vigilanza per la Repressione dell'Antifascismo - Supervisory Body for the Suppression of anti). In addition, he introduced significant changes in the organizational and technical operation of police stations (many of which have not abolished the Republican era), so you can easily set up an impressive collection of data in real time that the Palazzo Venezia was also analyzed to monitor the popular consensus. Among these changes the so-called \"morning\" bureaucratic relationship with data on present strength and statements of facts (crime, accidents, other events of importance) of the previous day, traditionally the morning is delivered to the recipient (typically the commissioner, but also responsible other commands) just when taking office in the morning, hence the name.\n\nFrom an operational standpoint, with the conquest of colonies, Bocchini devised a special mini-police force for the new territories, the Colonial Police Corps, later renamed the Italian Africa Police (PAI) with unusual uniforms and equipment, echoed from the experiences of explorers from England, and fitted with a preview of the newly made Beretta Model 38 submachine gun, characterized by a kind of radiator for cooling the barrel.\n\nBocchini was a very capable Chief of Police, who managed to run almost single organization soon returned impressive and delicate, a body whose control was obviously essential for the proper keeping of the government and that he himself seems to have wanted to recreate after dissolution of '22, in order to constitute a sort of army to the government (which also had already framed the elements of the militia squads). The police, therefore, was loyal to the government, the Carabinieri the King of Italy, Bocchini was because the real author of a duplication of the national structures of police and military (and intelligence) that best represents the reason for the substantial balance between the Crown and the black fez. In this role, Bocchini was one of the fundamental pillars upon which the edifice of the regime. Bocchini was responsible for conducting the most sensitive profiling of the most prominent of the Italian society of the period, contributing to the creation of the famous \"secret archive\" of Mussolini. Bocchini was still to return to the Duce personally witnessed a very popular discontent caused by the racial laws.\n\nIn this regard, it was among the many dead of Police (through its various denominations), the noble if not unique, Giovanni Palatucci, an official of the Immigration Office, which prevented the deportation of thousands of Jews and that he was deported and died at Mauthausen.\n\nBocchini died in circumstances that some have considered \"not clear\" (not least because very little after the presentation of disclosures in which it warned Mussolini very little consensus on the military and the population faced with the prospect of following the Germany in the war), succeeded Carmine Senise, which some was a man of Badoglio, that the king also Senise, indeed, was aware of the discontent and indeed foresaw the possible dismissal of Mussolini by King, but managed to maintain its appears distinct from the regime.\n\nThe war led the police to update their purpose of use, to cope with situations of public policy course exceptional. In this, it was noted, the zeal of repression was brought to an end almost physiologically, registering an infinite number of crimes committed with actual causes of severe need, while for political offenses, the jurisdiction was transferred almost entirely to military forces. Much as the recruitment of temporary staff required for military forces to fight.\n\nSenise was replaced in April 1943 on the occasion of a general reshuffling of institutional leaders wanted by Mussolini, this reshuffle (which deprived the crown of a man ever trusted a chair so delicate) was considered by some historians real time when the Quirinal was decided, approaching Dino Grandi, to get rid of Mussolini. It is true indeed, that after the July 25, Senise was quickly renamed by Badoglio as Chief of Police. It should be mentioned that Senise was one of the few authorities who do not follow the King and Badoglio in his flight to the South after the 'armistice Cassibile and that was why he was arrested in Rome by the Germans (by Erich Priebke) and was deported to a concentration camp from which he was released at the end of the war.\n\nOn September 6, 1943, when the Armistice of Cassibile had already been signed in secret, before they were given public notice had been disbanded the militia, returning to the police all its major functions.\n\nOn November 2, 1944, a legislative decree Lieutenant of the Realm, was re-imposed the guards, public security, which this time had the status of military force, breaking the tradition that had always seen the police as armed civilian body (except in the short term absorption Carabinieri in war).\n\nThe end of the war was preceded and followed by situations of serious hardship administration, unable to fulfill its institutional duties with satisfactory results. The division of the country and the civil war, along with the widespread banditry, prevented to consider Italy a country \"safe.\" In addition, the police under the leadership of Bocchini was very closely linked to governmental affairs, and then not to collect the most appropriate trust. Shortly before the liberation, it was therefore necessary to issue the ban on membership in political parties or trade unions to all members of the Body, to dispel the suspicion that the police activities could still suffer \"guidelines.\" The spontaneous effiorescenza abundance of problems, also joined the controversial use of police from the government Badoglio, who made use geared towards a concept quite briskly on how to counter the movements of the square and the brawls: animosities were sedated with frequent use of weapons, causing dozens of deaths, despite the time was already plenty of conflict on their behalf, aroused wide condemnation in civil society.\n\nDespite the gravity of the situation generally, in 1945 it gave birth to the specialty of the Railway Police and Traffic Police, the first compartment was installed at the police headquarters in Milan.\n\nThe Ministry of the Interior, after the liberation, was Giuseppe Romita, who also made use of the police later considered questionable by many parties. Romita was to establish the \"Celere\" [6], mandated to help in public security in the post-Liberation era. The Celere was fitted with wooden truncheons at first [7] and some jeeps were provided by the United States Armed Forces.\nRomita, proud of his creation, he turned his attention to the large Celere, who took so once brisk and sometimes nonchalant: during the referendum of 1946 for the option between monarchy and republic, the new Celere raised serious allegations against the royal police who would, they argued, hampered its actions.\n\nThe appointment as Minister of Interior Mario Scelba, in 1947, had a large effect in the rapid reorganization of the police. Elements introduced at the end of the war were disbanded, the so-called auxiliary police, and taken care of loyalty to the state and democracy.\n\nThe Celere, however, still grew by perfecting the equipment (it was equipped with heavy machine guns and even mortars) as a full-time paramilitary national police force capable of situations that the onset of war the cold war made it not unlikely. At the same time, the organization of being revised and certain specialties were divided into separate departments directly dependent on the general direction. These were among the postal police, the traffic police, the railway police and border police.\n\nIn December 1959 the Women's Police Corps was created, evidently composed of female staff and dedicated to sensitive issues of great moral importance, such as the protection of women and the protection of minors, the body, parallel to the police \"traditional\", had also practical purpose of supporting this for some tasks that could not be entrusted to men, such as searching corporal women. The almost simultaneous introduction of the discussed Merlin Law, which came into force on 1 September 1959 and the regulations on prostitution, contributing to increase the skills and staffing needs, making the female corps of even more immediate utility.\n\nThe sixties, the story dominated by youth movements and changes of society, which linked the review to revitalizing the economy of social relations, were led by the figure of the police prefect Angelo Vicari, who left a trail of critical importance.\n\nVicari created the criminal police (Criminalpol), initially as a division for Coordination (concept once again borrowed from other foreign corps) 's Interpol with some internal investigative services. He also had a review of the organization of schools of education, constituted an autonomous division, and the transformation of the Higher School of Police in the Academy of Police. His era was marked by an increased difference and distinguishment between the military and civil police officers within the police services of the republic.\n\nIn any event, the 'military' officers were trained and managed in a manner akin to the officers of the Carabinieri and, as such potential field grade officers were to study in the before posting to more higher commands of the police.\n\nIn this particular situation the police had come to interpret \"Italian\" with the strict provisions of the \"diktat\", the peace treaty which imposed a severe limitation on the number of soldiers that Italy could recruit: with the militarization Police Commissioner, who had not been considered by the Treaty, the police could act as soldiers, \"added 'cunningly evading the terms of the yield and making the country the troops believed that Rome needed. In addition, the costs for maintaining organ so large is justified both by the availability of police force capable of guaranteeing a certain robustness to the system, both on a sort of solidarity (with the recruitment of unemployed) that was even easier for certain forms of political clientelism (and therefore indirectly support of consensus).\n\nThe police were not only a collection center for day laborers that the crisis of agriculture pushed towards the 'emigration and forced new buildings, badly paid and less gratifying: on the one hand, this seemed to be on the other grew technically and soon gained among the population, although it had almost absolute confidence in the Carabinieri, a new reputation as a rewarding effect. Historian physiological antagonism with the weapon was done in terms of technological competition, and was the golden age, for some almost mythological transformation of the police in a body of sophisticated efficiency. Many specialties were created, while the police stations specializing special teams dedicated to certain types of employment: aviation, homicide investigation and mobile patrol units.\n\nAccomplice a taste of journalism, who poured in newspapers the echoes of literary noir fashion, great emphasis was given to the police every day inspired the fantasies of ordinary people. From the pages of news, which made it exciting too bogged sheets increasingly politicized, it evoked the names of policemen who were making daily actions worthy of cinema (and then the new medium of television) and popular amongst all should probably remember the name of Marshal Armando Spatafora, called \"Armandino\", the only licensed guide service of the Ferrari (250 GTE), black, supplied with the Flying Squad in Rome. His actions, which gave rise to a surreal urban legends like the famous chase down the steps of Trinita dei Monti, were a spectacular side of the police, which still constitutes a charm sui generis.\n\nSpatafora also modernized the patrol units within the civil police. The first radio station was established at police headquarters in Milan, where he installed a gigantic apparatus \"Westinghouse 21\" American-made, the original brand ( \"W\") was made in the code radio as \"Double Sail\" and \"Double Vela 21 \"thus became the code name of the plant, while cars derive their names in radio code on the brand of equipment on board,\" Iris \". he plant was actually a trading desk which began to flow all the information necessary for prompt intervention in the urban areas of expertise, and soon would become the terminal of the single emergency, the 113.\n\nThe financial administration of the Treasurer, who was struggling to cope with new demands that the daily reality, the election promises and agreements with other police forces and Interpol imposed could not keep up. The \"modern\" pistol Beretta Model \"51\", as the name indicates it was some time available, was slow to replace the old \"34\" (and its updated version, the \"35\") and if you could, there were sometimes problems with the cartridges in the innovative arms \"9 mm Parabellum. Worse were rifles, obsolete Beretta MAB, which magazines were often empty and the function of which was often only that of visual deterrence, being completely harmless to the lack of bullets.\n\nThe evolution of technology was also followed closely by crime, which began to organize themselves and that soon the police would have undermined the control of some parts of the territory. The old \"bad\" is urbanized and became a sort of underground network that was left over to everyday life, which emerged to perform robberies, murders and extortion, and then immediately submerge into the new in the anonymity of metropolitan cities. The police, for obvious reasons select \"good people\", was struggling to find points of contact useful for the prevention and repression, losing ground in favor of offenders despite many efforts.\n\nThe seventies saw the police services beyond the homologous areas of the Carabinieri, under operating pressures of commitment and seriousness comparable to a state of siege.\n\nIn this decade there were indeed dramatic increase in crime which reached dangerous numbers tragic simultaneously in many \"specialists\", including (but not limited to) terrorism, attempted coups, banditry (kidnapping), smuggling, trafficking in narcotics, robbery, extortion, Mafia robberies, racketeering and of 'wear, as well as political effervescence that for many years resulted in daily armed clashes between young people from opposing factions and between them and the police. This last point was perhaps the main theme of the troubled decade and brought home by the echoes of the \"French May\" (1968), arrived in Italy with a lag. Spontaneous student movements, mostly grouped in one area, though of uncertain terms, left, took on the role of opposition to a system whose effective and substantive democracy was seriously challenged. The fresh knowledge that remained stuck in the first wave of change in direction purely capitalist and consumerist economic system, was turning in the direction of fighting the state which promoted this system through its institutions and its symbols, the most obvious of these - and perhaps the most immediately attacked - was just the police (this also means the weapon).\n\nFrom the first riots in the Faculty of Architecture of Rome (Valle Giulia), ran a road of violence increasing frequency in all major Italian cities, they saw the police forced in practice to organize real actions against guerrillas, cooling, however, and not without advantage, tactics and strategies of the army of Imperial Rome (e.g. Testudo, training of soldiers who joined the shields to protect themselves from the launch of blunt objects). The study of tear gas shells was accelerated, a kind of grenades are capable of emitting just gas tear, and therefore the department of public police were never again bear the sunset \"Musket 91\", which was applied a small Tromboncino for such launches. They were quickly (and expensively) provided armored cars and vans (later called directly \"armored\"), are the budgetary funds for bullets and introduced the short machine gun Beretta M12 [8], were reviewed in full service anti-sabotage and Stock, and profiling \"policies\" were strengthened, as had not happened even in the police mouthpieces. On the other hand, cases of violence and repression of movements by the police occurred that echoed in the years to follow.\n\nPolice uniforms were now unified while separate rank insignia remained (blue-gray jacket and blue pants or skirts were now worn by all ranks), all service vehicles (first gray for public police and green, indeed \"bucks\" for the rest) were all repainted with the innovative white and blue livery for all forces. Disappeared the differences between the uniforms of the officers and those of the staff of the roles below (although recently have been reintroduced small differences, for example for the alamari (frogmen)).\n\nOccurred in the heart of the Left, among others, the dissenting voice of Pier Paolo Pasolini, who with raw honesty the cops knew, sometimes among enrolled in danger threshold of 'literacy, fault, and often unknowingly sent against demonstrators, the real concrete holders of that proletariat in whose name the guerrilla actions were thrown - it marked the poet - from young people \"spoiled children\", intent on fighting a public middle classes that provide them with the shield which went home privately.\nUndoubtedly remain the full vividness of the political debate in many cases is still controversial, for reasons that were erect the flag: the death of Giuseppe Pinelli, such as that of commissioner Luigi Calabresi, already occurred at the time to foresee that the relationship between a part of citizens and institutions would be seriously flawed.\n\nBut the events were able to overcome the weather and the terror took hold, from right and left, with massacres, bombings, murders and other crimes (including robbery for self-financing), giving the title of the disastrous decade \"years of lead. In these, the police suffered a terrible toll of human lives, regaining the solidarity with the blood of the population.\n\nThe emergency was met by the governments in office with some legislative maneuvering it, providing more flexible powers to staff (for example on police custody [9]), stoke controversy over the King's laws and the alleged \"authoritarian,\" while managers were refurbished branches dedicated to the fight against terrorism. Born 's UCIGOS special branch officers, operating on the territory through the DIGOS of each police station and through the NOCS, elite corps for special operations.\n\nIn 1977 the law of reorganization of the intelligence services, which on one hand he centralized the government the direct political control with the submission to CESIS other, it opened to facilitate operational coordination of services and the police, opened the operators hope the prospect of a reform of the police. Officials and the state demanded, his voice even more pressing, a review of working conditions, supervision of career, streamlining and facilitation of tasks, as well as better compliance with the task of sacrifice in which they found, however unseemly for salaries for reasons of occupation.\n\nLaw No. 121 of 1 April 1981 was created to answer some of those instances and problems facing the police. Until the eighties, under the heading Police were grouped subjects belonging to three separate organizations:\n\n\nWith the reform imposed by the Law 121, the new State Police, a \" corpo civile militarmente organizzato \" (civic body militarily organization) to protect the State and citizens from crime and disturbance of public order, integrated personnel from the Public Security Corps and the Women's Police Corps into one, joining the civil officials and commissariats under the old police. The new Police became a civil police organization in all respects (new recruits and all agents no longer wore the star, the symbol of the armed forces, and was replaced by the monogram \"RI\" [10]), open to men and women. With the end of the militarized police systems the new PdS ended the long-standing ban for the creation of labour unions, [11] thus police trade unions began to be formed, the largest of them later became the SIULP (Sindacato Italiano Unitario Lavoratori Polizia - Union of Italian Workers Unitary Police) and enactment of major trade union confederations, and SAP (Sindacato Autonomo di Polizia - Union of Autonomous Police), placed on a position of equidistance from the political and social forces. [12].\n\nPolice ranks were finally unified into a common system of police officials, non-commissioned personnel and agents, while separate systems for the medical and technical service personnel were issued. Today the PdS also sports the dark blue uniforms which were adopted in the early 1980s.\n\n1. Source: Page 207, Atlante De Agostini 2008 Calendar\n2. The first Granatieri di Sardegna e Carabinieri or Grenadiers of Sardinia and Carabinieri, then only the latter.\n3. He created the discipline of forensic science.\n4. Then made compulsory for officials, during the Zanardelli government.\n5. Former name of the department of defense today.\n6. Whose name is traditionally feminine because initially designed as a \"squadra\" (Squad) or \"compagnia\" (company), even if he grew to the rank of department.\n7. Taking up the suggestion of the British police, who controlled at that time, and in that way, the city of Trieste.\n8. Then M12S.\n9. In practice, even a simple agent was permitted to conduct at its discretion, also enforced by any citizen of the police station for questioning, and retaining first for a maximum of 48 hours, then dropped to 24.\n10. Which stands for \"Repubblica Italiana\" (Italian Republic) and that some time was used on military badges in place of the cross of Savoy monarchy ancestry\n11. The number of members\n12. Other syndicates operating today, after a few divisions between unions and new formations are the COISP the Consap, the Federazione Sindacale di Polizia (Police Federation of Trade Unions or FSP), the SILP for CGIL and UILPS and SIAP\n\n"}
{"id": "43677789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43677789", "title": "Howden v Ministry of Transport", "text": "Howden v Ministry of Transport\n\nHowden v Ministry of Transport CA195/87 [1987] NZCA 113; [1987] 2 NZLR 747; (1987) 2 CRNZ 417 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding trespass and the defence of implied licence to enter a property \n\nHowden, one early Sunday morning, was driving home to his parents house in Mosgiel. Unbeknown to him, a MOT traffic officer was following him with the intent to do a random stop on him.\n\nHowever, before the traffic officer could pull him over, he had reached his destination, and had pulled up his parents driveway and entered the house. The traffic officer then parked his car up the driveway and proceeded to talk to Howden.\n\nHowden was then asked to sit in the patrol car whilst his driving licence details were checked. The officer then parked his car on the Road (a public place), where Howden admitted he had consumed alcohol.\n\nAs a result of this statement, he was ordered to perform a breath test, which he failed.\n\nHe was charged and later convicted of the offence of driving under the influence of alcohol, being fined $250 and disqualified from driving for 6 months.\n\nHowden subsequently appealed the conviction unsuccessfully to the District Court, on the basis that the breath test was illegally obtained as a result of the traffic officer trespassing, and appealed this time to the High Court.\n\nThe court held that although a person has an implied licence to enter a property, this licence can only be actioned in a reasonable manner. Entering a property at 1.30am in the morning, most people would find an unreasonable hour. That meant that the Traffic officer was trespassing at the time, making the breath test illegal, resulting in the court overturning the conviction.\n\nFootnote: As a result of this court case, the government soon changed the law to make such situations legal.\n"}
{"id": "1367927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1367927", "title": "Judges' Trial", "text": "Judges' Trial\n\nThe Judges' Trial (; or, the Justice Trial, or, officially, The United States of America vs. Josef Altstötter, et al.) was the third of the 12 trials for war crimes the U.S. authorities held in their occupation zone in Germany in Nuremberg after the end of World War II. These twelve trials were all held before U.S. military courts, not before the International Military Tribunal, but took place in the same rooms at the Palace of Justice. The twelve U.S. trials are collectively known as the \"Subsequent Nuremberg Trials\" or, more formally, as the \"Trials of War Criminals before the Nuremberg Military Tribunals\" (NMT).\n\nThe defendants in this case were 16 German jurists and lawyers. Nine had been officials of the Reich Ministry of Justice, the others were prosecutors and judges of the Special Courts and People's Courts of Nazi Germany. They were—amongst other charges—held responsible for implementing and furthering the Nazi \"racial purity\" program through the eugenic and racial laws.\n\nThe judges in this case, held in Military Tribunal III, were Carrington T. Marshall (presiding judge), former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Ohio; James T. Brand, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of Oregon; Mallory B. Blair, formerly judge of the Third Court of Appeals of Texas; and Justin Woodward Harding of the Bar of the State of Ohio as an alternate judge. Marshall had to retire due to illness on June 19, 1947, at which point Brand became president and Harding a full member of the tribunal. The Chief of Counsel for the Prosecution was Telford Taylor; his deputy was Charles M. LaFollette. The indictment was presented on January 4, 1947; the trial lasted from March 5 to December 4, 1947. Ten of the defendants were found guilty; four received sentences for lifetime imprisonment, and six received prison sentences of varying lengths. Four persons were acquitted of all charges.\n\n\nCount 4 applied only to Altstötter, Cuhorst, Engert, Joel (with respect to the SS) and to Cuhorst, Oeschy, Nebelung, and Rothaug concerning the NSDAP leadership. Both organizations had been found criminal previously by the IMT.\n\nCount 1 was dropped: the court declared the charge to be outside its jurisdiction. Judge Blair filed a dissenting opinion that stated that the court should have made a statement that the Military Tribunals of the NMT in fact \"did\" have jurisdiction over charges of \"conspiracy to commit war crimes and crimes against humanity\".\n\nAll defendants pleaded \"not guilty\".\n\nThe highest-ranking officials of the Nazi judicial system could not be tried: Franz Gürtner, Minister of Justice died in 1941; Otto Georg Thierack, Minister of Justice since 1942, had committed suicide in 1946, and Roland Freisler, the President of the People's Court since 1942, was killed in a 1945 bombing raid on Berlin; Günther Vollmer, the Gauführer of Nazi Jurists had been killed in 1945. One who was alive but not tried was Hans Globke (died 1973).\n\nAll convicts were found guilty on all charges brought before them, except Rothaug, who was found guilty only on count 3 of the indictment, while he was found not guilty on counts 2 and 4. However, the court commented in its judgment that:\n\n\"By his manner and methods he made his court an instrumentality of terror and won the fear and hatred of the population. From the evidence of his closest associates as well as his victims, we find that Oswald Rothaug represented in Germany the personification of the secret Nazi intrigue and cruelty. He was and is a sadistic and evil man. Under any civilized judicial system he could have been impeached and removed from office or convicted of malfeasance in office on account of the scheming malevolence with which he administered injustice.\"\n\nThe public considered the sentences generally too low. Most of the convicts were released already in the early 1950s; some (Lautz, Rothenberger, Schlegelberger) even received retirement pensions in West Germany. The guide to German law entitled \"Das Recht der Gegenwart\" is still being published under the name Franz Schlegelberger ().\n\nThe Judges' Trial was the inspiration for the 1961 movie \"Judgment at Nuremberg\", starring Spencer Tracy, Burt Lancaster, Richard Widmark, Marlene Dietrich, Maximilian Schell, Judy Garland, Montgomery Clift, Werner Klemperer and William Shatner.\n\n"}
{"id": "34644725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34644725", "title": "Jurisprudence of concepts", "text": "Jurisprudence of concepts\n\nThe jurisprudence of concepts was the first \"sub-school\" of legal positivism, according to which, the written law must reflect concepts, when interpreted. Its main representatives were Ihering, Savigny and Puchta.\n\nThis school was, thus, the preceding trigger of the idea that law comes from a dogmatic source, imposition from man over man and not a \"natural\" consequence of other sciences or of metaphysical faith.\n\nAmong the main characters of the \"jurisprudence of concepts\" are:\n\nSo, according to this school, law should have prevailing sources based upon the legislative process, although needing to be proven by more inclusive ideas of a social sense.\n\n"}
{"id": "18424688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18424688", "title": "Language of adoption", "text": "Language of adoption\n\nThe language of adoption is changing and evolving, and since the 1970s has been a controversial issue tied closely to adoption reform efforts. The controversy arises over the use of terms which, while designed to be more appealing or less offensive to some persons affected by adoption, may simultaneously cause offense or insult to others. This controversy illustrates the problems in adoption, as well as the fact that coining new words and phrases to describe ancient social practices will not necessarily alter the feelings and experiences of those affected by them. Two of the contrasting sets of terms are commonly referred to as positive adoption language (PAL) (sometimes referred to \"respectful adoption language (RAL)\"), and honest adoption language (HAL).\n\nIn the 1970s, as adoption search and support organizations developed, there were challenges to the language in common use at the time. The term \"natural mother\" had been in common use previously. The term \"birth mother\" was first used in 1956 by Nobel Prize winning author and adoptive mother Pearl S. Buck. As books like \"Adoption Triangle\" by Sorosky, Pannor and Baran were published, and support groups formed like CUB (Concerned United Birthparents), a major shift from natural parent to birthparent occurred. Along with the change in times and social attitudes came additional examination of the language used in adoption.\n\nSocial workers and other professionals in the field of adoption began changing terms of use to reflect what was being expressed by the parties involved. In 1979, Marietta Spencer wrote \"The Terminology of Adoption\" for the Child Welfare League of America (CWLA), which was the basis for her later work \"Constructive Adoption Terminology\". This influenced Pat Johnston's \"positive adoption language\" (PAL) and \"respectful adoption language\" (RAL). The terms contained in \"positive adoption language\" include the terms \"birth mother\" (to replace the terms \"natural mother\" and \"real mother\"), \"placing\" (to replace the term \"surrender\").\n\nLanguage, at its best, honors the self-referencing choices of the persons involved, utilizes inclusive terms and phrases, and is sensitive to the feelings of the primary parties. Language evolves with social attitudes and experiences. The example below is one of the earliest and it should be noted that these lists, too, have evolved and changed some over the years.\n\n\"The reasons for its use\": Some terms like birth parents, birth mother, birth father were chosen by those working in adoption reform as terms to replace 'natural' and it took nearly a decade before agencies, social workers, courts and laws embraced the change in self-referencing. Some adoptive parents supported this change as they felt using \"natural\" indicated they were \"unnatural\". In some cultures, adoptive families face an anti-adoption bias. This can be evident in English-speaking cultures when there is prominent use of negative or inaccurate language describing adoption. So, to combat it, many adoptive families choose the use of positive adoption language.\n\n\"The reasons against its use\": Some adoptees believe \"positive adoption language\" creates cognitive dissonance, denies certain realities for the adoptee, & treats the status of being an adopted person as if it is something to be ashamed of by insisting adoption should not be part of their identity. Some birth parents see \"positive adoption language\" as terminology which glosses over painful facts they face as they go into the indefinite post-adoption period of their lives. They feel PAL has become a way to present adoption in the friendliest light possible, in order to obtain even more infants for adoption; i.e., a sales and marketing tool. Some feel the social work system has negatively compromised the intention of the birth family references and other terms, so that either the initial intent needs to be honored, or the terminology must again change.\n\n\"Honest adoption language\" refers to a set of terms that reflect the point of view that: (1) family relationships (social, emotional, psychological or physical) that existed prior to the legal adoption continue, and that (2) mothers who have \"voluntarily surrendered\" children to adoption (as opposed to involuntary terminations through court-authorized child-welfare proceedings) seldom view it as a choice that was freely made, but instead describe scenarios of powerlessness, lack of resources, and overall lack of choice. It also reflects the point of view that the term \"birth mother\" is derogatory in implying that the woman has ceased being a mother after the physical act of giving birth. Proponents of HAL liken this to the mother being treated as a \"breeder\" or \"incubator\". Terms included in HAL include the original terms that were used before PAL, including \"natural mother\", \"Mother\" and \"surrendered for adoption\", \"own child\" rather than \"birth child\" etc. The organization Origins Canada has been a pioneer in promoting honest adoption language \n\n\"The reasons for its use\": In most cultures, the adoption of a child does not change the identities of its mother and father: they continue to be referred to as such. Those who adopted a child were thereafter termed its \"guardians,\" \"foster,\" or \"adoptive\" parents. Some people choose to use \"honest adoption language\" (HAL) because it reflects the original terminology. Some of those directly affected by adoption separation believe these terms more accurately reflect important but hidden and/or ignored realities of adoption. They feel this language also reflects continuing connection and does not exclude further contact.\n\n\"The reasons against its use\": The term \"honest\" implies that all other language used in adoption is dishonest. HAL does not honor the historical aspects of the early adoption reform movement who requested and worked years to have terminology changed from natural to birth. Some adoptive parents feel disrespected by language like 'natural parent' because it can indicate they are unnatural.\n\nThere are supporters of various lists, developed over many decades, and there are persons who find them lacking, created to support an agenda, or furthering division. All terminology can be used to demean or diminish, uplift or embrace. In addressing the linguistic problem of naming, Edna Andrews says that using \"inclusive\" and \"neutral\" language is based upon the concept that \"language represents thought, and may even control thought.\"\n\nAdvocates of inclusive language defend it as inoffensive-language usage whose goal is multi-fold:\n\n\nA common problem is that terms chosen by an identity group, as acceptable descriptors of themselves, can be then used in negative ways by detractors. This compromises the integrity of the language and turns what was intended to be positive into negative or vice versa, thus often devaluing acceptability, meaning and use.\n\nIn this evolving debate about which terms are acceptable in any era, there can be disagreements within the group itself. To be inclusive requires that no group ascribes to others what they must call themselves. Words and phrases must reflect mutual respect and honor the individual choice.\n\nInclusive adoption language is far more than an aesthetic matter of identity imagery that one embraces or rejects; it can focus the fundamental issues and ideals of social justice. Language that is truly inclusive affirms the humanity of all the people involved, and shows respect for difference. Words have the power to communicate hospitality or hostility, to exploit and exclude, as well as affirm and liberate. Inclusive language honors that each individual has a right to determine for themselves what self-referencing term is comfortable and best reflects their personal identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "11493826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11493826", "title": "Ledbetter v. Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber Co.", "text": "Ledbetter v. Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber Co.\n\nLedbetter v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., 550 U.S. 618 (2007), is an employment discrimination decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. Employers cannot be sued under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 over race or gender pay discrimination if the claims are based on decisions made by the employer 180 days ago or more. Justice Alito held for the five-justice majority that each paycheck received did not constitute a discrete discriminatory act, even if affected by a prior decision outside the time limit. Ledbetter's claim of the “paycheck accrual rule” was rejected. The decision did not prevent plaintiffs from suing under other laws, like the Equal Pay Act, which has a three-year deadline for most sex discrimination claims, or 42 U.S.C. 1981, which has a four-year deadline for suing over race discrimination.\n\nThis was a case of statutory rather than constitutional interpretation, explaining the meaning of a law, not its constitutionality. The plaintiff in this case, Lilly Ledbetter, characterized her situation as one where \"disparate pay is received during the statutory limitations period, but is the result of intentionally discriminatory pay decisions that occurred outside the limitations period.\" In rejecting Ledbetter's appeal, the Supreme Court said that \"she could have, and should have, sued\" when the pay decisions were made, instead of waiting beyond the 180-day statutory charging period. The Court did leave open the possibility that a plaintiff could sue beyond the 180-day period if she did not, and could not, have discovered the discrimination earlier. The effect of the Court's holding was reversed by the passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act in 2009.\n\nIn 1979 Lilly Ledbetter, the plaintiff, began work at the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company in its Gadsden, Alabama location, a union plant. She started with the same pay as male employees, but by retirement, she was earning $3,727 per month compared to 15 men who earned from $4,286 per month (lowest paid man) to $5,236 per month (highest paid man). During her years at the factory as a salaried worker, raises were given and denied based partly on evaluations and recommendations regarding worker performance. From 1979-1981 Ledbetter received a series of negative evaluations, which she later claimed were discriminatory. Although her subsequent evaluations were good, in part as a result of those early negative evaluations, her pay never reached the level of similar male employees. All merit increases had to be substantiated by a formal evaluation. In March 1998, Ledbetter inquired into the possible sexual discrimination of the Goodyear Tire Company. In July she filed formal charges with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. In November 1998, after early retirement, Ledbetter sued claiming pay discrimination under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Equal Pay Act of 1963. The Supreme Court did not rule on whether this was discrimination, just the statute of limitations to sue.\n\n\nThe District Court found in favor of Goodyear on the Equal Pay Act claim, because that Act allows pay differences that are based on merit. The court allowed the Title VII and other claims to proceed to trial. Ledbetter claimed that she had been evaluated unfairly because of her sex and therefore had been paid significantly less than her male colleagues. Goodyear claimed that their evaluations were non-discriminatory and focused only on worker competence. The jury found for Ledbetter and awarded back pay and damages. Goodyear appealed, arguing that all claims to damages before September 26, 1997 were void due to the statute of limitations placed on discrimination claims.\n\nThe United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit reversed the lower court's decision stating that Ledbetter could sue only for allegations regarding pay decisions that occurred less than 180 days before her beginning the EEOC process in March 1998. Ledbetter, as the court ruled, could not sue on decisions that merely affected pay in the 180 day period. Furthermore, all decisions made concerning pay in the 180 day period could not be unequivocally linked to her gender. Ledbetter sought a writ of certiorari, but did not contest the sufficiency of the evidence concerning decisions in the 180 day period. The Supreme Court granted the writ and heard the appeal.\n\nIn \"United Airlines v. Evans\", Justice Stevens wrote as follows for the Court: \"A discriminatory act which is not made the basis for a timely charge...is merely an unfortunate event in history which has no present legal consequences.\" The Court in \"Ledbetter\" said that \"it would be difficult to speak to the point more directly.\"\n\nJustice Alito delivered the opinion of the court. The Court held that according to Title VII, discriminatory intent must occur during the 180-day charging period. Ledbetter did not claim that Goodyear acted with discriminatory intent in the charging period by issuing the checks, nor by denying her a raise in 1998. She argued that the discriminatory behavior occurred long before but still affected her during the 180-day charging period. Prior caselaw, the Court held, established that the actual intentional discrimination must occur within the charging period. The Court also stated that according to those prior cases, Ledbetter’s claim that each check is an act of discrimination is inconsistent with the statute, because there was no evidence of discriminatory intent in the issuing of the checks. Alito was joined in his opinion by Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy and Clarence Thomas and Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.\n\nJustice Ginsburg wrote the dissent and read it from the bench, a rare practice. Joined by Justices Stevens, Souter, and Breyer, she argued against applying the 180-day limit to pay discrimination, because discrimination often occurs in small increments over large periods of time. Furthermore, the pay information of fellow workers is typically confidential and unavailable for comparison. Ginsburg argued that pay discrimination is inherently different from adverse actions, such as termination. Adverse actions are obvious, but small pay discrepancy is often difficult to recognize until more than 180 days of the pay change. Ginsburg argued that the broad remedial purpose of the statute was incompatible with the Court's \"cramped\" interpretation. Her dissent asserted that the employer had been, \"Knowingly carrying past pay discrimination forward\" during the 180-day charging period, and therefore could be held liable.\n\nIn 2007, several Democratic members of Congress introduced the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which revised the law to state that if a present act of discrimination pertains, prior acts outside of the 180-day statute of limitations for pay discrimination can be incorporated into the claim.\n\nThe bill was an issue in the 2008 Presidential election campaign, with Barack Obama supporting the bill, and John McCain opposed to it. The plaintiff in the case, Lilly Ledbetter, appeared in campaign ads for the Obama campaign and had a speaking role at the Democratic National Convention.\n\nIn January 2009, Congress passed and President Obama signed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act into law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5362810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5362810", "title": "Legal humanists", "text": "Legal humanists\n\nThe legal humanists were a group of scholars of Roman law, which arose in Italy during the Renaissance with the works of Lorenzo Valla and Andrea Alciato as a reaction against the Commentators. In the 16th century, the movement reached France (Bourges, where Alciato taught), where it became very influential. They had a general disdain for the Middle Ages and felt nothing good could come from then. They also had a great love of antiquarianism and were greatly concerned with the authority and accuracy of the Corpus Iuris Civilis. Thus, they described the work of the glossators and commentators as a malignant cancer on the text. They particularly disliked the commentators because in their attempt to apply law in practice, they had moved further and further away from the texts.\n\nThis was the time of the Renaissance in Europe, where people sought a new birth of society. They believed this would come through a return to the eternal principles underlying classical society. The religious reformers sought a return to the pure Word. In law, the humanists were a parallel movement, seeking a return to classical Roman law. This involved purifying the texts. The humanists had great confidence in the mind and so originally this was done through a conjectural knowledge of antiquity. However, Cujaccius recognized the importance of studying the best and most original text, and thus used the Florentine manuscript. This enabled a better study of the interpolations of the text. However, as more and more interpolations were revealed, the quasi-Biblical status of the texts was undermined, which undermined the work of the humanists.\n\nSince the humanists were primarily concerned with a return to classical society, they were not solely interested in the law, but instead in the historical context. Some humanists placed little emphasis on the law except in respect to what it revealed about the Roman society, for example, Alicus. Pure law was thus given a monumental status. However, this resulted in a move away from practical application of the text. It was recognized that Roman law was the product of Roman society. This undermined the humanist movement as at the same time as arguing that Roman law was perfect for today’s society, they revealed it was a product of Roman society. The logical conclusion of this was that French law should be a product of French society. The humanists, for example, Donellus, presumed that Roman law was rational and so tried to find an underlying rational structure. They distinguished sharply between questions of procedure (the means of obtaining an answer) and questions of substantive law (what is due).\n\nThe humanists had little impact on the immediate practice of law. Court advocates and notaries remained faithful to the commentaries because the work of the commentators had been better circulated. Since they already knew the works of the commentators, they had a vested interest in ensuring that they remained the basis of the court system. Consequently, there were fierce rebuttals, such as that of Scipione Gentili. Humanism was largely irrelevant since it was based around the discovery of pure Roman law, and pure Roman law was only appropriate for Roman society.\n\nIn the long term, however, humanism did significantly influence legal science. The principle of using the best available text was established and the quasi-biblical authority of the texts was undermined, resulting in the rise of legal science. The systematisation of the texts was both aided and encouraged, giving rise to the Pandectist school. The logical skills of the humanists in their search for interpolations meant that lawyers had skills that were useful for society as a whole. They were thus the natural mediator in Italy when there was no emperor (and they had Imperial authority), they created a comprehensive system of law. When in French the church and crown were opposed, the humanists were able to help the king gain control with their use of logic.\n\nA disputed impact of the humanists was on the law of contract. The Gordley thesis does not consider their work at all, and opponents to this thesis have argued that they were crucial to the development of modern contract law. The humanists and commentators had reached the point where they acknowledged a large number of ways that agreement could be “clothed” in order to give rise to legal action, however, they still maintained that these were exceptions to the general rule that an agreement could not give rise to an action on its own. However, it was only a small step from this to the recognition that generally an agreement would give an action, but there were a few exceptions. That the transition was not made by the commentators is thought to be because of their adherence to the texts. This was undermined by the humanists. Thus, we might expect that the humanists would have brought the change that Gordley credits to the Spanish NeoScholastics. However, there is no evidence that this took place, perhaps because the humanists despised the work of the commentators to such an extent that they were unwilling to effectively build on the foundations laid down by the commentators in this area.\n\nMost of the humanists were Protestants and so died or fled after the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre of Protestants in 1573. However, the direct link that Donellus fled to Leiden (via Germany) and started the Dutch Elegant School, has been questioned by Osler, who points out that the French Humanist school continued after the massacre and that the Dutch Elegant School did not really take off until Noodt at the end of the 17th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "54737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54737", "title": "Letter of marque", "text": "Letter of marque\n\nA letter of marque and reprisal () was a government license in the Age of Sail that authorized a private person, known as a privateer or corsair, to attack and capture vessels of a nation at war with the issuer. Once captured, the privateer could then bring the case of that prize before their own admiralty court for condemnation and transfer of ownership to the privateer. A letter of marque and reprisal would include permission to cross an international border to effect a reprisal (take some action against an attack or injury) and was authorized by an issuing jurisdiction to conduct reprisal operations outside its borders.\n\nPopular among Europeans from the late Middle Ages up to the 19th century, cruising for enemy prizes with a letter of marque was considered an honorable calling that combined patriotism and profit. Such privateering contrasted with attacks and captures of random ships, which was unlicensed and known as piracy; piracy was almost universally reviled. In reality, the differences between privateers and pirates were often at best subtle, and at worst more a matter of interpretation.\n\nIn addition to the meaning of the license itself, the terms letter of marque and privateer were sometimes used to describe the vessels used to pursue and capture prizes. In this context, a letter of marque was a lumbering, square-rigged cargo carrier that might pick up a prize if the opportunity arose in its normal course of duties. In contrast, the term privateer generally referred to a fast and weatherly fore-and-aft rigged vessel, heavily armed and heavily crewed, intended exclusively for fighting.\n\nMarque derives from the Old English \"mearc\", which is from the Germanic *\"mark-\", which means boundary, or boundary marker, which is derived from the Proto-Indo-European root \"*merǵ-\", meaning boundary, or border. The French \"marque\" is from the Provençal language \"marca\", which is from \"marcar\", also Provençal, meaning, seize as a pledge.\n\nAccording to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", the first recorded use of \"letters of marque and reprisal\" was in an English statute in 1354 during the reign of Edward III. The phrase referred to \"a licen[c]e granted by a sovereign to a subject, authorizing him to make reprisals on the subjects of a hostile state for injuries alleged to have been done to him by the enemy's army.\"\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, armed private vessels enjoying their sovereign's tacit consent, if not always an explicit formal commission, regularly raided shipping of other nations, as in the case of Francis Drake's attacks on Spanish shipping, of which Elizabeth I (despite protestations of innocence) took a share. Grotius's 1604 seminal work on international law, \"De Iure Praedae\" (\"Of The Law of Prize and Booty\"), was an advocate's brief defending Dutch raids on Spanish and Portuguese shipping.\n\nKing Henry III of England first issued what later became known as privateering commissions in 1243. These early licences were granted to specific individuals to seize the king’s enemies at sea in return for splitting the proceeds between the privateers and The Crown.\n\nThe letter of marque and reprisal first arose in 1295, 50 years after wartime privateer licenses were first issued. According to Grotius, letters of marque and reprisal were akin to a \"private war\", a concept alien to modern sensibilities but related to an age when the ocean was lawless and all merchant vessels sailed armed for self-defense. A reprisal involved seeking the sovereign's permission to exact private retribution against some foreign prince or subject. The earliest instance of a licensed reprisal recorded in England was in the year 1295 under the reign of Edward I. The notion of reprisal, and behind it that just war involved avenging a wrong, clung to the letter of marque until 1620 in England, in that to apply for one a shipowner had to submit to the Admiralty Court an estimate of actual losses.\n\nLicensing privateers during wartime became widespread in Europe by the 16th Century, when most countries began to enact laws regulating the granting of letters of marque and reprisal. Business could be very profitable; during the eight years of the American Revolutionary War ships from the tiny island of Guernsey carrying letter of marque captured French and American vessels to the value of £900,000 and continued to operate during the Napoleonic Wars. (Of course, profitable cruises paid for unprofitable ones, including cruises in which the enemy captured the privateer before it had captured anything.)\n\nAlthough privateering commissions and letters of marque were originally distinct legal concepts, such distinctions became purely technical by the eighteenth century. The United States Constitution, for instance, states that \"The Congress shall have Power To ... grant Letters of marque and reprisal ...\", without separately addressing privateer commissions.\n\nDuring the American War of Independence, Napoleonic Wars, and the War of 1812, it was common to distinguish verbally between privateers (also known as private ships of war) on the one hand, and armed merchantmen, which were referred to as \"letters of marque\", on the other, though both received the same commission. The \"Sir John Sherbrooke\" (Halifax) was a privateer; the \"Sir John Sherbrooke\" (Saint John) was an armed merchantman. The East India Company arranged for letters of marque for its East Indiamen such as the \"Lord Nelson\", not so that they could carry cannons to fend off warships, privateers, and pirates on their voyages to India and China—that they could do without permission—but so that, should they have the opportunity to take a prize, they could do so without being guilty of piracy. Similarly, the \"Earl of Mornington\", an East India Company packet ship of only six guns, too carried a letter of marque.\n\nIn July 1793, the East Indiamen , \"Triton\", and \"Warley\" participated in the capture of Pondichéry by maintaining a blockade of the port. Afterwards, as they were on their way to China, the same three East Indiamen participated in an action in the Straits of Malacca. They came upon a French frigate, with some six or seven British prizes, replenishing her water casks ashore. The three British vessels immediately gave chase. The frigate fled towards the Sunda Strait. The Indiamen were able to catch up with a number of the prizes, and, after a few cannon shots, were able to retake them. Had they not carried letters of marque, such behaviour might well have qualified as piracy. Similarly, on 10 November 1800 the East Indiaman \"Phoenix\" captured the French privateer \"General Malartic\", under Jean-Marie Dutertre, an action made legal by a letter of marque. Additionally, vessels with a letter of marque were exempt from having to sail in convoy, and nominally their crew members were exempt, during a voyage, from impressment.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic Wars there were also two cases (\"Dart\" and \"Kitty\"), where British privateers spent some months off the coast of Sierra Leone hunting slave-trading vessels.\n\nThe procedure for issuing letters of marque and the issuing authority varied by time and circumstance. In colonial America, for instance, colonial governors issued them in the name of the king. During the American War of Independence, first the state legislatures, then both the states and the Continental Congress, then, after ratification of the Constitution, Congress authorized and the President signed letters of marque. A shipowner would send in an application stating the name, description, tonnage, and force (armaments) of the vessel, the name and residence of the owner, and the intended number of crew, and tendered a bond promising strict observance of the country's laws and treaties and of international laws and customs. The commission was granted to the vessel, not to its captain, often for a limited time or specified area, and stated the enemy upon whom attacks were permitted. For instance, during the Second Barbary War President James Madison authorized the Salem, Mass., brig \"Grand Turk\" to cruise against \"Algerine vessels, public or private, goods and effects, of or belonging to the Dey of Algiers\". (This particular commission was never put to use, as it was issued the same day the treaty was signed ending the U.S. involvement in the war—July 3, 1815.)\n\nIn England in the 18th century, a Letter of Marque was issued by the High Court of Admiralty of England. It was normal for the proposed privateer to pay a deposit or bond, possibly £1,500 (current value £150,000) as surety for good behaviour. The details of the ship, including tonnage, crew and weapons were recorded. The ownership of these ships was often split into ⅛ shares. Prizes were assessed and valued with profits split in pre agreed proportions between the government, the owners and the captain and crew.\n\nA letter of marque and reprisal in effect converted a private merchant vessel into a naval auxiliary. A commissioned privateer enjoyed the protection and was subject to the obligations of the laws of war. If captured, the crew was entitled to honorable treatment as prisoners of war, while without the licence they were deemed mere pirates \"at war with all the world,\" criminals who were properly hanged.\n\nFor this reason, enterprising maritime raiders commonly took advantage of \"flag of convenience\" letters of marque, shopping for cooperative governments to license and legitimize their depredations. French/Irishman Captain Luke Ryan and his lieutenants in just over two years commanded six vessels under the flags of three different nations and on opposite sides in the same war. Likewise the notorious Lafitte brothers in New Orleans cruised under letters of marque secured by bribery from corrupt officials of tenuous Central American governments, to cloak plunder with a thin veil of legality.\n\nThe letter of marque by its terms required privateers to bring captured vessels and their cargoes before admiralty courts of their own or allied countries for condemnation. Applying the rules and customs of prize law, the courts decided whether the letter of marque was valid and current, and whether the captured vessel or its cargo in fact belonged to the enemy (not always easy, when flying false flags was common practice), and if so the prize and its cargo were \"condemned\", to be sold at auction with the proceeds divided among the privateer's owner and crew. A prize court's formal condemnation was required to transfer title; otherwise the vessel's previous owners might well reclaim her on her next voyage, and seek damages for the confiscated cargo.\n\nOften questions arose as to the legitimacy of the letter of marque in the case of divided sovereignty during civil wars. An English court, for instance, refused to recognize the letters of marque issued by rebellious Ireland under James II, and hanged eight privateer captains as pirates. Seventy-nine years later during the American Civil War, the Union charged officers and crew of the Confederate privateer \"Savannah\" with piracy, calling their letter of marque invalid since the Union refused to acknowledge the breakaway Confederacy as a sovereign nation. The case resulted in a hung jury, and after Confederate President Jefferson Davis threatened to retaliate by hanging one Union officer for each executed Confederate privateer, the Union relented and thereafter treated Confederate privateersmen honorably as prisoners of war.\n\nPrivateers were also required by the terms of their letters of marque to obey the laws of war, honour treaty obligations (avoid attacking neutrals), and in particular to treat captives as courteously and kindly as they safely could. If they failed to live up to their obligations, the Admiralty courts could — and did — revoke the letter of marque, refuse to award prize money, forfeit bonds, or even award tort (personal injury) damages against the privateer's officers and crew.\n\nNations often agreed by treaty to forgo privateering, as England and France repeatedly did starting with the diplomatic overtures of Edward III in 1324; privateering nonetheless recurred in every war between them for the next 500 years.\n\nBenjamin Franklin had attempted to persuade the French to lead by example and stop issuing letters of marque to their corsairs, but the effort foundered when war loomed with Britain once again. The French Convention did forbid the practice, but it was reinstated after the Thermidorian Reaction, in August 1795; on 26 September 1797, the Ministry of the Navy was authorized to sell small ships to private parties for this purpose.\n\nFinally, after the Congress of Paris at the end of the Crimean War, seven European nations signed the Paris Declaration of 1856 renouncing privateering, and forty-five more eventually joined them, which in effect abolished privateering worldwide. The United States was not a signatory to that declaration. Despite the attempt to end privateering around the world, nations continued issuing letters of marque. In 1879 at the beginning of the War of the Pacific, Bolivia issued letters of marque to any vessels willing to fight for them. At the time Bolivia was under threat from Chile's fleet but had no navy.\n\nIn December 1941 and the first months of 1942, Goodyear commercial L class blimp \"Resolute\" operating out of Moffett Field in Sunnyvale, California, flew anti-submarine patrols. As the civilian crew was armed with a rifle, many thought this made the ship a privateer, and that she and sister commercial blimps were operated under letter of marque until the Navy took over operation. Without congressional authorization, the Navy would not have been able to legally issue any letters of marque.\n\nArticle 1 of the United States Constitution lists issuing letters of marque and reprisal in Section 8 as one of the enumerated powers of Congress, alongside the power to tax and to declare War. However, since the American Civil War, the United States as a matter of policy has consistently followed the terms of the 1856 Paris Declaration forbidding the practice. The United States has not legally commissioned any privateers since 1815, although the status of submarine-hunting Goodyear airships in the early days of World War II created significant confusion. Various accounts refer to airships \"Resolute\" and \"Volunteer\" as operating under a \"privateer status\", but Congress never authorized a commission, nor did the President sign one.\n\nThe issue of marque and reprisal was raised before Congress after the September 11 attacks and again on July 21, 2007, by Congressman Ron Paul. The attacks were defined as acts of \"air piracy\" and the \"Marque and Reprisal Act of 2001\" was introduced, which would have granted the president the authority to use letters of marque and reprisal against the specific terrorists, instead of warring against a foreign state. The terrorists were compared to pirates in that they are difficult to fight by traditional military means. On April 15, 2009, Paul also advocated the use of letters of marque to address the issue of Somali pirates operating in the Gulf of Aden. However, the bills Paul introduced were not enacted into law.\n\n"}
{"id": "34803295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34803295", "title": "Literal contracts in Roman law", "text": "Literal contracts in Roman law\n\nLiteral contracts (\"contractus litteris\") formed part of the Roman law of contracts. Of uncertain origin, in terms of time and any historical development, they are often seen as subsidiary in the Roman law to other forms. They had developed by at the latest 100 BC, and continued into the late Roman Empire.\n\nThe form itself was a written entry in some form of account book, which Gaius describes as either replacing an existing obligation from another source, or transferring a debt from one person to another. At least the second form was unavailable to peregrines. It seems to have been limited to certain sums which were unconditional and which had the consent of the debtor. Its later development was shaped by changes in the oral contract, the \"stipulatio\".\n\nThe origin of the literal contract in uncertain. It is only towards the end of the second century BC that the evidence is suitably lucid for its existence. The ability to discern a distinction between financial accounts in general and a literal contract plagues early sources. Many, for example, describe the recording of receipts rather than disbursements. Gaius, writing later, considers the disbursement the central element, and so this throws doubt on the efficacy of the earlier sources to establish the presence of a literal contract. Dragomir Stojčević notes the presence of the terms \"af\" and \"abs\" in the early texts of Velius Longus, drawing on the later works of Cicero to demonstrate that they were only used in conjunction with literal accounts. However, the distinction between general accounts and a literal contract cannot be shown to any certainty, and the texts are still concerned only with the recording of receipts. Cicero's account of a knight called C. Canius, known to have been active in 115 BC, does at least provide significant (and accepted) evidence of them literal contract's existence at this time.\n\nAlan Watson identifies the main areas of uncertainty, which, if showed one way or the other, would elucidate the dating problem. Of Gaius' two forms, which was the original form would also give an indication of the historical development. If the \"a re in personam\" form came first, then it must surely have come after the creation of \"bonae fidei\" contract forms, since the transfer of a \"stipulatio\" of \"mutuum\" form into a literal contract would have otherwise given no real benefit. It might have done if the literal contract was used to consolidate several different debts between two parties, to simplify them into a single action, but none of the texts point to this: they refer to a singular preceding obligation. If the \"a personam in personam\" form came first, then the development could have come much earlier. The consent of the debtor was probably required: this is stated as fact by some modern lawyers, although Watson points to the alternative explanation of Stojčević. Under the normal explanation, the tablets of Herculaneum show that something other than the written contract itself was required, necessarily debtor's consent. Exactly how the record shows the debtor's consent is uncertain, however.\n\nThe details of literal contracts are taken from a brief account in Gaius' \"Institutes\", a considerably different account by Theophilus, brief references in other legal texts and mere allusions in texts by non-legal authors. How exactly an early literal contract differed from \"mutuum\" itself is not certain. The literal contract was formal: any claim would be based on the written form and not any facts which had led to its creation.\n\nThe literal contract was, according to Gaius, a \"nomina transcripta\", and capable of functioning in two ways. The first is \"a re in personam\" (\"from thing to person\"), and transformed a debt resulting from another contractual arrangement (sale, hire, for example). A fictitious loan would then be constructed from the creditor to the debtor, thereby charging the debtor with fulfilling that obligation whilst discharging the other. The alternative was in transferring a debt from person to another: \"a personam in personam\". The debt would be entered under the name of the person to whom it was being transferred. Gaius' account indicates that it was a previous obligation was required in the classical law, and Watson believes this can be conclusively shown for the last century of the Republic. However, it is possible that that was not the case originally. Appert was argued that the literal contract was created as an enforcement method for consensual contracts, before they became actionable in their own right.\n\nIt must always for a certain, set monetary sum. It is recording as having always to be unconditional, although Cicero appears to mention a conditional case. It is possible that the parties waited for the eventuality to occur before making a record of the literal contract at all. As mentioned above, it seems that the debtor was required to consent. Whilst a debtor would be expected to make an entry in his own accounts, this does not seem to have affected the validity of the literal contract. It was \"stricti iuris\", and enforceable under the \"actio certae pecuniae creditae\". The respondent could claim under the \"exceptio non numeratae pecuniae\" that the loan had never been made. However, this would normally be true, for the loan was normally a fictitious construct. Accordingly, the exception probably related to the non-existence of the prior agreement or debt.\n\nThe accepted approach in terms of physical form is an entry into the household's \"codex accepti and depensi\" – which would have to be balanced with a second fictitious entry. In the case of the \"a rem\" form, it would be a receipt of the amount owed on the account of the previous transaction; \"a personam\", it would be an entry showing the receipt from the debtor from whom the debt was being transferred. If the literal contract was indeed limited to entries in \"tabulae\" (\"account books\"), then it must necessarily post-date their existence (and some measure of use), thus pointing to a later date than might be supposed if the literal contract extended to other forms of written words. The latter is favoured by Stojčević.\n\nThe Sabinian school believed that neither form could be conducted by peregrines, the Sabinians that they could use the \"a re\" form, but not the \"a personam\" could. Before the classical age is unclear, as is the basis for making such a distinction. It is possible that like the \"spondeo\" form of verbal contract, it was derived mostly from tradition: that is considered entirely peculiar to Romans. This would suggest that it was much older. The alternative is that the completion of orderly account books were assumed to be restricted to Romans, and not something that a peregrine would or could do.\n\nThe literal contract disappeared late into the classical age, sustained by its use in the banking trade. In Justinian's law, it had been replaced by the written form of the \"stipulatio\", and by a form of conclusive evidence for another sort of loan (\"mutuum\" or \"commodatum\") where the holder lost his \"exceptio\" that the loan had not taken place after a period of time. Authors such as W. W. Buckland and Barry Nicholas believe Justinian's claim that this was a new form of literal contracts to be badly mistaken, the latter suggesting it was created mainly to bring the number of types up to four, the preferred number of divisions. Accordingly, no mention is made in the Digest to the original form. Gaius refers to two types of document: the chirograph, made by a debtor only, and a syngraph made by both parties. He identifies them with the peregrine's law only; after the extension of citizenship to the majority of the free peoples of the Empire by Caracalla, they continued to be used, but only in an evidentiary role.\n\n"}
{"id": "4183132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4183132", "title": "Massachusetts Teachers' Oath", "text": "Massachusetts Teachers' Oath\n\nThe Massachusetts Teachers' Oath was a loyalty oath required to teach in Massachusetts from 1935 to 1967.\n\nIn response to political radicalism during the Great Depression, several states passed legislation that required public school teachers to submit signed oaths of loyalty to the state and/or federal Constitutions. This movement, supported by the national American Legion and other organizations, gained strength in Massachusetts in 1934 and 1935.\n\nIn 1935, after stormy hearings before the General Court's Joint Education Committee at which Harvard President James B. Conant, historian Samuel Eliot Morison, and the presidents of several colleges and universities spoke against the legislation, the Republican-dominated House and Senate enacted teachers' oath legislation. The oath bill was introduced by Democratic state Representative Thomas Dorgan. Dorgan became known as the \"Father of the Teachers' Oath,\" and resisted all efforts at repeal, both in and out of office.\n\nThe Massachusetts legislation was unique in that it applied to private educational institutions as well as public. It prompted the resignations of two Tufts University professors, Earle Winslow and Alfred C. Lane in December 1935. Lane moved to Florida, but Winslow decided to run for the Democratic Party's nomination for the 9th Congressional District in 1936. In the September primary, he came in 5th out of six candidates, earning only 1,452 votes out of 27,948 cast. Thomas Dorgan lost in his bid for the nomination for Suffolk County Court Clerk. He secured a position with the state Department of Taxation, and in 1939 Democratic Mayor Maurice Tobin appointed him \"legislative agent\" for the City of Boston.\n\nHarvard Geology Professor Kirtley Mather took a strong stand against the oath, but under pressure from President Conant he submitted a signed oath form in December 1935. The Quaker Harvard Professor of Religion, Henry Cadbury, rejected the teacher's oath in the 1930s, for reasons of conscience, telling the truth, and as a form of social activism. He turned down the Hollis Professorship in Divinity at Harvard. \n\nThe controversy also cost the long-serving state Commissioner of Education Payson Smith his job. Smith had spoken out against the legislation during the hearings, but nevertheless strictly enforced the law despite a compromise worked out with leading educators and the Attorney General, Paul Dever. Despite this, Democratic Governor James Michael Curley wanted Smith out. Smith's term expired on December 1, 1935, and he continued to serve as Acting Commissioner while he awaited his fate. The media and educational leaders pressured Curley to re-appoint Smith, so Curley met with the Democrats on the Governor's Council in closed session shortly before they were to vote on the issue. When the Council met, Curley submitted Smith's name and it was promptly rejected. Curley then nominated Adams, Massachusetts school superintendent James G. Reardon, and the Council voted to approve him. Reardon, a graduate of Boston College, had spoken out in favor of the oath law. \n\nIn 1936, several well-respected educators, including Morison and Mather, joined together to form the Massachusetts Society for Freedom in Teaching (MSFT) to coordinate efforts to repeal the oath legislation. This organization worked closely with educational leaders like Conant and President Daniel Marsh of Boston University to lobby for repeal. As a result of the November elections, sixty representatives who supported the oath were not returned to the House, and oath opponents hoped that this change could lead to repeal.\n\nThe Republican House and Senate did pass repeal legislation in March 1937, but the vote in both chambers proved very close: 21–19 in the Senate, and 120–112 in the House. Democratic Governor Charles Francis Hurley vetoed the legislation, claiming that it was an important part of the fight against radicals and Communists. Opponents of the oath in the House were unable to muster the two-thirds majority required to override Hurley's veto, which was sustained by a vote of 101–100.\n\nAlthough newly elected Republican Governor Leverett Saltonstall indicated that he would sign a repeal bill in early 1939, it failed to pass the state legislature.\n\nThe teachers' oath legislation remained in force until invalidated by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court in 1967 in its ruling on \"Pedlosky v. Massachusetts Institute of Technology\". The Massachusetts General Court passed legislation to repeal all loyalty oaths in 1986, which was signed by Governor Michael Dukakis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4247815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4247815", "title": "Medical Examination of Young Persons (Industry) Convention, 1946", "text": "Medical Examination of Young Persons (Industry) Convention, 1946\n\nMedical Examination of Young Persons (Industry) Convention, 1946 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1946 with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to medical examination for fitness for employment in industry of children and young persons...\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 43 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "10162554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10162554", "title": "Modern Law Review", "text": "Modern Law Review\n\nThe Modern Law Review is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by John Wiley & Sons on behalf of Modern Law Review Ltd. and which has traditionally maintained close academic ties with the Law Department of the London School of Economics. The \"Modern Law Review\" has been identified as the \"pre-eminent United Kingdom law journal\" in a ranking based on statistical data from the 2001 Research Assessment Exercise.\n\nThe journal is a general law review that publishes original articles relating to common law jurisdictions and the law of the European Union. In addition, the journal contains sections devoted to recent legislation and reports, to case analysis, to review articles, and to book reviews. The current editor-in-chief is Julia Black (London School of Economics). Previous editors included Lord Chorley, Lord Wedderburn, and Hugh Collins.\n\nThe contents of the first 59 volumes (published between 1937 and 1996) are freely available online; more recent volumes are available on a subscription basis.\n\nThe Modern Law Review Ltd. is a charity that was established in 1937 to promote the study of law and related fields. To this end, it publishes the law review and organises lectures and seminars and offers scholarships and awards. In addition, the review provides the funding to host the annual Chorley Lecture.\n\nThe annual Chorley Lectures started in 1972 and are named in honour of Robert Chorley, 1st Baron Chorley, the founding editor of the \"Modern Law Review\". The lecture is usually delivered in early June at the London School of Economics and subsequently published as the lead article in the January issue of the following year's volume.\n\nThe annual Wedderburn Prize is awarded for \"a contribution to that year's volume which in the opinion of the editorial committee is exemplary of the type of scholarship that \"The Modern Law Review\" aims to promote\". It is named in honour of Lord Wedderburn of Charlton, who served as general editor of the review from 1971 to 1988. Preference is given to the work of authors who are at a relatively early stage of their careers. Previous winners of the Wedderburn Prize include Kimberlee Weatherall, David Kershaw, and Nico Krisch.\n\n"}
{"id": "11537666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11537666", "title": "Negarchy", "text": "Negarchy\n\nNegarchy was a term coined by Daniel Deudney to mean a form of status quo maintained by the interrelations of the power structure and authority that modern states hold in relation to one another, which negate one another because of their respective influence. The situation of this kind of power compromise results in putting limits upon and reining in the rule of all such states by reducing their individual power and potential influence. Thus, it is a rule of their own creation to which they also unwillingly subject themselves. Comparisons have been drawn between the negarchy and natural law structures and with intranational markets. Negarchy is described as being a form of governing between \"anarchy and hierarchy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31771913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31771913", "title": "Non-simultaneity", "text": "Non-simultaneity\n\nNon-simultaneity or nonsynchronism (German: \"Ungleichzeitigkeit\", sometimes also translated as non-synchronicity) is a concept in the writings of Ernst Bloch which denotes the time lag, or uneven temporal development, produced in the social sphere by the processes of capitalist modernization and/or the incomplete nature of those processes. The term, especially in the phrase \"the simultaneity of the non-simultaneous\", has been used subsequently in predominantly Marxist theories of modernity, world-systems, postmodernity and globalization.\n\nThe phrase \"the non-simultaneity of the simultaneous\" (\"die 'Ungleichzeitigket' des Gleichzeitigen\") was first used by the German art historian in his 1926 book \"Das Problem der Generation in der Kunstgeschichte Europas\" (\"The Problem of Generation in European Art History\").\n\nBloch's principal use of the term \"non-simultaneity\" was in an essay from 1932 which attempted to explain the rise and popularity of National Socialism in Germany in the light of the capitalist economic crisis of the Great Depression and which became a chapter of his influential 1935 study \"Heritage of our Times\" (\"Erbschaft dieser Zeit\"). The essay's central idea is that heterogeneous stages of social and economic development coexist simultaneously in 1930s Germany. Because of uneven modernization, Bloch argues, there remained in Germany, \"this classical land of non-simultaneity\", significant traces of pre-capitalist relations of production:\n\n\"Not all people exist in the same Now. They do so only externally, by virtue of the fact that they may all be seen today. But that does not mean that they are living at the same time with others.\n\nRather, they carry earlier things with them, things which are intricately involved. One has one's times according to where one stands corporeally, above all in terms of classes. Times older than the present continue to effect older strata; here it is easy to return or dream one's way back to older times. [...] In general, different years resound in the one that has just been recorded and prevails. Moreover, they do not emerge in a hidden way as previously but rather, they contradict the Now in a very peculiar way, awry, from the rear. [...] Many earlier forces, from quite a different Below, are beginning to slip between. [...]\n\nOver and above a great deal of false nonsynchronism [non-simultaneity] there is this one in particular: Nature, and more than that, the ghost of history comes very easily to the desperate peasant, to the bankrupt petty bourgeois; the depression which releases the ghost takes place in a country with a particularly large amount of pre-capitalist material. It is important to ask whether Germany is not more undeveloped, even more vulcanic than, for instance, France, in terms of its \"power\". Certainly it has not formed and evened out capitalist \"ratio\" nearly as synchronously.\"\n\nThe text signals that to some extent these ideas derive from Marx's \"Critique of Political Economy\", and in particular his notion of \"the unequal rate of development\", or \"uneven development\" (as it is more usually rendered in its Trotskyist formulation). Marx had also used the term \"simultaneity\" (\"Gleichzeitigkeit\") in his explanation of the concentration of production processes under the demands of commodity production in the first volume of \"Das Kapital\" (see below). But Bloch's argument is also an attempt to counter simplistic interpretations of Hegelian and Marxist teleology, by introducing what he terms \"the polyrhythm and the counterpoint of such dialectics\", a \"polyphonous\", \"multispatial\" and \"multitemporal\" dialectics, not in order to deny the possibility of proletarian revolution, but in order to \"gain \"additional revolutionary force\" from the \"incomplete\" wealth of the past\":\n\nThe still subversive and utopian contents in the relations of people to people and nature, which are not past because they were never quite attained, can only be of use in this way. These contents are, as it were, the goldbearing gravel in the course of previous labor processes and their superstructures in the form of works. Polyphonous dialectics, as a dialectics of the \"contradictions\" which are more concentrated today than ever, has in any case enough questions and contents in capitalism that are not yet \"superseded by the course of economic development\".\n\nThis argument touches on the need to understand the spatial dynamics of capitalism that would be taken up in the 1960s and 1970s by Marxist urban philosopher Henri Lefebvre, with his analysis of the dialectics of (urban) space, and his work on \"rhythmanalysis\". It also anticipates the study of the subaltern's \"contradicted\" relationship to Western modernity undertaken by subaltern studies and postcolonial theory (see below).\n\nAlthough often attributed to \"Nonsynchronism and the Obligation to its Dialectics\", the phrase \"die Gleichzeitigkeit des Ungleichzeitigen\" (\"the simultaneity of the non-simultaneous\" or \"the synchronism/synchronicity of the nonsynchronous\") — i.e., a reversal of Pinder's \"non-simultaneity of the simultaneous\" — is not explicitly used in this work. Bloch elaborates instead the idea of synchronous and nonsynchronous \"contradictions\" with \"the Now\". By \"synchronous contradiction\" he means those forces of contradiction (to capital) that capitalism itself generates, principally the contemporary industrialized proletariat (as analysed by Marx). \"Nonsynchronous contradiction\" refers to the atavistic survival of an \"uncompleted \"past\" which has not yet been 'sublated' by capitalism\" as discussed above.\n\nAfter the posthumous publication of Marx's \"Grundrisse\" in 1939, it became clear that a dialectic of simultaneity and non-simultaneity had been implicit in Marx's thinking on the spatiality and geography of capitalism. \"Das Kapital\" (1867–94) had argued on the one hand that the money form had arisen in order to allow for non-simultaneous or delayed exchange of commodities (as opposed to face-to-face bartering), and on the other that \"simultaneity\" (\"Gleichzeitigkeit\") was a requirement of (and a phenomenon produced by) the demands of commodity \"production\" (the capitalist has to be able to synchronize the disparate activities required to manufacture a product). The powerful spatio-temporal effects of the dual demands of exchange and commodity production were summarized in the \"Grundrisse\" with the concept of \"the annihilation of space by time\", i.e. with the imposition of simultaneity or synchronicity over spatial separation and geographical diversity:\n\nThe more production comes to rest on exchange value, hence on exchange, the more important do the physical conditions of exchange — the means of communication and transport — become for the costs of circulation. Capital by its nature drives beyond every spatial barrier. Thus the creation of the physical conditions of exchange — of the means of communication and transport — the annihilation of space by time — becomes an extraordinary necessity for it.\n\nAt the same time, Marx showed himself to be acutely aware of the resistances to this overcoming of spatio-temporal barriers, and, more importantly, to the fact that capitalism \"itself generates its own resistances\", or contradictions, to the universalization of its mode of production:\n\nBut from the fact that capital posits every such limit as a barrier and hence gets \"ideally\" beyond it, it does not by any means follow that it has \"really\" overcome it, and, since every such barrier contradicts its character, its production moves in contradictions which are constantly overcome but just as constantly posited. Furthermore. The universality towards which it irresistibly strives encounters barriers in its own nature, which will, at a certain stage of its development, allow it to be recognized as being itself the greatest barrier to this tendency, and hence will drive towards its own suspension.\n\nDue to the late publication of the \"Grundrisse\", Bloch would not have been acquainted with these precise words at the time of the writing of \"Nonsynchronism\", although the similarity of concepts relating to the way in which capitalism posits its own (simultaneous and non-simultaneous) contradictions to production ultimately derives from \"Das Kapital\" as discussed above.\n\nThe problematic of simultaneity/non-simultaneity and synchronism/nonsynchronism was taken up in the work of post-Second-World-War Marxist sociologists and philosophers, such as Theodor Adorno, Nicos Poulantzas, Louis Althusser and Étienne Balibar.\n\nAs structural Marxists, Althusser and Balibar were concerned to understand how \"the problems of diachrony\" in the transition from one mode of production to another could be related to the overall structure or \"synchrony\" of production. In \"Reading Capital\" (1970), they argue, in similar vein to Bloch, that the succession of different modes of production as theorized by Marx is not a teleological process driven by \"the forward march of the productive forces\", but that instead periods of transition are marked by \"the coexistence of several modes of production\":\n\nThus it seems that the dislocation [\"décalage\"] between the connexions and instances in transition periods merely reflects the coexistence of two (or more) modes of production in a single 'simultaneity ', and the dominance of one of them over the other. This confirms the fact that the problems of diachrony, too, must be thought within the problematic of a theoretical 'synchrony': the problems of the transition and of the forms of the transition from one mode of production to another are problems of a more general synchrony than that of the mode of production itself, englobing several systems and their relations.\n\nFor the Greek political sociologist and structural Marxist Nicos Poulantzas, forms of socio-cultural difference such as \"territory and historico-cultural tradition [...] produce the uneven development of capitalism as an unevenness of historical moments affecting those differentiated, classified and distinct spaces that are called nations\". In \"State, Power, Socialism\" (1978), he argues that such differences are in fact a \"precondition\" for global capitalist development.\n\nAlthusser and Balibar's contemporary, Henri Lefebvre, was sharply critical of what he saw as these writers' fetishization of a fixed, abstract and purely structural notion of \"general\" synchronic space subsuming diachronic or historical processes. By contrast, Lefebvre's own \"turbulent \"spatiality\"\" which \"would restore geography to history, history to geography\", together with his rhythmanalysis, shares at least a common vocabulary with Bloch's multispatial and multitemporal dialectics. Lefebvre was also one of the first commentators to link uneven development to the production of space on a global scale: \"The law of unevenness of growth and development, so far from becoming obsolete, is becoming world-wide in its application — or, more precisely is presiding over the globalization of a world market\".\n\nMeanwhile, Belgian Marxist Ernest Mandel was developing, at the same time as Lefebvre, a characterization of \"late capitalism\" which also refuses the idea that (global) capitalism produces homogeneity. Instead, he argues, capitalism must \"produce\" \"underdevelopment\" in order to maximize the production of surplus profit:\n\nThe entire capitalist system thus appears as a hierarchical structure of different levels of productivity, and as the outcome of the uneven and combined development of states, regions, branches of industry and firms, unleashed by the quest for surplus-profit. It forms an integrated unity, but it is an integrated unity of non-homogeneous parts, and it is precisely the unity that here determines the lack of homogeneity. In this whole system development and underdevelopment reciprocally determine each other, for while the quest for surplus-profits constitutes the prime motive power behind the mechanisms of growth, surplus-profit can only be achieved at the expense of less productive regions and branches of production.\n\nThinkers as diverse as Immanuel Wallerstein, with his world-systems theory, David Harvey with his analysis of the \"Limits to Capital\" (1982) and time–space compression, and Harvey's erstwhile student Neil Smith with his \"Uneven Development\", can all be seen to develop one or other aspect of this line of Marxist thought. The early work of Anthony Giddens and in particular his concept of \"time-space distanciation\", e.g. in his \"Critique of Historical Materialism\" (1981), has also been influential in this area.\n\nPerhaps the most famous use of Bloch's terminology to date is that made by the Marxist cultural critic Fredric Jameson when describing the economic basis of modernism in \"Postmodernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism\" (1991):\n\nModernism must thus be seen as uniquely corresponding to an uneven moment of social development, or to what Ernst Bloch called the \"simultaneity of the nonsimultaneous,\" the \"synchronicity of the nonsynchronous\" (\"Gleichzeitigkeit des Ungleichzeitigen\"): the coexistence of realities from radically different moments of history — handicrafts alongside the great cartels, peasant fields with the Krupp factories or the Ford plant in the distance.\n\nJameson goes on, however, to argue that with the advent of postmodernity and its attendant postmodernisms, the \"uneven moment\" of modernity has been completely replaced by the mass standardization and homogenization of the third, multinational, phase of capitalist development:\n\nthe postmodern must be characterized as a situation in which the survival, the residue, the holdover, the archaic, has finally been swept away without a trace. In the postmodern, then, the past itself has disappeared (along with the well-known \"sense of the past\" or historicity and collective memory). Where its buildings still remain, renovation and restoration allow them to be transferred to the present in their entirety as those other, very different and postmodern things called \"simulacra\". Everything is now organized and planned; nature has been triumphantly blotted out, along with peasants, petit-bourgeois commerce, handicraft, feudal aristocracies and imperial bureaucracies. Ours is a more homogeneously modernized condition; we no longer are encumbered with the embarrassment of non-simultaneities and non-synchronicities. Everything has reached the same hour on the great clock of development or rationalization (at least from the perspective of the \"West\"). This is the sense in which we can affirm, either that modernism is characterized by a situation of incomplete \"modernization\", or that postmodernism is more modern than modernism itself.\n\nSubaltern studies and postcolonial theory, however, tend to maintain that the idea of a globally homogenized space, even under postmodernity, is undercut precisely by Bloch's \"nonsynchronous remnants\" and diverse temporalities. Homi K. Bhabha, commenting on Jameson, claims that\n\nWhat is manifestly new about this version of international space and its social (in)visibility is its temporal measure [...] The non-synchronous temporality of global and national cultures opens up a cultural space — a third space — where the negotiation of incommensurable differences creates a tension peculiar to borderline existences.\n\nPostcolonial anthropologist Arjun Appadurai makes a similar point in his book \"Modernity at Large\" (1996) via an implicit critique of Wallerstein: \"The new global cultural economy has to be seen as a complex, overlapping, disjunctive order that cannot any longer be understood in terms of existing center-periphery models (even those that might account for multiple centers and peripheries)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1915189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1915189", "title": "Pari passu", "text": "Pari passu\n\nPari passu is a Latin phrase that literally means \"with an equal step\" or \"on equal footing\". It is sometimes translated as \"ranking equally\", \"hand-in-hand\", \"with equal force\", or \"moving together\", and by extension, \"fairly\", \"without partiality\".\n\nThis term is commonly used in law. \"Black's Law Dictionary\" (8th ed., 2004) defines \"pari passu\" as \"proportionally; at an equal pace; without preference\". \n\nIn inheritance, an \"in pari passu\" (\"per capita\") distribution can be distinguished from a \"per stirpes\" (by family branch) distribution. \n\nFor example, suppose a testator had two children A and B. A has two children, and B has three. The testator leaves his entire estate to his grandchildren in equal shares \"in pari passu\", each grandchild would inherit one fifth of the estate. If the testator left his entire estate to his grandchildren \"per stirpes\" (by family branch), the children of A would share one half of the estate equally between the two of them, and the children of B would share one half of the estate equally amongst the three of them. \n\nThe problem with a per capita \"in pari passu\" distribution in the example given is as follows. Assume A dies before B. On A's death a distribution could not be made to his or her children: they would have to await the death of B – on the assumption that B could have additional children, and thereby consequently all grandchildren (of both A and B) would be entitled to less than one fifth each.\n\nThis term is also often used in the lending area and in bankruptcy proceedings, where creditors are said to be paid \"pari passu\", or each creditor is paid \"pro rata\" in accordance with the amount of his claim. Here its meaning is \"equally and without preference\".\nThere have been cases where decisions were based on different interpretations of the term.\n\nIn the European Union, as the result of the Greek government-debt crisis, a retroactive Collective action clause passed by the Greek government with the support of the ECB and IMF, enabled the debtor (who also controlled the courts) to impose a 70% loss on the creditors, more than 75% of whom had voted in favour of the cut. In this case, \"pari passu\" means that all private-sector investors are equally treated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32368422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32368422", "title": "Paul Williamson", "text": "Paul Williamson\n\nPaul Stewart Williamson (born 1948) is a controversial Anglo-Catholic priest in the Church of England. He has brought high-profile civil suits in English courts over matters of Anglican faith and practice, including the ordination of women to the priesthood and the legality of the marriage of Charles, Prince of Wales to Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall.\n\nWilliamson was born in 1948. He studied theology at King's College London, and graduated in 1971 with a Bachelor of Divinity (BD) degree and the Associateship of King's College (AKC).\n\nWilliamson was ordained in the Church of England as a deacon in 1972 and as a priest in 1973. From 1972 to 1975, he served his curacy at St Paul's, Deptford in the Diocese of Southwark. He was an honorary curate of St John the Divine, Kennington between 1976 and 1977.\n\nIn 1978, Williamson moved to the Diocese of London. He served as a curate at Holy Trinity with St Mary, Hoxton from 1978 to 1983, at All Saints, Margaret Street from 1983 to 1984, and at St Mary's, Willesden from 1984 to 1985. For the next three years, he was not attached to any parish but held Permission to Officiate in the diocese. In 1989, he joined St George's Church, Hanworth as a curate. Since 1992, he has been Priest-in-Charge of St George's.\n\nWilliamson is an Anglo-Catholic. He is a member of the Society of Mary.\n\nWilliamson is a well-known opponent of the ordination of women to the priesthood. In 1997 he sued the Dean and Chapter of St Paul's Cathedral for appointing a woman as a minor canon. On 16 July 1997, he was declared to be a vexatious litigant by justice Christopher Rose at the Royal Courts of Justice. As a result, he is no longer allowed to bring action within the Courts of England and Wales without permission.\n\nIn 2005, Williamson protested against the legality of the marriage of Charles, Prince of Wales to Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall.\n\nIn 2011, with others, Williamson challenged a major grant by the Confraternity of the Blessed Sacrament to the Personal Ordinariate of Our Lady of Walsingham. The Charity Commission for England and Wales, which described the complainants as \"a substantial number\", subsequently ruled that the grant had been unlawful.\n\nOn 26 January 2015, Williamson interrupted the consecration service for the Church of England's first woman to become a bishop, Libby Lane, at York Minster. His objection was responded to by John Sentamu, Archbishop of York (who was officiating) and the service continued.\n\n"}
{"id": "24547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24547", "title": "Poll tax", "text": "Poll tax\n\nA poll tax, also known as head tax or capitation, is a tax levied as a fixed sum on every liable individual.\n\nHead taxes were important sources of revenue for many governments from ancient times until the 19th century. In the United Kingdom, poll taxes were levied by the governments of John of Gaunt in the 14th century, Charles II in the 17th and Margaret Thatcher in the 20th century. In the United States, voting poll taxes have been used to disenfranchise impoverished and minority voters (especially under Reconstruction).\n\nPoll taxes are considered very regressive taxes, and are usually very unpopular and have been implicated in many uprisings.\n\nThe word \"poll\" is an archaic term for \"head\" or \"top of the head\".citation needed The sense of \"counting heads\" is found in phrases like polling place and opinion poll.\n\nAs prescribed in Exodus (30: 11-16) Jewish law imposed a poll tax of half-shekel, payable by every man above the age of twenty (\"the rich shall not pay more and the poor shall not pay less\").\n\nThe money was designated for the Tabernacle in the Exodus narrative and later for the upkeep of the Temple of Jerusalem. Priests, women, slaves and minors were exempted, although they could offer it voluntarily. Payment by Samaritans or Gentiles was rejected. It was collected yearly during the month of Adar, both at the Temple and at special collection bureaux in the provinces.\n\nZakat al-Fitr is an obligatory charity that must be given by every Muslim (or their guardian) near the end of every Ramadan. Muslims in dire poverty are exempt from it. The amount is 2 kg of wheat or barley, or its cash equivalent. Zakat al-Fitr is to be given to the poor.\n\nJizya was a poll tax imposed under Islamic law on non-Muslims permanently residing in a Muslim state as part of their \"dhimmi\" status. The tax is levied on free-born abled-bodied men of military age. The indigent were exempt, as well as slaves, women, children, the old, the sick, monks and hermits.\n\nSeveral rationales for the jizya have been advanced. They include the argument that jizya was a fee in exchange for the dhimma (permission to practice one's faith, enjoy communal autonomy, and to be entitled to Muslim protection from outside aggression), and the argument that imposition of jizya on non-Muslims is similar to the imposition of zakat (one of the Five Pillars of Islam, an obligatory wealth tax paid on certain assets which are not used productively for a period of a year) on Muslims.\n\nAlthough jizya is often called a poll tax, its assessment and collection was commonly qualified by income. For instance, Amr ibn al-As, after conquering Egypt, set up a census to measure the population for the jizya, and thus the total expected jizya revenue for the whole province, but organized the actual collection by partitioning the population into wealth classes, so that the rich paid more and the poor less jizya of that total sum. Elsewhere, it is reported customary to partition into three classes, e.g. 48 dirhams for the rich, 24 for middle class and 12 for the poor.\n\nIn 1855, the Ottoman Empire abolished the jizya tax, as part of reforms to equalize the status of Muslims and non-Muslims. It was replaced by a military-exemption tax on non-Muslims, the Bedel-i Askeri.\n\nThe Chinese head tax was a fixed fee charged to each Chinese person entering Canada. The head tax was first levied after the Canadian parliament passed the Chinese Immigration Act of 1885 and was meant to discourage Chinese people from entering Canada after the completion of the Canadian Pacific Railway. The tax was abolished by the Chinese Immigration Act of 1923, which stopped all Chinese immigration except for business people, clergy, educators, students, and other categories.\n\nThe poll tax was essentially a lay subsidy (a tax on the movable property of most of the population) to help fund war. It had first been levied in 1275 and continued, under different names, until the 17th century. People were taxed a percentage of the assessed value of their movable goods. That percentage varied from year to year and place to place, and which goods could be taxed differed between urban and rural locations. Churchmen were exempt, as were the poor, workers in the Royal Mint, inhabitants of the Cinque Ports, tin workers in Cornwall and Devon, and those who lived in the Palatinate counties of Cheshire and Durham.\n\nThe Hilary Parliament, held between January and March 1377, levied a poll tax in 1377 to finance the war against France at the request of John of Gaunt who, since King Edward III was mortally sick, was the de facto head of government at the time. This tax covered almost 60% of the population, far more than lay subsidies had earlier. It was levied two more times after 1377, in 1379 and 1381. Each time the taxation basis was slightly different. In 1377, every lay person over the age of 14 years who was not a beggar had to pay a groat (4d) to the Crown. By 1379 that had been graded by social class, with the lower age limit changed to 16, and to 15 two years later. The levy of 1381 operated under a combination of both flat rate and graduated assessments. The minimum amount payable was set at 4d, however tax collectors had to account for a 12d a head mean assessment. Payments were therefore variable; the poorest in theory would pay the lowest rate with the deficit being met by a higher payment from those able to afford it. The 1381 tax has been credited as one of the main reasons behind the Peasants' Revolt in that year, due in part to attempts to restore feudal conditions in rural areas.\n\nThe poll tax was resurrected during the 17th century, usually related to a military emergency. It was imposed by Charles I in 1641 to finance the raising of the army against the Scottish and Irish uprisings. With the Restoration of Charles II in 1660, the Convention Parliament of 1660 instituted a poll tax to finance the disbanding of the New Model Army (pay arrears, etc.) (12 Charles II c.9). The poll tax was assessed according to \"rank\", e.g. dukes paid £100, earls £60, knights £20, esquires £10. Eldest sons paid 2/3rds of their father's rank, widows paid a third of their late husband's rank. The members of the livery companies paid according to company's rank (e.g. masters of first-tier guilds like the Mercers paid £10, whereas masters of fifth-tier guilds, like the Clerks, paid 5 shillings). Professionals also paid differing rates, e.g. physicians (£10), judges (£20), advocates (£5), attorneys (£3), and so on. Anyone with property (land, etc.) paid 40 shillings per £100 earned, anyone over the age of 16 and unmarried paid 12-pence and everyone else over 16 paid 6-pence.\n\nThe poll tax was imposed again by William III and Mary II in 1689 (1 Will. & Mar. c.13), reassessed in 1690 adjusting rank for fortune, and then again in 1691 back to rank irrespective of fortune. The poll tax was imposed again in 1692, and one final time in 1698 (the last poll tax in England until the 20th century). A poll tax was imposed on Scotland between 1694 and 1699.\n\nAs the greater weight of the 17th century poll taxes fell primarily upon the wealthy and powerful, it was not too unpopular. There were grumblings within the taxed ranks about lack of differentiation by income within ranks. Ultimately, it was the inefficiency of their collection – what they brought in routinely fell far short of expected revenues – that prompted the government to abandon the poll tax after 1698.\n\nFar more controversial was the hearth tax introduced in 1662 (13 & 14 Charles II c.10), which imposed a hefty two shillings on every hearth in a family dwelling (which was easier to count than persons). Heavier, more permanent and more regressive than the poll tax proper, the intrusive entry of tax inspectors into private homes to count hearths was a very sore point, and it was promptly repealed with the Glorious Revolution in 1689. It was replaced with a \"window tax\" in 1695 (inspectors could count windows from outside homes).\n\nThe Community Charge, unofficially known as the \"Poll Tax\" , was a tax to fund local government in the United Kingdom, instituted in 1989 by the government of Margaret Thatcher. It replaced the rates that were based on the notional rental value of a house. The abolition of rates was in the Conservative Party manifesto for the 1979 general election, and the replacement was proposed in the Green Paper of 1986, \"Paying for Local Government\" based on ideas developed by Dr. Madsen Pirie and Douglas Mason of the Adam Smith Institute. It was a fixed tax per adult resident, but there was a reduction for those with lower household income. Each person was to pay for the services provided in their community. This proposal was contained in the Conservative Party Manifesto for the 1987 general election. The new tax replaced the rates in Scotland from the start of the 1989/90 financial year, and in England and Wales from the start of the 1990/91 financial year.\n\nThe system was unpopular. Many thought it shifted the tax burden from the rich to the poor, as it was based on the number of occupants living in a house rather than on the estimated market value of the house. Many tax rates set by local councils proved to be much higher than earlier predictions; this led to resentment, even among some who had supported the introduction of it. The tax in different boroughs differed because local taxes paid by businesses varied and grants by central government to local authorities sometimes varied capriciously.\n\nMass protests were called by the All Britain Anti-Poll Tax Federation, with which the vast majority of local Anti-Poll Tax Unions (APTUs) were affiliated. In Scotland, the APTUs called for mass non-payment and these calls rapidly gathered widespread support which spread as far as England and Wales, even though non-payment meant that people could be prosecuted. In some areas, 30% of former ratepayers defaulted. While owner-occupiers were easy to tax, those who regularly changed accommodation were almost impossible to pursue if they chose not to pay. The cost of collecting the tax rose steeply while the returns from it fell. Unrest grew and resulted in a number of poll tax riots. The most serious was in a protest at Trafalgar Square, London, on 31 March 1990, of more than 200,000 protesters. Terry Fields, Labour MP for Liverpool Broadgreen; was jailed for 60 days for his refusal to pay the poll tax.\n\nThis unrest led, in part, to the end of Thatcher's premiership. Her successor, John Major, replaced the poll tax with the Council Tax, similar to the rating system that preceded the Poll Tax. The main differences were that it was levied on capital value rather than notional rental value of a property, and that it had a 25% discount for single-occupancy dwellings.\n\nIn 2015 Lord Waldegrave reflected in his memoirs that the poll tax was all his own work and that it was a serious mistake. Although he felt the policy looked like it would work, it wasn't implemented how he thought it would be. \"They went gung ho and introduced it overnight in one go, which was never my plan and I thought they must know what there were doing - but they didn't.\" \n\nIn France, a poll tax, the capitation, was first imposed by King Louis XIV in 1695 as a temporary measure to finance the War of the League of Augsburg, and thus repealed in 1699. It was resumed during the War of Spanish Succession and in 1704 set on a permanent basis, remaining until the end of the \"Ancien regime\".\n\nLike the English poll tax, the French capitation tax was assessed on rank – for taxation persons, French society was divided in twenty-two \"classes\", with the Dauphin (a class by himself) paying 2,000 livres, princes of the blood paying 1500 livres, and so on down to the lowest class, composed of day laborers and servants, who paid 1 livre each. The bulk of the common population was covered by four classes, paying 40, 30, 10 and 3 livres respectively. Unlike most other direct French taxes, nobles and clergy were not exempted from capitation taxes. It did, however, exempt the mendicant orders and the poor who contributed less than 40 sous.\n\nThe French clergy managed to temporarily escape capitation assessment by promising to pay a total sum of 4 million livres per annum in 1695, and then obtained permanent exemption in 1709 with a lump sum payment of 24 million livres. The \"Pays d'états\" (Brittany, Burgundy, etc.) and many towns also escaped assessment by promising annual fixed payments. The nobles did not escape assessment, but they obtained the right to appoint their own capitation tax assessors, which allowed them to escape most of the burden (in one calculation, they escaped ⅞ of it).\n\nCompounding the burden, the assessment on the capitation did not remain stable. The \"pays de taille personelle\" (basically, Pays d'élection, the bulk of France and Aquitaine) secured the ability to assess the capitation tax proportionally to the taille – which effectively meant adjusting the burden heavily against the lower classes. According to the estimates of Jacques Necker in 1788, the capitation tax was so riddled in practice, that the privileged classes (nobles and clergy and towns) were largely exempt, while the lower classes were heavily crushed: the lowest peasant class, originally assessed to pay 3 livres, were now paying 24, the second lowest, assessed at 10 livres, were now paying 60 and the third-lowest assessed at 30 were paying 180. The total collection from the capitation, according to Necker in 1788, was 41 million livres, well short of the 54 million estimate, and it was projected that the revenues could have doubled if the exemptions were revoked and the original 1695 assessment properly restored.\n\nThe old capitation tax was repealed with the French Revolution and replaced, on January 13 1791, with a new poll tax as part of the \"contribution personnelle mobilière\", which lasted well into the late 19th century. It was fixed for every individual at \"three days's labor\" (assessed locally, but by statute, no less than 1 franc 50 centimes and no more than 4 francs 50 centimes, depending on the area). A dwelling tax (\"impôt sur les portes et fenêtres\", similar to the English window-tax) was imposed in 1791.\n\nThe numbers of the Chinese immigration went from 20,000 a year to 8 people after the government-imposed \"head tax\". New Zealand imposed a poll tax on Chinese immigrants during the 19th and early 20th centuries. The poll tax was effectively lifted in the 1930s following the invasion of China by Japan, and was finally repealed in 1944. Prime Minister Helen Clark offered New Zealand's Chinese community an official apology for the poll tax on 12 February 2002.\n\nThe Jewish poll tax was a poll tax imposed on the Jews in Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. It was later absorbed into the \"hiberna\" tax.\n\nThe ancient Romans imposed a \"tributum capitis\" (poll tax) as one of the principal direct taxes on the peoples of the Roman provinces (\"Digest\" 50, tit.15). In the Republican period, poll taxes were principally collected by private tax farmers (\"publicani\"), but from the time of Emperor Augustus, the collections were gradually transferred to magistrates and the senates of provincial cities. The Roman census was conducted periodically in the provinces to draw up and update the poll tax register.\n\nThe Roman poll tax fell principally on Roman subjects in the provinces, but not on Roman citizens. Towns in the provinces who possessed the \"Jus Italicum\" (enjoying the \"privileges of Italy\") were exempted from the poll tax. The 212 edict of Emperor Caracalla which formally conferred Roman citizenship on all residents of Roman provinces, did not however exempt them from the poll tax.\n\nThe Roman poll tax was deeply resented—Tertullian bewailed the poll tax as a \"badge of slavery\"—and it provoked numerous revolts in the provinces. Perhaps most famous is the Zealot revolt in Judaea of 66 AD. After the destruction of the temple in 70 AD, the Emperor imposed an extra poll tax on Jews throughout the empire, the \"fiscus judaicus\", of two denarii each.\n\nThe Italian revolt of the 720s, organized and led by Pope Gregory II, was originally provoked by the attempt of the Constantinople Emperor Leo III the Isaurian to introduce a poll tax in the Italian provinces of the Byzantine Empire in 722, and set in motion the permanent separation of Italy from the Byzantine empire. When King Aistulf of the Lombards availed himself of the Italian dissent and invaded the Exarchate of Ravenna in 751, one of his first acts was to institute a crushing poll tax of one gold solidus per head on every Roman citizen. Seeking relief from this burden, Pope Stephen II appealed to Pepin the Short of the Franks for assistance, that led to the establishment of the Papal States in 756.\n\nThe Russian Empire imposed a poll tax in 1718. Nikolay Bunge, Finance Minister from 1881 to 1886 under Emperor Alexander III, abolished it in 1886.\n\nPrior to the mid 20th century, a poll tax was implemented in some U.S. state and local jurisdictions and paying it was a pre-condition before one could exercise their right to vote. After this right was extended to all races by the ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution, many Southern states enacted poll tax laws as a means of restricting eligible voters; such laws often included a grandfather clause, which allowed any adult male whose father or grandfather had voted in a specific year prior to the abolition of slavery to vote without paying the tax. These laws, along with literacy tests and extra-legal intimidation, achieved the desired effect of disenfranchising African-Americans, as well as poor whites. Often in US discussions, the term \"poll tax\" is used to mean a tax that must be paid in order to vote, rather than a capitation tax simply. The Twenty-fourth Amendment, ratified in 1964, prohibits both Congress and the states from conditioning the right to vote on payment of a poll tax or other types of tax.\n\nThe ninth section of Article One of the Constitution places several limits on Congress' powers. Among them, \"No capitation, or other direct, tax shall be laid, unless in proportion to the census or enumeration herein before directed to be taken\". Capitation here means a tax of a uniform, fixed amount per taxpayer. Direct tax means a tax levied directly by the United States federal government on taxpayers, as opposed to a tax on events or transactions. The United States government levied direct taxes from time to time during the 18th and early 19th centuries. It levied direct taxes on the owners of houses, land, slaves and estates in the late 1790s but cancelled the taxes in 1802.\n\nAn income tax is neither a poll tax nor a capitation, as the amount of tax will vary from person to person, depending on each person's income. Until a United States Supreme Court decision in 1895, all income taxes were deemed to be excises (i.e., indirect taxes). The Revenue Act of 1861 established the first income tax in the United States, to pay for the cost of the American Civil War. This income tax was abolished after the war, in 1872. Another income tax statute in 1894 was overturned in \"Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.\" in 1895, where the Supreme Court held that income taxes on income from property, such as rent income, interest income, and dividend income (however excepting income taxes on income from \"occupations and labor\" if only for the reason of not having been challenged in the case, \"We have considered the act only in respect of the tax on income derived from real estate, and from invested personal property\") were to be treated as direct taxes. Because the statute in question had not apportioned income taxes on income from property by population, the statute was ruled unconstitutional. Finally, ratification of the Sixteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1913 made possible modern income taxes, by limiting the Sixteenth Amendment income tax to the class of indirect excises (i.e. excises, duties, and imposts) – thus requiring no apportionment,\n\nVarious cities, including Chicago and Denver, have levied head taxes with a set rate per employee targeted at large employers. After Cupertino postponed head tax proposals to 2020, Mountain View became the only city in Silicon Valley, California, to continue to pursue such type of taxes.\nIn 2018, the Seattle city council proposed a \"head tax\" of $500 per year per employee. The proposed tax was lowered to $275 per year per employee, was passed, and became \"the biggest head tax in U.S. history\", though it was repealed less than a month later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52949421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52949421", "title": "Rameshwari Photocopy Service shop copyright case", "text": "Rameshwari Photocopy Service shop copyright case\n\nRameshwari Photocopy Services is a shop licensed to it within the precincts of the Delhi School of Economics (University of Delhi), which came into limelight due to copyright litigation filed by five prominent publishers which included Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press and Taylor & Francis. The case also colloquially came to be known as the 'DU Photocopy Case'.\n\nAlbeit with an initial denial by the University of Delhi, the ultimate picture which\nemerged was that the professors imparting teaching in the Delhi School of\nEconomics had authorized preparation of course packs and Rameshwari\nPhotocopy Services was entrusted with the task of photocopying the pages\nfrom the books published by the plaintiffs, and after binding the same, to\nsupply them to the students charging 50 paisa per page.\n\nRameshwari Photocopy shop was established in 1998 and is owned by Mr. Dharampal.\n\nAssociation of Students for Equitable Access to Knowledge (ASEAK) and Society for Promoting Educational Access and Knowledge (SPEAK) sought and allowd for impleadment.\n\nThe case of the plaintiffs that the inclusion of specific pages of its\npublications by Rameshwari Photocopy Services, under the authority of the\nDelhi School of Economics, amounts to institutional sanction for\ninfringement of its copyright.\n\nIt is the further case of the plaintiffs that the\nprofessors of the Delhi School of Economics, through its Library, issued the\nbooks published by the plaintiffs to Rameshwari Photocopy Services for\npreparing course packs.\n\nIt is the case of the plaintiffs that the course packs,\nwhich contain no additional material apart from photocopies of its\ncopyrighted publications, were being used like textbooks and therefore, the\ncompilations prepared were competing with the publications of the plaintiffs.\n\nAccording to the plaintiffs, Rameshwari Photocopy Services was operating\ncommercially as was evident from the rate charged by it for selling the course\npack is 40/50 paisa per page, as distinct from the market rate of 20/25 paisa\nper page being charged by other photocopiers from the students while\nphotocopying material given by the students to be photocopied.\n\nAnticipating that the defence would be predicated under Section 52(1)(i) of the Copyright Act, 1957, the plaintiffs have pleaded that Section 52(1)(i) was not applicable since reproduction by Rameshwari Photocopy Services, with the assistance of Delhi School of Economics, could not be classified as reproduction by a\nteacher or a pupil in the course of instruction. Additionally/alternatively the reproduction in the manner carried out by Rameshwari Photocopy Services if held falling within the ambit of Section 52(1)(i) would render Section 52(1)(h) superfluous was the contention. Meaning thereby, the plaintiffs had required the two sub-Sections to be harmonized. The plaintiffs have further\npleaded that Section 52(1)(i) only covered reproduction in the course of\ninstruction‘ and not in the course of preparation for instruction‘ as was\nevident from the replacement of the expression in the course of preparation\nfor instruction‘ in the Bill which was tabled before the Legislature with the\nexpression in the course of instruction‘ in the Act as finally promulgated\nupon the Bill being adopted; with modifications by the Legislature.\nAccording to the plaintiffs, reproduction by Rameshwari Photocopy Services\nfell within the ambit of Section 52(1)(h) and would have to be limited to two\npassages from works by the same author published by the same publisher\nduring any period of five years as provided under the sub-Section.\n\nRameshwari Photocopy Services contested the copyright of the\nplaintiffs in the books from which the course packs were prepared.\nRameshwari Photocopy Services pleaded that the preparation of course packs\nby it amounts to fair use within the meaning of Sections 52(1)(a) and (h) of the Copyright Act, 1957. Rameshwari Photocopy Services pleaded that its activity does not affect the market for the plaintiffs’ books since it charges a nominal rate for its services as fixed by the License Deed executed between the Delhi School of Economics and Rameshwari Photocopy Services. As per it, the students cannot afford to buy all the books, extracts of which were mentioned in the syllabi prepared by the Delhi School of Economics.\n\nApart from adopting the stand taken by Rameshwari Photocopy\nServices, in its written statement, the University of Delhi pleaded that Section 52(1)(i) of the Copyright Act, 1957 permits students and educational institutions to copy portions from any work for research and educational purpose. The University pleaded that Rameshwari Photocopy Services has been licensed by it to operate a photocopy shop within its premises in order to facilitate photocopying by students for educational and research purpose. Denying issuing books to Rameshwari Photocopy Services for the purposes of preparation of course packs, the University pleaded that no limitation on the quantum of reproduction under Section 52(1)(i) has been provided under the Copyright Act, 1957 and because Section 52(1)(i) covers reproduction\nfor educational purposes, unlimited photocopying would be permitted. For\nwhich argumentative pleadings reference to the limitation of two passages\nprovided under Section 52(1)(h) was highlighted. The argument was that\nwherever the legislature had deemed fit, it had limited the extent of the\ncopying which was permissible. It was argued, by way of pleading, that the\nterm ‘reproduction‘ used in Section 52(1)(i) was distinct from the term\n‘publication‘ used in Section 52(1)(h), with Section 3 of the Act defining\npublication‘ as making a work available to the public‘, with the term\n‘public‘ having a wider connotation than the term students‘ and therefore, Section 52(1)(h) would not be applicable to preparation of course packs to be used by students for an educational purpose. University of Delhi pleaded that the expression course of instruction‘ must be interpreted expansively.\n\n\nOn 9 March 2017, news papers including \"Hindustan Times\" reported that, the three publisher announced to withdraw suit against Rameshwari Photocopy service shop and not to pursue photocopy shop case further in the courts. According to news report of \"The Hindu\", the publishers had told the division Bench that they had decided to withdraw the suit against Rameshwari Photocopy shop as they did not want to engage in a legal battle with their stakeholders — the educational institutions. Despite main plaintifs withdrew the case, Indian Reprographic Rights Organisation (IRRO), made an attempt to move a petition in Supreme Court challenging the judgment passed by the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court on 9 December 2016. Given that the original suit filed before the Delhi high court had been withdrawn by the publisher plaintiffs (OUP etc.) and the IRRO was merely an intervenor in the lower court proceedings, Supreme Court decided to not to interfere in the Highcourt order.\n\nOn 3 June 2017, The \"Financial Times\" also covered an extensive story on the case illustrating data from Nielsen that despite lack of public numbers, the publishers still made considerable profitable growth in India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2083796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2083796", "title": "Recorder (judge)", "text": "Recorder (judge)\n\nA Recorder is a judicial officer in England and Wales and some other common law jurisdictions.\n\nIn the courts of England and Wales the term Recorder has two distinct meanings. The senior circuit judge of a borough or city is often awarded the title of \"Honorary Recorder\". However, \"Recorder\" is also used to denote a barrister or solicitor who sits as a part-time circuit judge.\nIn England and Wales, originally a recorder was a certain magistrate or judge having criminal and civil jurisdiction within the corporation of a city or borough. Such incorporated bodies were given the right by the Crown to appoint a recorder. He was a person with legal knowledge appointed by the mayor and aldermen of the corporation to 'record' the proceedings of their courts and the customs of the borough or city. Such recordings were regarded as the highest evidence of fact. Typically, the appointment would be given to a senior and distinguished practitioner at the Bar, and it was, therefore, usually executed part-time only, by a person whose usual practice was as a barrister. It carried a great deal of prestige and power of patronage. The recorder of a borough was often entrusted by the mayor and corporation to nominate its Members of Parliament, as was the case with the Recorder of Barnstaple, who in 1545 nominated the two MPs to represent the Borough of Barnstaple. The only survival today of the historic office is the Recorder of London who is still appointed by the Court of Aldermen of the Corporation of the City of London and thereby becomes a member of that court. He is a senior Circuit Judge sitting at the Central Criminal Court (the Old Bailey).\n\nThe ancient recorderships of England and Wales now form part of a system of honorary recorderships which are filled by the most senior full-time circuit judges. At each Crown Court centre, a particular judge is appointed \"resident judge\", leads the team of judges who sit there and provides the essential link between the judiciary and the administration. In the larger city court centres, the resident judge is usually a senior circuit judge who is recruited and appointed specifically to that post. An exception is the Corporation of the City of London which still follows ancient custom as stated above.\n\nIn the many smaller towns and cities where the resident judge is not a senior circuit judge, the position is different. The resident judge is deployed specifically to that post by the Lord Chief Justice (with the concurrence of the Lord Chancellor) from the ranks of the circuit bench. They then hold office as resident judge for a set period, normally four years, although such appointments are renewable.\nWhilst the appointment of an honorary recorder has lain with the borough council since the Courts Act 1971, in practice the resident judge is appointed as the honorary recorder. In a borough that is coincident with an ancient assize the position is titular; that is, the resident judge is automatically entitled honorary recorder and continues to hold that title until their retirement from the post.\n\nIn the case where the resident judge is a fixed-term appointment, it is expected that the city or borough council will appoint them as honorary recorder for the duration of their tenure as resident judge. Boroughs which had a power by charter to appoint a recorder before 1971, but which had no quarter sessions, have a preserved right to appoint anyone, including non-lawyers, as honorary recorder, but an honorary recorder who is not a judge cannot sit as a judge in court or exercise any judicial functions. The procedure to be followed is that laid down by the Lord Chief Justice in his \"Guidelines for the Appointment of Honorary Recorders\", which states that it has been the practice of most large city councils to appoint the resident judge to be honorary recorder of the city during his tenure of the office. Some new positions have been created since 1971, for example for the Borough of Redbridge.\nThe appointment of an honorary recorder is made by the borough council concerned, and although it does not require the approval of a higher authority, the Lord Chief Justice has let it be known that he would be pleased if boroughs considering making such an appointment would first consult the Senior Presiding Judge for England and Wales.\n\nDue to the reorganisation of courts, especially where local government reorganisation has occurred at the same time, some titles bestowed by one council may be held by the senior resident judge sitting in another borough; a prominent example is the Recorder of the City of Westminster who presides at the Crown Court situated in the London Borough of Southwark.\n\nThe protocol of the use of the title is that it is customary for an honorary recorder, when sitting in the Crown Court in the city or town where he holds that office, to be described as such in the published court lists. This should not be done, however, when the judge is sitting in the Crown Court in another city or town, whether or not that city or town has an honorary recorder of its own.\nHonorary recorders who are also senior circuit judges are authorised by the Lord Chief Justice to wear red robes when sitting in court. These robes are based on the design of the robes worn by judges of the county courts, but in red and black. They were designed for the recorders of Manchester and Liverpool in 1956. The right to wear them in court was extended in the 1980s to the other senior circuit judges appointed as honorary recorders, but has not been extended to those who are not senior circuit judges. Accordingly, when sitting in court, honorary recorders who are not senior circuit judges continue to wear the normal robes of a circuit judge sitting in the Crown Court. In addition, honorary recorders who are also senior circuit judges are addressed in court as \"My Lord/Lady\" (as for a High Court Judge) instead of \"Your Honour\" (as for other circuit judges, including senior circuit judges who are not honorary recorders). In the law reports and in court lists an honorary recorder is usually styled \"The Recorder of X\".\n\nSince 1971 the term \"Recorder\" has also been used for a part-time judicial appointment in England and Wales, providing part-time experience of judicial office. The part-time appointees were initially designated \"Assistant Recorder\", with a view to promotion to full \"Recorder\". Appointments are no longer made to the position of Assistant Recorder.\n\nAppointments are made by the Crown by Royal Warrant, on the recommendation of the Lord Chancellor. Since 2006 the Lord Chancellor's recommendations are based upon an independent appointments process by the Judicial Appointments Commission.\nEligibility is restricted to barristers or solicitors of at least seven years' standing. A Recorder, when acting as such, has all the powers of a Circuit Judge and may sit in the Crown Court or in the County Court. A Recorder sitting in the Crown Court or County Court is addressed as \"Your Honour\" (save in the Central Criminal Court (or Old Bailey) where all judges are addressed as \"My Lord (or Lady)\"). If appointed to do so under section 9(1) of the Senior Courts Act 1981, a Recorder may sit as a part-time High Court Judge.\n\nA Recorder is paid a daily fee and is expected to sit as a judge for between three and six weeks a year.\n\nThe Recorder of Dublin was the principal magistrate for the city of Dublin until the office was abolished in 1924. The judicial offices of Recorder of Belfast and Recorder of Derry still exist. There were also Recorders of Cork and Galway.\n\nHong Kong operates a system of appointing part-time recorders similar to that in England & Wales except that recorders are appointed to the High Court of Hong Kong and have the same powers as a full judge when sitting. The qualification for appointment is the same as that for High Court Judge: that is, having practised as a barrister or solicitor in a common law jurisdiction for more than 10 years.\n\nIn some U.S. and Canadian jurisdictions, the Recorder's Court is a local court of limited jurisdiction, most often hearing misdemeanors, traffic violations, and other petty criminal offenses. The Recorder of New York City was one of the judges of the Court of General Sessions (the local court of general jurisdiction on criminal cases) and presided over most murder trials in New York City.\n\nIn historic times, the recorder was the chancellor or vizier of the kingdom. He brought all weighty matters under the notice of the king, such as complaints, petitions, and wishes of subjects or foreigners. He also drew up papers for the king's guidance, and prepared drafts of the royal will for the scribes. All treaties came under his oversight; and he had the care of the national archives or records, to which, as royal historiographer, he added the current annals of the kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11887871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11887871", "title": "Red Shirts (Mexico)", "text": "Red Shirts (Mexico)\n\nThe Red Shirts () were a paramilitary organization, existing in the 1930s, founded by the atheist and anti-Catholic anticlerical Governor of Tabasco, Mexico, Tomás Garrido Canabal during his second term. As part of their attempt to destroy the Church, they systematically destroyed church buildings. The group, created to carry out the governor's orders, takes its name from its uniform of red shirts, black pants, and black and red military caps and it consisted of men aged 15 to 30.\n\nApart from religion, the Red Shirts also attacked other things they considered to be detrimental to progress, most notably alcohol. They have been described as \"fascist\", however, the anthem of the Red Shirts was the Internationale, widely considered to be the socialist anthem, and Garrido named one of his sons after Vladimir Lenin, a Marxist and anti-fascist and also considered himself a Marxist Bolshevik.\n\nSome scholars have argued that Garrido's authoritarian policies were more akin to European right-wing dictatorships, though he wished to turn the traditionally conservative state of Tabasco into a socialist model and fought for socialist causes. Tabasco has been called a \"socialist tyranny\" by Martin C. Needler, Dean of the School of International Studies at the University of the Pacific in California. Garrido also invited the First Congress of Socialist Students to meet in the state of Tabasco and created a form of socialist education which he termed \"Rationalist\". \n\nThe Red Shirts have been described as \"shock troops of indoctrination for the intense campaign against 'God and religion.'\" The Red Shirts were also used against the Cristeros revolt, an uprising against the persecution of Catholics by the government of Plutarco Calles. The Red Shirts practiced socialist marriages, and two Red Shirt members, José Correa and Victoria Ley, pronounced their own vows:\n\nAnd another two members sent out invitations:\n\nThe Red Shirts celebrated the death of Christ on Good Friday 1935 and the connected League against Religious Fanaticism had their own radio show call \"Anti-Fanatic Hour\", which was made up of 12 parts, including the \"Hymn To The Socialist School\", the song \"Anti-Alcoholic Protest\" and six speeches (including one on \"The Class Struggle\"). \n\nIn 1934 Garrido was named secretary of Agriculture by the new president Lázaro Cárdenas, hoping to contain the Red Shirts that way. However, Garrido took the Red Shirts with him to Mexico City at the National Autonomous University of Mexico to intervene in student politics.\n\nOn December 30, 1934, the Red Shirts opened fired on Catholic exiles who were seeking to return to Tabasco as they were leaving Mass at the Immaculate Conception Church in Coyoacán, killing five and wounding many others. Garrido sent the murderers a case of Champagne in jail and declared that they were under his protection.\n\nIn 1935, after he ordered his Red Shirts to kill Catholic activists in Mexico City who were seeking to return to Tabasco, Garrido was forced to step down and into exile in Costa Rica. His paramilitary groups, including the Camisas Rojas, were subsequently disbanded.\n\nThe Red Shirts hunt for a priest from Concepción, Tabasco, in Graham Greene's 1940 novel \"The Power and the Glory\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56841586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56841586", "title": "Robert Vadra DLF land grab scam", "text": "Robert Vadra DLF land grab scam\n\nRobert Vadra DLF land grab scam case The Robert Vadra DLF land grab scam is a case related to 50-acre land grab in 2013 in Amipur village of Haryana during the Congress' Bhupinder Singh Hooda government, for which Robert Vadra, Hooda and DLF are being investigated by the CBI (c. December 2017). Hooda's generosity towards land sharks and builders caused huge losses to farmers and Haryana Government. Consequently, there are Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiries and court cases against him related to shady land deals. Those deals include the allotment of a highly subsidised land and change in land use license for his relatives and influential friends connected to Indian National Congress, such Sonia Gandhi's son-in-law Robert Vadra. Vadra made illegal gains of over INR50 crore from this land deal within few months in 2008. CBI has filed a 80,000 page long chargesheet in the court related to this case and Gurugram-Manesar IMT land scam case.\n\nThere are a total of 6 CBI cases and several other vigilance department investigations against Hooda underway. Central Bureau of Investigation is investigating several scams, mostly related to illegal land grab, that took place during his rule in Haryana. These investigations include the Gurugram-Manesar IMT land scam, Gurugram Rajiv Gandhi Trust land grab scam, Sonepat-Kharkhoda IMT land scam case, Garhi Sampla Uddar Gagan land scam, Panchkula-HUDA Industrial plots allotment scam, AJL-National Herald Panchkula land grab scam, Haryana Forestry scam case and Haryana Raxil drug purchase scam. He has been already chargesheeted in the Manesar-Gurugram land scam, while other cases are still under investigation (c. March 2018). Hooda was acquiring land from poor, illiterate farmers at a low rate in the name of \"public interest\" only to later license this to builders after granting out-of-turn favors that helped the land value increase exponentially. During his 10-year rule as Chief Minister, Hooda, licensed a massive 24,825 acres of land compared to just 8,550.32 acres by successive Chief Ministers in the 23 years preceding Hooda rule.\n\nBuilders coerce farmers to sell their land by getting the government to use the Section 4 of the land law to have a government notification issued to the farmer that their land is required for the \"public purpose\". Builders try to acquire this land by offering a small premium above the government’s rate for the acquisition of the land. If landowners farmers still resist the sale, then Section 6 of land law is applied by declaring the government's intention to acquire land, which forces the reluctant farmers to sell the land to builders at small premium. Once the land is acquired by the builders, government cancels the acquisition process and releases the land to new build owners, along with the change in land use permission to build residential and industrial building on the farm land. This results in steep rise in the land prices, resulting in massive gains for the builders, opportunity cost loss to the farmers and land tax revenue loss to the government. Robert Vadra and DLF were the beneficiary builders in Hooda's regime.\n\nVadra made an illegal profit of more than INR50 crore after buying 3 acre land for INR 7 crore and by onselling it to DLF for INR 58 crore after a few months after Hooda's Indian National Congress government had granted a Change in Land Use license to convert its usage from agriculture to commercial. vadra has bought properties using unsecured loans from DLF. After Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government came to power in Haryana, the \"Justice Dhingra Commission\" was formed in 2015 to investigate the scam. Dhings Commission indicted Hooda. Dingra Commission's report states that there was collusion aimed at benefiting Vadra’s company Skylight Hospitality, and it sought further inquiry. Consequently, the case was handed over to CBI for the further investigation.\n\nCase is currently under investigation by the CBI, who has filed 80,000 pages long chargesheet in the court.\n"}
{"id": "39398417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39398417", "title": "Sergei Alexeyev", "text": "Sergei Alexeyev\n\nSergei Sergeyevich Alexeyev (28 July 1924 – 12 May 2013) was a Russian legal scholar and politician. He was the first and only chair of the USSR Committee for Constitutional Supervision (in 1990-1991). Later, he was one of the authors of the Constitution of Russia of 1993.\n\nOn 12 May 2013 Alexeyev died of a heart attack.\n"}
{"id": "23440225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23440225", "title": "Strong-basis-in-evidence standard", "text": "Strong-basis-in-evidence standard\n\nIn United States law, \"City of Richmond v. J.A. Croson Co.\" (1989) established the basic principle that a governmental actor must provide a strong basis in evidence for its conclusion that remedial action is necessary.\n\nThe application of this rule has produced conflicting results. Unfortunately, \"Croson\" did not offer guidance as to what amount and type of factual showing would provide a strong basis in evidence that discrimination existed in a particular industry.\n\nIn order to uphold an affirmative action program under strict scrutiny, there must exist a \"strong basis in evidence\" of past discrimination by the specific entity to support the conclusion that remedial action is necessary. A generalized assertion that there has been past discrimination in an entire industry will not be enough to justify a program under strict scrutiny. The government must have actively discriminated in its award of contracts or employment or have been a passive participant in a system of racial exclusion practiced by elements of a local industry.\n\nThe most probative type of evidence seems to be statistical data showing \"gross statistical disparities between the proportion of minorities hired... and the proportion of minorities willing and able to do the work.\" In government contracting cases, this is often shown through the use of a disparity index, which is a comparison between the share of contracts awarded to minority contractors and the percentage of qualified minority-owned firms in the local population that do such work. In addition, while the combination of \"convincing anecdotal and statistical evidence is potent,\" anecdotal evidence, by itself, will rarely suffice to justify an affirmative action program evaluated under strict scrutiny.\n\n"}
{"id": "2305442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2305442", "title": "Supreme Court (Hong Kong)", "text": "Supreme Court (Hong Kong)\n\nThe Supreme Court of Hong Kong () was the highest court in Hong Kong prior to the transfer of sovereignty of Hong Kong from the United Kingdom to the People's Republic of China in 1997 and heard cases of first instance and appeals from the District and Magisrates Courts as well as certain tribunals. The Supreme Court was made up of the High Court of Justice (High Court) and the Court of Appeal.\n\nOn 1 July 1997, the Supreme Court became the High Court which is made up of the Court of First Instance and the Court of Appeal.\n\nThe Supreme Court was established in 1844 after Hong Kong became a British Crown colony under the Treaty of Nanjing. The first sitting of the court was on 1 October 1844 presided over by the first Chief Justice, John Walter Hulme.\n\nFor almost 70 years after establishment of the court, there was no Court of Appeal in Hong Kong. Appeals were either by way or re-hearing or direct to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. From 1913, appeals were heard by a Full Court made up of 3 judges. From 1913 to 1943, a judge of the British Supreme Court for China in Shanghai was eligible to sit on the Full Court. In the 1910s and 1920s, a Shanghai judge would regularly travel to Hong Kong to sit on the Full Court. Sir Havilland de Sausmarez, a judge of the Shanghai court, was the President of the Full Court from 1910 to 1920. From 1926 to 1941, a judge of the Hong Kong Supreme Court also sat on the full court of the British Supreme Court for China.\n\nThe Court of Appeal was established in 1976. Appeals from the Court of Appeal and Full Court and, certain criminal appeals from the High Court, lay to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the United Kingdom. In order to appeal to the Privy Council, leave to appeal was required either from the court appealed from or the Privy Council.\n\nAfter the transfer of sovereignty the Supreme Court was renamed as the High Court and the High Court of the former Supreme Court was renamed the Court of First Instance. Appeals from the Court of Appeal (and where there is such a direct appeal, the Court of First Instance) are now heard by the Court of Final Appeal which was established on 1 July 1997.\n\nFor a list of former Chief Justices of Hong Kong, please see Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Hong Kong\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34978036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34978036", "title": "Tax anticipation notes", "text": "Tax anticipation notes\n\nTax anticipation notes are notes issued by states or municipalities to finance current operations before tax revenues are received in the United States. When the issuer collects the taxes, the proceeds are then used to retire debt. The interest income is exempt from federal income tax for the recipient—a treatment similar to that for interest income from municipal bonds. Tax anticipation notes are short term notes, issued at a discount, with a maturity period usually less than a year or a stated future date. Tax anticipation notes are used by municipalities to bridge funding gaps.\n\nIn the U.S. state of California, Revenue Anticipation Notes (RANS) are issued and paid back within a fiscal year, while Revenue Anticipation Warrants (RAWS) are issued on a fiscal year and paid back the following fiscal year.\n"}
{"id": "11474615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11474615", "title": "Telecine (copying)", "text": "Telecine (copying)\n\nThe term telecine refers both to a film-to-tape transferring machine, as well as the process by which film is transferred to tape (or directly to a digital file). The telecine process is frequently used by filmmakers to transfer production footage to video, which can then be captured by various non-linear digital editing systems (e.g., Final Cut Pro, Avid, etc.).\n\nThe term may also refer to a form of copying of movies (normally without authorization from the copyright holder) created using a telecine machine, as opposed to recording the projected image with a video camera (the camera method with a direct audio source is called a tele\"sync\"). Since this process requires both access to a print of the movie on film and expensive equipment, telecine bootlegs are less common than camera bootlegs.\n\nThe term is also often seen used as in the naming of bootleg movie releases. A naming scheme would look something like this: Movie.title.year-of-production.TELECINE.Codec-Groupname. Alternatively some groups simply use the TC tag instead. The quality of a good telecine is generally comparable to a DVD without any post-processing. This has motivated movie studios to develop countermeasures, such as Coded Anti-Piracy (CAP) to track the source of telecine copies in the hope of identifying the person responsible for the copy.\n"}
{"id": "38653951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38653951", "title": "The Gift: Imagination and the Erotic Life of Property", "text": "The Gift: Imagination and the Erotic Life of Property\n\nThe Gift: Imagination and the Erotic Life of Property is a 1983 book by Lewis Hyde in which he examines the importance of gifts, their flow and movement and the impact that the modern market place has had on the circulation of gifts.\n\nPart of part I, \"A Theory of Gifts\", was originally published as \"The Gift Must Always Move\" in \"Co-Evolution Quarterly\" No. 35 in fall 1982.\n\nThe book has been re-published with alternate subtitles:\n\nThe twenty-fifth anniversary 2007 edition has a new preface and a new afterword.\n\nIt has been translated into several languages:\n\n"}
{"id": "2302725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302725", "title": "Tonnage and poundage", "text": "Tonnage and poundage\n\nTonnage and Poundage were certain duties and taxes first levied in Edward II's reign on every tun (cask) of imported wine, which came mostly from Spain and Portugal, and on every pound weight of merchandise exported or imported. Traditionally tonnage and poundage was granted by Parliament to the king for life until the reign of Charles I. Tonnage and poundage were swept away by the Customs Consolidation Act of 1787.\n\nCharles I's first Parliament, known as the Useless Parliament, broke with tradition and granted the king tonnage and poundage for a year rather than life out of concern over the manner in which tonnage and poundage's life grant of 1604 had been used by James to justify impositions, which were additional duties imposed on certain items. This restriction was seen as a provocative step by Parliament as it was one of the King's main sources of revenue, and Parliament intended the one-year limit to curb Charles' autonomy by forcing him to request money from Parliament every year thereafter. Although Parliament passed this bill, George Villiers, 1st Duke of Buckingham led a successful effort in the House of Lords to block it. As a result, Parliament granted Charles no tonnage and poundage rights at all, which, combined with Parliament's efforts to impeach the Duke of Buckingham, led to Charles' first Parliament being dissolved.\n\nCharles, however, continued to collect unauthorised tonnage and poundage duties, and this action became a chief complaint of Charles' failed Parliament of 1629. When Charles moved to adjourn the Parliament, members held the speaker, John Finch, in his seat until three resolutions could be read, one of which declared anyone who paid unauthorised tonnage and poundage to be a betrayer and enemy of England.\n\nCharles I's levying of tonnage and poundage without parliamentary sanction continued to be one of the complaints of his Long Parliament. The refusal of and subsequent disputes about tonnage and poundage rights is seen as one of the many events bearing responsibility for the English Civil War.\n\n"}
{"id": "160447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160447", "title": "Universal Declaration of the Rights of Peoples", "text": "Universal Declaration of the Rights of Peoples\n\nThe Universal Declaration of the Rights of Peoples was first drafted and elaborated during three round-table conferences that were organized by the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization (UNPO) Tartu Coordination Office on 29–30 August 1998; 31 October – 1 November 1998, and 16–17 April 1999 in Tartu and Otepää, Estonia.\n\nMore than forty people participated in the discussions and hundreds of formulations of statements were considered. As a result, the draft of the document was adopted simultaneously in three languages (English, Russian, and Estonian) at the last session on 17 April 1999 in Tartu.\n\nThis document is not to be confused with the Universal Declaration on the Rights of Peoples adopted in Algiers, 4 July 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "11961299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11961299", "title": "Wagoner Doctrine", "text": "Wagoner Doctrine\n\nThe Wagoner Doctrine is an American 2nd Circuit legal principle applying the longstanding common law \"in pari delicto\" (roughly translated \"in equal fault\") rule in the bankruptcy setting.\n\nThough controversial due to its willingness to bar recovery in what is typically considered an equitable proceeding (i.e. bankruptcy) and thus not well accepted in other circuits, Wagoner holds that \"a claim against a third party for defrauding a corporation with the cooperation of corporate management accrues to the creditors, and not to the guilty corporation.\"\n\nSee \"in pari delicto\" for more information.\n"}
