{"id": "50757964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50757964", "title": "Agua del Pueblo", "text": "Agua del Pueblo\n\nAgua del Pueblo (AdP) is a private, non-profit, non-denominational and Guatemalan organization. AdP has completed more than 900 integrated rural water, sanitation and community development projects serving more than 500,000 Guatemalan citizens.\n\nA team of young, international volunteers founded \"Agua del Pueblo\" in 1972 in San Lucas Tolimán, Sololá, Guatemala. Agua del Pueblo (AdP) is a private, non-profit, non-denominational organization. Researchers have studied the impact of AdP projects on economic development, community development and health. Agua del Pueblo's headquarters is in Quetzaltenango, Guatemala, and has regional offices in Coban Alta Verapaz and Poptun, Peten.\n\nAdP's prime directive is to promote, advise, direct and generate financing for non-profit activities related to community development and the introduction of potable water, latrines and other aspects of environmental sanitation in rural and urban communities. AdP’s aims are to: a) Build potable water and sanitation systems; b) Promote rural and urban development. c) Cooperate with any organization in drinking water, sanitation, education and community development, including training of appropriate personnel. d) Research the impacts of such projects on public health and economic development and e) Participate in international, state, municipal or private projects with similar goals.\n\nAdP focuses on the poorest of the poor throughout the highlands of Mayan Guatemala. For that reason, AdP’s board prioritized the departments of San Marcos, Huehuetenango, Quiché, Totonicapan, Quetzaltenango, Solola, Retalhuleu, Suchitepequez, Chimaltenango, Alta Verapaz, Baja Verapaz and Peten. AdP views water and sanitation projects as a means to the end of conscious-level raising and rural development. AdP favors projects based on renewable energy with minimal operation and maintenance requirements. Education and community organization form the foundation of AdP’s work. \n\nThe Guatemalan government incorporated the Association of Agua del Pueblo on May 22, 1981 and registered the Association on 6 July 1981. The Guatemalan “Association of Agua del Pueblo” is included in the Registry of the Municipality of Quetzaltenango, Guatemala, Book 1 NGO.\n\nThe State of Missouri (USA) incorporated People’s Consultants – Agua del Pueblo-USA (web site) in 1973. AdP’S founders established the People’s Consultants to support AdP’s work around the world. The US Internal Revenue Service recognizes the People’s Consultants as a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization.\n\nIn 1972, volunteers from the San Lucas Mission, the Maryknoll’s (Father Bill Woods and Dave Hennessey’s) Ixcan Project and San Carlos University’s school of social work (Dr. Sayra Cabrera) founded Agua del Pueblo. Father John Goggin sponsored AdP’s first water project in Tzalamabaj, San Lucas Toliman. Sr. Benito Pic directed the project. Sr. Pic’s son, Don Oscar Pic Solís, eventually became the first re-elected mayor of San Lucas Toliman.\n\nMonsenor Gregory Schaffer led AdP’s next project in Pampojila and Panimaquib was one of the first rural pumping water supply project in Guatemala (Karp, Cabrera and Cabrera). The project had a significant impact on improving the plight of indentured servants in Guatemala’s south coast. Sr. Andres Tos Toy led the first successful strike against a large absentee landlord (Don Oscar Dias, owner of San Andres Pampojila).\n\nAgua del Pueblo has:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "479221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479221", "title": "All Saints (TV series)", "text": "All Saints (TV series)\n\nAll Saints is an Australian television medical drama that first screened on the Seven Network on 24 February 1998. Set in the fictional All Saints Western General Hospital, it focused on the staff of Ward 17 until its closure in 2004, which is when the focus changed and began following the staff of the Emergency Department. It was produced by John Holmes alongside Jo Porter, MaryAnne Carroll and Di Drew. The final episode aired on 27 October 2009, completing its recording-breaking 12-year run.\n\n\"All Saints\" follows the lives of the staff at All Saints Western General Hospital. Until its closure in 2004, the show primarily focused on the staff in Ward 17. Known as the \"garbage ward\" as it took all the overflow from the other wards, Ward 17 was run by compassionate nun, Sister Terri Sullivan (Georgie Parker). Her staff included her nurses Connor Costello (Jeremy Cumpston), Von Ryan (Judith McGrath), Bronwyn Craig (Libby Tanner), Jared Levine (Ben Tari) and Stephanie Markham (Kirrily White) and her ward clerk Jaz Hillerman (Sam Healy). Luke Forlano (Martin Lynes) and Peter Morrison (Andrew McKaige) were doctors who frequently worked with Terri and her staff. Ben Markham (Brian Vriends) was an ambulance officer who worked closely with Luke, despite their rivalry. Bronwyn left Ward 17 and became an ambulance officer at the end of 1998 but returned to the ward full-time at the end of season 3.\n\nAfter the death of Dr. Mitch Stevens (Erik Thomson) and the departure of Bron Craig (Libby Tanner) in 2003, the producers decided to do something in response to considerable drop in ratings and to prolong the life of the series.\n\nIn February 2004, John Holmes told The Age journalist Debi Enker that \"All Saints\" would be undergoing \"major surgery\" when the focus shifted from Ward 17 to the Emergency Department. He also stated that while four familiar faces will be leaving, new characters will be introduced to fill the void. Holmes recalled a statement that he made in May 2003 in which he said, \"we [myself and Seven script executive Bevan Lee] were seeing the scripts and watching episodes and we were feeling that there was a little bit of a sameness in it. We started to think, 'Don't know about this. Sixth year. Maybe we've had a few too many people through the door of Ward 17 on a trolley and had the 'Hi, I'm Von, I'm your nurse. Room Three, thanks Sterlo.'\" After tossing up between cancelling the show and using it as the foundation of a spin-off series, Holmes and Lee decided to rejuvenate the show by changing the setting. Ward 17 would then close and the show would be relocated to the Emergency Department.\n\nAs a result of the shift, several cast members decided to leave the show. Paula Morgan (Jenni Baird), Luke Forlano (Martin Lynes), Alex Kearns (Fletcher Humphrys) and Sterling McCormack (Henry Nixon) were all written out of the show. Former \"Always Greener\" star John Howard signed a three-year deal and was added to the cast as the cranky head of Emergency, Dr. Frank Campion. Other new faces included Wil Traval as Dr. Jack Quade, Mark Priestley and Natalie Saleeba as nurses Dan Goldman and Jessica Singleton and Alexandra Davies as ambulance officer Cate McMasters.\n\nIn 2009 another attempt to stem the softening ratings and add a bit of excitement to the series, Seven Network executives decided to rejuvenate again, introducing a medical response unit to deal with tricky rescues which involved a helicopter going to remote locations to rescue patients who needed assistance. They would then bring those patients back to the ED and the staff there would assist in their treatment. Along with the addition of the new \"department\" the show was also renamed to \"All Saints: Medical Response Unit\", the introduction of Mirrah Foulkes and the new MRU proved to lift the ratings substantially, but then levelled out at where they were prior to the revamp.\n\nIn June 2009, after months of rumours that the cancellation of \"All Saints\" was imminent, a spokeswoman from the Seven Network informed The Daily Telegraph that the episode order had been trimmed. Season twelve of \"All Saints\" would screen 24 episodes instead of the usual 40 episodes and that production would cease in August instead of November.\n\nIn July 2009, exactly one month later after the first announcement, Tim Worner, Seven's Director of Programming at the time announced that \"All Saints\" had been cancelled. He told Michael Idato of the Sydney Morning Herald, \"\"All Saints\" is a show which Seven and viewers have loved. However, an audience shift and increased production costs are behind this tough decision.\" He also informed Idato that the episode order trim had been reverted and the season would complete a 37 episode order, finishing on episode 493. It was reported after the announcement that since the introduction of the MRU in 2009 it inflated the cost of each episode to $500,000. Many people still argue as to why the MRU was introduced in the first place or should have been removed instead of axing the show if the network was wanting to cut costs.\nIn the Feb/Mar 2010 GQ magazine in 2010, Tim Worner said his one regret was \"Axing All Saints. But it was the right call at the time and we have two new drama projects in development.\"\n\nOn 20 April 2004, episode 265, \"Brave New World\" aired, which saw the introduction of John Howard's character, Frank Campion. It was also the first episode to be set in the Emergency Department. This episode attracted lots of controversy.\n\nOne patient came into the triage and tried to get help, but he was told to wait. Later on, Nelson heard a phone ring coming from the patient and asked him to turn off the phone. It was later hinted that he had been using the phone to masturbate and it had gotten stuck in his rectum.\n\nThe end of the episode saw Frank go introduce himself to Terri (Georgie Parker), who was recovering from heart surgery. During a heated argument about staff members, Frank blatantly said to Terri, \"if you ever use your influence with your previous employees to white-ant me again, you will never work in Emergency.\" Before Terri could get a word in, Frank added, \"can I make it any fucking clearer?\"\n\nThe next day, Channel Seven announced that they had received more than 100 phone calls in Melbourne alone. Parker told the media, \"it's a good response because it's not about the shock words—we've sworn on the show before—but because people clearly feel really protective about Terri. It's like they really feel for her as a character and don't like her being under attack by a very confronting man. It's great to know they care for her so much.\"\n\nOn 22 April, the network issued a statement that read, \"within an M classification code, coarse language is permitted provided it is appropriate to the storyline or program context.\" An apology was not made.\n\nOn 27 May 2008, episode 432, \"Never Tell\" aired.\n\nThis episode saw a woman pregnant from an incestuous relationship with her brother, told her child may have Down syndrome as a result.\n\nLeading geneticist Dr. David Amor of Murdoch Children's Research Institute stated, \"There is absolutely no increase in the risk of Down syndrome for the offspring of incestuous relationships.\"\n\nDown Syndrome Australia considered legal action, complained to the media regulator, the Australian Communications and Media Authority and called for a boycott by the show's advertisers if an apology and correction was not aired on All Saints the following week.\n\nSeven responded with, \"\"All Saints\" values its audience and has the greatest respect for their commitment to the program. Without reservation, to any members of the audience who have found an element of a recent story offensive, Channel Seven apologises.\"\n\nThe longer-than-usual 49-minute episode aired at 9:30pm on Tuesday, 27 October 2009. The episode, unlike those in the rest of the season, went back to basics and focused more on the lives of the nurses and doctors as they tended to patients.\n\nThe episode saw Judith McGrath's character, Von Ryan tending to a teenage girl who comes into the ED and gives birth without knowing she was pregnant. Tammy Macintosh and John Howard finished their seven- and five-year reigns as Dr. Charlotte Beaumont and Dr. Frank Campion respectively, caring for a woman played by Heather Mitchell who had cystic fibrosis. Ella Scott Lynch and Jonathan Wood left the show on a high with their characters, Claire Anderson and Elliott Parker treating a man (Luke Pegler) with a disease consistent with diabetes and promiscuity.\n\nSecretly, Von decides to resign from All Saints, telling only Frank that she wouldn't be returning. He offers to take her out for dinner, but instead plans a surprise farewell dinner for her. Throughout the dinner, Gabrielle (Virginia Gay) and Steve (Jack Campbell) decide to raise their child together and get back together, Bart (Andrew Supanz) proposes to his girlfriend Amy (Alix Bidstrup) and Charlotte and Adam (Kip Gamblin) share an intense moment.\n\nAt the table, Von is pressured to make a speech by her colleagues and friends and reluctantly, she does, uttering her famous line: \"I spent a lot of time at All Saints and I'd just like to thank you all for your loyalty, your support and love. Oh bugger this, here's to us.\" She raises her glass and toasts.\n\nThe finale is capped off by a montage of scenes from over the show's twelve-year run, including Mitch's final scene, the closure of Ward 17 and Bron & Ben's wedding, all to The Beatles song, \"In My Life\".\n\nThe final scene sees Frank raise his glass at Von, who raises hers and smiles.\n\nThe first opening theme song for \"All Saints\" began with several deep breaths and then went into a tune played by a saxophone. The melody bears a striking similarity to \"Fly By Night\", the first track on Jethro Tull frontman Ian Anderson's 1983 debut album \"Walk Into Light\". This played over the top of several shots of the cast members. Actors names were in the font Zurich Extra Condensed and underlined. Intercut were shots of hands, various medical equipment and medicine.\n\nThe second opening theme song was first used when the opening was upgraded in mid-season two. The same song was used however drums were added to give it more of an authentic sound. The shots of cast changed and names of actors and their characters were now present. The font remained the same. Shots of hands, medical vehicles and equipment were also present.\n\nThe first major overhaul of the opening happened in season four, when the titles were completely changed. They now began with several deep breaths over a blue screen with a vision of hands in the background. The screen was set up with a slide of the actor in the centre, with deep blue all around and medical notation. The theme was more stringy and only involved a small saxophone part. Medical crosses, bottles and syringes were present in the opening.\n\nThe second major overhaul of the opening happened in season seven, when the whole layout and font used were completely changed to mark the revamp of the show and its change of focus to the Emergency Department. The basic undertone of the theme was still there, however another saxophone overtone was added tho give the theme more authenticity. The images were also upgraded to include ambulances, surgical equipment and people rushing around in the background. The font changed and actors and characters were now in the font Imprint MT Shadow. This set of opening titles continues until the end of season eight.\n\nAt the beginning of season nine, the opening titles credits were ditched and the main cast were listed at the last of every episode with the names returning to their original format and font. This continues until the final episode. In seasons ten and eleven, the actor’s name and their corresponding character name flew in from either side, however this idea was dumped when the show returned for its final season.\n\nAn intertitle card appeared before every ad break in season nine, however the show returned to fading out in the tenth and eleventh seasons.\n\nAt the beginning of the eleventh season, a new title card premiered and this appeared at the start of every episode.\n\nThis title card was refurbished for the twelfth and final season to coincide with the change of name. This title card saw the show out.\n\nThe show has been nominated for fifty six Logie awards and won nine.\n\n\"All Saints\" has won two AFI Awards from the Australian Film Institute and has been nominated for various others.\nSeasons 1 to 5 were released by EMI Australia in 2005 through 2007. EMI lost the DVD rights in 2007, therefore seasons 1 to 5 were discontinued.\n\nUniversal Sony Pictures Home Entertainment Australia were later awarded DVD rights to the show, releasing seasons 8 to 12 in 2009 and 2010. The two \"missing seasons\" - seasons 6 and 7 - were released on 2 March 2011. All 12 seasons are being re-released on DVD in Australia in 2018/2019 by Via Vision Entertainment and Madman Entertainment with the first 3 seasons being released as \"All Saints Collection One\" and available from September 2018. With \"All Saints Collection Two\" to follow in November 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "39249636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39249636", "title": "Ana Bedran-Russo", "text": "Ana Bedran-Russo\n\nAna Bedran-Russo (née Ana Karina Bedran de Castro) is an associate professor in restorative dentistry at the University of Illinois at Chicago College of Dentistry.\n\nBedran-Russo previously taught at the University of Campinas's Piracicaba School of Dentistry in Brazil, and at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.\n\nAs a researcher, she holds many research grants including two from the National Institutes of Health K-08 grant, \"Stability of cross-linked dentin and its clinical application\" and R01 grant \"biomodficationn of dentin structure\", as well as a Wach Fund Grant from the College, \"Long-term effect of cross linkers on dentin bonded interfaces\". She has over 65 scientific peer reviewed paper and over 100 abstracts..\n\nShe is expanding the research of biomaterials and tooth-restoration interfaces using biomimetics and tissue engineering. Her work is focused on tooth properties and the improvement or development of new restorative materials. Bedran-Russo's research regarding Biomodification of dentin using bioactive agents has potential impact to introduce novel bioinspired dental therapies to prevent caries and to develop long lasting tooth colored restorations.\n\nOriginally from Brazil, Bedran-Russo earned her DDS at the Aracatuba School of Dentistry in São Paulo; her MS in operative dentistry/clinical sciences at Piracicaba; and her PhD in dental material sciences at Piracicaba. She came to the United States in 2002 as a visiting research scholar to develop research in biomaterials at University of North Carolina. Her husband, Stephen Russo, is a periodontist.\n\n"}
{"id": "16818556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16818556", "title": "Association of Osteopathic Directors and Medical Educators", "text": "Association of Osteopathic Directors and Medical Educators\n\nThe Association of Osteopathic Directors and Medical Educators (AODME) is a professional association of deans and presidents of osteopathic medical schools, residency program directors, and the leadership of the American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine (AACOM). The organization's headquarters are located in Chicago, Illinois. January 2018 marked the beginning of the integration of AODME within AACOM. The integration bridges the gap between undergraduate and graduate medical education (GME) by providing leadership for the full continuum of osteopathic medical education. As part of the integration AODME will be renamed as the Assembly of Osteopathic Graduate Medical Educators (AOGME). \n"}
{"id": "52342294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52342294", "title": "Cannabis in the Philippines", "text": "Cannabis in the Philippines\n\nThe cultivation and use of cannabis in the Philippines is illegal under Republic Act 9165 or the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002. As the Philippines is a signatory to the 1961 United NationsSingle Convention on Narcotic Drugs, Cannabis is classified as a Schedule I drug, which limits its use to medical and scientific purposes. Marijuana is the second most used drug in the Philippines, after \"shabu\" (methamphetamine), and most cultivation in the country is for local consumption. Cannabis is cultivated mostly in the remote, mountainous regions of Luzon and Mindanao\n\nCannabis has been illegal in the Philippines since 1972 by virtue of Republic Act No. 6425, or the \"Dangerous Drugs Act of 1972\". RA6425 classified marijuana as a prohibited drug, and detailed out punishments for the importation, sale, manufacture, cultivation, possession, and use of the drug, as well as possession of any drug-related paraphernalia. RA6425 also created the Dangerous Drugs Board, giving it jurisdiction over drug-related cases. In 2002, the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002 was signed, repealing RA6425. RA9165 also enabled the creation of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency, which handles the implementation and enforcement of policies and strategies made by the Dangerous Drugs Board.\n\nUnder the current law, the importation, sale, maintenance of a den, dive or resort, manufacture, use, and cultivation of marijuana and marijuana-related products shall be met with life imprisonment and a fine.\n\nIn 2015, the Dangerous Drugs Board estimated, based on admission data in drug rehabilitation centers, that around 25% of center clients use marijuana.\n\nArrests for marijuana have been steady in recent years. In 2016, the PDEA eradicated a total of 337 marijuana sites. In the first seven months of 2015, PDEA reported conducting 22 successful cannabis eradication operations, resulting in the destruction of 117 growing sites and the seizure of cannabis valued at approximately 3.5 million USD. That same year PDEA eradicated a total of 286 marijuana sites. In 2014, the PDEA reported that 8.9% of all drug seizures they made that year involved marijuana, and that they eradicated a total of 506 growing sites, the largest in recent years.\n\nA pro-medical marijuana NGO called the \"Philippine Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws\" (PORMAL) seeks to challenge the law in order to legalize its use, however there is opposition from both the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency and senators like Vicente Sotto III. The PDEA claims that marijuana is a gateway drug that can lead to the abuse of harder substances. Senator Sotto has asked PORMAL to submit empirical evidence on the benefits of marijuana use.\n\nOn May 26, 2014, Isabela representative Rodolfo Albano III introduced House Bill No. 4477, known as the \"Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act\" to the 16th Congress of the Philippines, which would legalize the use of medical marijuana. The \"Inquirer\" describes this bill as a \"hotly-debated topic.\" This bill was filed in the Philippine Congress to legalize the use of medical marijuana in 2014. One of the bill's co-authors, Leah Paquiz, said \"We are at this stage, we have Filipinos who need care, we should give them compassionate care - this medical cannabis. There are a lot of medicines, but they are expensive.\" The bill was, however, ultimately not passed during the 16th Congress. Albano has filed the bill during the 17th Congress of the Philippines. The bill is currently under referendum as House Bill 180.\n\nPresident Rodrigo Duterte said during his election campaign that he supported medical marijuana, but that he would leave any decision to the concerned government department.\n"}
{"id": "35337381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35337381", "title": "Carl O. Helvie", "text": "Carl O. Helvie\n\nDr. Carl O. Helvie, R.N., Dr.P.H. is an American registered nurse and Professor Emeritus of Nursing at Old Dominion University. Helvie is known for his development and implementation of the Helvie Energy Theory of Nursing and Health.\n\nAs a lung cancer survivor he has focused on holistic alternative integrative health and wellness interventions. A major part of his career also focused on education, practice and research with homeless and low-income individuals and families. He has published books, articles, and research findings in these three areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "45417880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45417880", "title": "Charles Maclay (anatomist)", "text": "Charles Maclay (anatomist)\n\nCharles Workman Maclay FRCS, FRCSED, FRFPSGLAS (4 November 1913 – 12 April 1978) was a Scottish anatomist and consultant surgeon.\n\nMaclay was born in Glasgow and educated at Glasgow Academy and Strathallan School, Perthshire. At the University of Glasgow he was awarded the Lorimer bursary in anatomy and physiology,\nthe Macleod gold medal in surgery, and the Asher Asher gold medal in diseases of the ear, nose, and throat. Maclay graduated BSc in 1933, MB ChB in 1936, and became FRCS Edinburgh in 1940, FRCS England in 1941 and FRFPS Glasgow in 1943. In 1937, one year after graduation, he became senior demonstrator and lecturer in anatomy at King's College, University of London.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II in 1939, Maclay joined the Royal Army Medical Corps and served as a surgical specialist. On 18 December 1943, he was promoted to lieutenant. Maclay was one of those who took part in the Normandy landings on 6 June 1944. In 1947 he was demobilised with the permanent rank of major. During these years and later, Maclay contributed papers to medical and scientific journals.\n\nMaclay was appointed consultant surgeon to the Boston Combined Hospitals, Lincolnshire in 1948. Driven by an urge to help underprivileged people, he emigrated to South Africa in 1957, where he was senior surgeon at Butterworth, Port Elizabeth and Eshowe hospitals. He was proficient in French and German, had a knowledge of Italian and Afrikaans and over time developed an ability in certain African languages.\n\nIn 1964 Maclay became senior lecturer in anatomy at the Durban Medical School, University of Natal. He accepted the same position at the University of Cape Town in 1970, before returning to the University of Natal in 1974. Maclay evolved a series of diagrams for teaching gross anatomy, neuroanatomy, embryology and a masterpiece of concise instruction in applied anatomy.\n"}
{"id": "46717764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46717764", "title": "Childbirth in Trinidad and Tobago", "text": "Childbirth in Trinidad and Tobago\n\nTrinidad and Tobago is the southernmost country of the West Indies; as of 2013, its adjusted maternal mortality rate is 84 deaths per 100 000 women; the rate is adjusted for underreporting and misclassification by the World Health Organization. The contraceptive rate, that is the percentage of women in union aged 15–49 years currently using contraception, is 42.5%. The fertility rate is 1.8 children per woman. Fourteen weeks of maternity leave with allowances is provided by the government; women typically choose to take this leave after the birth rather than before, to spend time with the newborn.\n\n95.7% of pregnant women have at least 1 prenatal care visit. These visits most commonly occur at the woman’s local clinic. Diabetes and high blood pressure are two of the more serious conditions for pregnant women in Trinidad and Tobago. Often, if women do not have an antenatal visit early enough in their pregnancy, these conditions can be missed, leading to complications during birth. The biggest challenge for prenatal health is maintaining a healthy diet. Caribbean cuisine is mostly highly seasoned, with a high salt content, and, along with the common practice of frying and high saturated fat, this contributes to poor management of diabetes and increased risk of high blood pressure.\n\nFor treatment of their diabetes and high blood pressure, during pregnancy or otherwise, Trinidadians and Tobagonians often view traditional Caribbean medicine as complementary to prescribed medicines. For example, one study found the following plants used among half of Caribbean respondents for diabetes: cerasse/noni/caraili/bitter melon (\"Momordica charantia\"), cinnamon bark and pills (\"Cinnamomum verum\"), mauby bark (\"Colubrina arborescens\"), aloe (\"Aloe vera\", \"Aloe barbadensis\"), bush tea (unspecified medicinal plants) and celery (\"Apium graveolens\"). Cucumber (\"Cucumis sativus\"), garlic (\"Allium sativum\"), and tamarind leaf (\"Tamarindus indica\") were also used to control high blood pressure. These plants were crushed, liquefied, and consumed cold or steeped as a brewed tea. \"Momordica charantia\" was the most popular botanical that participants used to treat type 2 diabetes.\n\nTraditional medicine is also used for childbirth and infertility. One study, which conducted interviews with Trinidadians over a four-year period from 1996-2000, found the use of the following plants for childbirth and infertility: \"Mimosa pudica\", \"Ruta graveolens\", \"Abelmoschus moschatus\", \"Chamaesyce hirta\", \"Cola nitida\", \"Ambrosia cumanenesis\", \"Pilea microphylla\", \"Eryngium foetidum\", \"Aristolochia rugosa\", \"Aristolochia trilobata\", \"Coleus aromaticus\", \"Laportea aestuans\" and \"Vetiveria zizanioides\".\n\nThe adolescent fertility rate in Trinidad and Tobago, as of 2013, is 35.5 births per 1000 women aged 15–19 years. In 2007, a representative sample of all 13- to 15-year-old students in Trinidad and Tobago was surveyed about sexual health: 26.0% of students had sexual intercourse during their life and 13.2% of students had sexual intercourse for the first time before age 13. Male students were significantly more likely than female students to have sexual intercourse (32.0% of all males versus 20.2% of all females) and also to have it for the first time before age 13 (19.9% of all males versus 6.3% of all females). In total, 17.6% of students had sexual intercourse with two or more partners during their life. Male students (23.9%) were significantly more likely than female students (11.4%) to have had multiple partners. Among students who had sexual intercourse during the past 12 months, 59.1% used a condom the last time they had sexual intercourse, but only 22.4% used a condom most of the time or always during the past 12 months.\n\nEven though the above survey shows an early age of initiation of sexual activity and low utilization of contraceptive practices, a 2008 study of the twin island country showed both a decline in adolescent fertility rates as well as adolescent births over the past decade.\n\nIn Trinidad and Tobago the abortion rate is the same as the birth rate; that is there is approximately the same number of abortions per year as births, around 19,000. However, in Trinidad and Tobago, abortion is illegal in cases of incest, rape, social and economic reasons and only legal when the mother’s life is in danger. Annually between 3000-4000 women are treated in the public hospitals for the consequences of unsafe terminations; it is the leading cause of maternal morbidity. Abortion is not openly discussed in Trinidad and Tobago. There is an impression that Trinidadians are greatly opposed to abortion reform law, due in part to certain vocal religious groups; however, a careful survey of 918 citizens conducted in 2005 found that even though almost half of the participants had an unfavorable perception of abortion, more than half of them were in favor of broadening the legal grounds for accessing terminations.\n\nAs for the prevalence rates for sexually transmitted infections: 1.7% of adults aged 15–49 in Trinidad and Tobago have human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) as of 2013.\n\nFrom the most recent study in 2012, 100% of births in Trinidad and Tobago are attended by a health professional. 97.4% of total births take place in an institution. Of total births in Trinidad and Tobago, approximately 2% occur in the home, 83% in public hospitals, 14.7% in private hospitals, and 0.0025% at the Mamatoto Birth Centre. Except for in the case of home births, once labour begins, mothers generally proceed to the hospitals or birth centre as directed by health personnel, usually by telephone.\n\nIn the public hospitals, as the standard of care, midwives attend the delivery of babies. Only in the case of a complicated birth, for example one requiring Cesarean section or suturing, will the obstetrician on staff be called. Cesarean sections are not available on request and the rate in most public hospitals vary from 10-14%, with higher rates occurring in hospitals that receive more referrals. There tends to be a high rate of episiotomies in the public hospitals, as high as 50%. There is limited availability of epidurals in these hospitals and for the most part, natural childbirth takes place. Continuous fetal monitoring technology is not used.\n\nThe public hospitals tend to adhere to several outdated Western medical policies which are not based on current research or empirical evidence according to the Cochrane Library (a database of systematic reviews); for example, labouring women are kept lying down in bed and are not allowed to have a support person, or eat solid foods, and delivery occurs with the women’s legs in stirrups. Even when new policy is made, it is not necessarily practised, as is the case with Mount Hope Medical facility which does have more modern policy to align with the baby-friendly status, but it is not followed well. In all public facilities, labouring women share the same space for the most part, in an open, non air-conditioned floor, with only screens separating them for privacy. Women are moved into a separate room for the delivery. One direct relative may be allowed for the delivery but this person oftentimes has to meet a series of requirements specific to the hospital and can still be denied on the whim of the staff. For example, the San Fernando General Hospital (serving the southern end of the island) permits no relatives in the delivery room; the Sangre Grande Hospital (serving the east end) has a form with rules that must be signed and followed by the partner; and the Port of Spain General Hospital (serving the west end) requires proof of birth classes along with other requirements. Doulas (trained emotional support persons) are not allowed to provide labour support. If the doula is a direct relative, she may accompany the mother for the delivery as the one allowed family member.\n\nIn the private hospitals, babies are delivered solely by obstetricians, and the expectant mothers are attended by nurses, midwives (who essentially act as labour and delivery nurses) and doulas, if specifically hired by the mothers. The total cost to have a vaginal delivery in the private sector is approximately $17,000-20,000 TTD (about $3000 USD) and double that price for a Cesarean section. Certain employers do provide private insurance, but it does not cover a significant portion of this cost to make it an affordable option for most. The private hospitals have similar technology use, as in hospitals in the U.S., for fetal monitoring and pain management. Unlike the public hospitals, epidurals are guaranteed if wanted. Cesarean sections are performed in cases of medical indication and can also be performed on request, though that is rare. The Cesarean section rate in most private facilities is about 30%. Labouring women in private facilities often have more flexibility in what they can do: whether it is eating during labour, moving around, or having numerous support persons with them. In general, labour takes place in a private air conditioned room with family members and a doula if previously arranged by the family.\n\nPlanned births occurring in the home are attended by midwives. To qualify for a home birth, the midwife must approve the birth as low risk with no up front medical indication for need of services unavailable in the home context. As part of the training of midwives in Trinidad and Tobago, all midwifery students must attend at least three home births before their certification is considered complete.\n\nAt the Birth Centre, Mamatoto, the deliveries of babies are attended by midwives following the midwifery model of care. Mothers can labour in whatever position they feel most comfortable, and water, massages, acupressure and doulas are available at every birth for pain management. Over 90% of births are natural vaginal deliveries, requiring no interventions. The center has about a 2% episiotomy rate and limited use of birth technology, though they are adequately prepared for emergencies, with an ambulance paid on retainer to transport mothers to the hospital if need be. Obstetricians and pediatricians are members of the Birth Centre’s board and while they are not usually present for births, they offer advice when required. The Centre attends about 50-70 births annually. Births at Mamatoto cost about $14,000 TTD but there are reduced costs, based on family income, and pro bono services for unemployed or teenage women.\n\nIn general, if a mother has the means, she will choose to deliver her baby in a private facility instead of a public one. In part, this is due to the poor reputation the public hospitals get because of the media’s scandalizing portrayals of maternal deaths. Some mothers might even take out loans, \"baby loans,\" so that they can deliver at private facilities instead of the public ones.\n\nThe afterbirth or placenta in hospitals is discarded as biological waste and there is no particular country-wide ritual observed with it. Newborns, for the most part, remain at the mother’s side after being examined by health professionals. Public hospitals do a better job of preventing the separation of Mother-baby in the hours directly after birth, in part because they have no regular nursery facilities as private hospitals do.\n\nWomen typically stay in the hospital, public or private, for no more than 24 hours after birth. The tendency is towards early discharge due to overcrowding in the public facilities, and due to financial charges in the private facilities. Most hospitals have policy encouraging the initiation of breastfeeding before discharge. However, the early initiation of breastfeeding rate in Trinidad and Tobago is only 41.2% as of 2013; that is the percentage of infants who receive milk from their mother’s breast within an hour of being born. Furthermore, as of 2013, only 12.8% of newborns are exclusively breastfed in the first six months after birth and 83.4% are introduced to solid or semi solid or soft foods in their first six to eight months. In part, this phenomenon might be due to the often-spoken-of belief in Trinidad and Tobago that in order for the baby to sleep properly at night, he/she must be given cereal with his/her milk before bed.\n\nThe under five mortality rate in Trinidad and Tobago is 21 deaths per 1000 live births and the infant mortality is 19 deaths per 1000 live births. The leading cause of death is prematurity. There are only three Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICU) in the country; all three are in separate public health facilities in Trinidad: in Port of Spain, San Fernando and Mount Hope. If there is suspicion that a baby will be born premature, the expectant mother will be referred to one of these hospitals for the delivery. Private facilities have no Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICU). If a newborn is admitted to the NICU, mothers have to adhere to hospital policy which does not allow them to stay overnight with the baby, and requires the pumping of breast milk for the infant.\n\nPostpartum depression is not carefully monitored or measured in the country. As part of the public health facilities, there is a six-week postpartum checkup, during which time this condition can perhaps be detected, but there is little follow up with the mother between discharge and this checkup. Although, if the mother chooses, she can visit a physician in her local health clinic at any time. In the private health facilities, mothers are assigned a specific pediatrician who examines the newborn at birth; this personal physician can be contacted by the mother if she chooses to do so, in regards to postpartum depression. At Mamatoto, discharge typically occurs four hours following birth, after which the health staff call the mother every single day for a week, and then once a week until the six-week postpartum visit. In this way, there is ample follow up to give health personnel the opportunity to ensure the mother’s mental health.\n\nOnce mother and baby are back at home, nuclear and extended family and many community members become involved with the care of the newborn and mother. It is typical for a new mother to either stay with a female relative for a few weeks directly after discharge, or for a female relative to move in with the new mother for a few weeks to help with cooking, cleaning and caring for both mother and baby. Often time, senior females in the family and community are most vocal with their opinions for care, and their advice is generally regarded with respect, though not always enacted. Their advice might take the form of more traditional medicine and folklore. The following are examples of some beliefs: the mole (soft part of the skull) of the baby should be covered with a hat especially during the night, dew fall or rainfall, to prevent the baby from getting sick; coconut oil should be used to massage and stretch the limbs of the newborn; certain amulets and jewelry should be placed on newborn to ward off the \"evil eye\"; small amounts of breast milk may be placed in newborn’s eye to prevent infection; and soursop might be given to promote sleepiness of the newborn. As for the mother, a drink of mauby bark (\"Colubrina arborescens\") should be consumed to \"cleanse\" the body; tea of vervine should be consumed to promote breastfeeding; and thick sheets may be wrapped around the mother’s stomach for weeks to help it revert to its original size. Some health professionals have also noted that an enema is proposed to mothers frequently by family and community members for a variety of reasons.\n\nLastly, newborns might go through particular rites of passages according to the religion of their family. For instance, most babies born into Christian homes have Christenings.\n"}
{"id": "53210514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53210514", "title": "Christopher Duntsch", "text": "Christopher Duntsch\n\nChristopher Daniel Duntsch (born April 3, 1971) is a former neurosurgeon who has been nicknamed Dr. D. and Dr. Death for gross malpractice resulting in the death and maiming of several patients while working at Baylor Plano and Dallas Medical Center. Duntsch was convicted of various crimes on February 20, 2017, and sentenced to life in prison.\n\nDuntsch completed the MD/PhD program and neurosurgery residency program at the University of Tennessee Health Science Center, and subsequently was an assistant professor there.\n\nDuntsch then moved to Dallas to work at Baylor Plano. After several botched surgeries, he left for Dallas Medical Center, where he was employed for less than a week before he was dismissed by administrators after the death of another patient. There is no information available indicating what investigation the state licensing agency did, or if the hospital notified the Texas Medical Board.\n\nAccording to court documents, he was suspected of being under the influence of cocaine while operating during his fourth year of residency. He was sent to an impaired physicians program and then he was allowed to return to his residency program.\n\nDuntsch began operating in Texas in 2010 and his medical license was revoked in 2013. He was accused and later convicted of maiming four patients and killing two others.\n\nIn December 2011, according to court proceedings, he emailed a colleague, saying \"I am ready to leave the love and kindness and goodness and patience that I mix with everything else that I am and become a cold blooded killer.\"\n\nIn March 2014, three former patients of Duntsch - Mary Efurd, Kenneth Fennel, and Lee Passmore - filed separate Federal Court suits against Baylor Plano, alleging that Baylor allowed Duntsch to perform surgeries despite knowing that he was a dangerous physician. Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott filed a motion to intervene in the suits to defend Baylor Plano, citing the Texas Legislature's 2003 statute that placed a medical malpractice cap of $250,000, along with the statute's removal of the term \"gross negligence\" from the definition of legal malice; the suit alleged that Baylor Plano made an average net profit of $65,000 on every spinal surgery performed by Duntsch.\n\nIn 2017, he was convicted of a first degree felony in the maiming of Mary Efurd during a spinal fusion surgery.\n\nHe had drilled a screw into Efurd's spinal cavity, placed implants into muscle instead of on bone, and completely amputated an entire spinal nerve root. \"It's as egregious as you can imagine,\" said Dr. Robert Henderson, the surgeon who was called on to perform emergency rescue surgery on Efurd after she had been maimed by Duntsch. Now 79, Efurd can stand for only 10 minutes at a time and spends most of her days in a wheelchair.\n\nIn July, 2015, approximately a year and a half after his license was revoked, Dr. Duntsch was arrested in Dallas County and faced five felony counts of aggravated assault causing serious bodily injury and one count of injury to a child, elderly or disabled person. Following a jury trial, he was convicted on the latter count and on February 20, 2017 he was sentenced to life in prison. His defense blamed poor training and control by the hospitals.\n\nAll four hospitals that employed Duntsch have an ongoing civil case against them.\n\nThe conviction of Duntsch was one of the first prison sentences given for malpractice, and has been called a precedent-setting case. The office of the district attorney prosecuting the case called it \"a historic case with respect to prosecuting a doctor who had done wrong during surgery.\" \n\nThe director of neurosurgery at UT Southwestern, Carlos Bagley, testifying for the defense, said that “the only way this happens is that the entire system fails the patients.\"\n\nOn September 4, 2018, the podcast production company Wondery Media launched the 9-episode series \"Dr. Death\", which was written, produced, and hosted by reporter Laura Beil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4576717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4576717", "title": "Cigarette filter", "text": "Cigarette filter\n\nA cigarette filter is a component of a cigarette, along with cigarette paper, capsules and adhesives. It does not make cigarettes less unhealthy. \n\nThe filter may be made from cellulose acetate fibre, paper or activated charcoal (either as a cavity filter or embedded into the cellulose acetate). Macroporous phenol-formaldehyde resins and asbestos have also been used in cigarette filters. The acetate and paper modify the particulate smoke phase by particle retention (filtration), and finely divided carbon modifies the gaseous phase (adsorption). Filters can reduce \"tar\" and nicotine smoke yields up to 50%, with a greater removal rate for other classes of compounds (e.g., phenols), but are ineffective in filtering toxins such as carbon monoxide. Most of these measured reductions occur only when the cigarette is smoked on a smoking machine; when a human smokes them, deliveries remain similar with or without a filter.\n\nMost factory-made cigarettes are equipped with a filter; those who roll their own can buy them from a tobacconist. The near-universal adoption of filters on cigarettes has not reduced harms to smokers; for instance, lung cancer rates have not declined. \n\nFilling a given length of cigarette with filter is cheaper than filling it with tobacco.\n\nIn 1925, Hungarian inventor Boris Aivaz patented the process of making a cigarette filter from crepe paper.\n\nFrom 1935, a British company began to develop a machine that made cigarettes incorporating the tipped filter. It was considered a specialty item until 1954, when manufacturers introduced the machine more broadly, following a spate of speculative announcements from doctors and researchers concerning a possible link between lung diseases and smoking. Since filtered cigarettes were considered \"safer\", by the 1960s, they dominated the market. Production of filter cigarettes rose from 0.5 percent in 1950 to 87.7 percent by 1975.\n\nBetween the 1930s and the 1950s, most cigarettes were 70 mm (~2 3/4 in) long. The modern cigarette market includes mainly filter cigarettes that are 80 mm (in boxes; ~3 1/8 in), 85 mm (in softpack; ~3 3/8 in), 100 mm (~3 15/16 in), or even 120 mm (~4 3/4 in) long.\n\nCigarettes filters were originally made of cork and used to prevent tobacco flakes from getting on the smokers' tongue. Many are still patterned to look like cork.\n\nCellulose acetate is made by esterifying bleached cotton or wood pulp with acetic acid. Of the three cellulose hydroxy groups available for esterification, between two and three are esterified by controlling the amount of acid (degree of substitution (DS) 2.35-2.55). The ester is spun into fibers and formed into bundles called filter tow. Flavors (menthol), sweeteners, softeners (triacetin), flame retardants (sodium tungstate), breakable capsules releasing flavors on demand, and additives colouring the tobacco smoke may be added to cigarette filters. The five largest manufactures of filter tow are Hoechst-Celanese and Eastman Chemicals in the United States, Rhodia Acetow in Germany, Daicel and Mitsubishi Rayon in Japan.\n\nStarch glues or emulsion-based adhesives are used for gluing cigarette seams. Hot-melt and emulsion-based adhesives are used for filter seams. Emulsion-based adhesives are used for bonding the filters to the cigarettes. The tip paper may be coated with polyvinyl alcohol.\n\nIn the 1970s epidemiologic evidence relative to tobacco-related cancers and data for coronary heart disease indicated a reduced risk among filter smokers for these diseases. Between 1970 and 1980 some studies showed a 20-50% reduction in risk of lung cancer for long-term smokers of filtered cigarettes as compared to smokers of non-filtered cigarettes (IARC, 1986) but later studies indicated a similar risk for lung cancer in smokers of filtered and non-filtered cigarettes.\n\nVarious add-on cigarette filters (\"Water Pik\", \"Venturi\", \"David Ross\") are sold as stop-smoking or tar-reduction devices. The idea is that filters reduce tar-nicotine levels permitting the smoker to be weaned away from cigarettes.\n\nThe tobacco industry has reduced tar and nicotine yields in cigarette smoke since the 1960s. This has been achieved in a variety of ways including use of selected strains of tobacco plant, changes in agricultural and curing procedures, use of reconstituted sheets (reprocessed tobacco leaf wastes), incorporation of tobacco stalks, reduction of the amount of tobacco needed to fill a cigarette by expanding it (like puffed wheat) to increase its \"filling power\", and by the use of filters and high-porosity wrapping papers. However, just as a drinker tends to drink a larger volume of beer than of wine or spirits, so many smokers tend to modify their smoking pattern inversely according to the strength of the cigarette being smoked. In contrast to the standardized puffing of the smoking machines on which the tar and nicotine yields are based, when a smoker switches to a low-tar, low nicotine cigarette, they smoke more cigarettes, take more puffs and inhale more deeply. Conversely, when smoking a high-tar, high-nicotine cigarette there is a tendency to smoke and inhale less.\n\nIn spite of the changes in cigarette design and manufacturing over the last 50 years, the use of filters and \"light\" cigarettes neither decreased the nicotine intake per cigarette, nor lowered the incidence of lung cancers (NCI, 2001; IARC 83, 2004; U.S. Surgeon General, 2004). The shift over the years from higher- to lower-yield cigarettes may explain the change in the pathology of lung cancer. That is, the percentage of lung cancers that are adenocarcinomas has increased, while the percentage of squamous cell cancers has decreased. The change in tumor type is believed to reflect the higher nitrosamine delivery of lower-yield cigarettes and the increased depth or volume of inhalation of lower-yield cigarettes to compensate for lower level concentrations of nicotine in the smoke.\n\nCellulose acetate is non-toxic, odorless, tasteless, and weakly flammable. It is resistant to weak acids and is largely stable to mineral and fatty oils as well as petroleum. It is biodegradable and the raw material is a renewable natural polymer expected to find application for other uses in the future. Smoked cigarette butts contain 5–7 mg (~ 0.08-0.11 gr) nicotine (about 25% of the total cigarette nicotine content), children ingesting >2 whole cigarettes, 6 cigarette butts or a total of 0.5 mg/kg (~ 0,0035 gr/lbs) of nicotine should be admitted to a hospital. Cellulose acetate is hydrophilic and retains the water-soluble smoke constituents, of which many are irritating (acids, alkali, aldehydes, and phenols), while letting through the lipophilic aromatic compounds.\n\nSmoked cigarette butts and cigarette tobacco are toxic to water organisms such as the marine topsmelt (\"Atherinops affinis\") and the freshwater fathead minnow (\"Pimephales promelas\").\n\nAtmospheric moisture, gastric acid, light, and enzymes hydrolyze cellulose acetate to acetic acid and cellulose. Cellulose may be further hydrolyzed to cellobiose or glucose in an acidic medium, and eventually form valuable humus. Humans cannot digest cellulose and excrete the fibers in feces, because, unlike ruminant animals, rabbits, rodents, termites, and some bacteria and fungi, they lack cellulolytic enzymes such as cellulase. Like wood, paper and cotton, cigarette filters in soil rot slowly over months to years.\n\nCigarette butts are the most common form of anthropogenic (man-made) litter in the world, as approximately 5.6 trillion cigarettes are smoked every year worldwide. Of those it is estimated that 4.5 trillion cigarette butts become litter every year. The cellulose acetate fibers used as the predominant filter material do not readily biodegrade because of the acetyl groups on the cellulose backbone which in itself can quickly be degraded by various microorganisms employing cellulases. A normal life span of a discarded filter is thought to be up to 15 years.\n\nMany governments have sanctioned stiff penalties for littering of cigarette filters; for example Washington state imposes a penalty of $1,025 for littering cigarette filters. Another option is developing better biodegradable filters. Much of this work relies heavily on the research about the secondary mechanism for photodegradation as stated above. The next option is using cigarette packs with a compartment for discarded cigarette butts, implementing monetary deposits on filters, increasing the availability of butt receptacles, and expanding public education. It may even be possible to ban the sale of filtered cigarettes altogether on the basis of their adverse environmental impact. Recent research has been put into finding ways to utilizes the filter waste, to develop a desired product. One research group in South Korea have developed a simple one-step process that converts the cellulose acetate in discarded cigarette filters into a high-performing material that could be integrated into computers, handheld devices, electrical vehicle and wind turbines to store energy. These materials have demonstrated superior performance as compared to commercially available carbon, graphene and carbon nano tubes. The product is showing high promise as a green alternative for the waste problem. Another group of researchers has proposed adding tablets of food grade acid inside the filters. Once wet enough the tablets will release acid that accelerates degradation to around two weeks (instead of using cellulose triacetate and besides of cigarette smoke being quite acidic). A Dutch startup is training crows to recognize and pick up cigarette butts in exchange for treats.\n\n"}
{"id": "28195682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28195682", "title": "Cramp fasciculation syndrome", "text": "Cramp fasciculation syndrome\n\nCramp fasciculation syndrome (CFS) is a rare peripheral nerve hyperexcitability disorder. It is more severe than the related (and common) disorder known as benign fasciculation syndrome; it causes fasciculations, cramps, pain, fatigue, and muscle stiffness similar to those seen in neuromyotonia (another related condition). Patients with CFS, like those with neuromyotonia, may also experience paresthesias.\nMost cases of cramp fasciculation syndrome are idiopathic.\n\nCramp fasciculation syndrome is diagnosed by clinical examination and electromyography (EMG). Fasciculation is the only abnormality (if any) seen with EMG.\nCramp fasciculation syndrome is a chronic condition. Treatment options include anti-seizure medications such as carbamazepine, immunosuppressive drugs and plasmapheresis.\n\nSymptoms are very similar to those found in benign fasciculation syndrome and include:\n\n\nThe procedure of diagnosis for Cramp Fasciculation Syndrome (CFS) is closely aligned with the diagnosis procedure for benign fasciculation syndrome (BFS). The differentiation between a diagnosis of BFS versus CFS is usually more severe and prominent pain, cramps and stiffness associated with CFS.\n\nTreatment is similar to treatment for benign fasciculation syndrome.\n\nCarbamazepine therapy has been found to provide moderate reductions in symptoms.\n\n"}
{"id": "12641300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12641300", "title": "DAZ 3D", "text": "DAZ 3D\n\nDaz Productions, Inc., commonly known as Daz 3D, is a 3D content and software company specializing in providing rigged 3D human models, associated accessory content and software to the hobbyist as well as the prosumer market. Originally a part of Zygote Media Group, a general purpose, application-agnostic 3D content broker, Daz 3D split off as \"Digital Art Zone\" in 2000 to focus on supplying content for the Poser market.\n\nDaz 3D continue to focus on 3D content development, but also began to expand their own 3D software offerings as well, with purchases of several notable 3D applications:\n\n\nAdditionally, Daz 3D developed their own scene creator software, Daz Studio, as an alternative to Poser.\n\nIn 2016 Daz 3D spun off Morph 3D, a 3D content company intended to focus more on the game developer space.\n\nIn 2012 Daz 3D shifted their strategy from selling 3D software and content to one of giving the 3D software away for free and focusing more on the selling of the content. This began with offering Daz Studio for free in 2012, which gave customers the ability to render images and video and expanded in 2017 when Daz 3D added Hexagon to the list of their free software products and added the ability to do 3D modeling to that mix.\n\nDaz 3D has had many versions of its human figures and characters, but in 2011 they launched a significant change in the underlying technology. Instead of each figure being designed individually, Daz 3D moved to their Genesis platform, in which figures were derived as morphs from the base mesh. Two of the key differences that this technology created were: The ability for characters to be blended into a huge variety of shapes, and since these shapes were all derived form a common based, add-on content like clothing, hair, and additional morphs would not only work on all characters, but could actually change with the characters.\n\nThe Genesis platform has gone through several versions since the launch in 2011:\n\nGenesis 2:\n\nOne of the shortcomings of the Genesis platform was that although it allowed extremely flexibility in the shape of characters and clothing, it also toned down some of the elements of what made a male or female figure unique. Genesis 2 changed this by splitting the Genesis base figure into two separate base figures: Genesis 2 Male and Genesis 2 Female.\n\nGenesis 3:\n\nUp until Genesis 3 the Genesis figures had been using TriAx Weight Maps, where many other industry platforms were using Dual Quaternion. This changed in Genesis 3 to allow Daz 3D figures to be more compatible with other 3D software platforms as well as Game Development platforms.\n\nGenesis 8:\n\nThe jump in version naming from Genesis 3 to Genesis 8 was in order to address confusion in naming conventions. Although Genesis had reached its fourth version, most of the Daz 3D flagship characters were now on their eight versions. In order to avoid the confusion of Victoria 8 or Michael 8 being Genesis 4 characters, Daz 3D shifted the versioning of Genesis to match with the character versions.\n\nGenesis 8 also includes significant changes in the figure's backward compatibility with previous generations and their content as well as Joint and muscle bends and flexing and facial expressions.\n\n"}
{"id": "4637216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4637216", "title": "Diseases of poverty", "text": "Diseases of poverty\n\nDiseases of poverty (also known as poverty related diseases) is the term used to describe diseases that are more prevalent in the low-income population. It includes infectious diseases as well as diseases related to malnutrition and poor health behaviors. Poverty is one of the social determinants of health. The World Health Report, 2002 states that diseases of poverty account for 45% of the disease burden in the countries with high poverty rate which are preventable or treatable with exciting interventions. Diseases of poverty are often co-morbid and ubiquitous with malnutrition.\n\nPoverty and diseases are a ramification of each other. Poverty increases chances of having these diseases as the deprivation of safe shelter, drinking water and food, poor sanitation, lack of knowledge and access to health services contributes towards poor health behaviors which often results into diseases of poverty. At the same time, these diseases act as a barrier for economic growth to affected people and families caring for them which in turn results into increased poverty in the community.\n\nThese diseases triggered in part by poverty are in contrast to so-called \"diseases of affluence\", which are diseases thought to be a result of increasing wealth in a society.\n\nFor many environmental and social factors, including poor housing conditions and poor working conditions, inadequate sanitation, and disproportionate occupation as sex workers, the poor are more likely to be exposed to infectious diseases. Malnutrition, mental stress, overwork, inadequate knowledge, and minimal health care can hinder recovery and exacerbate the disease. Malnutrition is associated with 54% of childhood deaths from diseases of poverty, and lack of skilled attendants during childbirth is primarily responsible for the high maternal and infant death rates among the poor.\n\nEach year many children and adults die as a result of a lack of access to clean drinking water and poor sanitation. Many poverty related diseases such as diarrhea acquire and spread as a result of inadequate access to clean drinking water. According to UNICEF, 3,000 children die every day, worldwide due to contaminated drinking water and poor sanitation.\n\nAlthough the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) of halving the number of people who did not have access to clean water by 2015, was reached five years ahead of schedule in 2010, there are still 783 million people who rely on unimproved water sources. In 2010 the United Nations declared access to clean water a fundamental human right, integral to the achievement of other rights. This made it enforceable and justifiable to permit governments to ensure their populations access to clean water. Though access to water has improved for some, it continues to be especially difficult for women and children. Women and girls bear most of the burden for accessing water and supplying it to their households.\n\nIn India, Sub-Saharan Africa, and parts of Latin America, women are required to travel long distances in order to access a clean water source and then bring some water home. This has a significant impact on girls’ educational attainment.\n\nThere have been further efforts to improve water quality using new technology which allows water to be disinfected immediately upon collection and during the storage process. Clean water is necessary for cooking, cleaning, and laundry because many people come into contact with disease causing pathogens through their food, or while bathing or washing.\n\nAn ongoing issue of contaminated water in the United States has been taking place in Flint, Michigan. On September 4, 2018, evidence of E Coli and other organisms that can cause disease were found in the water. The issue of contaminated water in Flint, Michigan started when the source for drinking water in Flint was changed from the Lake Huron and the Detroit River to the very cheap Flint River.\n\nContaminated water and inadequate sanitation are related to diseases of poverty such as malaria, parasitic diseases, and schistosomiasis. These infections act as cofactors that increase the risk of HIV transmission.\n\nStandpipes and sanitation are provided in most developing areas, but the death rates are not significantly reduced. One of the reasons that water-related diseases are still occurring is because water supplies can be contacted by contaminated surface water. To effectively decrease the morbidity and mortality of diseases, the population should get access to water from home instead from outside. Therefore, in addition to the installation of standpipes, water supplies and sanitation should be provided within houses.\n\nMalnutrition disproportionately affect those in sub-Saharan Africa. Over 35 percent of children under the age of 5 in sub-Saharan Africa show physical signs of malnutrition. Malnutrition, the immune system, and infectious diseases operate in a cyclical manner: infectious diseases have deleterious effects on nutritional status, and nutritional deficiencies can lower the strength of the immune system which affects the body’s ability to resist infections. Similarly, malnutrition of both macronutrients (such as protein and energy) and micronutrients (such as iron, zinc, and vitamins) increase susceptibility to HIV infections by interfering with the immune system and through other biological mechanisms. Depletion of macro-nutrients and micro-nutrients promotes viral replication that contributes to greater risks of HIV transmission from mother-to-child as well as those through sexual transmission. Increased mother-to-child transmission is related to specific deficiencies in micro-nutrients such as vitamin A. Further, anemia, a decrease in the number of red blood cells, increases viral shedding in the birth canal, which also increases risk of mother-to-child transmission. Without these vital nutrients, the body lacks the defense mechanisms to resist infections. At the same time, HIV lowers the body’s ability to intake essential nutrients. HIV infection can affect the production of hormones that interfere with the metabolism of carbohydrates, proteins, and fats.\n\nIn the United States, 11.1 percent of households struggle with food insecurity. Food insecurity refers to the lack of access to quality food for a healthy lifestyle. The rate of hunger and malnutrition in female headed households was three times the national average at 30.2 percent. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 10 percent of the population in Latin America and the Caribbean are affected by hunger and malnutrition.\n\nQuality and affordability of housing are one of the major concerns in public health. Poor housing conditions can be described as leaks, molds, indoor air pollutant, overcrowding, hazardous structures, affordability of home heating, and poor ergonomics. Housing insecurities are very common among the poor. It is often associated with infectious diseases, lead exposure, injuries, and mental health.\n\nAccording to WHO, medical strategies report, approximately 30% of the global population does not have regular access to exciting medicines. In the poorest parts of Africa and Asia, this percent goes up to 50%. The population below the poverty line lacks access due to higher retail price and unavailability of the medicines. The higher cost can be due to the higher manufacturing price or due to local or regional tax and Value Added Tax. There is a significant disparity in the research conducted in the health sector. It is claimed that only 10% of the health research conducted globally focuses on 90% disease burden. However, diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases etc that traditionally were associated with the wealthier community are now becoming more prevalent in the poor communities as well. Hence, the research conducted now is relevant to poor population. Political priority is also one of the contributing factors of inaccessibility. The government of poor countries may allocate less funding to public health due to the scarcity of resources.\n\nTogether, diseases of poverty kill approximately 14 million people annually. Gastroenteritis with its associated diarrhea results in about 1.8 million deaths in children yearly with most of these in the world's poorest nations.\n\nAt the global level, the three primary PRDs are tuberculosis, AIDS/HIV and malaria. Developing countries account for 95% of the global AIDS prevalence and 98% of active tuberculosis infections. Furthermore, 90% of malaria deaths occur in sub-Saharan Africa. Together, these three diseases account for 10% of global mortality.\n\nTreatable childhood diseases are another set which have disproportionately higher rates in poor countries despite the availability of cures for decades. These include measles, pertussis and polio.<ref name=\"IPN 10/90\"></ref> The largest three poverty-related diseases (PRDs) — AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis — account for 18% of diseases in poor countries. The disease burden of treatable childhood diseases in high-mortality, poor countries is 5.2% in terms of disability-adjusted life years but just 0.2% in the case of advanced countries.\n\nIn addition, infant mortality and maternal mortality are far more prevalent among the poor. For example, 98% of the 11,600 daily maternal and neonatal deaths occur in developing countries.\n\nThree other diseases, measles, pneumonia, and diarrheal diseases, are also closely associated with poverty, and are often included with AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis in broader definitions and discussions of diseases of poverty.\n\nBased upon the spread of research in cures for diseases, certain diseases are identified and referred to as \"neglected diseases\". These include the following diseases:\n\nTropical diseases such as these tend to be neglected in research and development efforts. Of 1393 new drugs brought into use over a period of 25 years (1975–1999), only a total of thirteen, less than 1%, related to these diseases. Of 20 MNC drug companies surveyed for research on PRDs, only two had projects targeted towards these neglected PRDs. However, the combined total number of deaths due to these diseases is dwarfed by the enormous number of patients affected by PRDs such as respiratory infections, HIV/AIDS, diarrhea and tuberculosis, besides many others.\nSimilar to the spread of tropical neglected diseases in developing nations, these neglected infections disproportionately affect poor and minority populations in the United States. These diseases have been identified by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as priorities for public health action based on the number of people infected, the severity of the illnesses, and the ability to prevent and treat them.\n\nTrichomoniasis is the most common sexually transmitted infection affecting more than 200 million people worldwide. It is especially prevalent among young, poor and African American women. This infection is also common in poor communities in Sub-Saharan Africa and impoverished parts of Asia. This neglected infection is one of special concern because it is associated with a heightened risk for contracting HIV and pre-term deliveries.\n\nIn addition, availability of cures and recent advances in medicine have led to only three diseases being considered neglected diseases, namely, African trypanosomiasis, Chagas disease and Leishmaniasis.\n\nAfrica accounts for a majority of malaria infections and deaths worldwide. Over 80 percent of the 300 to 500 million malaria infections occurring annually worldwide are in Africa. Each year, about one million children under the age of five die from malaria. Children who are poor, have mothers with little to no education, and live in rural areas are more susceptible to malaria and more likely to die from it. Malaria is directly related to the spread of HIV in sub-Saharan Africa. It increases viral load seven to ten times, which increases the chances of transmission of HIV through sexual intercourse from a patient with malaria to an uninfected partner. After the first pregnancy, HIV can also decrease the immunity to malaria. This contributes to the increase of the vulnerability to HIV and higher mortality from HIV, especially for women and infants. HIV and malaria interact in a cyclical manner—being infected with malaria increases susceptibility to HIV infection, and HIV infections increase malarial episodes. The co-existence of HIV and malaria infections helps spread both diseases, particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa. Malaria vaccines are an area of intensive research.\n\nIntestinal parasites are extremely prevalent in tropical areas. These include hookworms, roundworms, and other amoebas. They can aggravate malnutrition by depleting essential nutrients through intestinal blood loss and chronic diarrhea. Chronic worm infections can further burden the immune system. At the same time, chronic worm infections can cause immune activation that increases susceptibility of HIV infection and vulnerability to HIV replication once infected.\n\nSchistosomiasis (bilharzia) is a parasitic disease caused by the parasitic flatworm trematodes. Moreover, more than 80 percent of the 200 million people worldwide who have schistosomiasis live in sub-Saharan Africa. Infections often occur in contaminated water where freshwater snails release larval forms of the parasite. After penetrating the skin and eventually traveling to the intestines or the urinary tract, the parasite lays eggs and infects those organs. It damages the intestines, bladder, and other organs and can lead to anemia and protein-energy deficiency. Along with malaria, schistosomiasis is one of the most important parasitic co-factors aiding in HIV transmission. Epidemiological data shows schistosome-endemic areas coincide with areas of high HIV prevalence, suggesting that parasitic infections such as schistosomiasis increase risk of HIV transmission.\n\nTuberculosis is the leading cause of death around the world for an infectious disease. This disease is especially prevalent in sub-Saharan Africa, and the Latin American and Caribbean region. While the tuberculosis rate is decreasing in the rest of the world, it is increasing by rate of 6 percent per year in Sub-Saharan Africa. It is the leading cause of death for people with HIV in Africa. Tuberculosis (TB) is closely related to lifestyles of poverty, overcrowded conditions, alcoholism, stress, drug addiction and malnutrition. This disease spreads quickly among people who are undernourished. According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, in the United States, tuberculosis is more prevalent among foreign born persons, and ethnic minorities. The rates are especially high among Hispanics, Blacks and Asians.\nHIV infection and TB are also closely tied. Being infected with HIV increases the rate of activation of latent TB infections, and having TB, increases the rate of HIV replication, therefore accelerating the progression of AIDS.\n\nAIDS is a disease of the human immune system caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Primary modes of HIV transmission in sub-Saharan Africa are sexual intercourse, mother-to-child transmission (vertical transmission), and through HIV-infected blood. Since rate of HIV transmission via heterosexual intercourse is so low, it is insufficient to cause AIDS disparities between countries. Critics of AIDS policies promoting safe sexual behaviors believe that these policies miss the biological mechanisms and social risk factors that contribute to the high HIV rates in poorer countries. In these developing countries, especially those in sub-Saharan Africa, certain health factors predispose the population to HIV infections.\n\nMany of the countries in Sub-Saharan Africa are ravaged with poverty and many people live on less than one United States dollar a day. The poverty in these countries gives rise to many other factors that explain the high prevalence of AIDS. The poorest people in most African countries suffer from malnutrition, lack of access to clean water, and have improper sanitation. Because of a lack of clean water many people are plagued by intestinal parasites that significantly increase their chances of contracting HIV due to compromised immune system. Malaria, a disease still rampant in Africa also increases the risk of contracting HIV. These parasitic diseases, affect the body’s immune response to HIV, making people more susceptible to contracting the disease once exposed. Genital schistosomiasis, also prevalent in the topical areas of Sub-Saharan Africa and many countries worldwide, produces genital lesions and attract CD4 cells to the genital region which promotes HIV infection. All these factors contribute to the high rate of HIV in Sub-Saharan Africa. Many of the factors seen in Africa are also present in Latin America and the Caribbean and contribute to the high rates of infections seen in those regions. In the United States, poverty is a contributing factor to HIV infections. There is also a large racial disparity, with African Americans having a significantly higher rate of infection than their white counterparts.\n\nMore than 300 million people worldwide have asthma. The rate of asthma increases as countries become more urbanized and in many parts of the world those who develop asthma do not have access to medication and medical care. Within the United States, African Americans and Latinos are four times more likely to suffer from severe asthma than whites. The disease is closely tied to poverty and poor living conditions. Asthma is also prevalent in children in low income countries. Homes with roaches and mice, as well as mold and mildew put children at risk for developing asthma as well as exposure to cigarette smoke.\n\nUnlike many other Western countries, the mortality rate for asthma has steadily risen in the United States over the last two decades. Mortality rates for African American children due to asthma are also far higher than that of other racial groups. For African Americans, the rate of visits to the emergency room is 330 percent higher than their white counterparts. The hospitalization rate is 220 percent higher and the death rate is 190 percent higher. Among Hispanics, Puerto Ricans are disporpotionatly affected by asthma with a disease rate that is 113 percent higher than non-Hispanic Whites and 50 percent higher than non-Hispanic Blacks. Studies have shown that asthma morbidity and mortality are concentrated in inner city neighborhoods characterized by poverty and large minority populations and this affects both genders at all ages. Asthma continues to have an adverse effects on the health of the poor and school attendance rates among poor children. 10.5 million days of school are missed each year due to asthma.\n\nThough heart disease is not exclusive to the poor, there are aspects of a life of poverty that contribute to its development. This category includes coronary heart disease, stroke and heart attack. Heart disease is the leading cause of death worldwide and there are disparities of morbidity between the rich and poor. Studies from around the world link heart disease to poverty. Low neighborhood income and education were associated with higher risk factors. Poor diet, lack of exercise and limited (or no) access to a specialist were all factors related to poverty, though to contribute to heart disease.\nBoth low income and low education were predictors of coronary heart disease, a subset of cardiovascular disease. Of those admitted to hospital in the United States for heart failure, women and African Americans were more likely to reside in lower income neighborhoods. In the developing world, there is a 10 fold increase in cardiac events in the black and urban populations.\n\nObstetric fistula or vaginal fistula is a medical condition in which a fistula (hole) develops between either the rectum and vagina (see rectovaginal fistula) or between the bladder and vagina (see vesicovaginal fistula) after severe or failed childbirth, when adequate medical care is not available. It is considered a disease of poverty because of its tendency to occur women in poor countries who do not have health resources comparable to developed nations.\n\nDental decay or dental caries is the gradual destruction of tooth enamel. Poverty is a significant determinant for oral health. Dental caries is one of the most common chronic diseases worldwide. In the United States it is the most common chronic disease of childhood. Risk factors for dental caries includes living in poverty, poor education, low socioeconomic status, being part of an ethnic minority group, having a developmental disability, recent immigrants and people infected with HIV/AIDS. In Peru, poverty was found to be positively correlated with dental caries among children. According to a report by U.S health surveillance, tooth decay peaks earlier in life and is more severe in children with families living below the poverty line. Tooth decay is also strongly linked to dietary behaviors, and in poor rural areas where nutrient dense foods, fruits and vegetables are unavailable, the consumption of sugary and fatty food increases the risk of dental decay. Because the mouth is a gateway to the respiratory and digestive tracts, oral health has a significant impact on other health outcomes. Gum disease has been linked to diseases such as cardiovascular disease.\n\nDiseases of poverty reflect the dynamic relationship between poverty and poor health; while such diseases result directly from poverty, they also perpetuate and deepen impoverishment by sapping personal and national health and financial resources. For example, malaria decreases GDP growth by up to 1.3% in some developing nations, and by killing tens of millions in sub-Saharan Africa, AIDS alone threatens “the economies, social structures, and political stability of entire societies”.\n\nWomen and children are often put at a high risk of being infected by schistosomiasis, which in turn puts them at a higher risk of acquiring HIV. Since the mode of schistosomiasis transmission is usually through contaminated water in streams and lakes, women and children who do their household chores by the water are more likely to acquire the disease. Activities that women and children often do around waterfront include washing clothes, collecting water, bathing, and swimming. Women who have schistosomiasis lesions are three times more likely to be infected with HIV.\n\nWomen also have a higher risk of HIV transmission through the use of medical equipment such as needles. Because more women than men use health services, especially during pregnancy, they are more likely to come across unsterilized needles for injections. Although statistics estimate that unsterilized needles only account for 5 to 10 percent of primary HIV infections, studies show this mode of HIV transmission may be higher than reported. This increased risk of contracting HIV through non-sexual means has social consequences for women as well. Over half of the husbands of HIV-positive women in Africa tested HIV-negative. When HIV-positive women reveal their HIV status to their HIV-negative husbands, they are often accused of infidelity and face violence and abandonment from their family and community.\n\nMalnutrition associated with HIV impacts people’s ability to provide for themselves and their dependents, thus limiting the human capabilities of both themselves and their dependents. HIV can negatively affect work output, which impacts the ability to generate income. This is crucial in parts of Africa where farming is the primary occupation and obtaining food is dependent on the agricultural outcome. Without adequate food production, malnutrition becomes more prevalent. Children are often collateral damage in the AIDS crisis. As dependents, they can be burdened by the illness and eventual death of one or both parents due to HIV/AIDS. Studies have shown that orphaned children are more likely to display physical symptoms of malnutrition than children whose parents are both alive.\n\nThere are a number of proposals for reducing the diseases of poverty and eliminating health disparities within and between countries. The World Health Organization proposes closing the gaps by acting on social determinants. \nTheir first recommendation is to improve daily living conditions. This area involves improving the lives of women and girls so that their children are born in healthy environments and placing an emphasis on early childhood health. \nTheir second recommendation is to tackle the inequitable distribution of money, power and resources. This would involve building stronger public sectors and changing the way in which society is organized. \nTheir third recommendation is to measure and understand the problem and assess the impact of action. This would involve training policy makers and healthcare practitioners to recognize problems and form policy solutions. \n\nThe 8th Global Conference on Health Promotion held in Helsinki in June 2013 has proposed an approach termed Health in All Policies. Health inequalities are shaped by many powerful forces and social, political, and economic determinants. Governments have a responsibility to ensure that their people are able to live healthy lives and have equitable access to achieving a reasonable state of good health. Policies that governments craft and implement in all sectors have a significant and ongoing impact on public health, health equity, and the lives of their citizens. Increases in technology, medical innovation, and living conditions have led to the disappearance of diseases and other factors contributing to poor health. However, there are many diseases of poverty that still persist in developed and developing countries. Tackling these health inequalities and diseases of poverty requires a willingness to engage the whole government in health. The Helskinki Statement lays out a framework of action for countries and calls on governments to make a commitment to building health equity within their country. \n\nHealth in All Policies (HiAP) is an approach to public policies across all sectors of government that takes into account the health implications of all government and policy decisions to improve health equity across all populations residing within the borders of a country. This concept is built upon principles in line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, The United Nations Millennium Development Declaration, and principles of good governance : legitimacy given by national and international law, accountability of government, transparency of policy making, participation of citizens, sustainability ensuring policies meet the needs of both present and future generations, and collaboration across sectors and levels of government. \n\nFinally the Framework lists and expands upon six steps for implementation that may be undertaken by a country in taking action towards Health in All Policies. These are components of action and not a rigid checklist of steps to adhere to. The most important aspect of this policy is that governments should adapt the policy to suit the needs of their citizens, their socioeconomic situation, and their governance system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10146755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10146755", "title": "Emmanuel Kwasi Kotoka", "text": "Emmanuel Kwasi Kotoka\n\nLieutenant General Emmanuel Kwasi Kotoka (26 September 1926 – 17 April 1967) was a member of the ruling National Liberation Council which came to power in Ghana in a military coup d'état on 24 February 1966. This overthrew the government of Dr. Kwame Nkrumah, the first president of the republic.\n\nEmmanuel Kotoka was born at Alakple, a village in the Keta district of the Volta Region of the Gold Coast (British colony). He completed his basic education at the Alakple Roman Catholic School and later the Anloga Senior School in 1941. He started training as a goldsmith but switched to a career in the military.\n\nIn July 1947, he enlisted as a private in the Infantry School of the Gold Coast Regiment at Teshie in Accra. He rose through the ranks, becoming a sergeant in 1948 and later Company Sergeant Major in 1951. In 1952, he was among some west African soldiers selected for training at Eaton Hall Officer Cadet School in the United Kingdom. In 1954, he was commissioned as a lieutenant and seconded to the British army on the Rhine.\n\nOn his return to the Gold Coast (as Ghana was then called), he was made a Platoon Commander of the Second Gold Coast Regiment of Infantry. He rose to become the Second-in-Command and in 1959 became the Platoon Commander with the rank of Captain. He was promoted to the rank of Major later that year. In 1960, he attended the Company Commander's course at the School of Infantry in Warminster, England. In 1960, he was the commander of D company of the detachment of the Second Battalion of the Ghana army which made up Ghana's contingent in the United Nations Operation in the Congo deployed in the capital, Leopoldville, now Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of Congo. He was regarded as a national hero following this deployment. He was awarded the Ghana Service Order for Exceptional Bravery for Distinguished Service in the Congo in 1963. He later became the Commander of the Second Infantry Brigade (now the Northern Command) of the Ghana Army) located at Kumasi.\n\nIn 1965, the then Lieutenant-Colonel Kotoka was transferred to Kumasi where he met and became friends with then Major Akwasi Amankwa Afrifa, an officer in the Second Brigade of the Ghana army. The two are generally credited with being among the key conspirators behind the first bloody coup d'état in Ghana on 24 February 1966 which brought an end to the first republic. They codenamed it \"Operation Cold Chop\". It was Kotoka who announced the coup to the nation early that morning from the Broadcasting House of the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation, the official radio station in Ghana. The Central Intelligence Agency appears to have been aware about the plotting of the coup at least a year ahead.\nKotoka was promoted Major General and became a member of the ruling National Liberation Council and also the Commissioner for Ministry of Health as well as General Officer Commanding the Ghana Armed Forces.\n\nOn 17 April 1967, there was an abortive coup attempt involving junior officers of the reconnaissance regiment located at Ho in the Volta Region. It was code named \"Guitar-boy\". It led to the killing of Kotoka by Lt. Moses Yeboah after heavy fighting. Lt. Moses Yeboah and another colleague were later tried and executed by a military tribunal. The Ghana International Airport was renamed Kotoka International Airport in his memory. He was killed at a spot which is now part of the forecourt of the airport and his statue stands at that point.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58266670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58266670", "title": "Evelyn Ramsey", "text": "Evelyn Ramsey\n\nEvelyn Mae Ramsey (June 16, 1923 - June 25, 1989) was an American medical missionary and linguist associated with the Church of the Nazarene.\n\nRamsey was born in Richmond, Kentucky, and took her education at Trevecca Nazarene College, Eastern Nazarene College, Vanderbilt University, and Tufts University School of Medicine. She served at the Raleigh Fitkin Nazarene Hospital in Manzini, Swaziland from 1956 until 1968. In 1969 she was transferred to Papua New Guinea to work at the Nazarene Hospital in Kudjip. Ramsey had always been interested in linguistics, having studied French, Greek, Hebrew, and German and further learned Zulu and Swazi in Africa. In Kudjip she took an interest in the Middle Wahgi language, which was as yet unrecorded; she eventually compiled a dictionary of the language. She also put together a concordance of the New Testament and the Psalms in Pidgin English. Ramsey retired to Indianapolis in 1988, dying there the following year. The dictionary had been published in 1975. Another book, \"Show Me, Lord\", was published in 1982. Ramsey was also the subject of a book, \"The Ramsey Covenant\" by L. David Duff, published in 1985.\n"}
{"id": "7891547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7891547", "title": "Fujian flu", "text": "Fujian flu\n\nFujian flu refers to flu caused by either a Fujian human flu strain of the H3N2 subtype of the \"Influenza A virus\" or a Fujian bird flu strain of the H5N1 subtype of the \"Influenza A virus\". These strains are named after Fujian, a coastal province of the People's Republic of China.\n\nA/Fujian (H3N2) human flu (from A/Fujian/411/2002(H3N2) -like flu virus strains) caused an unusually severe 2003–2004 flu season. This was due to a reassortment event that caused a minor clade to provide a haemagglutinin gene that later became part of the dominant strain in the 2002–2003 flu season. A/Fujian (H3N2) was made part of the trivalent influenza vaccine for the 2004-2005 flu season and its descendants are still the most common human H3N2 strain.\n\nA/Fujian (H5N1) bird flu is notable for its resistance to standard medical countermeasures and its rapid spread. This variant of the H5N1 virus also illustrates the continuing evolution of the H5N1 virus, and its emergence has caused political controversy.\n\nPhrases used to identify the flu or the causative agent include \"Fujian-like\" and \"Fujian virus\" for the H5N1 version and \"Fujian-like\" for the H3N2 version.\n\nBoth are also sometimes specified as \"Type A Fujian flu\" or \"A/Fujian flu\" referring to the species \"Influenza A virus\". Both are also sometimes specified according to their species subtype: \"Fujian Flu (H3N2)\" or \"Fujian Flu (H5N1)\". Or both, example: \"A-Fujian-H3N2\".\n\n\"A/Fujian/411/2002-like (H3N2)\" and \"Influenza A/Fujian/411/02(H3N2)-lineage viruses\" are examples of using the full name of the virus strains.\n\nIn the 2003-2004 flu season the influenza vaccine was produced to protect against A/Panama (H3N2), A/New Caledonia (H1N1), and B/Hong Kong. A new strain, A/Fujian (H3N2), was discovered after production of the vaccine started and vaccination gave only partial protection against this strain. Nature magazine reported that the Influenza Genome Sequencing Project, using phylogenetic analysis of 156 H3N2 genomes, \"explains the appearance, during the 2003–2004 season, of the 'Fujian/411/2002'-like strain, for which the existing vaccine had limited effectiveness\" as due to an epidemiologically significant reassortment. \"Through a reassortment event, a minor clade provided the haemagglutinin gene that later became part of the dominant strain after the 2002–2003 season. Two of our samples, A/New York/269/2003 (H3N2) and A/New York/32/2003 (H3N2), show that this minor clade continued to circulate in the 2003–2004 season, when most other isolates were reassortants.\"\n\nIn January 2004, the predominant flu virus circulating in humans in Europe was influenza A/Fujian/411/2002 (H3N2)-like.\n\nAs of 15 June 2004, CDC had antigenically characterized 1,024 influenza viruses collected by U.S. laboratories since 1 October 2003: 949 influenza A (H3N2) viruses, three influenza A (H1) viruses, one influenza A (H7N2) virus, and 71 influenza B viruses. Of the 949 influenza A (H3N2) isolates characterized, 106 (11.2%) were similar antigenically to the vaccine strain A/Panama/2007/1999 (H3N2), and 843 (88.8%) were similar to the drift variant, A/Fujian/411/2002 (H3N2).\n\nThe 2004-2005 flu season trivalent influenza vaccine for the United States contained A/New Caledonia/20/1999-like (H1N1), A/Fujian/411/2002-like (H3N2), and B/Shanghai/361/2002-like viruses.\n\nFlu Watch reported for 13 February to 19 February 2005 that:\n\nSpecific H5N1 isolates labeled as Fujian include A/Fujian/1/2005 and A/DK/Fujian/1734/05 (or A/Ck/Fujian/1734/2005).\n\nA/Fujian (H5N1) bird flu is notable for its resistance to standard medical countermeasures, its rapid spread, what it tells us about the continuing evolution of the H5N1 virus, and the political controversy surrounding it. CIDRAP says \"A new subtype of H5N1 avian influenza virus has become predominant in southern China over the past year, possibly through its resistance to vaccines used in poultry, and has been found in human H5N1 cases in China, according to researchers from Hong Kong and the United States. The rise of the Fujian-like strain seems to be the cause of increased poultry outbreaks and recent human cases in China, according to the team from the University of Hong Kong and St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital in Memphis. The researchers also found an overall increase of H5N1 infection in live-poultry markets in southern China.\"\n\nAccording to the New York Times: \"[P]oultry vaccines, made on the cheap, are not filtered and purified [like human vaccines] to remove bits of bacteria or other viruses. They usually contain whole virus, not just the hemagglutinin spike that attaches to cells. Purification is far more expensive than the work in eggs, Dr. Stöhr said; a modest factory for human vaccine costs $100 million, and no veterinary manufacturer is ready to build one. Also, poultry vaccines are \"adjuvated\" — boosted — with mineral oil, which induces a strong immune reaction but can cause inflammation and abscesses. Chicken vaccinators who have accidentally jabbed themselves have developed painful swollen fingers or even lost thumbs, doctors said. Effectiveness may also be limited. Chicken vaccines are often only vaguely similar to circulating flu strains — some contain an H5N2 strain isolated in Mexico years ago. 'With a chicken, if you use a vaccine that's only 85 percent related, you'll get protection,' Dr. Cardona said. 'In humans, you can get a single point mutation, and a vaccine that's 99.99 percent related won't protect you.' And they are weaker [than human vaccines]. 'Chickens are smaller and you only need to protect them for six weeks, because that's how long they live till you eat them,' said Dr. John J. Treanor, a vaccine expert at the University of Rochester. Human seasonal flu vaccines contain about 45 micrograms of antigen, while an experimental A(H5N1) vaccine contains 180. Chicken vaccines may contain less than 1 microgram. 'You have to be careful about extrapolating data from poultry to humans,' warned Dr. David E. Swayne, director of the agriculture department's Southeast Poultry Research Laboratory. 'Birds are more closely related to dinosaurs.'\" Researchers, led by Nicholas Savill of the University of Edinburgh in Scotland, used mathematical models to simulate the spread of H5N1 and concluded that \"at least 95 per cent of birds need to be protected to prevent the virus spreading silently. In practice, it is difficult to protect more than 90 per cent of a flock; protection levels achieved by a vaccine are usually much lower than this.\"\n\nReferring to the Fujian-like strain, an October 2006 National Academy of Sciences article reports: \"The development of highly pathogenic avian H5N1 influenza viruses in poultry in Eurasia accompanied with the increase in human infection in 2006 suggests that the virus has not been effectively contained and that the pandemic threat persists. [...] Serological studies suggest that H5N1 seroconversion in market poultry is low and that vaccination may have facilitated the selection of the Fujian-like sublineage. The predominance of this virus over a large geographical region within a short period directly challenges current disease control measures.\" The research team tested more than 53,000 birds in southern China from July 2005 through June 2006. 2.4% of the birds had H5N1, more than double the previous 0.9% rate. 68% them were in the new Fujian-like lineage. First detected in March 2005, it constituted 103 of 108 bird hosted isolates tested from April through June 2006, five Chinese human hosted isolates, 16 from Hong Kong birds, and two from Laos and Malaysia birds. Chickens in southern China were found to be poorly immunized against Fujian-like viruses in comparison with other sublineages. \"All the analyzed Fujian-like viruses had molecular characteristics that indicated sensitivity to oseltamivir, the first-choice antiviral drug for H5N1 infection. In addition, only six of the viruses had a mutation that confers resistance to amantadine, an older antiviral drug used to treat flu.\"\n\n\"China's official Xinhua news agency says a new bird flu outbreak has killed more than 3,000 chickens in the northwest. The Ministry of Agriculture told Xinhua that the July 14 outbreak in Xinjiang region's Aksu city is under control. No human infections have been reported. Saturday's report says the deadly H5N1 virus killed 3,045 chickens, and nearly 357,000 more were destroyed in an emergency response. Xinhua says the local agriculture department has quarantined the infected area. The government's last reported outbreak was in the northwestern region of Ningxia earlier this month.\"\n\nThe October 2006 National Academy of Sciences article also says: \"Updated virological and epidemiological findings from our market surveillance in southern China demonstrate that H5N1 influenza viruses continued to be panzootic in different types of poultry. Genetic and antigenic analyses revealed the emergence and predominance of a previously uncharacterized H5N1 virus sublineage (Fujian-like) in poultry since late 2005. Viruses from this sublineage gradually replaced those multiple regional distinct sublineages and caused recent human infection in China. These viruses have already transmitted to Hong Kong, Laos, Malaysia, and Thailand, resulting in a new transmission and outbreak wave in Southeast Asia.\"\n\nThe first known strain of HPAI A(H5N1) (called A/chicken/Scotland/59) killed two flocks of chickens in Scotland in 1959; but that strain was very different from the current highly pathogenic strain of H5N1. The dominant strain of HPAI A(H5N1) in 2004 evolved from 1999 to 2002 creating the Z genotype. It has also been called \"Asian lineage HPAI A(H5N1)\".\n\nH5N1 is an Influenza A virus subtype. Experts believe it might mutate into a form that transmits easily from person to person. If such a mutation occurs, it might remain an H5N1 subtype or could shift subtypes as did H2N2 when it evolved into the Hong Kong Flu strain of H3N2.\n\nH5N1 has mutated through antigenic drift into dozens of highly pathogenic varieties, but all currently belonging to genotype Z of avian influenza virus H5N1. Genotype Z emerged through reassortment in 2002 from earlier highly pathogenic genotypes of H5N1 that first appeared in China in 1996 in birds and in Hong Kong in 1997 in humans. The \"H5N1 viruses from human infections and the closely related avian viruses isolated in 2004 and 2005 belong to a single genotype, often referred to as genotype Z.\" \n\nIn July 2004, researchers led by H. Deng of the Harbin Veterinary Research Institute, Harbin, China and Professor Robert G. Webster of the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee, reported results of experiments in which mice had been exposed to 21 isolates of confirmed H5N1 strains obtained from ducks in China between 1999 and 2002. They found \"a clear temporal pattern of progressively increasing pathogenicity\". Results reported by Dr. Webster in July 2005 reveal further progression toward pathogenicity in mice and longer virus shedding by ducks.\n\nAsian lineage HPAI A(H5N1) is divided into two antigenic clades. \"Clade 1 includes human and bird isolates from Vietnam, Thailand, and Cambodia and bird isolates from Laos and Malaysia. Clade 2 viruses were first identified in bird isolates from China, Indonesia, Japan, and South Korea before spreading westward to the Middle East, Europe, and Africa. The clade 2 viruses have been primarily responsible for human H5N1 infections that have occurred during late 2005 and 2006, according to WHO. Genetic analysis has identified six subclades of clade 2, three of which have a distinct geographic distribution and have been implicated in human infections:\n\nOn 18 August 2006, the World Health Organization (WHO) changed the H5N1 avian influenza strains recommended for candidate vaccines for the first time since 2004. \"Many experts who follow the ongoing analysis of the H5N1 virus sequences are alarmed at how fast the virus is evolving into an increasingly more complex network of clades and subclades, Osterholm said. The evolving nature of the virus complicates vaccine planning. He said if an avian influenza pandemic emerges, a strain-specific vaccine will need to be developed to treat the disease. Recognition of the three new subclades means researchers face increasingly complex options about which path to take to stay ahead of the virus.\"\n\n\"Human disease associated with influenza A subtype H5N1 re-emerged in January 2003, for the first time since an outbreak in Hong Kong in 1997.\" Three people in one family were infected after visiting Fujian province in mainland China and 2 died. By midyear of 2003 outbreaks of poultry disease caused by H5N1 occurred in Asia, but were not recognized as such. That December animals in a Thai zoo died after eating infected chicken carcasses. Later that month H5N1 infection was detected in 3 flocks in the Republic of Korea. H5N1 in China in this and later periods is less than fully reported. Blogs have described many discrepancies between official China government announcements concerning H5N1 and what people in China see with their own eyes. Many reports of total H5N1 cases exclude China due to widespread disbelief in China's official numbers.\n\nAccording to the CDC article \"H5N1 Outbreaks and Enzootic Influenza\" by Robert G. Webster et al.:\"Transmission of highly pathogenic H5N1 from domestic poultry back to migratory waterfowl in western China has increased the geographic spread. The spread of H5N1 and its likely reintroduction to domestic poultry increase the need for good agricultural vaccines. In fact, the root cause of the continuing H5N1 pandemic threat may be the way the pathogenicity of H5N1 viruses is masked by cocirculating influenza viruses or bad agricultural vaccines.\" Dr. Robert Webster explains: \"If you use a good vaccine you can prevent the transmission within poultry and to humans. But if they have been using vaccines now [in China] for several years, why is there so much bird flu? There is bad vaccine that stops the disease in the bird but the bird goes on pooping out virus and maintaining it and changing it. And I think this is what is going on in China. It has to be. Either there is not enough vaccine being used or there is substandard vaccine being used. Probably both. It’s not just China. We can’t blame China for substandard vaccines. I think there are substandard vaccines for influenza in poultry all over the world.\" In response to the same concerns, Reuters reports Hong Kong infectious disease expert Lo Wing-lok saying, \"The issue of vaccines has to take top priority,\" and Julie Hall, in charge of the WHO's outbreak response in China, saying \"China's vaccinations might be masking the virus.\" The BBC reported that Dr Wendy Barclay, a virologist at the University of Reading, UK said: \"The Chinese have made a vaccine based on reverse genetics made with H5N1 antigens, and they have been using it. There has been a lot of criticism of what they have done, because they have protected their chickens against death from this virus but the chickens still get infected; and then you get drift - the virus mutates in response to the antibodies - and now we have a situation where we have five or six 'flavours' of H5N1 out there.\" \n\nIn October 2006, China and WHO traded accusations over the Fujian-like strain. Chinese authorities rejected the Fujian-like strain interpretation altogether saying \"Gene sequence analysis shows that all the variants of the virus found in southern China share high uniformity, meaning they all belong to the same gene type. No distinctive change was found in their biological characteristics.\" While a World Health Organization official in China renewed previous complaints that the Chinese have been stingy with information about H5N1 in poultry saying \"There's a stark contrast between what we're hearing from the researchers and what the Ministry of Agriculture says. Unless the ministry tells us what's going on and shares viruses on a regular basis, we will be doing diagnostics on strains that are old.\"\n\nIn November 2006, China and WHO traded favors over their H5N1 disagreements with a face-saving WHO apology and China promising to share more avian influenza virus samples. Also in November, Margaret Chan, a former top government health official for Hong Kong, was made Director-General elect of the WHO. The Chinese government said they \"would fully support her work in the WHO so that she could wholeheartedly carry out her responsibility and serve the health cause of the world.\"\n\nIn December 2006, Chinese authorities agreed that Fujian flu exists; but said that \"Anhui\" should replace the word \"Fujian\" in its name. Other names it has been called include \"waterfowl clade\" and \"clade 2.3\". (Or more specifically, \"Clade 2.3.4\")\n\nChina provided 20 H5N1 samples from birds in late 2006 gleaned from birds a year earlier and in 2006 shared a significant amount of H5N1 information generated by its labs. On 31 May 2007, for the first time is almost a year, China shared H5N1 avian flu virus samples taken from humans with WHO. The samples were taken from two people and arrived at a World Health Organization (WHO) laboratory in the United States that is part of CDC. A WHO official said that these are two of the three samples promised to WHO and have been sent by China's health ministry. The specimens are from a 2006 case from Xinjiang province in far western China and a 2007 case from Fujian province in the south. The third promised but not yet delivered sample is from a 24-year-old soldier who died in 2003. China previously sent six human H5N1 virus samples to WHO laboratories: two in December 2005 and four in May 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26892963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26892963", "title": "Georgy Agzamov", "text": "Georgy Agzamov\n\nGeorgy Tadzhikhanovich Agzamov (September 6, 1954, Tashkent – August 27, 1986, Sevastopol) was a Soviet chess Grandmaster, the first from Central Asia. He became an International Master in 1982 and was awarded the Grandmaster title in 1984.\n\nIn 1966, at the age of 12, he was the chess champion of his town of Almalyk (Olmaliq) in the province of Tashkent of central Uzbekistan.\n\nIn 1971, he took 2nd place in the USSR Junior Chess Championship, held in Riga.\n\nIn 1973, he played in his first Uzbekistani chess championship. He won the event in 1976 and 1981.\n\nHe was the first Grandmaster from Uzbekistan in 1984.\n\nHe was a philologist.\n\nBest results include first place at Belgrade 1982; 1st at Vršac 1983; 1st at Sochi 1984; 1st at Tashkent 1984; 1st at Bogotá 1984; 2nd at Potsdam 1985; 1st at Calcutta 1986.\n\nIn 1986, after finishing a chess tournament in Sevastopol in the Crimea, he was accidentally killed when he went hiking and fell off a cliff and became trapped between two rocks. Passers by heard his cries for help, but he was too deep down, and by the time rescue crews got to him, it was too late.\n\nHis highest Elo chess rating was 2590 on the January 1, 1985 FIDE rating list.\n\nSince 2007, an annual open chess tournament has been held in Tashkent in his memory.\n\n"}
{"id": "19027939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19027939", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Zimbabwe", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Zimbabwe\n\nThe 2012 Zimbabwe Demographic And Health Survey (ZDHS) estimated national HIV prevalence rates at 15%, meaning that they estimated 12% infection rate for men, and 18% for women. However, these numbers are based on data from pregnant women at antenatal clinics, which are notoriously unreliable in estimating national HIV prevalence rates, because the subset of the population used, pregnant women, are not statistically representative of the general population. No follow up testing is done if more than 10% of samples show a positive result after the initial test. As a result, false positives are not eliminated from the survey results.\n\nResponse rates and methodology: HIV prevalence data were obtained from testing dried blood spot (DBS) samples voluntarily provided by women age 15–49 and men age 15–54 who were interviewed in the 2010- 11 ZDHS. The DBS were collected using the finger stick method. Of the 18,554 eligible respondents, 75% were both interviewed and provided DBS specimens. Coverage rates were higher in rural areas (83%) than in urban areas (63%).\n\nRecent estimates from the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) indicate that approximately 1.6 million adults 15 years and older were living with HIV/AIDS in 2005. Despite the severity of the epidemic, prevalence rates in Zimbabwe have begun to show signs of decline, from 22.1 percent prevalence among adults ages 15 to 19 in 2003 to 20.1 percent prevalence in the same age group in 2005. Dr. Peter Piot, head of UNAIDS, said that in Zimbabwe, \"The declines in HIV rates have been due to changes in behaviour, including increased use of condoms, people delaying the first time they have sexual intercourse, and people having fewer sexual partners.\"\n\nTo justify these numbers, it is hypothesized that Zimbabwe would have to have a generalized HIV/AIDS epidemic with HIV transmitted primarily through heterosexual contact, meaning that HIV spreads as easily from women to men as from men to women, and mother-to-child transmission. However, there is no actual evidence that this is the case, in Zimbabwe, Africa or anywhere else in the world. \n\nHigh risk groups, including migrant laborers, people in prostitution, girls involved in intergenerational sexual relationships, discordant couples, and members of the uniformed services warrant special attention in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Young adults and women are hardest hit by the epidemic. In 2005, approximately 930,000 women over the age of 14 were estimated to be living with HIV/AIDS in Zimbabwe.\n\nZimbabwe continues to suffer a severe socioeconomic and political crisis, including unprecedented rates of inflation and a severe 'brain drain' of Zimbabwe's health care professionals. Elements of a previously well-maintained health care infrastructure are crumbling. Zimbabwe's HIV crisis is exacerbated by chronic food insecurity. Sub-optimal nutrition increases the vulnerability of individuals with compromised immune systems to life-threatening opportunistic infections, such as tuberculosis. Gender inequality and widespread practices of multiple and concurrent sexual relationships, and cross-generational sex fuel Zimbabwe's epidemic, particularly among youth. Social norms, including stigma associated with HIV/AIDS, excessive alcohol consumption, and a reluctance to talk about HIV status or sexual relations also create barriers to behavior change.\n\nHowever, the tide in the epidemic is now being reversed as more and more people are now accessing ARVs.\n"}
{"id": "89768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89768", "title": "HIV/AIDS in the United States", "text": "HIV/AIDS in the United States\n\nThe AIDS epidemic, caused by HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus), found its way to the United States as early as 1960, but was first noticed after doctors discovered clusters of Kaposi's sarcoma and pneumocystis pneumonia in young gay men in Los Angeles, New York City, and San Francisco in 1981. Treatment of HIV/AIDS is primarily via a \"drug cocktail\" of protease inhibitors, and education programs to help people avoid infection.\n\nInitially, infected foreign nationals were turned back at the U.S. border to help prevent additional infections. The number of U.S. deaths from AIDS have declined sharply since the early years of the disease's presentation domestically. In the United States, 1.2 million people live with an HIV infection, of whom 15% are unaware of their infection. Gay and bisexual men, African Americans, and Latinos remain disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS in the U.S.\n\n, about 675,000 people have died of HIV/AIDS in the U.S. since the beginning of the HIV epidemic.\n\nWith improved treatments and better prophylaxis against opportunistic infections, death rates have significantly declined.\n\nThe overall death rate among persons diagnosed with HIV/AIDS in New York City decreased by 62% from 2001 to 2012.\n\nGreat progress was made in the U.S. following the introduction of three-drug anti-HIV treatments (\"cocktails\") that included protease inhibitors. David Ho, a pioneer of this approach, was honored as \"Time Magazine\" Man of the Year for 1996. Deaths were rapidly reduced by more than half, with a small but welcome reduction in the yearly rate of new HIV infections. Since this time, AIDS deaths have continued to decline, but much more slowly, and not as completely in black Americans as in other population segments.\n\nThe second prong of the American approach to containment has been to maintain strict entry controls to the country for people with HIV or AIDS. Under legislation enacted by the United States Congress in 1993, patients found importing anti-HIV medication into the country were arrested and placed on flights back to their country of origin.\n\nSome HIV-positive travellers took to sending anti-HIV medication through the post to friends or contacts in advocacy groups in advance. This meant that the traveller would not be discovered with any medication. However, the security clampdown following the September 11 attacks in 2001 meant this was no longer an option.\n\nThe only legal alternative to this was to apply for a special visa beforehand, which entailed an interview at an American Embassy, confiscation of the passport during the lengthy application process, and then, if permission were granted, a permanent attachment being made to the applicant's passport.\n\nThis process was condemned as intrusive and invasive by a number of advocacy groups, on the grounds that any time the passport was later used for travel elsewhere or for identification purposes, the holder's HIV status would become known. It was also felt that this rule was unfair because it applied even if the traveller was covered for HIV-related conditions under their own travel insurance.\n\nIn early December 2006, President George W. Bush indicated that he would issue an executive order allowing HIV-positive people to enter the United States on standard visas. It was unclear whether applicants would still have to declare their HIV status. However, the ban remained in effect throughout Bush's Presidency. In August 2007, Congressperson Barbara Lee of California introduced , the HIV Nondiscrimination in Travel and Immigration Act of 2007. This bill would have allowed travelers and immigrants entry to the United States without having to disclose their HIV status. The bill died at the end of the 110th Congress.\n\nIn July 2008, then President George W. Bush signed that lifted the ban in statutory law. However, the United States Department of Health and Human Services still held the ban in administrative (written regulation) law. New impetus was added to repeal efforts when Paul Thorn, a UK tuberculosis expert who was invited to speak at the 2009 Pacific Health Summit in Seattle, was denied a visa due to his HIV positive status. A letter written by Mr. Thorn, and read in his place at the Summit, was attained by Congressman Jim McDermott, who advocated the issue to the Obama administration's Health Secretary.\n\nOn October 30, 2009 President Barack Obama reauthorized the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Bill which expanded care and treatment through federal funding to nearly half a million. He also announced that the Department of Health and Human Services crafted regulation that would end the HIV Travel and Immigration Ban effective in January 2010; on January 4, 2010, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention removed HIV infection from the list of \"communicable diseases of public health significance,\" due to it not being spread by casual contact, or by air, food or water, and removed HIV status as a factor to be considered in the granting of travel visas, disallowing HIV status from among the diseases that could prevent people who are not U.S. citizens from entering the country.\n\nOne of the best known works on the history of HIV is 1987's book \"And the Band Played On\", by Randy Shilts. Shilts contends that Ronald Reagan's administration dragged its feet in dealing with the crisis due to homophobia, while the gay community viewed early reports and public health measures with corresponding distrust, thus allowing the disease to infect hundreds of thousands more. This resulted in the formation of ACT-UP, the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power by Larry Kramer. Galvanized by the federal government's inactivity, the movement by AIDS activists to gain funding for AIDS research, which on a per-patient basis out-paced funding for more prevalent diseases such as cancer and heart disease, was used as a model for future lobbying for health research funding.\n\nThe Shilts work popularized the misconception that the disease was introduced by a gay flight attendant named Gaëtan Dugas, referred to as \"Patient Zero,\" although the author did not actually make this claim in the book. However, subsequent research has revealed that there were cases of AIDS much earlier than initially known. HIV-infected blood samples have been found from as early as 1959 in Africa \"(see HIV main entry)\", and HIV has been shown to have caused the death of Robert Rayford, a 16-year-old St. Louis male, in 1969, who could have contracted it as early as 7 years old due to sexual abuse, suggesting that HIV had been present, at very low prevalence, in the U.S. since before the 1970s.\n\nAn early theory asserted that a series of inoculations against hepatitis B that were performed in the gay community of San Francisco were tainted with HIV. Although there was a high correlation between recipients of that vaccination and initial cases of AIDS, this theory has long been discredited. HIV, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C are bloodborne diseases with very similar modes of transmission, and those at risk for one are at risk for the others.\n\nActivists and critics of current AIDS policies allege that another preventable impediment to stemming the spread of the disease and/or finding a treatment was the vanity of \"celebrity\" scientists. Robert Gallo, an American scientist involved in the search for a new virus in the people affected by the disease, became embroiled in a legal battle with French scientist Luc Montagnier, who had first discovered such a virus in tissue cultures derived from a patient suffering from enlargement of the lymphnodes (an early sign of AIDS). Montagnier had named the new virus LAV (Lymphoadenopathy-Associated Virus).\n\nGallo, who appeared to question the primacy of the French scientist's discovery, refused to recognize the \"French virus\" as the cause of AIDS, and tried instead to claim the disease was caused by a new member of a retrovirus family, HTLV, which he had discovered. Critics claim that because some scientists were more interested in trying to win a Nobel prize than in helping patients, research progress was delayed and more people needlessly died. After a number of meetings and high-level political intervention, the French scientists and Gallo agreed to \"share\" the discovery of HIV, although eventually Montagnier and his group were recognized as the true discoverers, and won the 2008 Nobel Prize for it.\n\nPublicity campaigns were started in attempts to counter the incorrect and often vitriolic perception of AIDS as a \"gay plague\". These included the Ryan White case, red ribbon campaigns, celebrity dinners, the 1993 film version of \"And the Band Played On\", sex education programs in schools, and television advertisements. Announcements by various celebrities that they had contracted HIV (including actor Rock Hudson, basketball star Magic Johnson, tennis player Arthur Ashe and singer Freddie Mercury) were significant in arousing media attention and making the general public aware of the dangers of the disease to people of all sexual orientations.\n\nBlacks/African Americans continue to experience the most severe burden of HIV, compared with other races and ethnicities. Black people represent approximately 12% of the U.S. population, but accounted for an estimated 44% of new HIV infections in 2010. Even more daunting is that they make up nearly 52% of AIDS-related deaths in America. While the overall rates of HIV incidences and prevalence have decreased, they have increased in one particular demographic: African American gay and bisexual men (a 4% increase). While the factors above contribute to overall inability to generate a suppressed viral load, socioeconomic status and institutionalized discrimination in the healthcare setting plays a big role in determining one's ability to live with HIV. In America, black households were reported to have the lowest median income, leading to lower rates of insured individuals. This creates cost barriers to antiretroviral treatments. Moreover, African American HIV positive individuals were less likely to be prescribed antiretroviral treatments and less likely to be referred to HIV treatment centers. A number of other systematic factors contribute to this disparity, including cultural stigma, lack of education in affected communities, and lack of awareness.\n\nHispanics/Latinos are also disproportionately affected by HIV. Hispanics/Latinos represented 16% of the population but accounted for 21% of new HIV infections in 2010. Hispanics/Latinos accounted for 20% of people living with HIV infection in 2011. Disparities persist in the estimated rate of new HIV infections in Hispanics/Latinos. In 2010, the rate of new HIV infections for Latino males was 2.9 times that for white males, and the rate of new infections for Latinas was 4.2 times that for white females. Since the epidemic began, more than 100,888 Hispanics/Latinos with an AIDS diagnosis have died, including 2,155 in 2012.\n\nDown-low is an African American slang term that typically refers to a subculture of Black men who usually identify as heterosexual, but who have sex with men; some avoid sharing this information even if they have female sexual partner(s) married or single.\n\nAccording to a study published in the Journal of Bisexuality, \"[t]he Down Low is a lifestyle predominately practiced by young, urban Black men who have sex with other men and women, yet do not identify as gay or bisexual\".\n\nIn this context, \"being on the Down Low\" is more than just men having sex with men in secret, or a variant of closeted homosexuality or bisexuality—it is a sexual identity that is, at least partly, defined by its \"cult of masculinity\" and its rejection of what is perceived as White culture (including white LGBT culture) and terms. A 2003 \"New York Times Magazine\" cover story on the Down Low phenomenon explains that the Black community sees \"homosexuality as a White man's perversion.\"\n\nThe CDC cited three findings that relate to African-American men who operate on the down-low (engage in MSM activity but don't disclose to others):\n\n\nAccessibility to healthcare is very important in preventing and treating HIV/AIDs. It can be affected by health insurance which is available to people through private insurers, Medicare and Medicaid which leaves some people still vulnerable. Historically, African Americans have faced discrimination when it comes to receiving healthcare. During the time of slavery, slave owners would get medical attention for slaves because they were deemed as property, while slaves that the slave owners believed were not able to recover were sent to be experimented on. In the late eighteenth century and early nineteenth century, universities dug up African American bodies to autopsy, and some night doctors would snatch people off the streets to examine. African Americans have been experimented on and exploited for centuries. The Tuskegee Syphilis study experimented vulnerable men in the South who had syphilis. They kept treatment from these men to see what would happen. Henrietta Lacks was also exploited when researchers took her cancerous cells and grew them to experiment on them.\n\nHomosexuality is viewed negatively in the African American Community. \"In a qualitative study of 745 racially and ethnic diverse undergraduates attending a large Midwestern university, Calzo and Ward (2009) determined that parents of African-American participants discussed homosexuality more frequently than the parents of other respondents. In analyses of the values communicated, Calzo and Ward (2009) reported that Black parents offered greater indication that homosexuality is perverse and unnatural\".\n\nHomosexuality is seen as a threat to the African American empowerment. Masculinity is seen as important for the African American community because it shows that the community is in control of their own destiny. Since the stigma circling homosexuality is that it is “feminite”, then homosexuality is seen as a threat to masculinity. “Black manhood, then, depends on men's ability to be provider, progenitor, and protector. But, as the Black male performance of parts of this script is thwarted by racism and capitalist patriarchy, the performance of Black masculinity becomes predicated on a particular performance of Black sexuality and avoidance of weakness and femininity. If sexuality remains one of the few ways that Black men can recapture a masculinity withheld from them in the marketplace, endorsing Black homosexuality subverts the cultural project of reinscribing masculinity within the Black community.\" This critical view is influenced by Internalized homophobia. “Internalized homophobia is defined as the lesbian, gay, or bisexual individual's inward direction of society's homophobic attitudes (Meyer 1995).\"\n\nThe African American community's social norms regarding homosexuality have influenced a higher percentage of African Americans with internalized homophobia. This homophobic culture is sustained within the African American community through the church because religion is a vital part of the African American community: \"As reported by Peterson and Jones (2009), AA MSM tended to be more involved with religious communities than NHW MSM.\" Because the church reiterates this stigma of homosexuality, the African American community has higher rates of internalized homophobia. This internalized homophobia causes a lower chance of HIV/AIDS education on prevention and care within the African American community.\n\nSex education varies throughout the United States and in some areas could use more informative measures. African-Americans and Hispanic/ Latinos experience higher rates of lower socioeconomic statuses and fewer opportunities than white people. This causes limited access to (higher) education in lower socioeconomic areas. Sex education on HIV prevention has decreased from 64% (2000) to 41% (2014). Out of the 50 states, 26 put a larger emphasis on abstinence sex education. Abstinence only sex education is correlated to increasing rates of HIV especially in teenagers and young adults.\n\nWith mass incarceration of the African American community, HIV has been spreading rapidly throughout jails and prisons. “Among jail populations, African American men are 5 times as likely as white men, and twice as likely as Hispanic/Latino men, to be diagnosed with HIV.” Since most people contract HIV before being incarcerated, it is hard to know who has the disease and to keep it from spreading. A lack of hygiene in prisons perpetuates these problems. Many inmates do not disclose their high-risk behaviors, such as anal sex or injection drug use, because they fear being stigmatized and ostracized by other inmates.There is also a lack of educational programs on disease prevention for inmates. Because “nine out of ten jail inmates are released in under 72 hours which makes it hard to test them for HIV and help them find treatment,” the problem persists outside of prison.\n\nStarting in the early 1980s, AIDS activist groups and organizations began to emerge and advocate for people infected with HIV in the United States. Though it was an important aspect of the movement, activism went beyond the pursuit of funding for AIDS research. Groups acted to educate and raise awareness of the disease and its effects on different populations, even those thought to be at low-risk of contracting HIV. This was done through publications and “alternative media” created by those living with or close to the disease.\n\nActivist groups worked to prevent spread of HIV by distributing information about safe sex. They also existed to support people living with HIV/AIDS, offering therapy, support groups, and hospice care. Organizations like Gay Men's Health Crisis, the Lesbian AIDS Project, and SisterLove were created to address the needs of certain populations living with HIV/AIDS. Other groups, like the NAMES Project, emerged as a way of memorializing those who had passed, refusing to let them be forgotten by the historical narrative. One group, the Association for Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT), headed by Yolanda Serrano, corridinated with their local prison, Riker's Island Correctional Facility, to advocate for those imprisoned and AIDS positive to be released early, so that they could pass away in the comfort of their own homes.\n\nBoth men and women, heterosexual and queer populations were active in establishing and maintaining these parts of the movement. Because AIDS was initially thought only to impact gay men, most narratives of activism focus on their contributions to the movement. However, women also played a significant role in raising awareness, rallying for change, and caring for those impacted by the disease. Lesbians helped organize and spread information about transmission between women, as well as supporting gay men in their work. Narratives of activism also tend to focus on organizing done in coastal cities, but AIDS activism was present and widespread across both urban and more rural areas of the United States. Organizers sought to address needs specific to their communities, whether that was working to establish needle exchange programs, fighting against housing or employment discrimination, or issues faced primarily by people identified as members of specific groups (such as sex workers, mothers and children, or incarcerated people).\n\nAn effective response to HIV/AIDS requires that groups of vulnerable populations have access to HIV prevention programs with information and services that are specific to them. In the present day, some activist groups and AIDS organizations that were established during the height of the epidemic are still present and working to assist people living with AIDS. They may offer any combination of the following: health education, counseling and support, or advocacy for law and policy. AIDS organizations also continue to call for public awareness and support through participation in events like pride parades, World AIDS Day, or AIDS walks.\n\nThe CDC estimates that 1,122,900 U.S. residents aged 13 years and older are living with HIV infection , including 162,500 (15%) who are unaware of their infection. Over the past decade, the number of people living with HIV has increased, while the annual number of new HIV infections has declined to about 40,000 new HIV infections. Within the overall estimates, however, some groups are affected more than others. MSM continue to bear the greatest burden of HIV infection, and among races/ethnicities, African Americans continue to be disproportionately affected.\n\nAn estimated 15,458 people with an AIDS diagnosis died in 2015, and approximately 658,507 people in the United States with an AIDS diagnosis have died overall. The deaths of persons with an AIDS diagnosis can be due to any cause—that is, the death may or may not be related to AIDS.\n\nIn California alone, 184,429 HIV cases (including children) were reported by December 2008. Of those, 85,958 have died, with 31,076 in Los Angeles County, 18,838 in San Francisco, and 7,135 in San Diego County.\n\nIn 2015, 48,824 people were living with HIV (not AIDS) in the state of New York, with 38,441 in New York City alone.\n\nWashington, DC has a particularly high incidence of HIV/AIDS, with 177 new cases annually per 100,000 people , more than nine times higher than any state.\n\nIn the United States, men who have sex with men (MSM), described as gay and bisexual, make up about 55% of the total HIV-positive population, and 67% of new HIV cases and 83% of the estimated new HIV diagnoses among \"all\" males aged 13 and older, and an estimated 92% of new HIV diagnoses among all men in their age group (2014 report). 1 in 6 gay and bisexual men are therefore expected to be diagnosed with HIV in their lifetime if current rates continue. Gay and bisexual men accounted for an estimated 54% of people diagnosed with AIDS, with 39% being African American, 32% being white, and 24% being Hispanic/Latino. The CDC estimates that more than 600,000 gay and bisexual men are currently living with HIV in the United States. A review of four studies in which trans women in the United States were tested for HIV found that 27.7% tested positive.\n\nIn a 2008 study, the Center for Disease Control found that, of the study participants who were men who had sex with men (\"MSM\"), almost one in five (19%) had HIV and \"among those who were infected, nearly half (44 percent) were unaware of their HIV status.\" The research found that white MSM \"represent a greater number of new HIV infections than any other population, followed closely by black MSM — who are one of the most disproportionately affected subgroups in the U.S.\" and that most new infections among white MSM occurred among those aged 30–39 followed closely by those aged 40–49, while most new infections among black MSM have occurred among young black MSM (aged 13–29).\n\nIn 2015, a major HIV outbreak, Indiana's largest-ever, occurred in two largely rural, economically depressed and poor counties in the southern portion of the state, due to the injection of a relatively new opioid-type drug called Opana (oxymorphone), which is designed be taken in pill form but is ground up and injected intravenously using needles. Because of the lack of HIV cases in that area beforehand and the youth of many but not all of those affected, the relative unavailability in the local area of safe needle exchange programs and of treatment centers capable of dealing with long-term health needs, HIV care, and drug addiction during the initial phases of the outbreak, it was not initially adequately contained and dealt with until those were set up by the government, and acute awareness of the issue spread. Such centers have now been opened, and short-term care is beginning to be provided; once the scope of the outbreak became clear, Governor Mike Pence, despite some initial reservations, approved a legislative measure to allow safe, clean needle exchange programs and treatment for those affected, which could end up being instituted statewide.\n\n\nInternational:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10180701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10180701", "title": "HLL Lifecare", "text": "HLL Lifecare\n\nHLL Lifecare Limited (formerly Hindustan Latex Limited) (HLL) is an Indian healthcare products manufacturing company based in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India. A Government of India-owned corporation (Public-sector undertaking).\n\nIt produces health care products, including: condoms, contraceptive pills, IUDs, surgical sutures, blood bags and Pharma products . One of HLL's contraceptive products is ormeloxifene, branded as \"Saheli\", the world’s first and only oral non-hormonal, non-steroidal oral contraceptive, taken as a weekly pill. In 2012, HLL announced a polymerase chain reaction based duplex test kit for chikungunya and dengue fever tests in collaboration with the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, Trivandrum. In December 2015, they have tied up with the Government of India in setting up Amrit pharmacies across India for providing cheaper medicines for Cancer and Cardiovascular disorders.\n\nIn 2005, HLL established LifeSpring Hospitals, a 50-50 joint venture with the Acumen Fund, a U.S.-based nonprofit global venture philanthropy fund, to provide low-cost maternity services, starting at Hyderabad. Today it has nine hospitals across Andhra Pradesh state.\n\nIn February 2014, HLL acquired 74% Equity in Goa Antibiotics and Pharmaceuticals Ltd.\n\nOn 8 January 2018, the Government of India approved the privatization of HLL Lifecare.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49833170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49833170", "title": "Harborside Health Center", "text": "Harborside Health Center\n\nHarborside, formerly Harborside Health Center is a medical cannabis dispensary, with its flagship location in Oakland, California, and a second location in San Jose. Founded in 2006 by longtime activist and entrepreneur, Steve DeAngelo, Harborside operates as a non-profit patient collective. In December 2011, Harborside Health Center was featured in the Discovery Channel's four-part documentary series, \"Weed Wars\".\nIn June 2013 CNN premiered \"Inside Man\", an 8-episode documentary hosted and produced by Morgan Spurlock. The show's first episode provided a detailed, inside look at California's medical marijuana industry and featured Spurlock working in Harborside Health Center, as well as it described the legal troubles of the center.\n\nIt is considered to be the largest nonprofit medical cannabis dispensary in the state, if not the nation.\n\nIn the summer of 2012, Northern District of California U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag filed civil forfeiture actions against the landlords of Harborside Health Center's two locations, in an effort to evict the dispensary. Harborside challenged the evictions in state court, maintaining its compliance with state and local laws. A Superior Court judge dismissed the Oakland eviction, noting that the lease explicitly stated the use of the premises for the distribution of medical marijuana. The City of Oakland rallied behind Harborside and attempted to join the dispensary in the fight, but a judge overruled their action. In 2015 three members of Congress from California—Reps. Sam Farr, Dana Rohrabacher and Barbara Lee—released a statement in support of Harborside, saying that the US Department of Justice \"has overstepped its bounds\" and \"is not acting within the spirit or the letter of the law nor in the best interests of the people who depend on Harborside for reliable, safe medical marijuana.\" In May 2016, the Department of Justice dropped the 4 year case against Harborside Health Center.\n\nHarborside Health Center was the first medical cannabis dispensary to introduce lab testing. The dispensary also offers its patient-members an array of free wellness services, including acupuncture, yoga, Reiki and others. Harborside was the first marijuana organization to broadcast the administration of the non-psychoactive cannabinoid, CBD, to a child afflicted with Dravet syndrome, a rare form of epilepsy (\"Weed Wars,\" Episode 3).\n\nBeginning 1 January 2018, Harborside began retail sales to adults. All adults over the age of 21 with a valid ID may enter.\n"}
{"id": "49887467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49887467", "title": "Haridra Nadhi", "text": "Haridra Nadhi\n\nHaridra Nadhi is the largest temple tank in India, may be in the World. It is in Mannargudi, Thiruvarur District of Tamil Nadu. This is the largest temple tank among all of the Hindu temple. The Rajagopalaswamy Temple, Mannargudi.\n\nThe area of the temple tank is 23 acres\n\nHaridhra Nadhi is the temple tank of the Rajagopalaswamy Temple of the famous town of Mannargudi of Thiruvarur district. The Rajagopalaswamy temple is a vaishnavite temple of the deity Rajagopalaswamy(Krishna). This is the place where sages performed penance for the darshan of Lord. This theertha is considered as Jamuna River-Yamuna- and is praised as Haridra Nadhi. The float festival is celebrated here on Aani Poornima day in June–July.\n"}
{"id": "15977288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15977288", "title": "Healthcare in Brazil", "text": "Healthcare in Brazil\n\nHealthcare in Brazil is a constitutional right. It is provided by both private and government institutions. The Health Minister administers national health policy. Primary healthcare remains the responsibility of the federal government, elements of which (such as the operation of hospitals) are overseen by individual states. Public healthcare is provided to all Brazilian permanent residents and foreigners in Brazilian territory through the National Healthcare System, known as the Unified Health System (, SUS). The SUS is universal and free for everyone.\n\nNational health policies and plans: The national health policy is based on the Federal Constitution of 1988, which sets out the principles and directives for the delivery of healthcare in the country through the Unified Health System (SUS). Under the constitution, the activities of the federal government are to be based on multiyear plans approved by the national congress for four-year periods. The essential objectives for the health sector were improvement of the overall health situation, with emphasis on reduction of child mortality, and political-institutional reorganization of the sector, with a view to enhancing the operative capacity of the SUS. The plan for the next period (2000–2003) reinforces the previous objectives and prioritizes measures to ensure access at activities and services, improve care, and consolidate the decentralization of SUS management.\n\nThe current legal provisions governing the operation of the health system, instituted in 1996, seek to shift responsibility for administration of the SUS to municipal governments, with technical and financial cooperation from the federal government and states. Another regionalization initiative is the creation of health consortia, which pools the resources of several neighbouring municipalities. A vital instrument of support for regionalization is the project for strengthening and reorganizing the SUS.\n\nProcedures for the registration, control, and labelling of foods are established under federal legislation, which assigns specific responsibilities to the health and agriculture sectors. In the health sector, health inspection activities have been decentralized to the state and municipal governments. The environmental policy derives from specific legislation and from the Constitution of 1988.\n\nThe main strategy for strengthening primary healthcare is the Family Health Program, introduced by the municipal health secretariats in collaboration with the states and the Ministry of Public Health. The federal government supplies technical support and transfers funding through Piso de Atenção Básica. Disease prevention and control activities follow guidelines established by technical experts in the Ministry of Public Health. The National Epidemiology Center (CENEPI), an agency of the National Health Foundation (FUNASA) coordinates the national epidemiological surveillance system, which provides information about and analysis of the national health situation.\n\nIn 2014 there were 6,706 hospitals in Brazil. Over 50% of hospitals are found in 5 states: São Paulo, Minas Gerais, Bahia, Rio de Janeiro and Parana.\nThroughout the country, 78% of hospitals practice general medicine while 16% are specialized and 6% provide outpatient care only.\nIn 2012, 66% of the country's hospitals, 70% of its 485,000 hospital beds, and 87% of its 723 specialized hospitals belonged to the private sector. In the area of diagnostic support and therapy, 95% of the 7,318 establishments were also private. 73% of the 41,000 ambulatory care facilities were operated by the public.\nThe public hospital infrastructure required hospitals to be spread over a territory of . As such, the public hospital infrastructure relies on a vast network of small hospitals. Over 55% of public hospitals have less than 50 beds.\nHospital beds in the public sector were distributed as follows: surgery (21%), clinical medicine (30%), pediatrics (17%), obstetrics (14%), psychiatry (11%) and other areas (7%). In the same year, 43% of public hospital beds, and half the hospital admissions were in municipal establishments. \nSince 1999, the Ministry of Public Health has been carrying out a health surveillance project in Amazonia that includes epidemiological and environmental health surveillance, indigenous health and disease control components. With US 600 million dollars from a World Bank loan, efforts are being made to improve the operational infrastructure, training of human resources and research studies. An estimated 25% of the population is covered by at least one form of health insurance; 75% of the insurance plans are offered by commercial operators and companies with self-managed plans.\n\nBrazil is among the greatest consumers markets for drugs, accounting for 3.5% share of the world market. To expand the access of the population to drugs, incentives have been offered for marketing generic products, which cost an average of 40% less than brand-name products. In 2000, there were 14 industries authorized to produce generic drugs and about 200 registered generic drugs were being produced in 601 different forms. In 1998, the National Drug Policy was approved, whose purpose is to ensure safety, efficacy, and quality of drugs, as well as the promotion of rational use and access for the population to essential products. The responsibility for national production of immunobiologicals is entrusted to public laboratories; which have a long-standing tradition of producing vaccines and sera for use in official programs. The Ministry of Public Health invested some US$120 million in the development of the capacity of these laboratories. In 2000, the supply of products was sufficient to meet the need for heterologous sera, such as those used in the vaccines against tuberculosis, measles, diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough, yellow fever, and rabies. In 1999, quality control of the transfused blood consisted of 26 coordinating centers and by 44 regional centers.\n\nIn 1999, the country had some 237,000 physicians, 145,000 dentists, 77,000 nurses, 26,000 dietitians and 56,000 veterinarians. The national average ratio was of 14 physicians per 10,000 population. In 1999, of the 665,000 professional positions, 65% were occupied by physicians, followed by nurses (11%), dentists (8%), pharmacists, biochemists (3.2%), physical therapists (2.8%) and by other professionals (10%). An estimated 1.4 million health sector jobs are occupied by technical and auxiliary personnel. \n\nIn 2009, for the first time, more new medical licenses were given for women than for men.\n\nAs of 2010, the country had 364,757 physicians. In 2011, there were 1.95 physicians for each 1000 Brazilians, with higher concentrations in south, southeast and mid-western than in north and northeastern Brazil. For each 1000 private health insurance users there were 7.6 occupied work posts for physicians, and for each 1000 Sistema Único de Saúde users, there were 1.95 occupied work posts for physicians, making an average of 3.33 occupied work posts for physicians for each 1000 Brazilians. As to the distribution of physicians between medical specialties and primary care, 55.09% of all Brazilian physicians were specialists.\n\nIn 1998 national health expenditure amounted to US$62,000 million, which corresponded to nearly 7.9% of GDP. Of that total, public spending accounted for 41.2% and private expenditure accounted for 58.8%. In per capita terms, public spending is estimated at US$158 and private expenditure at US$225.\n\nTechnical cooperation projects are carried out with different countries, as well as with the World Bank and UNESCO among many others. International foundations also provide direct financing for projects or individuals. Brazil is also engaged in an intense exchange with the Mercosul countries, aimed at establishing common health regulations.\n\nBrazilian emergency medical service is locally called SAMU (\"Serviço de Atendimento Móvel de Urgência (Mobile Emergency Attendance Service)\"). Emergency medicine (EM) is not a new field in Brazil. In 2002, the Ministry of Health outlined a document, the \"Portaria 2048,\" which called upon the entire health care system to improve emergency care in order to address the increasing number of victims of road traffic accidents and violence, as well as the overcrowding of emergency departments (EDs) resulting from an overwhelmed primary care infrastructure. The document delineates standards of care for staffing, equipment, medications and services appropriate for both pre-hospital and in-hospital. It further explicitly describes the areas of knowledge that an emergency provider should master in order to adequately provide care. However, these recommendations have no enforcement mechanism and, as a result, emergency services in Brazil still lack a consistent standard of care.\n\nPre-hospital emergency medical services use a combination of basic ambulances staffed by technicians and advanced units with physicians on board. No universal phone number exists for emergency calls, and the dispatch center physician determines whether the call merits an emergency transport or not. Pre-hospital physicians have variable training in emergency care, with training backgrounds ranging from internal medicine to obstetrics to surgery.\n\nSimilar to the early years of EM in the United States, emergency department physicians in Brazil come from different specialty backgrounds, many of them having taken the job as a form of supplementary income or as a result of unsuccessful private clinical practice. Since 50% of medical school graduates in Brazil do not get residency positions, these new physicians with minimal clinical training look for work in emergency departments. In larger tertiary hospitals, the ED is divided into the main specialty areas, internal medicine, surgery, psychiatry, pediatrics, and staffed by the corresponding physicians. Still, significant delays in care can occur when patients are inappropriately triaged or when communication between the areas is inadequate. In the non-tertiary care centers, which make up the majority of hospitals in the country, emergency department physicians are largely under-trained, underpaid and overstressed by their working conditions. This has compromised patient care and created an incredible need for improvement in the emergency care system.\n\nA current plan in action in Brazil called the CATCH plan (Commission for the Advancement of Technology for Communications and Health). Funding is provided by the WHO, ITU, and voluntary countries and benefactors for existing and future projects. This CATCH program approbates the best advancements to accommodate the nation of Brazil's health issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "83945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83945", "title": "Islamic dietary laws", "text": "Islamic dietary laws\n\nIslamic jurisprudence specifies which foods are ( \"lawful\") and which are ( \"unlawful\"). This is derived from commandments found in the Qur'an, the holy book of Islam, as well as the Hadith and Sunnah, libraries cataloging things the Islamic prophet Muhammad is reported to have said and done. Extensions of these rulings are issued, as fatwas, by mujtahids, with varying degrees of strictness, but they are not always widely held to be authoritative.\n\nAccording to the Quran, the only foods explicitly forbidden are meat from animals that die of themselves, blood, the meat of pigs, and any food dedicated to other than God.\n\nHowever, a person would not be guilty of sin in a situation where the lack of any alternative creates an undesired necessity to consume that which is otherwise unlawful. (Quran 2:173) This is the \"law of necessity\" in Islamic jurisprudence: \"That which is necessary makes the forbidden permissible.\"\n\nDhabīḥah (ذَبِيْحَة) is a prescribed method of ritual animal slaughter; it does not apply to most aquatic animals. The animal must be slaughtered while mentioning the name of God (Allah in Arabic). According to some fatwas, the animal must be slaughtered specifically by a Muslim; however, other fatwas dispute this, ruling that, according to verse 5:5 of the Qurʼan, an animal properly slaughtered by People of the Book is halal. The animal slaughtered must be killed quickly with a sharpened blade.\n\nIt must not suffer. It must not see the blade. It must not see or smell the blood from a previous slaughter. The main logic given by Islamic clerics is the significance of life. Many clerics argue that the life, given by God, is not an insignificant gift therefore no entity except God has the right to take this valuable gift away and by mentioning the God's name you imply that command of God.\n\nAnimals for food may not be killed by being boiled or electrocuted, and the carcass should be hung upside down for long enough to be free of blood. All water game is considered halal (although the Hanafi madhhab differs on this): \"Lawful to you is game from the sea and its food as provision for you [who are settled] as well as for travellers, although you are forbidden to hunt on land while you are in the state of pilgrimage. And be conscious of God, unto whom you shall be gathered.\" (Qurʼan 5:96.)\n\nA variety of substances are considered as unlawful (haram) for humans to consume and, therefore, forbidden as per various Qurʼanic verses:\n\n\nQuranic verses which have information regarding halal foods include: 2:173, 5:5, and 6:118–119, 121.\n\nIn Islam, consumption of any intoxicants (\"khamr\", specifically, alcoholic beverages) is generally forbidden in the Qur'an through several separate verses revealed at different times over a period of years.\n\nAt first, it was forbidden for Muslims to attend prayers while intoxicated. In addition to this, most observant Muslims refrain from consuming food products that contain pure vanilla extract or soy sauce, as these food products may contain alcohol. There is some debate about whether the prohibition extends to dishes in which the alcohol would be cooked off or if it would be practically impossible to consume enough of the food to become intoxicated.\n\nSubstances which are intoxicants are not prohibited as such, although their consumption is. For example, alcohol can be used as a disinfectant or for cleaning, but not as a beverage.\n\nThe Alevi Muslims of Turkey permit alcohol, unlike many other denominations. Ismaili Muslims are also noted for discouraging, rather than prohibiting, alcohol. The Zaidi and Mutazili sects believe that the use of alcohol has always been forbidden and refer to the Qur'an Ayah (4:43) as feeling of sleepiness and not to be awake.\n\nA fatwa issued in November 2015 permitted the consumption of low-alcohol and non-alcoholic beverages provided that the given beverage contains an amount of 0.5% or the like of alcohol does not entail deeming its consumption unlawful as long as there is no effect of the alcohol upon consumption of the beverage and it does not intoxicate in large quantities.\n\nMuhammad ibn al Uthaymeen, a Salafi scholar of Saudi Arabia was once asked about the so called (non-alcoholic) beer, given that some brands of non-alcoholic beer have a percentage of alcohol. The following was part of his reply:\n\nThe Fatwa of the Permanent Committee reads,\n\nAnimal who dies of itself i.e., carrion\n\nBlood and its by-products are forbidden in Islam, in the Qurʼan, surah 5, al-Maʼidah, verse 3:\n\nConsumption of pork and products made from pork is strictly forbidden in Islam. The origin of this prohibition is in Surat al-Baqarah:\n\nAnimal dedicated to or slaughtered at the name of a human being or saint is prohibited.\n\nAn animal slaughtered by following methods is prohibited.\nThe Hanafi school of Islamic jurisprudence forbids consumption of seafood other than \"fish\" with scholars in disagreement about whether prawns/shrimp are \"fish\", but in agreement that crocodiles, crabs, lobsters, mollusks are not. al-Fatawa al-Hindiyya, 5/289-291, Bada’i al-Sana’i, 5/35-39 and Radd al-Muhtar, 304-308. Moreover, certain lower animals are considered haram, including land animals without blood, such as a hornet, insects, spiders, scorpions, with the singular exception of locusts. Surah al-A’raf, V: 157; Sunan Abu Dawud, no: 3806. Most reptiles are also considered haram, including chameleons, lizards, and snakes, as are most pests (\"hasharat al-Ardh\") such as mice and rats. Surah al-A’raf, V: 157. A difference of opinion remains on whether consumption of horse, mule, and donkey are permitted. In the Quran, one finds this verse: “And (He has created) horses, mules, and donkeys, for you to ride and use for show; and He has created (other) things of which you have no knowledge.” Surah al-Nahl, V: 8. Which some scholars have interpreted as limiting these animals for riding and show and not permitting their consumption. Musnad Ahmad, 4/89, Sunan Abu Dawud, no: 3790, Sunan Nasa’i and Sunan Ibn Majah; Sahih al-Bukhari, no: 5202, 5205, and 5208. Predatory animals, such as lions and tigers, and birds of prey, such as falcons and hawks are forbidden to consume. Sahih Muslim, no: 1934. \n\nDonkey meat is prohibited by Muhammad, according to hadith.\n\nPredator animals possessing fangs are prohibited.e.g. Cat, dog, lion etc.\n\nBirds having talons are prohibited. e.g. Owl.\n\nLizard is prohibited.\nLikewise snakes, scorpion and mice are prohibited.\n\nIslamic prophet prohibited eating of eel lizard and donkeys. Muhammad prohibited the use of horses and mules for food. Metamorphosed (animals to which a disobedient pre Islamic nation was converted as a punishment such as apes and monkeys) animals are prohibited by Muhammad .\n\nSince the turn of the 21st century, there have been efforts to create organizations that certify food products as halal for Muslim consumers in the USA. \nSince 1991, some mainstream manufacturers of soups, grains, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, prepared foods, and other products, as well as hotels, restaurants, airlines, hospitals, and other service providers have pursued the halal market. These companies purchase halal-certified products. This can allow companies to export products to most Middle Eastern countries and South East Asian Countries. The oldest and most well-known halal certifier in the United States is called the Islamic Services of America.\n\nIn 2011, the Halal Products Certification Institute was established in California and became the first worldwide corporation that certified halal consumer products such as cosmetics, personal care products, and perfumes and fragrances. The institute was established by Islamic intellectual scholars and Muslim scientists to assure the dissemination of halal consumer products.\n\nIn Europe, several organizations have been created over the past twenty years in order to certify the halal products. A survey recently published by a French association of Muslim Consumers (ASIDCOM) shows that the market of halal products has been developed in a chaotic way in Europe. The European certification organizations do not have a common definition of \"halal\" nor agreed upon control procedures and traceability. The controls implemented by individual agencies are all very different: they can go from an annual audit of the slaughterhouse, to checking each production with permanent controls in place and on-going independent monitoring.\n\nSome animals and manners of death or preparation can make certain things haram to eat, that is, taboo food and drink. These include what are regarded as unclean animals such as swine, or animals that are sick.\n\nIn South Africa, most chicken products have a halal stamp. The South African National Halal Authority (SANHA) issues certificates and products bearing this logo range from water, snacks, and even meat-free products (which may contain non-halal ingredients). The South African National Halal Authority also licenses the usage of the Halal logo in restaurants where the food is halal in addition to no alcohol or pork products being served.\n\nMany apparently meat-free dishes, and even some desserts, contain pork, such as most kinds of gelatin, or other non-conforming substances. There is some disagreement about food additives such as monosodium glutamate (MSG) that may use enzymes derived from pig fat in the production process. It is difficult to avoid such additives when eating out since they are usually not listed on restaurant menus. Some Muslim organizations compile tables of such additives. \n\nThe halal market is now estimated to be 20% of world trade and is growing. Companies from Europe and North America that would like to access the growing Halal market must get their consumable products Halal certified. The Global Halal Institute has a list of Halal certifiers that are approved by most Muslim countries with dietary import restrictions.\n\nThe first USDA approved Halal Food Company in the USA is Midamar Corporation. The company began producing halal beef, chicken, lamb and turkey products for domestic and international consumption in 1974 and is based in Cedar Rapids, Iowa which is home to the one of the oldest Muslim communities in America and the longest standing mosque in America. In Dearborn, Michigan, the home of one of the largest Muslim and Arab populations in the United States, some fast-food restaurant chains such as the McDonald's Corporation have introduced halal chicken nuggets and chicken sandwiches.\n\nPopeye's Chicken in Ontario is mostly not halal-certified (depending on location); however, in 2012 a legal dispute broke out between a group of 14 Muslim franchisees and the chain over the company's decision to use machine-slaughtered birds. The fourteen Toronto area outlets are instead using hand-slaughtered halal birds, and are suing the company so that they can continue to do so.\n\nHalal Food is generally available in Trinidad and Tobago, however not all fast food outlets and poultry shops are halal certified.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, or Singapore, halal fried chicken restaurants having thousands of outlets serve halal foods, such as the Adenya Beach Halal Resort, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Nando's, Brown's Chicken, and Crown Fried Chicken companies. As of February 2009, Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurants in the U.K. began to sell halal meals in several restaurants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48551544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48551544", "title": "John Howard Furby", "text": "John Howard Furby\n\nJohn Howard Furby (May 23, 1882 – August 16, 1939) was an American Orthodontist who graduated from Angle School of Orthodontia. Dr. Furby was an instructor at the school of Angle where he devoted his time teaching the students.\n\nHe was born in Onarga, Illinois in 1882. He was the 2nd of the five children. He went to Northwestern University Dental School in 1903 to obtain in Dental Degree. To fund his college education, he worked at the Chicago Rapid Transit Company. He received his dental degree in 1906 and started practicing in Barrington, Illinois. He then applied and got accepted to Angle School of Orthodontia when it was reopened again in Pasadena, California. After graduating from the school, he opened his Orthodontic practice in Hollywood, California.\n"}
{"id": "1556506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1556506", "title": "Kalighat Home for the Dying", "text": "Kalighat Home for the Dying\n\nKalighat, the Home of the Pure Heart (\"Nirmal Hriday\") (formerly Mother Teresa's Kalighat Home for the Dying Destitutes) is a hospice for the sick, destitute and the dying established by St. Mother Teresa in Kalighat, Kolkata, India. Before Mother Teresa sought permission to use it, the building was an old abandoned Hindu temple to the goddess Kali, the Hindu goddess of time and change. It was founded by St. Mother Teresa on her 42nd birthday in 1952, two years after she established Missionaries of Charity in Kolkata.\nSt. Mother Teresa opened this free hospice in 1952, next to the famous Kalighat Kali Temple in Kalighat Calcutta. With the help of Indian officials, she changed an abandoned building which previously served as a temple for the Hindu goddess Kali into the \"Kalighat home for the dying\", a free hospice for the poor. Later on she changed the name to \"Kalighat the Home of the Pure Heart (Nirmal Hriday)\". People who were brought to the home received medical attention from the Missionaries of Charity and were given the opportunity to die with dignity, according to the rituals of their faith; Muslims were read the Quran, Hindus received water from the Ganges, and Catholics received the Last Rites. \"A beautiful death,\" she said, \"is for people who lived like animals to die like angels—loved and wanted.\"\n\nIn 1991, Robin Fox, editor of the British medical journal \"The Lancet\" visited the Home for Dying Destitutes in Calcutta (now Kolkata) and described the medical care the patients received as \"haphazard\". He observed that sisters and volunteers, some of whom had no medical knowledge, had to make decisions about patient care, because of the lack of doctors in the hospice. Fox specifically held Teresa responsible for conditions in this home, and observed that her order did not distinguish between curable and incurable patients, so that people who could otherwise survive would be at risk of dying from infections and lack of treatment.\n\nFox conceded that the regimen he observed included cleanliness, the tending of wounds and sores, and kindness, but he noted that the sisters' approach to managing pain was \"disturbingly lacking\". The formulary at the facility Fox visited lacked strong analgesics which he felt clearly separated Mother Teresa's approach from the hospice movement. Fox also wrote that needles were rinsed with warm water, which left them inadequately sterilized, and the facility did not isolate patients with tuberculosis. There have been a series of other reports documenting inattention to medical care in the order's facilities. Similar points of view have also been expressed by some former volunteers who worked for Teresa's order. St. Mother Teresa herself referred to the facilities as \"Houses of the Dying\".\n\nSt. Mother Teresa encouraged members of her order to baptize dying patients, without regard to the individual's religion. In a speech at the Scripps Clinic in California in January 1992, she said: \"Something very beautiful... not one has died without receiving the special ticket for St. Peter, as we call it. We call baptism ticket for St. Peter. We ask the person, do you want a blessing by which your sins will be forgiven and you receive God? They have never refused. So 29,000 have died in that one house [in Kalighat] from the time we began in 1952.\"\n\nCritics have argued that patients were not provided sufficient information to make an informed decision about whether they wanted to be baptized and the theological significance of a Christian baptism.\n\nSome of St. Mother Teresa's defenders have argued that baptisms are either soul-saving or harmless and hence the criticisms would be pointless (a variant of Pascal's Wager). Simon Leys, in a letter to \"The New York Review of Books\", wrote: \"Either you believe in the supernatural effect of this gesture – and then you should dearly wish for it. Or you do not believe in it, and the gesture is as innocent and well-meaningly innocuous as chasing a fly away with a wave of the hand.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1617604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1617604", "title": "Lathyrism", "text": "Lathyrism\n\nLathyrism or neurolathyrism is a neurological disease of humans and domestic animals, caused by eating certain legumes of the genus \"Lathyrus\". This problem is mainly associated with \"Lathyrus sativus\" (also known as \"grass pea\", \"chickling pea\", \"kesari dal\", or \"almorta\") and to a lesser degree with \"Lathyrus cicera\", \"Lathyrus ochrus\" and \"Lathyrus clymenum\" containing the toxin ODAP.\n\nThe lathyrism resulting from the ingestion of \"Lathyrus odoratus\" seeds (\"sweet peas\") is often referred to as odoratism or osteolathyrism, which is caused by a different toxin (beta-aminopropionitrile) that affects the linking of collagen, a protein of connective tissues.\n\nThe consumption of large quantities of \"Lathyrus\" grain containing high concentrations of the glutamate analogue neurotoxin β-oxalyl-L-α,β-diaminopropionic acid (ODAP, also known as β-\"N\"-oxalyl-amino-L-alanine, or BOAA) causes paralysis, characterized by lack of strength in or inability to move the lower limbs, and may involve pyramidal tracts producing signs of upper motor neuron damage. The toxin may also cause aortic aneurysm. A unique symptom of lathyrism is the atrophy of gluteal muscles (buttocks). ODAP is a poison of mitochondria, leading to excess cell death, especially in motor neurons. Children can additionally develop bone deformity and reduced brain development.\n\nThis disease is prevalent in some areas of Bangladesh, Ethiopia, India and Nepal, and affects more men than women. Men between 25 and 40 are particularly vulnerable.\n\nThe toxicological cause of the disease has been attributed to the neurotoxin ODAP which acts as a structural analogue of the neurotransmitter glutamate. Ingestion of legumes containing the toxin occurs, although knowledge of how to detoxify Lathyrus is present, but drought conditions can lead to fuel and water shortages preventing the necessary steps from being taken, particularly in impoverished countries. Lathyrism usually occurs where the despair of poverty and malnutrition leaves few other food options. Lathyrism can also be caused by food adulteration.\n\nRecent research suggests that sulfur amino acids have a protective effect against the toxicity of ODAP.\n\nEating the chickling pea with grain having high concentrations of sulphur-based amino acids reduces the risk of lathyrism if grain is available. Food preparation is also an important factor. Toxic amino acids are readily soluble in water and can be leached. Bacterial (lactic acid) and fungal (tempeh) fermentation is useful to reduce ODAP content. Moist heat (boiling, steaming) denatures protease inhibitors which otherwise add to the toxic effect of raw grasspea through depletion of protective sulfur amino acids. During times of drought and famine, water for steeping and fuel for boiling is frequently also in short supply. Poor people sometimes know how to reduce the chance of developing lathyrism but face a choice between risking lathyrism and starvation.\n\nThe underlying cause for excessive consumption of grasspea is a lack of alternative food sources. This is a consequence of poverty and political conflict. The prevention of lathyrism is therefore a socio-economic challenge.\n\nThe first mentioned intoxication goes back to ancient India and also Hippocrates mentions a neurological disorder 46 B.C. in Greece caused by Lathyrus seed. Lathyrism was occurring on a regular basis.\n\nDuring the Spanish War of Independence against Napoleon, grasspea served as a famine food. This was the subject of one of Francisco de Goya's famous aquatint prints titled \"Gracias a la Almorta\" (\"Thanks to the Grasspea\"), depicting poor people surviving on a porridge made from grasspea flour, one of them lying on the floor, already crippled by it.\n\nDuring WWII, on the order of Colonel I. Murgescu, commandant of the Vapniarka concentration camp in Transnistria, the detainees - most of them Jews - were fed nearly exclusively with fodder pea. Consequently, they became ill from lathyrism.\n\nIn the film \"Ashes\" [English title] by Andrzej Wajda based on the novel \"Popioly\" [Polish title] translated as \"Lost army\" [English title] by Stefan Żeromski spanning the period 1798–1812, a horse is poisoned by grain from a Spanish village. The footage of the horse losing control of its hind legs suggests that it was fed with Almortas.\n\nDuring the post Civil war period in Spain, there were several outbreaks of lathyrism, caused by the shortage of food, which led people to consume excessive amounts of Almorta flour.\n\nIn Spain, a seed mixture known as comuña consisting of \"Lathyrus sativus\", \"L. cicera\", \"Vicia sativa\" and \"V. ervilia\" provides a potent mixture of toxic amino acids to poison monogastric (single stomached) animals. Particularly the toxin β-cyanoalanine from seeds of \"V. sativa\" enhances the toxicity of such a mixture through its inhibition of sulfur amino acid metabolism [conversion of methionine to cysteine leading to excretion of cystathionine in urine] and hence depletion of protective reduced thiols. Its use for sheep does not pose any lathyrism problems if doses do not exceed 50 percent of the ration.\n\nRonald Hamilton suggested in his paper \"The Silent Fire: ODAP and the death of Christopher McCandless\" that itinerant traveler Christopher McCandless may have died from starvation after being unable to hunt or gather food due to lathyrism induced paralysis of his legs caused by eating the seeds of \"Hedysarum alpinum\". In 2014, a preliminary lab analysis indicated that the seeds did contain ODAP. However, a more detailed mass spectrometric analysis conclusively ruled out ODAP and lathyrism.\n\nA related disease has been identified and named osteolathyrism, because it affects the bones and connecting tissues, instead of the nervous system. It is a skeletal disorder, caused by the toxin beta-aminopropionitrile (BAPN), and characterized by hernias, aortic dissection, exostoses, and kyphoscoliosis and other skeletal deformities, apparently as the result of defective aging of collagen tissue. The cause of this disease is attributed to beta-aminopropionitrile, which inhibits the copper-containing enzyme lysyl oxidase, responsible for cross-linking procollagen and proelastin. BAPN is also a metabolic product of a compound present in sprouts of grasspea, pea and lentils. A disorder that is clinically similar is konzo.\n\n"}
{"id": "44796268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44796268", "title": "List of historical cuisines", "text": "List of historical cuisines\n\nThis list of historical cuisines lists cuisines from recent and ancient history by continent. Current cuisine is the subject of other articles.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8757878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8757878", "title": "Medical Products Agency (Sweden)", "text": "Medical Products Agency (Sweden)\n\nThe Medical Products Agency (MPA; ) is the government agency in Sweden responsible for regulation and surveillance of the development, manufacturing and sale of medicinal drugs, medical devices and cosmetics.\n\nIts task is also to ensure that both individual patients and healthcare professionals have access to safe and effective medicinal products and that these are used in a rational and cost-effective manner.\n\nThe Swedish Medical Products Agency is one of the leading regulatory authorities in the EU. During the last five years, the Swedish MPA has been among the top three agencies in Europe, counting the number of approvals processes managed for central (i.e. European) approvals of medicines. The Swedish MPA also has strong representation in more than 110 working groups and committees in the scope of the Heads of Medicines Agencies (HMA) and European Medicines Agency (EMA) for regulation of medical products in Europe.\n\nThe Medical Products Agency is a government body under the aegis of the Swedish Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. Its operations are largely financed through fees. Approximately 750 people work at the agency; most are pharmacists and doctors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45381431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45381431", "title": "Mosa Conference", "text": "Mosa Conference\n\nMosa Conference is an annual international (bio)medical research conference organised for students, held at the Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences (FHML) of Maastricht University. The conference is organised by students of Maastricht University. Mosa Conference 2016 will take place June 21 and 22.\n\nIn 1996, the Maastricht Medical Student Research Conference (MMSRC) Foundation was founded by medical students of the Maastricht University to create a platform for students to present their own research and learn about a specific medical theme via lectures and workshops. This led to the foundation of MMSRC.\n\nThe first conference, held in 1997, focused entirely on Dutch students of the Maastricht University. Through the years, the focus of the conference shifted towards an international conference which not only Dutch, but all (bio)medical students can visit and participate in.\n\nIn 2012, MMSRC fused with Clinical Investigator Science Symposium (CISS) to establish Mosa Conference. As a result of this fusion, students from the physician-clinical investigator study of Maastricht University are required to present their research at Mosa Conference as part of their curriculum.\n\nIn 2014, the organisation of the Biomedical Sciences Master study of Maastricht University agreed to create the same requirement for their Biomedical Sciences students to present at the conference from Mosa Conference 2015 onwards.\n\nThe call for abstracts refers to the period before the actual conference when students can send in an abstract of their research to the organisation of Mosa Conference. These abstracts are then blinded and randomised, and sent to the Scientific Advisory Board, consisting of (bio)medical professors, doctors and researchers who scores the abstracts based on predetermined criteria. The students with the highest scored abstracts are then invited to present their research at Mosa Conference by an oral or poster presentation.\n\nVisitors of Mosa Conference are divided into two groups: regular visitors and participants. Regular visitors can attend the lectures and workshops, and function as audience to the student presentations. Participants are the students who present their research at Mosa Conference and compete to win prizes.\n\nThe conference offers certain elements that are consistent every year. Students can present their research via a poster or oral presentation. Furthermore, lectures and workshops are held at the conference which revolve around a yearly changing theme.\n\nMost student presentations at the conference are poster presentations. Students present their research, depicted on their poster, to a professional and student jury. Both the poster and the presentation itself are judged based on predetermined criteria. The student with the best poster presentation wins a prize, which is awarded at the end of the conference.\n\nOral presentations are given by students whose abstracts received the highest scores from the Scientific Advisory Board. The students have about ten minutes to present their research to an audience and professional jury with a PowerPoint presentation. The presentation is, like the poster presentations, judged based on predetermined criteria. The students with the best and second-best oral presentations win prizes.\n\nThe lectures at Mosa Conference revolve around a yearly changing (bio)medical theme and are given by speakers who are considered experts in their respective fields. These lectures last about an hour and are divided between the conference days.\n\nWorkshops, also known as \"interactive lectures\", are given in rounds where visitors and participants can choose between workshops (usually three per round) to attend. The workshops are more interactive with the audience than the regular lectures and are given by an expert in the field, a PhD student or a (bio)medical company.\n\nEvery year Mosa Conference has a different (bio)medical theme. The theme of Mosa Conference 2015 is Searching For Disease, and features screening and (pre-)diagnostics, together with the technology and research that form the foundation for this. The theme is central to the lectures and workshops held at the conference.\n\nThemes of Mosa Conference over the years:\nMosa Conference was nominated for the Maastricht University Student Prize 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "28351160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28351160", "title": "Nutrient enema", "text": "Nutrient enema\n\nA nutrient enema, also known as feeding per rectum, rectal alimentation, or rectal feeding, is an enema administered with the intent of providing nutrition when normal eating is not possible. Although this treatment is ancient, dating back at least to Galen and a common technique in 19th century medicine, nutrient enemas have been superseded in modern medical care by tube feeding and intravenous feeding.\n\nA variety of different mixes have been used for nutrient enemas throughout history. A paper published in \"Nature\" in 1926 stated that because the rectum and lower digestive tract lack digestive enzymes, it is likely that only the end-products of normal digestion such as sugars, amino acids, salt and alcohol, will be absorbed.\n\nThis treatment was given to U.S. President James A. Garfield after his shooting in 1881, and is asserted to have prolonged his life.\n\nWhen the United States Senate Intelligence Committee published an unclassified summary of its 6,000 page classified report on the CIA's use of torture, its previously unknown use of \"rectal rehydration\" for punishment and torture became apparent.\n\n"}
{"id": "36250335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36250335", "title": "Obese: A Year to Save My Life", "text": "Obese: A Year to Save My Life\n\nObese: A Year to Save My Life was a British documentary, reality, Weight loss show that was broadcast on Sky1 from 2 January to 27 February 2012, produced, directed and filmed by Luke Campbell and Adam Kaleta. Nine episodes were originally created for the first series, which starred American fitness expert Jessie Pavelka. Jessie helped nine morbidly obese British men and women help battle against their weight over the length of a year. The program finished after one series but was renamed and brought back in 2013 as \"Fat: The Fight of My Life\" which ran for another 10 episodes.\n"}
{"id": "29473428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29473428", "title": "Pakistan Islamic Medical Association", "text": "Pakistan Islamic Medical Association\n\nPakistan Islamic Medical Association (PIMA) was established in Oct, 1979. Since its inception PIMA has been striving to achieve its goals in professional and training of doctors, calling its members and associates towards Islamic way of life through its regular Dawah and training workshops and seminars. PIMA played a significant role in enrichment of professional skills through regular hands on workshops to meet the requirements of the country in particular and of international community during wars, disaster and peace. PIMA relief remained always on the fore fronts during National and international disasters like earthquakes, tsunami, floods, cyclones and wars. PIMA has established medical institutions of international repute contributing in quality medical, dental and allied specialties. Through its regular contribution in health awareness, education and community services PIMA has been regularly struggling for upbringing the health of the masses. The health institutions of PIMA like hospitals, clinics, free medical camps and specialized campaigns remained instrumental alleviating the suffering of those who are otherwise not cared. PIMA has developed specialized expertise in managing disasters of all sorts whether man made or natural. PIMA Project Prevention of Blindness Trust has remarkable services for the prevention of blindness national & International Levels. PIMA established projects of international repute in collaboration with FIMA, like Consortium of Islamic medical colleges (CIMCO), Islamic Hospital Consortium (IHC), FIMA save vision, FIMA save dignity and many other projects. PIMA’s mega projects like Peshawar Medical College and Mega pharmaceutical industry are remarkable achievements serving the community at large.\n\nMuhammad was said to have said that “Allah creates no disease without creating a cure for it as well” and “the superiority of the learned over the mere pins is like the superiority of the moon when it is full over all other stars and the ink of the sailors is more previous than the Good of the martyrs”; these sayings direct us towards reaching for unknown cures and medical research is thus our religions duty.\n\n\nThe history dates back to 1979, when fifty doctors from all over Pakistan met at students teachers center (STC) of the Punjab University, Lahore in the month of October. They laid down the foundation of an organization named as Pakistan Doctors Forum (PDF), a fraternity of medical profession. PDF carried on its mission for two years, initially by emphasizing more an organizational work and the membership drive. It was April 1981, convention of PDF was held in Rawalpindi. This forum was renamed as \"Pakistan Islamic Medical Association\" (PIMA) and its constitution was approved. PIMA is an active member of Federation of Islamic Medical Association (FIMA), an international forum for collaboration of all Islamic medical associations around the globe. In the journey through 25 years, PIMA has emerged as a strong forum for Muslim medical professionals to excel in profession, ethics and provide relief to oppressed humanity in the country and around the globe as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33805846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33805846", "title": "Patient management software", "text": "Patient management software\n\nPatient management software (PMS) is referred to as software that is regulated as a medical device. It is software that is used to acquire medical information from a medical device to be used in the treatment or diagnosis of a patient. It can also be software that is an adjunct to a medical device and directly contributes to the treatment of the patient by performing analysis, or providing treatment or diagnosis functionality that replaces the decision and judgment of a physician.\n\nMedical devices are classified and these classifications became somewhat less restrictive in December, 2010. Regulations provide rules for classifying medical devices into four increasing risk levels – Class I, Class II, Class III, and Class IV. Patient management software is classified as either Class I or Class II. Software that is intended to be used to view images, or other real time data, as an adjunct to the monitoring device itself, for the purpose of aiding in treatment or diagnosis of a patient, would be Class I medical devices. Medical device software that is an adjunct to another medical device and is involved in data manipulation, data analysis, data editing, image generation, determination of measurements, identification of a region of interest in an image, or identification (by an alarm or alert) of results from a monitor that are outside of an established range, is a Class II medical device if it: (1) provides the only means and opportunity to capture or acquire data from a medical device for aiding directly in diagnosis or treatment of a patient; or (2) replaces a diagnostic or treatment decision made by a physician.\n\nExamples of patient management software are PACS, remote patient monitoring. Others include any medical device that is used to transmit data from a medical device or analyze data from a medical device such as blood pressure monitors and glucose monitors.\n\nMany in the health care industry have raised concerns over the quality and software development process of PMS. The development of PMS is often criticized as too focused on simply the software development process and not the product. Much of these concerns are rooted in safety issues \n\nComputerized physician order entry, an example of PMS, highlights some of these safety concerns.\n\nOther criticisms are aimed at the regulations in place. Some critics argue that regulations stifle innovation and that vendors will no longer have any incentive to create new products. Also, existing and future products will have to adhere to strict licensing procedures and this may affect the sustainability of these products. \n\nAnother concern is that the rules are disproportionately strict in comparison to the actual risk associated with a wide variety of eHealth systems and this may prevent companies from initiating the development of new products.\n\nRegulation of patient management software applies to anyone importing, distributing or selling the software. Health Canada is responsible for regulating the sale, advertising and distribution of patient management software in Canada. Regulated software is classified based on risk increasing from Class I to Class II.\nThe type of license required depends on the classification of the software. An establishment license is required from a vendor or manufacturer of Class I PMS and a medical device license is required from a vendor or manufacturer of Class II PMS. ISO 13485 certification is required of manufacturers of Class II medical devices.\n\nIn August, 2009, Health Canada which is responsible for regulating the advertising, manufacturing and sale of medical devices in Canada issued a notice confirming that patient management software is a medical device and is subject to the Medical Devices Regulations and the Food and Drugs Act. The development of the regulation of patient management software as a medical device began three years earlier when a company called MedManager created a patient portal technology that was deemed a Class II medical device and subject to regulation by Health Canada. Developments had taken place thereafter, to indicate that medical device classification include patient management software. A notice was officially released by Health Canada in August, 2009 indicating that patient management software was indeed a medical device. \n\nTherefore, organizations that import, sell or otherwise distribute Class I patient management software must have an establishment license and Class II patient management software must have a medical device licence. In order to obtain a medical device licence, manufacturers must hold a quality management system (QMS) certificate issued by an accredited registrar showing that the QMS is compliant with ISO 13485: 2003 Medical devices – Quality management systems – requirements for regulatory purposes. Organizations are also required to perform certain post-market responsibilities such as maintaining distribution and complaint handling records, mandatory problem reporting and recalls. \n\nIn December, 2010, a notice was released by Health Canada further clarifying the definition, classification and licensing requirements of software regulated as a medical device. For example, software used to transmit data from a medical device, or software that analyzes data from a medical device and makes diagnostic or treatment decisions normally made by a physician, would be considered software regulated as a medical device. A product that only stores and displays patient information is not a medical device. Examples of software that are not medical devices are middleware, EHR's including those that are custom built for use only within the organization, applications that perform administrative calculations and manipulations (such as determining time between appointments, or workflow management), the Wii Fit video game, personal BMI calculators and pedometer software used for fitness. The regulations apply to software that is distributed with or without compensation.\n\n"}
{"id": "414219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=414219", "title": "Penile fracture", "text": "Penile fracture\n\nPenile fracture is rupture of one or both of the \"tunica albuginea\", the fibrous coverings that envelop the penis's \"corpora cavernosa\". It is caused by rapid blunt force to an erect penis, usually during vaginal intercourse, or aggressive masturbation. It sometimes also involves partial or complete rupture of the urethra or injury to the dorsal nerves, veins and arteries.\n\nA popping or cracking sound, significant pain, swelling, immediate loss of erection leading to flaccidity, and skin hematoma of various sizes are commonly associated with the sexual event.\n\nPenile fracture is a relatively uncommon clinical condition. Vaginal intercourse and aggressive masturbation are the most common causes. A 2014 study of accident and emergency records at three hospitals in Campinas, Brazil, showed that woman on top positions caused the greatest risk with the missionary position being the safest. The research conjectured that when the receptive partner is on top, they usually control the movement and are not able to interrupt movement when the penis suffers a misaligned penetration. Conversely, when the penetrative partner is controlling the movement, they have better chances of stopping in response to pain from misalignment, minimizing harm.\n\nThe practice of \"taqaandan\" (also \"taghaandan\") also puts men at risk of penile fracture. Taqaandan, which comes from a Kurdish word meaning \"to click\", involves bending the top part of the erect penis while holding the lower part of the shaft in place, until a click is heard and felt. Taqaandan is said to be painless and has been compared to cracking one's knuckles, but the practice of taqaandan has led to an increase in the prevalence of penile fractures in western Iran. Taqaandan may be performed to achieve detumescence.\n\nUltrasound examination is able to depict the tunica albuginea tear in the majority of cases (as a hypoechoic discontinuity in the normally echogenic tunica). In a study on 25 patients, Zare Mehrjardi et al. concluded that ultrasound is unable to find the tear just when it is located at the penile base. In their study magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) accurately diagnosed all of the tears (as a discontinuity in the normally low signal tunica on both T1- and T2-weighted sequences). They concluded that ultrasound should be considered as the initial imaging method, and MRI can be helpful in cases that ultrasound does not depict any tear but clinical suspicious for fracture is still high. In the same study, authors investigated accuracy of ultrasound and MRI for determining the tear location (mapping of fracture) in order to perform a tailored surgical repair. MRI was more accurate than ultrasound for this purpose, but ultrasound mapping was well correlated with surgical results in cases where the tear was clearly visualized on ultrasound exam.\n\nPenile fracture is a medical emergency, and emergency surgical repair is the usual treatment. Delay in seeking treatment increases the complication rate. Non-surgical approaches result in 10–50% complication rates including erectile dysfunction, permanent penile curvature, damage to the urethra and pain during sexual intercourse, while operatively treated patients experience an 11% complication rate.\n\nIn some cases, retrograde urethrogram may be performed to rule out concurrent urethral injury.\nIn the United States, the case of \"Doe v. Moe\", 63 Mass. App. Ct. 516, 827 N.E.2d 240 (2005), tested liability for a penile fracture injury caused during sexual intercourse. The court declined to find duty as between two consensual adults. The plaintiff in this case, a man who suffered a fractured penis, complained that the defendant, his ex-girlfriend, had caused his injury while she was on top of him during sexual intercourse. The court ruled in her favor, determining that her conduct was neither legally wanton nor reckless.\n"}
{"id": "43114526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43114526", "title": "Pharmaceutical physician", "text": "Pharmaceutical physician\n\nA Pharmaceutical Physician is a healthcare professional who performs actions related to pharmacology. They work in biotechnology companies, Clinical Research Organisations (CROs), Regulatory Authorities, and pharmaceutical companies.\n\nPharmaceutical physicians's primary role is to inform others about development of new treatments, newly established products dealing with the pharmaceutical industry, and to help with medical need. Pharmaceutical physicians must make sure that all of the materials comply with Pharmaceutical Medicines Code of Practice Authority (PMCPA).\n\n\nPharmaceutical physicians were first recruited after the second World War to fluctuate medical aspects of drug development. British Association of Pharmaceutical Physicians was the first industry composed of pharmaceutical physicians. It was created in 1957 in Britain.\n"}
{"id": "24355242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24355242", "title": "Pre-existing condition", "text": "Pre-existing condition\n\nIn the context of healthcare in the United States, a pre-existing condition is a medical condition that started before a person's health benefits went into effect. Before 2014 some insurance policies would not cover expenses due to pre-existing conditions. These exclusions by the insurance industry were meant to cope with adverse selection by potential customers. Such exclusions have been prohibited since January 1, 2014, by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.\n\nAccording to the Kaiser Family Foundation, more than a quarter of adults below the age of 65 (approximately 52 million people) had pre-existing conditions in 2016.\n\nThe University of Pittsburgh Medical Center defines a pre-existing condition as a \"medical condition that occurred before a program of health benefits went into effect\". J. James Rohack, president of the American Medical Association, has stated on a \"Fox News Sunday\" interview that exclusions, based upon these conditions, function as a form of \"rationing\" of health care.\n\nConditions can be broken down into two further categories, according to Lisa Smith of Investopedia:\n\nWhich definition may be used was sometimes regulated by state laws. Some states required insurance companies to use the objective standard, while others required the prudent person standard. 10 states did not specify either definition, 21 required the \"prudent person\" standard, and 18 required the \"objective\" standard.\n\nAccording to the Kaiser Family Foundation, more than a quarter of adults below the age of 65 (approximately 52 million people) had pre-existing conditions in 2016.\n\n\nRegulation of pre-existing condition exclusions in individual (non-group) and small group (2 to 50 employees) health insurance plans in the United States was left to individual U.S. states as a result of the McCarran–Ferguson Act of 1945 which delegated insurance regulation to the states and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) which exempted self-insured large group health insurance plans from state regulation. After most states had by the early 1990s implemented some limits on pre-existing condition exclusions by small group (2 to 50 employees) health insurance plans, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (Kassebaum-Kennedy Act) of 1996 (HIPAA) extended some minimal limits on pre-existing condition exclusions for \"all\" group health insurance plans—including the self-insured large group health insurance plans that cover half of those with employer-provided health insurance but are exempt from state insurance regulation.\n\n\n\n\nPre-existing condition exclusions were prohibited for HIPAA-eligible individuals (those with 18 months continuous coverage unbroken for more than 63 days and coming from a group health insurance plan).\n\nIndividual (non-group) health insurance plans could exclude maternity coverage for a pre-existing condition of pregnancy.\n\nGroup health insurance plans sponsored by employers with 15 or more employees were prohibited by the Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 from excluding maternity coverage for a pre-existing condition of pregnancy; this prohibition was extended to all group health insurance plans by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA).\n\nAdvocates against pre-existing condition rules argue that they cruelly deny people in need of treatment. State Farm spokeswoman K.C. Eynatten has said, \"We realized our position was based on gut feelings, not hard numbers... we became aware that we were part of the reason a woman and her children might not leave an abuser. They were afraid they'd lose their insurance. And we wanted no part of that.\" Jerry Flanagan, health-care policy director of Consumer Watchdog, has stated that \"insurance companies want premiums without any risk\" and go to extreme \"lengths... to go to make a profit\". InsureMe, an insurance quote provider website, has argued that even though health insurance is basically to protect people from very high costs of health care, the commercial health insurance system is not playing fair and are always trying to avoid risk in order to boost their profits.\n\nSome practices by some health insurance companies, such as determining domestic violence to be an excludable pre-existing condition, have been called abuses by Maria Tchijov, a Service Employees International Union new media coordinator, and by an Office of Rural Health Policy report.\n\nThe rationale behind pre-existing condition clauses, according to those who defend the policies, is that they reduce the cost of health insurance coverage for those who still receive it, thus giving more people an opportunity to afford insurance in the first place. The \"San Francisco Chronicle\" has reported that \"[c]osts for those with coverage could go up because people in poor health who'd been shut out of the insurance pool would now be included... they would get medical care they could not access before.\" Senator Mike Enzi, a Republican from Wyoming, has voted to allow insurance companies to consider domestic violence as a pre-existing condition and supported his vote by saying that covering such people could raise insurance premiums to the point where it would preclude others from buying it. He has remarked that \"If you have no insurance, it doesn't matter what services are mandated by the state\".\n\nAccording to the California-based advocacy group Consumer Watchdog, other possible situations falling under pre-existing condition clauses are chronic conditions as acne, hemorrhoids, toenail fungus, allergies, tonsillitis, and bunions, hazardous occupations such as police officer, stunt person, test pilot, circus worker, and firefighter, and pregnancy and/or the intention to adopt.\n\nAccording to a Reason.com libertarian opinion blog by Peter Suderman, the 'Pledge to America' issued by the Republican Party in September 2010 stated, \"Health care should be accessible for all, regardless of pre-existing conditions or past illnesses... We will make it illegal for an insurance company to deny coverage to someone with prior coverage on the basis of a pre-existing condition.\" In a March 3, 2010, address, President Barack Obama said that coverage denied to those with pre-existing conditions is a serious problem that would only grow worse without major reforms. In a September 2010 visit with Falls Church, Virginia, residents, Obama referred to a woman with an eye condition and a woman with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma as personal examples in the audience of those benefiting from changing pre-existing condition rules.\n\nA \"Time Magazine\"-Abt SRBI poll in late July 2009 found that a large majority of Americans (80%) favored a requirement that insurance companies insure people even if they suffer from pre-existing conditions.\n\nIn September 2009, the monthly Kaiser Health Tracking Poll report said:\n\n"}
{"id": "24090083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24090083", "title": "Prince Dance Group", "text": "Prince Dance Group\n\nPrince Dance Group, a dance troupe based in Berhampur, Orissa, India led by T. Krishna Mohan Reddy. It has won a reality show India's Got Talent on an Indian TV channel \"Colors\" Colors (India TV channel). The group is unique that the members are from a remote part of India and most of them are from disadvantaged sections of different parts of Ganjam district. Two of them, Padmanabha Sahu (24) and Telu Tarini (13) are physically challenged. They have won the hearts of all Oriyas, including chief minister Naveen Patnaik, and even outsiders with their performance in the programme \"India's Got Talent\". Prince Group also performed in Sardotsav- annual winter festival in Pithoragarh (Uttarakhand) on 6 November 2014.\n\nAfter winning Rs 50 lakh (Rs five million) prize money and a audi car from the Colors channel, a pleasant surprise lay in store for them. The Orissa government announced a cash prize of Rs two crore (Rs twenty million) and four acres of land for the group to build a dance academy.\n\nConfirming the news, Krishna Mohan Reddy, the choreographer of Prince Dance Group said, \"We have heard that our government has announced a prize for us. We feel honoured. I am very happy that our efforts have paid off.\"\n\nThe group, which is from Berhampur, Orissa, consists of 20 members. Krishna leads the team and the rest are labourers from a construction site. It was their Krishna act which earned the group accolades from the viewers nationwide and they also became a favourite with the judges.\n\nCommenting on their future plans, Krishna added, “I am a choreographer and want to grow in this profession. With the land provided to us by the government I want to build a dance academy and take this art forward. I would also want to perform on an international platform.”\n\nThe group did an astonishing performance depicting Lord Krishna and his avatars that got good comments from all the three judges. Shekhar Kapoor was mesmerised by their performance. In their semi-final act on 15 August, they depicted the Indian Flag. The special act in which two of the group's challenged students also performed moved the judges to tears. The audience became so involved in the act that they started chanting \"Bharat mata ki jay\", after the performance was over.\n\nPrince Group performed in Sardotsav- annual winter festival in Pithoragarh (Uttarakhand) on 06 November 2014.\nThe Prince dance group will, in all probability, represent India at the global stage in the first World's Got Talent contest, which will see them competing with the 25 winners from various Got Talent series of different countries. This would be the world's biggest reality TV talent show with a proposed prize money of £1 million and an intended airdate of 2011 with UK serving as the venue.\n"}
{"id": "32961146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32961146", "title": "Ruzicka Goerz Anton syndrome", "text": "Ruzicka Goerz Anton syndrome\n\nRuzicka Goerz Anton syndrome is a rare genetic disease described by Ruzicka et al. in 1981. It is characterized by icthyosis (rough, scaly skin), deafness, intellectual disability, and skeletal anomalies.\n\nIt is also known as \"Ichthyosis deafness intellectual disability skeletal anomalies\".\n\nThe primary symptoms of Ruzicka Goerz Anton syndrome include ichthyosis, deafness, oligophrenia, and skeletal deformities.\n\nTherapy with Ro 10-9359, a retinoid derivative, results in improvement of the ichthyosis portion of the syndrome.\nIn 1981, a case was studied by Ruzicka et al. of a 15-year-old girl. The patient had ichthyosis congenita as well as deafness and retarded mental development. Further studies showed several skeletal deformities including brachydactyly, clinodactyly, and extra ribs. One year earlier, the patient had developed thyroid carcinoma, but whether or not this is due to the syndrome is unknown. The patient was treated with an oral retinoid, which greatly improved the patient's ichthyosis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37362851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37362851", "title": "Self-fulfillment", "text": "Self-fulfillment\n\nIn philosophy and psychology, self-fulfillment is the realizing of one's deepest desires and capacities. The history of this concept can be traced to Ancient Greek philosophers and it still remains a notable concept in modern philosophy.\n\nPhilosopher Alan Gewirth in his book \"Self-Fulfillment\" defined self-fulfillment as \"carrying to fruition one's deepest desires or one's worthiest capacities.\" Another definition states that self-fulfillment is \"the attainment of a satisfying and worthwhile life well lived.\" It is an ideal that can be traced to Ancient Greek philosophers, and one that has been common and popular in both Western and non-Western cultures. Self-fulfillment is often seen as superior to other values and goals.\n\nGewirth notes that \"to seek for a good human life is to seek for self-fulfillment\". However, in modern philosophy, the ideal of self-fulfillment has become less popular, criticized by thinkers such as Hobbes and Freud, who feel there are conceptual and moral problems associated with it. It has been called an egoistic concept, impossible to achieve, with some suggesting that it is an obsolete concept that should be abandoned. Moral philosophers focus less on obtaining a good life, and more on interpersonal relations and duties owed to others. Similarly, whereas Plato and Aristotle saw the goal of the polis in providing a means of self-fulfillment to citizens, modern governments have given up on that, focusing rather on maintaining civic order. Despite the criticism, the concept of self-fulfillment still persists in modern philosophy, its usefulness defended by thinkers such as Gewirth himself.\n\nGewirth noted that the term self-fulfillment has two near synonyms: self-realization and self-actualization, used respectively by philosophers and humanist psychologists, whereas the term self-fulfillment is more commonly used outside those expert fields. Gewirth however argues that this concept is sufficiently different from those others to merit not being used as a synonym. Self-actualization in particular, often discussed in the context of Maslow's hierarchy of needs, is frequently defined as the \"need for self-fulfillment\".\n\nDr. Ben Carvosso in his book \"Life CEO - Take Charge, and start doing your life's work, not your busy work\" discussed the prevalence of individuals who's lives are busy, full but unfulfilled. Individuals who's lives are unfulfilled because something is missing and who come to the mistaken conclusion (driven by cleaver marketing by big corporations) that the solution is work harder and make more money to somehow make more time. Self-fulfillment comes from knowing what you really want, not what society says you should want. Its only when we connect with what we really want that we experience true joy or Eudaimonia.\n\nSelf-fulfillment has been positively connected to altruism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34573966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34573966", "title": "Siddika Kabir", "text": "Siddika Kabir\n\nSiddiqua Kabir (May 7, 1931 – January 31, 2012) was a Bangladeshi nutritionist, academic, cookbook author and cooking show television host. A professor, Kabir hosted and guest starred in numerous television shows featuring Bangladeshi cuisine, including \"Siddiqua Kabir’s Recipe\" on NTV Bangla.\n\nKabir was born in Dhaka, on May 7, 1931. She was the second of the six children. She lost her father at the age of 17. She attended college for mathematics and received a master's degree on the subject. With a scholarship from the Ford Foundation, she obtained her second master's degree in Food, Nutrition and Institutional Administration from Oklahoma State University in 1963.\n\nKabir began her teaching career in 1957 by joining the mathematics department of Eden Girls' College in Azimpur, Dhaka. She joined the nutrition department of College of Home Economics, Azimpur, Dhaka, from where she retired as the principal in 1993.\n\nKabir appeared in her first television cooking show in 1966, leading a long career in numerous cooking shows as a presenter and guest. She also authored cookbooks, including \"Ranna Khaddya Pushti\" and \"Bangladesh Curry Cookbook.\" Her career further led to consultant work for major foreign and Bangladeshi consumer food brands, such as Radhuni, Dano, and Nestlé.\n\nKabir received several awards from the food and television industries, including the Sheltech Award in 2009.\n\nKabir was married to Syed Ali Kabir, a journalist and former Deputy Governor of Bangladesh Bank. Together they had two daughters - Zarina Nahar Kabir and Shahanaz Ahmed Chandana. Actress Sara Zaker is her niece.\n\nKabir died at Square Hospital in Dhaka on January 31, 2012, at the age of 80.\n\n"}
{"id": "43988797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43988797", "title": "Société des Eaux de Marseille", "text": "Société des Eaux de Marseille\n\nSociété des Eaux de Marseille is a French water distribution company in Marseille and sixty districts throughout Provence. It is a subsidiary of Veolia.\n\nOn October 28, 1938, a department store on the Canebiere caught fire. When firefighters did not have access to sufficient amounts of water to stop the fire and two hundred casualties died, and the mayor, Henri Tasso, was dismissed and plans to buy new water pipes were made. The Société d'Etudes des Eaux de Marseille was then established.\n\nThree years later, in 1941, the Société des Eaux de Marseille was established, and the City of Marseille signed a contract giving it water rights two years later, on March 1, 1943. In 1960, the contract was extended, making it more encompassing. It later became a subsidiary of Veolia. It has served Marseille and 60 districts in Provence for sixty years. It is a member of the World Water Council.\n\nIt is headquartered at 25 rue Edouard Delanglade in Marseille. Its President is Loic Fauchon.\n\n"}
{"id": "50000715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50000715", "title": "Suicide in Iran", "text": "Suicide in Iran\n\nSuicide in Iran is believed to be a growing concern in recent years. Iran rates third highest among Islamic countries. According to statistics, each day more than 13 people take their lives by suicide in Iran; most of whom are aged 15–35. Some studies also show that in 2013, for instance, the average rate of suicide in Iran (pop. 77.45 million) was 6 in every 100,000 people.\n\nEconomic problems, mental illnesses, cultural obligations, political issues and social pressures are the major factors for suicide commission in Iran.\n\nThe word \"suicide\" in Persian dictionaries like Moeen, Dehkhoda, and Amid, has been defined as \"killing self by any means\". The Oxford English Dictionary records the first use of the word \"suicide\" by Walter Charleton in 1651.\nApparently the word \"suicide\" in French was used by Pierre Desfontaines for the first time. Later, this word was accepted by the French Academy of Sciences. Ali EslamiNasab, considers the combination of two Latin words \"sui\" (self=) and \"cide\" (killing=Persian: کُشی) a correct term for \"suicide\" (self-killing=Persian: خودکشی \"khudkushi\"). The concept of suicide in the Moaser Persian Dictionary is defined as \"the intentional termination of life by one's own intention and own hands\".\n\nThe first sociological analysis of suicide has been put forward by the French sociologist, Émile Durkheim. He states in his 1897 book \"suicide\" that \"suicide is any type of death which is a direct or indirect cause of the victim's own positive or negative acts that he/she was aware of in advance\". Durkheim categorized suicides into the following four types all of which are related to the relationship of the individual to society: 1- \"Egoistic suicide\" that is the cause of individualism and the separation from the society. 2- \"Altruistic suicide\" that occurs when the individual has a deep attachment to the society. 3- \"Anomic suicide\" which is the cause of anomie and lawlessness in the society. 4- \"Fatalistic suicide\" that occurs when the wills, emotions and incentives of the members of the society is under the restrict control of the society.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Sigmund Freud was the first to review suicide from a psychological point of view. He considered suicide as \"the ultimate anger towards self caused by the unconscious\". Freud, divided human instincts into two categories: death instinct (Thanatos) and life instinct (Eros). He believed that the death instinct starts immediately after birth and intends to return in the future. This instinct is the cause of extinction, grudge, and termination of generation (reproduction). On the other hand, the life instinct is the cause of friendship, love, reproduction. Gradually, Freud developed his theory of death instinct, which is in opposition to libido.\n\nErwin Stengel is the first person to differentiate between suicide and suicide intention from a psychological point of view. After some research, he dedicated an independent branch of psychology to the suicide intention. Research has suggested that unlike suicide the intention of suicide has other goals than just simple \"self destruction\". Kayral has mentioned the following four goals of suicide intention: 1- an invitation or asking for help and support; 2- a reaction to a disaster or an unexpected catastrophe; 3- abusing or threatening of others and 4- an escape from a harsh situation. According to Eslaminasab, the following five behaviors of suicide ideation, threatening to commit suicide, suicide gesture (harming oneself), suicide attempt and successful suicide, are categorized under suicidal behavior.\n\nThe term \"suicidology\" became prevalent in the 1960s. It was first used in 1929 by the Dutch scientist, W. A. Bonger. Suicidology is the scientific study of suicide and its different aspects.\n\nSuicide in Iran is believed to be a growing concern over recent years. According to World Health Organization in 2014 the suicide rate of Iran was 5,3 in every 100,000 people. In that year, the rate of suicide based on gender was 3,6 for women and 7 for men. Seasonally, most suicides occurred in summer with the rate of 35,2% of all suicides; 13% higher than any other season. Based on a meta-analytical research, in Iran, the rate of attempted and successful suicides among married couples is higher than other groups. The statistics provided by the Medical Jurisprudence Organization of Iran show that 54% of suicides ending in death occurred among people under 30 years of age and that people who lived in the cities, had statistically higher rates of suicides than people living in rural areas.\n\nAccording to the field research questionnaires given to the suicidal patients referred to Loghman Hospital from 1970 to 1972, family-related issues, with a prevalence of 56%, were the most important reasons of committing suicide. (Table 1). In this study, family-related issues consisted of conflicts between married couples and their parents, and also improper interpersonal relations between parents and their children or other siblings with each other. Such issues started from the ages of 15 to 19 and were most frequent among 20- to 24-year-olds. These two age periods combined were the cause of 56% of total suicides related to family issues. In general, 81% of suicides related to family issues were committed by youths from 10 to 34 years old. In addition, family-related issues, were the most prevalent reason among children from 10 to 14 years old (33%).\n\nIn the aforementioned study (Table 1), love-related issues with a prevalence of 28% were the second most frequent reason of suicide and the most frequent age period was from 15 to 24 (61٪). In this study, housing, unemployment, and educational failure, have been categorized under society-related issues which was the third reason of suicide with the highest frequency in patients from the age of 20 to 24 years old. In this study, financial issues were the lowest cause of suicide with 6% of all committed suicides.\n\nIn a study done on 260 suicides refereed to the Medical Jurisprudence Organization of Iran in the first half of 2004, according to the answers that the families of these suicide victims provided, the most prevalent reasons for suicide among men were mental disorders (41%) and financial problems (31%); and among women were family conflicts (54%) and mental disorders (31%). The most prevalent mental disorder among both men and women was depression and in 27% of the cases, the victim had a long history of hospitalization.\n\nIranian women are more vulnerable to suicide than other groups in the society. In 2007, Iran ranked the third country in which women were outnumbering men in committing suicide.\n\nAccording to a study published in 2008, women's suicide rate in Iran was double that of men. This study also found that drug overdose is the most popular method of suicide among Iranians; hanging and self-immolation, respectively, are the most popular methods after drug overdose.\n\nBased on Iranian statistics, from 1984 to 1993, nearly 1,500 deaths attributed to suicide of 27,000 deaths among children and teenagers were recorded annually. Teens from 13 to 17 years of age committed most of these suicides and the suicide rate among boys was four times that of girls. The total number of suicides from 1994 to 2001, were 4,250 which showed a large increase from the last mentioned period of time. Jalili, by excluding the exceptional cases, found the total number of teen suicides from 1993 to 2001 to be approximately 3,225 cases; the suicide rate based on gender was 3.7 boys to 1 girl. The most chosen methods of suicide were, respectively, drug poisoning, hanging, jumping from a height and, very rarely, firearms. Boys chose firearms, explosives, hanging and suffocation, whereas girls mostly chose poisoning or drug overdose as a method to kill themselves. The most chosen methods of suicides among children were jumping from a height, poisoning, hanging, stabbing and jumping under vehicles.\n\nIn September 2015, Fateme Daneshvar, the director of the social committee of the Islamic City Council of Tehran, declared that from 2002 to 2004, 111 children committed suicide in Tehran. This data is from the Loghman Hospital in Tehran and is for suicides by poisoning for ages 8 to 13. Sociologist Majid Mohammadi considers the following five reasons for Iranian child and teen suicide: 1- conflicts in sexual identity which increases suicide rates among LGBT youths. 2- neglected depression. 3- group pressure and being bullied at school. 4- copycatting the suicide of another person and public hanging of criminals. 5- Forced marriage in some provinces.\n\nIn a field study done on 323 students (159 boys and 164 girls) between the ages of 14 to 17 in the city of Isfahan, which was published in 2001 the prevalence of major depressive disorder among teenagers was nearly 43.4% and suicidal ideation 32.7%. It was revealed that 55.5% of girls and 30.8% of boys had been suffering from mild or severe depression. This study also showed that the most frequency of suicide ideation (58.3%) was among teenagers who described their parents' behavior to be restrictive (less emotional and more controlling) and the least frequency of suicide ideation (11.6%) was among teenagers who described the behavior of their parents to be democratic (more emotional and less controlling). The prevalence of suicide ideation among girls was more than boys (37.7% vs 27.5%, respectively).\n\nAccording to suicide statistics of 2013, which were the most recent until July 2015, 54% of all suicides in Iran were committed by people aged under 30.\n\nA longitudinal study done on students from 2003 to 2008, showed that hanging was the most chosen method and wrist cutting was the least chosen method of suicide. According to this study, single male students aged 22 who were studying Humanities in the Islamic Azad University, had a higher incidence of suicide than any other group. It was found that most of these suicides were committed near the time of the exams and in holidays between semesters.\n\nA 2006 study conducted by Ghoreyshi and Mousavi Nasab, showed that 55.8% of the population of 3,477 chose drug overdose as the most favorite method with the median of 55.8% of the total population.\n\nIn a meta-analysis study on other studies done until April 2012, Bidel and others found out that from all methods of poisoning drug overdose with 75%, and other poisons (including agricultural and domestic pesticides) with 13%, had the most prevalence among suicides. According to this study, provinces of Golestan (90%), Markazi (89%), Razavi Khorasan (88%) and Hormozgan (88%) respectively, ranked the highest in suicide with drug overdose and provinces of Ilam (25%), Bushehr (21%) and East Azerbaijan (20%) respectively, ranked the highest in suicide with other types of poisons. According to Bidel and others, the reason behind Ilam's high incidences of suicide with agricultural pesticides is because such substances are easily accessible in this province.\n\nAccording to a 2001 report by the medical jurisprudence organization of Iran, self-immolation has been the most chosen method of suicide among women with 69.29% prevalence. This report also states that the highest rate of self-immolation as a method of suicide among men was from Yazd Province with 47% prevalence and the highest suicide rate with this method for women was recorded in Bushehr province with 94.4% prevalence.\n\nIn a meta-analysis study consisted of 19 studies with a population of 22,498 suicide cases until 2012, Nazarzade and others have concluded that generally speaking, from all physical methods of suicide, self-immolation, with a prevalence of 13%, is the most chosen method of suicide in Iran. They also found that the provinces of Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad (48%), Ilam (28%) and South Khorasan (10%), respectively, ranked the highest rates for self-immolation as a method of killing oneself. According to Nazarzade and others, although suicide by this method in Iran occurs less than in other countries like India (40%), Sri Lanka (24%) and Egypt (17%), the prevalence of this method in Iran is more than some African countries like Zimbabwe (11%) and South Africa and also some European countries like Germany. Their report states that in general and except for poisoning, Iranian men and women tend to use violent methods like self-immolation, hanging and shooting with firearms for their suicide. The prevalence of these types of methods is higher in western and south-eastern provinces of the country.\n\nBased on a 2001 report from the Medical Jurisprudence Organization of Iran, hanging, with the prevalence of 56.5%, was the most important method of suicide among men.\n\nAccording to Nazarzade and others, based on a meta-analytical study of other studies conducted during the 1990s and 2000s, (excluding the studies that solely covered successful suicides), with a population of 22,468 cases of attempted suicides, the prevalence of hanging was only 2%. Based on this study, Kermanshah Province, in 2005 had the highest rate of hanging (17%) and Golestan Province, in 2002, had the lowest rate of hanging (1%). Also, suicide by hanging in Iran occurs less than in western and Asian countries.\n\nThe table on the right, shows the frequency of methods used in successful suicides that were referred to the Medical Jurisprudence Organization of Iran in the first half of 2004. According to this data, the most chosen method of suicide among both women and men in Iran was hanging. (Population= 180 men and 80 women). Among Iranian men who committed suicide, hanging (57%) and poisoning (17%) respectively, were the most important method and for women, poisoning and self-immolation were the most chosen method, with a prevalence nearly alike each other.\n\nAccording to Khademi and others, due to limitations of accessing and using firearms in Iran, suicide by this method, in comparison with other methods such as poisoning, self-immolation and hanging is less favorable.\n\nBased on the data available from the Medical Jurisprudence Organization of Iran, in 2001, 8% of successful suicides involved a type of firearm (269 persons) and in total, the prevalence of this method was 0.42 in every 100,000 people. In the same year, the men's suicide rate with this method was 91.4% whereas that of the women was only 8.6%. Notably, 62% of suicides by shooting occurred in military locations. According to Khademi and others, the subject of suicide by firearms among conscripted soldiers in Iran is problematic and needs to be paid special attention.\n\nBased on statistics from 2001, the provinces of Kermanshah, Ilam and Lorestan, respectively with 1.71, 1.67 and 1.63 suicides by firearm in every 100,000 people, ranked the highest and the provinces of Qom, Zanjan and Mazandaran, respectively with 0, 0 and 0.07 suicides by firearm in every 100,000 people, ranked the lowest. Khademi and others attribute the high level of suicide by shooting in western and eastern provinces to arms trafficking and the fact that in those provinces people have easier access to weapons and tools used lethally than do those in other provinces.\n\nIn Iran, like other countries, suicide by train occurs. According to authorities, on average, each month one person kills themselve by jumping on Tehran's subway railway. For example, on May 15, 2015, a 35-year-old man after throwing himself under a subway train at Moniryeh Station, was injured and brought to hospital. On January 16, 2016, a young lady committed suicide in Darvazeh Dolat Station.\n\nJumping from a height is also a common method of suicide and it has been proven psychologically that incongruous city appearance can cause suicidal thoughts in some people. Before the 1979 Revolution of Iran, places like \"Pelasko Building\" and \"The Aluminum Building\" in Tehran were among the favorite sites of suicide by jumping and it has been said that some famous Iranian people like Sadeq Hedayat and Nosrat Rahmani intended to jump from these buildings. After the revolution, Milad Tower, which had become the highest building, attracted those who wanted to kill themselves by jumping. At least three successful suicides by jumping from the roof of Milad Tower have been reported.\n\nThe act of suicide has not been criminalized in the penal law of the Islamic Republic of Iran. However, no one is permitted to ask another to kill them. In addition, threatening to kill oneself is not an offense under the law, however, if this act of threatening is made by a prisoner inside a prison, then that would be considered a violation of prison regulations and the offender may be punished according to penal law.\n\nAccording to the Act. 836 of the civil law of the Islamic Republic of Iran if a suicidal person prepares for suicide and writes a testament, if he/she dies, then by law the will is considered void and if he/she doesn't die, then the will is officially accepted and can be carried out.\n\nAccording to the theory of \"borrowed crime\", because suicide itself is not a crime in penal law, thus any type of assisting in an individual's suicide is not considered a crime and the assistant is not punishable. Assisting a suicide is considered a crime only when it becomes the \"cause\" of the suicidal person's death; for example when someone takes advantage of someone else's unawareness or simplicity and convinces him/her to kill him/herself. In such cases assisting a suicide is treated as murder and the offender is punished accordingly. In addition, assisting a suicide is considered a crime under section 2 of Act. 15 of the cyber crimes law of the Islamic Republic of Iran which was legislated on June 15, 2009. According to the act, any type of encouragement, stimulation, invitation, simplification of access to lethal substances and/or methods and teaching of suicide with the help of computer or any other media network is considered assisting in suicide and, thus, is punished by imprisonment from 91 days up to 1 year or fines from 5 to 20 million Iranian rials or both.\n\nIn Iran it's said by the religious figures that according to the Islamic texts, suicide is a sin, because it would be unthankful of the blessings that God (Allah) has given them.\n\nWhile suicide is portrayed and discussed in many Iranian classic art works and literature, speaking of it among people is seen as more or less of a taboo. The cases of suicide among people are thought of with both sympathy for the victim and a sense of disdain or shame for the family and close friends of the person.\n\nSadegh Hedayat, a famous contemporary Iranian writer, has used suicide as a theme in some of his stories such as \"Buried alive\", \"Parvin, daughter of Sasan\" and \"Darkroom\". In the short story, \"Buried alive\", the narrator of the story wants to be far from mankind. He has found life to be a waste, doesn't have any hope to continue and is constantly in search of suicide methods. For him, death is the means of achieving calmness. In the play, \"Parvin, daughter of Sasan\", Parvin is in love with Parviz who is fighting Arabs to stop them conquering Ray. Finally, Parviz is killed and Parvin, who is interested by an Arab General, kills herself hopelessly. In the short story \"Darkroom\", the narrator follow-travels with a strange person who does not want to communicate with people and share in their pleasures; instead, he wants to come back to mother's Uterus. At the end of the story, the narrator finds the strange person's dead body in his oval-shaped jujube-colored room while like a Fetus, his feet are retracted to his stomach.\n\nThe \"Taste of Cherry\", a 1997 movie by Abbas Kiarostami that won the Palme d'Or of Cannes Film Festival, is about a man named \"Badi'ei\" who has the intention to kill himself by overdosing and is searching for someone to pour soil on his dead body in grave after his suicide.\n\nIn a 2005 comparative field study between 156 Iranian students with an average age of 16.5 and 167 Swedish students with an average age of 17, it was revealed that Swedish students, in comparison with their Iranian counterparts, had more liberal views towards suicide and considered it a right for any person. Whereas the Iranian students believed that no person is allowed to kill him/herself and those who do, if they survive, they should be punished. Also, Swedish students had a higher rate of acceptance for their friends who survived suicide than their Iranian counterparts. In addition, believing in life after death and the punishment of those who die due to suicide, was more common among the Iranian students than the Swedish students.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8532621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8532621", "title": "Uffe Ravnskov", "text": "Uffe Ravnskov\n\nUffe Ravnskov (born 1934) is a Danish medical doctor, independent researcher, a member of various international scientific organisations, and a former assistant professor and medical practitioner in Denmark and Sweden. In recent years he has gained notoriety for questioning the scientific consensus regarding the Lipid Hypothesis.\n\nHe was born in Copenhagen, Denmark, and received his medical doctorate from the University of Copenhagen in 1961. Over the following seven years, he worked at various surgical, roentgenological, neurological, paediatric and medical departments in Denmark and Sweden. He then began scientific studies at the Departments of Nephrology and Clinical Chemistry at the Lund University Hospital in Lund, Sweden. He was awarded his doctorate of philosophy (specialising in internal medicine and nephrology) there in 1973, and was assistant professor at the university's Department of Nephrology from 1975 to 1979.\n\nAn encounter with scientific fraud committed by a colleague ended up changing Ravnskov's career:\nRavnskov entered private medical practice as a specialist in internal medicine and nephrology in 1979, and worked in Lund in this capacity and as a family doctor until retiring in 2000. Since 1979 he has worked as an independent scientific researcher and since 2000 continues to do so on a full-time basis.\n\nHe resides in Lund, Sweden.\n\nIn his 1973 PhD. thesis, \"On Renal Handling of Serum Proteins\", Ravnskov introduced the albumin/creatinine clearance ratio, a more accurate way to measure proteinuria. He was also the first to describe the peritubular uptake of low-molecular-weight proteins.\n\nHe also proposed a theory that glomerulonephritis is primarily a tubulointerstitial disease, supported by his earlier findings that most patients with glomerulonephritis excrete large amounts of tubular proteins and tubulospecific enzymes.\n\nIn experimental studies he demonstrated that the handling of proteins by the kidneys differs in man and other mammals, implying that knowledge from animal studies cannot be applied to humans. \n\nRavnskov also conducted work on urinary tract infections; in one study of urinary tract infections in women he found that the major cause of dysuria was soap, not bacteria.\n\nHis major research interest concerns the association between hydrocarbon exposure and glomerulonephritis; this interest was sparked by a 1975 paper in \"The Lancet\" by Stephen W. Zimmerman, K. Groehler, and G.J. Beirne, who found that the large majority of their patients with glomerulonephritis on dialysis treatment had prior heavy exposure to industrial solvents. In his subsequent work in this area, he was the first to demonstrate that a discontinuation of hydrocarbon exposure may improve the course of glomerulonephritis, a finding confirmed by follow-up studies made by British researchers.\n\nWhen the lipid hypothesis came to be promoted strongly in Sweden Ravnskov felt there was an incongruity between the Diet-Heart Idea and scientific literature he could recall. In Ravnskov's words,\n\nHe reexamined data from past scientific studies, and came to the conclusion that the scientific foundations of the Diet-Heart Idea were scientifically flawed, with what he characterized as all the \"inaccuracies, misinterpretations, exaggerations and misleading quotations in this research area.\" His book \"Kolesterolmyten\" (\"The Cholesterol Myths\") was subsequently published in Sweden in 1991 and in Finland in 1992. It received adverse attention from the local media when they consulted the researchers and health authorities that it criticised; in the 2003 edition of the book, Ravnskov recalls how it was belittled in a television programme on Finland's Channel 2 television station and a copy of the book literally set on fire.\n\nWith the popularisation of the internet in the late 1990s, Ravnskov saw the opportunity to publicize his conclusion and, in 1997, published selected sections of \"The Cholesterol Myths\" on the world wide web. According to the search engine Direct Hit (since acquired by Ask.com in 1999), Ravnskov's website soon became ranked as one of the top ten most popular websites about cholesterol. As a result of this worldwide interest, his book was translated into English and published in the United States as \"The Cholesterol Myths: Exposing the Fallacy that Saturated Fat and Cholesterol cause Heart Disease\" in September 2000 by a publishing house established by the head of the Weston A. Price Foundation, Sally Fallon. It was later published in Germany in 2002 under the title \"Mythos Cholesterin. Die zehn größten Irrtümer\" (\"Cholesterol Myth: The Ten Biggest Errors\").\n\nSince 1990, Ravnskov has published over 80 scientific papers critical of the Diet-Heart Idea, proposing new hypotheses and also contending that \"the successful dissemination of the diet-heart idea is due to authors systematically ignoring or misquoting discordant (contradictory) studies\". He was the first to suggest that the positive effect of the statins may be due to other effects than cholesterol-lowering.\n\nRavnskov has received the Skrabanek Award in 1999 from Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland, for original contributions in the field of medical scepticism. \n\nHe is a member of the free panel of the Journal of the Swedish Medical Association (the medical journal \"Läkartidningen\"), the International Science Oversight Board, the International Society for the Study of Fatty Acids and Lipids, and is the spokesman for THINCS, The International Network of Cholesterol Skeptics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32859677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32859677", "title": "Victor Fuchs", "text": "Victor Fuchs\n\nVictor Robert Fuchs (born 1924) is an American health economist. He has been called \"the dean of health economists\" by \"New York Times\" economics columnist David Leonhardt.\n\nHe is the Henry J. Kaiser, Jr. Professor at Stanford University, emeritus. Since 1962, he has been a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and is the co-director of the FRESH-Thinking Project, CASBS, at Stanford University. Fuchs was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1982, and to the American Philosophical Society in 1990. In 1995, he served as president of the American Economic Association.\n\nAlso, Fuchs published a paper, with James S. Hahn, in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" \"How Does Canada Do it? – A comparison of Expenditures for Physicians' Services in the United States and Canada.\" It discusses the differences in the Canadian and US healthcare spending patterns and also discusses why healthcare expenditures are so much higher in the United States.\n\nThey found that the higher US expenditures were entirely based on 234% higher fees for services than Canada even though there are more physicians per capita in Canada. That shows that the typical view of Canada saving money by delivering fewer services is false and that the insurance setup, being a single-payer system, is what gives it the edge.\n\nDifferences between the United States and Canada on fees, spending, and use are shown. The accentuating difference begins with the disparity in health care coverage. Canada operates under a universal health care system, which covers majority of their residents. On the other hand, the United States operates under a fragmented multi-payer system that fails to provide coverage for many Americans.\n\nMoreover, the lack of correspondence between both countries regarding health care coverage validates part of the narrative reported in the study, which concluded that the US spent more on physicians' services than Canada.\n\nCanada provides more services at lower costs by virtue of negotiated physician fees between physician organizations and the provincial governments as well as other limits placed on spending.\n\nFurthermore, the study also suggests that higher expenditures in the US is a function of many factors including higher wages earned by US physicians, the difference of physicians on demand, billing costs, quality of health care, physicians' workload, and superfluous amenities. Notably, the factors bring to question the underlying differences in health care delivery, and the authors reported more general practitioners in Canada per capita.\n\nThe limited role of general practitioners in the US compared to Canada may imply that Canadian physicians are \"more inclined to recommend additional evaluation and management services.\"\n\nThe lower quantity of physician services per capita coupled with higher expenditures is an example of the fundamental inefficiencies embedded within the fragmented multipayer health care system in the US. Thus, a concerted effort to reform these inefficiencies has been made by the US government, which resulted in the adoption of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, a noteworthy addition to the health care system since the passage of both Medicare and Medicaid in 1965.\n\nThe advent of the key legislation is shifting the payment of care in the US from the inefficiencies of fee-for-service to payment models grounded on improved outcomes and lower health care spending. Specifically, some of the models reduce costs through a team-based approach known as a medical home, which are often led by a general practitioner.\n\nFurthermore, Congress is currently working on a \"permanent doc fix\" to control Medicare spending on physician services, also known as the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR).\n\nSince the article's publication, important changes in health care policy have taken place, with the potential to resolve the exorbitant expenditures for physicians' services in the US.\n\nFuchs is the author of several books including \"Who Shall Live? Health, Economics, and Social Choice\"' and \"The Future of Health Policy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6508282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6508282", "title": "Washington State Nurses Association", "text": "Washington State Nurses Association\n\n\" For the Memphis, Tennessee radio station previously carrying the calls WSNA, please see WLFP.\"\n\nFounded in 1908, the Washington State Nurses Association (WSNA) is the professional organization representing more than 16,000 registered nurses in the U.S. state of Washington. WSNA is a constituent organization of the American Nurses Association (ANA) and is affiliated with ANA, AFT Healthcare and the AFL-CIO.\n\nJan Bussert, BSN, RN, is the President of the Association.\n\nWSNA advocates for the improvement of health standards and availability of quality health care for all people; promotes high standards for the nursing profession; and advances the professional and economic development of nurses.\n\n\nThis foundation was established in 1982 to provide awards, grants, and scholarships to support the advancement of nursing in Washington State.\n\nThe WSNA-PAC is the nonpartisan political action committee of the WSNA. Established in 1972, WSNA-PAC was one of the first state Nurses-PACs in the country. The PAC's activities include educating and assisting nurses for political action, identifying and supporting nurse candidates for elected state office, raising funds, and interviewing and endorsing candidates for state office who are supportive of nursing issues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11008971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11008971", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Paraguay", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Paraguay\n\n\"This article has been written in 2007. Please feel free to update this article.\"\nDespite many years of concerted efforts and achievements in expanding coverage and improving service sustainability, many issues remain to be addressed in the water and sanitation sector. Key issues include: (i) a low level of coverage for both water and sanitation, in particular in rural areas; (ii) a low level of cost recovery, despite a legal obligation for tariffs to recover costs; and (iii) an institutional framework that is only partially effective.\n\nWhile coverage levels in urban areas are high using a broad definition of services, the coverage with higher levels of services (house taps and sewers) remains low compared to demand and to other countries in the region.\n\nWater and sanitation coverage in Paraguay (2004)\n\n\"Source\": WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Program (JMP/2006). Data for water and sanitation based on Permanent Housing Survey of the Census (2002).\n\nIn April 2007 a seminar organized by the Center of Multidisciplinary Entrepreneurial Training (CAEM)-TECMA S.A. and financed by the IDB concluded that the Juntas need to improve their management and improve collection of outstanding bills in order to avoid institutional collapse. Otherwise a “domino effect” could occur and jeopardize the financial stability of SENASA as well as the country’s commitments to the World Bank.\n\nResponsibility for policy formulation is nominally vested in the Ministry of Public Works and Communications and regulation is entrusted to an autonomous entity, the Regulatory Agency for Sanitation (ERSSAN). The institutional framework is codified in Law 1614/00 of 2000 establishing a regulatory and tariff framework for the sector. The law, which created ERSSAN, was drafted with the expectation that private sector participation in the sector would substantially increase, which did not occur.\n\nIn practice, the Ministry of Public Works and Communications has not developed sector policies, leaving a vacuum in this important area. The regulatory agency, created for the purpose of regulating prospective private enterprises, has been ineffective at regulating the national public enterprise ESSAP. SENASA also faces many challenges, since it does not have sufficient capacity to provide adequate support to the ever-increasing number of Juntas.\n\nResponsibility for water and sanitation service provision in Paraguay in urban areas rests primarily with a national public enterprise, and with more than 1,621 community-managed water associations (Juntas de Saneamiento) in small cities and in rural areas.\n\nThe national enterprise, the Empresa de Servicios Sanitarios de Paraguay (ESSAP), is responsible for serving communities with populations of more than 10,000 inhabitants. In rural communities and small towns with less than 10,000 inhabitants water associations provide services, while technical assistance and financing are provided by the National Environmental Sanitation Service (SENASA).\n\nThe Juntas are grouped in 10 associations which supply water to more than half of country’s population The first Juntas were created with the assistance of the World Bank’s first rural water and sanitation loan to Paraguay in 1977, fostering a successful long-term partnership that endures until today.\n\nAn interesting phenomenon in Paraguay is the emergence of independent private suppliers, called “aguateros”, since the 1970s. Their efforts account for a significant share of the expansion of urban water coverage in the area of the capital. Aguateros are private, informal service providers who operate small-scale systems with up to 3,000 connections. An estimated 500 private suppliers serve some total of about 500,000 people.\n\nUrban utility tariffs are set below cost recovery levels and are adjusted infrequently, leading to substantial operating losses by the national water and sanitation enterprise. This makes it impossible to finance the investments necessary to further expand coverage and to improve \nservice quality.\n\nTariffs by Aguateros fully recover costs and compare favorably with tariffs charged by the public sector. These tariffs are not regulated, but to some extent controlled by competition between aguateros serving neighboring areas.\n\nUnlike in many other countries, local Juntas are well organized and do not only recover operating and maintenance costs, but also expand their systems using their own resources and repay a portion of capital costs to the national treasury.\n\nAccording to data collected by the Pan-American Health Organization based on multi-purpose household surveys, the share of water expenditures in household expenditures in urban areas of Paraguay was the lowest among 10 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean in the late 1990s. The share was on average 1.4% and 1.7% for urban households in the poorest income decile, showing an unusually low difference between the average and poor households. These shares are actually the same or even higher in rural areas, reflecting the unusual high levels of cost recovery in rural areas in Paraguay. Rural households spend on average 1.2% on water, and households in the poorest decile in rural areas spend 2.3% on water. Therefore, despite high levels of cost recovery, tariffs apparently remain affordable.\n\nAs mentioned above, the World Bank’s relationship with the Government of Paraguay and the SENASA on rural water systems goes back for about 30 years. It spans three successfully completed rural water projects: the First, Second, and Third Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Projects (approved on December 13, 1977, June 16, 1981, and September 10, 1992, respectively). As a result, the Bank is one of the institutions most trusted by the Government to assist it in this sector. From 1997 to 2007 the Bank supported the US$ 55.7 million Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (approved on August 28, 1997), which aimed at increasing water supply and sanitation coverage in rural areas. A secondary development objective was to modify SENASA’s role in the sector from an implementer of projects to an efficiently managed promoter of activities.\n\nThe World Bank has also supported a pilot project to expand services in small towns by providing subsidies on a competitive basis, which involve “aguateros” as service providers. This experience is summarized in the note entitled Output-Based Aid in Water – Lessons in Implementation from a pilot in Paraguay.\n\nOn April 14, 2009, the World Bank approved a $64 million loan for the Paraguay Water and Sanitation Sector Modernization Project. The objective of the project is to increase the efficiency, coverage, and sustainability of water supply and sanitation services in Paraguay by (a) improving the governance of the sector, (b) improving water services and increasing access to sewerage services in the Asunción metropolitan area, and (c) increasing access to sustainable water and sanitation services in rural areas.\n\nIn 2001 the IDB approved a US$12m loan to support a Small Community Water Supply Sanitation Project executed by SENASA. Until 2007 more than US$7m had been disbursed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42820744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42820744", "title": "White Cross Orphanage", "text": "White Cross Orphanage\n\nWhite Cross Orphanage is a child caring agency in San Juan, Philippines that provides temporary shelter for children, who are 0–6 years old. Accredited by the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), it gives refuge to children of unwed mothers, indigent families, tuberculosis patients, mentally or physically-incapacitated parents, prisoners, or victims of incest or rape. These children are provided with medical assistance, educational care, and financial support to help them in their early years.\n\nIn the early 20th century when there was an outbreak of tuberculosis (TB) in the Philippines, the orphanage was established to shelter the children of the TB patients of the Quezon Institute. It was founded by Victoria Lopez de Araneta in 1936. Its founding board members include Mercedes McMicking, Conrado Dayrit, Emmanuel J. Dymek, Teodoro Evangelista, Mrs. Carl Hess, Manuel Mañosa, Vincente Marasigan, Paulino Miranda Sampedro, Gonzalo Puyat, Juan Tuason, and Soledad Zulueta.\nThrough the leadership of de Araneta, the board purchased the land in Santolan, San Juan, which is four-hectare lot, where the structure would be built. One of its recognized supporters at that time was President Manuel Quezon and in his honor the orphanage was also known as the Quezon Preventorium. He signed a bill that allowed a portion of horse race revenues to be channeled to the orphanage.\n\nIn 1938, two years after its initial operations, the institution was run under the care of the Daughters of Charity of Saint Vincent de Paul who took in 20 children of TB patients as its wards. The nuns managed the orphanage until they turned it over to the current board in 2004.\n\nOn 20 June 1944, during the time of World War II, the Japanese took over the orphanage and the nuns transferred the children to Welfareville in Mandaluyong for safety. Although the board gave Sr. Consuelo Muró, then overseer of White Cross, the authority to close down the institution, she continued the mission and fed the children in its temporary home in Welfareville. When the war ended and through the help of the American liberation forces, they restored White Cross and the children and the staff returned to San Juan in 1946.\n\nThe services of architect Pablo Antonio, who was later recognized as National Artist for Architecture, was obtained to design White Cross, which was aimed to be a fresh-air shelter for the children of TB patients. The building was an Art Deco design with its façade shaped like a large white cross. The bas-relief of children at play that was designed by Italian sculptor Francesco Monti softened the linear and sharp structure of the façade.\n\nAmong Antonio’s works, which included the Far Eastern University (FEU), Ideal Garden, Orchid Garden Hotel, and Syquia Apartments, only the Manila Polo Club and White Cross remain as the stalwarts because most of his designs have been demolished or in a state of decline.\n"}
