{"id": "3893576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3893576", "title": "Abstract type", "text": "Abstract type\n\nIn programming languages, an abstract type is a type in a nominative type system that cannot be instantiated directly; a type that is not abstract – which \"can\" be instantiated – is called a \"concrete type\". Every instance of an abstract type is an instance of some concrete subtype. Abstract types are also known as \"existential types\".\n\nAn abstract type may provide no implementation, or an incomplete implementation. In some languages, abstract types with no implementation (rather than an incomplete implementation) are known as \"protocols\", \"interfaces\", \"signatures\", or \"class types\". In class-based object-oriented programming, abstract types are implemented as \"abstract classes\" (also known as \"abstract base classes\"), and concrete types as \"concrete classes\". In generic programming, the analogous notion is a concept, which similarly specifies syntax and semantics, but does not require a subtype relationship: two unrelated types may satisfy the same concept.\n\nOften, abstract types will have one or more implementations provided separately, for example, in the form of concrete subtypes that \"can\" be instantiated. In object-oriented programming, an abstract class may include \"abstract methods\" or \"abstract properties\" that are shared by its subclasses. Other names for language features that are (or may be) used to implement abstract types include \"traits\", \"mixins\", \"flavors\", \"roles\", or \"type classes\".\n\nAbstract classes can be created, signified, or simulated in several ways:\n\nAbstract types are an important feature in statically typed OOP languages. Many dynamically typed languages have no equivalent feature (although the use of duck typing makes abstract types unnecessary); however \"traits\" are found in some modern dynamically-typed languages.\n\nSome authors argue that classes should be leaf classes (have no subtypes), or else be abstract.\n\nAbstract types are useful in that they can be used to define and enforce a \"protocol\"; a set of operations that all objects implementing the protocol must support.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4061360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4061360", "title": "Artificial creation", "text": "Artificial creation\n\nArtificial creation is a field of research that studies the primary synthesis of complex lifelike structures from primordial lifeless origins. \n\nThe field bears some similarity to artificial life, but unlike artificial life, artificial creation focuses on the primary emergence of complex structures and processes of abiogenesis. Artificial creation does not rely exclusively on the application of evolutionary computation and genetic algorithms to optimize artificial creatures or grow synthetic life forms. Artificial creation instead studies systems of rules of interaction, initial conditions and primordial building blocks that can generate complex lifelike structures, based exclusively on repeated application of rules of interaction.\nAn essential difference that distinguishes artificial creation from other related fields is that no explicit fitness function is used to select for fit structures. Structures exist based only on their ability to persist as entities that do not violate the system's rules of interaction. Artificial creation studies the way in which complex emergent properties can arise to form a self-organizing system.\n\nAlthough concepts and elements of artificial creation are represented to some degree in many areas, the field itself is less than a decade old. There are models of self-organizing systems that produce emergent properties in biology, computer science, mathematics, engineering and other fields. Artificial creation differs from these in that it focuses on underlying properties of systems that can generate the endless environmentally interactive complexity of living systems. \n\nOne of the primary impetuses for the exploration of artificial creation comes from the realization in the artificial life and evolutionary computing fields that some basic assumptions common in these fields represent subtle mischaracterizations of natural evolution. These fall into two general classes: 1) there are fundamental problems with the use of fitness functions for the primary synthesis of complex systems, and 2) the process of self-replication used in almost all artificial life research is not a fundamental property of self-organizing systems.\n\nThe concept of a fitness function (or objective function) is central to artificial life systems. The fitness function is used to drive a given artificial evolution process to create synthetic organisms capable of performing a given task. However, fitness functions, even aggregate high-level ones, drive evolving systems to particular solutions and place a ceiling on innovation and complexity. Natural evolution does not drive organisms toward particular solutions to problems. There is no motive force for evolution in our universe beyond that of adherence to physical law. This is a subtle point: when modern organisms are viewed in a local context it does appear that they are evolving to optimize particular abilities that will help them survive. This is not the case in a global sense. In fact, the pressure to optimize a given ability comes from the current state of a given population. The only fundamental selective pressure is the ability of structures to adhere to physical law. Stochastic events initiated the appearance of features that we might view as adaptive traits, and it is the local evolution of these traits that much of evolutionary theory is based upon. \n\nThe universe maintains its own consistency. However, when trying to model the universe, or create artificial organisms by mimicking natural evolution, the application of fitness functions that select for particular abilities force an unnatural bias onto the evolving organisms. \n\nIn evolutionary biology, it is well understood that all properties of organisms and ecosystems are emergent properties of fundamental physical law. The conceptual problems related to generations, offspring and populations that occur in artificial life systems stem from the fact that self-replication is itself an innovation of life on Earth. The dynamics observed in modern self-replicating life forms on Earth are extremely complex emergent properties of the organisms themselves, not driving forces imposed by an external controlling entity.\n\nAlife: http://alife.org/conferences\nGECCO: http://www.sigevo.org/gecco-2016/\n"}
{"id": "14306166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14306166", "title": "Biplot", "text": "Biplot\n\nBiplots are a type of exploratory graph used in statistics, a generalization of the simple two-variable scatterplot. A biplot allows information on both samples and variables of a data matrix to be displayed graphically. Samples are displayed as points while variables are displayed either as vectors, linear axes or nonlinear trajectories. In the case of categorical variables, \"category level points\" may be used to represent the levels of a categorical variable. A \"generalised\" biplot displays information on both continuous and categorical variables.\n\nThe biplot was introduced by K. Ruben Gabriel (1971). Gower and Hand (1996) wrote a monograph on biplots. Yan and Kang (2003) described various methods which can be used in order to visualize and interpret a biplot. The book by Greenacre (2010) is a practical user-oriented guide to biplots, along with scripts in the open-source R programming language, to generate biplots associated with principal component analysis (PCA), multidimensional scaling (MDS), log-ratio analysis (LRA)—also known as spectral mapping—discriminant analysis (DA) and various forms of correspondence analysis: simple correspondence analysis (CA), multiple correspondence analysis (MCA) and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). The book by Gower, Lubbe and le Roux (2011) aims to popularize biplots as a useful and reliable method for the visualization of multivariate data when researchers want to consider, for example, principal component analysis (PCA), canonical variates analysis (CVA) or various types of correspondence analysis.\n\nA biplot is constructed by using the singular value decomposition (SVD) to obtain a low-rank approximation to a transformed version of the data matrix X, whose \"n\" rows are the samples (also called the cases, or objects), and whose \"p\" columns are the variables. The transformed data matrix Y is obtained from the original matrix X by centering and optionally standardizing the columns (the variables). Using the SVD, we can write Y = ∑\"d\"uv;, where the u are \"n\"-dimensional column vectors, the v are \"p\"-dimensional column vectors, and the \"d\" are a non-increasing sequence of non-negative scalars. The biplot is formed from two scatterplots that share a common set of axes and have a between-set scalar product interpretation. The first scatterplot is formed from the points (\"d\"\"u\",  \"d\"\"u\"), for \"i\" = 1...,\"n\". The second plot is formed from the points (\"d\"\"v\", \"d\"\"v\"), for \"j\" = 1...,\"p\". This is the biplot formed by the dominant two terms of the SVD, which can then be represented in a two-dimensional display. Typical choices of α are 1 (to give a distance interpretation to the row display) and 0 (to give a distance interpretation to the column display), and in some rare cases α=1/2 to obtain a symmetrically scaled biplot (which gives no distance interpretation to the rows or the columns, but only the scalar product interpretation). The set of points depicting the variables can be drawn as arrows from the origin to reinforce the idea that they represent biplot axes onto which the samples can be projected to approximate the original data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53263726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53263726", "title": "Bob Mants", "text": "Bob Mants\n\nRobert C. \"Bob\" Mants, Jr. (April 25, 1943 – December 7, 2011) was an American civil rights activist, serving as a field secretary for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). He helped lead the voting rights march from Selma to Montgomery; he was standing in the second rank (with Albert Turner, behind Hosea Williams and John Lewis) on Bloody Sunday. After Selma, Mants moved to Lowndes County, working for civil rights for the remainder of his life. Lowndes County contained the majority of the distance covered by the Selma to Montgomery march, and was then notorious for its racist violence.\n\nMants was born in East Point, Georgia. He graduated in 1961 from East Point/South Fulton High School, a segregated black high school. While he was attending high school, Mants was a member of the Committee on Appeal for Human Rights (which would later develop into the Atlanta Student Movement) and volunteering for administrative tasks at the headquarters of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, two blocks from his home. He would go on to attend Morehouse College with the intention of majoring in medicine, but left without graduating, working in 1964 with SNCC in Americus, Georgia. Afterwards, he would move on to Lowndes County in early 1965.\n\nWhile in Americus, Mants reported over the Wide Area Telephone Service that \"negro and white\" mobs were forming on the evening of July 6, 1964, possibly in response to riots the evening before or the integration of two downtown restaurants earlier in the day, which had occurred without incident. Mants was working to calm and disperse the mobs. An hour later, Mants reported a drive-by shooting with no reported injuries or deaths.\n\nMants and Stokely Carmichael from the SNCC first arrived in Selma to participate in the 1965 Selma-to-Montgomery march; in photographs of Bloody Sunday taken by Spider Martin, Mants can be seen wearing a patterned cap, marching next to Albert Turner just behind John Lewis after crossing the Edmund Pettus Bridge; earlier that morning, Mants had participated in a prayer at the Brown Chapel A.M.E. Church, where the march originated, with John Lewis, Hosea Williams, and Andrew Young. During the violent suppression on Bloody Sunday, Mants saved a woman from a possible beating and took her away from the tear gas cloud.\n\nWhile marching to Montgomery in late March 1965, Mants was passing out buttons and leaflets when a resident of Lowndes County, pleased the civil rights movement was coming to her, memorably quoted Revelation 7:9 to him. In 1964, Lowndes County had no registered black voters, even though the county's population was predominantly black. The county was known as \"Bloody Lowndes\" or the rusty buckle of the Black Belt of Alabama because of its long, violent history of whites retaliating against blacks who tried to register to vote. When Mants and other SNCC officials began to register black voters, the newly registered voters, many of which still lived on plantations, were made homeless by the predominantly white landowners. Many of the displaced black residents were housed in a temporary \"Tent City\" and subject to intimidation over the next two years as shots were regularly fired into the encampment. In response, SNCC set up the Alabama Poor People's Land Fund to purchase plots of land and building materials to help the displaced black residents to build new homes.\n\nSNCC also tried a new strategy in Lowndes County, setting up the Lowndes County Freedom Organization (LCFO) in 1966 as an independent Black political party, adopting a snarling black panther as its logo. LCFO would in turn inspire other leaders, such as Stokely Carmichael, who adopted the structure of LCFO for Black Power, and Bobby Seale and Huey P. Newton, who adopted the black panther logo for the Black Panther Party.\n\nMants remained in Lowndes County after the march, saying \"if there was any place I wanted to raise my kids, it would be here, because they could see black people moving forward, advancing ourselves as a race.\" Mants served as a farm management specialist at Tuskegee University. In 1984, Mants was elected to the Lowndes County Commission, unseating a white incumbent, and served one term.\n\nIn 2000, Mants opposed the creation of a landfill along U.S. Route 80, the highway taken by marchers in the third Selma to Montgomery march, calling it \"an insult.\" As head of Lowndes County Friends of the Trail, he noted \"you can't commemorate [the route of the march] on the one hand and desecrate it on the other.\"\n\nBob Mants died after a heart attack on December 7, 2011, while visiting Atlanta. A memorial service was held in Lowndes County on December 17, 2011, where several speakers praised him and his three children (Kadejah, Kumasi, and Katanga) expressed their appreciation for the honors bestowed to him. In addition to his three children, Mants is survived his wife, Joann Christian (also a noted civil rights activist) and seven grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "40066220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40066220", "title": "Chou's distorted key theory for peptide drugs", "text": "Chou's distorted key theory for peptide drugs\n\nAs a culprit of AIDS, HIV protease has been a target for developing drugs against AIDS. Functioning as a dimer of two identical subunits, HIV protease has a crab-like shape (Fig.1). Its catalytic cleft is gated by a pair of flaps (or pincers if viewed as a crab). When the enzyme is in an inhibitor-free state, the pincer-gate is open, allowing substrates to enter the catalytic cleft (Fig.1); when in an inhibitor-binding state, the pincer-gate is closed, blocking the entrance.\n\nAs a member of the aspartyl proteases, HIV protease is highly substrate-selective and cleavage-specific. Its susceptible sites in a protein extend to an octapeptide region (Fig.2) .\n\nKnowledge of the protein cleavage sites by HIV protease can provide very useful information for finding effective inhibitors against the culprit enzyme, as elaborated by Kuo-Chen Chou.\nAccording to Fisher’s lock-and-key model proposed by Hermann Emil Fischer in 1884 and Koshland’s induced fit theory by Daniel E. Koshland, Jr. in 1958, given a peptide, the prerequisite condition for it to be cleaved by HIV-protease is a good fit and binding between the substrate and the enzyme’s active site. However, such a peptide, after a modification on its scissile bond with some simple chemical procedure, will completely lose its cleavability but it can still tightly bind to the enzyme’s active site. According to Kuo-Chen Chou, the molecule thus modified can be likened to a ‘‘distorted key”, which can be inserted into a lock but can neither open the lock nor automatically get out from it. That is why a molecule modified from a cleavable peptide can spontaneously become a competitive inhibitor against the enzyme.\n\nAn illustration about Chou’s distorted key theory is given in Fig.3, where panel (a) shows an effective binding of a cleavable peptide to the active site of HIV protease, while panel (b) the peptide has become a non-cleavable one after its scissile bond is modified although it can still bind to the active site. Such a modified peptide, or ‘‘distorted key”, will automatically become an inhibitor candidate against HIV protease.\n\nEven for non-peptide inhibitors, the information derived from the cleavable peptides can also provide useful insights about the key binding groups and fitting conformation, among many other detailed requirements in microenvironment.\n\nMany efforts have been made to predict the protein cleavage sites by HIV-protease (see, e.g., \n\nAlso, a web-server named HIVcleave was established \n\nChou’s distorted key theory was also utilized to develop inhibitors against severe acute respiratory syndrome or SARS (see, e.g., \n"}
{"id": "34980746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34980746", "title": "Conservatism (belief revision)", "text": "Conservatism (belief revision)\n\nIn cognitive psychology and decision science, conservatism or conservatism bias is a bias in human information processing, which refers to the tendency to revise one's belief insufficiently when presented with new evidence. This bias describes human belief revision in which persons over-weigh the prior distribution (base rate) and under-weigh new sample evidence when compared to Bayesian belief-revision.\n\nAccording to the theory, \"opinion change is very orderly, and usually proportional to the numbers of Bayes' theorem – but it is insufficient in amount\". In other words, persons update their prior beliefs as new evidence becomes available, but they do so more slowly than they would if they used Bayes' theorem.\n\nThis bias was discussed by Ward Edwards in 1968, who reported on experiments like the following one:\n\nThere are two bookbags, one containing 700 red and 300 blue chips, the other containing 300 red and 700 blue. Take one of the bags. Now, you sample, randomly, with replacement after each chip. In 12 samples, you get 8 reds and 4 blues. what is the probability that this is the predominantly red bag?\n\nMost subjects chose an answer around .7. The correct answer according to Bayes' theorem is closer to .97. Edwards suggested that people updated beliefs conservatively, in accordance with Bayes' theorem more slowly. They updated from .5 incorrectly according to an observed bias in several experiments.\n\nIn finance, evidence has been found that investors under-react to corporate events, consistent with conservatism. This includes announcements of earnings, changes in dividends, and stock splits.\n\nThe traditional explanation for this effect is that it is an extension of the anchoring bias, as studied by Tversky and Kahneman. The initial \"anchor\" is the .5 probability given when there are two choices without any other evidence, and people fail to adjust sufficiently far away. However, a recent study suggests that the belief revising conservatism can be explained by an information-theoretic generative mechanism and that assumes a noisy conversion of objective evidence (observation) into subjective estimates (judgment). The study explains that the estimates of conditional probabilities are conservative because of noise in the retrieval of information from memory, whereas noise is defined as the mixing of evidence. Memories of high likelihoods are mixed with evidence of low likelihood and the resulting estimate is lower than it should be. The retrieval of memories of lower likelihoods are higher than they should be, and the result is conservatism (low is not low enough, and high is not high enough, the result is not extreme enough, which is conservative).\n\nIn an incentivized experimental study, it has been shown that the conservatism bias decreased in those with greater cognitive ability, though it did not disappear.\n\n"}
{"id": "32492747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32492747", "title": "Cyberbullying", "text": "Cyberbullying\n\nCyberbullying or cyberharassment is a form of bullying or harassment using electronic means. Cyberbullying and Cyberharassment are also known as online bullying. It has become increasingly common, especially among teenagers. Cyberbullying is when someone, typically teens, bully or harass others on social media sites. Harmful bullying behavior can include posting rumors, threats, sexual remarks, a victims' personal information, or pejorative labels (i.e., hate speech). Bullying or harassment can be identified by repeated behavior and an intent to harm. Victims may have lower self-esteem, increased suicidal ideation, and a variety of emotional responses, including being scared, frustrated, angry, and depressed.\n\nAwareness in the United States has risen in the 2010s, due in part to high-profile cases. Several US states and other countries have laws specific to cyberbullying. Some are designed to specifically target teen cyberbullying, while others use laws extending from the scope of physical harassment. In cases of adult cyberharassment, these reports are usually filed beginning with local police.\n\nResearch has demonstrated a number of serious consequences of cyberbullying victimization.\n\nInternet trolling is a common form of bullying over the Internet in an online community (such as in online gaming or social media) in order to elicit a reaction, disruption, or for someone's own personal amusement. Cyberstalking is another form of bullying or harassment that uses electronic communications to stalk a victim; this may pose a credible threat to the victim.\n\nNot all negative interaction online or on social media can be attributed to cyberbullying. Research suggests that there are also interactions online that result in peer pressure, which can have a negative, positive, or neutral impact on those involved.\n\nA frequently used definition of cyberbullying is \"an aggressive, intentional act or behavior that is carried out by a group or an individual, using electronic forms of contact, repeatedly and over time against a victim who cannot easily defend him or herself.\" There are many variations of the definition, such as the National Crime Prevention Council's more specific definition: \"the process of using the Internet, cell phones or other devices to send or post text or images intended to hurt or embarrass another person.\"\n\nCyberbullying is often similar to traditional bullying, with some notable distinctions. Victims of cyberbullying may not know the identity of their bully, or why the bully is targeting them. The harassment can have wide-reaching effects on the victim, as the content used to harass the victim can be spread and shared easily among many people and often remains accessible long after the initial incident.\n\nThe terms \"cyberharassment\" and \"cyberbullying\" are sometimes used synonymously, though some people use the latter to refer specifically to harassment among minors or in a school setting.\n\nCyberstalking is a form of online harassment in which the perpetrator uses electronic communications to stalk a victim. This is considered more dangerous than other forms of cyberbullying because it generally involves a credible threat to the victim's safety. Cyberstalkers may send repeated messages intended to threaten or harass. They may encourage others to do the same, either explicitly or by impersonating their victim and asking others to contact them.\n\nInternet trolls intentionally try to provoke or offend others in order to elicit a reaction. Trolls and cyberbullies do not always have the same goals: while some trolls engage in cyberbullying, others may be engaged in comparatively harmless mischief. A troll may be disruptive either for their own amusement or because they are genuinely a combative person.\n\nManuals to educate the public, teachers and parents summarize, \"Cyberbullying is being cruel to others by sending or posting harmful material using a cell phone or the internet.\" Research, legislation and education in the field are ongoing. Research has identified basic definitions and guidelines to help recognize and cope with what is regarded as abuse of electronic communications.\n\nCyberbullying can be as simple as continuing to send emails or text messages harassing someone who has said they want no further contact with the sender. It may also include public actions such as repeated threats, sexual remarks, pejorative labels (i.e. hate speech) or defamatory false accusations, ganging up on a victim by making the person the subject of ridicule in online forums, hacking into or vandalizing sites about a person, and posting false statements as fact aimed a discrediting or humiliating a targeted person. Cyberbullying could be limited to posting rumors about a person on the internet with the intention of bringing about hatred in others' minds or convincing others to dislike or participate in online denigration of a target. It may go to the extent of personally identifying victims of crime and publishing materials defaming or humiliating them.\n\nCyberbullies may disclose victims' personal data (e.g. real name, home address, or workplace/schools) on websites or forums—called doxing, or may use impersonation, creating fake accounts, comments or sites posing as their target for the purpose of publishing material in their name that defames, discredits or ridicules them. This can leave the cyberbully anonymous, which can make it difficult for them to be caught or punished for their behavior, although not all cyberbullies maintain their anonymity. Text or instant messages and emails between friends can also constitute cyberbullying if what is said is hurtful.\nThe recent rise of smartphones and mobile apps have yielded a more accessible form of cyberbullying. It is expected that cyberbullying via these platforms will occur more often than through more stationary internet platforms. In addition, the combination of cameras and Internet access and the instant availability of these modern smartphone technologies yield specific types of cyberbullying not found in other platforms. It is likely that those cyberbullied via mobile devices will experience a wider range of types cyberbullying than those who are exclusively bullied elsewhere.\n\nSome teens argue that some events categorized as cyberbullying are simply drama. Danah Boyd writes, \"teens regularly used that word [drama] to describe various forms of interpersonal conflict that ranged from insignificant joking around to serious jealousy-driven relational aggression. Whereas adults might have labeled many of these practices as bullying, teens saw them as drama.\"\n\nCyberbullying can take place on social media sites such as Facebook, Myspace, and Twitter. \"By 2008, 93% of young people between the ages of 12 and 17 were online. In fact, youth spend more time with media than any single other activity besides sleeping.\" The last decade has witnessed a surge of cyberbullying, bullying that occurs through the use of electronic communication technologies, such as e-mail, instant messaging, social media, online gaming, or through digital messages or images sent to a cellular phone.\n\nThere are many risks attached to social media sites, and cyberbullying is one of the larger risks. One million children were harassed, threatened or subjected to other forms of cyberbullying on Facebook during the past year, while 90 percent of social-media-using teens who have witnessed online cruelty say they have ignored mean behavior on social media, and 35 percent have done so frequently. 95 percent of social-media-using teens who have witnessed cruel behavior on social networking sites say they have seen others ignoring the mean behavior, and 55 percent have witnessed this frequently.\n\nAccording to a 2013 Pew Research study, eight out of ten teens who use social media now share more information about themselves than they have in the past. This includes their location, images, and contact information. In order to protect children, it is important that personal information such as age, birthday, school/church, phone number, etc. be kept confidential.\n\nTwo studies from 2014 found that 80% of body-shaming tweets are sent by women, while they also accounted for 50% of misogynistic tweets.\n\nCyberbullying can also take place through the use of websites belonging to certain groups to effectively request the targeting of another individual or group. An example of this is the bullying of climate scientists and activists.\n\nOf those who reported having experienced online harassment in a Pew Research poll, 16% said the most recent incident had occurred in an online game. A study from National Sun Yat-sen University observed that children who enjoyed violent video games were significantly more likely to both experience and perpetrate cyberbullying.\n\nAnother study that discusses the direct correlation between exposure to violent video games and cyber bullying also took into account personal factors such as \"duration of playing online games, alcohol consumption in the last 3 months, parents drunk in the last 3 months, anger, hostility, ADHD, and a sense of belonging\" as potential contributing factors of cyberbullying.\n\nGaming was a more common venue for men in which to experience harassment, whereas women's harassment tended to occur via social media. Most respondents considered gaming culture to be equally welcoming to both genders, though 44% thought it favored men. Keza MacDonald writes in \"The Guardian\" that sexism exists in gaming culture, but is not mainstream within it. Sexual harassment in gaming generally involves slurs directed towards women, sex role stereotyping, and overaggressive language. U.S. President Barack Obama made reference to the harassment of women gamers during his remarks in honor of Women's History Month.\n\nCompetitive gaming scenes have been less welcoming of women than has broader gaming culture. In an internet-streamed fighting game competition, one female gamer forfeited a match after the coach of her team, Aris Bakhtanians, stated, \"The sexual harassment is part of the culture. If you remove that from the fighting game community, it's not the fighting game community.\" The comments were widely condemned by gamers, with comments in support of sexual harassment \"drowned out by a vocal majority of people expressing outrage, disappointment and sympathy.\" The incident built momentum for action to counter sexual harassment in gaming.\n\nSome game developers have been subjected to harassment and death threats by players upset by changes to a game or by a developer's online policies. Harassment also occurs in reaction to critics such as Jack Thompson or Anita Sarkeesian, whom some fans see as threats to the medium. Various people have been harassed in connection with the Gamergate controversy. Harassment related to gaming is not of a notably different severity or tenor compared to online harassment motivated by other subcultures or advocacy issues.\n\nSabotage among rival crowdfunding campaigns is a recurring problem for projects related to gaming.\n\nSome instances of swatting in games such as \"Call of Duty\" and \"League of Legends\" have resulted in law enforcement SWAT units called on individuals' homes as a prank. On December 28, 2017, Wichita, Kansas police officers killed Andrew Finch at his Kansas home in a reported swatting prank.\n\nInformation cascades happen when users start passing along information they assume to be true, but cannot know to be true, based on information on what other users are doing. This can be accelerated by search engines' ranking technologies and their tendency to return results relevant to a user's previous interests. This type of information spreading is hard to stop. Information cascades over social media and the Internet may also be harmless, and may contain truthful information.\n\nBullies use Google bombs (a term applicable to any search engine) to increase the prominence of favored posts sorted by the most popular searches, done by linking to those posts from as many other web pages as possible. Examples include the campaign for the neologism \"santorum\" organized by the LGBT lobby. Google bombs can manipulate the Internet's search engines regardless of how authentic the pages are, but there is a way to counteract this type of manipulation as well.\n\nA majority of states have laws that explicitly include electronic forms of communication within stalking or harassment laws. Most law enforcement agencies have cyber-crime units, and Internet stalking is often treated with more seriousness than reports of physical stalking. Help and resources can be searched by state or area.\n\nThe safety of schools is increasingly becoming a focus of state legislative action. There was an increase in cyberbullying enacted legislation between 2006 and 2010. Initiatives and curriclulum requirements also exist in the UK (the Ofsted eSafety guidance) and Australia (Overarching Learning Outcome 13).\n\nIn 2012, a group of teenagers in a design class New Haven, Connecticut developed an application to help fight bullying, \"Back Off Bully\" (BOB). This is an anonymous resource for computer, smart phone or iPad. When someone witnesses or is the victim of bullying, they can immediately report the incident. The app asks questions about time, location and how the bullying is happening, as well as providing positive action and empowerment regarding the incident. The reported information goes to a database, where it may be studied by administrators. Common threads are spotted so others can intervene and break the bully's pattern. \"Back Off Bully\" is being considered as standard operating procedure at schools across Connecticut, while recent studies carried out among 66 high school teachers have concluded that prevention programs have proved ineffective to date.\n\nTeachers can also be cyberbullied by pupils, as well as by parents and other school staff.\n\nThere are laws that only address online harassment of children or focus on child predators, as well as laws that protect adult cyberstalking victims, or victims of any age. Currently, there are 45 cyberstalking (and related) laws on the books. While some sites specialize in laws that protect victims age 18 and under, Working to Halt Online Abuse is a help resource containing a list of current and pending cyberstalking-related United States federal and state laws. It also lists those states that do not yet have laws, and related laws from other countries. The Global Cyber Law Database (GCLD) aims to become the most comprehensive and authoritative source of cyber laws for all countries. Some states such as Florida, California, and Missouri have developed state laws against Cyberbullying. California has the Safe Place to Learn Act and also has a law that states \"the use of an electronic device to cause someone to fear for their life\" can be charged with a misdemeanor which can be punishable to up to one year in prison. In Florida, the \"Jeffrey Johnson Stand Up for All Students Act\" prohibits any type of bullying and does speak on cyberbullying. In Missouri, anyone who violently threatens someone over social media can be convicted with a Class A misdemeanor, but if the victim is seventeen years or younger,they can be convicted with a Class D felony.\n\nChildren report negative online behaviors occurring from the second grade. According to research, boys initiate negative online activity earlier than girls. However, by middle school, girls are more likely to engage in cyberbullying than boys. Whether the bully is male or female, the purpose is to intentionally embarrass, harass, intimidate, or make threats online.\n\nStudies on the psycho-social effects of cyberspace have begun to monitor the effects cyberbullying may have on the victims. Consequences of cyberbullying are multi-faceted, and affect online and offline behavior. Research on adolescents reported that changes in the victims' behavior as a result of cyberbullying could potentially be positive. Victims \"created a cognitive pattern of bullies, which consequently helped them to recognize aggressive people.\"\n\nHowever, the \"Journal of Psychosocial Research on Cyberspace\" abstract reports critical impacts in almost all of the respondents, taking the form of lower self-esteem, loneliness, disillusionment, and distrust of people. The more extreme effects included self-harm. Children have killed each other and committed suicide after cyberbullying incidents. Some cases of digital self-harm have been reported, in which an individual engages in cyberbullying against themselves, or purposefully and knowingly exposes themselves to cyberbullying.\n\nCyberstalking may be an extension of physical stalking, and may have criminal consequences. A target's understanding of why cyberstalking is happening is helpful to remedy and take protective action. Among factors that motivate stalkers are envy, pathological obsession (professional or sexual), unemployment or failure with own job or life, or the desire to intimidate and cause others to feel inferior. The stalker may be delusional and believe he/she \"knows\" the target. The stalker wants to instill fear in a person to justify his/her status, or may believe they can get away with these actions (anonymity).\n\nThe US federal cyberstalking law is designed to prosecute people for using electronic means to repeatedly harass or threaten someone online. There are resources dedicated to helping adult victims deal with cyberbullies legally and effectively. One of the steps recommended is to record everything and contact police.\n\nTeachers can be cyberbullied by pupils, as well as by parents and other school staff.\n\nThe nationwide Australian Covert Bullying Prevalence Survey (Cross et al., 2009) assessed cyberbullying experiences among 7,418 students. Rates of cyberbullying increased with age, with 4.9% of students in Year 4 reporting cyberbullying compared to 7.9% in year nine. Cross et al., (2009) reported that rates of bullying and harassing others were lower, but also increased with age. Only 1.2% of Year 4 students reported cyberbullying others compared to 5.6% of Year 9 students.\n\nIn mainland China, cyberbullying has yet to receive adequate scholarly attention. A study investigating the risk factors of cyberbullying sampled 1438 high school students from central China. Data showed that 34.84% had participated in bullying and 56.88% had been bullied online.\n\nA study on cyberbullying in Hong Kong chose 48 out of 7654 students from elementary school to high school who were classified as potential aggressors related to cyberbullying. 31 out of 48 students declared they barely participated in cyber-attacks. It is common among high school students (28 out of 36 students) to participate in social media platforms. 58% admitted to changing a nickname for others, 56.3% to humiliation, 54.2% to making fun of someone, and 54.2% to spreading rumors. The Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups interviewed 1820 teenagers, 17.5% of whom indicated having experienced cyberbullying. This included insults, abuse, and the publishing of personal private pictures on social media without permission.\n\nIn a study published in 2011, across 25 EU member states studied, an average 6% of children (9–16 years old) had been bullied and only 3% of them confessed to having been a bully. However, in an earlier publication by Hasenbrink et al. (2009), reporting on the results from a meta analysis from European Union countries, the authors estimated (via median results) that approximately 18% of European young people had been \"bullied/harassed/stalked\" via the internet and mobile phones. Cyberharassment rates for young people across the EU member states ranged from 10% to 52%. \n\nSourander et al. (2010) conducted a population-based cross-sectional study that took place in Finland. The authors of this study took the self-reports of 2215 Finish adolescents between the ages of 13 and 16 about cyberbullying and cybervictimization during the previous six months. It was found that, amongst the total sample, 4.8% were victims only, 7.4% were cyberbullies only, and 5.4% were cyberbully-victims.\n\nThe authors of this study were able to conclude that cyberbullying as well as cybervictimization is associated not only with psychiatric issues, but psychosomatic issues. Many adolescents in the study reported headaches or difficulty sleeping. The authors believe that their results indicate a greater need for new ideas on how to prevent cyberbullying and what to do when it occurs. It is clearly a worldwide problem that needs to be taken seriously.\n\nThe Health Behaviour in School-aged Children (HBSC) pilot survey was carried out in eight post-primary schools across Ireland, including 318 students aged 15–18. 59% were boys and 41% were girls. Participation in this survey was voluntary for students, and consent had to be obtained from parents, students and the school itself. This survey was anonymous and confidential, and took 40 minutes to complete. It asked questions on traditional forms of bullying as well as cyberbullying, risk behaviours and self-reported health and life satisfaction.\n\n66% of the students said that they had never been bullied. 14% had been victims of traditional forms of bullying. 10% had been victims of cyberbullying, and the remaining 10% had been victims of both traditional forms of bullying and cyberbullying. Boys mostly said they were victims of traditional forms of bullying, and girls mostly were victims of both traditional forms of bullying and cyberbullying. 20% of the students in this survey said that they had been cyberbullied, showing that cyberbullying is on the rise.\n\nArrow DIT claims that 23 percent of 9–16 year olds in Ireland have been bullied online or offline, compared to 19 percent in Europe. Although online bullying in Ireland stands at 4% according to Arrow DIT, this lower than the European average which stands at 6%, and half that of the UK where 8% reported being cyberbullied. Traditional forms of bullying in Ireland occur more often than in Europe.\n\nA 2018 study by Dublin City University (DCU)'s National Anti-Bullying Research and Resource Centre (ABC) found that almost 10% of post-primary teachers were victims of cyberbullying, and 15% knew of a colleague who had experienced it in the previous 12 months. 59% of the bullying was by pupils, mainly on social media, with the rest perpetrated by parents and other school staff. Various effects on bullied teachers included increased stress and anxiety, \"negative impacts on their working environment, and a reluctance to report the issue and seek help from management\".\n\nAccording to recent research, in Japan, 17 percent (compared with a 25-country average of 37 percent) of youth between the ages of 8 and 17 have been victims of online bullying. The number shows that online bullying is a serious concern in Japan. Teenagers who spend more than 10 hours a week on the Internet are more likely to become the targets of online bullying. Only 28 percent of the survey participants understood what cyberbullying is. However, they do know the severity of the issue; 63 percent of the surveyed students worried about being targeted as victims of cyberbullying.\n\nSince teenagers find themselves congregating socially on the internet via social media, they become easy targets for cyberbullying. Cyberbullying may occur via email, text, chat rooms, and social media websites. Some cyberbullies set up websites or blogs to post the target's images, publicize their personal information, gossip about the target, express why they hate the target, request people to agree with the bully's view, and send links to the target to make sure they are watching the activity.\n\nMuch cyberbullying is an act of relational aggression, which involves alienating the victim from peers through gossip or ostracism. This kind of attack can be easily launched via texting or other online activities. One 19-year-old Japanese student was targeted by classmates who posted his photo online, insulted him constantly, and asked him to die. Because of the constant harassment, he did attempt suicide twice. Even when he quit school, the attacks did not stop.\n\nCyberbullying can cause serious psychological impact to the victims. They often feel anxious, nervous, tired, and depressed. Other examples of negative psychological trauma include losing confidence as a result being socially isolated from their schoolmates or friends. Psychological problems can also show up in the form of headaches, skin problems, abdominal pain, sleep problems, bed-wetting, and crying. It may also lead victims to commit suicide to end the bullying.\n\nA survey by the Crimes Against Children Research Center at the University of New Hampshire in 2000 found that 6% of the young people in the survey had experienced some form of harassment, including threats and negative rumors, and 2% had suffered distressing harassment.\n\nThe 2004 I-Safe.org survey of 1,500 students between grades 4 and 8 found:\n\nThe Youth Internet Safety Survey-2, conducted by the Crimes Against Children Research Center at the University of New Hampshire in 2005, found that 9% of the young people in the survey had experienced some form of harassment. The survey was a nationally representative telephone survey of 1,500 youth 10–17 years old. One-third reported feeling distressed by the incident, with distress being more likely for younger respondents and those who were the victims of aggressive harassment (including being telephoned, sent gifts, or visited at home by the harasser). Compared to youth not harassed online, victims are more likely to have social problems. On the other hand, youth who harass others are more likely to have problems with rule breaking and aggression.\n\nHinduja and Patchin completed a study in the summer of 2005 of approximately 1,500 Internet-using adolescents and found that over one-third of youth reported being victimized online, and over 16% of respondents admitted to cyberbullying others. While most of the instances of cyberbullying involved relatively minor behavior (41% were disrespected, 19% were called names), over 12% were physically threatened and about 5% were scared for their safety. Notably, fewer than 15% of victims told an adult about the incident. Additional research by Hinduja and Patchin in 2007 found that youth who report being victims of cyberbullying also experience stress or strain that is related to offline problem behaviors such as running away from home, cheating on a test, skipping school, or using alcohol or marijuana. The authors acknowledge that both of these studies provide only preliminary information about the nature and consequences of online bullying, due to the methodological challenges associated with an online survey.\n\nAccording to a 2005 survey by the National Children's Home charity and Tesco Mobile, of 770 youth between the ages of 11 and 19, 20% of respondents revealed that they had been bullied via electronic means. Almost three-quarters (73%) stated that they knew the bully, while 26% stated that the offender was a stranger. 10% of responders indicated that another person had taken a picture and/or video of them via a cellular phone camera, consequently making them feel uncomfortable, embarrassed, or threatened. Many youths are not comfortable telling an authority figure about their cyberbullying victimization for fear their access to technology will be taken from them; while 24% and 14% told a parent or teacher respectively, 28% did not tell anyone, and 41% told a friend.\n\nAccording to the 2006 \"Harris Interactive Cyberbullying Research Report\", commissioned by the National Crime Prevention Council, cyberbullying is a problem that \"affects almost half of all American teens\".\n\nStudies published in 2007 in the \"Journal of Adolescent Health\" indicated young people reporting being victims of electronic aggression in a range of 9% to 35%.\n\nIn 2007, Debbie Heimowitz, a Stanford University master's student, created \"Adina's Deck\", a film based on Stanford-accredited research. She worked in focus groups for ten weeks in three schools to learn about the problem of cyberbullying in northern California. The findings determined that over 60% of students had been cyberbullied and were victims of cyberbullying. The film is now being used in classrooms nationwide as it was designed around learning goals pertaining to problems that students had understanding the topic. The middle school of Megan Meier is reportedly using the film as a solution to the crisis in their town.\n\nIn 2008, researchers Sameer Hinduja (Florida Atlantic University) and Justin Patchin (University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire) published a book on cyberbullying that summarized the current state of cyberbullying research (\"Bullying Beyond the Schoolyard: Preventing and Responding to Cyberbullying\"). Their research documented that cyberbullying instances had been increasing over the preceding several years. They also reported findings from a then-recent study of cyberbullying. In a random sample of approximately 2000 middle-school students from a large school district in the southern United States, about 10% of respondents reported being cyberbullied in the previous 30 days while over 17% reported having been cyberbullied at least once in their lifetime. While these rates are slightly lower than some of the findings from their previous research, Hinduja and Patchin pointed out that the earlier studies were predominantly conducted among older adolescents and Internet samples. That is, older youth use the Internet more frequently and are more likely to experience cybe-bullying than younger children.\n\nAccording to the 2011 National Crime Victimization Survey, conducted by the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics, School Crime Supplement (SCS), 9% of students of ages 12–18 admitted to having experienced cyberbullying during that school year (with a coefficient of variation between 30% and 50%).\n\nIn the Youth Risk Behavior Survey 2013, the Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published results of its survey as part of the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS) in June 2014, indicating the percentage of school children being bullied through e-mail, chat rooms, instant messaging, websites, or texting (\"electronically bullied\") during the course of 2013.\n\nIn 2014, Mehari, Farrell, and Le published a study that focused on the literature on cyberbullying among adolescents. They found that researchers have generally assumed that cyberbullying is distinct from aggression perpetrated in person. Mehari et al. suggest that the media through which aggression is perpetrated may be best conceptualized as a new classification of aggression, rather than considering cyberbullying as a distinct counterpart to existing forms of aggression. They suggest that future research on cyberbullying should be considered within the context of theoretical and empirical knowledge of aggression in adolescence.\n\nMary Howlett-Brandon's doctoral dissertation analyzed the National Crime Victimization Survey: Student Crime Supplement, 2009, to focus on the cyberbullying victimization of Black and White students in specific conditions.\n\nWalletHub's 2015's \"Best & Worst States at Controlling Bullying\" report measured the relative levels of bullying in 42 states. According to the report, North Dakota, Illinois, Louisiana, Rhode Island, and Washington D.C. have the most attempted suicides by high school students. The five states with highest percentage of students being bullied on campus are Missouri, Michigan, Idaho, North Dakota, and Montana.\n\nCyberbullying on social media has usually been student-to-student, but recently, students have been cyberbullying their teachers. High school students in Colorado created a Twitter site that bullies teachers. This ranges from obscenities to false accusations of inappropriate actions with students.\n\nResearch conducted to try and determine differences in cyber bullying patterns comparing male to female and ages of each are relatively inconclusive. There are some factors that lean towards males being more involved in cyber bullying behaviors due to males tending to have more aggressive behaviors than females. This is not proven but speculated based on literature reviews of research indicating that significant data is self-reported. Comparatively, the review of articles indicates that age differences have some indicators of cyber bullying; increasing age indicates increasing bullying behaviors. Gender differences have mixed results but one finding indicated that younger females(10 or 11) and older males(13+) tend to engage in cyber bullying behaviors.\n\nLegislation geared at penalizing cyberbullying has been introduced in a number of U.S. states including New York, Missouri, Rhode Island and Maryland. At least 45 states have passed laws against digital harassment. Dardenne Prairie of Springfield, Missouri, passed a city ordinance making online harassment a misdemeanor. The city of St. Charles, Missouri passed a similar ordinance. Missouri is among the states where lawmakers are pursuing state legislation, with task forces expected to have cyberbullying laws drafted and implemented. In June 2008, Rep. Linda Sanchez (D-Calif.) and Rep. Kenny Hulshof (R-Mo.) proposed a federal law that would criminalize acts of cyberbullying.\n\nLawmakers are seeking to address cyberbullying with new legislation because there is currently no specific law on the books that deals with it. A fairly new federal cyberstalking law might address such acts, according to Parry Aftab, but no one has been prosecuted under it yet. The proposed federal law would make it illegal to use electronic means to \"coerce, intimidate, harass or cause other substantial emotional distress.\"\n\nIn August 2008, the California state legislature passed one of the first laws in the country to deal directly with cyberbullying. Assembly Bill 86 2008 gives school administrators the authority to discipline students for bullying, offline or online. This law took effect on January 1, 2009.\n\nA law in New York's Albany County that criminalized cyberbullying was struck down as unconstitutional by the New York Court of Appeals in \"People v. Marquan M.\"\n\nA recent ruling first seen in the UK determined that it is possible for an Internet service provider (ISP) to be liable for the content of the sites it hosts, setting a precedent that any ISP should treat a notice of complaint seriously and investigate it immediately.\n\nWhile some states have laws that require schools to mediate cyberbullying conflicts, several states have been sued on First Amendment grounds for doing so. By examining the decisions of three such lawsuits heard in lower courts, Alvin J. Primack and Kevin A. Johnson argued that current First Amendment doctrine, particularly the case of \"Morse v. Frederick\" (2007), may offer interpretive resources for justifying administrative reach to some online digital speech. They concluded, \"[w]ithout clearer standards, school administrators are likely to feel constrained and err on the side of inaction.\"\n\nSince the 1990s, the United Kingdom and other European countries have been working to solve workplace bullying since there is no legislation regulating cyberbullying. The pervasive nature of technology has made the act of bullying online much easier. A 24-hour internet connection gives bullies a neverending opportunity to find and bully victims. Employers in the European Union have more legal responsibility to their employees than do those in other countries. Since employers do not have the ability to fire or hire an employee at will like in the United States, employers in Europe are held to a high standard in how their employees are treated.\n\nIn 2007, the European Union developed the Framework Agreement on Harassment and Violence at Work, a law that prevents bullying occurring in the workplace and holds employers accountable for providing fair working conditions. The law defines the responsibilities of an employer such as protecting his or her employees from bullies in a work environment and the psychological pain a victim faces from bullies during business hours. Lawyers pursuing cyberbullying cases use the Ordinance on Victimization at Work law, since there are not any laws specifically condemning cyberbullying.\n\nIn 1993, Sweden was the first European Union country to have a law against cyberbullying. The Ordinance on Victimization at Work protected victims from \"recurrent reprehensible or distinctly negative actions which are directed which are directed against individual employees in an offensive manner and can result in those employees being placed outside the workplace community\".\n\nIn 2002, France passed the Social Modernization Law, which added consequences to the French Labor Code for cyberbullying such as holding employers accountable for their involvement in harassment. The legislation defines \"moral harassment\" as \"repeated acts leading to a\ndeterioration of the working conditions and that are likely to harm the dignity, the physical or\npsychological heath of the victim or his professional career.\"\n\nThe United Kingdom does not have anti-bullying legislation. However, it does have the Protection From Harassment Act, an anti-stalking law. U.K. courts have used this legislation in bullying cases.\nThe United States and some other countries have more extensive legislation on cyberbullying than the European Union. Cyberbullying incidents on social media are widespread and have increased drastically in number. However, the process of getting a claim against a bully is not an easy one because of the victim's need to provide sufficient evidence to prove the existence of bullying.\n\nAs of mid-2015, countries in the European Union like the United Kingdom are in the process of creating laws specially related to cyberbullying. Since the process takes time, the government is supporting school programs to promote internet safety with the help of teachers and parents. This will allow the government to take the time it needs to create the cyberbullying laws while helping safeguard students from cyberbullying as much as possible.\n\nResearchers suggest that programs be put in place for prevention of cyberbullying. These programs would be incorporated into school curricula and would include online safety and instruction on how to use the Internet properly. This could teach the victim proper methods of potentially avoiding the cyberbully, such as blocking messages or increasing the security of their computer.\n\nEven in a perfect world, no crime can be stopped fully. That is why it is suggested that within this prevention method, effective coping strategies should be introduced and adopted. As with any crime, people learn to cope with what has happened. People can adopt coping strategies to combat future cyberbullying. Coping strategies may include social support groups composed of victims of cyberbullying, which could allow students to share their stories, and remove the feeling of being alone.\n\nTeachers should be involved in all prevention educational models, as they are essentially the \"police\" of the classroom. Most cyberbullying often goes unreported as the victim feels nothing can be done to help in their current situation. However, if given the proper tools with preventative measures and more power in the classroom, teachers can be of assistance. If the parent, teacher, and victim can work together, solutions may be found.\n\nThere have been many legislative attempts to facilitate the control of bullying and cyberbullying. Some existing legislation is incorrectly thought to be tied to bullying and cyberbullying (including terms such as \"libel\" and \"slander\"). The problem is that the existing legislation does not directly apply to bullying, nor define it as its own criminal behavior. Anti-cyberbullying advocates have even expressed concern about the broad scope of some of the bills attempted to be passed.\n\nIn the United States, attempts have been made to pass legislation against cyberbullying. Few states attempted to pass broad sanctions in an effort to prohibit cyberbullying. Problems include how to define cyberbullying and cyberstalking, and, if charges are pressed, whether this violates the bully's freedom of speech. B. Walther said that \"Illinois is the only state to criminalize 'electronic communication(s) sent for the purpose of harassing another person' when the activity takes place outside a public school setting.\" This was criticized for infringement on freedom of speech.\n\n'Cyberbullying' is the use of technology to bully a person, or threatening an individual online. Cyberbullying has become more common nowadays because of all the technology that children have access to. The most common apps that teenagers use to cyberbully are Instagram, Twitter, and Snapchat. Cyberbullying has become harder to stop because parents and teachers are unaware of when and where it is happening. Online bullying has become a bigger problem and 33% of all youth has been a victim of cyberbullying. Teens will say awful things to one another online and what they do not realize is that once it is said and published online it will not go away. Home used to be a safe place for teens but now a child is still within reach of becoming a victim of cyberbullying- whether it is through YouTube, Ask.fm, or a text message.\n\nPreventing a child from being cyberbullied is hard, but now they are working to form laws to help stop the issue from getting worse than it already is. They have created movies such as 'Cyberbully' by Charles Biname and 'The Duff' by Ari Sandel for teenagers to watch and see how cyberbullying can affect an individual. Parents can become more involved in their children's lives when it comes to social media to help prevent their child from being bullied. Children that are victims of this problem feel they can not go to an adult for help because they may feel embarrassed by the situation. Bullying online will not only hurt the teenager emotionally but there is also a risk of the child hurting themselves physically as well. Suicide has become the 3rd leading cause of death among persons from 10 to 24 years of age and online bullying takes a big part in that.\n\nBeing able to tell if a child is being hurt from this issue can be tough, but there are certain things that a child will do that should give a red flag that they are being bullied. Such as if they post a video or a picture on Instagram with comments like \"Am I ugly? Someone said I was but is it true?\" or \"Am I cute?\". A cyberbully could have said nasty words to that child and the victim could be looking for compliments. If the victim is always online wondering when the bully will strike next that could also be a sign. Being an active parent in their children's lives will make a difference on whether your child is experiencing online bullying or not. Also bringing police involved in the case will be a problem solver too.\n\nResearch has demonstrated a number of serious consequences of cyberbullying victimization. Victims may have lower self-esteem, increased suicidal ideation, and a variety of emotional responses, including being scared, frustrated, angry, and depressed. Cyberbullying may be more harmful than traditional bullying, because there is no escaping it. One of the most damaging effects is that a victim begins to avoid friends and activities, which is often the very intention of the bully.\n\nCyberbullying campaigns are sometimes so damaging that victims have committed suicide. There are at least four examples in the United States in which cyberbullying has been linked to the suicide of a teenager. The suicide of Megan Meier is a recent example that led to the conviction of the adult perpetrator of the attacks. Holly Grogan committed suicide by jumping off a 30-foot bridge near Gloucester in the UK. It was reported that a number of her schoolmates had posted a number of hateful messages on her Facebook page.\n\nAccording to Lucie Russell, director of campaigns, policy and participation at youth mental health charity Young Minds, young people who suffer from mental disorders are vulnerable to cyberbullying as they are sometimes unable to shrug it off:\n\nWhen someone says nasty things healthy people can filter that out, they're able to put a block between that and their self-esteem. But mentally unwell people don't have the strength and the self-esteem to do that, to separate it, and so it gets compiled with everything else. To them, it becomes the absolute truth – there's no filter, there's no block. That person will take that on, take it as fact.\n\nSocial media has allowed bullies to disconnect from the impact they may be having on others.\n\nAccording to the Cyberbullying Research Center, \"there have been several high‐profile cases involving teenagers taking their own lives in part because of being harassed and mistreated over the Internet, a phenomenon we have termed cyberbullicide – suicide indirectly or directly influenced by experiences with online aggression.\"\n\nCyberbullying is an intense form of psychological abuse, whose victims are more than twice as likely to suffer from mental disorders compared to traditional bullying.\n\nThe reluctance youth have in telling an authority figure about instances of cyberbullying has led to fatal outcomes. At least three children between the ages of 12 and 13 have committed suicide due to depression brought on by cyberbullying, according to reports by \"USA Today\" and the \"Baltimore Examiner\". These include the suicide of Ryan Halligan and the suicide of Megan Meier, the latter of which resulted in \"United States v. Lori Drew\". Teen suicides tied to cyberbullying have recently become more prevalent. Rebecca Ann Sedwick committed suicide after being terrorized through mobile applications such as Ask.fm, Kik Messenger and Voxer.\n\nThe effects of cyberbullying vary, but research illustrates that cyberbullying adversely affects youth to a higher degree than adolescents and adults. Youth are more likely to suffer since they are still growing mentally and physically. Jennifer N. Caudle, a certified family physician, says, \"Kids that are bullied are likely to experience anxiety, depression, loneliness, unhappiness and poor sleep\".\n\nMost of the time cyberbullying goes unnoticed; the younger generation hides their bullying from anyone that can help to prevent the bullying from occurring and from getting worse. Between 20% and 40% of adolescents are victims of cyberbullying worldwide. The youth slowly change their behaviors and actions so they become more withdrawn and quiet, but this may go unnoticed since the change is subtle. Metin Deniz believes cyberbullying will \"become a serious problem in the future with an increase in the Internet and mobile phone usage among young people\".\n\nIf preventive actions are not taken against cyberbullying, younger children in addition to teenagers will feel more lonely and depressed along with having significant changes in their eating and sleeping patterns as well as loss of interest in their normal activities. These changes will affect their growth and development into adulthood. Younger children and teenagers are 76.2% less likely to display suicidal behaviors and thoughts, but are still at risk depending on other factors such as mental health status, home care, and relationships with others. The risk of suicide increases by 35% to 45% when victims do not have any support from anyone in their life, and cyberbullying amplifies the situation.\n\nYoung people seem particularly vulnerable to the effects of cyberbullying through anonymous social media, perhaps because adolescents are attracted to these platforms as a means of seeking validation from their peers. Abuse on these platforms, such as ASKfm, Yik Yak and Sarahah, can be particularly keenly felt by young people, leading to issues of loss of confidence. There have been a number of suicides related to bullying on these platforms in the US and Britain.\n\nThe Cybersmile Foundation is a cyberbullying charity committed to tackling all forms of online bullying, abuse, and hate campaigns. It was founded in 2010 in response to the increasing number of cyberbullying related incidents of depression, eating disorders, social isolation, self-harm and suicides devastating lives around the world. Cybersmile provides support to victims and their friends and families through social media interaction, email and helpline support. They also run an annual event, Stop Cyberbullying Day, to draw attention to the issue.\n\nMultiple non-profit organizations fight cyberbullying and cyberstalking. They advise victims, provide awareness campaigns, and report offenses to the police. These NGOs include the \"Protégeles\", \"PantallasAmigas\", \"Foundation Alia2\", the non-profit initiative \"Actúa Contra el Ciberacoso\", the National Communications Technology Institute (INTECO), the Agency of Internet quality, the \"Agencia Española de Protección de Datos\", the \"Oficina de Seguridad del Internauta\", the Spanish Internet users' Association, the Internauts' Association, and the Spanish Association of Mothers and Parents Internauts. The government of Castile and León has also created a \"Plan de Prevención del Ciberacoso y Promoción de la Navegación Segura en Centro Escolares\", and the government of the Canary Islands has created a portal on the phenomenon called \"Viveinternet\".\n\nIn March 2007, the Advertising Council in the United States, in partnership with the National Crime Prevention Council, U.S. Department of Justice, and Crime Prevention Coalition of America, joined to announce the launch of a new public service advertising campaign designed to educate preteens and teens about how they can play a role in ending cyberbullying.\n\nAs of 2008, the Boy Scouts of America's 2008 edition of \"The Boy Scout Handbook\" addresses how to deal with online bullying. A new First Class rank requirements adds: \"Describe the three things you should avoid doing related to use of the Internet. Describe a cyberbully and how you should respond to one.\"\n\nIn 2008, KTTV Fox 11 News in Los Angeles put out a report about organized cyberbullying on sites like Stickam by people who call themselves \"/b/rothas\". The site had put out a report on July 26, 2007, about a subject that partly featured cyberbullying, titled \"Hackers on Steroids\".\n\nOn June 2, 2008, parents, teens, teachers, and Internet executives came together at Wired Safety's International Stop Cyberbullying Conference, a two-day gathering in White Plains, New York and New York City. Executives from Facebook, Verizon, MySpace, Microsoft, and many others talked with hundreds about how to better protect themselves and their personal reputations, children and businesses from online harassment. Sponsors of the conference included McAfee, AOL, Disney, Procter & Gamble, Girl Scouts of the USA, WiredTrust, Children's Safety Research and Innovation Centre, and KidZui.com. Cyberharassment versus cyberbullying was a forefront topic, where age makes a difference; abusive internet behavior by adults with the repeated clear intent to harm, ridicule or damage a person or business was classified as stalking harassment, versus bullying by teens and young adults.\n\nAn organized movement to make revenge porn illegal began in August 2012: End Revenge Porn. Currently revenge porn is only illegal in two states, but the demand for its criminalization is on the rise as digital technology has increased in the past few generations. The organization seeks to provide support for victims, educate the public, and gain activist support to bring new legislation before the United States Government.\n\nIn 2006, PACER.org created a week-long event that was held once a year in October. Today, the campaign is a month-long event and is now known as the National Bullying Prevention Awareness Month.\n\nOriginating in Canada, Anti-Bullying Day is a day of celebration for those who choose to participate wearing a symbol of colours (pink, blue or purple) as a stance against bullying. A British Columbia teacher founded the Stop A Bully movement, which uses pink wristbands to represent the wearer's stance to stop bullying.\n\nPink Shirt Day was inspired by David Shepherd and Travis Price. Their high school friends organized a protest in sympathy for a Grade 9 boy who was bullied for wearing a pink shirt. Their stance from wearing pink has been a huge inspiration in the Great Vancouver Mainland. \"We know that victims of bullying, witnesses of bullying and bullies themselves all experience the very real and long term negative impacts of bullying regardless of its forms – physical, verbal, written, or on-line (cyberbullying)\".\n\nERASE (Expect Respect and A Safe Education) is an initiative started by the province of British Columbia to foster safe schools and prevent bullying. It builds on already-effective programs set up by the provincial government to ensure consistent policies and practices regarding the prevention of bullying.\n\nA number of organizations are in coalition to provide awareness, protection and recourse for this escalating problem. Some aim to inform and provide measures to avoid as well as effectively terminate cyberbullying and cyberharassment. Anti-bullying charity Act Against Bullying launched the CyberKind campaign in August 2009 to promote positive internet usage.\n\nIn 2007, YouTube introduced the first Anti-Bullying Channel for youth (BeatBullying), using the assistance of celebrities to tackle the problem.\n\nIn March 2010, a 17-year-old girl named Alexis Skye Pilkington was found dead in her room by her parents. Her parents claimed that after repeated cyberbullying, she was driven to suicide. Shortly after her death, attacks resumed. Members of eBaums World began to troll teens' memorial pages on Facebook, with the comments including expressions of pleasure over the death, with pictures of what seemed to be a banana as their profile pictures. Family and friends of the deceased teen responded by creating Facebook groups denouncing cyberbullying and trolling, with logos of bananas behind a red circle with a diagonal line through it.\n\nIn response and partnership to the 2011 film \"Bully\", a grassroots effort to stop cyberbullying called the Bully Project was created. Their goal is to start \"a national movement to stop bullying that is transforming children's lives and changing a culture of bullying into one of empathy and action.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32923312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32923312", "title": "Declaration of Principles on Equality", "text": "Declaration of Principles on Equality\n\nThe Declaration of Principles on Equality reflects a moral and professional consensus among human rights and equality experts done in December 2008. It contains 27 principles that establish a new paradigm on equality, drawing on established and emerging principles of international law. It has been described by the High Court of Delhi as reflecting the ‘current international understanding of Principles on Equality.’\n\nThe need to formulate general legal principles on equality was defined on the basis of (i) acknowledging the pervasiveness of discrimination and the weaknesses in the protection of the right to equality at both international and national levels, (ii) the absence of comprehensive equality legislation in many countries around the world and the recognition that such legislation is necessary to give effect to states’ obligations under international and regional human rights law; (iii) the disparities and inconsistencies in approaches to discrimination and equality in the different frameworks of the UN, EU, the Council of Europe, various national jurisdictions, etc. which meant that virtually none of the key concepts of equality law had universally accepted definitions; (iv) the fragmentation of the anti-discrimination struggle, whereby different status/identity groups are enmeshed in identity politics and are unable to follow a universal human rights approach to equality and develop solidarity with other disadvantaged groups.\n\nThe Principles on Equality were agreed by a group of experts in several stages of consultations. They were discussed at a conference entitled ‘Principles on Equality and the Development of Legal Standards on Equality’ organised by The Equal Rights Trust (ERT) on 3–5 April 2008 in London. Participants of different backgrounds, including academics, legal practitioners and human rights activists from all regions of the world took part in this event. Participants debated a version of the draft that had incorporated their comments on an earlier document. They subsequently contributed comments. A number of further experts participated in various stages of drafting and deliberation.\n\nERT launched the Declaration of Principles on Equality on 21 October 2008, in London. The document was signed initially by 128 experts from 44 countries, and subsequently by hundreds of others. It establishes, for the first time, general legal principles on equality as a basic human right. The Declaration contains 27 principles on which national equality legislation and policies should be based. The principles formulated and agreed by the experts through a two-year-long consultative process are based on concepts and jurisprudence developed in international, regional and national legal contexts. The Declaration is intended to assist efforts of legislators, the judiciary, civil society organisations and anyone else involved in combating discrimination and promoting equality, in particular through developing effective equality legislation and policies.\n\nThe legal basis of the 27 Principles is found (i) in the Charter of the United Nations which recognises the inherent dignity and worth and the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family as the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world; (ii) Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights proclaiming that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights; and common Article 2 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; (iii) the recognition, in Article 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, of the right to non-discrimination as an autonomous human right and the correlative obligation of States to realise this right; (iv) a number of provisions in international and regional treaties; (v) non-binding opinions, recommendations, and interpretations by organs of international and regional organisation including the Council of Europe; (vi) jurisprudence of international, regional and national courts related to equality.\n\nMarking a transition from identity politics to a unitary human rights framework on equality, \nthe Declaration provides guidance on some of the most complex and controversial issues that arise in any attempt to develop comprehensive equality legislation at the national level. For example, it defines the right to equality, equal treatment, and the right to non-discrimination, and gives a legal definition of discrimination, as well as of the most important types of discrimination (direct, indirect, harassment, discrimination by association and by perception); through these, it provides guidance on the question of how the right to non-discrimination relates to the right to equality. The Declaration also provides general principles on how to approach the question of the grounds on which discrimination must be prohibited: should the right to non-discrimination apply only to a closed list of grounds? Are new grounds emerging that should require equal pro-tection? Is there a hierarchy of the ground of discrimination, and what should be the approach to defining exceptions?\n\nHaving taken account of the existing notions of affirmative action, positive action, special measures and positive measures in various legal frameworks, the Declaration further formulates principles on which to base the law on positive action and positive duties. Positive action does not constitute discrimination as long as the difference in treatment is aimed at achieving full and effective equality and the means adopted are proportionate to that aim. Positive ac¬tion measures are not defined as an exception to the principle of equal treatment but as part of its implementation. States have a positive duty to promote equality.\n\nThe definition of the right to non-discrimination in Principle 4 as a free-standing right is meant in two senses: (i) in the sense that it is a separate right, which can be violated even if a related right is not: for example, a person’s right to non-discrimination in the enjoyment of the right to education may be violated, while no breach of her right to education has been found; this understanding is well established in the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human rights; (ii) in the sense of an autonomous right, not related to any other right set forth by law. In this second sense, the free-standing status of the right to non-discrimination means that this right does not depend on whether another legal right actually exists. This is the approach followed in defining discrimination in the European Union equality Directives, as well as in the national legislation of a number of the EU member states.\n\nThe Declaration further contains principles on equality related to: the relationship between discrimination and violence; the scope of application of the right to equality (“all areas of activity regulated by law”); the personal scope: who are the right-holders, e.g. whether legal persons can claim the right as well as individuals and groups; the definition of duty-bearers; the content of the duty to give effect to the right to equality; the obligations regarding multiple discrimination; the duty of accommodating difference (defining the concept of reasonable accommodation); the relationship between the right to equality and poverty; the specificity of equality legislation; the duty to ensure participation in developing law and policies implementing the right to equality; and the duty to provide education related to equality.\n\nAnother set of principles are related to enforcement of the right to equality and define access to justice in equality law; victimisation; standing rules; evidence and proof in adjudicating equality rights; remedies and sanctions; the role of specialised bodies; and the duty to gather and disseminate information including statistics as part of the enforcement of the right to equality. Finally, the Declaration contains principles prohibiting regressive interpretation and derogations from the right to equality.\n\nThe Declaration of Principles on Equality, as its title indicates, provides only the most general and abstract synthesis of legal standards on equality. Those who would be looking for more detailed guidance on specific issues would be disappointed. But the Declaration’s significance consists in the fact that it documents a degree of moral and professional consensus among global experts at the most fundamental level, reflecting both basic values shared by the signatories and a negotiated agreement on exactly how to express these values in the form and the language of universal legal principles. As an established common ground, the Declaration can therefore serve as the basis for further elaboration of specific legal standards related to equality issues.\n\nOn 25 November 2011, the Standing Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) adopted a Resolution and a Recommendation on “The Declaration of Principles on Equality and the Activities of the Council of Europe” at its meeting in Edinburgh, UK, welcoming and endorsing the Declaration.\n\nThe Resolution, for the adoption of which a simple majority was necessary, and the Recommendation, which required a qualified majority of two thirds, were voted on during the session of the Standing Committee under the UK Chairmanship of the Council of Europe in Edinburgh. The Standing Committee acts on behalf of PACE when the latter is not in session, and its Resolutions and Recommendations have identical legal status with those of the full assembly.\n\nIn the Resolution, the Parliamentary Assembly welcomes the Declaration of Principles on Equality and “calls on member states to take into account the principles contained in the Declaration when adopting equality and non-discrimination legislation and policies”.\n\nIn the Recommendation, which is addressed to the Committee of Ministers, the highest executive authority of the Council of Europe:\n\n“1. Referring to its Resolution on the Declaration of Principles on Equality and activities of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly recommends that the Committee of Ministers:\n\n1.1. enhance efforts aimed at speeding up ratification of Protocol No. 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights (ETS No. 5) by the members states which have not yet done so;\n\n1.2. disseminate information on good practices in the implementation of policies aimed at combating discrimination and inequalities;\n\n1.3. ensure that the Declaration is taken into account in the work of the different Council of Europe bodies and expert groups dealing with the issues of equality and non-discrimination;\n\n1.4. promote the Declaration in its dealings with external actors, and in particular with policymakers from the Council of Europe member states;\n\n2. Moreover, recalling the necessity of harmonising the interpretation and implementation of the rights to equality and non-discrimination, the Assembly recommends that the Committee of Ministers:\n\n2.1. step up co-operation with the European Union on the consolidation of standards in the area of non-discrimination and promotion of equality;\n\n2.2. pursue co-operation with other international organisations, in particular the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), the United Nations and its Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, with a view to achieving coherent interpretations of the principles of equality and non-discrimination and the implementation of common policies in the field of combating discrimination and inequalities.”\n\nThe Resolution and Recommendation were proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights (CLAHR), whose member Boriss Cilevics (Latvia) was the Rapporteur on the matter. The position of the CLAHR, which was adopted in June 2011 in Oslo, was preceded by a hearing held in Paris on 8 March 2011, at which The Equal Rights Trust provided testimony. The Recommendation will now progress to the Committee of Ministers which should consider a response.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25187803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25187803", "title": "Distortion (mathematics)", "text": "Distortion (mathematics)\n\nIn mathematics, the distortion is a measure of the amount by which a function from the Euclidean plane to itself distorts circles to ellipses. If the distortion of a function is equal to one, then it is conformal; if the distortion is bounded and the function is a homeomorphism, then it is quasiconformal. The distortion of a function ƒ of the plane is given by\n\nwhich is the limiting eccentricity of the ellipse produced by applying ƒ to small circles centered at \"z\". This geometrical definition is often very difficult to work with, and the necessary analytical features can be extrapolated to the following definition. A mapping \"ƒ\" : Ω → R from an open domain in the plane to the plane has finite distortion at a point \"x\" ∈ Ω if \"ƒ\" is in the Sobolev space W(Ω, R), the Jacobian determinant J(\"x\",ƒ) is locally integrable and does not change sign in Ω, and there is a measurable function \"K\"(\"x\") ≥ 1 such that\n\nalmost everywhere. Here \"Df\" is the weak derivative of ƒ, and |\"Df\"| is the Hilbert–Schmidt norm.\n\nFor functions on a higher-dimensional Euclidean space R, there are more measures of distortion because there are more than two principal axes of a symmetric tensor. The pointwise information is contained in the \"distortion tensor\"\n\nThe outer distortion \"K\" and inner distortion \"K\" are defined via the Rayleigh quotients\n\nThe outer distortion can also be characterized by means of an inequality similar to that given in the two-dimensional case. If Ω is an open set in R, then a function has finite distortion if its Jacobian is locally integrable and does not change sign, and there is a measurable function \"K\" (the outer distortion) such that\n\nalmost everywhere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1100001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1100001", "title": "Einselection", "text": "Einselection\n\nIn quantum mechanics, einselection, short for \"environment-induced superselection\", is a name coined by Wojciech H. Zurek\nfor a process which is claimed to explain the appearance of wavefunction collapse and the emergence of classical descriptions of reality from quantum descriptions. In this approach, classicality is described as an emergent property induced in open quantum systems by their environments. Due to the interaction with the environment, the vast majority of states in the Hilbert space of a quantum open system become highly unstable due to entangling interaction with the environment, which in effect monitors selected observables of the system. After a decoherence time, which for macroscopic objects is typically many orders of magnitude shorter than any other dynamical timescale, a generic quantum state decays into an uncertain state which can be decomposed into a mixture of simple pointer states. In this way the environment induces effective superselection rules. Thus, einselection precludes stable existence of pure superpositions of pointer states. These 'pointer states' are stable despite environmental interaction. The einselected states lack coherence, and therefore do not exhibit the quantum behaviours of entanglement and superposition.\n\nAdvocates of this approach argue that since only quasi-local, essentially classical states survive the decoherence process, einselection can in many ways explain the emergence of a (seemingly) classical reality in a fundamentally quantum universe (at least to local observers). However, the basic program has been criticized as relying on a circular argument (e.g. R. E. Kastner ). So the question of whether the 'einselection' account can really explain the phenomenon of wave function collapse remains unsettled.\n\nZurek has defined einselection as follows \"Decoherence leads to einselection when the states of the environment formula_1 corresponding to different pointer states become orthogonal:\nformula_2\",\n\nEinselected pointer states are distinguished by their ability to persist in spite of the environmental monitoring and therefore are the ones in which quantum open systems are observed. Understanding the nature of these states and the process of their dynamical selection is of fundamental importance. This process has been studied first in a measurement situation: When the system is an apparatus whose intrinsic dynamics can be neglected, pointer states turn out to be eigenstates of the interaction Hamiltonian between the apparatus and its environment. In more general situations, when the system's dynamics is relevant, einselection is more complicated. Pointer states result from the interplay between self-evolution and environmental monitoring.\n\nTo study einselection, an operational definition of pointer states has been introduced.\nThis is the \"predictability sieve\" criterion, based on an intuitive idea: \"Pointer states\" can be defined as the ones which become minimally entangled with the environment in the course of their evolution. The predictability sieve criterion is a way to quantify this idea by using the following algorithmic procedure: For every initial pure state formula_3, one measures the entanglement generated dynamically between the system and the environment by computing the entropy:\nor some other measure of predictability from the reduced density matrix of the system formula_5 (which is initially formula_6). \nThe entropy is a function of time and a functional of the initial state formula_7. Pointer states are obtained by minimizing formula_8 over formula_7 and demanding that the answer be robust when varying the time formula_10.\n\nThe nature of pointer states has been investigated using the predictability sieve criterion only for a limited number of examples. Apart from the already mentioned case of the measurement situation (where pointer states are simply eigenstates of the interaction Hamiltonian) the most notable example is that of a quantum Brownian particle coupled through its position with a bath of independent harmonic oscillators. In such case pointer states are localized in phase space, even though the interaction Hamiltonian involves the position of the particle. Pointer states are the result of the interplay between self-evolution and interaction with the environment and turn out to be coherent states.\n\nThere is also a quantum limit of decoherence: When the spacing between energy levels of the system is large compared to the frequencies present in the environment, energy eigenstates are einselected nearly independently of the nature of the system-environment coupling.\n\nThere has been significant work on correctly identifying the pointer states in the case of a massive particle decohered by collisions with a fluid environment, often known as \"collisional decoherence\". In particular, Busse and Hornberger have identified certain solitonic wavepackets as being unusually stable in the presence of such decoherence.\n\n"}
{"id": "15375136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15375136", "title": "Group on International Perspectives on Governmental Aggression and Peace", "text": "Group on International Perspectives on Governmental Aggression and Peace\n\nThe Group on International Perspectives on Governmental Aggression and Peace (GIPGAP) is an international multi-disciplinary team of academics and researchers. The group has been undertaking extensive research into social attitudes to peace and war, using the Personal and Institutional Rights to Aggression and Peace Scale, or PAIRTAPS. There is no shortage of critical literature on peace and war. However this is the first-ever global study of the attitudes of ordinary citizens to peace and war. GIPGAP is co-ordinated by Kathleen Malley-Morrison of Boston University, and has its origins in an earlier group that investigated domestic violence within a project entitled International Perspectives on Family Violence and Abuse. The GIPGAP project involves surveying and analysis of the views of citizens from more than 30 countries —covering North America, South America, Central America, Western Europe, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa, the Asia Pacific, South Asia, Australia, and the Pacific Islands.\n\nThe GIPGAP website indicates the membership as follows:\nThe basic research instrument, the Personal and Institutional Rights to Aggression and Peace Scale, is an online survey, utilizing aspects of both qualitative research and quantitative research. Respondents are encouraged to indicate the degree to which they agree or disagree with certain propositions and the instrument also encourages respondents to make specific comment upon issues. The survey is available to respondents in a range of language versions, including English, French, German, Greek, Icelandic, Italian, Japanese, and Portuguese.\n\nPreliminary findings for individual countries can be found in the publications list and especially the 4-volume publication in 2009 by Praeger International. In general, there was disapproval for the notion that nations should have a right to invade other nations, disapproval for the use of torture, disapproval for the killing of civilians, approval for the right to protest war, and tentative approval for the notion of a right to peace. Women were very much in support of the notion of the right of children to grow up in a world of peace. Further research, analysis and scholarly publication is planned for the future.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6415715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6415715", "title": "Group tournament ranking system", "text": "Group tournament ranking system\n\nIn a group tournament, unlike a knockout tournament, there is no scheduled decisive final match. Instead, all the competitors are ranked by examining the results of all the matches played in the tournament. Typically, points are awarded for each match, with competitors ranked based either on total number of points or average points per match. Usually each competitor finishes with an equal number of matches, in which case rankings by total points and by average points are equivalent at the end of the tournament, though not necessarily while it is in progress. Examples with unequal numbers of matches include the 1895 County Championship in English cricket, and the U.S. National Football League prior to 1972, when tie games were excluded from the winning percentage used for regular-season standings.\n\nIn two-competitor games where ties are rare or impossible, competitors are typically ranked by number of wins, with ties counting half; each competitor's listings are usually ordered wins–losses(–ties). Giving a half-point for a draw in chess was introduced in 1868 by the British Chess Association; previously, drawn games in chess tournaments were replayed. Where draws are more common, the award may be 2 points for a win and 1 for a draw, which is mathematically equivalent but avoids having half-points in the listings. These are usually ordered wins–draws–losses. If there are more than 2 competitors per match, points may be ordinal—for example, 3 for first, 2 for second, 1 for third. An extreme example of this is Formula One, where the top ten racers in each Grand Prix are given 25, 18, 15, 12, 10, 8, 6, 4, 2 and 1 respectively. \n\nSome games may have more complex ranking criteria. For example, in rugby union, bonus points may be awarded for scoring a certain number of tries in a match, usually four, or for losing by a relatively small margin, usually 7 (the value of a converted try) or less.\n\nAdditionally in many leagues, the governing body is able to penalize a competitor who has broken the league's rules (for instance by allowing an ineligible player to play) by deducting points from that competitor's total. Sometimes this deduction may be carried over to a following season, particularly if the infraction occurs during the off-season, meaning that the competitor will start the following season with a negative points total rather than zero.\n\nOfficial listings while a tournament is in progress may need to take account of competitors having played differing fractions of their schedules. Some use average points (such as the \"points percentage\" of the National Hockey League) and others total points (such as the English Premier League, although comparisons between teams typically mention where one has \"games in hand\" on the other). The games behind figure in Major League Baseball gives the same rank order as average points.\n\nIn association football, where draws are relatively common, many leagues give 3 points for a win and 1 for a draw in an attempt to encourage attacking play. Besides the traditional 2-1-0 points and newer 3-1-0 points systems for win-draw-loss, various other systems have been used to try to encourage attractive play. Some examples:\n\nSome leagues have used penalty shootouts after drawn games, in which case points will vary for regulation win — penalties win — penalties loss — regulation loss:\n\nIn FIBA (basketball)-sanctioned tournaments, where ties are impossible (a game goes into as many extra periods — or overtimes — as necessary to determine a winner), the following method is used:\nFor an example, see 2006 FIBA World Championship.\n\nIn the National Hockey League (and various other minor hockey leagues), where regular season games tied after three periods go into a five-minute sudden-death overtime period and then a shootout if needed, the following method is used:\n\n\nMost European ice hockey leagues including the KHL use an alteration to the NHL method that does not encourage regulation draws by awarding more combined points than regulation decisions. This system was also used at the 2010 Winter Olympics in the preliminary round-robin games:\n\n\nWhen competitors are level on points, there is usually some tiebreaker criterion. \n\nSometimes, however, ranking ties may stand: prior to 1994, the Five Nations Championship in rugby union could result in joint champions; likewise for the British Home Championship in association football until 1978. In college football in the United States, many conferences permit joint champions. However, if ranking within the conference determines eligibility for a postseason bowl game, tiebreak criteria will be required to separate the joint champions. Similarly, U.S. college conferences in other sports, notably basketball, use tiebreak criteria as needed to determine seeding in postseason conference tournaments.\n\nA tiebreaker may be a play-off, with extra matches between the tied competitors. This may be a full match or a reduced format such as a penalty shootout or speed chess. If there are more than two tied competitors in a 2-competitor game, the play-off may be a round-robin or knockout tournament. \n\nInstead of a playoff, the original matches may provide the tie-breaker criteria: \nSwiss system tournaments and variants thereof use a variety of tie-breaking criteria not found in other types of tournament which exploit features specific to the Swiss system: see tie-breaking in Swiss system tournaments. Chess and some Go tournaments use Swiss pairing.\n\n"}
{"id": "24206444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24206444", "title": "Horne v. Flores", "text": "Horne v. Flores\n\nHorne v. Flores, 557 U.S. 433 (2009), is a case in which the United States Supreme Court remanded the case to determine whether Arizona’s general education funding budget supports Equal Educational Opportunities Act (EEOA)-compliant English Language Learner (ELL) programming.\n\nThe case was brought in 1992 by English Language Learner (ELL) students against the state board of education and state superintendent on the grounds that the Nogales Unified School District had failed to teach the students English, which was vital to their success. The case is styled after the plaintiff, Miriam Flores, one of the parents involved in the case, and the defendant, Thomas Horne, the Arizona Superintendent of Public Instruction. \n\nIn 2000, after almost eight years of pretrial proceedings and settling of various claims, the federal district court in Arizona held that the state was violating the Equal Educational Opportunity Act because the amount of funding it allocated for the special needs of ELL students was arbitrary and not related to the actual funding needed to cover the costs of ELL instruction in the plaintiffs' school district.\n\nOn June 25, 2009, the United States Supreme Court overturned the decision of the state court, deciding in favor of Horne, and allowing the state to determine its own requirements with regards to ELL instruction. Justice Alito wrote the opinion for the 5-4 majority. The opinion held that in evaluating the actions of the state attention should focus on student outcomes rather than on spending and inputs to schools.\n\nJustice Breyer, joined by Justice Stevens, Justice Souter, and Justice Ginsburg. Justice Breyer argued that the lower courts did fairly consider every change in circumstances that the parties called to their attention, and that the majority opinion risks denying schoolchildren the English language instruction necessary to overcome language barriers that impede equal participation.\n\n"}
{"id": "20017656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20017656", "title": "Human Brain Project", "text": "Human Brain Project\n\nThe Human Brain Project (HBP) is a large ten-year scientific research project, based on exascale supercomputers, that aims to build a collaborative ICT-based scientific research infrastructure to allow researchers across Europe to advance knowledge in the fields of neuroscience, computing, and brain-related medicine. The Project, which started on 1 October 2013, is a European Commission Future and Emerging Technologies Flagship. The HBP is coordinated by the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne and is largely funded by the European Union. The project coordination office is in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nFundamental to the HBP approach is to investigate the brain on different spatial and temporal scales (i.e. from the molecular to the large networks underlying higher cognitive processes, and from milliseconds to years). To achieve this goal, the HBP relies on the collaboration of scientists from diverse disciplines, including neuroscience, philosophy and computer science, to take advantage of the loop of experimental data, modelling theories and simulations. The idea is that empirical results are used to develop theories, which then foster modelling and simulations which result in predictions that are in turn verified by empirical results.\n\nThe primary objective of the HBP is to create an ICT-based research infrastructure for brain research, cognitive neuroscience and brain-inspired computing, which can be used by researchers world-wide.\n\nThe Project is divided into 12 Subprojects. Six of these develop ICT-based platforms (Subprojects 5-10), which consist of prototype hardware, software, databases, and programming interfaces. These tools are available to researchers worldwide via the HBP Collaboratory. Three Subprojects gather data on empirical neuroscience and establish theoretical foundations (Subprojects 1-4) and one is responsible for ethics and society (Subproject 12). Subproject 11 coordinates the project.\n\n\nThe HBP is coordinated by the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne and involves researchers from over 117 partner institutions in 19 countries across Europe. Notable Partner Institutions include the University of Heidelberg, Forschungszentrum Jülich, and the University Hospital of Lausanne.\n\nThe scientific direction is provided by representatives from each of the HBP's Subprojects, which form the Science and Infrastructure Board (SIB). Katrin Amunts from Forschungszentrum Jülich is the Chair of the SIB. Alois Knoll from TU Munich is Vice Chair of the SIB for software. The Directorate steers the daily work of the HBP – it is led by Andreas Mortensen from EPFL. \n\nThe HBP is funded by the European Commission Directorate General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology (DG CONNECT) under the Horizon 2020 framework, an EU Research and Innovation funding programme. It was one of the two initial Future Emerging Technologies (FET) Flagship projects.\n\nThe project is split into five phases, each supplied with separate funding. The call for funding for the Project's initial two-and-a-half-year 'Ramp-Up Phase' of EUR 54 million closed in November 2013 and the results were announced in March 2014. Twenty-two projects from thirty-two organisations were selected for the initial funding of EUR 8.3 million. The Ramp-Up Phase ended on 31 March 2016. Funding is reassessed every two years using Specific Grant Agreements (SGA); the first of which began in April 2016 (ending in April 2018), and the second with a total EU funding of 88 Million Euro starting in April 2018 (ending in March 2020). The HBP's total costs are estimated at EUR 1.019 billion, of which EUR 500 million will be provided by the European Commission, EUR 500 million by national, public and private organisations, and EUR 19 million by the Core Project Ramp-Up Phase Partners.\n\nOne of the Project's primary hurdles is the unsystematic nature of the information collected from previous brain research. Neurological research data varies by biological organisation schemes, species studied, and by developmental stages, making it difficult to collectively use the data to replicate the brain in a model that acts as a single system.\n\nOther obstacles include engineering problems involving power consumption, memory, and storage. For example, detailed neuron representations are very computationally expensive, and whole brain simulation is at the leading edge of our computational capability.\n\nTechnologies generated by the HBP and other similar projects offer several possibilities to other fields of research. For instance, a brain model can be used to investigate signatures of disease in the brain and the impact of certain drugs, enabling the development of better diagnosis and treatment methods. Ultimately, these technologies will likely lead to more advanced medical options available to patients at a lower cost.\n\nIn addition, detailed brain simulation requires significant computing power, leading to developments in supercomputing and energy-efficient, brain-inspired computing techniques. Computational developments can be extended into areas such as data mining, telecommunications, appliances, and other industrial uses.\n\nThe long-term ethical consequences of the Project are also considered. The Project follows a policy of Responsible Research and Innovation, and its Ethics Advisory Board is responsible for monitoring the use of human volunteers, animal subjects, and the data collected. Implications on European society, industry, and economy are investigated by the HBP Ethics and Society Programme's Foresight Lab.\n\nAn open letter was sent on 7 July 2014 to the European Commission by 154 European researchers (750 signatures as of 3 September 2014) complaining of the HBP's overly narrow approach, and threatening to boycott the Project. Central to this controversy was an internal dispute about funding for cognitive scientists who study high level brain functions, such as thought and behaviour. However, the HBP stated that there is “no question that cognition and behaviour are vital to the HBP”, explaining that cognitive neuroscience research was repositioned in the Project to allow the Core Project to focus on building the Platforms. In addition, The Open Letter called on the EC to “reallocate the funding currently allocated to the HBP core and partnering projects to broad neuroscience-directed funding to meet the original goals of the HBP—understanding brain function and its effect on society”. In its response, the HBP said that “while [neuroscience research] generates a vast amount of valuable data, there is currently no technology for sharing, organising, analysing or integrating this information, beyond papers and even databases. The HBP will provide the critical missing layer to move towards a multi-level reconstruction and simulation of the brain”. It added that “cognitive and behavioural neuroscience will become the most significant component of neuroscience in HBP over the course of the Project. However, for this to happen the Platforms have to be in place first”.\n\nPeter Dayan, director of computational neuroscience at University College London, argued that the goal of a large-scale simulation of the brain is radically premature, and Geoffrey Hinton said that \"[t]he real problem with that project is they have no clue how to get a large system like that to learn\". Similar concerns as to the project's methodology were raised by Robert Epstein.\n\nThe HBP has said that its members share the uncertainty surrounding large-scale simulation, but that “reconstructing and simulating the human brain is a vision, a target; the benefits will come from the technology needed to get there. That technology, developed by the HBP, will benefit all of neuroscience as well as related fields”.\n\nIn 2015 the project underwent a review process and the three-member executive committee, led by Markram, was dissolved and replaced by a 22-member governing board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5294903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5294903", "title": "Insult comedy", "text": "Insult comedy\n\nInsult comedy is a comedy genre in which the act consists mainly of offensive insults directed at the performer's audience or other performers.\n\nTypical targets for insult include individuals in the show's audience, the town hosting the performance, or the subject of a roast. An insult comedian often maintains a competitive and interactive relationship with his or her audience. The style has been described as \"festive abuse\".\n\nThe style can be distinguished from an act based on satire, or political humor. Insult comedy is often used to deflect or silence hecklers even when the rest of the show is not focused around it.\n\n"}
{"id": "92751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92751", "title": "Inua", "text": "Inua\n\nIn Inuit mythology, an inua (ᐃᓄᐊ; plural inuat ᐃᓄᐊᑦ, literally \"possessor\" or \"master\") is a spirit or soul that exists in all people, animals, lakes, mountains, and plants. They were sometimes personified in mythology. The concept is similar to mana. For arctic people, human and animals are equal - All life has the same kind of soul or \"life essence\" (inua). This creates a predicament that, in order to survive people must kill other creatures that are like them. Recognition of this dilemma lies at the centre of hunting practice, which is based upon respect and reciprocity. The hunter will only succeed if the animal chooses to give its life as a gift in return for moral and respectful behaviour on the part of the whole community. For example, after a seal has been killed fresh water is poured into its mouth so that its soul will not be thirsty and it will tell the other seals of the respect shown to it.\n\nAmong the Yu'pik near Kuskokwim Bay of Coastal Alaska, the word yua (absolutive case form of the word \"yuk\" \"human; human-like spirit\") has similar connotations as that of the Iñupiaq of Northern Alaska, who similar to the Inuit call it \"iñua\" or \"inua\". For both the Yu'piak and Iñupiaq, the meaning is closest to an understanding of a world in which \"Most Arctic peoples believe all the world is animate, and that animals have souls or spirits\", (Berlo and Phillips 161) a foundational belief of the continuum and inter-connectivity of all life and spirit of all that which is, that which has been, and that which is yet to be.\n\n"}
{"id": "233184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233184", "title": "Julius von Sachs", "text": "Julius von Sachs\n\nJulius von Sachs (; 2 October 1832 – 29 May 1897) was a German botanist from Breslau, Prussian Silesia. He is a monumental figure in the history of botany.\n\nSachs was born at Breslau on 2 October 1832. His father, Graveur Sachs, was an engraver by trade, and father taught son delineation and accuracy of line and color. From earliest boyhood Julius was fascinated with plants, making collections of them on many field excursions with his father. He gave much of his time between the ages of thirteen and sixteen to drawing and painting the flowers, fungi, and other specimens which he collected. At the Gymnasium from 1845 to 1850 he was most interested in the natural sciences, collecting skulls, writing a monograph on the crayfish. His natural science teacher, one Krober, showed a singular lack of foresight when he solemnly warned young Sachs against devoting himself to the natural sciences.\n\nWhen he was but sixteen years old, his father died, and in the next year both his mother and a brother died of the cholera. Suddenly without financial support, he was fortunate to be taken into the family of Jan Evangelista Purkyně who had accepted a professorship at the University of Prague. Sachs was admitted to the university in 1851.\n\nSachs famously labored long hours in the laboratory for Purkyně, and then long hours for himself each day after his work in the laboratory was finished. After the lab, he could devote himself entirely to establishing how plants grow.\n\nIn 1856 Sachs graduated as doctor of philosophy, and then adopted a botanical career, establishing himself as \"Privatdozent\" for plant physiology. In 1859 he was appointed physiological assistant to the Agricultural Academy of Tharandt (now part of the Technical University of Dresden) at Julius Adolph Stöckhardt; and in 1862 he was called to be director of the Polytechnic at Chemnitz, but was almost immediately transferred to the Agricultural Academy at Poppelsdorf (now part of the University of Bonn), where he remained until 1867, when he was nominated professor of botany in the University of Freiburg.\n\nIn 1868 he accepted the chair of botany in the University of Würzburg, which he continued to occupy (in spite of calls from more prestigious German universities) until his death.\n\nSachs achieved distinction as an investigator, a writer and a teacher; his name will ever be especially associated with the great development of plant physiology which marked the latter half of the 19th century, though there is scarcely a branch of botany to which he did not materially contribute. His earlier papers, scattered through the volumes of botanical journals and of the publications of learned societies (a collected edition was published in 1892-93), are of great and varied interest. Prominent among them is the series of \"Keimungsgeschichten,\" which laid the foundation of our knowledge of microchemical methods, as also of the morphological and physiological details of germination.\nThen there is his resuscitation of the method of \"water-culture,\" and the application of it to the investigation of the problems of nutrition.\n\nMost important are his experiments, developing the concept of photosynthesis, that the starch-grains, found in leaf chloroplasts, depend on sunlight. A leaf that has been in sunlight, then bleached white and stained with iodine turns black, proving its starch content, whereas a leaf from the same plant that has been out of the sun will remain white. A demonstration of this experiment is shown in the second episode of BBC Four's \"Botany: A Blooming History\" presented by Timothy Walker.\n\nSachs's later papers were almost exclusively published in the three volumes of the \"Arbeiten des botanischen Instituts in Würzburg\" (1871–88). Among these are his investigation of the periodicity of growth in length, in connection with which he devised the self-registering auxanometer, by which he established the retarding influence of the highly refrangible rays of the spectrum on the rate of growth; his researches on heliotropism and geotropism, in which he introduced the clinostat; his work on the structure and the arrangement of cells in growing-points; the elaborate experimental evidence upon which he based his \"imbibition-theory\" of the transpiration-current; his exhaustive study of the assimilatory activity of the green leaf; and other papers of interest.\n\nSachs' first published volume was the \"Handbuch der Experimentalphysiologie des Pflanzen\" (1865; French edition, 1868), which gives an admirable account of the state of knowledge in certain departments of the subject, and includes a great deal of original information. This was followed in 1868 by the first edition of his famous \"Lehrbuch der Botanik\", by far the best book of its kind. It is a comprehensive work, giving an able summary of the botanical science of the period, enriched with the results of many original investigations. The third edition was translated into French by Philippe Édouard Léon Van Tieghem in 1873, and into English by Alfred Bennett in 1875, and published by Oxford University Press. The fourth and last German edition was published in 1874, and also issued by Oxford in 1882.\n\nThe \"Lehrbuch\" was eventually superseded by the \"Vorlesungen uber Pflanzenphysiologie\" (1st ed., 1882; 2nd ed., 1887; Eng. ed., Oxford, 1887), a work more limited in scope, but yet covering more ground than its title would imply; though it is a remarkable book, it has not gained the general recognition accorded to the \"Lehrbuch\". Finally, there is the \"Geschichte der Botanik\" (1875); a brilliant and learned account of the development of the various branches of botanical science from the middle of the 16th century up to 1860, of which an English edition was published in 1890 by the Oxford Press. As a teacher Sachs exerted great influence, for his vigorous personality and his ready and lucid utterance enabled him not only to instruct, but to fire his students with something of his own enthusiasm.\n\nA full account of Sachs' life and work was given by Professor Goebel, formerly his assistant, in \"Flora\" (1897), of which an English translation appeared in \"Science Progress\" for 1898. There is also an obituary notice of him in the \"Proc. Roy. Soc.\" vol. lxii.\n\nIn 1885 he became foreign member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nSachs has been described as a \"post-Darwinian botanist\" who \"integrated the evolutionary theory into his morphological writings.\" He was originally supportive of Darwinism but in his late career became bitterly opposed to it, instead preferring non-Darwinian evolution.\n\nMany pupils of Sachs like Julius Oscar Brefeld, Francis Darwin, Karl Ritter von Goebel, Georg Albrecht Klebs, Spiridon Miliarakis, Hermann Müller-Thurgau, Fritz Noll, Wilhelm Pfeffer, Karl Prantl, Christian Ernst Stahl and Hugo de Vries became later famous botanists.\n\nThe standard botanical author abbreviation Sachs is applied to species he described.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3658404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3658404", "title": "Kangling", "text": "Kangling\n\nKangling (), literally translated as \"leg\" (\"kang\") \"flute\" (\"ling\"), is the Tibetan name for a trumpet or horn made out of a human femur, used in Tibetan Buddhism for various chöd rituals as well as funerals performed by a chöpa. The femur of a criminal or a person who died a violent death is preferred. Alternatively, the femur of a respected teacher may be used. The kangling may also be made out of wood.\n\nThe kangling should only be used in chöd rituals performed outdoors with the chöd damaru and bell. In Tantric chöd practice, the practitioner, motivated by compassion, plays the kangling as a gesture of fearlessness, to summon hungry spirits and demons so that she or he may satisfy their hunger and thereby relieve their sufferings. It is also played as a way of \"cutting off of the ego.\"\n\nA minor figure from Katok Monastery, the First Chonyi Gyatso, Chopa Lugu (17th - mid-18th century), is remembered for his \"nightly bellowing of bone-trumpet [kangling] and shouting of phet\" on pilgrimage, much to the irritation of the business traveler who accompanied him. Chopa Lugu became renowned as \"The Chod Yogi Who Split a Cliff in China (rgya nag brag bcad gcod pa).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "298565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298565", "title": "Legal immunity", "text": "Legal immunity\n\nLegal immunity, or immunity from prosecution, is a legal status wherein an individual or entity cannot be held liable for a violation of the law, in order to facilitate societal aims that outweigh the value of imposing liability in such cases. Such legal immunity may be from criminal prosecution, or from civil liability (being subject of lawsuit), or both. The most notable forms of legal immunity are diplomatic immunity, judicial immunity, and witness immunity. One author has described legal immunity as \"the obverse of a legal power:\"\n\nLegal immunities may be subject to criticism because they institute a separate standard of conduct for those who receive them. For example, as one author notes:\n\nMany forms of immunity are granted to government officials to enable them to carry out their functions without fear of being sued or charged with a crime for so doing: \n\nGrants of immunity are particularly important in intergovernmental relations, where traditions have arisen to prevent the diplomatic representatives of a country from being harassed by their host countries.\n\nSuch immunities may be granted by law (statutory or constitutional) or by treaty.\n\n\nSuch immunities may be granted by law or, for witness immunity, by prosecutors or other authorities on a case by case basis, commonly as an agreement with the witnesses.\n"}
{"id": "25762715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25762715", "title": "List of ornithologists abbreviated names", "text": "List of ornithologists abbreviated names\n\nThis list of ornithologists abbreviated names is based on information from the older books on birds. In particular, the books by George Robert Gray and Richard Bowdler Sharpe. When reading these older books, abbreviated names are used that sometimes make little or no sense. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "209811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209811", "title": "Looting", "text": "Looting\n\nLooting, also referred to as sacking, ransacking, plundering, despoiling, despoliation, and pillaging, is the indiscriminate taking of goods by force as part of a military or political victory, or during a catastrophe, such as war, natural disaster (where law and civil enforcement are temporarily ineffective), or rioting. The term is also used in a broader sense to describe egregious instances of theft and embezzlement, such as the \"plundering\" of private or public assets by governments. \n\nThe proceeds of all these activities can be described as booty, loot, plunder, spoils, or pillage.\nIn armed conflict, pillage is prohibited by international law, and constitutes a war crime.\n\nLooting by a victorious army during war has been common practice throughout recorded history. For foot soldiers, it was viewed as a way to supplement their often meagre income and was part of the celebration of victory. On higher levels, the proud exhibition of loot was an integral part of the typical Roman triumph, and Genghis Khan was not unusual in proclaiming that the greatest happiness was \"to vanquish your enemies ... to rob them of their wealth\".\n\nIn warfare in ancient times, the spoils of war included the defeated populations, which were often enslaved. The women and children were often absorbed into the victorious country's population. In other pre-modern societies, objects made of precious metals were the preferred target of war looting, largely because of their easy portability. In many cases looting was an opportunity to obtain treasures that otherwise would not have been obtainable. Since the 18th century, works of art have increasingly become a popular target. In the 1930s and even more so during World War II, Nazi Germany engaged in large scale and organized looting of art and property.\n\nLooting, combined with poor military discipline, has occasionally been an army's downfall. In other cases, for example the Wahhabi sack of Karbala, loot has financed further victories. Not all looters in wartime are conquerors; the looting of Vistula Land by its retreating defenders in 1915 was among the factors sapping the loyalty of Poland in World War I. Local civilians can also take advantage of a breakdown of order to loot public and private property, such as took place at the National Museum of Iraq in the course of the Iraq War in 2003. Tolstoy's novel \"War and Peace\" describes widespread looting by Moscow's citizens before Napoleon's troops enter the city, and by French troops elsewhere.\n\nIn armed conflict, pillage is prohibited by both customary international law and by treaty. The prohibition against pillage was recognized in the Lieber Code, Brussels Declaration (1874), and Oxford Manual. The Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 (modified in 1954) obliges military forces not only to avoid destruction of enemy property, but to provide protection to it. Article 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court provides that in international warfare, the \"pillaging a town or place, even when taken by assault,\" is a war crime. In the aftermath of World War II, a number of war criminals were prosecuted for pillage. Several people have been prosecuted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia for pillage.\n\nThe Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949 explicitly prohibits the looting of civilian property during wartime. \n\nTheoretically, to prevent such looting, unclaimed property is moved to the custody of the Custodian of Enemy Property, to be handled until being returned to its owner.\n\nThe term \"looting\" is also sometimes used to refer to antiquities being removed from countries by unauthorized people, either domestic people breaking the law seeking monetary gain, or by foreign nations, which are usually more interested in prestige or previously, \"scientific discovery\". An example of this might be the removal of the contents of Egyptian tombs which were transported to museums in Europe. Other examples include the obelisks of Pharaoh Amenhotep II, in the (Oriental Museum, University of Durham, United Kingdom), Pharaoh Ptolemy IX, (Philae Obelisk, in Wimborne, Dorset, United Kingdom). Whether this constitutes \"looting\" is a debated point, with other parties pointing out that the Europeans were usually given permission of some sort, and that many of the treasures wouldn't have been discovered at all if the Europeans hadn't funded and organized the expeditions or digs that located them. Many of these antiquities have already been returned to their country of origin voluntarily.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Second World War, Soviet forces systematically plundered the Soviet occupation zone of Germany, including the Recovered Territories which were to be transferred to Poland. They sent valuable industrial equipment, infrastructure and whole factories to the Soviet Union.\n\nDuring a disaster, police and military are sometimes unable to prevent looting when they are overwhelmed by humanitarian or combat concerns, or cannot be summoned due to damaged communications infrastructure. Especially during natural disasters, some people find themselves forced to take what is not theirs in order to survive. How to respond to this, and where the line between unnecessary \"looting\" and necessary \"scavenging\" lies, is often a dilemma for governments. In other cases, looting may be tolerated or even encouraged by governments for political or other reasons.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "889104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=889104", "title": "Massurrealism", "text": "Massurrealism\n\nMassurrealism is a portmanteau word coined in 1992 by American artist James Seehafer, who described a trend among some postmodern artists that mix the aesthetic styles and themes of surrealism and mass media—including pop art.\n\nMassurrealism is a development of surrealism that emphasizes the effect of technology and mass media on contemporary surrealist imagery. James Seehafer who is credited with coining the term in 1992 said that he was prompted to do so because there was no extant definition to accurately characterize the type of work he was doing, which combined elements of surrealism and mass media, the latter consisting of technology and pop art—\"a form of technology art.\" He had begun his work by using a shopping cart, which \"represented American mass-consumerism that fuels mass-media\", and then incorporated collages of colour photocopies and spray paint with the artist's traditional medium of oil paint.\n\nIn 1995, he assembled a small group show near New York City and found a local cyber-cafe, where he started to post material about massurrealism on internet arts news groups, inspiring some German art students to stage a massurrealist show. The next year he started his own web site, www.massurrealism.com and began to receive work from other artists, both mixed media and digitally-generated. He credits the World Wide Web with a major role in communicating massurrealism, which spread interest from artists in Los Angeles, Mexico and then Europe. Seehafer has said:\n\nThe differentiating factor, according to Seehafer, between surrealism and massurrealism is the foundation of the former in the early 20th century in Europe before the spread of electronic mass media. It is difficult to define the visual style of massurrealism, though a general characteristic is the use of modern technology to fuse surrealism's traditional access to the unconscious with pop art's ironic contradictions.\n\nIn 2005, graffiti artist Banksy illicitly hung a rock in the British Museum showing a caveman pushing a shopping cart, which Shelley Esaak of about.com described as \"a nice tribute to James Seehafer and Massurrealism.\"\n\nBritish artist Alan King started to experiment with a combination of digital and traditional art methods in the 1990s, producing a majority of his works by using computer techniques combined with a multitude of traditional methods including oils, acrylic, and watercolour.\n\nNationally renowned photographer Chip Simons incorporates both his photo images with digital collage.\nCecil Touchon, who works with sound collage & poetry, is a massurrealist artist.\n\nGerman artist Melanie Marie Kreuzhof, who describes her work as massurrealistic, was commissioned in 2004 by the editor of the \"Spectakel Salzburger Festsiele Inside\" magazine to produce an artwork about Erich Wolfgang Korngold's opera Die tote Stadt at the Salzburg Festival. To make her work she took 9 digital photographs, composed them in a computer and printed the result directly onto canvas, which was then attached to a wooden frame, worked on with acrylic paint and had objects attached—3 guitar strings, a strand of hair and a silk scarf. The images and elements were derived from themes in the opera.\n\nMetaphysical art\n\n\n"}
{"id": "210661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210661", "title": "Media manipulation", "text": "Media manipulation\n\nMedia manipulation is a series of related techniques in which partisans create an image or argument that favours their particular interests. Such tactics may include the use of logical fallacies, psychological manipulations, outright deception, rhetorical and propaganda techniques, and often involve the suppression of information or points of view by crowding them out, by inducing other people or groups of people to stop listening to certain arguments, or by simply diverting attention elsewhere. In \"\", Jacques Ellul writes that public opinion can only express itself through channels which are provided by the mass media of communication – without which there could be no propaganda.\nIt is used within public relations, propaganda, marketing, etc. While the objective for each context is quite different, the broad techniques are often similar.\n\nAs illustrated below, many of the more modern mass media manipulation methods are types of distraction, on the assumption that the public has a limited attention span.\n\nActivism is the practice or doctrine that has an emphasis on direct vigorous action especially supporting or opposing one side of a controversial matter. It is quite simply starting a movement to effect or change social views. It is frequently started by influential individuals but is done collectively through social movements with large masses. These social movements can be done through public rallies, strikes, street marches and even rants on social media.\n\nA large social movement that has changed public opinion through time would be the 'Civil Rights March on Washington', where Martin Luther King Jr. performed his 'I Have a Dream' speech attempting to change social views on Non-White Americans in the United States of Americ, 28 August 1963. Most of King's movements were done through non-violent rallies and public speeches to show the white American population that they were peaceful but also wanted change in their community. In 1964, the 'Civil Rights Acts' commenced giving Non-White Americans equality with all races.\n\nAdvertising is the action of attracting public attention to something, especially through paid announcements for products and services. This tends to be done by businesses who wish to sell their product by paying media outlets to show their products or services on television breaks, banners on websites and mobile applications.\n\nThese advertisements are not only done by businesses but can also be done by certain groups. Non-commercial advertisers are those who spend money on advertising in a hope to raise awareness for a cause or promote specific ideas. These include groups such as interest groups, political parties, government organizations and religious movements. Most of these organizations intend to spread a message or sway public opinion instead of trying to sell products or services. Advertising can not only be found on social media, it is also evident on billboards, newspapers, magazines and even word of mouth.\n\nA hoax is something intended to deceive or defraud. When a newspaper or the news reports a fake story, it is known as a hoax. Misleading public stunts, scientific frauds, false bomb threats and business scams as hoaxes. A common aspect that hoaxes have is that they are all meant to deceive or lie. For something to become a hoax, the lie must have something more to offer. It must be outrageous, dramatic but also has to be believable and ingenious. Above all, it must be able to attract attention from the public. Once it has done that then a hoax is in full effect.\n\nThe word hoax became popular in the middle to late eighteenth century. It is thought to have come from the saying 'hocus pocus'. Hocus pocus means meaningless talk which is typically designed to trick others or conceal the truth about a situation. It is thought to be derived from a conjuror in the time of King James who called himself 'The Kings Majesties most excellent Hocus Pocus', where he would perform a trick and call out a phrase beginning with \"hocus pocus\".\n\nThe key word in something becoming a hoax is \"public\". A lie or a deception only becomes a hoax when it is acknowledged by the public. A popular hoax that is evident in today's times would be the 'Microwave your spoon' hoax. This hoax originated from a video which shows a metallic spoon being heated inside a microwave oven. It then further on suggests that it is easier to eat ice cream when the spoon is first microwaved. This hoax has fooled many people on social media into believing that the spoon could be microwaved, only to find that their microwave was damaged. The point of this hoax was to show how gullible people can be on social media and to prove that not everything you read or see on the internet is true.\n\nAn example of a hoax was a fake viral video is one that happened in 2012. Greenpeace paid to have a video made by Yes Men and that Occupy Seattle posted on their website. The video then took off and a lot of companies and people shared it. The video was of a drink fountain that looked like an oil platform at a party for Shell malfunctioning, and getting all over the party. The video then shows the a man telling the person holding the phone camera to stop filming while they are rushed out the door. There were also fake legal messages sent out to make it look like Shell was threatening the people reporting the story. It was very widespread and believed by many. \n\nPropagandising is a form of communication that is aimed at influencing the attitude of a community toward some cause or position by presenting only one side of an argument. Propaganda is commonly created by governments, but some forms of mass communication created by other powerful organisations can be considered propaganda as well. As opposed to impartially providing information, propaganda, in its most basic sense, presents information primarily to influence an audience. Propaganda is usually repeated and dispersed over a wide variety of media in order to create the chosen result in audience attitudes. While the term propaganda has justifiably acquired a strongly negative connotation by association with its most manipulative and jingoistic examples (e.g. Nazi propaganda used to justify the Holocaust), propaganda in its original sense was neutral, and could refer to uses that were generally benign or innocuous, such as public health recommendations, signs encouraging citizens to participate in a census or election, or messages encouraging persons to report crimes to the police, among others.\n\nPropaganda uses societal norms and myths that people hear and believe. Because people respond to, understand and remember more simple ideas this is what is used to influence people's beliefs, attitudes and values.\n\nPsychological warfare is sometimes considered synonymous with propaganda. The principal distinction being that propaganda normally occurs within a nation, whereas psychological warfare normally takes place between nations, often during war or cold war. Various techniques are used to influence a target's values, beliefs, emotions, motives, reasoning, or behavior. Target audiences can be governments, organizations, groups, and individuals.\n\nThis tactic has been used in multiple wars throughout history. During World War II, the western Allies, expect for the Soviet Union would drop leaflets on the US and England. During the conflict with Iraq, American and England dropped leaflets on them, many of the leaflets telling the people how to surrender. In the Korean War both sides would use loud speakers from the front lines. In 2009 people in Israel in the Gaza war received text messages on their cell phones threatening them with rocket attacks. The Palestinian people were getting phone calls and leaflets warning them that they were going to drop rockets on them. These phone calls and leaflets were not always accurate.\n\nPublic relations (PR) is the management of the flow of information between an individual or an organization and the public. Public relations may include an organization or individual gaining exposure to their audiences using topics of public interest and news items that do not require direct payment. PR is generally created by specialised individuals or firms at the behest of already public individuals or organizations, as a way of managing their public profile.\n\nAstroturfing is when there is an intent and attempt to create the illusion of support for a particular cause, person, or stance. While this is mainly connected to and seen on the internet, it has also happened in newspapers during times of political elections. Corporations and political parties try to imitate grassroots movements in order to sway the public to believing something that isn't true.\n\nClickbait refers to headlines of online news articles that are sensationalized or sometimes completely fake. It uses people's natural curiosity to get people to click. In some cases clickbait is simply used to generate income, more clicks means more money made with advertisers. But these headlines and articles can also be used to influence a group of people on social media. They are constructed to appeal to the interest group's pre-existing biases and thus to be shared within filter bubbles.\n\nIn search engine marketing websites use market research, from past searches and other sources, to increase their visibility in search engine results pages. This allows them to guide search results along the lines they desire, and thereby influence searchers.\n\nBusiness have many tactics to lure customers into their websites and to generate revenue such as banner ads, search engine optimization and pay-per-click marketing tools. They all serve a different purpose and use different tools that appeal to multiple types of users. Banner ads appear on sites that then redirect to other sites that are similar. Search engine optimization is changing a page to seem more reliable or applicable than other similar pages. Pay-per-click involves certain words being highlighted because they were bought by advertisers to then redirect to a page containing information or selling whatever that word pertained to. By using the internet, users are susceptible to these type of advertisements without a clear advertising campaign being viewed.\n\nCommonly known as \"smoke screen\", this technique consists of making the public focus its attention on a topic that is more convenient for the propagandist. This particular type of media manipulation has been referenced many times in popular culture. Some examples are:\n\nPoliticians distract the public by showing them \"shiny object\" issues through the use of TV and other media. Sometimes they can be as simple as a politician with a reality show, like Sarah Palin had for a short time back in 2009, which aired on TLC.\nThis a mere variation of the traditional arguments known, in logic, as ad hominem and ad populum but applied to countries instead of individuals. This technique consists on refuting arguments by appealing to nationalism or by inspiring fear and hate towards a foreign country or to all the foreigners. It has the potential of being important since it gives the propagandists the power to discredit any information coming from other countries. \n\nSome examples are: \n\nQ: \"What do you think about Khokara's politic on X matter?\" A: \"I think they've been wrong about everything for the last 20 years or so...\" \n\nQ: \"Your idea is quite similar to the one proposed in Falala.\" A: \"Are you suggesting Falala is a better country than ours?\"\n\nAn informal fallacy. The \"straw man\" consists on appearing to refute the opponent's argument while actually attacking another topic. For it to work properly the topic that was actually refuted and the one that should have been refuted need to be similar.\n\nThis is a combination of the straw man fallacy and the ad hominem argument. It is often used to incriminate someone in order to argument the innocence of someone else. \n\nThis is a very important tactic for governments and politicians, and it even made its way to the famous book \"The 48 Laws of Power\" by Robert Greene, in the Law #26 titled: \"Keep you hands clean\".\n\nVisual media can be transformed through photo manipulation, commonly called \"photoshopping.\" This can make a product, person, or idea seem more appealing. This is done by highlighting certain features on the product and using certain editing tools to enlarge the photo, to attract and persuade the public.\n\nA compliance professional is an expert that utilizes and perfects means of gaining media influence. Though the means of gaining influence are common, their aims vary from political, economic, to personal. Thus the label of compliance professional applies to diverse groups of people, including propagandists, marketers, pollsters, salespeople and political advocates.\n\nMeans of influence include, but are not limited to, the methods outlined in \"\":\nAdditionally, techniques like framing and less formal means of effective obfuscation, such as the use of logical fallacies, are used to gain compliance.\n\nRelated topics\n\nNotable compliance experts\n\nNotable media manipulation theorists\n\n"}
{"id": "37234316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37234316", "title": "Moral conversion", "text": "Moral conversion\n\nIn philosophy, moral conversion is an existential change in the person, who is perceived as the moral agent adopting new moral standards (or mores) in a process of internal transformation. Moral conversion is a relatively rare event in a person's normal development. It involves a decision that is both conscious and existentialist (i.e. based on critical questioning). Moral conversion is based on the internalist view of morality.\n\nThe process of moral conversion was described by Lawrence Kohlberg of the University of Chicago, who developed the so-called Lawrence Kohlberg's stages of moral development. Six classes of moral conversion were identified, based on progressively higher and higher levels of moral reasoning, beginning with the \"preconventional\" level of a child, and concluding with the \"postconventional\" (or autonomous) level of an adult aware of ethical principles guiding universally moral behaviour.\n\nNotably, the notion of moral conversion has been distinguished from the theory of moral development \"per se\", by Walter E. Conn (of Villanova University) and John C. Gibbs (of the Ohio State University). Moral conversion, according to Conn and Gibbs, involves critical questioning and therefore differs from any spontaneous moral development (Kohlberg). It results in the setting forth of the \"self-chosen values\" (Conn), which bring the existential dimension to the transforming process.\n\nAlfredo J. Mac Laughlin of St. Ambrose University defines moral conversion by the frequent occurrence of the \" conversions\" resulting from the presence of free will, which differ from the natural/spontaneous development taking place in incremental stages (Kohlberg). The most significant aspect of moral conversion is the withdrawal from the moral convictions of the past, which is based on \"critical self-appropriation\" or the \"critical\" discovery of oneself. It depends on the sense of authenticity beyond the possibility of predictions.\n\nBernard Lonergan explains that moral conversion is not moral perfection. It is the \"withdrawal from self-enclosure\" or the shift from personal satisfaction criterion to values that transcend oneself (or one's own group interests). Moral conversion, according to Lonergan, is one of three different types of conversion along with the \"intellectual\" and the \"religious\" conversion. From a causal point of view, it is the difference between varying levels of consciousness leading to a higher sense of responsibility for the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42976779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42976779", "title": "NKVD", "text": "NKVD\n\nThe People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs (, \"Narodnyy Komissariat Vnutrennikh Del\"), abbreviated NKVD ( ), was the interior ministry of the Soviet Union.\n\nEstablished in 1917 as NKVD of Russian SFSR, the agency was originally tasked with conducting regular police work and overseeing the country's prisons and labor camps. It was disbanded in 1930, with its functions being dispersed among other agencies, only to be reinstated as an all-union ministry in 1934.\n\nThe functions of the OGPU (the secret police organization) were transferred to the NKVD in 1934, giving it a monopoly over law enforcement activities that lasted until the end of World War II. During this period, the NKVD included both ordinary public order activities, as well as secret police activities. The NKVD is known for its role in political repression and for carrying out the Great Purge under Joseph Stalin. Mobile gas vans were used to execute people without trial during the Great Purge. It was led by Genrikh Yagoda, Nikolai Yezhov and Lavrentiy Beria.\n\nThe NKVD undertook mass extrajudicial executions of untold numbers of citizens, and conceived, populated and administered the Gulag system of forced labour camps. Their agents were responsible for the repression of the wealthier peasantry, as well as the mass deportations of entire nationalities to uninhabited regions of the country. They oversaw the protection of Soviet borders and espionage (which included political assassinations), and enforced Soviet policy in communist movements and puppet governments in other countries, most notably the repression and massacres in Poland.\n\nIn March 1946 all People's Commissariats were renamed to Ministries, and the NKVD became the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD).\n\nAfter the Russian February Revolution of 1917, the Provisional Government dissolved the Tsarist police and set up the \"People's Militsiya\". The subsequent Russian October Revolution of 1917 saw a seizure of state power led by Lenin and the Bolsheviks, who established a new Bolshevik regime, the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR). The Provisional Government's Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD), formerly under Georgy Lvov (from March 1917) and then under Nikolai Avksentiev (from ) and Alexei Nikitin (from ), turned into NKVD (People's Commissariat of Internal Affairs) under a People's Commissar. However, the NKVD apparatus was overwhelmed by duties inherited from MVD, such as the supervision of the local governments and firefighting, and the \"Workers' and Peasants' Militsiya\" staffed by proletarians was largely inexperienced and unqualified. Realizing that it was left with no capable security force, the Council of People's Commissars of the RSFSR established () a secret political police, the \"Cheka\", led by Felix Dzerzhinsky. It gained the right to undertake quick non-judicial trials and executions, if that was deemed necessary in order to \"protect the Russian Socialist-Communist revolution\".\n\nThe \"Cheka\" was reorganized in 1922 as the State Political Directorate, or GPU, of the NKVD of the RSFSR. In 1922 the USSR formed, with the RSFSR as its largest member. The GPU became the OGPU (Joint State Political Directorate), under the Council of People's Commissars of the USSR. The NKVD of the RSFSR retained control of the \"militsiya\", and various other responsibilities.\n\nIn 1934 the NKVD of the RSFSR was transformed into an all-union security force, the NKVD (which the Communist Party of the Soviet Union leaders soon came to call \"the leading detachment of our party\"), and the OGPU was incorporated into the NKVD as the Main Directorate for State Security (GUGB); the separate NKVD of the RSFSR was not resurrected until 1946 (as the MVD of the RSFSR). As a result, the NKVD also took over control of all detention facilities (including the forced labor camps, known as the GULag) as well as the regular police. At various times, the NKVD had the following Chief Directorates, abbreviated as \"ГУ\"– , .\n\nUntil the reorganization begun by Nikolai Yezhov with a purge of the regional political police in the autumn of 1936 and formalized by a May 1939 directive of the All-Union NKVD by which all appointments to the local political police were controlled from the center, there was frequent tension between centralized control of local units and the collusion of those units with local and regional party elements, frequently resulting in the thwarting of Moscow's plans.\n\nFollowing its establishment in 1934, the NKVD underwent many organizational changes; between 1938 and 1939 alone, the NKVD's structure and leadership changed three times.\n\nDuring Yezhov's time in office, the Great Purge reached its height from the years 1937 and 1938 alone, at least 1.3 million were arrested and 681,692 were executed for 'crimes against the state'. The Gulag population swelled by 685,201 under Yezhov, nearly tripling in size in just two years, with at least 140,000 of these prisoners (and likely many more) dying of malnutrition, exhaustion and the elements in the camps (or during transport to them).\n\nOn 3 February 1941, the 4th Department (Special Section, OO) of GUGB NKVD security service responsible for the Soviet Armed Forces military counter-intelligence, consisting of 12 Sections and one Investigation Unit, was separated from GUGB NKVD USSR.<br> The official liquidation of OO GUGB within NKVD was announced on 12 February by a joint order № 00151/003 of NKVD and NKGB USSR. The rest of GUGB was abolished and staff was moved to newly created People's Commissariat for State Security (NKGB). Departments of former GUGB were renamed Directorates. For example, foreign intelligence unit known as Foreign Department (shortcut- INO) became Foreign Directorate (INU); GUGB political police unit represented by Secret Political Department (SPO) became Secret Political Directorate (SPU), and so on. The former GUGB 4th Department (OO) was split into three sections. One section, which handled military counter-intelligence in NKVD troops (former 11th Section of GUGB 4th Department OO) become 3rd NKVD Department or OKR (Otdel KontrRazvedki), the chief of OKR NKVD was Aleksander Belyanov.<br> \nAfter the German invasion of the Soviet Union (June 1941),the NKGB USSR was abolished and on July 20, 1941 the units that formed NKGB becomes part of NKVD USSR. The military CI was also upgraded from department to directorate and pot in NKVD organization as (Directorate of Special Departments or UOO NKVD USSR). The only section did not return to UOO NKVD till 11 of January 1942 was one responsible for counterintelligence in NKVMF (Navy). It returned to NKVD control in January 11 1942 as UOO 9th Department controlled by P. Gladkov. . In April 1943 Directorate of Special Departments was transformed in to SMERSH and transferred to People's Defense and Commissariates. \nThe same time, the NKVD was reduced in size and duties again by creating NKGB as independent State \nSecurity Commissariate. \nIn 1946, all Soviet Commissariats were renamed \"ministries\". Accordingly, the Peoples Commissariat of Internal Affairs (NKVD) of the USSR became the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD), while the NKGB was renamed as the Ministry of State Security (MGB). In 1953, after the arrest of Lavrenty Beria, the MGB merged back into the MVD. The police and security services finally split in 1954 to become:\n\n\n\nIn 1935–1945 Main Directorate of State Security of NKVD had its own ranking system before it was merged in the Soviet military standardized ranking system.\n\n1 – 1943; 2 – 1943–1945.\n\nThe main function of the NKVD was to protect the state security of the Soviet Union. This role was accomplished through massive political repression, including authorised murders of many thousands of politicians and citizens, as well as kidnappings, assassinations and mass deportations.\n\nIn implementing Soviet internal policy towards perceived enemies of the Soviet state (\"enemies of the people\"), untold multitudes of people were sent to GULAG camps and hundreds of thousands were executed by the NKVD. Formally, most of these people were convicted by NKVD troikas (\"triplets\")– special courts martial. Evidential standards were very low: a tip-off by an anonymous informer was considered sufficient grounds for arrest. Use of \"physical means of persuasion\" (torture) was sanctioned by a special decree of the state, which opened the door to numerous abuses, documented in recollections of victims and members of the NKVD itself. Hundreds of mass graves resulting from such operations were later discovered throughout the country. Documented evidence exists that the NKVD committed mass extrajudicial executions, guided by secret \"plans\". Those plans established the number and proportion of victims (officially \"public enemies\") in a given region (e.g. the quotas for clergy, former nobles etc., regardless of identity). The families of the repressed, including children, were also automatically repressed according to NKVD Order no. 00486.\n\nThe purges were organized in a number of waves according to the decisions of the Politburo of the Communist Party. Some examples are the campaigns among engineers (Shakhty Trial), party and military elite plots (Great Purge with Order 00447), and medical staff (\"Doctors' Plot\").\n\nA number of mass operations of the NKVD were related to the prosecution of whole ethnic categories. For example, the Polish Operation of the NKVD in 1937–1938 resulted in the execution of 111,091 Poles. Whole populations of certain ethnicities were forcibly resettled. Foreigners living in the Soviet Union were given particular attention. When disillusioned American citizens living in the Soviet Union thronged the gates of the U.S. embassy in Moscow to plead for new U.S. passports to leave USSR (their original U.S. passports had been taken for 'registration' purposes years before), none were issued. Instead, the NKVD promptly arrested all of the Americans, who were taken to Lubyanka Prison and later shot. American factory workers at the Soviet Ford GAZ plant, suspected by Stalin of being 'poisoned' by Western influences, were dragged off with the others to Lubyanka by the NKVD in the very same Ford Model A cars they had helped build, where they were tortured; nearly all were executed or died in labor camps. Many of the slain Americans were dumped in the mass grave at Yuzhnoye Butovo District near Moscow. Even so, the people of the Soviet Republics still formed the majority of NKVD victims[*17][*18].\n\nThe NKVD also served as arm of the Russian Soviet communist government for the lethal mass persecution and destruction of ethnic minorities and religious beliefs, such as the Russian Orthodox Church, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church, Greek Catholics, Islam, Judaism and other religious organizations, an operation headed by Yevgeny Tuchkov.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the NKVD was responsible for political murders of those Stalin believed to oppose him. Espionage networks headed by experienced multilingual NKVD officers such as Pavel Sudoplatov and Iskhak Akhmerov were established in nearly every major Western country, including the United States. The NKVD recruited agents for its espionage efforts from all walks of life, from unemployed intellectuals such as Mark Zborowski to aristocrats such as Martha Dodd. Besides the gathering of intelligence, these networks provided organizational assistance for so-called \"wet business\", where enemies of the USSR either disappeared or were openly liquidated.\n\nThe NKVD's intelligence and \"special operations\" (\"Inostranny Otdel\") unit organized overseas assassinations of political enemies of the USSR, such as leaders of nationalist movements, former Tsarist officials, and personal rivals of Joseph Stalin. Among the officially confirmed victims of such plots were:\n\n\nProminent political dissidents were also found dead under highly suspicious circumstances, including Walter Krivitsky, Lev Sedov, Ignace Reiss and former German Communist Party (KPD) member Willi Münzenberg.\n\nThe pro-Soviet leader Sheng Shicai in Xinjiang received NKVD assistance in conducting a purge to coincide with Stalin's Great Purge in 1937. Sheng and the Soviets alleged a massive Trotskyist conspiracy and a \"Fascist Trotskyite plot\" to destroy the Soviet Union. The Soviet Consul General Garegin Apresoff, General Ma Hushan, Ma Shaowu, Mahmud Sijan, the official leader of the Xinjiang province Huang Han-chang and Hoja-Niyaz were among the 435 alleged conspirators in the plot. Xinjiang came under virtual Soviet control. Stalin opposed the Chinese Communist Party.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War, NKVD agents, acting in conjunction with the Communist Party of Spain, exercised substantial control over the Republican government, using Soviet military aid to help further Soviet influence. The NKVD established numerous secret prisons around the capital Madrid, which were used to detain, torture, and kill hundreds of the NKVD's enemies, at first focusing on Spanish Nationalists and Spanish Catholics, while from late 1938 increasingly anarchists and Trotskyists were the objects of persecution. In 1937 Andrés Nin, the secretary of the Trotskyist POUM and his colleagues were tortured and killed in an NKVD prison in Barcelona.\n\nPrior to the German invasion, in order to accomplish its own goals, the NKVD was prepared to cooperate even with such organizations as the German Gestapo. In March 1940 representatives of the NKVD and the Gestapo met for one week in Zakopane, to coordinate the pacification of Poland; \"see Gestapo–NKVD Conferences\". For its part, the Soviet Union delivered hundreds of German and Austrian Communists to the Gestapo, as unwanted foreigners, together with their documents. However, many NKVD units were later to fight the Wehrmacht, for example the 10th Rifle Division NKVD, which fought at the Battle of Stalingrad.\n\nAfter the German invasion the NKVD evacuated and killed prisoners.\n\nDuring World War II, NKVD Internal Troops units were used for rear area security, including preventing the retreat of Soviet Union army divisions. Though mainly intended for internal security, NKVD divisions were sometimes used at the front to stem the occurrence of desertion through Stalin's Order No. 270 and Order No. 227 decrees in 1941 and 1942, which aimed to raise troop morale via brutality and coercion. At the beginning of the war the NKVD formed 15 rifle divisions, which had expanded by 1945 to 53 divisions and 28 brigades. A list of identified NKVD Internal Troops divisions can be seen at List of Soviet Union divisions. Though mainly intended for internal security, NKVD divisions were sometimes used in the front-lines, for example during the Battle of Stalingrad and the Crimean Offensive of 1944. Unlike the Waffen-SS, the NKVD did not field any armored or mechanized units.\n\nIn the enemy-held territories, the NKVD carried out numerous missions of sabotage. After fall of Kiev, NKVD agents set fire to the Nazi headquarters and various other targets, eventually burning down much of the city center. Similar actions took place across the occupied Byelorussia and Ukraine.\n\nThe NKVD (later KGB) carried out mass arrests, deportations, and executions. The targets included both collaborators with Germany and non-Communist resistance movements such as the Polish Armia Krajowa and the Ukrainian Insurgent Army aiming to separate from the Soviet Union, among others. The NKVD also executed tens of thousands of Polish political prisoners in 1939–1941, including the Katyń massacre. NKVD units were also used to repress the prolonged partisan war in Ukraine and the Baltics, which lasted until the early 1950s.\n\nAfter the death of Stalin in 1953, the new Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev halted the NKVD purges. From the 1950s to the 1980s, thousands of victims were legally \"rehabilitated\" (i.e., acquitted and had their rights restored). Many of the victims and their relatives refused to apply for rehabilitation out of fear or lack of documents. The rehabilitation was not complete: in most cases the formulation was \"due to lack of evidence of the case of crime\". Only a limited number of persons were rehabilitated with the formulation \"cleared of all charges\".\n\nVery few NKVD agents were ever officially convicted of the particular violation of anyone's rights. Legally, those agents executed in the 1930s were also \"purged\" without legitimate criminal investigations and court decisions. In the 1990s and 2000s (decade) a small number of ex-NKVD agents living in the Baltic states were convicted of crimes against the local population.\n\nThese included:\n\n\nThe extensive system of labor exploitation in the Gulag made a notable contribution to the Soviet economy and the development of remote areas. Colonization of Siberia, the North and Far East was among the explicitly stated goals in the very first laws concerning Soviet labor camps. Mining, construction works (roads, railways, canals, dams, and factories), logging, and other functions of the labor camps were part of the Soviet planned economy, and the NKVD had its own production plans.\n\nThe most unusual part of the NKVD's achievements was its role in Soviet science and arms development. Many scientists and engineers arrested for political crimes were placed in special prisons, much more comfortable than the Gulag, colloquially known as \"sharashkas\". These prisoners continued their work in these prisons. When later released, some of them became world leaders in science and technology. Among such \"sharashka\" members were Sergey Korolev, the head designer of the Soviet rocket program and first human space flight mission in 1961, and Andrei Tupolev, the famous airplane designer. Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn was also imprisoned in a sharashka, and based his novel \"The First Circle\" on his experiences there.\n\nAfter World War II, the NKVD coordinated work on Soviet nuclear weaponry, under the direction of General Pavel Sudoplatov. The scientists were not prisoners, but the project was supervised by the NKVD because of its great importance and the corresponding requirement for absolute security and secrecy. Also, the project used information obtained by the NKVD from the United States.\n\nThe agency was headed by a people's commissar (minister). His first deputy was the director of State Security Service (GUGB).\n\"Note: In the first half of 1941 Vsevolod Merkulov transformed his agency into separate commissariat (ministry), but it was merged back to the people's commissariat of Interior soon after the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. In 1943 Merkulov once again split his agency this time for good.\"\n\nAndrei Zhukov has singlehandedly identified every single NKVD officer involved in 1930s arrests and killings by researching a Moscow archive. There are just over 40,000 names on the list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "213328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213328", "title": "Negative feedback", "text": "Negative feedback\n\nNegative feedback (or balancing feedback) occurs when some function of the output of a system, process, or mechanism is fed back in a manner that tends to reduce the fluctuations in the output, whether caused by changes in the input or by other disturbances.\n\nWhereas positive feedback tends to lead to instability via exponential growth, oscillation or chaotic behavior, negative feedback generally promotes stability. Negative feedback tends to promote a settling to equilibrium, and reduces the effects of perturbations. Negative feedback loops in which just the right amount of correction is applied with optimum timing can be very stable, accurate, and responsive.\n\nNegative feedback is widely used in mechanical and electronic engineering, and also within living organisms, and can be seen in many other fields from chemistry and economics to physical systems such as the climate. General negative feedback systems are studied in control systems engineering.\n\n\nNegative feedback as a control technique may be seen in the refinements of the water clock introduced by Ktesibios of Alexandria in the 3rd century BCE. Self-regulating mechanisms have existed since antiquity, and were used to maintain a constant level in the reservoirs of water clocks as early as 200 BCE.\nNegative feedback was implemented in the 17th Century. Cornelius Drebbel had built thermostatically-controlled incubators and ovens in the early 1600s,\nand centrifugal governors were used to regulate the distance and pressure between millstones in windmills. James Watt patented a form of governor in 1788 to control the speed of his steam engine, and James Clerk Maxwell in 1868 described \"component motions\" associated with these governors that lead to a decrease in a disturbance or the amplitude of an oscillation.\n\nThe term \"feedback\" was well established by the 1920s, in reference to a means of boosting the gain of an electronic amplifier.\nFriis and Jensen described this action as \"positive feedback\" and made passing mention of a contrasting \"negative feed-back action\" in 1924.\nHarold Stephen Black came up with the idea of using negative feedback in electronic amplifiers in 1927, submitted a patent application in 1928, and detailed its use in his paper of 1934, where he defined negative feedback as a type of coupling that \"reduced\" the gain of the amplifier, in the process greatly increasing its stability and bandwidth.\n\nKarl Küpfmüller published papers on a negative-feedback-based automatic gain control system and a feedback system stability criterion in 1928.\n\nNyquist and Bode built on Black’s work to develop a theory of amplifier stability.\n\nEarly researchers in the area of cybernetics subsequently generalized the idea of negative feedback to cover any goal-seeking or purposeful behavior.\n\nCybernetics pioneer Norbert Wiener helped to formalize the concepts of feedback control, defining feedback in general as \"the chain of the transmission and return of information\", and negative feedback as the case when:\n\nWhile the view of feedback as any \"circularity of action\" helped to keep the theory simple and consistent, Ashby pointed out that, while it may clash with definitions that require a \"materially evident\" connection, \"the exact definition of feedback is nowhere important\". Ashby pointed out the limitations of the concept of \"feedback\":\nTo reduce confusion, later authors have suggested alternative terms such as \"degenerative\", \"self-correcting\", \"balancing\", or \"discrepancy-reducing\" in place of \"negative\".\n\nIn many physical and biological systems, qualitatively different influences can oppose each other. For example, in biochemistry, one set of chemicals drives the system in a given direction, whereas another set of chemicals drives it in an opposing direction. If one or both of these opposing influences are non-linear, equilibrium point(s) result.\n\nIn biology, this process (in general, biochemical) is often referred to as homeostasis; whereas in mechanics, the more common term is equilibrium.\n\nIn engineering, mathematics and the physical, and biological sciences, common terms for the points around which the system gravitates include: attractors, stable states, eigenstates/eigenfunctions, equilibrium points, and setpoints.\n\nIn control theory, \"negative\" refers to the sign of the multiplier in mathematical models for feedback. In delta notation, −Δoutput is added to or mixed into the input. In multivariate systems, vectors help to illustrate how several influences can both partially complement and partially oppose each other.\n\nSome authors, in particular with respect to modelling business systems, use \"negative\" to refer to the reduction in difference between the desired and actual behavior of a system. In a psychology context, on the other hand, \"negative\" refers to the valence of the feedback – attractive versus aversive, or praise versus criticism.\n\nIn contrast, positive feedback is feedback in which the system responds so as to increase the magnitude of any particular perturbation, resulting in amplification of the original signal instead of stabilization. Any system in which there is positive feedback together with a gain greater than one will result in a runaway situation. Both positive and negative feedback require a feedback loop to operate.\n\nHowever, negative feedback systems can still be subject to oscillations. This is caused by the slight delays around any loop. Due to these delays the feedback signal of some frequencies can arrive one half cycle later which will have a similar effect to positive feedback and these frequencies can reinforce themselves and grow over time. This problem is often dealt with by attenuating or changing the phase of the problematic frequencies. Unless the system naturally has sufficient damping, many negative feedback systems have low pass filters or dampers fitted.\n\nThere are a large number of different examples of negative feedback and some are discussed below.\n\nOne use of feedback is to make a system (say \"T\") self-regulating to minimize the effect of a disturbance (say \"D\"). Using a negative feedback loop, a measurement of some variable (for example, a process variable, say \"E\") is subtracted from a required value (the 'set point') to estimate an operational error in system status, which is then used by a regulator (say \"R\") to reduce the gap between the measurement and the required value. The regulator modifies the input to the system \"T\" according to its interpretation of the error in the status of the system. This error may be introduced by a variety of possible disturbances or 'upsets', some slow and some rapid. The regulation in such systems can range from a simple 'on-off' control to a more complex processing of the error signal.\n\nIt may be noted that the physical form of the signals in the system may change from point to point. So, for example, a change in weather may cause a disturbance to the \"heat\" input to a house (as an example of the system \"T\") that is monitored by a thermometer as a change in \"temperature\" (as an example of an 'essential variable' \"E\"), converted by the thermostat (a 'comparator') into an \"electrical\" error in status compared to the 'set point' \"S\", and subsequently used by the regulator (containing a 'controller' that commands \"gas\" control valves and an ignitor) ultimately to change the \"heat\" provided by a furnace (an 'effector') to counter the initial weather-related disturbance in heat input to the house.\n\nError controlled regulation is typically carried out using a Proportional-Integral-Derivative Controller (PID controller). The regulator signal is derived from a weighted sum of the error signal, integral of the error signal, and derivative of the error signal. The weights of the respective components depend on the application.\n\nMathematically, the regulator signal is given by:\nwhere\n\nThe negative feedback amplifier was invented by Harold Stephen Black at Bell Laboratories in 1927, and granted a patent in 1937 (US Patent 2,102,671 \"a continuation of application Serial No. 298,155, filed August 8, 1928 ...\").\n\nThere are many advantages to feedback in amplifiers. In design, the type of feedback and amount of feedback are carefully selected to weigh and optimize these various benefits.\n\nThough negative feedback has many advantages, amplifiers with feedback can oscillate. See the article on step response. They may even exhibit instability. Harry Nyquist of Bell Laboratories proposed the Nyquist stability criterion and the Nyquist plot that identify stable feedback systems, including amplifiers and control systems.\nThe figure shows a simplified block diagram of a negative feedback amplifier.\n\nThe feedback sets the overall (closed-loop) amplifier gain at a value:\n\nwhere the approximate value assumes β\"A \" » 1. This expression shows that a gain greater than one requires β < 1. Because the approximate gain 1/β is independent of the open-loop gain \"A\", the feedback is said to 'desensitize' the closed-loop gain to variations in \"A \" (for example, due to manufacturing variations between units, or temperature effects upon components), provided only that the gain \"A\" is sufficiently large. In this context, the factor (1+β\"A\") is often called the 'desensitivity factor', and in the broader context of feedback effects that include other matters like electrical impedance and bandwidth, the 'improvement factor'.\n\nIf the disturbance \"D\" is included, the amplifier output becomes:\n\nwhich shows that the feedback reduces the effect of the disturbance by the 'improvement factor' (1+β \"A\"). The disturbance \"D\" might arise from fluctuations in the amplifier output due to noise and nonlinearity (distortion) within this amplifier, or from other noise sources such as power supplies.\n\nThe difference signal \"I\"–β\"O\" at the amplifier input is sometimes called the \"error signal\". According to the diagram, the error signal is:\n\nFrom this expression, it can be seen that a large 'improvement factor' (or a large loop gain β\"A\") tends to keep this error signal small.\n\nAlthough the diagram illustrates the principles of the negative feedback amplifier, modeling a real amplifier as a unilateral forward amplification block and a unilateral feedback block has significant limitations. For methods of analysis that do not make these idealizations, see the article Negative feedback amplifier.\n\nThe operational amplifier was originally developed as a building block for the construction of analog computers, but is now used almost universally in all kinds of applications including audio equipment and control systems.\n\nOperational amplifier circuits typically employ negative feedback to get a predictable transfer function. Since the open-loop gain of an op-amp is extremely large, a small differential input signal would drive the output of the amplifier to one rail or the other in the absence of negative feedback. A simple example of the use of feedback is the op-amp voltage amplifier shown in the figure.\n\nThe idealized model of an operational amplifier assumes that the gain is infinite, the input impedance is infinite, output resistance is zero, and input offset currents and voltages are zero. Such an ideal amplifier draws no current from the resistor divider. \nIgnoring dynamics (transient effects and propagation delay), the infinite gain of the ideal op-amp means this feedback circuit drives the voltage difference between the two op-amp inputs to zero. Consequently, the voltage gain of the circuit in the diagram, assuming an ideal op amp, is the reciprocal of feedback voltage division ratio β:\n\nA real op-amp has a high but finite gain \"A\" at low frequencies, decreasing gradually at higher frequencies. In addition, it exhibits a finite input impedance and a non-zero output impedance. Although practical op-amps are not ideal, the model of an ideal op-amp often suffices to understand circuit operation at low enough frequencies. \nAs discussed in the previous section, the feedback circuit stabilizes the closed-loop gain and desensitizes the output to fluctuations generated inside the amplifier itself.\n\nAn example of the use of negative feedback control is the ballcock control of water level (see diagram). In modern engineering, negative feedback loops are found in fuel injection systems and carburettors. Similar control mechanisms are used in heating and cooling systems, such as those involving air conditioners, refrigerators, or freezers.\n\nSome biological systems exhibit negative feedback such as the baroreflex in blood pressure regulation and erythropoiesis. Many biological process (e.g., in the human anatomy) use negative feedback. Examples of this are numerous, from the regulating of body temperature, to the regulating of blood glucose levels. The disruption of feedback loops can lead to undesirable results: in the case of blood glucose levels, if negative feedback fails, the glucose levels in the blood may begin to rise dramatically, thus resulting in diabetes.\n\nFor hormone secretion regulated by the negative feedback loop: when gland X releases hormone X, this stimulates target cells to release hormone Y. When there is an excess of hormone Y, gland X \"senses\" this and inhibits its release of hormone X. As shown in the figure, most endocrine hormones are controlled by a physiologic negative feedback inhibition loop, such as the glucocorticoids secreted by the adrenal cortex. The hypothalamus secretes corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), which directs the anterior pituitary gland to secrete adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). In turn, ACTH directs the adrenal cortex to secrete glucocorticoids, such as cortisol. Glucocorticoids not only perform their respective functions throughout the body but also negatively affect the release of further stimulating secretions of both the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland, effectively reducing the output of glucocorticoids once a sufficient amount has been released.\n\nSelf-organization is the capability of certain systems \"of organizing their own behavior or structure\". There are many possible factors contributing to this capacity, and most often positive feedback is identified as a possible contributor. However, negative feedback also can play a role.\n\nIn economics, automatic stabilisers are government programs that are intended to work as negative feedback to dampen fluctuations in real GDP.\n\nMainstream economics asserts that the market pricing mechanism operates to match supply and demand, because mismatches between them feed back into the decision-making of suppliers and demanders of goods, altering prices and thereby reducing any discrepancy. However Norbert Wiener wrote in 1948:\n\nThe notion of economic equilibrium being maintained in this fashion by market forces has also been questioned by numerous heterodox economists such as financier George Soros and leading ecological economist and steady-state theorist Herman Daly, who was with the World Bank in 1988-1994.\n"}
{"id": "5330553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5330553", "title": "Ninjō", "text": "Ninjō\n\nThe classic example of \"ninjō\" is that of a samurai who falls in love with an unacceptable partner (perhaps somebody of low social class or somebody of an enemy clan). As a loyal member of his clan, he then becomes torn between the obligation to his feudal lord and his personal feelings, with the only possible resolution being \"shinjū\" or double love-suicide. The correspondence to William Shakespeare's play \"Romeo and Juliet\" or the Aeneid would be made by Japanese and non-Japanese alike. The question of whether modern Japanese still feel a greater sense of giri than their Western counterparts, and thus remain in some ineffable way psychologically closer to this sort of giri-ninjo conflict is precisely where nihonjinron divides into the Japan-centric and Japan-skeptic camps.\n"}
{"id": "34730803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34730803", "title": "Nutrition and cognition", "text": "Nutrition and cognition\n\nRelatively speaking, the brain consumes an immense amount of energy in comparison to the rest of the body. The mechanisms involved in the transfer of energy from foods to neurons are likely to be fundamental to the control of brain function. Human bodily processes, including the brain, all require both macronutrients, as well as micronutrients.\n\nInsufficient intake of selected vitamins, or certain metabolic disorders, may affect cognitive processes by disrupting the nutrient-dependent processes within the body that are associated with the management of energy in neurons, which can subsequently affect synaptic plasticity, or the ability to encode new memories.\n\nCholine is an essential nutrient and its primary function within the human body is the synthesis of cellular membranes, although it serves other functions as well. It is a precursor molecule to the neurotransmitter Acetylcholine which serves a wide range of functions including motor control and memory. Choline itself has also been shown to have additional health benefits in relation to memory and choline deficiencies may be related to some liver and neurological disorders. Because of its role in cellular synthesis, choline is an important nutrient during the prenatal and early postnatal development of offspring as it contributes heavily to the development of the brain. Despite the wide range of foods that choline is found in, studies have shown that the mean choline intake of men, women and children are below the Adequate Intake levels. Women, especially pregnant or lactating women, older people, and infants, are especially at risk for choline deficiency.\n\nB vitamins, also known as the B-complex, are an interrelated group of nutrients which often co-occur in food. The complex consists of: thiamine (B), riboflavin (B), niacin (B), pantothenic acid (B), pyridoxin (B), folic acid (B), cobalamin (B), and biotin. B vitamins are not synthesized in the body, and thus need to be obtained from food. B-complex vitamins are water-soluble vitamins, which means that they are not stored within the body. In consequence, the B vitamins need ongoing replenishment. It is possible to identify broad cognitive effects of certain B vitamins, as they are involved in many significant metabolic processes within the brain.\n\nThis vitamin is important for the facilitation of glucose use, thus ensuring the production of energy for the brain, and normal functioning of the nervous system, muscles and heart. Thiamine is found throughout mammalian nervous tissue, including the brain and spinal cord. Metabolism and coenzyme function of the vitamin suggest a distinctive function for thiamine within the nervous system. The brain retains its thiamine content in the face of a vitamin-deficient diet with great tenacity, as it is the last of all nervous tissues studied to become depleted.\n\nLack of thiamin causes the disease known as beriberi. There are two forms of beriberi: \"wet\", and \"dry\". Dry beriberi is also known as cerebral beriberi and characterized by peripheral neuropathy. Thiamine deficiency has been reported in up to 80% of alcoholic patients due to inadequate nutritional intake, reduced absorption, and impaired utilization of thiamine. Clinical signs of B deficiency include mental changes such as apathy, decrease in short-term memory, confusion, and irritability; also increased rates of depression, dementia, falls, and fractures in old age.\n\nThe lingering symptoms of neuropathy associated with cerebral beriberi are known as Korsakoff's syndrome, or the chronic phase of Wernicke-Korsakoff's. Wernicke encephalopathy is characterized by ocular abnormalities, ataxia of gait, a global state of confusion, and neuropathy. The state of confusion associated with Wernicke's may consist of apathy, inattention, spatial disorientation, inability to concentrate, and mental sluggishness or restlessness. Clinical diagnosis of Wernicke's disease cannot be made without evidence of ocular disturbance, yet these criteria may be too rigid. Korsakoff's syndrome likely represents a variation in the clinical manifestation of Wernicke encephalophathy, as they both share similar pathological origin. It is often characterized by confabulation, disorientation, and profound amnesia. Characteristics of the neuropathology are varied, but generally consist of bilaterally symmetrical midline lesions of brainstem areas, including the mammillary bodies, thalamus, periaqueductal region, hypothalamus, and the cerebellar vermis. Immediate treatment of Wernicke encephalopathy involves the administration of intravenous thiamine, followed with long-term treatment and prevention of the disorder through oral thiamine supplements, alcohol abstinence, and a balanced diet. Improvements in brain functioning of chronic alcoholics may occur with abstinence-related treatment, involving the discontinuation of alcohol consumption and improved nutrition.\n\nVitamin B, also known as niacin, includes both nicotinamide as well as nicotinic acid, both of which function in many biological oxidization and reduction reactions within the body. Niacin is involved in the synthesis of fatty acids and cholesterol, known mediators of brain biochemistry, and in effect, of cognitive function. Pellagra is a niacin deficiency disease. Pellagra is classically characterized by four 4 \"D's\": diarrhea, dermatitis, dementia, and death. Neuropsychiatric manifestations of pellagra include headache, irritability, poor concentration, anxiety, hallucinations, stupor, apathy, psychomotor unrest, photophobia, tremor, ataxia, spastic paresis, fatigue, and depression. Symptoms of fatigue and insomnia may progress to encephalophathy characterized by confusion, memory loss, and psychosis. Those afflicted with pellagra may undergo pathological alterations in the nervous system. Findings may include demylenation and degeneration of various affected parts of the brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nerves.\n\nOral nicotinamide has been promoted as an over-the-counter drug for the treatment of Alzheimer's dementia. Conversely, no clinically significant effect has been found for the drug, as nicotinamide administration has not been found to promote memory functions in patients with mild to moderate dementia of either Alzheimers', vascular, or fronto-temporal types. This evidence suggests that nicotinamide may treat dementia as related to pellegra, but administration does not effectively treat other types of dementia. Though treatment with niacin does little to alter the effects of Alzheimer's dementia, niacin intake from foods is inversely associated with the disease.\n\nFolate and vitamin B play a vital role in the synthesis of S-adenosylmethionine, which is of key importance in the maintenance and repair of all cells, including neurons. In addition, folate has been linked to the maintenance of adequate brain levels of cofactors necessary for chemicals reactions that lead to the synthesis of serotonin and catecholamine neurotransmitters. Concentrations of blood plasma folate and homocysteine concentrations are inversely related, such that an increase in dietary folate decreases homocysteine concentration. Thus, dietary intake of folate is a major determinant of homocysteine levels within the body. The relationship between folate and B is so interdependent that deficiency in either vitamin can result in megaloblastic anemia, characterized by organic mental change.\n\nThe link between levels of folate and altered mental function is not large, but is sufficient enough to suggest a causal association. Deficiency in folate can cause an elevation of homocysteine within the blood, as the clearance of homocysteine requires enzymatic action dependent on folate, and to a lesser extent, vitamins B and B. Elevated homocysteine has been associated with increased risk of vascular events, as well as dementia.\n\nDifferences lie in the presentation of megaloblastic anemia induced by either folate or B deficiency. Megaloblastic anemia related to deficiency in B generally results in peripheral neuropathy, whereas folate-related anemia often results in affective, or mood disorders. Neurological effects are not often associated with folate-related megaloblastic anemia, although demyelinating disorders may eventually present. In one study, mood disturbances were recorded for the majority of patients presenting with megaloblastic anemia in the absence of B deficiency. In addition, folate concentrations within blood plasma have been found to be lower in patients with both unipolar and bipolar depressive disorders when compared with control groups. In addition, depressive groups with low folate concentrations responded less well to standard antidepressant therapy than did those with normal levels within plasma. However, replication of these findings are less robust.\n\nIntake of the vitamin has been linked to deficits in learning and memory, particularly within the elderly population. Elderly people deficient in folate may present with deficits in free recall and recognition, which suggests that levels of folate may be related to efficacy of episodic memory. Lack of adequate folate may produce a form of dementia considered to be reversible with administration of the vitamin. Indeed, there is a degree of improvement in memory associated with folate treatment. In a 3-year longitudinal study of men and women aged 50–70 years with elevated homocysteine plasma concentration, researchers found that a daily oral folic acid supplementation of 800μg resulted in an increase in folate levels and a decrease in homocysteine levels within blood plasma. In addition to these results, improvements of memory, and information-processing speed, as well as slight improvements of sensorimotor speed were observed, which suggests there is a link between homocysteine and cognitive performance. However, while the amount of cognitive improvement after treatment with folate is correlated with the severity of folate deficiency, the severity of cognitive decline is independent of the severity of folate deficiency. This suggests that the dementia observed may not be entirely related to levels folate, as there could be additional factors that were not accounted for which might have an effect.\n\nBecause neurulation may be completed before pregnancy is recognized, it is recommended that women capable of becoming pregnant take about 400μg of folic acid from fortified foods, supplements, or a combination of the two in order to reduce the risk of neural tube defects. These major anomalies in the nervous system can be reduced by 85% with systematic folate supplementation occurring before the onset of pregnancy. The incidence of Alzheimer's and other cognitive diseases has been loosely connected to deficiencies in folate. It is recommended for the elderly to consume folate through food, fortified or not, and supplements in order to reduce risk of developing the disease.\n\nAlso known as cobalamin, B is important for the maintenance of neurological function and psychiatric health. B deficiency, also known as hypocobalaminemia, often results from complications involving absorption into the body. An assortment of neurological effects can be observed in 75–90% of individuals of any age with clinically observable B deficiency. Cobalamin deficiency manifestations are apparent in the abnormalities of the spinal cord, peripheral nerves, optic nerves, and cerebrum. These abnormalities involve a progressive degeneration of myelin, and may be expressed behaviorally through reports of sensory disturbances in the extremities, or motor disturbances, such as gait ataxia. Combined myelopathy and neuropathy are prevalent within a large percentage of cases. Cognitive changes may range from loss of concentration to memory loss, disorientation, and dementia. All of these symptoms may present with or without additional mood changes. Mental symptoms are extremely variable, and include mild disorders of mood, mental slowness, and memory defect. Memory defect encompasses symptoms of confusion, severe agitation and depression, delusions and paranoid behavior, visual and auditory hallucinations, dysphasia, violent maniacal behavior and epilepsy. It has been suggested that mental symptoms could be related to a decrease in cerebral metabolism, as caused by the state of deficiency.\n\nMild to moderate cases of pernicious anemia may show poor concentration. In severe cases of pernicious anemia, individuals may present with various cognitive problems such as dementia, and memory loss. It is not always easy to determine whether B deficiency is present, especially within older adults. Patients may present with violent behavior or more subtle personality changes. They may also present with vague complaints, such as fatigue or memory loss, that may be attributed to normative aging processes. Cognitive symptoms may mimic behavior in Alzheimer's and other dementias as well.\n\nPatients deficient in B despite normal absorption functionality may be treated through oral administration of at least 6 µg/day of the vitamin in pill form. Patients who suffer from irreversible causes of deficiency, such as pernicious anemia or old age, will need lifelong treatment with pharmacological doses of B. Strategy for treatment is dependent on the patient's level of deficiency as well as their level of cognitive functioning. Treatment for those with severe deficiency involves 1000 µg of B administered intramuscularly daily for one week, weekly for one month, then monthly for the rest of the patients life. The progression of neurological manifestations of cobalamin deficiency is generally gradual. As a result, early diagnosis is important or else irreversible damage may occur. Patients who become demented usually show little to no cognitive improvement with the administration of B. There is risk that folic acid administered to those with B deficiency may mask anemic symptoms without solving the issue at hand. In this case, patients would still be at risk for neurological deficits associated with B deficiency-related anemia, which are not associated with anemia related to folate deficiency.\n\nVitamin A is an essential nutrient for mammals which takes form in either retinol or the provitamin beta-Carotene. It helps regulation of cell division, cell function, genetic regulation, helps enhance the immune system, and is required for brain function, chemical balance, growth and development of the central nervous system and vision.\n\nFoods that are rich in omega-3 fatty acids have been shown to decrease risk of getting Alzheimer's disease. Omega-3 fatty acids, primarily docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which is the most prevalent omega-3 fatty acid found in neurons, have been studied extensively for use in possible prevention and therapy of Alzheimer's disease. Some studies (cross-sectional) suggest that reduced intake or low brain levels of DHA are associated with earlier development of cognitive deficits or development of dementia, including Alzheimer's disease. Several clinical trials suggest that omega-3 fatty acid supplementation does not have significant effects in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease—which in turn may suggest that the protective benefits of omega-3 fatty acid supplementation could depend on the scope of the disease and other confounding factors. A diet that is rich in antioxidants will also help get rid of free radicals in the body, which could be a cause for Alzheimer's. The buildup of Beta Amyloid plaques, a marker highly associated with Alzheimer's disease, generates cell damaging free radicals. Therefore, the role of antioxidants as protectants against Alzheimer's disease has become a hot topic of study. Simple dietary modification, towards fewer highly processed carbohydrates and relatively more fats ad cholesterol, is likely a protective measure against Alzheimer's disease.\n\nAdditionally, folic acid has also been found to improve the memory of older people. There is some evidence that deficiency in folic acid may increase the risk of dementia, especially Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia, but there is debate about whether it lowers risk of cognitive impairment in the older population. Folic acid supplementation is shown to lower blood homocysteine levels, while folic acid deficiency can lead to a condition of high levels of homocysteine (Hcy) in the bloodstream called hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy). HHcy is related to several vascular diseases such as coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, and stroke.\n\n"}
{"id": "58942575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58942575", "title": "Political Obligation", "text": "Political Obligation\n\nPolitical Obligation refers to a moral requirement to obey the laws of one’s country. The origins of the political obligation are somewhat unclear, however it can be traced back to the Ancient Greeks. The idea of political obligation is also a philosophical one, that focuses on the morality of laws, rather than if a law is just or not as well as the obvious self-interests.\n\nThe idea of political obligation was first founded by Thomas Hill Green around the late 1800's. For Green, he discussed this idea as \"obedience to the law.\" However, Green's explanation for what is Political Obligation only scratches the surface, and a more detailed look at the term can be traced to the thoughts of Socrates and Plato. Dudley Knowles also looks at this through his book \"Political Obligation: A Critical Introduction\", and finds a more detailed look at the relationship the person and the state have towards each other.\n\nThe earliest understanding of political obligation can be traced back to the teachings of Socrates. One account recalls Socrates being jailed and sentenced to death for \"corrupting the morals of the youth\". Socrates was set to escape, a design set up by his friends, however he chose to stay and accept his punishment, as he found it morally wrong not to do so. In Crito, Socrates describes the struggle man has with the rule of law and the connection it has with humans political obligation.\n"}
{"id": "34705865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34705865", "title": "Political violence in Turkey (1976–80)", "text": "Political violence in Turkey (1976–80)\n\nPolitical violence in Turkey became a challenging problem in late 1970s. The violence was even described as a \"low-level war\". The death squads of Turkish right-wing ultra-nationalist groups against left-wing opposition inflicted some 5,000 casualties. The wave of violence dimmed after the 1980 Turkish coup d'état.\n\nIn 1975 Süleyman Demirel, president of the conservative Justice Party (, AP) succeeded Bülent Ecevit, president of the social-democratic Republican People's Party (, CHP) as Prime Minister. He formed a coalition called \"the Nationalist Front ()\" with Necmettin Erbakan's Islamist National Salvation Party (, MSP), and Alparslan Türkeş' far right Nationalist Movement Party (, MHP). The MHP used the opportunity to infiltrate state security services, seriously aggravating the low-intensity war that was waging between rival factions.\n\nThe elections of 1977 had no winner. First, Demirel continued the coalition with the Nationalist Front, but in 1978, Ecevit was able to get to power again with the help of some deputies who had shifted from one party to another. In 1979, Demirel once again became Prime Minister. At the end of the 1970s, Turkey was in an unstable situation with unsolved economic and social problems facing strike actions and partial paralysis of politics (the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was unable to elect a President during the six months preceding the coup). Since 1968–69, a proportional representation system had made it difficult to find any parliamentary majority. The interests of the industrial bourgeoisie, which held the largest holdings of the country, were opposed by other social classes such as smaller industrialists, traders, rural notables, and landlords, whose interests did not always coincide among themselves. Numerous agricultural and industrial reforms requested by parts of the middle upper classes were blocked by others. Henceforth, the politicians seemed unable to combat the growing violence in the country.\n\nUnprecedented political violence had erupted in Turkey in the late 1970s. The overall death toll of the 1970s is estimated at 5,000, with nearly ten assassinations per day. Most were members of left-wing and right-wing political organizations, then engaged in bitter fighting. The ultra-nationalist Grey Wolves, youth organisation of the MHP, claimed they were supporting the security forces. According to the British \"Searchlight magazine\", in 1978 there were 3,319 fascist attacks, in which 831 were killed and 3,121 wounded. In the central trial against the left-wing organization Devrimci Yol (Revolutionary Path) at Ankara Military Court the defendants listed 5,388 political killings before the military coup. Among the victims were 1,296 right-wingers and 2,109 left-wingers. The others could not clearly be related. The 1978 Bahçelievler Massacre, the 1977 Taksim Square massacre with 35 victims and the 1978 Maraş massacre with over 100 victims are some notable incidents. Martial law was announced following the Kahramanmaraş Massacre in 14 of (then) 67 provinces in December 1978. At the time of the coup martial law had been extended to 20 provinces.\n\nEcevit was warned about the coming coup in June 1979 by Nuri Gündeş of the National Intelligence Organization (MİT). Ecevit then told his interior minister, İrfan Özaydınlı, who then told Sedat Celasun—one of the five generals who would lead the coup. The deputy undersecretary of the MİT, Nihat Yıldız, was demoted to the London consulate and replaced by a lieutenant general as a result.\n\nThe right-wing groups were opposed towards Kurdish separatism. Disproportionate numbers of Kurds were part of the left-wing groups. Most of the left was also Turkish nationalist and opposed towards separatism. Before the coup of 1980 only a minority of the violence was committed by separatists, after that it increased.\n\n"}
{"id": "41215605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41215605", "title": "Powered by the Apocalypse", "text": "Powered by the Apocalypse\n\nPowered by the Apocalypse (PbtA) is a role-playing game system developed for the 2010 game \"Apocalypse World\" and also used for \"Dungeon World\", \"Monsterhearts\" and numerous other RPGs. \"Apocalypse World\" won the 2010 Indie RPG Awards for \"Most Innovative Game\" and Dungeon World won the 2013 ENnie award for \"Best Rules\".\n\nPowered by the Apocalypse games are centered around resolving what characters do as Moves. Characters have access to a default selection of moves based on the expectations of the game setting. In the fantasy game, \"Dungeon World\", characters have access to a hack and slash move, as combat is central to the dungeoneering experience. Alternatively, \"Apocalypse World\" has a \"seize by force\" move, as the game assumes a setting where collecting scarce resources is part of the game-play experience. \"Apocalypse World\", \"Dungeon World\", and most other PbtA games are class based. Character classes have access to a number of class-specific moves.\n\nMoves are resolved by rolling two six-sided dice and adding the relevant modifier, should modifiers be a mechanic in the game. Success levels fall on a scale of total success, partial success, or failure - referred to as a \"miss\" in the system.\n\nBecause of the simplicity and the flexibility of the Powered by the Apocalypse engine, and Vincent Baker's encouragement of publishing hacks, there are at least four dozen fan-made hacks that have reached the point of public playtesting. This list only covers the ones actually published.\n\nApocalypse World is the post-apocalyptic game the system was created for and is set after an unspecified apocalypse (which may be specified either in the course of play or left a mystery) that created a psychic maelstrom.\n\n\"Dungeon World\" is a fantasy game, created by Sage LaTorra and Adam Koebel. The game is advertised as having old-school style with modern rules. The text of the game was released under the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License. The setting for \"Dungeon World\" is \"Dungeons & Dragons\"-esque fantasy. Rather than present a pre-written setting, the game master is instructed to \"Draw maps and leave blanks\", meaning to not put too much detail in the setting but allow it to emerge in play.\n\nEpyllion is a game where you play dragons in a dragon-centric world, published by Magpie Games.\n\nKULT: Divinity Lost is a reboot of the contemporary horror role-playing game \"Kult\", originally released in 1991. This Kickstartered version of the game features a completely new rule-set, and the setting is updated to present day. Published by Swedish Helmgast and distributed by Modiphius.\n\nLegacy is a game of survival and rebuilding in a world ravaged and altered by incomprehensible calamity. Its biggest feature is gameplay at multiple levels: each player builds a Family of survivors and a Character from that family. Stories take place across multiple generations, with each generation creating new characters and altering the families. Family stats are Reach, Grasp, Tech and Mood, with playbooks including The Enclave of Bygone Lore, The Brotherhood of Gilded Merchants, The Tyrant Kings, The Servants of the One True Faith, and The Lawgivers of the Wasteland. Character stats are Steel, Sway, Force and Lore, with playbooks including the Hunter, the Envoy, the Seeker and the Sentinel. Designed by James Iles and successfully kickstarted in December, 2014. After another successful Kickstarter campaign, a second edition was released in June 2018.\n\nMASHED explores life in a Mobile Army Surgical Hospital (MASH) during the Korean War. Default statistics are Luck, Nerve, Skill, and Tough. The character playbooks are the Angel (nurse), Corpsman, Cowboy (pilot or mechanic), Cutter (surgeon), Doc (physician), Grunt (aka pogue), and Padre (chaplain). Designed by Mark Plemmons, MASHED was Kickstarted in October 2016 and published by Brabblemark Press in January 2017.\n\nMasks focuses on the lives of a team of teenage superheroes, inspired by the Young Avengers, Teen Titans, and Marvel's Runaways. The playbooks include the Beacon, the Bull, the Doomed, the Legacy, the Janus, the Transformed, the Protégé, the Delinquent, the Nova, and the Outsider. It was successfully funded on Kickstarter in fall of 2015 and subsequently published by Magpie Games.\n\nMonsterhearts is \"A story game about the lives of teenage monsters\" by Avery Alder. Default statistics are Hot, Cold, Volatile, and Dark, and the playbooks presented in the main rulebook are The Chosen, the Fae, the Ghoul, the Queen, the Witch, the Werewolf, the Infernal, and the Vampire. It was nominated for six separate awards, although didn't win any.\n\n\"An action-horror role playing game\" about a group of monster hunters, written by Michael Sands. Statistics are Charm, Cool, Sharp, Tough, and Weird and the default classes are the Chosen, the Expert, the Flake, the Initiate, the Monstrous, the Mundane, the Professional, the Sidekick, the Spooky, and the Wronged.\n\nRuma: Dawn of Empire is an upcoming game by Martin Greening. The game is set in an alternate Roman Empire, called the Ruman Empire, where magic and mythology also exists. The project was launched on Kickstarter where it was successfully funded, having raised $10,046.\n\n\"The game is set sometime after the year 874, when the first Norse settlers set foot on Iceland. They were escaping war, poverty and the dissolution of their political freedoms on the mainland.\" Statistics are Versed, Young, Gendered, and Wyrd. Default classes are The Child, the Woman, the Man, the Matriarch, the Godi, the Seidkona, the Wanderer, the Shield-Maiden, the Huscarl, the Thrall, and the Monster.\n\nSpirit of 77 is an action RPG based on 1970s pop culture, including \"The Six Million Dollar Man\", \"Shaft\" and the \"Dukes of Hazzard\". Popular music of the time plays heavily into its gameplay, including the option for players to play 1970s \"rockers\", ala Fleetwood Mac and Kiss. The game includes multiple adventures packaged as \"Double Features\", including titles such as \"Women's Prison of the Apes\", \"BEAST: Bound and Down\" and \"Jurassic Parking Lot\". Published by Monkeyfun Studios.\n\nThe Sprawl is a cyberpunk RPG in which parties of underground criminals run missions for and/or against vast megacorporations while trying to avoid exposure and extermination. William Gibson's Sprawl trilogy is cited as a major inspiration. Graphics, editing, and supplemental fiction for the RPG were funded via Kickstarter. Game books began releasing in early 2016.\n\nA storytelling RPG in the style of the works of H. P. Lovecraft, Tremulus was Kickstarted and raised over $60,000. Statistics are Reason, Passion, Might, Luck, and Affinity, and the default classes are The Alienist, The Antiquarian, The Author, The Devout, The Detective, The Dilettante, The Doctor, The Heir, The Journalist, The Professor, and The Salesman. There were plans for the kickstarter to produce a \"The Congo\" playset, allowing characters to explore \"the Heart of Darkness\" – this idea was dropped after a backlash.\n\nSuccessfully backed on KickStarter, Uncharted Worlds is \"A Space Opera pen-and-paper roleplaying game of exploration, combat, politics and commerce across the stars.\" Designed by Sean Gomes.\n\nAn urban fantasy game set in \"a dark urban environment drowning in supernatural politics\", with Archetypes including vampires, werewolves, wizards, ghosts and human monster hunters using the main stats of Blood, Heart, Mind and Spirit. \"Urban Shadows\" introduces systems to emphasize the political, tragic and horrific aspects of the genre: characters must interact with different Factions to advance, or mark Corruption to gain unique and powerful moves while drawing closer to being retired from play dead or to become antagonists. Written by Andrew Medeiros and Mark Diaz Truman and published by Truman's Magpie Games as a result of a successful Kickstarter campaign.\n\n2016 Ennie Award Nominee for Best Game\n\n\"The Warren is a tabletop role-playing game about intelligent rabbits trying to make the best of a world filled with hazards, predators and, worst of all, other rabbits. It is a game about survival and community.\" Published in 2016, \"This game takes inspiration from classic rabbit tales such as \"Watership Down\", \"Fifteen Rabbits\", and \"Peter Rabbit\". It uses a heavily-modified version of the game mechanics from Vincent Baker’s Apocalypse World.\"\n\nWorlds in Peril is a tabletop roleplaying game designed to tell collaborative stories about superheroes taking on both the challenges faced as a superhero, with the villains and public image and fame (or perhaps infamy) that goes along with it, as well as the challenges they face in their personal lives when they take off the mask and have to deal with everyday problems and relationships like everybody else. Designed by Kyle Simons, Adam Bosarge, Jason Faulk.\n\nIn addition to other awards won, \"Apocalypse World\" won the 2010 Indie RPG Award for \"Most Innovative Game\" and \"Dungeon World\" won the 2013 ENnie award for \"Best Rules\".\n\nMultiple reviews, including Play Unplugged's review of \"Apocalypse World\" and on the streamlining and focus on the fiction the system's reliance on moves produces. \"Bitch\" magazine has commented on the messy interconnected relationships the system produces.\n"}
{"id": "12934176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12934176", "title": "Preformationism", "text": "Preformationism\n\nIn the history of biology, preformationism (or preformism) is a formerly-popular theory that organisms develop from miniature versions of themselves. Instead of assembly from parts, preformationists believed that the form of living things exist, in real terms, prior to their development. It suggests that all organisms were created at the same time, and that succeeding generations grow from homunculi, or animalcules, that have existed since the beginning of creation.\n\nEpigenesis (or neoformism), then, in this context, is the denial of preformationism: the idea that, in some sense, the form of living things comes into existence. As opposed to \"strict\" preformationism, it is the notion that \"each embryo or organism is gradually produced from an undifferentiated mass by a series of steps and stages during which new parts are added\" (Magner 2002, p. 154). This word is still used, on the other hand, in a more modern sense, to refer to those aspects of the generation of form during ontogeny that are not strictly genetic, or, in other words, \"epigenetic\".\n\nFurthermore, apart from those distinctions (preformationism-epigenesis and genetic-epigenetic), the terms preformistic development, epigenetic development and somatic embryogenesis are also used in another context, in relation to the differentiation of a distinct germ cell line. In preformistic development, the germ line is present since early development. In epigenetic development, the germ line is present, but it appears late. In somatic embryogenesis, a distinct germ line is lacking. Some authors call Weismannist development (either preformistic or epigenetic) that in which there is a distinct germ line.\n\nThe historical ideas of preformationism and epigenesis, and the rivalry between them, are obviated by our contemporary understanding of the genetic code and its molecular basis together with developmental biology and epigenetics.\n\nPythagoras is one of the earliest thinkers credited with ideas about the origin of form in the biological production of offspring. It is said that he originated \"spermism\", the doctrine that fathers contribute the essential characteristics of their offspring while mothers contribute only a material substrate. Aristotle accepted and elaborated this idea, and his writings are the vector that transmitted it to later Europeans. Aristotle purported to analyse ontogeny in terms of the material, formal, efficient, and teleological causes (as they are usually named by later anglophone philosophy) – a view that, though more complex than some subsequent ones, is essentially more epigenetic than preformationist. Later, European physicians such as Galen, Realdo Colombo and Girolamo Fabrici would build upon Aristotle's theories, which were prevalent well into the 17th century.\n\nIn 1651, William Harvey published \"On the Generation of Animals\" (\"Exercitationes de Generatione Animalium\"), a seminal work on embryology that contradicted many of Aristotle's fundamental ideas on the matter. Harvey famously asserted, for example, that \"ex ovo omnia\"—all animals come from eggs. Because of this assertion in particular, Harvey is often credited with being the father of ovist preformationism. However, Harvey's ideas about the process of development were fundamentally epigenesist. As gametes (male sperm and female ova) were too small to be seen under the best magnification at the time, Harvey's account of fertilization was theoretical rather than descriptive. Although he once postulated a \"spiritous substance\" that exerted its effect on the female body, he later rejected it as superfluous and thus unscientific. He guessed instead that fertilization occurred through a mysterious transference by contact, or contagion.\n\nHarvey's epigenesis, more mechanistic and less vitalist than the Aristotelian version, was, thus, more compatible with the natural philosophy of the time. Still, the idea that unorganized matter could ultimately self-organize into life challenged the mechanistic framework of Cartesianism, which had become dominant in the Scientific Revolution. Because of technological limitations, there was no available mechanical explanation for epigenesis. It was simpler and more convenient to postulate preformed miniature organisms that expanded in accordance with mechanical laws. So convincing was this explanation that some naturalists claimed to actually see miniature preformed animals (animalcules) in eggs and miniature plants in seeds. In the case of humans, the term homunculus was used.\n\nAfter the discovery of spermatozoa in 1677 by Dutch microscopist Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, the epigenist theory proved more difficult to defend: How could complex organisms such as human beings develop from such simple organisms? Thereafter, Joseph de Aromatari and then Marcello Malpighi and Jan Swammerdam made observations using microscopes in the late 17th century, and interpreted their findings to develop the preformationist theory. For two centuries, until the development of cell theory, preformationists would oppose epigenicists, and, inside the preformationist camp, spermists (who claimed the homunculus must come from the man) to ovists, who located the homunculus in the ova.\n\nDutch microscopist Antonie van Leeuwenhoek was one of the first to observe spermatozoa. He described the spermatozoa of about 30 species, and thought he saw in semen \"all manner of great and small vessels, so various and so numerous that I do not doubt that they be nerves, arteries and veins...And when I saw them, I felt convinced that, in no full grown body, are there any vessels which may not be found likewise in semen.\" (Friedman 76-7)\n\nLeeuwenhoek discovered that the origin of semen was the testicles and was a committed preformationist and spermist. He reasoned that the movement of spermatozoa was evidence of animal life, which presumed a complex structure and, for human sperm, a soul. (Friedman 79)\n\nIn 1694, Nicolaas Hartsoeker, in his \"Essai de Dioptrique\" concerning things large and small that could be seen with optical lenses, produced an image of a tiny human form curled up inside the sperm, which he referred to in the French as \"petit l'infant\" and \"le petit animal\". This image, depicting what historians now refer to as the homunculus, has become iconic of the theory of preformationism, and appears in almost every textbook concerning the history of embryological science.\n\nPhilosopher Nicolas Malebranche was the first to advance the hypothesis that each embryo could contain even smaller embryos ad infinitum, like a Matryoshka doll. According to Malebranche, \"an infinite series of plants and animals were contained within the seed or the egg, but only naturalists with sufficient skill and experience could detect their presence.\" (Magner 158-9) In fact, Malebranche only alleged this, observing that if microscopes enabled us to see very little animals and plants, maybe even smaller creatures could exist. He claimed that it was not unreasonable to believe that \"they are infinite trees in only one seed,\" as he stated that we could already see chickens in eggs, tulips in bulbs, frogs in eggs. From this, he hypothesized that \"all the bodies of humans and animals,\" already born and yet to be born, \"were perhaps produced as soon as the creation of the world.\" \n\nOva were known in some non-mammalian species, and semen was thought to spur the development of the preformed organism contained therein. The theory that located the homonculus in the egg was called ovism. But, when spermatozoa were discovered, a rival camp of spermists sprang up, claiming that the homunculus must come from the male. In fact, the term \"spermatozoon,\" coined by Karl Ernst von Baer, means \"seed animals.\"\n\nWith the discovery of sperm and the concept of spermism came a religious quandary. Why would so many little animals be wasted with each ejaculation of semen? Pierre Lyonet said the wastage proved that sperm could not be the seeds of life. Leibniz supported a theory called panspermism that the wasted sperm might actually be scattered (for example, by the wind) and generate life wherever they found a suitable host.\n\nLeibniz also believed that “death is only a transformation enveloped through diminution,” meaning that not only have organisms always existed in their living form, but that they will always exist, body united to soul, even past apparent death.\n\nIn the 18th century, some animalculists thought that an animal's sperm behaved like the adult animal, and recorded such observations. Some, but not all, preformationists at this time claimed to see miniature organisms inside the sex cells. But, about this time, spermists began to use more abstract arguments to support their theories.\n\nJean Astruc, noting that parents of both sexes seemed to influence the characteristics of their offspring, suggested that the animalcule came from the sperm and was then shaped as it passed into the egg. Buffon and Pierre Louis Moreau also advocated theories to explain this phenomenon.\n\nPreformationism, especially ovism, was the dominant theory of generation during the 18th century. It competed with spontaneous generation and epigenesis, but those two theories were often rejected on the grounds that inert matter could not produce life without God's intervention.\nSome animals' regenerative capabilities challenged preformationism, and Abraham Trembley's studies of the hydra convinced various authorities to reject their former views.\nLazaro Spallanzani, Trembley's nephew, experimented with regeneration and semen, but failed to discern the importance of spermatozoa, dismissing them as parasitic worms and concluding instead that it was the liquid portion of semen that caused the preformed organism in the ovum to develop.\n\nCaspar Friedrich Wolff, an epigenicist, was an 18th-century exception who argued for objectivity and freedom from religious influence on scientific questions.\n\nDespite careful observation of developing embryos, epigenesis suffered from a lack of a theoretical mechanism of generation. Wolff proposed an \"essential force\" as the agent of change, and Immanuel Kant with Johann Friedrich Blumenbach proposed a \"developing drive\" or \"\", a concept related to self-organization.\n\nNaturalists of the late 18th century and the 19th century embraced Wolff's philosophy, but primarily because they rejected the application of mechanistic development, as seen in the expansion of miniature organisms. It was not until the late 19th century that preformationism was discarded in the face of cell theory. Now, scientists \"realized that they need not treat living organisms as machines, nor give up all hope of ever explaining the mechanisms that govern living beings.\" (Magner 173)\n\nWhen John Dalton's atomic theory of matter superseded Descartes' philosophy of infinite divisibility at the beginning of the 19th century, preformationism was struck a further blow. There was not enough space at the bottom of the spectrum to accommodate infinitely stacked animalcules, without bumping into the constituent parts of matter. (Gee 43)\n\nNear the end of the 19th century, the most prominent advocates of preformationatism and epigenesis were Wilhelm Roux and Hans Driesch. Driesch's experiments on the development of the embryos of sea urchins are considered as deciding the case in favor of epigenesis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13655986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13655986", "title": "Problem statement", "text": "Problem statement\n\nA problem statement is a concise description of an issue to be addressed or a condition to be improved upon. It identifies the gap between the current (problem) state and desired (goal) state of a process or product. Focusing on the facts, the problem statement should be designed to address the 5 W’s – who, what, where, when, and why. The first condition of solving a problem is understanding the problem, which can be done by way of a problem statement.\n\nProblem statements are widely used by businesses and organizations to execute process improvement projects. A simple and well-defined problem statement will be used by the project team to understand the problem and work toward developing a solution. It will also provide management with specific insights into the problem so that they can make appropriate project-approving decisions. As such, it is crucial for the problem statement to be clear and unambiguous.\n\nThe main purpose of the problem statement is to identify and explain the problem. This includes describing the existing environment, where the problem occurs, and what impacts it has on users, finances, and ancillary activities. Additionally, the problem statement is used to explain what the expected environment looks like. Defining the desired condition provides an overall vision for the process or product. It makes clear the purpose for initiating the improvement project and the goals that it is meant to accomplish.\n\nAnother important function of the problem statement is to be used as a communication device. It helps with obtaining buy-in from those involved in the project. Before the project begins, the stakeholders verify the problem and goals are accurately described in the problem statement. Once this approval is received, the project team reviews it to ensure everyone understands the issue at hand and what they are trying to accomplish. This also helps define the project scope, which keeps the project concentrated on the overall goal.\n\nThe problem statement is referenced throughout the project to establish focus within the project team and verify they stay on track. At the end of the project, it is revisited to confirm the implemented solution indeed solves the problem. A well-defined problem statement can also aid in performing root-cause analysis to understand why the problem occurred and ensure measures can be taken to prevent it from happening in the future. \n\nIt is important to note that the problem statement does \"not\" define the solution or methods of reaching the solution. The problem statement simply recognizes the gap between the problem and goal states. It can be said that, “a problem well stated is half solved.” However, there are often multiple, viable solutions to a problem. Only after the problem statement is written and agreed upon should the solution(s) be discussed and the resulting course of action determined.\n\nBefore the problem statement can be crafted, the problem must be defined. It is human nature to want to begin working on a solution as soon as possible and neglecting the definition of the true problem to be solved. However, a poorly defined problem increases the risk of implementing a solution that does not fully meet the expected results. A problem cannot be solved if it is not completely understood.\n\nThe process of defining the problem is often a group effort. It starts with meeting with the stakeholders, customers, and/or users affected by the issue (if possible) and learning about their pain points. Since people often struggle with effectively communicating their issues, particularly to someone outside of the process, it is helpful to ask a series of “why” questions until the underlying reasoning is identified. This method, known as the “5 Why’s”, helps drill down to the core problem as many of the experienced frustrations could be mere symptoms of the actual problem. Asking these additional questions as well as paraphrasing what the stakeholder had said demonstrates a degree of empathy and understanding of the problem.\n\nThe information collected from these initial interviews is only one part of problem analysis. Many times the problem extends to multiple areas or functions to which the stakeholders, customers, and users are unaware. They may also be familiar with what is happening on the surface but not necessarily the underlying cause. Therefore, it is just as essential to gather knowledge, information, and insights from project team members and subject matter experts concerning the problem. Additional research materials, including work instructions, user manuals, product specifications, workflow charts, and previous project plans may also need to be consulted. Like most other stages in the process improvement project, defining the problem is often iterative as several rounds of discussions may be needed to get the full picture.\n\nOnce the problem is understood and the circumstances driving the project initiation are clear, it is time to write the problem statement.\n\nThe problem statement will be used to gain project support and approval from stakeholders. As such, it must be action-oriented. More importantly, the problem statement must be written clearly and accurately in order to deliver successful results. A poorly crafted or incorrect problem statement will lead to a faulty solution, as well as wasted time, money, and resources.\n\nThere are several basic elements that can be built into every problem statement to decrease the risk of project failure. First, the problem statement must focus on the end user. A common mistake is focusing on “how” a problem will be solved rather than the current gap. Second, the problem statement shouldn’t be too broad. A benefit of using the “5 Why’s” approach is that it avoids over-simplicity by providing the details needed for understanding the problem and developing an appropriate solution. Finally, the problem statement shouldn’t be too narrow. Solution-bias stifles the creativity that arises while brainstorming a solution, which may result in a less-than-optimal experience for the user.\n\nIt is useful to design and follow a specific format when writing a problem statement. While there are several options for doing this, the following is a simple and straightforward template often used in Business Analysis to maintain focus on defining the problem.\n\n\nFollowing this format will result in a workable document that can be used by all parties to understand the problem and elicit requirements that will lead to a winning solution.\n\nProblem statements can vary in length, depending on the complexity of the problem. The following is an example of a simple problem statement for the creation of a Single Sign On capability:\n\nIDEAL\n\nIdeally our users would be able sign into their laptops and then automatically have access to all of the applications they need to use.\n\nREALITY\n\nIn reality we use at least three applications every day to accomplish our work. Each application is protected by a password with different requirements for username & password length. Passwords also expire at different times.\n\nCONSEQUENCES\n\n\nPROPOSAL\n\nHave S/W Dev, Network Administration and business stakeholders collaborate to evaluate potential solutions for a Single Sign On capability.\n"}
{"id": "43852889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43852889", "title": "Repair kit", "text": "Repair kit\n\nA repair kit or service kit is a set of items used to repair a device, commonly comprising both tools and spare parts. Many kits are designed for vehicles, such as cars, boats, airplanes, motorbikes, and bicycles, and may be kept with the vehicle in order to make on-the-spot repairs. Some are considered essential safety equipment, and may be included survival kits. In the military, personnel crossing large water bodies in aircraft may be equipped with a raft and raft repair kit. Other kits, such as those for watch repair or specific engine components, are used by professionals. Depending on the type, a repair kits may be included when buying a product, or may be purchased separately.\n\nRoad vehicles often include basic tools and spare parts which commonly fail. A bicycle repair kit, for example, normally contains tools as well as patches and glue to repair a punctured tire. Other kits that include patches and glue are used to fix holes in fabric items such as inflatable boats and tents.\n\nWatercraft normally contain both safety equipment and repair kits as part of their emergency equipment.\n\nSome automobiles, such as the Mitsubishi i-MiEV, have an optional repair kit available. The Mercedes-Benz OM604 engine has an optional repair kit to help replace seals. The 1905 Gale Model A came with a repair kit.\n\nIn aerospace, kits have been developed for repairing the thermal protection tiles on the Space Shuttle and to fix space suits.\nProfessionals who repair and maintain electronic equipment may have a kit containing a soldering iron, wire, and components such as transistors and resistors.\n\nIn medicine, a repair kit consisting of a plug and plastic mesh may be used during inguinal hernia surgery.\n\nA particular trade may use a repair kit as part of normal work, such as in watch repair and at automobile repair shops.\n\nA wide variety of tools and replacement parts may be included in a repair kit. Some common examples include screwdriver, spare tire, jumper cable, and duct tape.\n\n"}
{"id": "32649239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32649239", "title": "Resource (biology)", "text": "Resource (biology)\n\nIn Biology and Ecology, a resource is a substance or object in the environment required by an organism for normal growth, maintenance, and reproduction. Resources can be consumed by one organism and, as a result, become unavailable to another organism. For plants key resources are light, nutrients, water, and place to grow. For animals key resources are food, water, and territory. \n\nTerrestrial plants require particular resources for photosynthesis and to complete their life cycle of germination, growth, reproduction, and dispersal: \n\nAnimals resources particular resources for metabolism and to complete their life cycle of gestation, birth, growth, and reproduction:\n\n\nResource availability plays a central role in ecological processes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36045906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36045906", "title": "Self-made man", "text": "Self-made man\n\nA \"self-made man\" (later expanded to include \"self-made women\") is a classic phrase first coined on February 2, 1832 by United States senator Henry Clay who referred to the self-made man in the United States senate, to describe individuals in the manufacturing sector whose success lay within the individuals themselves, not with outside conditions. Benjamin Franklin, one of the Founding Fathers of the United States, has been described as the greatest exemplar of the self-made man. Inspired by Franklin's autobiography, Frederick Douglass developed the concept of the self-made man in a series of lectures that spanned decades starting in 1859. Originally, the term referred to an individual who arises from a poor or otherwise disadvantaged background to eminence in financial, political or other areas by nurturing qualities, such as perseverance and hard work, as opposed to achieving these goals through inherited fortune, family connections, or other privileges. By the mid-1950s, success in the United States generally implied \"business success\".\n\nAccording to the 2017 \"World Ultra Wealth Report\" by research company Wealth-X, self-made individuals, mainly men, have \"largely driven\" global \"wealth creation\" from 1997 through 2017. The report noted that while there are an increasing number of women who are designated as high net worth, most inherited their wealth and only a small percentage sourced their wealth as self-made.\n\nIn the intellectual and cultural history of the United States, the idea of the self-made man as an archetype or cultural ideal has been criticized by some as being a myth or a cult.\n\nBenjamin Franklin, one of the Founding Fathers of the United States, has been described as \"undoubtedly the original self-made man.\" and the greatest exemplar of the \"self-made man\". Both the American Dream and the self-made man concepts are inextricably linked and are rooted in American history. Franklin's autobiography was described by the editor of the 1916 edition, as the \"most remarkable of all the remarkable histories of our self-made men\". His autobiography, which was dedicated to his son William Franklin, with the first chapter based on a 1771 letter to William, was used as illustrative of the journey of the self-made man in the eighteenth century in Colonial United States. Franklin's introduced the archetypal self-made man through his own life story in which in spite of all odds he overcame his low and humble origins and inherited social position—his father was candle-maker—to re-invent himself through self-improvement based on a set of strong moral values such as \"industry, economy, and perseverance\" thereby attaining \"eminence\" in the classic rags to riches narrative. Franklin's maxims as published in his \"Autobiography\" provide others, specifically his own son, with strategies for attaining status in the United States, described as a \"land of unequaled opportunity\" in the last quarter of the 18th century.\n\nIn his 1954 book entitled \"The Self-Made Man in America: The Myth of Rags to Riches\", Irvin G. Wyllie described how on February 2, 1832 Henry Clay had \"coined the phrase 'self-made men'\" during his speech to the United States Senate. Clay used the classic phrase to describe the \"autonomy of our manufacturers ... in behalf of a paternalistic tariff\" and the \"irony has persisted throughout the history of the idea of self-help\".\n\nThe essential doctrine behind the self-made man is that success lies within the person himself and not with outside conditions. Wyllie investigated intellectual history, \"not the history of a great abstraction but the saga of an idea that had power among the people.\" To Wyllie, success in the United States by the mid-1950s, generally implied \"business success.\"\n\nFranklin and Frederick Douglass, describe the \"self-made man in similar language: \"Being possessionless and unencumbered by authority is the necessary beginning state for the potential self-made man. One cannot be “made” by the help of a father, teacher, mentor, etc.…, but must rise by one’s own grit, determination, discipline, and opportunism. The irony is that they have made themselves free from bounds and possessions, in a sense impoverished, so that they can then begin to acquire power and wealth on their own. The key is to acquire those possessions and power without help. The goal, then, is not to become famous or wealthy in the literal sense, but to participate in something precise and mythical.\"\n\nFrederick Douglass developed the concepts in a series of lectures \"Self-Made Men\" from 1859 onward, for example 1895, which were published and archived in \"The Frederick Douglass Papers at the Library of Congress\". In his 1872 lecture Douglass noted that there were \"no such men as self-made men. That term implies an individual independence of the past and present which can never exist...Our best and most valued acquisitions have been obtained either from our contemporaries or from those who have preceded us in the field of thought and discovery. We have all either begged, borrowed or stolen. We have reaped where others have sown, and that which others have strown, we have gathered.\" However, he then provided one of his most detailed descriptions of the self-made man,\n\nF. W. Pine wrote in his introduction of the 1916 publication of \"The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin\", that Franklin's biography provided the \"most remarkable of all the remarkable histories of our self-made men\" with Franklin as the greatest exemplar of the \"self-made man\".\nAbraham Lincoln, Frederick Douglass, P. T. Barnum, Booker T. Washington, and Andrew Carnegie have also been described as self-made men. Both Carnegie and Lee Iacocca acknowledge that their own autobiographies were influenced by Franklin's. In theirs, both Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan described their own origins as somewhat disadvantaged to reflect the narrative of self-made men. Blumenthal began his 2016 biography of Lincoln—\"A Self-Made Man\"—with the phrase, \"I used to be a slave\", referring to Lincoln's claim in 1856 that his \"domineering and uneducated father\" \"exploited\" young Lincoln by \"renting\" him out to \"rural neighbors in Indiana.\" Following his escape from servitude, Lincoln re-invented himself. Lincoln was inspired by Franklin's \"Autobiography\".\n\nIn an 1893 article in a railway magazine, Eugene V. Debs offered Andrew Johnson (18081875), the 17th President of the United States, Henry Wilson (1812–1875) was the 18th Vice President of the United States (1873–75), Daniel Webster(17821852) who served twice as United States Secretary of State, Edward Everett, and Rufus Choate as exemplary nineteenth-century self-made men. Debs contrasted the successful self-made men to those whose \"illiteracy, stupidity, lack of ambition, forever keeps them at the bottom...[who] prefer pool to school, and choose to hammer coal and shovel it into a fire-box rather than employ their leisure in learning what they must know if they expect to rise.\" He calls on them to \"resolve upon a change of habits — renounce follies and vices, obtain elementary books and study.\"\n\nIn John G. Cawelti's 1965 book entitled \"Apostles of the self-made man\", he listed Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Horatio Alger, and John Dewey as individuals \"who either played a major role in shaping the success ideal or were associate with it in the public mind.\"\n\nFrank Giuffrida's parents were Sicilian immigrants who lived in Lawrence, Massachusetts. He began to work before he completed high school to run the family butcher shop when his father died. He opened the Hilltop Steakhouse after he sold the family store. His innovative strategy was to offer large size portions in a large scale restaurant spaces, making up for the extra cost of generous portions by the economy of scale. According to the \"New York Times\", the \"Hilltop exceeded $27 million gross\" in 1987.\n\nIn the field of modern art, Arshile Gorky has been described as a self-made man who rose from \"a dark, rich peasant culture\" to prominence among \"New York modern artists\" through his \"self-taught erudition and aggressive principles.\" In the restaurant business Frank Giuffrida, the owner and manager of the Hilltop Steakhouse which opened in Saugus 1961 and became the biggest restaurant in the United States by the 1980s, is described as self-made man in the \"Slate\" article.\n\nHoratio Alger Jr.'s six-volume Ragged Dick Series which began with the first full-length novel, \"Ragged Dick\" published in May 1868, a \"Bildungsroman\" \"whose name became synonymous with the rags-to-riches narrative\", where young Dick eventually became the successful and distinguished Richard Hunter.\n\nIn F. Scott Fitzgerald's magnum opus The Great Gatsby, describes the downfall of the \"archetypal, if somewhat misguided\" \"socially ambitious self-made man\" Jay Gatsby who rose from \"an obscure and impoverished Midwestern childhood to become a wealthy and sought-after center of Long Island society\". Gatsby contrasts with Ben Franklin and the characters in Horatio Alger Jr. novels, as successful self-made men. His story serves as a cautionary tale regarding the American Dream where \"an unhappy fate is inevitable for the poor and striving individual, and the rich are allowed to continue without penalty their careless treatment of others' lives.\"\n\nAccording to the 2017 \"World Ultra Wealth Report\" by research company Wealth-X, \"wealth creation\" from 1997 through 2017 has been \"driven largely by self-made individuals\", mainly men. According to the report, ultra high-net-worth individuals (UHNWI), those who have a net worth of at least US$30 million, were \"predominantly self-made\" having \"earned their fortunes\". Two-thirds of the UHNWI sourced \"their wealth from their own efforts\" such as \"fruitful business ventures or successful investments.\" Of the 226,450 UHNWIs, 66% were self-made; of the 7,200 UHNW millennials (born between 1980–1995), 66% were self-made; of the 28,985 UHNW women, 45% were self-made; of the 33,290 UHNWI from emerging Asia (excluding Japan, Singapore and Hong Kong), 68% were self-made; and of the 34,961 UHNW Ivy League individuals, 75% were self-made.\n\nIn his 2000 book \"Creating the Modern Man\", cultural historian Tom Pendergast traced the way in which the concept of the self-made man was referenced in men's magazines from 1900 through 1950. Pendergast divided masculinity into only two periods: Victorian, which was \"based on property-ownership and family\", and \"post-Victorian\", which was \"based on a cult of personality, self-improvement, and narcissism\". He described the \"ideal Victorian man\" as a \"property owning man of character who believed in honesty, integrity, self-restraint, and duty to God, country, and family\". The post-Victorian image of the self-made man was crucial to Pendergast's study. He revealed how through magazines men \"were encouraged to form their identities around an ideology of hard work.\"\n\nIn September 2011, Elizabeth Warren challenged the concept of the self-made man in a video that went viral, garnering over one million views on YouTube:\n\n"}
{"id": "18490868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18490868", "title": "Sexual script theory", "text": "Sexual script theory\n\nThe idea of sexual script brings a new metaphor and imagery for understanding human sexual activity as social and learned interactions. The concept was introduced by sociologists John H. Gagnon and William Simon in their 1973 book \"Sexual Conduct\". The idea highlights three levels of scripting: cultural/historical, social/interactive and personal/intrapsychic. It draws from a range of theories including symbolic interactionism, discourse theory and feminism. The theory of sexual scripting brings sociological, cultural, anthropological, historical and social psychological tools to the study of human sexualities. Whereas human sexuality is usually seen as the province of the biologist and the clinician, scripting helps research and analysis to understand sexualities as less biological and more cultural, historical and social.\n\nSexual scripting suggests the importance of meanings and symbols in human sexuality. According to Gagnon and Simon, scripts can be layered through three dimensions: 'cultural scenarios', 'interpersonal scenarios', and 'intrapsychic scenarios'. Sexual feeling does not simply happen from within the body, but needs meanings and symbols which provide cues and clues to enable sexualities to develop. Cultural scenarios are linked to different historical periods and social change; scripts can be shown to change with the arrival of HIV/AIDS in the 1980s, for example (Epstein, Lauman ...). Interpersonal scenarios are linked to encounters and interactions (for example in rape, as illustrated in the early work of Stevi Jackson). And intra-psychic scenarios indicate the ways in which personal sexual 'turn ons' and imageries grow. Sexual scripts can be seen as providing guidelines for appropriate sexual behaviour and sexual encounters, as sexual behaviour and encounters are learned through culture and others in interactions. It can be linked to theories of sexual desire but is critical of the tendency to stress the purely biological aspects of desire.\n\nDrawing upon conversational analysis, sexual encounters are considered to be scripted if the parties involved use any of these five linguistic devices:\nResearch on sexual scripts and sexual script theory have concluded that sexual scripts are organised through gender, class, ethnicity and other social vectors.\n\nSexual script theory and its application in clinical practice are founded on the undeniable reality that the subjective understandings of each person about his or her sexuality (and called a sexual script) substantively determine that person's choice of sexual actions and the subsequent qualitative experiencing of those sexual acts. Scripts refer to social functions. They dictate what one should be doing at a particular time and in a particular place if one is to play the role characteristically associated with that script. There may be several people involved in the same situation, but they may differ in the roles that they have been given or have chosen to enact. Script theory is a form of social scripting theory which has been defined clearly by Michael W. Wiederman who says, \"Social scripting theory points to the fact that much of sexual behavior seems to follow a script. Similar to scripts that stage actors use to guide their behavior, social scripts instruct members of a society as to appropriate behavior and the meanings to attach to certain behaviors.\" Social scripting theory directly relates to sexual scripts as it is just a specified example regarding sexual encounters and sexual behavior in social context. Social theory is also a useful resource in determining the construction of social scripts.\n\nThe theory is linked to the wider development of social constructionism on the socially created nature of social life. Social construction is important to sexual script because sexual scripts can come from how a child is raised through the beliefs of social construction. In other words, women are to be subjected to male gaze in order to be a part of the social construction system and maintain social norms of a long living society.\n\nSexuality is the behavior of human beings with regard to the activities that causes or is associated with sexual arousal. It is influenced by the genetically inherited sexual response patterns, societal attitudes toward sex, and each individual's upbringing. \"Physiology sets only very broad limits on human sexuality; most of the enormous variation found among humans results from learning and conditioning. What is deviant in one society may be normal in another. Sexuality covers gender identity, sexual orientation, and actual practices, as well as one's acceptance of these aspects of one's personality, which may be more important than their specifics.\"\n\nA sexual norm can be an individual or a social norm, which is a rule that is socially enforced. Norms affect a wide variety of human behavior.\nSocial norms regarding sexuality are present in most cultures. For example, the norm in most cultures consists of heterosexual acts between married individuals. Sexual norms are constantly changing and normal sexual behavior is a spectrum and cannot be rigidly defined. \nDeviance from normal sexual behavior is common and can be classified in several ways. If non-restrictive sexual norms are regarded positively they may be called \"sexual freedom\", \"sexual liberation\", or \"free love\". If regarded negatively they may be called \"sexual license\" or \"licentiousness\". Restrictive behavior when judged negatively is called \"sexual oppression\"; if judged positively they are called \"chastity\", \"sexual restraint\", The Maritial Effect, or \"sexual decency\".\nIn the West, sexual normality can be defined as any sexual practice which does not involve sexual perversions. There has been a liberalization in attitudes which has resulted in the legalization of homosexuality in many countries. There is a tendency in Western countries toward serial monogamy as a normal heterosexual lifestyle.\n\nSociologists believe that emotion emerges in relation to dominant sexual scripts and sexual identity. Sexual script is also believed to have different scripts for males and females in relation to sexual activity. In sexual script's link to sexual activity; sexuality, sexual norms, social construction and gender roles all play a part in what makes sexual script differ between males and females.\n\nGender schema theory also plays a part in sexual script because studies show that males and females interact in different ways, even from a young age. In 1991, Martha Boston and Gary Levy found that through their research observations, children, primarily boys, were better with being able to sequence own-sex rather than other-sex scripts. \"As well as acquiring knowledge about the sex-role stereotypes of their culture, young children also develop sex-typed attitudes, preferences, and behaviors that pervade many aspects of their lives.\"\n\nFrom an early age men are often raised to embrace their sexuality while women are usually brought up to suppress it. Anatomically, boys have the benefit (or curse) of genitals that are more easily viewed and handled by their owners. The young boy is taught to hold onto his penis to urinate and to handle it for purposes of washing. Conversely, the young girl is not taught to touch her clitoris. She is taught to wipe care- fully after urination so as not to contract an infection by transferring bacteria from her rectum to her vagina. The end result? Boys and girls are given two subtly different sets of messages regarding their own genitals. Boys readily discover that their genitals feel good when handled and are not necessarily any “dirtier” than other parts of their body that they can see. Girls readily learn that their genitals are difficult, if not impossible, for them to see and that there are “dirty” aspects that require appropriate precautionary measures. Similarly, gender roles may encourage sexual exploration more for boys than for girls.\n\nA double standard exists in the traditional heterosexual sexual script. It endorses different sexual behavior for women and men, whereby women are expected to confine sexual behavior to the context of a committed relationship and men are expected to engage in sexual behavior in all kinds of relationships. Young adult men who have not realized that their female peers hold a different set of sexual scripts are often perplexed. At a time when young adults have finally gained a marked increase in privacy from family (such as going away to college or getting married), it often seems obvious to young men that sexual activity should “naturally” occur now that a major barrier has been overcome. Females who take such a view run the risk of being labeled deviant. To be too sexually interested or aggressive, especially outside the context of an intimate relationship, implies masculinity, or desperation, or some other flaw.\n\nEllen van Oost uses the concept of gender script \"to illustrate the ways that the design of technological artifacts are affected by the gender assumptions held about their 'envisioned users.'\" Drawing from Akrich's argument that, \"like a film script, technical objects define a framework of action together with the actors and the space in which they are supposed to act,\" van Oost extends the script approach to include the gender aspects of technological innovation. van Oost looks at the ways electric shavers are gendered for men and women starting in the late 1920s, including the \"cigar\" model for men and the \"lipstick model for women.\" van Oost also argues that the development of the electric razor systematically constructs a gender script of technological incompetence as feminine, and \"inhibits the ability of women to see themselves as interested in technology and as technologically competent, whereas the genderscript of [electric razors \"for men\"] invites men to see themselves that way. In other words: [electric razors] not only [produce] razors but also gender.\"\n\nThe theory has now been applied to a wide range of areas including:\n\n"}
{"id": "39769309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39769309", "title": "Shauna Shapiro", "text": "Shauna Shapiro\n\nShauna L. Shapiro is a speaker, author and Professor of Psychology at Santa Clara University known for her work on mindfulness. Recently featured at TedX with her talk \"The Power of Mindfulness: What You Practice Grows Stronger\".\n\nShapiro graduated summa cum laude from Duke University, and received a Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from the University of Arizona. She completed a postdoctoral fellowship at the VA Palo Alto Health Care System She has received extensive professional training in mindfulness-based cognitive therapy and mindfulness based stress reduction, as well as studied mindfulness meditation in monasteries in Nepal and Thailand.\n\nShapiro is a speaker, author and tenured Professor at Santa Clara University's graduate department of Counseling Psychology. Shapiro is also faculty at the Esalen Institute, and adjunct faculty at Dr. Andrew Weil's Program of Integrative Medicine at the University of Arizona Medical Center (2000-2004).\n\nShapiro's research and clinical work focus on the applications of mindfulness to developing greater health and well being. Her work has addressed the effects of mindfulness on the individual, as well as its implications at the global level. Shapiro's extensive clinical research has investigated the effects of mindfulness training across a wide array of populations, examining the impact of mindfulness in medicine, psychology, education, business and law.\n\nShapiro has published over 150 peer-reviewed journal articles and book chapters. Additionally, Shapiro (along with Linda E. Carlson) is the co-author of the critically acclaimed texts \"The Art and Science of Mindfulness: Integrating Mindfulness into Psychology and the Helping Professions\" and \"Mindful Discipline: A Loving Approach to Setting Limits and Raising an Emotionally Intelligent Child.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1743598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1743598", "title": "Sophia (wisdom)", "text": "Sophia (wisdom)\n\nSophia ( \"sophía\" \"wisdom\") is a central idea in Hellenistic philosophy and religion, Platonism, Gnosticism, and Christian theology. Originally carrying a meaning of \"cleverness, skill\", the later meaning of the term, close to the meaning of \"Phronesis\" (\"wisdom, intelligence\"), was significantly shaped by the term \"philosophy\" (\"love of \"sophia\"\") as used by Plato.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox and the Catholic churches, Holy Wisdom ( \"Hagía Sophía\") is an expression for God the Son (Jesus) in the Trinity (as in the dedication of the church of Hagia Sophia in Constantinople) and, rarely, for the Holy Spirit.\n\nReferences to \"Sophia\" in Koine Greek translations of the Hebrew Bible translate to the Hebrew term \"Chokhmah\".\n\nThe Ancient Greek word \"sophia\" (, ) is the abstract noun of (), which variously translates to \"clever, skillful, intelligent, wise\". These words share the same Proto-Indo-European root as the Latin verb (), whence . The noun as \"skill in handicraft and art\" is Homeric and in Pindar is used to describe both Hephaestos and Athena.\n\nBefore Plato, the term for \"sound judgement, intelligence, practical wisdom\" and so on, such qualities as are ascribed to the Seven Sages of Greece, was \"phronesis\" (, ), from \"phren\" (, , ), while \"sophia\" referred to technical skill. \n\nThe term \"philosophia\" (, , ) was primarily used after the time of Plato, following his teacher Socrates, though it has been said that Pythagoras was the first to call himself a philosopher. This understanding of \"philosophia\" permeates Plato's dialogues, especially the \"Republic\". In that work, the leaders of the proposed utopia are to be philosopher kings: rulers who are lovers of wisdom. According to Plato in \"Apology\", Socrates himself was dubbed \"the wisest [, ] man of Greece\" by the Pythian Oracle. Socrates defends this verdict in \"Apology\" to the effect that he, at least, knows that he knows nothing. Socratic skepticism is contrasted with the approach of the sophists, who are attacked in \"Gorgias\" for relying merely on eloquence. Cicero in later criticized Plato for his separation of wisdom from eloquence. \"Sophia\" is named as one of the four cardinal virtues (in place of \"phronesis\") in Plato's \"Protagoras\".\n\nPhilo, a Hellenized Jew writing in Alexandria, attempted to harmonize Platonic philosophy and Jewish scripture. Also influenced by Stoic philosophical concepts, he used the Koine term \"logos\" (, ) for the role and function of Wisdom, a concept later adapted by the author of the Gospel of John in the opening verses and applied to Jesus as the Word (Logos) of God the Father.\n\nIn Gnosticism, Sophia is a feminine figure, analogous to the soul, but also simultaneously one of the emanations of the Monad. Gnostics held that she was the syzygy of Jesus (i.e. the Bride of Christ) and was the Holy Spirit of the Trinity. She is occasionally referred to by the Hebrew equivalent of (; , ) and as ().\n\nChristian theology received the Old Testament personification of Divine Wisdom (Septuagint \"Sophia\", Vulgate \"Sapientia\"). The connection of Divine Wisdom to the concept of the Logos resulted in the interpretation of \"Holy Wisdom\" (\"Hagia Sophia\") as an aspect of Christ the Logos.\nThe expression itself is not found in the New Testament, even though passages in the Pauline epistles equate Christ with the \"wisdom of God\" (). The clearest form of the identification of Divine Wisdom with Christ comes in 1 Corinthians 1:17-2:13. In 1 Cor. 2:7, Paul speaks of the Wisdom of God as a mystery which was \"ordained before the world unto our glory\". \n\nFollowing 1 Corinthians, the Church Fathers named Christ as \"Wisdom of God\".\nTherefore, when rebutting claims about Christ's ignorance, Gregory of Nazianzus insisted that, inasmuch as he was divine, Christ knew everything: \"How can he be ignorant of anything that is, when he is Wisdom, the maker of the worlds, who brings all things to fulfilment and recreates all things, who is the end of all that has come into being?\" (\"Orationes\", 30.15). Irenaeus represents another, minor patristic tradition which identified the Spirit of God, and not Christ himself, as \"Wisdom\" (\"Adversus haereses\", 4.20.1–3; cf. 3.24.2; 4.7.3; 4.20.3). He could appeal to Paul's teaching about wisdom being one of the gifts of the Holy Spirit (1 Cor. 12:8). However, the majority applied to Christ the title/name of \"Wisdom\". \nConstantine the Great set a pattern for Eastern Christians by dedicating a church to Christ as the personification of Divine Wisdom. In Constantinople, under Justinian I, the Hagia Sophia (\"Holy Wisdom\") was rebuilt, consecrated in 538, and became a model for many other Byzantine churches. \nIn the Latin Church, however, \"the Word\" or \"Logos\" came through more clearly than \"the Wisdom\" of God as a central, high title of Christ. \n\nIn the theology of the Eastern Orthodox Church, Holy Wisdom is understood as the Divine Logos who became incarnate as Jesus; this belief being sometimes also expressed in some Eastern Orthodox icons. In the Divine Liturgy of the Orthodox Church, the exclamation \"Sophia!\" or in English \"Wisdom!\" will be proclaimed by the deacon or priest at certain moments, especially before the reading of scripture, to draw the congregation's attention to sacred teaching.\n\nThere is a hagiographical tradition, dating to the late sixth century, of a Saint Sophia and her three daughters, Saints Faith, Hope and Charity. This has been taken as the veneration of allegorical figures from an early time, and the group of saints has become popular in Russian Orthodox iconography as such (the names of the daughters rendered as ). The veneration of the three saints named for the three theological virtues probably arose in the 6th century.\n\nThe Christological identification of Christ the Logos with Divine Wisdom (\"Hagia Sophia\") is strongly represented in the iconographic tradition of the Russian Orthodox Church. A type of icon of the Theotokos is \"Wisdom hath builded Her house\" (), a quote from Proverbs 9:1 (\"Wisdom hath builded her house, she hath hewn out her seven pillars\") interpreted as prefiguring the incarnation, with the Theotokos being the \"house\" chosen by the \"hypostatic Wisdom\" (i.e. \"Wisdom\" as a person of the Trinity).\n\nIn Russian Orthodox mysticism, \"Sophia\" became increasingly indistinguishable from the person of the \"Theotokos\" (rather than Christ), to the point of the implication of the \"Theotokos\" as a \"fourth person of the Trinity\".\n\nSuch interpretations became popular in the late nineteenth to early twentienth century, forwarded by authors such as Vladimir Solovyov, Pavel Florensky, Nikolai Berdyaev, and Sergei Bulgakov.\nBulgakov's theology, known as \"Sophianism\", presented Divine Wisdom as \"consubstantiality of the Holy Trinity\", operating as the aspect of consubstantiality (ousia or physis, substantia or natura) or \"hypostaticity\" of the Trinity of the three hypostases, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, \"which safeguards the unity of the Holy Trinity\". It was the topic of a highly political controversy in the early 1930s and was condemned as heretical \nin 1935.online [ Intratext.com]</ref>\n\nWithin the Protestant tradition in England, Jane Leade, seventeenth-century Christian mystic, Universalist, and founder of the Philadelphian Society, wrote copious descriptions of her visions and dialogues with the \"Virgin Sophia\" who, she said, revealed to her the spiritual workings of the Universe.\nLeade was hugely influenced by the theosophical writings of sixteenth century German Christian mystic Jakob Böhme, who also speaks of the Sophia in works such as \"The Way to Christ\" (1624). Jakob Böhme was very influential to a number of Christian mystics and religious leaders, including George Rapp and the Harmony Society.\n\n\"Sophia\" is not a \"goddess\" in classical Greek tradition; Greek goddesses associated with wisdom are Metis and Athena (Latin Minerva). By the Roman Empire, it became common to depict the cardinal virtues and other abstract ideals, as female allegories. Thus, in the Library of Celsus in Ephesus, built in the 2nd century, there are four statues of female allegories, depicting wisdom (Sophia), knowledge (Episteme), intelligence (Ennoia) and valour (Arete). In the same period, \"Sophia\" assumes aspects of a goddess or angelic power in Gnosticism.\n\nIn Christian iconography, Holy Wisdom or \"Hagia Sophia\" was depicted as a female allegory from the medieval period. In Western (Latin) tradition, she appears as a crowned virgin; in Russian Orthodox tradition, she has a more supernatural aspect of a crowned woman with wings in a glowing red colour.\nThe virgin martyrs Faith Hope and Charity with their mother Sophia are depicted as three small girls standing in front of their mother in widow's dress.\n\n\"Allegory of Wisdom and Strength\" is a painting by Paolo Veronese, created circa 1565 in Venice. It is a large-scale allegorical painting depicting Divine Wisdom personified on the left and Hercules, representing Strength and earthly concerns, on the right.\n\nA goddess \"Sophia\" was introduced into Anthroposophy by its founder, Rudolf Steiner, in his book \"The Goddess: From Natura to Divine Sophia\" and a later compilation of his writings titled \"Isis Mary Sophia.\" Sophia also figures prominently in Theosophy, a spiritual movement which Anthroposophy was closely related to. Helena Blavatsky, the founder of Theosophy, described it in her essay \"What is Theosophy?\" as an esoteric wisdom doctrine, and said that the \"Wisdom\" referred to was \"an emanation of the Divine principle\" typified by \"...some goddesses—Metis, Neitha, Athena, the Gnostic Sophia...\"\n\nSince the 1970s, Sophia has also been invoked as a goddess in Dianic Wicca and related currents of feminist spirituality.\n\nThe 1979 installation artwork \"The Dinner Party\" features a place setting for Sophia.\n\nThere is a monumental sculpture of Holy Wisdom depicted as a \"goddess\" in Sofia, the capital of Bulgaria (the city itself is named after Saint Sofia Church). The sculpture was erected in 2000 to replace a statue of Lenin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50589", "title": "Spanking", "text": "Spanking\n\nSpanking is a common form of corporal punishment involving the act of striking the buttocks of another person to cause physical pain, generally with an open hand. More severe forms of spanking, such as switching, paddling, belting, caning, whipping, and birching, involve the use of an object instead of a hand.\n\nParents commonly spank children or adolescents in response to undesired behavior. Boys are more frequently spanked than girls, both at home and in school. Some countries have outlawed the spanking of children in every setting, including homes, schools, and penal institutions, but most allow it when done by a parent or guardian.\n\nIn North America, the word \"spanking\" has often been used as a synonym for an official paddling in school, and sometimes even as a euphemism for the formal corporal punishment of adults in an institution.\n\nIn British English, most dictionaries define \"spanking\" as being given only with the open hand.\n\nIn American English, dictionaries define spanking as being administered with either the open hand or an implement such as a paddle. Thus, the standard form of corporal punishment in US schools (use of a paddle) is often referred to as a \"spanking\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand, the word \"smacking\" is generally used in preference to \"spanking\" when describing striking with an open hand, rather than with an implement. Whereas a spanking is invariably administered to the bottom, a \"smacking\" is less specific and may refer to slapping the child's hands, arms or legs as well as its bottom.\n\nParents commonly spank their children as a form of corporal punishment in the United States. It is normally done with one or more slaps on the child's buttocks with a bare hand, although, not uncommonly, various objects are used to spank children. Historically, boys have been spanked more than girls. In the United States, the spanking of infants is common, with toddler-age children being spanked the most. The main reasons parents give for spanking children are to make children more compliant and to promote better behavior, especially to put a stop to children's aggressive behaviors.\n\nHowever, research has indicated that spanking (or any other form of corporal punishment), tends to have the opposite effect. Children who are physically punished more often tend to obey parents less with time, and to develop more aggressive behaviors, including toward other children. This increase in aggressive behavior is thought to reflect the child's perception that hitting is the way to deal with anger and frustration. There are also a number of documented adverse physical, mental, and emotional effects of spanking and other forms of corporal punishment, including various physical injuries, increased anxiety, depression, and antisocial behavior. Children who were spanked during childhood are more likely to abuse their own children and spouse.\n\nThe American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) states no child under the age of two should be spanked. Additionally, the AAP recommends that primary care providers (e.g., pediatricians and family medicine physicians) begin to discuss parents' discipline methods no later than 9 months of age and consider initiating such discussions by age 3–4 months. By 8 months of age, 5% of parents report spanking and 5% report starting to spank by age 3 months. Primary care providers may recommend that a parent never spank their child; however, since spanking is a highly prevalent form of child discipline, this approach may lead parents to disregard a health care professional's advice and interfere with educational efforts to discuss alternative forms of discipline.\n\nAlthough parents and other advocates of spanking often claim that spanking is necessary to promote child discipline, studies have shown that parents tend to apply physical punishment inconsistently and tend to spank more often when they are angry or under stress. The use of corporal punishment by parents increases the likelihood that children will suffer physical abuse, and most documented cases of physical abuse in Canada and the United States begin as disciplinary spankings. If a child is frequently spanked, this form of corporal punishment tends to become less effective at modifying behavior over time (also known as extinction). In response to decreased effectiveness of spanking, some parents increase the frequency or severity of spanking or use an object.\n\nThere are many effective alternatives to spanking and other forms of corporal punishment. For example, such techniques include time-ins (increasing attention, praise, and special time to promote desired behaviors), time outs (taking a break from escalating misbehavior), positive reinforcement (rewarding desirable behavior (e.g., with a star, sticker, or treat)), non-physical negative reinforcement (an unpleasant consequence follows misbehavior (e.g., replying with a sharp \"no\" expressing disapproval for a specific action or taking away a privilege)), passive inattention (ignoring low-level misbehaviors and prioritizing attention for more significant forms of misbehavior appropriate for a child's developmental level), and avoidance (avoid the opportunity for the misbehavior to occur and thus the need for corrective discipline).\n\nCorporal punishment, usually delivered with an implement (such as a paddle or cane) rather than with the open hand, used to be a common form of school discipline in many countries, but it is now banned in most of the Western World.\n\nCorporal punishment, such as caning, remains a common form of discipline in schools in several Asian and African countries, even in countries in which this practice has been deemed illegal such as India and South Africa. In these cultures it is referred to as \"caning\" and not \"spanking.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States in 1977 held that the paddling of school students was not \"per se\" unlawful. However, 31 states have now banned paddling in public schools. It is still common in some schools in the South, and more than 167,000 students were paddled in the 2011-2012 school year in American public schools. Students can be physically punished from kindergarten to the end of high school, meaning that even adults who have reached the age of majority are sometimes spanked by school officials.\n\nMen spanking their wives and girlfriends was often seen as an acceptable form of domestic discipline in the early 20th century as a way to correct behavior, maintain male dominance, and enforce gender norms. It was a common trope in American films. In the early 21st century, adherents of a small subculture known as Christian domestic discipline rely on a literalist interpretation of the Bible to justify spanking as a form of punishment of women by their husbands. Critics describe such practices as a form of domestic abuse.\n\nThere are some rituals or traditions which involve spanking. For example, on the first day of the lunar Chinese new year holidays, a week-long 'Spring Festival', the most important festival for Chinese people all over the world, thousands of Chinese visit the Taoist \"Dong Lung Gong\" temple in Tungkang to go through the century-old ritual to get rid of bad luck. Men traditionally receive spankings and women get whipped, with the number of strokes to be administered (always lightly) by the temple staff being decided in either case by the god Wang Ye and by burning incense and tossing two pieces of wood, after which all go home happily, believing their luck will improve.\n\nOn Easter Monday, there is a Slavic tradition of hitting girls and young ladies with woven willow switches (Czech: \"pomlázka\"; Slovak: \"korbáč\") and dousing them with water.\n\nIn Slovenia, there is a jocular tradition that anyone who succeeds in climbing to the top of Mount Triglav receives a spanking or birching.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "4912935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4912935", "title": "Stop Murder Music", "text": "Stop Murder Music\n\nStop Murder Music is a campaign to oppose Caribbean artists that produce music with lyrics alleged to glorify murder of homosexual men. The campaign was mainly against Jamaican musicians, primarily dancehall and ragga artists such as Buju Banton, Bounty Killer, and the Bobo Ashanti Rastafarians Sizzla and Capleton. \n\nThe campaign accuses these artists of promoting violence against LGBT people through the lyrics in their music and attempts to stop this. Stop Murder Music is jointly run by OutRage!, the Black Gay Men's Advisory Group, and J-Flag. The term was coined by British gay rights activist Peter Tatchell in the mid-1990s.\n\nThe Reggae Compassionate Act was an agreement signed in 2007 by artists including Beenie Man, Capleton, and Sizzla. It has now been somewhat discredited as some artists have felt it was badly worded, while others have denied signing it. Others (including Elephant Man, T.O.K., Bounty Killa, and Vybz Kartel) have simply refused to sign it.\n\nStop Murder Music (Canada) is an independent branch of the organization in Canada, founded by Akim Adé Larcher, after learning at a local West Indian store about a Canadian Tour by Elephant Man. Larcher, a Canadian/Saint Lucian, brought together over 20 organizations from the African and Caribbean communities in Canada to form the group.\nDespite not causing any artists to be denied entry visas, the campaign was able to get concert venues cancelled and also get iTunes to remove some tracks by Buju Banton, Elephant Man and TOK that they deemed contrary to their standards.\n\nThe Green Party of England and Wales and OutRage! campaigned on behalf of the stop murder music campaign, including petitioning the United Kingdom Home Secretary in 2004.\n\nTatchell has called for laws against homophobic music and the Campaign participated in protests outside concerts. The Campaign has especially objected to lyrics which they allege to support violence, including allegedly murder, towards gay men. Dennis Carney, chair of the Black Gay Men's Advisory Group, argued in 2004 that the MOBO Awards had a responsibility to exclude anti-gay artists because, \"homophobic lyrics in music normalise hatred towards black gay men.\" \n\nThe UK International Development Minister Gareth Thomas argued in a speech that, \"A number of artists [such as Sizzla and Buju Banton] are effectively contributing to the spread of HIV by producing reggae and rap songs actually encouraging discrimination against those who have AIDS and encouraging violence against minority groups such as men who have sex with men...Yes, we believe in free speech, but nobody in a democracy should be able to incite violence against minorities.\" He cited John King and the Mighty Gabby as examples of musicians who are positive role models against violence and discrimination.\n\nTatchell and the Stop Murder Music campaign have been criticized by The Black Music Council, a British organisation formed in 2004 in response to the campaign by the president of Blacker Dread Records, Blacker Dread, in order, \"to protect the rights of the eight artistes placed on the OutRage! hit list\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3213530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3213530", "title": "Tameshigiri", "text": "Tameshigiri\n\nTameshigiri (試し斬り, 試し切り, 試斬, 試切) is the Japanese art of target test cutting. The kanji literally mean \"test cut\" (kun'yomi: ためし ぎり \"tameshi giri\"). This practice was popularized in the Edo period (17th century) for testing the quality of Japanese swords. It continues to the present day, but has evolved into a martial art which focuses on demonstrating the practitioner's skill with a sword.\n\nDuring the Edo period, only the most skilled swordsmen were chosen to test swords, so that the swordsman's skill was not a variable in determining how well the sword cut. The materials used to test swords varied greatly. Some substances were \"wara\" (rice straw), \"goza\" (the top layer of tatami mats), bamboo, and thin steel sheets.\n\nIn addition, there were a wide variety of cuts used on cadavers and occasionally convicted criminals, from \"tabi-gata\" (ankle cut) to \"O-kesa\" (diagonal cut from shoulder to opposite hip). The names of the types of cuts on cadavers show exactly where on the body the cut was made. Older swords can still be found today that have inscriptions on their \"nakago\" (tang) that say things such as, \"5 bodies with \"Ryu Guruma\" (hip cut)\". Such an inscription, known as a \"tameshi-mei\" or \"saidan-mei\" (cutting signature) would add greatly to a sword's value, compensating the owner somewhat for the large sums of money typically charged for the test.\n\nAside from specific cuts made on cadavers, there were the normal cuts of Japanese swordsmanship, i.e. downward diagonal (\"Kesa-giri\"), upward diagonal (\"Kiri-age\" or \"Gyaku-kesa\"), horizontal (\"Yoko\" or \"Tsuihei\"), and straight downward (\"Jodan-giri\", \"Happonme\", \"Makko-giri\", \"Shinchoku-giri\" or \"Dottan-giri\").\n\nThere is an apocryphal story of a condemned criminal who, after being told he was to be executed by a sword tester using a \"Kesa-giri\" cut, calmly joked that if he had known that was going to happen, he would have swallowed large stones to damage the blade.\n\nIn modern times, the practice of \"tameshigiri\" has come to focus on testing the swordsman's abilities, rather than the sword's. Indeed, the swords used are typically inexpensive ones.\n\nPractitioners of \"tameshigiri\" sometimes use the terms \"Shito\" (試刀, sword testing) and \"Shizan\" (試斬, test cutting, an alternate pronunciation of the characters for \"tameshigiri\") to distinguish between the historical practice of testing swords and the contemporary practice of testing one's cutting ability. The target most often used is the tatami \"omote\" rush mat. To be able to cut consecutive times on one target, or to cut multiple targets while moving, requires that one be a very skilled swordsman.\n\nTargets today are typically made from \"goza\", or rolled tatami omote, the top layer of the traditional Japanese floor covering, either bundled or rolled into a cylindrical shape. They may be soaked in water to add density to the material. This density is to approximate that of flesh. Green bamboo is used to approximate bone.\n\nOnce the \"goza\" target is in this cylindrical shape, it has a vertical grain pattern when stood vertically on a target stand, or horizontally when placed on a horizontal target stand (\"dotton\" or \"dodan\"). This direction of the grain affects the difficulty of the cut.\n\nThe difficulty of cuts is a combination of the target material hardness, the direction of the grain of the target (if any), the quality of the sword, the angle of the blade (\"hasuji\") on impact, and the angle of the swing of the sword (\"tachisuji\").\n\nWhen cutting a straw target that is standing vertically, the easiest cut is the downward diagonal. This is due to a combination of the angle of impact of the cut against the grain (approximately 30-50 degrees from the surface), the downward diagonal angle of the swing, and the ability to use many of the major muscle groups and rotation of the body to aid in the cut.\n\nNext in difficulty is the upward diagonal cut which has the same angle, but works against gravity and uses slightly different muscles and rotation. The third in difficulty is the straight downward cut, not in terms of the grain but in terms of the group of muscles involved. The most difficult cut of these four basic cuts is the horizontal direction (against a vertical target) which is directly perpendicular to the grain of the target.\n\nThere are a number of swordsmen who have recently set records in the field of \"tameshigiri\". Mitsuhiro Saruta, founder of Ryuseiken, set the initial Guinness World Record for completing 1000 cuts (senbongiri) in 1 hour 36 minutes on September 20, 1998. In 2000, Russell McCartney of \"Ishiyama-ryū\" completed 1181 consecutive cuts without a missed attempt in 1 hour 25 minutes. Both Saruta and McCartney performed \"senbongiri\" using a \"kata\"-based approach as one of the criteria for their challenge. Isao Machii of Shūshinryū currently has the record for the fastest \"senbongiri\" performance of 36 minutes. Machii also holds records for the most cuts in three minutes (252), and the most cuts to a single free-standing target (7). The record for most cuts in one minute (83) is held by \"Daitō-ryū Aiki-jūjutsu\" practitioner Iaso Machii of Japan. Toshishiro Obata holds the record for \"Kabuto Wari\", or helmet cutting, for his cut on a steel \"Kabuto\" (helmet). Obata also holds the \"Ioriken Battojutsu\" speed cutting record for 10 cuts on 10 targets over three rounds. His times are 6.4, 6.4, and 6.7 seconds respectively. Brandt Noel of San Yama Ryu Bujutsu holds the record of 19 mats with \"Katana\" using \"Kesa-giri\".\n\nHistorical European Martial Arts reconstructors, under the term \"test cutting\", engage in similar exercises with various European swords. While tatami \"omote\", green bamboo (though rarely), and especially meat are the preferred cutting targets, other substances are commonly used due to being cheaper, and much easier to obtain: pool noodles, various gourds (pumpkins, squash, etc.), water-filled plastic bottles, soaked newspaper rolls, synthetic targets or wet clay.\n\nThe targets can be placed in different configurations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35013518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35013518", "title": "The captain goes down with the ship", "text": "The captain goes down with the ship\n\n\"The captain goes down with the ship\" is an idiom and maritime tradition that a sea captain holds ultimate responsibility for both his ship and everyone embarked on it, and that in an emergency, he will either save them or die trying. Although often connected to the sinking of the RMS \"Titanic\" in 1912 and its captain, Edward J. Smith, the phrase precedes \"Titanic\" by at least 11 years. In most instances, the captain of the ship forgoes his own rapid departure of a ship in distress, and concentrates instead on saving other people. It often results in either the death or belated rescue of the captain as the last person on board.\n\nThe concept is closely related to another protocol from the nineteenth century, \"women and children first.\" Both reflect the Victorian ideal of chivalry in which the upper classes were expected to emulate a morality tied to sacred honour, service, and respect for the disadvantaged. The actions of the captain and men during the sinking of in 1852 prompted praise from many due to the sacrifice of the men who saved the women and children by evacuating them first. Rudyard Kipling's poem \"Soldier an' Sailor Too\" and Samuel Smiles' \"Self-Help\" both highlighted the valour of the men who stood at attention and played in the band as their ship was sinking.\n\nThe idiom literally means that a captain will be the last person to leave a ship alive before its sinking or utter destruction, and if unable to evacuate the crew and passengers, the captain will not save himself even if he can. In a social context, especially as a mariner, the captain will feel compelled to take this responsibility as a type of social norm. Shirking this responsibility in a crisis would go against societal mores because of the offender's lack of ethics.\n\nIn maritime law, the ship's master's responsibility for his vessel is paramount no matter what its condition, so abandoning a ship has legal consequences, including the nature of salvage rights. So even if a captain abandons his ship in distress, he is generally responsible for it in his absence and would be compelled to return to the ship until danger to the vessel has relented. If a naval captain evacuates a vessel in wartime, it may be considered a capital offence similar to desertion unless he subsequently returns to the ship at his first opportunity to prevent its capture and rescue the crew.\n\nAbandoning a ship in distress may be considered a crime that can lead to imprisonment. Captain Francesco Schettino, who left his ship in the midst of the \"Costa Concordia\" disaster, was not only widely reviled for his actions, but lost his final appeal against his 16-year Italian prison sentence including one year for abandoning his passengers, five years for causing the shipwreck, and ten years for manslaughter of its victims. Abandoning ship is a maritime crime that has been on the books for centuries in Spain, Greece and Italy. South Korean law may also require the captain to rescue himself last. In Finland the Maritime Law (\"Merilaki\") states that the captain must do everything in his power to save everyone on board the ship in distress and that unless his life is in immediate danger, he shall not leave the vessel as long as there is reasonable hope that it can be saved. In the United States, abandoning the ship is not explicitly illegal, but the captain could be charged with other crimes, such as manslaughter, which encompass common law precedent passed down through centuries. It is not illegal under international maritime law.\n\n\nIn some cases the captain may choose to scuttle the ship and escape danger rather than die as it sinks. This choice is usually only available if the damage does not immediately imperil a vast portion of the ship's company and occupants. If a distress call was successful and the crew and occupants, the ship's cargo, and other items of interest are rescued, then the vessel may not be worth anything as marine salvage and allowed to sink. In other cases a military organization or navy might wish to destroy a ship to prevent it being taken as a prize or captured for espionage, such as occurred in the incident. Commodities and war material carried as cargo might also need to be destroyed to prevent capture by the opposing side.\n\nIn other cases a captain may decide to save himself to the detriment of his crew, the vessel, or its mission. A decision that shirks the responsibilities of the command of a vessel will usually bring upon the captain a legal, criminal, or social penalty, with military commanders often facing dishonor.\n\n\nWhen used metaphorically, the \"captain\" may be simply the leader of a group of people, \"the ship\" may refer to some other place that is threatened by catastrophe, and \"going down\" with it may refer to a situation that implies a severe penalty or death. It is common for references to be made in the case of the military and when leadership during the situation is clear. So when a raging fire threatens to destroy a mine, the mine's supervisor, the \"captain,\" may perish in the fire trying to rescue his workers trapped inside, and acquaintances might say that he went down with his ship or that he \"died trying.\"\n\nThe concept has been explicitly extended in law to the pilot in command of an aircraft, in the form of laws stating that he \"[has] final authority and responsibility for the operation and safety of the flight.\" Jurisprudence has explicitly interpreted this by analogy with the captain of a sea vessel.\n\nThis is particularly relevant when an aircraft is forced to ditch in the ocean and becomes a floating vessel that will almost certainly sink. For example, following the crash of US Airways Flight 1549 into the Hudson River, pilot Chesley Sullenberger was the last person to exit the partially-submerged aircraft, and performed a final check for any others on board before doing so.\n\nSimilarly, on October 16, 1956, Pan Am Flight 6 was a Boeing 377 Stratocruiser en route from Honolulu to San Francisco that was forced to ditch in the Pacific Ocean due to multiple engine failures. The airliner broke apart when one of its wings collided with a wave swell. Airline Captain Richard N. Ogg was the last to exit the airplane during the successful mid-ocean ditching and rescue of all 31 on board by the US Coast Guard Cutter USCGC \"Pontchartrain\". The airplane fuselage sank with no one on board a few minutes later.\n\nAfter a major scandal at Baylor University, the university fired President Kenneth Starr and appointed him chancellor. A week later, Starr resigned as chancellor and \"willingly accepted responsibility\" for the actions of Baylor that \"clearly fell short.\" He stated that his resignation for the scandal was \"a matter of conscience,\" and said, \"The captain goes down with the ship.\" He indicated that his resignation was necessary even though he \"didn't know what was happening.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "30494448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30494448", "title": "Tolerance tax", "text": "Tolerance tax\n\nTolerance tax (Toleranzgebührer) was a tax that was levied against Jews of Hungary, then part of the Austrian Empire, between 1747 and 1797.\n\nThe tax was based on the German statute that a Jew was obliged to pay a certain tax to be \"tolerated\".\n\nIn 1747, during the reign of Empress Maria Theresa, the Jews of Hungary were taxed for the privilege of remaining in the empire, and were threatened with expulsion if they did not pay. \n\nOn September 1, 1749, the delegates of the Hungarian Jews, except those from Szatmár County, assembled at Pressburg and met a royal commission, which informed them that they would be expelled from the country if they did not pay this tax. The frightened Jews at once agreed to do so; and the commission then demanded a yearly tax of 50,000 gulden. This sum being excessive, the delegates protested; and although the queen had fixed 30,000 gulden as the minimum tax, they were finally able to compromise on the payment of 20,000 gulden a year for a period of eight years. The delegates were to apportion this amount among the districts; the districts, their respective sums among the communities; and the communities, theirs among the individual members.\n\nThe queen confirmed this agreement of the commission, except the eight-year clause, changing the period to three years, which she subsequently made five. The agreement, thus ratified by the queen, was brought on November 26 before the courts, which were powerless to relieve the Jews from the payment of this \"Malkegeld\" (queen's money), as they called it.\n\nThe Jews, thus burdened by new taxes, thought the time ripe for taking steps to remove their oppressive disabilities. While still at Presburg the delegates had brought their grievances before the mixed commission that was called \"delegata in puncto tolerantialis taxae et gravaminum Judeorum commissio mixta\". These complaints pictured the distress of the Jews of that time. They were not allowed to live in Croatia and Slavonia, in Baranya and Heves Counties, or in several free royal towns and localities; nor might they visit the markets there. At Stuhlweissenburg (Székesfehérvár) they had to pay a poll-tax of 1 gulden, 30 kreuzer if they entered the city during the day, if only for an hour. In many places they might not even stay overnight. They therefore begged permission to settle, or at least to visit the fairs, in Croatia and Slavonia and in those places from which they had been driven in consequence of the jealousy of the Greeks and the merchants.\n\nThe Jews also had to pay heavier bridge-and ferry-tolls than the Christians; at Nagyszombat (Trnava) they had to pay three times the ordinary sum, namely, for the driver, for the vehicle, and for the animal drawing the same; and in three villages belonging to the same district they had to pay toll, although there was no toll-gate. Jews living on the estates of the nobles had to give their wives and children as pledges for arrears of taxes. In Upper Hungary they asked for the revocation of the Tolerance tax imposed by the chamber of Zips County (Szepes, Spiš), on the ground that otherwise the Jews living there would have to pay two such taxes; and they asked also to be relieved from a similar tax paid to the Diet. Finally, they requested that Jewish artisans might be allowed to follow their trades in their homes undisturbed.\n\nThe commission laid these complaints before the Queen, indicating the manner in which they could be relieved; and their suggestions were subsequently willed by the queen and made into law.\n\nThe queen relieved the Jews from the Tolerance tax in Upper Hungary only. In regard to the other complaints she ordered that the Jews should specify them in detail, and that the government should remedy them insofar as they came under its jurisdiction.\n\nThe Tolerance tax had hardly been instituted when Michael Hirsch petitioned the government to be appointed primate of the Hungarian Jews in order to be able to settle difficulties that might arise among them, and to collect the tax. The government did not recommend Hirsch, but decided that in case the Jews should refuse to pay, it might be advisable to appoint a primate to adjust the matter.\n\nBefore the end of the period of five years the delegates of the Jews again met the commission at Pressburg (Bratislava) and offered to increase the amount of their tax to 25,000 gulden a year if the queen would promise that it should remain at that sum for the next ten years. The queen had other plans, however; not only did she dismiss the renewed \"gravamina\" of the Jews, but rather imposed stiffer regulations upon them. Their tax of 20,000 gulden was increased to 30,000 gulden in 1760; to 50,000 in 1772; to 80,000 in 1778; and to 160,000 in 1813.\n\nThe method of calculating the Tolerance tax varied over time and location, according to the size of household, occupation, and income-producing assets.\n\nIn 1783, Emperor Joseph II, the son of Maria Theresa, allowed Jews to settle in Pest, while enacting a tolerance tax, which the Jews had to pay to the town.\n\nAfter 1789, the Jews paid a tolerance tax of 4 guilder per family, a tax on kosher meat, a marriage tax, a tax on the synagogues and cemeteries of 100 guilder per year, and a quota tax of 50 guilder per year.\n\nIn 1797, after the death of Joseph II, the tolerance tax and the taxes on homes and properties were replaced by a candle tax on Jewish religious candles.\n\nIn Croatia, Slavonia, and Dalmatia, further rights were granted to Jews in 1840, but the \"tolerance tax\" remained in force. \n\n"}
{"id": "43974486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43974486", "title": "Universal Space Interface Standard", "text": "Universal Space Interface Standard\n\nUniversal Space Interface Standard (USIS) is a physical interface between medium to large manned or unmanned spacecraft such as satellites, space stations and service tugs. It is designed to be suitable for adoption as an industry standard. Development is currently being undertaken by Mark Hempsell at Hempsell Astronautics Ltd. The rationale for the creation of an industry standard for spacecraft interfaces is that the number of applications for space vehicles is likely to increase greatly in the future (space tourism being a recent example). If each craft is utilising a common interface many new applications become feasible. This is somewhat analogous to the benefits which have been gained by widespread adoption of the USB connector in computing or even the standardisation of AC power plugs and sockets across some parts of the world.\n\nThe fundamental purpose of USIS has been stated to \"be a standard connection that maximises the interconnectivity between independent systems in both the open space (orbital) and celestial body surface environments\". To achieve this USIS must be suitable for a range of connection types, from ground made connections to hard docking between orbiting spacecraft. It must also be highly interconnectable (for example being fully androgynous, any two USISs being compatible), capable of bearing expected loads, capable of soft capture, and be able to sever the connection in a controlled manner. USIS also needs to be able to facilitate data, power and resource transfer when connected, and allow easy passage of personnel who are not necessarily trained astronauts in anticipation of the Space Tourism industry.\nThree potential designs have been proposed for the USIS concept, one from Reaction Engines, one from Qinetiq and one most recently from Hempsell Astronautics.\n"}
{"id": "32591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32591", "title": "Vegetarianism", "text": "Vegetarianism\n\nVegetarianism is the practice of abstaining from the consumption of meat (red meat, poultry, seafood, and the flesh of any other animal), and may also include abstention from by-products of animal slaughter.\n\nVegetarianism may be adopted for various reasons. Many people object to eating meat out of respect for sentient life. Such ethical motivations have been codified under various religious beliefs, as well as animal rights advocacy. Other motivations for vegetarianism are health-related, political, environmental, cultural, aesthetic, economic, or personal preference. There are variations of the diet as well: an ovo-lacto vegetarian diet includes both eggs and dairy products, an ovo-vegetarian diet includes eggs but not dairy products, and a lacto-vegetarian diet includes dairy products but not eggs. A vegan diet excludes all animal products, including eggs and dairy. Some vegans also avoid other animal products such as beeswax, leather or silk clothing, and goose-fat shoe polish.\n\nPackaged and processed foods, such as cakes, cookies, candies, chocolate, yogurt, and marshmallows, often contain unfamiliar animal ingredients, so may be a special concern for vegetarians due to the likelihood of such additions. Often, prior to purchase or consumption, vegetarians will scrutinize products for animal-derived ingredients. Vegetarians' feelings vary with regard to these ingredients. For example, while some vegetarians may be unaware of animal-derived rennet's role in the production of cheese, and may therefore unknowingly consume the product, other vegetarians may not take issue with its consumption.\n\nSemi-vegetarian diets consist largely of vegetarian foods but may include fish or poultry, or sometimes other meats, on an infrequent basis. Those with diets containing fish or poultry may define \"meat\" only as mammalian flesh and may identify with vegetarianism. A pescetarian diet has been described as \"fish but no other meat\". The common-use association between such diets and vegetarianism has led vegetarian groups such as the Vegetarian Society to state that diets containing these ingredients are not vegetarian, because fish and birds are also animals.\nThe first discovered written use of the term \"vegetarian\" dates to 1839 and refers to what was previously described as a vegetable regimen or diet, for example in print in 1811. Modern dictionaries based on scientific linguistic principles have always explained its origin as an irregular compound of \"vegetable\" (in the adjectival sense of any plant still common today) and the suffix \"-arian\" (in the sense of \"supporter, believer\" as in \"humanitarian\"), but there were amateur attempts, even by a Latin scholar not trained in linguistics, to find other origins of the word.\nThe term was popularized with the foundation of the Vegetarian Society in Manchester in 1847, although it may have appeared in print before 1847. The earliest occurrences of the term seem to be related to Alcott House—a school on the north side of Ham Common, London—which was opened in July 1838 by James Pierrepont Greaves. From 1841, it was known as \"A Concordium, or Industry Harmony College\", from which time the institution began to publish its own pamphlet entitled \"The Healthian\", which provides some of the earliest appearances of the term \"vegetarian\".\n\nThe earliest record of vegetarianism comes from the Indus Valley Civilization as early as the 7th century BCE, inculcating tolerance towards all living beings. Parshwanatha and Mahavira, the 23rd & 24th \"tirthankaras\" in Jainism respectively revived and advocated ahimsa and Jain vegetarianism in 8th to 6th century BC; the most comprehensive and strictest form of vegetarianism. Vegetarianism was also practiced in ancient Greece and the earliest reliable evidence for vegetarian theory and practice in Greece dates from the 6th century BC. The Orphics, a religious movement spreading in Greece at that time, also practiced and promoted vegetarianism. Greek teacher Pythagoras, who promoted the altruistic doctrine of metempsychosis, may have practiced vegetarianism, but is also recorded as eating meat. A fictionalized portrayal of Pythagoras appears in Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\", in which he advocates a form of strict vegetarianism. It was through this portrayal that Pythagoras was best known to English-speakers throughout the early modern period and, prior to the coinage of the word \"vegetarianism\", vegetarians were referred to in English as \"Pythagoreans\".\n\nVegetarianism was also practiced about six centuries later in another instance (30 BCE–50 CE) in the northern Thracian region by the Moesi tribe (who inhabited present-day Serbia and Bulgaria), feeding themselves on honey, milk, and cheese.\n\nIn Indian culture, vegetarianism has been closely connected with the attitude of nonviolence towards animals (called \"ahimsa\" in India) for millennia and was promoted by religious groups and philosophers. The ancient Indian work of Tirukkural explicitly and unambiguously emphasizes shunning meat and non-killing. Chapter 26 of the Tirukkural, particularly couplets 251–260, deals exclusively on vegetarianism or veganism. Among the Hellenes, Egyptians, and others, vegetarianism had medical or ritual purification purposes.\nFollowing the Christianization of the Roman Empire in late antiquity, vegetarianism practically disappeared from Europe, as it did elsewhere, except in India. Several orders of monks in medieval Europe restricted or banned the consumption of meat for ascetic reasons, but none of them eschewed fish. Moreover, the medieval definition of \"fish\" included such animals as seals, porpoises, dolphins, barnacle geese, puffins, and beavers. Vegetarianism re-emerged during the Renaissance, becoming more widespread in the 19th and 20th centuries. In 1847, the first Vegetarian Society was founded in the United Kingdom; Germany, the Netherlands, and other countries followed. In 1886, the vegetarian colony Nueva Germania was founded in Paraguay, though its vegetarian aspect would prove short-lived. The International Vegetarian Union, an association of the national societies, was founded in 1908. In the Western world, the popularity of vegetarianism grew during the 20th century as a result of nutritional, ethical, and—more recently—environmental and economic concerns.\n\n \nThere are a number of vegetarian diets that exclude or include various foods:\n\nWithin the \"ovo-\" groups, there are many who refuse to consume fertilized eggs (with balut being an extreme example); however, such distinction is typically not specifically addressed.\n\nSome vegetarians also avoid products that may use animal ingredients not included in their labels or which use animal products in their manufacturing. For example, sugars that are whitened with bone char, cheeses that use animal rennet (enzymes from animal stomach lining), gelatin (derived from the collagen inside animals' skin, bones, and connective tissue), some cane sugar (but not beet sugar) and beverages (such as apple juice and alcohol) clarified with gelatin or crushed shellfish and sturgeon, while other vegetarians are unaware of, or do not mind, such ingredients.\n\nIndividuals sometimes label themselves \"vegetarian\" while practicing a semi-vegetarian diet, as some dictionary definitions describe vegetarianism as sometimes including the consumption of fish, or only include mammalian flesh as part of their definition of meat, while other definitions exclude fish and all animal flesh. In other cases, individuals may describe themselves as \"flexitarian\".\nThese diets may be followed by those who reduce animal flesh consumed as a way of transitioning to a complete vegetarian diet or for health, ethical, environmental, or other reasons. Semi-vegetarian diets include:\n\nSemi-vegetarianism is contested by vegetarian groups, such as the Vegetarian Society, which states that vegetarianism excludes all animal flesh.\n\n \n\nStudies on the health effects of vegetarian diets observe heterogeneous effects on mortality. One review found a decreased overall risk of all cause mortality, cancer (except breast) and cardiovascular disease; however, a meta-analysis found lower risk for ischemic heart disease and cancer but no effect on overall mortality or cerebrovascular disease. Possible limitations include varying definitions used of vegetarianism, and the observation of increased risk of lung cancer mortality in those on a vegetarian diet for less than five years. An analysis pooling two large studies found vegetarians in the UK have similar all cause mortality as meat eaters. An older meta analysis found similar results, only finding decreased mortality in vegetarians, pescatarians, and irregular meat eaters in ischemic heart disease, but not from any other cause.\n\nVegetarian diets have been shown to prevent and treat gallstones, cardiovascular disease, rheumatoid arthritis, dementia, diverticular disease, renal disease, hypertension, osteoporosis, cancer, and diabetes.\n\nA vegetarian diet which is poorly planned can lead to hyperhomocysteinemia and platelet disorders; this risk may be offset by ensuring sufficient consumption of vitamin B 12 and polyunsaturated fatty acids.\n\nThe Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and Dietitians of Canada have stated that at all stages of life, a properly planned vegetarian diet is \"healthful, nutritionally adequate, and provides health benefits in the prevention and treatment of certain diseases\". Large-scale studies have shown that mortality from ischemic heart disease was 30% lower among vegetarian men and 20% lower among vegetarian women than in non-vegetarians. Vegetarian diets offer lower levels of saturated fat, cholesterol and animal protein, and higher levels of carbohydrates, fibre, magnesium, potassium, folate, and antioxidants such as vitamins C and E and phytochemicals.\n\n\"Vegetarian diets can meet guidelines for the treatment of diabetes and some research suggests that diets that are more plant-based reduce risk of type-2 diabetes. Rates of self-reported Seventh-day Adventists (SDA) were less than half of those of the general population, and, among SDA, vegetarians had lower rates of diabetes than non-vegetarians. Among possible explanations for a protective effect of vegetarian diet are the Lower BMI of vegetarians and higher fiber intake, both of which improve insulin sensitivity.\"\n\nThe relationship between vegetarian diet and bone health remains unclear. According to some studies, a vegetarian lifestyle can be associated with vitamin B 12 deficiency and low bone mineral density. However, a study of vegetarian and non-vegetarian adults in Taiwan found no significant difference in bone mineral density between the two groups. Other studies, exploring animal protein's negative effects on bone health, suggest that vegetarians may be less prone to osteoporosis than omnivores, as vegetarian subjects had greater bone mineral density and more bone formation.\n\nThe China-Cornell-Oxford Project, a 20-year study conducted by Cornell University, the University of Oxford, and the government of China has established a correlation between the consumption of animal products and a variety of chronic illnesses, such as coronary heart disease, diabetes, and cancers of the breast, prostate and bowel (see \"The China Study\").\n\nA British study of almost 10,000 men found that those who gave up meat were almost twice as likely to suffer from depression as people on a conventional balanced diet. The study found that the 350 committed vegetarians studied had a higher average depression score compared to others.\n\nA vegetarian diet may help reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease, as the most important dietary link to Alzheimer's disease appears to be meat consumption, with eggs and high-fat dairy also contributing.\n\nWestern vegetarian diets are typically high in carotenoids, but relatively low in omega-3 fatty acids and vitamin B. Vegans can have particularly low intake of vitamin B and calcium if they do not eat enough items such as collard greens, leafy greens, tempeh and tofu (soy). High levels of dietary fiber, folic acid, vitamins C and E, and magnesium, and low consumption of saturated fat are all considered to be beneficial aspects of a vegetarian diet. A well planned vegetarian diet will provide all nutrients in a meat-eater's diet to the same level for all stages of life.\n\nProtein intake in vegetarian diets is lower than in meat diets but can meet the daily requirements for most people. Studies at Harvard University as well as other studies conducted in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and various European countries,\nconfirmed vegetarian diets provide sufficient protein intake as long as a variety of plant sources are available and consumed. Pumpkin seeds, peanut butter, hemp seed, almonds, pistachio nuts, flaxseed, tofu, oats, soybeans, walnuts, are great sources of protein for vegetarians. Proteins are composed of amino acids, and a common concern with protein acquired from vegetable sources is an adequate intake of the essential amino acids, which cannot be synthesised by the human body. While dairy and egg products provide complete sources for ovo-lacto vegetarian, several vegetable sources have significant amounts of all eight types of essential amino acids, including lupin beans, soy, hempseed, chia seed, amaranth, buckwheat, pumpkin seeds spirulina, pistachios, and quinoa. However, the essential amino acids can also be obtained by eating a variety of complementary plant sources that, in combination, provide all eight essential amino acids (e.g. brown rice and beans, or hummus and pita, though protein combining in the same meal is not necessary). A 1994 study found a varied intake of such sources can be adequate.\n\nVegetarian diets typically contain similar levels of iron to non-vegetarian diets, but this has lower bioavailability than iron from meat sources, and its absorption can sometimes be inhibited by other dietary constituents. According to the Vegetarian Resource Group, consuming food that contains vitamin C, such as citrus fruit or juices, tomatoes, or broccoli, is a good way to increase the amount of iron absorbed at a meal. Vegetarian foods rich in iron include black beans, cashews, hempseed, kidney beans, broccoli, lentils, oatmeal, raisins, spinach, cabbage, lettuce, black-eyed peas, soybeans, many breakfast cereals, sunflower seeds, chickpeas, tomato juice, tempeh, molasses, thyme, and whole-wheat bread. The related vegan diets can often be higher in iron than vegetarian diets, because dairy products are low in iron. Iron stores often tend to be lower in vegetarians than non-vegetarians, and a few small studies report very high rates of iron deficiency (up to 40%, and 58% of the respective vegetarian or vegan groups). However, the American Dietetic Association states that iron deficiency is no more common in vegetarians than non-vegetarians (adult males are rarely iron deficient); iron deficiency anaemia is rare no matter the diet.\n\nAccording to the United States National Institutes of Health, vitamin B is not generally present in plants and is naturally found in foods of animal origin. Lacto-ovo vegetarians can obtain B from dairy products and eggs, and vegans can obtain it from fortified foods (including some soy products and some breakfast cereals) and dietary supplements. Vitamin B can also be obtained from fortified yeast extract products.\n\nThe recommended dietary allowance of B in the United States is, per day, 0.4 mcg (0–6 months), rising to 1.8 mcg (9–13 years), 2.4 mcg (14+ years), and 2.8 mcg (lactating female). While the body's daily requirement for vitamin B is very small, deficiency of the vitamin is very serious leading to anemia and irreversible nerve damage.\n\nPlant-based, or vegetarian, sources of Omega 3 fatty acids include soy, walnuts, pumpkin seeds, canola oil, kiwifruit, hempseed, algae, chia seed, flaxseed, echium seed and leafy vegetables such as lettuce, spinach, cabbage and purslane. Purslane contains more Omega 3 than any other known leafy green. Olives (and olive oil) are another important plant source of unsaturated fatty acids. Plant foods can provide alpha-linolenic acid which the human body uses to synthesize the long-chain n-3 fatty acids EPA and DHA. EPA and DHA can be obtained directly in high amounts from oily fish or fish oils. Vegetarians, and particularly vegans, have lower levels of EPA and DHA than meat-eaters. While the health effects of low levels of EPA and DHA are unknown, it is unlikely that supplementation with alpha-linolenic acid will significantly increase levels. Recently, some companies have begun to market vegetarian DHA supplements containing seaweed extracts. Whole seaweeds are not suitable for supplementation because their high iodine content limits the amount that may be safely consumed. However, certain algae such as spirulina are good sources of gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), linoleic acid (LA), stearidonic acid (SDA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), and arachidonic acid (AA).\n\nCalcium intake in vegetarians and vegans can be similar to non-vegetarians, as long as the diet is properly planned. Lacto-ovo vegetarians that include dairy products can still obtain calcium from dairy sources like milk, yogurt, and cheese.\n\nNon-dairy milks that are fortified with calcium, such as soymilk and almond milk can also contribute a significant amount of calcium in the diet. The calcium found in broccoli, bok choy, and kale have also been found to have calcium that is well absorbed in the body. Though the calcium content per serving is lower in these vegetables than a glass of milk, the absorption of the calcium into the body is higher. Other foods that contain calcium include calcium-set tofu, blackstrap molasses, turnip greens, mustard greens, soybeans, tempeh, almonds, okra, dried figs, and tahini. Though calcium can be found in Spinach, swiss chard, beans and beet greens, they are generally not considered to be a good source since the calcium binds to oxalic acid and is poorly absorbed into the body. Phytic acid found in nuts, seeds, and beans may also impact calcium absorption rates. See the National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements for calcium needs for various ages, the Vegetarian Resource Group and the Vegetarian Nutrition Calcium Fact Sheet from the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics for more specifics on how to obtain adequate calcium intake on a vegetarian or vegan diet.\n\nVitamin D needs can be met via the human body's own generation upon sufficient and sensible exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light in sunlight. Products including milk, soy milk and cereal grains may be fortified to provide a source of Vitamin D. For those who do not get adequate sun exposure or food sources, Vitamin D supplementation may be necessary.\n\n\nVitamin D, or ergocalciferol is found in fungus (except alfalfa which is a plantae) and created from viosterol, which in turn is created when ultraviolet light activates ergosterol (which is found in fungi and named as a sterol from ergot). Any UV-irradiated fungus including yeast form vitamin D. Human bioavailability of vitamin D from vitamin D-enhanced button mushrooms via UV-B irradiation is effective in improving vitamin D status and not different from a vitamin D supplement according to study. For example, Vitamin D from UV-irradiated yeast baked into bread is bioavailable.\nBy visual assessment or using a chromometer, no significant discoloration of irradiated mushrooms, as measured by the degree of \"whiteness\", was observed making it hard to discover if they have been treated without labeling. Claims have been made that a normal serving (approx. 3 oz or 1/2 cup, or 60 grams) of mushrooms treated with ultraviolet light increase their vitamin D content to levels up to 80 micrograms, or 2700 IU if exposed to just 5 minutes of UV light after being harvested.\n\nThere have been many comparative and statistical studies of the relationship between diet and longevity, including vegetarianism and longevity.\n\nA 1999 metastudy combined data from five studies from western countries. The metastudy reported mortality ratios, where lower numbers indicated fewer deaths, for fish eaters to be 0.82, vegetarians to be 0.84, occasional meat eaters (eat meat less than once per week) to be 0.84. Regular meat eaters had the base mortality rate of 1.0, while the number for vegans was very uncertain (anywhere between 0.7 and 1.44) due to too few data points. The study reported the numbers of deaths in each category, and expected error ranges for each ratio, and adjustments made to the data. However, the \"lower mortality was due largely to the relatively low prevalence of smoking in these [vegetarian] cohorts\". Out of the major causes of death studied, only one difference in mortality rate was attributed to the difference in diet, as the conclusion states: \"...vegetarians had a 24% lower mortality from ischaemic heart disease than non-vegetarians, but no associations of a vegetarian diet with other major causes of death were established\".\n\nIn \"Mortality in British vegetarians\", a similar conclusion is drawn:\n\nBritish vegetarians have low mortality compared with the general population. Their death rates are similar to those of comparable non-vegetarians, suggesting that much of this benefit may be attributed to non-dietary lifestyle factors such as a low prevalence of smoking and a generally high socio-economic status, or to aspects of the diet other than the avoidance of meat and fish.\"\n\nThe Adventist Health Studies is ongoing research that documents the life expectancy in Seventh-day Adventists. This is the only study among others with similar methodology which had favourable indication for vegetarianism. The researchers found that a combination of different lifestyle choices could influence life expectancy by as much as 10 years. Among the lifestyle choices investigated, a vegetarian diet was estimated to confer an extra 1–1/2 to 2 years of life. The researchers concluded that \"the life expectancies of California Adventist men and women are higher than those of any other well-described natural population\" at 78.5 years for men and 82.3 years for women. The life expectancy of California Adventists surviving to age 30 was 83.3 years for men and 85.7 years for women.\n\nThe Adventist health study is again incorporated into a metastudy titled \"Does low meat consumption increase life expectancy in humans?\" published in \"American Journal of Clinical Nutrition\", which concluded that low meat eating (less than once per week) and other lifestyle choices significantly increase life expectancy, relative to a group with high meat intake. The study concluded that \"The findings from one cohort of healthy adults raises the possibility that long-term (≥ 2 decades) adherence to a vegetarian diet can further produce a significant 3.6-y increase in life expectancy.\" However, the study also concluded that \"Some of the variation in the survival advantage in vegetarians may have been due to marked differences between studies in adjustment for confounders, the definition of vegetarian, measurement error, age distribution, the healthy volunteer effect, and intake of specific plant foods by the vegetarians.\" It further states that \"This raises the possibility that a low-meat, high plant-food dietary pattern may be the true causal protective factor rather than simply elimination of meat from the diet.\" In a recent review of studies relating low-meat diet patterns to all-cause mortality, Singh noted that \"5 out of 5 studies indicated that adults who followed a low meat, high plant-food diet pattern experienced significant or marginally significant decreases in mortality risk relative to other patterns of intake.\"\n\nStatistical studies, such as comparing life expectancy with regional areas and local diets in Europe also have found life expectancy considerably greater in southern France, where a low meat, high plant Mediterranean diet is common, than northern France, where a diet with high meat content is more common.\n\nA study by the Institute of Preventive and Clinical Medicine, and Institute of Physiological Chemistry looked at a group of 19 vegetarians (lacto-ovo) and used as a comparison a group of 19 omnivorous subjects recruited from the same region. The study found that this group of vegetarians (lacto-ovo) have a significantly higher amount of plasma carboxymethyllysine and advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) compared to this group of non-vegetarians. Carboxymethyllysine is a glycation product which represents \"a general marker of oxidative stress and long-term damage of proteins in aging, atherosclerosis and diabetes\" and \"[a]dvanced glycation end products (AGEs) may play an important adverse role in process of atherosclerosis, diabetes, aging and chronic renal failure\".\n\nVegetarian diets may lower the risk of heart disease, as well as reduce the need for medications prescribed for chronic illnesses.\n\nVegetarian diets have been studied to see whether they are of benefit in treating arthritis, but no good supporting evidence has been found.\n\nThe American Dietetic Association discussed that vegetarian diets may be more common among adolescents with eating disorders, indicating that vegetarian diets do not cause eating disorders, but rather \"vegetarian diets may be selected to camouflage an existing eating disorder\".\n\nVarious ethical reasons have been suggested for choosing vegetarianism, usually predicated on the interests of non-human animals. In many societies, controversy and debate have arisen over the ethics of eating animals. Some people, while not vegetarians, refuse to eat the flesh of certain animals due to cultural taboo, such as cats, dogs, horses or rabbits. Others support meat eating for scientific, nutritional and cultural reasons, including religious ones. Some meat eaters abstain from the meat of animals reared in particular ways, such as factory farms, or avoid certain meats, such as veal or foie gras. Some people follow vegetarian or vegan diets not because of moral concerns involving the raising or consumption of animals in general, but because of concerns about the specific treatment and practises involved in the raising and slaughter of animals, i.e. factory farming and the industrialisation of animal slaughter. Others still avoid meat because meat production is claimed to place a greater burden on the environment than production of an equivalent amount of plant protein.\n\nEthical objections based on consideration for animals are generally divided into opposition to the act of killing in general, and opposition to certain agricultural practices surrounding the production of meat.\n\nPrinceton University professor and animal rights activist Peter Singer believes that if alternative means of survival exist, one ought to choose the option that does not cause unnecessary harm to animals. Most ethical vegetarians argue that the same reasons exist against killing animals in the flesh to eat as against killing humans to eat, especially humans with cognitive abilities equal or lesser than the animals in question. Singer, in his book \"Animal Liberation,\" listed possible qualities of sentience in non-human creatures that gave such creatures the scope to be considered under utilitarian ethics, and this has been widely referenced by animal rights campaigners and vegetarians. Ethical vegetarians also believe that killing an animal, like killing a human, especially one who has equal or lesser cognitive abilities than the animals in question, can only be justified in extreme circumstances and that consuming a living creature for its enjoyable taste, convenience, or nutrition value is not a sufficient cause. Another common view is that humans are morally conscious of their behavior in a way other animals are not, and therefore subject to higher standards. One author proposes that denying the right to life and humane treatment to animals with equal or greater cognitive abilities than mentally disabled humans is an arbitrary and discriminatory practice based on habit instead of logic. Opponents of ethical vegetarianism argue that animals are not moral equals to humans and so consider the comparison of eating livestock with killing people to be fallacious. This view does not excuse cruelty, but maintains that animals do not possess the rights a human has.\n\nOne of the main differences between a vegan and a typical vegetarian diet is the avoidance of both eggs and dairy products such as milk, cheese, butter and yogurt. Ethical vegans do not consume dairy or eggs because they state that their production causes the animal suffering or a premature death.\n\nTo produce milk from dairy cattle, calves are separated from their mothers soon after birth and slaughtered or fed milk replacer in order to retain the cows milk for human consumption. Many vegans state that this breaks the natural mother and calf bond. Unwanted male calves are either slaughtered at birth or sent for veal production. To prolong lactation, dairy cows are almost permanently kept pregnant through artificial insemination. After about five years, once the cow's milk production has dropped, she is considered \"spent\" and sent to slaughter for beef and her hide. A dairy cow's natural life expectancy is about twenty years.\n\nIn battery cage and free-range egg production, unwanted male chicks are culled or discarded at birth during the process of securing a further generation of egg-laying hens.\n\nEthical vegetarianism has become popular in developed countries particularly because of the spread of factory farming, faster communications, and environmental consciousness. Some believe that the current mass demand for meat cannot be satisfied without a mass-production system that disregards the welfare of animals, while others believe that practices like well-managed free-ranging and consumption of game, particularly from species whose natural predators have been significantly eliminated, could substantially alleviate the demand for mass-produced meat.\n\nAncient Greek philosophy has a long tradition of vegetarianism. Pythagoras was reportedly vegetarian (and studied at Mt. Carmel, where some historians say there was a vegetarian community), as his followers were expected to be.\n\nRoman writer Ovid concluded his magnum opus Metamorphoses, in part, with the impassioned argument (uttered by the character of Pythagoras) that in order for humanity to change, or metamorphose, into a better, more harmonious species, it must strive towards more humane tendencies. He cited vegetarianism as the crucial decision in this metamorphosis, explaining his belief that human life and animal life are so entwined that to kill an animal is virtually the same as killing a fellow human.\n\nJainism teaches vegetarianism as moral conduct as do some major sects of Hinduism. Buddhism in general does not prohibit meat eating, while Mahayana Buddhism encourages vegetarianism as beneficial for developing compassion. Other denominations that advocate a vegetarian diet include the Seventh-day Adventists, the Rastafari movement, the Ananda Marga movement and the Hare Krishnas. Sikhism does not equate spirituality with diet and does not specify a vegetarian or meat diet.\n\nWhile there are no dietary restrictions in the Bahá'í Faith, `Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of the religion's founder, noted that a vegetarian diet consisting of fruits and grains was desirable, except for people with a weak constitution or those that are sick. He stated that there are no requirements that Bahá'ís become vegetarian, but that a future society should gradually become vegetarian. `Abdu'l-Bahá also stated that killing animals was contrary to compassion. While Shoghi Effendi, the head of the Bahá'í Faith in the first half of the 20th century, stated that a purely vegetarian diet would be preferable since it avoided killing animals, both he and the Universal House of Justice, the governing body of the Bahá'ís have stated that these teachings do not constitute a Bahá'í practice and that Bahá'ís can choose to eat whatever they wish but should be respectful of others' beliefs.\n\nTheravadins in general eat meat. If Buddhist monks \"see, hear or know\" a living animal was killed specifically for them to eat, they must refuse it or else incur an offense. However, this does not include eating meat which was given as alms or commercially purchased. In the Theravada canon, Buddha did not make any comment discouraging them from eating meat (except specific types, such as human, elephant meat, horse, dog, snake, lion, tiger, leopard, bear, and hyena flesh) but he specifically refused to institute vegetarianism in his monastic code when a suggestion had been made.\n\nIn several Sanskrit texts of Mahayana Buddhism, Buddha instructs his followers to avoid meat. However, each branch of Mahayana Buddhism selects which sutra to follow, and some branches, including the majority of Tibetan and Japanese Buddhists, do eat meat, while many Chinese Buddhist branches do not.\n\nChristians have always been free to make their own decisions about what to eat; however, there are groups within Christianity that practice specific dietary restrictions for various reasons. The early sect known as the Ebionites are considered to have practiced vegetarianism. Surviving fragments from their Gospel indicate their belief that – as Christ is the Passover sacrifice and eating the Passover lamb is no longer required – a vegetarian diet may (or should) be observed. However, orthodox Christianity does not accept their teaching as authentic. Indeed, their specific injunction to strict vegetarianism was cited as one of the Ebionites' \"errors\".\n\nAt a much later time, the Bible Christian Church founded by Reverend William Cowherd in 1809 followed a vegetarian diet. Cowherd was one of the philosophical forerunners of the Vegetarian Society. Cowherd encouraged members to abstain from eating of meat as a form of temperance.\n\nSeventh-day Adventists are encouraged to engage in healthy eating practices, and ova-lacto-vegetarian diets are recommended by the General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists Nutrition Council (GCNC). They have also sponsored and participated in many scientific studies exploring the impact of dietary decisions upon health outcomes. The GCNC has in addition adapted the USDA's food pyramid for a vegetarian dietary approach. However, the only kinds of meat specifically frowned upon by the SDA health message are unclean meats, or those forbidden in scripture.\n\nAdditionally, some monastic orders follow a vegetarian diet, and members of the Orthodox Church follow a vegan diet during fasts. There is also a strong association between the Quakers and vegetarianism dating back at least to the 18th century. The association grew in prominence during the 19th century, coupled with growing Quaker concerns in connection with alcohol consumption, anti-vivisection and social purity. The association between the Quaker tradition and vegetarianism, however, becomes most significant with the founding of the Friends' Vegetarian Society in 1902 \"to spread a kindlier way of living amongst the Society of Friends.\"\n\nAccording to Canon Law, Roman Catholics are required to abstain from meat (defined as all animal flesh excluding water animals) on Ash Wednesday and all Fridays of Lent including Good Friday. Canon Law also obliges Catholics to abstain from meat on the Fridays of the year outside of Lent (excluding certain holy days) unless, with the permission of the local conference of bishops, another penitential act is substituted. The restrictions on eating meat on these days is solely as an act of penance and not because of a religious objection to eating meat.\n\nSince the formation of the Seventh-day Adventist Church in the 1860s when the church began, wholeness and health have been an emphasis of the Adventist church, and has been known as the \"health message\" belief of the church. Adventists are well known for presenting a health message that recommends vegetarianism and expects adherence to the kosher laws in Leviticus 11. Obedience to these laws means abstinence from pork, shellfish, and other animals proscribed as \"unclean\". The church discourages its members from consuming alcoholic beverages, tobacco or illegal drugs (compare Christianity and alcohol). In addition, some Adventists avoid coffee, tea, cola, and other beverages containing caffeine.\n\nThe pioneers of the Adventist Church had much to do with the common acceptance of breakfast cereals into the Western diet, and the \"modern commercial concept of cereal food\" originated among Adventists. John Harvey Kellogg was one of the early founders of Adventist health work. His development of breakfast cereals as a health food led to the founding of Kellogg's by his brother William. In both Australia and New Zealand, the church-owned Sanitarium Health and Wellbeing Company is a leading manufacturer of health and vegetarian-related products, most prominently Weet-Bix.\n\nResearch funded by the U.S. National Institutes of Health has shown that the average Adventist in California lives 4 to 10 years longer than the average Californian. The research, as cited by the cover story of the November 2005 issue of \"National Geographic\", asserts that Adventists live longer because they do not smoke or drink alcohol, have a day of rest every week, and maintain a healthy, low-fat vegetarian diet that is rich in nuts and beans. The cohesiveness of Adventists' social networks has also been put forward as an explanation for their extended lifespan.\nSince Dan Buettner's 2005 \"National Geographic\" story about Adventist longevity, his book, \"The Blue Zones: Lessons for Living Longer From the People Who've Lived the Longest\", named Loma Linda, California a \"blue zone\" because of the large concentration of Seventh-day Adventists. He cites the Adventist emphasis on health, diet, and Sabbath-keeping as primary factors for Adventist longevity.\n\nAn estimated 35% of Adventists practice vegetarianism or veganism, according to a 2002 worldwide survey of local church leaders.\n\nThough there is no strict rule on what to consume and what not to, paths of Hinduism hold vegetarianism as an ideal. Some reasons are: the principle of nonviolence (ahimsa) applied to animals; the intention to offer only \"pure\" (vegetarian) food to a deity and then to receive it back as prasad; and the conviction that a sattvic diet is beneficial for a healthy body and mind and that non-vegetarian food is not recommended for a better mind and for spiritual development.\n\nHowever, the food habits of Hindus vary according to their community, location, custom and varying traditions. Historically and currently, those Hindus who eat meat prescribe Jhatka meat, while some Hindus believe that the cow is a holy animal whose slaughter for meat is forbidden.\n\nSome followers of Islam, or Muslims, chose to be vegetarian for health, ethical, or personal reasons. However, the choice to become vegetarian for non-medical reasons can sometimes be controversial due to conflicting fatwas and differing interpretations of the Quran. Though some more traditional Muslims may keep quiet about their vegetarian diet, the number of vegetarian Muslims is increasing.\n\nVegetarianism has been practiced by some influential Muslims including the Iraqi theologian, female mystic and poet Rabia of Basra, who died in the year 801, and the Sri Lankan Sufi master Bawa Muhaiyaddeen, who established The Bawa Muhaiyaddeen Fellowship of North America in Philadelphia. The former Indian president Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam was also famously a vegetarian.\n\nIn January 1996, The International Vegetarian Union announced the formation of the Muslim Vegetarian/Vegan Society.\n\nMany non-vegetarian Muslims will select vegetarian (or seafood) options when dining in non-halal restaurants. However, this is a matter of not having the right kind of meat rather than preferring not to eat meat on the whole.\n\nFollowers of Jainism believe that all living organisms whether they are micro-organism are living and have a soul, and have one or more senses out of five senses and they go to great lengths to minimise any harm to any living organism. Most Jains are lacto-vegetarians but more devout Jains do not eat root vegetables because they believe that root vegetables contain a lot more micro-organisms as compared to other vegetables, and that, by eating them, violence of these micro-organisms is inevitable. So they focus on eating beans and fruits, whose cultivation do not involve killing of a lot of micro-organisms. No products obtained from dead animals are allowed, because when a living beings dies, a lot of micro-organisms (called as decomposers) will reproduce in the body which decomposes the body, and in eating the dead bodies, violence of decomposers is inevitable. Jain monks usually do a lot of fasting, and when they knew through spiritual powers that their life is very little, they start fasting until death. Some particularly dedicated individuals are fruitarians. Honey is forbidden, because honey is the regurgitation of nectar by bees and may also contain eggs, excreta and dead bees. Some Jains do not consume plant parts that grow underground such as roots and bulbs, because the plants themselves and tiny animals may be killed when the plants are pulled up.\n\nWhile classical Jewish law neither requires nor prohibits the consumption of meat, Jewish vegetarians often cite Jewish principles regarding animal welfare, environmental ethics, moral character, and health as reasons for adopting a vegetarian or vegan diet.\n\nA number of medieval rabbis (e.g., Joseph Albo and Isaac Arama) regard vegetarianism as a moral ideal because the slaughter of animals might cause the individual who performs such acts to develop negative character traits. Many modern rabbis, by contrast, advocate vegetarianism or veganism primarily because of concerns about animal welfare, especially in light of the traditional prohibition on causing unnecessary \"pain to living creatures\" (tza'ar ba'alei hayyim).\n\nAccording to Genesis, consumption of meat was prohibited to human beings (1:29-30) though Noah was given permission to consume meat after the Great Flood. Some advocates of Jewish vegetarianism, such as Rabbi Abraham Isaac Kook, describe vegetarianism as an eschatological ideal to which all human beings must eventually return. A number of Jewish vegetarian groups and activists promote such ideas and believe that the halakhic permission to eat meat is a temporary leniency for those who are not ready yet to accept the vegetarian diet. For some commentators, such as Rabbi Shlomo Ephraim Luntschitz, the complexity of the laws of sacrifice and slaughter (shechita) was intended to discourage the consumption of meat and make it less painful for the animals.\n\nJewish vegetarianism and veganism have become especially popular among Israeli Jews. In 2016, Israel was described as \"the most vegan country on Earth\", as five percent of its population eschewed all animal products. Interest in veganism has grown among both non-Orthodox and Orthodox Jews in Israel.\n\nWithin the Afro-Caribbean community, a minority are Rastafari and follow the dietary regulations with varying degrees of strictness. The most orthodox eat only \"Ital\" or natural foods, in which the matching of herbs or spices with vegetables is the result of long tradition originating from the African ancestry and cultural heritage of Rastafari. \"Ital\", which is derived from the word vital, means essential to human existence. Ital cooking in its strictest form prohibits the use of salt, meat (especially pork), preservatives, colorings, flavorings and anything artificial. Most Rastafari are vegetarian.\n\nThe tenets of Sikhism do not advocate a particular stance on either vegetarianism or the consumption of meat, but leave the decision of diet to the individual. The tenth guru, Guru Gobind Singh, however, prohibited \"Amritdhari\" Sikhs, or those that follow the Sikh Rehat Maryada (the Official Sikh Code of Conduct) from eating Kutha meat, or meat which has been obtained from animals which have been killed in a ritualistic way. This is understood to have been for the political reason of maintaining independence from the then-new Muslim hegemony, as Muslims largely adhere to the ritualistic halal diet.\n\n\"Amritdharis\" that belong to some Sikh sects (e.g. Akhand Kirtani Jatha, Damdami Taksal, Namdhari and Rarionwalay, etc.) are vehemently against the consumption of meat and eggs (though they do consume and encourage the consumption of milk, butter and cheese). This vegetarian stance has been traced back to the times of the British Raj, with the advent of many new Vaishnava converts. In response to the varying views on diet throughout the Sikh population, Sikh Gurus have sought to clarify the Sikh view on diet, stressing their preference only for simplicity of diet. Guru Nanak said that over-consumption of food (Lobh, Greed) involves a drain on the Earth's resources and thus on life. Passages from the \"Guru Granth Sahib\" (the holy book of Sikhs, also known as the \"Adi Granth\") say that it is \"foolish\" to argue for the superiority of animal life, because though all life is related, only human life carries more importance: \"Only fools argue whether to eat meat or not. Who can define what is meat and what is not meat? Who knows where the sin lies, being a vegetarian or a non-vegetarian?\" The Sikh langar, or free temple meal, is largely lacto-vegetarian, though this is understood to be a result of efforts to present a meal that is respectful of the diets of any person who would wish to dine, rather than out of dogma.\n\nEnvironmental vegetarianism is based on the concern that the production of meat and animal products for mass consumption, especially through factory farming, is environmentally unsustainable. According to a 2006 United Nations initiative, the livestock industry is one of the largest contributors to environmental degradation worldwide, and modern practices of raising animals for food contribute on a \"massive scale\" to air and water pollution, land degradation, climate change, and loss of biodiversity. The initiative concluded that \"the livestock sector emerges as one of the top two or three most significant contributors to the most serious environmental problems, at every scale from local to global.\"\n\nIn addition, animal agriculture is a large source of greenhouse gases. According to a 2006 report it is responsible for 18% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions as estimated in 100-year CO equivalents. Livestock sources (including enteric fermentation and manure) account for about 3.1 percent of US anthropogenic GHG emissions expressed as carbon dioxide equivalents. This EPA estimate is based on methodologies agreed to by the Conference of Parties of the UNFCCC, with 100-year global warming potentials from the IPCC Second Assessment Report used in estimating GHG emissions as carbon dioxide equivalents.\n\nMeat produced in a laboratory (called in vitro meat) may be more environmentally sustainable than regularly produced meat. Reactions of vegetarians vary. Rearing a relatively small number of grazing animals can be beneficial, as the Food Climate Research Network at Surrey University reports: \"A little bit of livestock production is probably a good thing for the environment.\n\nIn May 2009, Ghent, Belgium, was reported to be \"the first [city] in the world to go vegetarian at least once a week\" for environmental reasons, when local authorities decided to implement a \"weekly meatless day\". Civil servants would eat vegetarian meals one day per week, in recognition of the United Nations' report. Posters were put up by local authorities to encourage the population to take part on vegetarian days, and \"veggie street maps\" were printed to highlight vegetarian restaurants. In September 2009, schools in Ghent are due to have a weekly \"veggiedag\" (\"vegetarian day\") too.\n\nSome groups, such as PETA, promote vegetarianism as a way to offset poor treatment and working conditions of workers in the contemporary meat industry. These groups cite studies showing the psychological damage caused by working in the meat industry, especially in factory and industrialised settings, and argue that the meat industry violates its labourers' human rights by assigning difficult and distressing tasks without adequate counselling, training and debriefing. However, the working conditions of agricultural workers as a whole, particularly non-permanent workers, remain poor and well below conditions prevailing in other economic sectors. Accidents, including pesticide poisoning, among farmers and plantation workers contribute to increased health risks, including increased mortality. According to the International Labour Organization, agriculture is one of the three most dangerous jobs in the world.\n\nSimilar to environmental vegetarianism is the concept of economic vegetarianism. An economic vegetarian is someone who practices vegetarianism from either the philosophical viewpoint concerning issues such as public health and curbing world starvation, the belief that the consumption of meat is economically unsound, part of a conscious simple living strategy or just out of necessity. According to the Worldwatch Institute, \"Massive reductions in meat consumption in industrial nations will ease their health care burden while improving public health; declining livestock herds will take pressure off rangelands and grainlands, allowing the agricultural resource base to rejuvenate. As populations grow, lowering meat consumption worldwide will allow more efficient use of declining per capita land and water resources, while at the same time making grain more affordable to the world's chronically hungry.\"\n\nPrejudice researcher Gordon Hodson observes that vegetarians and vegans frequently face discrimination where eating meat is held as a cultural norm.\n\nA 1992 market research study conducted by the Yankelovich research organisation concluded that \"of the 12.4 million people [in the US] who call themselves vegetarian, 68% are female, while only 32% are male\".\n\nAt least one study indicates that vegetarian women are more likely to have female babies. A study of 6,000 pregnant women in 1998 \"found that while the national average in Britain is 106 boys born to every 100 girls, for vegetarian mothers the ratio was just 85 boys to 100 girls\". Catherine Collins of the British Dietetic Association has dismissed this as a \"statistical fluke\" given that it is actually the male's genetic contribution which determines the sex of a baby.\n\n\n\n"}
