{"id": "34726364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34726364", "title": "A Narrative of the Pursuit of English Refugees in Germany Under Queen Mary", "text": "A Narrative of the Pursuit of English Refugees in Germany Under Queen Mary\n\nA Narrative of the Pursuit of English Refugees in Germany Under Queen Mary was a 1550s English chronicle by John Brett.\n\nBrett was a messenger for Mary I of England when she tried to have the Marian exiles returned to England. His chronicle, sometimes shorted to \"Brett's Narrative\" or \"Brett's Chronicle\" survives, and gives us detailed information on this episode.\n\nTranscript at: \n"}
{"id": "43446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43446", "title": "Arachne", "text": "Arachne\n\nIn Greek mythology (and later Roman mythology), Arachne (; from \"spider\", cognate with Latin \"araneus\") was a talented mortal weaver who challenged Athena, goddess of wisdom and crafts, to a weaving contest; this hubris resulted in her being transformed into a spider. There are many versions of the story's weaving contest, with each saying that one or the other won.\n\nArachne was a Lydian maiden who was the daughter of Idmon of Colophon, who was a famous dyer in purple. She was credited to have invented linen cloth and nets while her son Closter introduced the use of spindle in the manufacture of wool. She was said to have been a native of Hypæpæ, near Colophon in Asia Minor.\n\nOne version appears in the \"Metamorphoses\" of the Roman poet Ovid.\n\nIn this version, Arachne was a shepherd's daughter who began weaving at an early age. She became a great weaver, boasted that her skill was greater than that of Athena, and refused to acknowledge that her skill came, in part at least, from the goddess. Athena took offense and set up a contest between them. Presenting herself as an old lady, she approached the boasting girl and warned: \"You can never compare to any of the gods. Plead for forgiveness and Athena might spare your soul.\"\n\n\"Ha! I only speak the truth and if Athena thinks otherwise then let her come down and challenge me herself,\" Arachne replied. Athena removed her disguise and appeared in shimmering glory, clad in a sparkling white chiton. The two began weaving straight away. Athena's weaving represented four separate contests between mortals and the gods in which the gods punished mortals for setting themselves as equals of the gods. Arachne's weaving depicted ways that the gods had misled and abused mortals, particularly Zeus, tricking and seducing many women. When Athena saw that Arachne had not only insulted the gods but done so with a work far more beautiful than Athena's own, she was enraged. She ripped Arachne's work to shreds and hit her on the head three times. Terrified and ashamed, Arachne hanged herself. Then Athena said, \"Live on then, and yet hang, condemned one, but, lest you are careless in\nfuture, this same condition is declared, in punishment, against your descendants, to the last generation!\" After saying this she sprinkled her with the juice of Hecate's herb, and immediately at the touch of this dark poison, Arachne's hair fell out. With it went her nose and ears, her head shrank to the smallest size, and her whole body became tiny. Her slender fingers stuck to her sides as legs, the rest is belly, from which she still spins a thread, and, as a spider, weaves her ancient web.\" This showed how goddesses punished mortals who dared to insult them.\n\nThe taxonomical class name \"Arachnida\" and the name for spiders in many romance languages are both derived from \"arachne\".\n\nThe metamorphosis of Arachne in Ovid's telling furnished material for an episode in Edmund Spenser's mock-heroic \"Muiopotmos\", 257–352. Spenser's adaptation, which \"rereads an Ovidian story in terms of the Elizabethan world\" is designed to provide a rationale for the hatred of Arachne's descendent Aragnoll for the butterfly-hero Clarion.\n\nDante Alighieri uses Arachne in Canto XVII of \"Inferno\", the first part of \"The Divine Comedy\", to describe the horrible monster Geryon. \"... his back and all his belly and both flanks were painted arabesques and curlicues: the Turks and Tartars never made a fabric with richer colors intricately woven, nor were such complex webs spun by Arachne.\" \n\nThe tale of Arachne inspired one of Velázquez' most factual paintings: \"Las Hilanderas\" (\"The Spinners, or The fable of Arachne\", in the Prado), in which the painter represents the two important moments of the myth. In the front, the contest of Arachne and the goddess (the young and the old weaver), in the back, an \"Abduction of Europa\" that is a copy of Titian's version (or maybe of Rubens' copy of Titian). In front of it appears Minerva (Athena) at the moment she punishes Arachne. It transforms the myth into a reflection about creation and imitation, god and man, master and pupil (and therefore about the nature of art).\n\nIt has also been suggested that Jeremias Gotthelf's nineteenth century novella, \"The Black Spider\", was heavily influenced by the Arachne story from Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\". In the novella, a woman is turned into a venomous spider having reneged on a deal with the devil.\n\nArachne has had a considerable degree of influence on modern popular culture. She frequently appears in modern fantasy books, movies, and television series in the form of a monstrous spider. In \"\", she is pictured as a grotesque, half-woman, half-spider monster who nests on people to produce killer spiders. She is the central character in the 2011 novel \"The Spider Goddess\" by Tara Moss. In \"Class of the Titans\", Arachne is changed into a giant spider and makes a deal with Cronus to become human again. Cronus does not hold up the end of his bargain though and betrays her after getting her to trap the heroes for him. After being berated by Atlanta, Athena turns Arachne back into a human, and she is allowed to live at the Olympus High School, weaving for the gods.\n\nIn the 13th episode from season 6 of \"Supernatural\", \"Unforgiven\", the monster of the week is an Arachne, depicted as a humanoid monster with spider-like attributes and abilities, including the ability to weave strong webs and a poisonous bite that can turn other humans into Arachnes. They can only be killed by decapitation and before one appeared in Bristol, Rhode Island hadn't been seen in 2,000 years. While soulless, Sam Winchester hunted one, but was unaware that it had turned its victims into Arachnes as well. One of the turned victims comes back for revenge and Sam is forced to kill him. \n\nArachne is also featured in the \"Percy Jackson\" and \"Heroes of Olympus\" series. All of Athena's children, including Annabeth Chase, are arachnophobic because of Arachne's dispute with Athena. Arachne appears towards the end of \"The Mark of Athena\" as a large spider while still maintaining human features. She is defeated by Annabeth because of her pride and eventually they are both sent falling into Tartarus, where Percy Jackson kills Arachne.\n\nIn the novel \"The Last Unicorn\" written by Peter S. Beagle, a plain brown spider is bewitched into believing that she is Arachne until the witch who enchanted her is killed. She is mentioned to be one of the creatures in Mommy Fortuna's Midnight Carnival. The book describes Arachne as \"'...the greatest weaver in the world—her fate's the proof of it. She had the bad luck to defeat the goddess Athena in a weaving contest. Athena was a sore loser, and Arachne is now a spider, creating only for Mommy Fortuna's Midnight Carnival, by special arrangement. Warp of snow and woof of flame, and never any two the same. Arachne.'\"\n\nIn Marvel Comics, Arachne is the name used by the second Spider-Woman (Julia Carpenter, currently the new Madame Web) to distinguish herself from Jessica Drew, the original Spider-Woman. In Volume 3 of \"Monster Musume\", an Arachne (a human female from the hips upward and the body/legs of a spider) named Rachnera Arachnera is introduced; she goes on to become a member of the \"Monster Girl\" household in Volume 4. Arachne Gorgon is a powerful witch and one of the main antagonists of \"Soul Eater\". She was responsible for crafting the first demon weapons, an act that Death fiercely opposed, forcing her to bide her time and remain in hiding for 800 years. She returns to lead the risen Arachnaphobia, her personal army against Death.\n\nThe story of Arachne has also been adapted for many plays. She is the inspiration for a character featured in the Broadway musical \"\". \"Arachne: Spider Girl!\" is a play for children based on the myth by Ursula Dubosarsky, first published in the NSW School Magazine.\n\nGustave Doré's illustration of Arachne's punishment in Purgatory for Dante's \"Purgatorio\" has had a surprising number of pop culture appearances. It is one of the many recurring images used by the rock band, The Mars Volta; it has been used in the cover of their \"Live\" EP, as a backdrop for their live shows, and a favorite accessory for guitarist and composer Omar Rodríguez-López in the form of a belt buckle. Eminem's 2013 music video for the song \"Rap God\" features imagery from Dante's \"Purgatorio\", including the illustration of Arachne. (This is most likely a metaphor for the rappers who try to compete with the self-proclaimed \"Rap God\").\n\nOn Episode 245 of the Comedy Bang! Bang! Podcast, Comedian Neil Campbell references Arachne and Athena's rivalry during a freestyle rap battle. In the popular MOBA game, \"Smite\", Arachne is listed as a playable deity in the Greek pantheon.\n\nIn a short story \"More Spinned Against\" John Wyndham tells of how Arachne finds herself in the clutches of a spider-obsessed collector and of the deal she makes with the collector's wife Lydia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18648868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18648868", "title": "Atlas of Our Changing Environment", "text": "Atlas of Our Changing Environment\n\nAtlas of Our Changing Environment is a series of atlases published beginning in 2005 by the United Nations Environment Programme. The series includes:\n\n\nThese publications primarily make use of historical and recent satellite data alongside maps and photos to highlight areas of environmental change around the globe.\n\n"}
{"id": "4683415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4683415", "title": "Brewer's Dictionary of Irish Phrase and Fable", "text": "Brewer's Dictionary of Irish Phrase and Fable\n\nBrewer's Dictionary of Irish Phrase and Fable () was created by Jo O'Donoghue and Sean McMahon for the \"Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable\" series of books. It contains over five thousand entries regarding various subjects about Ireland and its sayings, myths, legends and fables.\n\n"}
{"id": "54119945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54119945", "title": "Comparison of Nikon 1 cameras", "text": "Comparison of Nikon 1 cameras\n\nThe following table compares general and technical features of Nikon 1 series cameras.\n\nKey:\n\n"}
{"id": "41196132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41196132", "title": "Comparisons between the National Football League and NCAA football", "text": "Comparisons between the National Football League and NCAA football\n\nThe National Football League (NFL) and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) are respectively the most popular professional and amateur football organizations in the United States. The National Football League was founded in 1920 and has since become the largest and most popular sport in the United States. The NFL has the highest average attendance of any sporting league in the world, with an average attendance of 66,960 persons per game during the 2011 NFL season. The NFL championship game, the Super Bowl, is among the biggest events in club sports worldwide. It is played between the champions of the National Football Conference (NFC) and the American Football Conference (AFC), and its winner is awarded the Vince Lombardi Trophy.\n\nCollegiate football ranks third in overall popularity in the United States, behind baseball and pro football. The NCAA, the largest collegiate organization, is divided into three Divisions: Division I, Division II and Division III. Division I football is further divided into two subdivisions: the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) and the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS). The champions of Division I-FCS, Division II and Division III are determined through playoff systems, and the Division I-FBS champion was determined through the Bowl Championship Series (BCS). Division I-FBS switched to a four-team playoff system in 2014.\n\nSome of the major rule differences between NFL and college football include:\n\nThe NFL consists of thirty-two clubs divided into two conferences of sixteen teams each. Each conference is divided into four divisions of four clubs each.\nThe NFL season format consists of a four-week preseason, a seventeen-week regular season, and a twelve-team single-elimination playoff culminating in the Super Bowl, the league's championship game.\nCollege teams mostly play other similarly sized schools through the NCAA's divisional system. Division I generally consists of the major collegiate athletic powers with larger budgets, more elaborate facilities, and more athletic scholarships. Division II primarily consists of smaller public and private institutions that offer fewer scholarships than those in Division I. Division III institutions also field teams, but do not offer any scholarships.\nFootball teams in Division I are further divided into the Bowl Subdivision (consisting of the largest programs) and the Championship Subdivision.\nThe Bowl Subdivision (FBS) previously did not have an organized tournament to determine its champion; instead, teams competed in post-season bowl games. Up through the 2013 season, the BCS National Championship game determined the national champion. The game featured the #1 and #2 teams in the BCS rankings, a mixture of computer and human polls ranking the top teams in the country. Beginning in the 2014 season, a 4-team playoff now determines the national champion. The four teams competing in the College Football Playoff are decided by a 13-member selection committee using a complex set of selection criteria and each committee member valuing certain selection criteria differently. These criteria include Strength of Schedule, Conference Championships, Win-Loss Record, On-field play, non-conference schedule and much more. The importance of traditional major bowl games will be preserved by using 2 of the 6 major bowls as the semi-finals of the playoff while the remaining 4 will incorporate traditional conference \"tie-ins\" to schedule teams in each bowl game.\nThe Championship Subdivision utilizes a college football playoff, the NCAA Division I Football Championship. As of 2014, 24 teams are selected for the playoff. Similar to the NCAA College Basketball Tournament, each conference champion received an automatic bid to the tournament. The remaining tournament berths are awarded as \"at-large\" selections by a selection committee.\n\nIn 2002, the Soldier Field was closed and rebuilt with only the exterior wall of the stadium being preserved. It was closed on Sunday, January 20, 2002, a day after the Bears lost in the playoffs. It reopened on September 27, 2003 after a complete rebuild (the second in the stadium's history). Many fans refer to the rebuilt stadium as \"New Soldier Field\". During the season, the Bears played their home games at the University of Illinois' Memorial Stadium in Champaign, where they went 3–5.\n\nCleveland Stadium hosted the annual Notre Dame/Navy college football game 11 times: in 1932, 1934, 1939, 1942, 1943, 1945, 1947, 1950, 1952, 1976 and 1978. The games were well attended, with an average attendance of 69,730 and a high of 84,090 fans for the 1947 game, which was won by Notre Dame 27-0. The only Great Lakes Bowl was held there in 1947. Local colleges Case Institute of Technology and Western Reserve University used the field from time to time as well. The Illinois Fighting Illini played the Penn State Nittany Lions there in 1959. The Ohio State Buckeyes played in the stadium four times. The first was in a 1942 win over Illinois before 68,656, the second a 1943 loss to Purdue, and the third a 1944 victory over Illinois. The final college football contest played there was on October 19, 1991, when the Northwestern Wildcats played a \"home\" game against the Buckeyes. While Northwestern received the home team's share of the gate receipts, the crowd was mostly Ohio State fans. The Ohio Classic college football game was held at FirstEnergy Stadium in both 2004 and 2005. In September 2006, it hosted the Bowling Green Falcons–Wisconsin Badgers game. In 2007, it began hosting the Patriot Bowl, a season-opening game between Army and Akron. Boston College defeated Kent State in the second Patriot Bowl on August 30, 2008. In 2009, it hosted the Ohio State–Toledo game. On October 14, 2008 CSU President Michael Schwartz stated \"he wants a blue ribbon panel to give him a recommendation on the football team before July 1, 2009, when he is scheduled to retire. He also said the program will have to be structured to pay for itself.\" The Football establishment issue became an official item on the Cleveland State University, Student Government Association election ballot. From Monday April 12 at 12:01 AM until Friday April 14 the student body voted on the issue. By Friday evening, the results indicated that 68.7% of the student population favored establishment of a football team. Furthermore, the student body was asked if they were willing to pay a fee for Division I non-scholarship football in addition to any potential, future tuition increases that may be instituted by the University. The student body responded with 55.6% of the vote being no.\n\nIn college sports, Detroit's central location within the Mid-American Conference has made it a frequent site for the league's championship events. While the MAC Basketball Tournament moved permanently to Cleveland starting in 2000, the MAC Football Championship Game has been played at Ford Field in Detroit since 2004, and annually attracts 25,000 to 30,000 fans. The University of Detroit Mercy has a NCAA Division I program, and Wayne State University has both NCAA Division I and II programs. The NCAA football Little Caesars Pizza Bowl is held at Ford Field each December.\n\nWhen built, Lambeau Field was also slated to be used by Green Bay's public high schools, as old City Stadium had been. However, a key 1962 game between the Packers and Detroit Lions was affected when two high schools played in the rain the preceding Friday, damaging the field. After that, Lombardi asked the schools to avoid using Lambeau, however both Southwest High and West High played there until a high school stadium was built in the late 1970s. In 1970, Green Bay's Premontre High School (the alma mater of Lombardi's son, Vince Jr., which has since been merged into Notre Dame Academy) hosted (and won) the state private school football championship.In 1982 and 1983, St. Norbert College hosted Fordham University (Lombardi's alma mater) in benefit games to fight cancer. Shortly after the 2006 Wisconsin–Ohio State hockey game, newspaper reports said the Wisconsin football team might be interested in moving a non-conference road game to Lambeau Field. In 2016, Lambeau Field will host the Wisconsin Badgers vs. LSU Tigers in the 2nd of a two-game series starting in 2014, where the game is in Houston at Reliant Stadium.\n\nCollege sports, especially college football, are popular in Jacksonville. The city hosts the Florida–Georgia game, an annual college football game between the University of Florida and the University of Georgia, and the TaxSlayer Bowl, a post-season college bowl game. Jacksonville's two universities compete in NCAA Division I: the University of North Florida Ospreys and the Jacksonville University Dolphins, both in the Atlantic Sun Conference.\n\nArrowhead Stadium serves as the venue for various intercollegiate football games. It has hosted the Big 12 Championship Game five times. On the last weekend in October, the Fall Classic rivalry game between Northwest Missouri State University and Pittsburg State University takes place here. The Bearcats of Northwest and Gorillas of Pitt State are frequently ranked one-two in the MIAA conference. In 2005, other games at Arrowhead included Arkansas State playing host to Missouri, and Kansas hosting Oklahoma.\n\nAs of 2016, Los Angeles once again has an NFL team for the first time since the 1994 season; with the Rams returning from St Louis playing out of the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum while a new stadium is constructed at Inglewood. Prior to 1994 it had two teams simultaneously. Immediately after that season, the Los Angeles Rams moved from suburban Anaheim to St. Louis, Missouri, and the Los Angeles Raiders returned to Oakland, California. The following year, the San Diego Chargers announced that they would return to Los Angeles, again giving it two teams.\n\nLos Angeles had multiple teams in the multiple American Football Leagues, prior to the NFL. The Los Angeles Wildcats, also called \"Wilson Wildcats\", were a traveling team for the first AFL in 1926. The Los Angeles Bulldogs were members of AFL (1937) and a minor AFL (1939) before joining the Pacific Coast Professional Football League. The Los Angeles Chargers were a charter member of AFL in 1960, becoming the San Diego Chargers in 1961. The returned to Los Angeles in 2017.\n\nThe Los Angeles area has hosted the Super Bowl seven times. The Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum hosted Super Bowl I in 1967 and Super Bowl VII in 1973. The Rose Bowl hosted Super Bowl XI in 1977, Super Bowl XIV in 1980, Super Bowl XVII in 1983, Super Bowl XXI in 1987 and Super Bowl XXVII in 1993. The city ranks third on the list of having hosted the most number of Super Bowls, after Miami and New Orleans.\nThe metropolitan area boasts nine NCAA Division I athletic programs. The best-known are the two whose football teams compete in the top-level Football Bowl Subdivision, both of which are in the city of Los Angeles proper:\n\n\nUSC has 11 national championships in football and, together with Notre Dame, has more Heisman Trophy winners than any other school.\n\nThe New York Jets of the American Football League and later, the National Football League played at Shea for twenty seasons, from 1964 to 1983 (excluding their first home game in 1977 played at Giants Stadium). The stadium hosted three Jets playoff games: the American Football League Championship in 1968 (beat the Oakland Raiders, 27–23), an AFL Divisional Playoff in 1969 (lost 13–6 to the Kansas City Chiefs) and the 1981 AFC Wild Card Playoff game (lost 31–27 to the Buffalo Bills). For most of the Jets' tenure at Shea, they were burdened by onerous lease terms imposed at the insistence of the Mets. Until 1978, the Jets could not play their first home game until the Mets' season was finished. For instance, in 1969, the defending Super Bowl champion Jets didn't play a home game until October 20 due to the Mets advancing to (and winning) the World Series. Even after 1978, the Mets' status as Shea's primary tenants would require the Jets to go on long road trips (switching Shea from baseball to football configuration was a rather complex process, involving electrical, plumbing, field and other similar work). The stadium was also not well maintained in the 1970s. The Jets moved to Giants Stadium for the 1984 season, enticed by the additional 15,000+ seats offered there. Fans ripped Shea apart after the last game of the 1983 season, which also was the last NFL appearance for Pro Football Hall of Fame quarterback Terry Bradshaw, who threw two touchdown passes to lead the Pittsburgh Steelers to a 34–7 victory. Even the scoreboard operator had a field day, displaying the home team as the \"N.J. Jets\". It was at Shea Stadium on December 16, 1973 that O.J. Simpson became the first running back to gain 2,000 yards in a single season (and, to date, the only player to do it in 14 games or fewer). In the 1983 season, a Jets game against the Los Angeles Rams featured an 85-yard touchdown run by rookie Eric Dickerson, as well as a brawl between Rams offensive tackle Jackie Slater and Jets defensive end Mark Gastineau when Slater blindsided Gastineau after the Jet performed his infamous \"Sack Dance\" over fallen Rams quarterback Vince Ferragamo. The NFL's New York Giants played their 1975 season at Shea while Giants Stadium was being built. The Giants were 5–9 that year (2–5 at Shea). Their coach was Bill Arnsparger and their quarterback was Craig Morton. The football field at Shea extended from around home plate all the way to the outfield, with the baseline seating rotating out to fill left and right fields.\n\nThe first college football game played in Yankee Stadium was a 3-0 Syracuse victory over Pittsburgh on October 20, 1923. When an ill Ruth could not lead the Yankees to the World Series in 1925, college football took center stage at Yankee Stadium that fall. The fiercely competitive Notre Dame–Army game moved to Yankee Stadium, where it remained until 1947. In the 1928 game, with the score 0–0 at halftime, legendary Notre Dame coach Knute Rockne gave his \"win one for the Gipper\" speech (with reference to All-American halfback George Gipp, who died in 1920); Notre Dame went on to defeat Army, 12–6. The 1929 game between the two teams had the highest attendance in the series at 79,408. The 1946 Army vs. Notre Dame football game at Yankee stadium is regarded as one of the 20th century college football Games of the Century. Notre Dame played 24 games at Yankee Stadium, going 15–6–3. Army played 38, compiling a 17–17–4 record (including the best-attended game, on December 1, 1928 when Army lost to Stanford 26–0 before 86,000 fans). New York University played more games there than any other school, 96, using it as a secondary home field from 1923 to 1948, with a record of 52–40–4. Nearby Fordham University played 19 games there, going 13–5–1. Eight college football games were played at Yankee Stadium on Thanksgiving Day, the first seven by New York University. Perhaps, the most famous Thanksgiving Day game was the first. Oregon State Agricultural College (now Oregon State) was the first West Coast team to travel across the country and play an East Coast team. 8–1 NYU was a 3–1 favorite to beat 5–3 OSAC, but Oregon State upset the hometown favorites 25–13. Will Rogers lamented what the \"Oregon apple knockers\" had done to his \"city slickers\" in a column after the game. After the 1928 game, NYU beat Carnegie Tech (now Carnegie Mellon University) in 1931 and 1932, defeated Fordham in 1936, lost to Carnegie Tech in 1929, and lost to Fordham in 1934 and 1935. In the eighth game, in 1963, Syracuse beat Notre Dame, 14–7. This was a rematch following the teams' controversial 1961 game won by Notre Dame, 17–15. The Gotham Bowl was scheduled to premiere at Yankee Stadium in 1960, but was canceled when no opponent could be found for Oregon State University. The 1961 game was moved to the Polo Grounds, and when just 6,166 people came to Yankee Stadium for the 1962 game, in which the University of Nebraska defeated the University of Miami, 36–34, the Gotham Bowl was never played again. The Miami-Nebraska game remains the only college bowl ever played at the stadium. In 1969, Notre Dame and Army reprised their long series at the Stadium (1925–1946 except 1930) with one final game. Starting in 1971, the Stadium hosted the Whitney M. Young Urban League Classic, a game between historically black colleges, often featuring Grambling State University of Louisiana, coached by Eddie Robinson, the first college coach to win 400 games. The Classic helped to spread the fame of Grambling and other similar schools. Yankee Stadium hosted its final Classic during the 1987 season, also the last time a football game was played there. Grambling lost to Central State University of Ohio, 37–21. The Classic has been held at Giants Stadium and MetLife Stadium in New Jersey's Meadowlands Sports Complex ever since, though the Yankees remain a supporter of the event. In 1926, after negotiations failed with the fledgling NFL and the Chicago Bears, Red Grange and his agent C.C. Pyle formed the first American Football League and fielded a team called the New York Yankees based in Yankee Stadium. The league failed after only one year, but the team continued as a member of the NFL for two seasons before ceasing operations. A second New York Yankees football team, not related to the first, split its home games between Yankee Stadium and Downing Stadium as it competed in the second AFL in 1936 and 1937. A third AFL New York Yankees took the field in 1940 and became the New York Americans in 1941. The New York Yankees of the All-America Football Conference (AAFC) played their home games at Yankee Stadium from 1946 to 1949. Following the 1949 season, the NFL New York Bulldogs acquired many of the players from the 1949 Yankees. Using the name the New York Yanks they played two seasons at Yankee Stadium, 1950 and 1951. The New York Giants of the NFL played their home games at Yankee Stadium from 1956 to 1973. On December 28, 1958, Yankee Stadium hosted the NFL championship game, frequently called \"The Greatest Game Ever Played\". The Baltimore Colts tied the Giants, 17–17, on a field goal with seven seconds left. Led by quarterback Johnny Unitas, the Colts won in overtime, 23–17. The game's dramatic ending is often cited as elevating professional football to one of the United States' major sports. Additionally, one of the most notable plays in NFL history occurred at Yankee Stadium on November 20, 1960 when the Philadelphia Eagles' Chuck Bednarik forcefully tackled the Giants' Frank Gifford in the last minute of a close game, forcing a fumble recovered by the Eagles that clinched the victory for Philadelphia and ultimately helped the Eagles dethrone the two-time defending champion Giants as NFL Eastern Division champions. The hit left Gifford with a concussion and forced his temporary retirement from football for the remainder of the 1960 season and all of the 1961 season. The Giants played their first two home games at Yankee Stadium in 1973, concluding their tenancy on September 23 with a 23–23 tie against the Philadelphia Eagles. In October, they moved to the Yale Bowl in New Haven, Connecticut, for the rest of the season.\n\nThe Arizona Cardinals moved to Phoenix from St. Louis, Missouri in 1988 and currently play in the Western Division of the National Football League's National Football Conference. The team, however, has never played in the city itself; they played at Sun Devil Stadium on the campus of Arizona State University in nearby Tempe until 2006. Sun Devil Stadium held Super Bowl XXX in 1996 when the Dallas Cowboys defeated the Pittsburgh Steelers. The Cardinals now play at University of Phoenix Stadium in west suburban Glendale. University of Phoenix Stadium hosted Super Bowl XLII on February 3, 2008, in which the New York Giants defeated the New England Patriots. It is also the home of the annual Tostitos Fiesta Bowl, a college football bowl game that is part of the Bowl Championship Series (BCS). The University of Phoenix Stadium will host Super Bowl XLIX in 2015.\n\nAll three football-playing schools in the Bay Area are in the Football Bowl Subdivision, the highest level of NCAA college football. The California Golden Bears and Stanford Cardinal compete in the Pac-12 Conference, and the San Jose State Spartans compete in the Mountain West Conference. The Cardinal and Golden Bears are intense rivals, with their football teams competing annually in the Big Game for the Stanford Axe. One of the most famous games in the rivalry is the 1982 edition, when the Golden Bears defeated the Cardinal on a last-second return kickoff known as \"The Play\".\n\nSaint Louis University (SLU) plays NCAA Division I sports as a member of the Atlantic 10 Conference. SLU dropped football as an intercollegiate sport in 1949, but SLU is best known for its men's basketball and men's soccer programs. The Edward Jones Dome hosted the first Big 12 Conference football championship game in 1996 (Nebraska versus Texas). The third game, in 1998, was also held in the dome (Kansas State versus Texas A&M). The dome has also been a neutral site for regular-season college football matchups between the University of Illinois and the University of Missouri, promoted locally as the \"Arch Rivalry\". Missouri has won all six games (2002, 2003, 2007, 2008, 2009 & 2010).\n\nOn December 20, 2008, Washington hosted its first college bowl game, the EagleBank Bowl, at RFK Stadium. The first match-up saw Wake Forest defeat Navy, 29–19. After the sponsorship deal between the bowl organizers and the area financial institution EagleBank expired following the 2009 edition, the game was rechristened as the Military Bowl presented by Northrop Grumman, thanks to a new sponsorship deal with the major defense contractor.\n\n"}
{"id": "246991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246991", "title": "Cookbook", "text": "Cookbook\n\nA cookbook or cookery book is a kitchen reference containing recipes.\n\nCookbooks may be general, or may specialize in a particular cuisine or category of food.\n\nRecipes in cookbooks are organized in various ways: by course (appetizer, first course, main course, dessert), by main ingredient, by cooking technique, alphabetically, by region or country, and so on. They may include illustrations of finished dishes and preparation steps; discussions of cooking techniques, advice on kitchen equipment, ingredients, and substitutions; historical and cultural notes; and so on.\n\nCookbooks may be written by individual authors, who may be chefs, cooking teachers, or other food writers; they may be written by collectives; or they may be anonymous. They may be addressed to home cooks, to professional restaurant cooks, to institutional cooks, or to more specialized audiences.\n\nSome cookbooks are didactic, with detailed recipes addressed to beginners or people learning to cook particular dishes or cuisines; others are simple aide-memoires, which may document the composition of a dish or even precise measurements, but not detailed techniques.\n\nAncient Mesopotamian recipes have been found on three Akkadian tablets, dating to about 1700 BC.\n\nThe earliest collection of recipes that has survived in Europe is \"De re coquinaria\", written in Latin. An early version was first compiled sometime in the 1st century and has often been attributed to the Roman gourmet Marcus Gavius Apicius, though this has been cast in doubt by modern research. An \"Apicius\" came to designate a book of recipes. The current text appears to have been compiled in the late 4th or early 5th century; the first print edition is from 1483. It records a mix of ancient Greek and Roman cuisine, but with few details on preparation and cooking.\n\nAn abbreviated epitome entitled \"Apici Excerpta a Vinidario\", a \"pocket Apicius\" by Vinidarius, \"an illustrious man\", was made in the Carolingian era. In spite of its late date it represents the last manifestation of the cuisine of Antiquity.\n\nThe earliest cookbooks known in Arabic are those of al-Warraq (an early 10th-century compendium of recipes from the 9th and 10th centuries) and al-Baghdadi (13th century).\n\nChinese recipe books are known from the Tang dynasty, but most were lost. One of the earliest surviving Chinese-language cookbooks is Hu Sihui's \"Yinshan Zhengyao\" (Important Principles of Food and Drink), believed to be from 1330. Hu Sihui, Buyantu Khan's dietitian and therapist, recorded a Chinese-inflected Central Asian cuisine as eaten by the Yuan court; his recipes were adapted from foods eaten all over the Mongol Empire. \"Eumsik dimibang\", written around 1670, is the oldest Korean cookbook and the first cookbook written by a woman in East Asia.\n\nAfter a long interval, the first recipe books to be compiled in Europe since Late Antiquity started to appear in the late thirteenth century. About a hundred are known to have survived, some fragmentary, from the age before printing. The earliest genuinely medieval recipes have been found in a Danish manuscript dating from around 1300, which in turn are copies of older texts that date back to the early 13th century or perhaps earlier.\n\nLow and High German manuscripts are among the most numerous. Among them is \"Daz buch von guter spise\" (\"The Book of Good Food\") written c. 1350 in Würzberg and \"Kuchenmeysterey\" (\"Kitchen Mastery\"), the first printed German cookbook from 1485. Two French collections are probably the most famous: \"Le Viandier\" (\"The Provisioner\") was compiled in the late 14th century by Guillaume Tirel, master chef for two French kings; and \"Le Menagier de Paris\" (\"The Householder of Paris\"), a household book written by an anonymous middle class Parisian in the 1390s. Du fait de cuisine is another Medieval French cookbook, written in 1420.\n\nFrom Southern Europe there is the 14th century Valencian manuscript Llibre de Sent Soví (1324), the Catalan \"Llibre de totes maneres de potatges de menjar\" (\"The book of all recipes of dishes\") and several Italian collections, notably the Venetian mid-14th century \"Libro per Cuoco\", with its 135 recipes alphabetically arranged. The printed \"De honesta voluptate et valetudine\" (\"On honourable pleasure\"), first published in 1475, is one of the first cookbooks based on Renaissance ideals, and, though it is as much a series of moral essays as a cookbook, has been described as \"the anthology that closed the book on medieval Italian cooking\".\n\nMedieval English cookbooks include \"The Forme of Cury\" and \"Utilis Coquinario\", both written in the fourteenth century. The Forme of Cury is a cookbook authored by the chefs of Richard II. Utilis Coquinario is a similar cookbook though written by an unknown author. Recipes originating in England also include the earliest recorded recipe for ravioli (1390s).\n\nWith the advent of the printing press in the 16th and 17th centuries, numerous books were written on how to manage households and prepare food. In Holland and England competition grew between the noble families as to who could prepare the most lavish banquet. By the 1660s, cookery had progressed to an art form and good cooks were in demand. Many of them published their own books detailing their recipes in competition with their rivals. Many of these books have now been translated and are available online.\n\nBy the 19th century, the Victorian preoccupation for domestic respectability brought about the emergence of cookery writing in its modern form. In 1796, the first known American cookbook titled, \"American Cookery\", written by Amelia Simmons, was published in Hartford, Connecticut. Until then, the cookbooks printed and used in the Thirteen Colonies were British. The first modern cookery writer and compiler of recipes for the home was Eliza Acton. Her pioneering cookbook, \"Modern Cookery for Private Families\" (1845), was aimed at the domestic reader rather than the professional cook or chef. This was an immensely influential book, and it established the format for modern writing about cookery. The publication introduced the now-universal practice of listing the ingredients and suggested cooking times with each recipe. It included the first recipe for Brussels sprouts. Contemporary chef Delia Smith is quoted as having called Acton \"the best writer of recipes in the English language.\" \"Modern Cookery\" long survived her, remaining in print until 1914 and available more recently in facsimile reprint. \n\nActon's work was an important influence on Isabella Beeton, who published \"Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\" in 24 monthly parts between 1857 and 1861. The book was a guide to running a Victorian household, with advice on fashion, child care, animal husbandry, poisons, the management of servants, science, religion, and industrialism. Despite its title, most of the text consisted of recipes, such that another popular name for the volume is \"Mrs Beeton's Cookbook\". Most of the recipes were illustrated with coloured engravings, and it was the first book to show recipes in a format that is still used today. Many of the recipes were plagiarised from earlier writers, including Acton.\n\nIn 1885 the \"Virginia Cookery Book\" was published by Mary Stuart Smith. In 1896 the American cook Fannie Farmer (1857–1915) published \"The Boston Cooking School Cookbook\" which contained some 1,849 recipes.\n\nCookbooks that serve as basic kitchen references (sometimes known as \"kitchen bibles\") began to appear in the early modern period. They provided not just recipes but overall instruction for both kitchen technique and household management. Such books were written primarily for housewives and occasionally domestic servants as opposed to professional cooks, and at times books such as \"The Joy of Cooking\" (USA), \"La bonne cuisine de Madame E. Saint-Ange\" (France), \"The Art of Cookery\" (UK, USA), \"Il cucchiaio d'argento\" (Italy), and \"A Gift to Young Housewives\" (Russia) have served as references of record for national cuisines. Cookbook also tell stories of the writers themselves and reflect upon the era in which they are written. They often reveal notions of social, political, environmental or economic contexts. For example, during the era of industrialization, convenience foods were brought into many households and were integrated and present in cookbooks written in this time. Related to this class are instructional cookbooks, which combine recipes with in-depth, step-by-step recipes to teach beginning cooks basic concepts and techniques. In vernacular literature, people may collect traditional recipes in family cookbooks.\n\nWhile western cookbooks usually group recipes for main courses by the main ingredient of the dishes, Japanese cookbooks usually group them by cooking techniques (e.g., fried foods, steamed foods, and grilled foods). Both styles of cookbook have additional recipe groupings such as soups or sweets.\n\nInternational and ethnic cookbooks fall into two categories: the kitchen references of other cultures, translated into other languages; and books translating the recipes of another culture into the languages, techniques, and ingredients of a new audience. The latter style often doubles as a sort of culinary travelogue, giving background and context to a recipe that the first type of book would assume its audience is already familiar with. Popular Puerto Rican cookbook, Cocina Criolla, written by Carmen Aboy Valldejuli, includes recipes that are typically of traditional Puerto Rican cuisine such as mofongo and pasteles. Valldejuli’s cookbook was not only important to Puerto Ricans, but also very popular in the United States where her original cookbook has since been published in several editions, including English versions. These include The Art of Caribbean Cookery - Doubleday, 1957; Puerto Rican Cookery - Pelican Publishing, 1983; and, Juntos en la Cocina (co-authored with her husband, Luis F. Valldejuli) - Pelican Publishing, 1986. \n\nProfessional cookbooks are designed for the use of working chefs and culinary students and sometimes double as textbooks for culinary schools. Such books deal not only in recipes and techniques, but often service and kitchen workflow matters. Many such books deal in substantially larger quantities than home cookbooks, such as making sauces by the liter or preparing dishes for large numbers of people in a catering setting. While the most famous of such books today are books like \"Le guide culinaire\" by Escoffier or \"The Professional Chef\" by the Culinary Institute of America, such books go at least back to medieval times, represented then by works such as Taillevent's \"Viandier\" and Chiquart d'Amiço's \"Du fait de cuisine\".\n\nSingle-subject books, usually dealing with a specific ingredient, technique, class of dishes or target group (e.g. for kids), are quite common as well. Jack Monroe for example features low budget recipes. Some imprints such as Chronicle Books have specialized in this sort of book, with books on dishes like curries, pizza, and simplified ethnic food. Popular subjects for narrow-subject books on technique include grilling/barbecue, baking, outdoor cooking, and even recipe cloning (Recipe cloning is copying commercial recipes where the original is a trade secret).\n\nCommunity cookbooks (also known as compiled, regional, charitable, and fund-raising cookbooks) are a unique genre of culinary literature. Community cookbooks focus on home cooking, often documenting regional, ethnic, family, and societal traditions, as well as local history. Sondra Gotlieb, for example, wrote her cookbooks on Canadian food culture by visiting people and homes by region. She gathered recipes, observed the foodways, observed the people and their traditions of each region by being in their own homes. Gotlieb did this so that she could put together a comprehensive cookbook based on the communities and individuals that make up Canada.Gooseberry Patch has been publishing community-style cookbooks since 1992 and built their brand on this community.\n\nCookbooks can also document the food of a specific chef (particularly in conjunction with a cooking show) or restaurant. Many of these books, particularly those written by or for a well-established cook with a long-running TV show or popular restaurant, become part of extended series of books that can be released over the course of many years. Popular chef-authors throughout history include people such as Delia Smith, Julia Child, James Beard, Nigella Lawson, Edouard de Pomiane, Jeff Smith, Emeril Lagasse, Claudia Roden, Madhur Jaffrey, Katsuyo Kobayashi, and possibly even Apicius, the semi-pseudonymous author of the Roman cookbook De re coquinaria, who shared a name with at least one other famous food figure of the ancient world.\n\nFamous cookbooks from the past, in chronological order, include:\n\nSeveral libraries have extensive collections of cookbooks.\n\n\nSome individuals are notable for their collections of cookbooks, or their scholarly interest therein. Elizabeth Robins Pennell, an American critic in London from the 1880s, was an early writer on the subject, and has recently been called \"one of the most well-known cookbook collectors in the world\". Much of her collection eventually went to the Rare Book and Special Collections Division at the Library of Congress. Held alongside hers are the thousands of gastronomic volumes donated by food chemist Katherine Bitting; their collections were evaluated in tandem in \"Two Loaf-Givers\", by one of the LOC's curators ; a digital version is available.\n\nThe term \"cookbook\" is sometimes used metaphorically to refer to any book containing a straightforward set of already tried and tested \"recipes\" or instructions for a specific field or activity, presented in detail so that the users who are not necessarily expert in the field can produce workable results. Examples include a set of circuit designs in electronics, a book of magic spells, or \"The Anarchist Cookbook\", a set of instructions on destruction and living outside the law. O'Reilly Media publishes a series of books about computer programming named the Cookbook series, and each of these books contain hundreds of ready to use, cut and paste examples to solve a specific problem in a single programming language.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3188884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3188884", "title": "Derrick and Patrice Jelliffe", "text": "Derrick and Patrice Jelliffe\n\nDerrick B. Jelliffe (b January 20, 1921 d March 18, 1992, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA) and his wife Eleanore. F. Patrice Jelliffe (b November 29, 1920 d March 16, 2007, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA) - known as Dick and Pat Jelliffe - were experts in tropical paediatrics and infant nutrition. They are most known for their seminal book, \"Human Milk in the Modern World\", published by Oxford University Press in 1978, and for editing the mult-volume \"Advances in International Maternal and Child Health\". The Jelliffes also wrote over 500 scholarly papers, often together and 22 books. They lived and worked in England, Africa, India, the Caribbean and settled in Los Angeles where he held the Chair in Public Health and Paediatrics at the University of California from 1972 to 1990.\n\nThe Jelliffes' field observations triggered the so-called Baby Killers scandal and the Nestlé boycott. Professor Jelliffe subsequently testified to a subcommittee of the US Senate organized by Teddy Kennedy in 1978. He coined the phrase \"commerciogenic malnutrition\" to refer to infant starvation caused by inappropriate promotion and use of infant formula or bottlefeeding in areas with low income and poor water supplies. He is associated with the protection, support and promotion of breastfeeding.\n\nOther areas associated with their research include the changing composition and properties of human milk, the contraceptive effects of breastfeeding, and the use of breastfeeding for rehydration and other issues for infant refugees. \nDr Charlotte Neumann of the UCLA School of Public Health has commented \"Dr. Jelliffe was the hero of all in international nutrition and health – he played a pivotal role in bringing pediatrics to Africa.\" Derrick Jelliffe was awarded the Wihuri International Prize in 1979. In\n1982 Derrick Jelliffe received an honorary doctorate from the Faculty of Medicine at Uppsala University, Sweden.\nPatrice Jelliffe was awarded the President's Certificate of Commendation from President Clinton at the White House in 1993.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28028065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28028065", "title": "Encyclopediae seu orbis disciplinarum tam sacrarum quam profanarum epistemon", "text": "Encyclopediae seu orbis disciplinarum tam sacrarum quam profanarum epistemon\n\nEncyclopediae seu orbis disciplinarum tam sacrarum quam profanarum epistemon is an early encyclopedia written in Latin by Zagreb born philosopher Paul Skalic. It was first published in Basel in 1559 and reprinted in Cologne, Germany in 1571. It is often considered to be the first encyclopedia to use the term \"encyclopedia\" in its title. This is not to be confused with the first appearance of the word which was disputed by Robert Collison who later reported that the work was poorly written, and that Joachim Sterck van Ringelbergh had used the word \"cyclopaedia\" to describe his work in 1541.\n\n"}
{"id": "48461384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48461384", "title": "Epistulae ad Brutum", "text": "Epistulae ad Brutum\n\nEpistulae ad Brutum (Letters to Brutus) is a collection of letters between Roman politician and orator Marcus Tullius Cicero and fellow politician, and conspirator against Julius Caesar, Marcus Junius Brutus. The letters in this collection, when combined with Cicero's other letters, are considered some of the most reliable sources of information for the period leading up to the fall of the Roman Republic. Cicero became acquainted with Brutus through his close friend Titus Pomponius Atticus, an admirer of Brutus. Their personal relationship likely grew during their time together in opposition to Caesar during the civil war in 49 BCE, it being firmly established by the time Cicero returned to Rome in the autumn of 47.\n\nTraditionally divided into two books, the collection features 26 letters written from March or April to July 43 BCE — a year after the assassination of Julius Caesar, and a year before the death of Brutus in 42. The authenticity of the letters was for a long time cast into doubt, but is now generally recognized, with the exception of the first book's letters 16 and 17. These two letters resemble the style of \"\" — exercises in rhetoric commonly used by students of the late Republic and Augustan eras. The second book of Cicero's letters to Brutus was first printed by Andreas Cratander of Basel in 1528 from a now lost manuscript obtained for him by Sichardus from the Abbey of Lorsch.\n\n"}
{"id": "36200511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36200511", "title": "Europarl Corpus", "text": "Europarl Corpus\n\nThe Europarl Corpus is a corpus (set of documents) that consists of the proceedings of the European Parliament from 1996 to the present. \nIn its first release in 2001, it covered eleven official languages of the European Union (Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Swedish). With the political expansion of the EU the official languages of the ten new member states have been added to the corpus data. The latest release (2012) comprised up to 60 million words per language with the newly added languages being slightly underrepresented as data for them is only available from 2007 onwards. This latest version includes 21 European languages: Romanic (French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian), Germanic (English, Dutch, German, Danish, Swedish), Slavic (Bulgarian, Czech, Polish, Slovak, Slovene), Finno-Ugric (Finnish, Hungarian, Estonian), Baltic (Latvian, Lithuanian), and Greek.\n\nThe data that makes up the corpus was extracted from the website of the European Parliament and then prepared for linguistic research. After sentence splitting and tokenization the sentences were aligned across languages with the help of an algorithm developed by Gale & Church (1993).\n\nThe corpus has been compiled and expanded by a group of researchers led by Philipp Koehn at the University of Edinburgh. Initially, it was designed for research purposes in statistical machine translation (SMT). However, since its first release it has been used for multiple other research purposes, including for example word sense disambiguation. EUROPARL is also available to search via the corpus management system Sketch Engine.\n\nIn his paper \"Europarl: A Parallel Corpus for Statistical Machine Translation\" (2005) Koehn sums up in how far the Europarl corpus is useful for research in SMT. He uses the corpus to develop SMT systems translating each language into each of the other ten languages of the corpus making it 110 systems. This enables Koehn to establish SMT systems for uncommon language pairs that have not been considered by SMT developers beforehand, such as Finnish-Italian for example.\n\nThe Europarl corpus may not only be used for developing SMT systems but also for their assessment. By measuring the output of the systems against the original corpus data for the target language the adequacy of the translation can be assessed. Koehn uses the BLEU metric by Papineni et al. (2002) for this, which counts the coincidences of the two compared versions—SMT output and corpus data—and calculates a score on this basis. The more similar the two versions are, the higher the score, and therefore the quality of the translation. Results reflect that some SMT systems perform better than others, e.g., Spanish–French (40.2) in comparison to Dutch–Finnish (10.3). Koehn states that the reason for this is that related languages are easier to translate into each other than those that are not.\n\nFurthermore, Koehn uses the SMT systems and the Europarl corpus data to investigate whether back translation is an adequate method for the evaluation of machine translation systems. For each language except English he compares the BLEU scores for translating that language from and into English (e.g. English > Spanish, Spanish > English) with those that can be achieved by measuring the original English data against the output obtained by translation from English into each language and back translation into English (e.g. English > Spanish > English). The results indicate that the scores for back translation are far higher than those for monodirectional translation and what is more important they do not correlate at all with the monodirectional scores. For example, the monodirectional scores for English<>Greek (27.2 and 23.2) are lower than those for English<>Portuguese (30.1 and 27.2). Yet the back translation score of 56.5 for Greek is higher than the one for Portuguese, which gets 53.6. Koehn explains this with the fact that errors committed in the translation process might simply be reversed by back translation resulting in high coincidences of in- and output. This, however, does not allow any conclusions about the quality of the text in the actual target language. Therefore, Koehn does not consider back translation an adequate method for the assessment of machine translation systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "31275318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31275318", "title": "Evocation of a Form: Human, Lunar, Spectral", "text": "Evocation of a Form: Human, Lunar, Spectral\n\nEvocation of a Form: Human, Lunar, Spectral is an abstract bronze sculpture by Jean Arp. Modeled in 1950; it was cast in 1957.\n\nIt is in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.\n\n"}
{"id": "3830367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3830367", "title": "Franklin Planner", "text": "Franklin Planner\n\nThe Franklin Planner is a paper-based time management system created by Hyrum W. Smith which began sales in 1984 from Franklin International Institute, Inc. The planner itself is the paper component of the time management system developed by Smith. \n\nThe planner pages are drilled, loose-leaf style pages in different sizes and formats. Formats have been updated through the years, but most planners contain areas for an appointment schedule, prioritized daily tasks, and notes. A key section at the rear of the planner contains addresses. Other inserts include ledger sheets for tracking finances or vehicle mileage, exercise logs, and other individualized reference materials.\n\nSmith named his planning system after Benjamin Franklin (1706–1790) who kept a small private book, as detailed in \"The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin\". A core technique of the Franklin Planner system involves beginning each day with 15 minutes of \"solitude and planning\".\n\nThe planner comes in four sizes:\n\n\nBecause of its overall design, the Franklin Planner system lends itself to use as a tickler file, as well as a long-range planner. Most annual versions of the page inserts for the Franklin system include yearly calendars for at least five years; future monthly calendars for at least three years; and then the current year's pages and associated monthly calendars for planning. When used as a total package, the system provides a means of tracking minute details; storage of signed agreements (especially if pages are archived in the archival binders); and tracking of business and personal expenses for taxes.\n\nThe Franklin Planner is marketed to consumers through an e-commerce web site, a US-based call center, and a GSA government contract. Marketing channels also exist outside the United States of America.\n\nThe Franklin Day Planner was first produced in 1984 by the Franklin International Institute, Inc., which later became Franklin Quest. In 1997, Franklin Quest and the Covey Leadership Center merged to become FranklinCovey. The Franklin Planner has continued to be sold under the FranklinCovey name to this day. However, in 2008, FranklinCovey sold its Consumer Solutions Business Unit, including Franklin Planner, to a private equity firm. The parent company of the Franklin Planner is currently FC Organizational Products, LLC, which is the exclusive worldwide licensee of the FranklinCovey® brand. \n"}
{"id": "18680239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18680239", "title": "GLBT Historical Society", "text": "GLBT Historical Society\n\nThe GLBT Historical Society (for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Transgender Historical Society) maintains an extensive collection of archival materials, artifacts and graphic arts relating to the history of LGBT people in the United States, with a focus on the LGBT communities of San Francisco and Northern California. The society also sponsors The GLBT History Museum, a stand-alone museum that has attracted international attention. The Swedish Exhibition Agency has cited the institution as one of just \"three established museums dedicated to LGBTQ history in the world.\"\n\nReferred to as San Francisco's \"queer Smithsonian,\" the GLBT Historical Society is one of approximately 30 LGBT archives in the United States—and is among the handful of such organizations to benefit from a paid staff and to function as a full-fledged center for exhibitions, programming, research, and production of oral histories. It is recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a tax-exempt 501(c)3 educational association and is registered with the State of California as a nonprofit corporation.\n\nThe archives, reading room and administrative offices of the GLBT Historical Society are located at 989 Market St., Lower Level, in San Francisco's Mid-Market district. The GLBT History Museum, which serves as a separate center for exhibitions and programs, is located at 4127 18th St. in the city's Castro neighborhood.\n\nThe roots of the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender Historical Society extend to the early 1980s, when Willie Walker and Greg Pennington met and discovered that they shared an interest in gay and lesbian history. They joined forces to pool their personal collections of gay and lesbian periodicals, dubbing the ad hoc initiative the San Francisco Gay Periodical Archive.\n\nAt the same time, Walker was involved in a private study group, the San Francisco Lesbian and Gay History Project; among its members were a number of individuals who would go on to make major cultural contributions, including historians Allan Bérubé and Estelle Freedman, independent scholar Jeffrey Escoffier, author and community organizer Amber Hollibaugh, and anthropologist and queer theorist Gayle Rubin.\n\nEach member of the Lesbian and Gay History Project was asked to develop a major project for presentation to the group; as his contribution, Walker produced a proposal for a historical society to preserve the records of Bay Area gay and lesbian history and to make this history available to the community. Walker presented the concept at the History Project meeting on Sept. 5, 1984, and with encouragement from the project, Walker, Pennington, project member Eric Garber and several others held five working meetings before deciding that the plan would require a much larger and more diverse organizing group.\n\nAccording to the GLBT Historical Society newsletter, \"With this in mind, Walker sent a letter to 160 organizations and 100 individuals inviting them to what turned out to be the pivotal meeting at the San Francisco Public Library on March 16, 1985. There were 63 people at the library that Saturday afternoon. 'We made the decision that everyone at the meeting was a member,' Pennington remembers. 'And we chose the name, the San Francisco Bay Area Gay and Lesbian Historical Society. On May 18, we held a public membership meeting to adopt the bylaws and elect the first board of directors.'”\n\nOver the course of its history, the Historical Society has renamed itself twice to better reflect the scope of its holdings and the range of identities and practices represented in its collections and programs. In 1990, the organization changed its name to the Gay and Lesbian Historical Society of Northern California, thus clarifying the geographical reach of its primary collections. At the end of 1999, responding to concerns raised by bisexual and transgender community members and their allies, the institution adopted its current name—the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender Historical Society—to more clearly state the inclusive mission the society had pursued since it was founded.\n\nThe archival collections of the Historical Society initially were housed in the living room of Walker's apartment at 3823 17th St. in San Francisco. In 1990, the society moved into its own space, in the basement of the Redstone Building on 16th Street near South Van Ness—a building which also housed the gay and lesbian theater company Theater Rhinoceros. The collections grew constantly, and by 1995 the Historical Society moved into a space on the fourth floor of 973 Market St.\n\nThe society moved again in 2003 to a location on the third floor of a building at 657 Mission St. that also housed other cultural institutions: the Cartoon Art Museum, San Francisco Camerawork and the Catharine Clark Gallery. The space included two dedicated exhibition galleries, a reading room, a large reserve for the archival collections, and several offices for staff and volunteers. The society regularly used one of the galleries for presentation of history talks and panel discussions, many of which were videotaped for posting on the Web. In November 2010, in anticipation of the opening of its new GLBT History Museum, the society closed its galleries and program space at 657 Mission St., while maintaining its archives, reading room and administrative offices at that location.\n\nAt the end of May 2016, the GLBT Historical Society closed its archives at 657 Mission St. in preparation for a move to an expanded space with improved facilities for researchers and staff at 989 Market St. in San Francisco. The archives reopened at the end of June 2016 at the new location, which offers 6,500 square feet devoted to archival and office space.\n\nThe Historical Society has had six executive directors during the course of its history. The organization was run directly by the Board of Directors from 1985 to 1998. In 1998, the board hired the first paid executive director, Susan Stryker, Ph.D. Stryker was succeeded in 2003 by an acting interim executive director, Daniel Bao, who served until the board hired Terence Kissack, Ph.D., in 2004. Kissack served until the end of 2006. Paul Boneberg took over the post at the beginning of January 2007, serving until May 2015. An acting executive director, Daryl Carr, then headed the society on an interim basis. The institution's board of directors appointed Terry Beswick as the new permanent executive director starting February 2, 2016; Beswick's experience includes nonprofit leadership, fundraising, government affairs and activism.\n\nFrom November 2008 through October 2009, the GLBT Historical Society sponsored a pop-up museum in the Castro District at the corner of 18th and Castro streets; the space featured an exhibition, \"Passionate Struggle: Dynamics of San Francisco's GLBT History,\" that traced more than a century of the city's LGBT history using documents and artifacts from the society's collections. The exhibition was curated by Don Romesburg, assistant professor of women's and gender studies at Sonoma State University, and Amy Sueyoshi, associate professor of race and resistance studies and sexuality studies at San Francisco State University, with assistance from a curatorial committee of academics and independent scholars.\n\nAmong the objects displayed were a preliminary study for the \"MaestraPeace\" mural on the façade of the San Francisco Women's Building, the sewing machine used by designer Gilbert Baker to create the first rainbow flag, and the suit worn by openly gay San Francisco Supervisor Harvey Milk when he was assassinated on Nov. 27, 1978. Approximately 25,000 people from throughout the United States and around the world visited the exhibition during its 11-month run.\n\nThe GLBT Historical Society is home to one of the largest LGBT historical archives in the United States, with more than 500 manuscript collections and nearly 200 non-manuscript collections; 70 linear feet of ephemera; approximately 4,000 periodical titles; approximately 80,000 photographs; approximately 3,000 imprinted T-shirts; approximately 5,000 posters; nearly 500 oral histories; approximately 1,000 hours of recorded sound; and approximately 1,000 hours of film and video. The archives also has extensive holdings of historic textiles, works of fine and graphic arts, and artifacts.\n\nAmong the noteworthy manuscript collections are more than 200 boxes of material donated by early lesbian activists Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon. Lyon and Martin were cofounders of the Daughters of Bilitis, the first lesbian organization in the United States, and their papers at the society include the complete surviving office records of the organization. The society's holdings also include a substantial group of administrative records from the Mattachine Society, the first enduring homosexual rights organization in the United States. The records form part of the papers of Donald S. Lucas, who served as secretary of the Mattachine Society during much of its history. In addition, the society's archives house the records of José Sarria, who as a candidate in the race for the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in 1961 was the first openly gay person known to have run for elected office anywhere in the world.\n\nThe society likewise holds numerous manuscript collections documenting the history of transgender individuals and movements in Northern California, including the complete papers of Lou Sullivan, founder of the pioneering female-to-male transsexual organization FTM International. Holdings focused on the history of bisexuality include the typescript and research files for \"Bisexuality and Androgyny: An Analysis,\" the 1975 master's thesis in psychology by Maggi Rubenstein, cofounder of San Francisco Sex Information and the San Francisco Bisexual Center.\n\nThe GLBT Historical Society's artifacts collection includes the personal effects of Harvey Milk, the first openly gay elected official in California. Milk's executors preserved a significant selection of his belongings after he was assassinated in 1978; they ultimately were inherited by the mother of Milk's former partner, Scott Smith (activist), who donated them to the GLBT Historical Society. The collection includes everyday objects such the battered, gold-painted kitchen table from Milk's apartment and several antique cameras that had been displayed at Castro Camera, his shop in San Francisco's Castro District. The collection also includes the suit, shirt, belt and shoes Milk was wearing when he was shot to death by assassin Dan White.\n\nSearchable catalogs of the society's manuscript collections, periodicals holdings and oral histories are available on the institution's website, and complete finding aids for the ephemera collections and many of the manuscript collections are available through the Online Archive of California (a project of the California Digital Library). \nFrom June 1985 through November 2007, the GLBT Historical Society published 50 issues of a print newsletter. Produced at various points in its run as a bimonthly, a quarterly and an irregularly issued periodical, the publication appeared under several titles: \"San Francisco Bay Area Gay and Lesbian Historical Society Newsletter\", \"Newsletter of the Gay and Lesbian Historical Society of Northern California\", \"Our Stories\" and \"It's About Time.\" In February 2008, the print newsletter was succeeded by an ongoing electronic newsletter, \"History Happens,\" published monthly until 2014, then bimonthly, before returning to a monthly schedule in late 2015. Links to the current issue and several years of back issues are available on the GLBT Historical Society website. In addition, the society published three issues of a twice-yearly print journal, \"Fabulas,\" which appeared in 2008–2009.\n\nOn Dec. 10, 2010, the GLBT Historical Society opened its GLBT History Museum in the Castro District for previews. Located in a storefront at 4127 18th St. near Castro Street, the space houses two historical galleries with room for public programs, a small museum shop and a reception area. The institution is believed to be the second full-scale, stand-alone GLBT history museum in the world, following the Schwules Museum in Berlin, which opened in 1985.\n\nThe society signed an initial five-year lease for the space in late 2010; the extensive build-out of the museum, along with a significant discount on the monthly rent, was donated by Walgreen Company, which holds the primary lease and uses about one-quarter of the storefront as an extension for operations of its adjacent satellite pharmacy. In March 2015, the society renewed the lease for a second five-year term.\n\nThe grand opening of the museum took place on the evening of Jan. 13, 2011. The newly appointed interim mayor of San Francisco, Edwin M. Lee, cut a rainbow ribbon to officially inaugurate the museum; in addition, he presented a proclamation declaring the date \"GLBT History Museum Day\" in San Francisco. It was Lee's first appearance as mayor at a public event. Also in attendance was Scott Wiener, newly elected as the member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors for the district including the Castro neighborhood — the seat once held by Harvey Milk — as well as openly gay Supervisor David Campos, who represents the neighboring Mission District. Other guests included pioneering lesbian activist Phyllis Lyon, novelist Armistead Maupin, photographer Daniel Nicoletta, former supervisor and then mayoral candidate Bevan Dufty, and noted drag personality Donna Sachet.\n\nThe launch of the institution drew extraordinary media attention from across the United States and around the world. Thousands of newspapers, magazines, television and radio broadcasts, blogs and other outlets in at least 75 countries and 38 languages covered the opening. U.S. media that ran stories include the Huffington Post, the \"Washington Post\", CNN en Español, MSNBC and CBS Radio. Outside the United States, coverage included national television in Italy and Spain; radio in Belgium, Columbia and Venezuela; and newspapers and magazines such as \"Emarat Al Youm\" (United Arab Emirates), \"Reforma\" (Mexico), \"Tempo Magazine (Indonesia)\", the \"South China Morning Post\", \"The Times of India\" and \"Večernji list\" (Croatia). Links to a sampling of stories on the museum along with the full media report are available on the museum website.\n\nThe GLBT History Museum debuted with two multimedia exhibitions. In the larger main gallery, \"Our Vast Queer Past: Celebrating San Francisco's GLBT History\" traced more than 20 key themes in the past 100 years of the history of LGBT people and communities in San Francisco and the Bay Area. Curated by historians Gerard Koskovich, Don Romesburg and Amy Sueyoshi with help from seven associate curators, the show included more than 450 objects, photographs, documents, costumes, and film and video clips. All the materials were from the society's collections, and most had never before been displayed.\n\nAmong the items in the exhibition were the 1919 honorable discharge of gay novelist Clarkson Crane, who served in World War I; the only known photograph of gay men held in the camps that the United States created for the Japanese-American internment during World War II; documents reflecting the life of female-to-male transsexual organizer and author Lou Sullivan (1950–1991); an extravagant 1983 gown worn by San Francisco drag personality the Baroness Eugenia von Dieckoff (1920–1988); and photographs, flyers and T-shirts from the lesbian sex wars of the 1980s-1990s.\n\nIn the smaller front gallery, \"Great Collections From the GLBT Historical Society Archives,\" curated by Historical Society Executive Director Paul Boneberg, offered an introduction to the kinds of materials collected by the society. Among the items on display were a distinctive example of the society's collection of textiles: the pantsuits that Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon wore to their wedding during San Francisco's \"Winter of Love\" in 2004 and again in 2008 when they became the first couple to wed during the brief period when the state's high court legalized same-sex marriage in California. On exhibit as examples of the society's artifacts collections were personal belongings of Harvey Milk. In addition, the show included examples from the society's collections of ephemera; posters; periodicals; photographs; oral history interviews; and film, video and recorded sound.\n\nThe debut show in the front gallery of the museum closed at the end of February 2012; the museum then launched a program of periodically changing exhibitions in the space.\n\nThe first of these shows opened in early March 2012: \"Life and Death in Black and White: AIDS Direct Action in San Francisco, 1985–1990.\" The exhibition focused on the work of five photographers — Jane Philomen Cleland, Patrick Clifton, Marc Geller, Rick Gerharter and Daniel Nicoletta — who used the medium of black-and-white film to document the emergence of militant protests in response to the AIDS epidemic in San Francisco. \nThe \"Bay Area Reporter\" characterized the show as \"a concise, laser-focused exhibition ... of 17 carefully selected black-and-white photographs,\" adding that it \"distills the tenor of those times and provides a microcosm of what was at stake as the federal government, either out of obliviousness, callousness, prejudice or a combination of all three, turned a blind eye and deaf ear to the proliferation and devastating impact of the disease.\"\n\nThe Huffington Post review noted that \"the exhibition highlights the pain, the rage and the bravery involved in the fight for AIDS awareness. The crisp and clean black and white photos bring a feeling of control and simplicity to a time of chaos, when an unnamed disease targeted half of the city's gay men and government agencies seemed incapable of listening. Yet in the darkest times come the brightest inspirations, as thousands of San Franciscans rose to the challenge and fought for their voices to be heard. The striking images capture protestors, students and policemen, chanting, fighting and just living their lives. In a way it is hard to believe these photos were taken so recently, from 1985-1990. And yet the photographs are good reminders of the fights we are still facing today, from marriage equality to the Occupy movement. These activists showed that civil disobedience can impact political outcomes.\"\n\nIn addition to the larger shows in its main and front galleries, The GLBT History Museum mounts temporary exhibits displayed for approximately one month each, most consisting of a single display case devoted to a timely topic or significant anniversary in San Francisco LGBT history. Eight such temporary exhibits took place during 2011.\n\nAs part of its educational mission, The GLBT History Museum offers group tours led by trained volunteer docents and occasionally by the exhibition curators. According to the museum home page, any group of 10 or more people may book a guided tour by making an appointment at least two weeks in advance. The tours have been especially popular with professors and teachers who bring their classes and with student organizations including gay-straight alliance groups from junior high schools and high schools. In its first 18 months of operation, the museum reported that it had given guided tours for more than 50 classes and student groups, including the GSA from Aragon High School in San Mateo, Calif.; classes from San Francisco State University; students from the San Francisco Police Academy; and Japanese medical students.\n\nFunding for the museum has come from presenting sponsor Levi's (Levi Strauss & Co.); the City and County of San Francisco; Starbucks; the Bob Ross Foundation; neighborhood merchants such as Badlands, Harvey's restaurant and bar, and Toad Hall; and numerous individual donors.\n\nThe GLBT History Museum is open Monday through Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sunday, noon to 5 p.m. General admission is $5.00; $3.00 for students with California student ID; free for members of the GLBT Historical Society. The first Wednesday of each month, admission is free for all visitors courtesy of a sponsorship by the Bob Ross Foundation.\n\nIn June 2016, the GLBT Historical Society announced a long-term initiative to build a \"new museum of LGBTQ history and culture\" — a world-class center for LGBT public history projected for completion in the coming decade; the center would include expanded galleries and archives, new spaces for hosting public programs and researchers, and other enhanced facilities. The organization launched the campaign, dubbed Vision 2020, with fundraising for capacity building. Early in 2017, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors passed a resolution \"calling on municipal authorities, philanthropists and business leaders to support the GLBT Historical Society’s efforts to develop a new LGBTQ museum and public history center in the city. Supervisor Jeff Sheehy introduced the resolution, which was cosponsored by Supervisor Jane Kim. The board voted unanimously in favor of the resolution.\"\n\nWith its record of more than three decades as an internationally recognized center for LGBT public-history initiatives, the GLBT Historical Society itself has increasingly attracted attention from scholars and other professionals in LGBT studies, sexuality studies, museum studies, library and information science, and other fields. Among the books and reports that analyze its work are Jennifer Tyburczy's \"Sex Museums: The Politics and Performance of Display\" (2016); \"Museums and LGBTQ: An Analysis of How Museums and Other Exhibitors Can Highlight Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer Perspectives\" (2016); \"Out of the Closet, Into the Archives: Researching Sexual Histories\" (2015), edited by Amy L. Stone and Jaime Cantrell; and \"Educational Programs: Innovative Practices for Archives and Special Collections\" (2015), edited by Kate Theimer.\n\nA number of graduate research projects also have addressed the history and activities of the Historical Society. Doctoral dissertations include Diana Wakimoto's \"Queer Community Archives in California Since 1950\" (2012) and Kelly Jacob Rawson's \"Archiving Transgender: Affects, Logics and the Power of Queer History\" (2010). Master's theses include Renaud Chantraine's \"La Patrimonialisation des traces des minorités sexuelles: étude de cas\" (2014), Amanda Kreklau's \"Collections Conundrums: Considering the First Major GLBT Museum\" (2009) and Sue Weller's \"Homeworks Art Museum\" (2003). \n\nIn addition, numerous articles about the society have been published in peer-reviewed scholarly journals; these include Martin Meeker's \"Archives Review: The Gay and Lesbian Historical Society of Northern California\"; Don Romesburg's \"Presenting the Queer Past: A Case for the GLBT History Museum\"; and Gerard Koskovich's \"Displaying the Queer Past: Purposes, Publics and Possibilities at the GLBT History Museum.\"\n\nTo expand public access to its archival holdings and historical programs, the GLBT Historical Society has sponsored a number of associated projects:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe GLBT Historical Society—and since 2011, its GLBT History Museum—have received numerous awards and honors. Following is a small sample:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33768132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33768132", "title": "GermaNet", "text": "GermaNet\n\nGermaNet is a lexical-semantic net for the German language that relates nouns, verbs, and adjectives semantically by grouping lexical units that express the same concept into \"synsets\" and by defining semantic relations between these synsets. GermaNet is free for academic use, after signing a license. GermaNet has much in common with the English WordNet and can be viewed as an on-line thesaurus or a light-weight ontology. GermaNet has been developed and maintained within various projects at the research group for General and Computational Linguistics, University of Tübingen since 1997. It has been integrated into the EuroWordNet, a multilingual lexical-semantic database.\n\nGermaNet partitions the lexical space into a set of concepts that are interlinked by semantic relations. A semantic concept is modeled by a \"synset\". A synset is a set of words (called lexical units) where all the words are taken to have the same or almost the same meaning.Thus a synset is a set of synonyms grouped under one definition, or \"gloss\".\n\nIn addition to the gloss, synsets are labeled with their syntactic function and accompanied by example sentences for each distinct meaning in the synset.\nJust as in WordNet, for each word category the semantic space is divided into a number of semantic fields closely related to major nodes in the semantic network: \"Ort\", or \"location\", \"Körper\", or \"body\", etc.\n\nThe following is an up-to-date statistics of GermaNet's version 11.0 contents (release May 2016):\n\n\nAll GermaNet data is stored in a relational PostgreSQL 5 database. The database model follows the internal structure of GermaNet: there are tables to store synsets, lexical units, conceptual and lexical relations, etc. The distribution format of all GermaNet data is XML. The two types of files, one for synsets and the other for relations, represent all data that is available in the GermaNet database.\n\nThere are several Application Programming Interfaces (API) available for Java and for Perl. These APIs are distributed freely and provide easy access to all information in various versions of GermaNet.\n\nGermaNet 11.0 (released May 2016) is free for academic. It can be distributed under one of the following types of license agreements:\n\n\n\nOpen-de-WordNet is freely available WordNet-compatible alternative to GermaNet.\n\nGermaNet has been used for a variety of applications, including semantic analysis, shallow recognition of implicit document structure, compound analysis; for analyzing sectional preferences, for word sense disambiguation, etc.\n"}
{"id": "7917449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7917449", "title": "Imbunche", "text": "Imbunche\n\nIn the Chilote folklore and Chilote mythology of the Chiloé Island in southern Chile, the imbunche or invunche (Mapudungun \"ifünche\": \"deformed person\", also \"short person\") is a legendary monster that protects the entrance to a warlock's cave.\n\nThe invunche is a deformed human with its head twisted backwards, along with having twisted arms, fingers, nose, mouth and ears. The creature walks on one foot or on three feet (actually one leg and two hands) because one of its legs is attached to the back of its neck. The invunche cannot talk, and communicates only by guttural, rough and unpleasant sounds.\n\nAccording to legend, the invunche is a first-born son less than nine days old that was kidnapped by, or sold by his parents to, a Brujo Chilote (a type of sorcerer or warlock of Chiloé). If the baby had been christened, the warlock debaptizes him.\n\nThe Brujo chilote transforms the child into a deformed hairy monster by breaking his right leg and twisting it over his back. When the boy is three months old his tongue is forked and the warlock applies a magic cream over the boy's back to cause thick hairs. During its first months the invunche is fed on black cat's milk and goat flesh, and then with human flesh from cemeteries.\n\nBesides guarding the entrance to the warlock's cave, the invunche is used by warlocks as an instrument for revenge or curses. And, because it has acquired magical knowledge over its lifetime spent guarding the cave, even if the invunche is not initiated into wizardry, it sometimes acts as the warlock's advisor.\n\nThe invunche leaves the cave only in certain circumstances, such as when the cave is destroyed or discovered and the warlock moves to another cave, or when the warlocks have need of it and carry it thrashing and yelling, scaring the townspeople and announcing misfortune to come. The invunche also comes out when the warlocks take it to the Warlock's Council.\n\nThe invunche is fed solely by warlocks and is only allowed to search for its own edibles if food is lacking inside the cave.\n\nTravel writer Bruce Chatwin gives an account of Chilote witchcraft and the invunche in his book \"In Patagonia\".\n\nBritish comic book writer Alan Moore wrote a version of the invunche very similar to Chatwin's description during his run on \"Swamp Thing\", as an antagonist to John Constantine in the first story he appeared in.\n\nJose Donoso's magical realist book \"The Obscene Bird of Night\" reinterprets invunche folklore as a way to bind a male child in a sack to prevent escape and bodily growth.\n\nIn the 2014 urban fantasy novel, \"Luke Coles and the Flower of Chiloe\", the invunche is mentioned seven times. Later in the series, invunches appear in great numbers as Righteous Province's (Recta Provincia's) common foot soldiers.\n\nIn the 2014 urban fantasy television series \"Constantine\" (based on the comics \"Swamp Thing\" and \"Hellblazer\"), the title character says that invunche are nasty creatures that tore out throats during the time of Noah, but were presumed destroyed in the Great Flood. A living invunche appears in \"The Saint of Last Resorts\".\n\nIn the 2000 novel Portrait in Sepia (Retrato en Sepia) by Isabel Allende, the character Aurora del Valle recalls being told about the Imbunche in her childhood.\n"}
{"id": "39223531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39223531", "title": "James Cuno", "text": "James Cuno\n\nJames Bash Cuno (born April 4, 1951 in St Louis) is an American art historian and curator, who currently serves as President and CEO of the J. Paul Getty Trust since 2011.\n\nCuno is the former Director of the Harvard Art Museums (1991–2002), the Courtauld Institute (2003–04), and the Art Institute of Chicago (2004–2011).\n\nCuno received his A.M. and Ph.D. in the History of Art from Harvard University in 1980 and 1985; an M.A. in the History of Art from the University of Oregon in 1978; and a B.A. in History from Willamette University in 1973. He wrote his doctoral thesis on \"Charles Philipon and La Maison Aubert: the business, politics, and public of caricature in Paris, 1820-1840\".\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "26445743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26445743", "title": "JournalSeek", "text": "JournalSeek\n\nJournalSeek is an online database covering academic journals. It includes journals published by over 5400 publishers. The database includes journal descriptions and links to the journals' homepages.\n\n"}
{"id": "10591795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10591795", "title": "Kiev Archive Museum of Transitional Period", "text": "Kiev Archive Museum of Transitional Period\n\nKiev Archive Museum of Transitional Period (, ) was a propaganda museum whose establishment was sanctioned by German occupants in 1942. The museum existed in April - October 1942. Its expositions demonstrated \"achievements\" of the German occupation and crimes of Joseph Stalin's regime. The museum's director was a famous Ukrainian historian Oleksandr Ohloblyn who used this opportunity to organize an exhibition about cultural monuments destroyed by Bolsheviks. Several historians, such as Oleksandr Hruzynsky, Svitozar Drahomanov, Natalia Polonska-Vasylenko etc. were appointed scientific advisors of the museum. \n\nHowever, the propaganda effect of the museum was very low (about 20 visitors daily), and the museum was soon closed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2771486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2771486", "title": "Kunstareal", "text": "Kunstareal\n\nThe Kunstareal (, \"art district\") is a museum quarter in the city centre of Munich, Germany.\n\nIt consists of the three \"Pinakotheken\" galleries (Alte Pinakothek, Neue Pinakothek and Pinakothek der Moderne), the Glyptothek, the Staatliche Antikensammlungen (both museums are specialized in Greek and Roman art), the Lenbachhaus, the Museum Brandhorst (a private collection of modern art) and several galleries. Also the Staatliche Sammlung für Ägyptische Kunst (the state collection of Egypt art) was moved to the Kunstareal in 2013. The history of the museums in this area of Munich began in 1816 with the erection of the Glyptothek at Königsplatz and was completed with the new building for the Egyptian Museum (2012) and the extension of the Lenbachhaus (2013). \n\nClose to the Pinakothek der Moderne the neo-classical \"Palais Dürckheim\" (constructed in 1842–44) served at times as a building dedicated to bringing art closer to the visitors, while the adjoining \"Türkentor\" (1826), the gate of a demolished royal caserne, is set to become a display window for temporary contemporary art. As of 2009 a general project plan is under discussion to ensure the integration of the different museum buildings and to improve the access to the art district from the inner city.\n\nThe Alte Pinakothek's rather monolithic structure contains a treasure trove of the works of European masters between the 14th and 18th centuries. The collection reflects the eclectic tastes of the Wittelsbachs over four centuries, and is sorted by schools over two sprawling floors. Major displays include Albrecht Dürer's Christ-like \"Self-Portrait\", his \"The Four Apostles\", Raphael's paintings\" The Canigiani Holy Family\" and\" Madonna Tempi\" as well as Peter Paul Rubens self-portrait \"Honeysuckle Bower\" and his two-storey-high \"Judgment Day\". The gallery houses one of the world's most comprehensive Rubens collections. The \"Madonna of the Carnation\" is the only painting of Leonardo da Vinci in a German gallery. \n\nThe Neue Pinakothek is especially famous for its comprehensive collection of paintings of Impressionism from Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Édouard Manet, Claude Monet, Paul Cézanne, Paul Gauguin, Edgar Degas, Vincent van Gogh and many others.\n\nThe Pinakothek der Moderne unifies the \"Bavarian State Collection of Modern and Contemporary Arts\", the \"National Collection of Works on Paper\" and the \"Museum for Design and Applied Arts\" with the Munich Technical University's \"Museum of Architecture\" in one building and is deemed one of the most important and popular museums of modern art in Europe. It houses indeed the largest collection of industrial design. The Collection of Works on Paper ranges from masterpieces of Albrecht Dürer, Rembrandt, Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci to Paul Cézanne, Henri Matisse, Paul Klee and David Hockney. \nIt is owned by the nearby Staatliche Graphische Sammlung München, a world-renowned collection of 400,000 prints, engravings and drawings dating back to the Renaissance. The Collection of Modern Art keeps a large collection of paintings of Pablo Picasso, Max Beckmann and of the painters of Die Brücke.\n\nBefore World War I, the Blaue Reiter group of artists worked in Munich. Many of their works can now be seen at the Lenbachhaus. \nThe modern Museum Brandhorst focus on the work of Andy Warhol and Cy Twombly.\n\nAn important collection of Greek and Roman art is held in the Glyptothek and the Staatliche Antikensammlung (State Antiquities Collection). King Ludwig I managed to acquire such famous pieces as the \"Medusa Rondanini\", the \"Barberini Faun\" and the \"figures from the Temple of Aphaea\" on Aegina for the Glyptothek. The internationally renowned collection of antique pottery is outstanding. The Museum für Abgüsse klassischer Bildwerke displays the world's most famous ancient Greek and Roman sculptures as plaster casts. \n\nThe Kunstareal was further augmented by the completion of the Staatliche Sammlung für Ägyptische Kunst (Egyptian Museum). This museum displays exhibits from all periods of Ancient Egypt's history but also reliefs from Assyria and a lion from the Ishtar Gate of Babylon.\n\nNearby the Kunstareal are several natural scientific museums of the Bavarian state, like the \"Paläontologisches Museum München\", the \"Geological Museum\" and the \"Museum Reich der Kristalle\" as the public part of the \"Mineralogische Staatssammlung Muenchen\" (Bavarian State Collection for Mineralogy).\n\n"}
{"id": "52878069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52878069", "title": "L'assassino è ancora tra noi", "text": "L'assassino è ancora tra noi\n\nL'assassino è ancora tra noi is a 1986 Italian horror film written and directed by Camillo Teti, and co-written by Ernesto Gastaldi and Giuliano Carnimeo. It is loosely based on the crimes of the Italian serial killer known as \"the Monster of Florence\".\n\nA couple drives to a secluded lovers' lane on the outskirts of Florence to have sex, and is gunned down by a gloved prowler, who uses a knife and a tree branch to sexually mutilate the body of the female victim. The double homicide is the latest in a series of them, the work of a serial killer dubbed \"Il Mostro\" who Christiana Marelli, a criminology student, is researching for her thesis, to the dismay of her professor, the local police, and her doctor boyfriend, Alex.\n\nAs Christiana investigates Il Mostro, she begins receiving strange telephone calls, and finds herself being shadowed by a stalker, who at one point attempts to break into her apartment while she is home alone. A bartender who had offered to meet with Christiana to provide her with information is later found hanged, and Christiana begins to suspect that her boyfriend is Il Mostro due to a combination of mounting circumstantial evidence, Alex's conspicuous absences during all of the murders, and the fact that she had told him about her planned rendezvous with the barkeep shortly before the man was found dead.\n\nAfter a couple whom she knew personally is murdered by Il Mostro, Christiana attends a séance in the hope that it can summon the victims' spirits, and shed light on the identity of Il Mostro. During the ceremony, the medium has a vision of Il Mostro butchering a pair of camping lovers, and spontaneously develops a wound similar to one that Il Mostro had inflicted upon one of the new victims. Christiana leaves the séance and races to the theater that she had last seen Alex at; she finds him there, which seemingly puts to rest her suspicions of him being Il Mostro. The film ends with Christiana making her way to the seat next to Alex (at one point muttering \"excuse me\" to the viewer) before settling in to watch \"L'assassino è ancora tra noi\".\n\n\n\"L'assassino è ancora tra noi\" was derisively deemed \"incredibly boring\" by Moviefone's Alison Nastasi, who went to say that while the film did have \"a few disturbing scenes\" they were not enough to save it from the \"banal dialogue\" and \"bad characters\" that made it \"a one way trip to dullsville\".\n"}
{"id": "23700183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23700183", "title": "LGBT themes in African diasporic mythologies", "text": "LGBT themes in African diasporic mythologies\n\nVarious LGBT themes are present in different in African diasporic mythologies, primary among them being Voodoo.\n\nA large number of spirits or deities (lwa) exist in Haitian and Louisiana Voodoo. These lwa may be regarded as families of individuals or as a singular entity with distinct aspects, with links to particular areas of life.\n\nSome lwa have particular links with magic, ancestor worship or death such as the Ghedes and Barons. A number of these are further particularly associated with transgenderism or same-sex interactions. These include Ghede Nibo, a spirit caring for those who die young. He is sometimes depicted as an effeminate drag queen and inspires those he inhabits to lascivious sexuality of all kinds, especially transgender or lesbian behaviour in women. Ghede Nibo's parents are Baron Samedi and Maman Brigitte; Baron Samedi is the leader of the Ghedes and Barons and is depicted as a bisexual dandy or occasionally as transgender, wearing a top-hat and frock coat along with a women's skirts and shoes. Samedi has a tendency toward \"lascivious movements\" that cross gender boundaries and also imply a lust for anal sex.\n\nOther barons displaying gay behaviour are Baron Lundy and Baron Limba, who are lovers and teach a type of homoerotic nude wrestling at their school, believed to increase magical potency. Baron Oua Oua, who often manifests with a childlike aspect, has been called the baron \"most closely linked to homosexuality\" by Voodoo practictioners.\n\nAnother lwa, Erzulie, is associated with love, sensuality and beauty. Erzulie can manifest aspects that are LGBT-related, including transgender or amazonian traits, in addition to traditionally feminine guises. When inhabiting men, these aspects can result in transgender or homoerotic behaviour, whereas they may result in lesbianism or anti-male sentiment in women. Erzulie Freda is seen as the protector of gay men, and Erzulie Dantor is associated with lesbians.\n\nSantería and Candomblé are syncretic religions derived from Yoruba diasporic beliefs and Catholicism, most prevalent in South Americas, including Cuba and Brazil. Their mythologies have many similarities to that of Yoruba, and contains a pantheon of Oríshas (spirits), comparable to (and often identified with) the lwa of Voodoo.\n\nIn one Cuban Santería \"pataki\", or mythological story, the sea goddess Yemaha is tricked into incestuous sex with her son Shango. To hide her shame at this event, she banished her other two sons, Inle and Abbata, to live at the bottom of the ocean, additionally cutting out Inle's tongue and making Abbata deaf. As a result of their isolation and loneliness, Inle and Abbata become passionate friends and then lovers, able to communicate emphatically. This pataki is used to explain the origin of incest, muteness, and deafness in addition to homosexuality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19952271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19952271", "title": "List of Earthdawn books", "text": "List of Earthdawn books\n\nA list of the English-language Earthdawn books with their SKU numbers. \"Earthdawn\" has also had German, French, Japanese and Polish editions.\n\nEarthdawn was created and published by FASA Corporation from 1993 to 1999. This is known as the First Edition. The license was subsequently picked up by two companies: Living Room Games, who published the Second Edition from 2001 to 2006, and RedBrick, who published a revised First Edition termed \"Earthdawn Classic\" from 2005 to 2008 and a Third Edition from 2009 until 2012. FASA Games Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of FASA Corporation, announced a Fourth Edition via Kickstarter in 2013, to be released in 2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12215720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12215720", "title": "List of airline codes (W)", "text": "List of airline codes (W)\n"}
{"id": "3149151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3149151", "title": "List of airports by ICAO code: D", "text": "List of airports by ICAO code: D\n\nFormat of entries is:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "488536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=488536", "title": "List of loanwords in Indonesian", "text": "List of loanwords in Indonesian\n\nThe Indonesian language has absorbed many loanwords from other languages, including Sanskrit, Tamil, Hindi, Arabic, Persian, Portuguese, Dutch, Chinese, Japanese, and other Austronesian languages.\n\nIndonesian differs from the form of Malay used in Malaysia in a number of aspects, primarily due to the different influences both languages experienced and also due to the fact that the majority of Indonesians speak another language as their mother tongue. Indonesia functioning as lingua franca for speakers of 200 various languages across the archipelago.\n\nConversely, many words of Malay-Indonesian origin have also been borrowed into English. Words borrowed into English (e.g., bamboo, orangutan, dugong, amok, and even \"cooties\") generally entered through Malay language by way of British colonial presence in Malaysia and Singapore, similar to the way the Dutch have been borrowing words from the various native Indonesian languages. One exception is \"bantam\", derived from the name of the Indonesian province Banten in Western Java (see Oxford American Dictionary, 2005 edition). Another is \"lahar\" which is Javanese for a volcanic mudflow. Still other words taken into modern English from Malay/Indonesian probably have other origins (e.g., \"satay\" from Tamil, or \"ketchup\" from Chinese).\n\nDuring development, various native terms (mostly Javanese) from all over the archipelago made their way into the language. The Dutch adaptation of the Malay language during the colonial period resulted in the incorporation of a significant number of Dutch loanwords and vocabulary. This event significantly affected the original Malay language, which gradually developed into modern Indonesian. Most terms are documented in Kamus Besar Bahasa Indonesia.\n\nThe study of Indonesian etymology and loan words reflects its historical and social context. Examples include the early Sanskrit borrowings, probably during the Srivijaya period, the borrowings from Arabic and Persian, especially during the time of the establishment of Islam, and words borrowed from Dutch during the colonial period. Linguistic history and cultural history are clearly linked.\n\n\nBut the processes may also be ‘out of period’; for example, Indonesian words are still being concocted from Sanskrit, and the influence of the Dutch language certainly continued after the Dutch themselves left.\n\nIndonesian has also generalized brand names into common (lower-case) nouns as generic name. For example, \"sanyo\" refers to any electrical well pump, regardless of manufacturer or \"odol\" as all of toothpastes. This is similar to the type of generalization that occurs in English words like \"xerox\" or \"tampax\" or \"polaroid\".\n\nMost of Indonesian's vocabulary is natively derived from Malay, but some might ultimately be loanwords from Minang language. Yet it is unclear, since Malay and Minang are closely related, and some might consider Minang to have been an ancestral dialect of Malay.\nCompared to the Malay language spoken as the native regional language in Sumatra and the Malay peninsula or the standardized version of Malaysian, Indonesian differs profoundly by the large amount of Javanese loanwords incorporated into their already rich vocabulary. This is mostly contributed by Java's position as the center of Indonesian politics, education, and culture, since the capital is located in Jakarta on Java island, albeit in the area where the Javanese are not the majority. The disproportionate number of Javanese that dominate Indonesian politics is reflected by the fact that six out of seven Indonesian presidents have been ethnic Javanese. The result is that the Javanese began to pour their own vocabulary into Indonesian to describes terms and words that do not have exact counterparts in the Malay language. It is also important to note that most of Indonesian's Sanskrit loanwords have been transmitted through Old Javanese, a language whose Sanskrit borrowings number almost 50% of the total vocabulary.\nBesides Javanese, Sundanese is another local language that has influenced Indonesian's vocabulary, albeit to a lesser extent. This can be attributed to the fact that the capital, Jakarta, was formerly a part of West Java, a province which, together with Banten, before it too was divided, constituted the \"Pasundan\" (Sundanese world), the most significant non-Javanese region in an otherwise Javanese-dominated Java island. Some of the most populous cities in Indonesia are also located in the \"Pasundan\", including West Java's capital, Bandung, and Jakarta's four satellite cities (Bekasi, Bogor, Depok, and Tangerang).\n\nBetawi is a Malay-based creole that arose from influences by foreign traders who stopped at the capital, Jakarta, including those from China and Arabia. Most of its speakers are inhabitants of Jakarta, and its influence upon Indonesian is attributed to its frequent usage in Indonesian mass media, including radio and television. Its status as a \"hip\" language by other portions of Indonesian society is another contributing factor as well.\n\nBalinese, or simply Bali, is a Malayo-Polynesian language spoken by 3.3 million people (as of 2000) on the Indonesian island of Bali as well as northern Nusa Penida, western Lombok and eastern Java.\n\nAlthough Hinduism and Buddhism are no longer the major religions of Indonesia, Sanskrit, the language vehicle for these religions, is still held in high esteem, and its status is comparable with that of Latin in English and other Western European languages. Sanskrit is also the main source for neologisms; these are usually formed from Sanskrit roots. For example, the name of Jayapura city (former Hollandia) and Jayawijaya Mountains (former Orange Range) in the Indonesian province of Papua were coined in the 1960s; both are Sanskrit origin name to replace its Dutch colonial names. Some Indonesian contemporary medals of honor and awards, such as Bintang Mahaputra medal, Kalpataru award and Adipura award, are also Sanskrit derived names.\n\nThe loanwords from Sanskrit cover many aspects of religion, art and everyday life. The Sanskrit influence came from contacts with India long ago before the 1st century. The words are either directly borrowed from India or through the intermediary of the Old Javanese language. In the classical language of Java, Old Javanese, the number of Sanskrit loanwords is far greater. The Old Javanese — English dictionary by Prof. P.J. Zoetmulder, S.J. (1982) contains no fewer than 25,500 entries. Almost half are Sanskrit loanwords. Sanskrit loanwords, unlike those from other languages, have entered the basic vocabulary of Indonesian to such an extent that, for many, they are no longer perceived to be foreign.\n\nPali (Pāli) is a Prakrit language and belongs to the Indo-European language family together with Sanskrit. As Sanskrit is the language vehicle of Hinduism, Pali is the language vehicle for Buddhism, especially the Theravada tradition which is mainly adhered to by Buddhists within Indosphere Southeast Asia. Virtually every word in Pāḷi has cognates in the other Middle Indo-Aryan languages, the Prakrits. The relationship to Vedic Sanskrit is less direct and more complicated; the Prakrits were descended from Old Indo-Aryan vernaculars.\n\nHindi (Devanagari: हिन्दी, IAST: Hindī) is a standardised and Sanskritised register of the Hindustani language. Hindi is an Indo-Germanic or Indo-European language. It is descended from Sanskrit and is considered part of the New Indo-Aryan subgroup.\n\nLoanwords from Tamil, while also an Indian language (though not Indo-European like Sanskrit), mainly exist in cuisine, like Chinese and unlike Sanskrit. It is a Dravidian language and not an Indo-Aryan language. However, Hinduism had great impact in Tamil, there are several Indo-Aryan loanwords in Tamil and they are possibility to list them in Indo-Aryan loanwords, such as Sanskrit.\n\nInteraction between Tamil speakers and Malay speakers has been established from ancient time. Tamil influence has been around such as Palava usage as ancient script in Indonesia (Palava dynasty was existed on 275 CE–897 CE) and Chola invasion of Srivijaya in 1025. It mainly entered the lexicon of Malay (and by extension, Indonesian) with the immigration of South Indian traders who settled around the Strait of Malacca.\n\nThe loanwords from Arabic are mainly concerned with religion, in particular with Islam. Allah is the word for God even in Christian Bible translations. Many early Bible translators, when they came across some unusual Hebrew words or proper names, used the Arabic cognates. In the newer translations, this practice has been discontinued. They now turn to Greek names or use the original Hebrew word. For example, the name Jesus was initially translated as \"'Isa\", but is now spelt as \"Yesus\". Psalms used to be translated as \"Zabur\", the Arabic name, but now it is called \"Mazmur\" which corresponds more with Hebrew.\n\nThe Chinese loanwords are usually concerned with cuisine, trade or often just exclusively things Chinese. According to the 2000 census, the relative number of people of Chinese descent in Indonesia (termed the \"peranakan\") is almost 1% (totaling to about 3 million people, although this may likely be an underestimate due to an anti-Chinese sentiment that exists in some circles of the population), yet the \"peranakan\" are the most successful when it comes to business, trade, and cuisine. Words of Chinese origin (presented here with accompanying Hokkien/ Mandarin pronunciation derivatives as well as traditional and simplified characters) include \"pisau\" (匕首 bǐshǒu – knife), \"mie\" (T:麵, S:面, Hokkien mī – noodles), \"lumpia\" (潤餅 (Hokkien = lūn-piáⁿ) – springroll), \"teko\" (T:茶壺, S:茶壶 = cháhú [Mandarin], teh-ko [Hokkien] = teapot), 苦力 kuli = 苦　khu (bitter) and 力　li (energy) and even the widely used slang terms \"gua\" and \"lu\" (from the Hokkien 'goa' 我 and 'lu/li' 你 – meaning 'I/ me' and 'you'). Almost all loanwords in Indonesian of Chinese origin come from Hokkien (福建) or Hakka (客家).\n\nJapanese is an East Asian language spoken by about 126 million people, primarily in Japan, where it is the official language and national language. The influx of Japanese loanword can be classified into two periods, Japanese colonial administration period (1942–1945) and globalisation of Japanese popular culture (1980-now). As Indonesian is written using Latin script, Japanese romanisation systems influence the spelling in Indonesian.\n\nIn contrast with Chinese and Japanese, Korean loanword mostly related to Korean culture. These loanword is attributed to increasing popularity of South Korean culture. Since the turn of the 21st century, South Korea has emerged as a major exporter of popular culture and tourism, aspects which have become a significant part of its burgeoning economy. This phenomenon is called Korean Wave.\n\nThe European influence on Indonesian is largely related to European intervention and colonialism. The most significant consequence is the continued use of the Latin alphabet instead of various local scripts. \n\nThe Portuguese arrived first in the archipelago and influenced the original Malay language after their conquest of Malacca. Portuguese dominance over trade in the region and control of the spice islands of Moluccas significantly increased Portuguese influence, as did the introduction of Christianity in the region. \n\nHowever, Dutch has had the most influence on the language, as a result of the Dutch having controlled Indonesia for 300 years after eliminating the Portuguese as a player in the archipelago. The Dutch language itself wasn't properly introduced into the archipelago before 1799, when the Netherlands' crown took over the colony from the already bankrupt VOC (Dutch East India company). Previously, the Malay language had adopted by the VOC due to its trade and diplomatic benefit, which led to large numbers of loanwords being introduced into the language. \n\nEnglish has also exerted a certain influence on the archipelago's language, being the third most favored foreign language by the educated in colonial days. More recently, English has played an increasingly large role in the nation's official language as a result of globalization.\n\nAlongside Malay, Portuguese was the \"lingua franca\" for trade throughout the archipelago from the sixteenth century through to the early nineteenth century. The Portuguese were among the first westerners to sail east to the \"Spice Islands\". Loanwords from Portuguese were mainly connected with articles the early European traders and explorers brought to Southeast Asia.\nAs Portuguese, Spanish loan word come from colonialism in East Indies. In 1606, the Spaniards established some form of trade links with the Maluku Islands. In 1529, Charles I of Spain relinquished all claims to the Spice Islands to Portugal in the treaty of Zaragoza. Thus, there are fewer loanwords from Spanish than Portuguese or Dutch.\n\nThe former colonial power, the Netherlands, left an extensive imprint on Indonesian vocabulary. These Dutch loanwords, as well as other non Italo-Iberian European language loanwords which were introduced via Dutch, cover all aspects of life. Some Dutch loanwords possessing clusters of multiple consonants pose difficulties for speakers of Indonesian. This problem is usually solved by the insertion of the schwa. For example, Dutch \"schroef\" → \"sekrup\" . Many Indonesian vocabulary ending \"-i\" (e.g.:administras-i) can also be traced to the influence of Dutch vocabulary \"-ie\" (e.g.:administrat-ie). The months from January (Januari) to December (Desember) used in Indonesian are also derived from Dutch. It is estimated that 10,000 words in the Indonesian language can be traced back to the Dutch language.\n\nIt is notable that some of the loanwords that exist in both Indonesian and Malaysian languages are different in spelling and pronunciation mainly due to how they derived their origins: Malaysian utilizes words that reflect the English usage (as used by its former colonial power, the British), while Indonesian uses a Latinate form reflected in the Dutch usage (e.g. aktiviti (Malaysian) vs. aktivitas (Indonesian), universiti (Malaysian) vs. universitas (Indonesian)).\nMany English words are adopted in Indonesian through globalization, due to this however many Indonesians mistake words that were originally adopted from Dutch with English due to the Germanic traces that exist in the two languages (both are Indo-European Germanic languages from the same branch, the West Germanic).\n\nThere is several words come from German language. German language is a West Germanic language that is mainly spoken in Central Europe. The three most prevalent West Germanic languages are English, German, and Dutch.\n\nThe North Germanic languages make up one of the three branches of the Germanic languages, a sub-family of the Indo-European languages, along with the West Germanic languages and the extinct East Germanic languages. The language group is sometimes referred to as the \"Nordic languages\", a direct translation of the most common term used among Danish, Swedish, Icelandic and Norwegian scholars and laypeople.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1616713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616713", "title": "List of reporting marks: E", "text": "List of reporting marks: E\n\n"}
{"id": "9801146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9801146", "title": "Lortel Archives", "text": "Lortel Archives\n\nThe Lortel Archives, or the Internet Off-Broadway Database (IOBDb), is an online database that catalogues theatre productions shown Off-Broadway.\n\nThe archives are named in honor of actress and theatrical producer Lucille Lortel.\n\n"}
{"id": "45648959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45648959", "title": "Marx–Engels–Lenin Institute", "text": "Marx–Engels–Lenin Institute\n\nThe Marx–Engels–Lenin Institute, established in Moscow in 1919 as the Marx–Engels Institute (), was a Soviet library and archive attached to the Communist Academy. The institute was later attached to the governing Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and served as a research center and publishing house for officially published works of Marxist doctrine.\n\nThe Marx–Engels Institute gathered unpublished manuscripts by Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, Vladimir Lenin and other leading Marxist theoreticians as well as collecting books, pamphlets and periodicals related to the socialist and organized labor movements. By 1930, the facility's holdings included more than 400,000 books and journals and more than 55,000 original and photocopy documents by Marx and Engels alone, making it one of the largest and richest holdings of socialist-related material in the world.\n\nIn February 1931, director of the Marx–Engels Institute David Riazanov and others on the staff were purged for ideological reasons. In November of that same year, the Marx–Engels Institute was merged with the larger and less scholarly Lenin Institute (established in 1923) to form the Marx–Engels–Lenin Institute.\n\nThe institute was the coordinating authority for the systematic organization of documents released in the multi-volume works \"Marx-Engels-Gesamtausgabe\" (\"Marx-Engels Collected Works\"), Lenin's \"Polnoe sobranie sochineniia\" (\"Complete Collected Works\"), Joseph Stalin's \"Sochineniia\" (\"Works\") and numerous other official publications. The institute was officially terminated in November 1991, with the bulk of its archival holdings now residing with a successor organization, the Russian State Archive of Socio-Political History (RGASPI).\n\nThe Marx–Engels Institute was established in 1919 by the government of Soviet Russia as a branch of the Communist Academy, intended as an academic research facility to conduct historical studies and to collect documents deemed relevant to the new socialist regime. First director of the facility, located in Moscow, was David Riazanov.\n\nThe institute assembled and maintained a research library devoted to socialist-related theme, amassing in a little over 10 years a collection of some 400,000 books, pamphlets, and journals, 15,000 manuscripts and 175,000 photocopies of original documents held elsewhere. Among these were 55,000 manuscripts by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels alone—far and away the single most important accumulation of such material.\n\nThe institute included an academic staff which engaged in research on historical and topical themes of interest to the regime. The institute included sections devoted to the history of the First and Second Internationals, the history of Germany, the history of France, the history of Great Britain, the history of the United States, the history of the countries of Southern Europe and the history of international relations. Also included were sections working in philosophy, economics, political science and the history of socialism in Slavic countries.\n\nThe main research orientation of the facility was towards history rather than other social sciences. By 1930, of the 109 employed by the Marx–Engels Institute, fully 87 were historians. While working under the watchful eyes of the All-Union Communist Party, the Marx–Engels Institute was not a one-party affair in its formative decade, with just 39 of its staff members also members of the Communist Party in 1930.\n\nDuring its first decade, the institute published an array of books by the likes of Georgi Plekhanov, Karl Kautsky, Franz Mehring, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, David Ricardo and Adam Smith as well as the anticipated multi-volume works of Marx and Engels. The institute also published two regular academic journals, \"Arkhiv Karla Marksa i Friderikha Engel'sa\" (\"Archive of Karl Marx and Frederick Engels\") and \"Letopis' marksizma\" (\"Marxist Chronicle\").\n\nThe Lenin Institute began as an independent archival project, established by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1923 to gather manuscripts with a view to publication of a scholarly edition of Vladimir Lenin's collected works. This work was accomplished through the publication of a thick periodical called \"Leninskii sbornik\" (\"Lenin Miscellany\"), some 25 numbers of which were published between 1924 and 1933.\n\nThe mission of the Lenin Institute was expanded in 1924 by the 13th Congress of the Russian Communist Party to include the \"study and dissemination of Leninism among the broad masses within and outside the party\", namely an enlarged purview which rendered obsolete the previously existing (Istpart). In 1928, Istpart was dissolved and its functions fully absorbed by the Lenin Institute.\n\nThe Lenin Institute was a slightly larger entity than the Marx–Engels Institute, with a staff of 158 in 1929, but it did not share the reputation for impartial scholarship enjoyed by the older research library and scholarly think tank. The Lenin Institute was initially headed by Lev Kamenev, followed by Ivan Skvortsov-Stepanov and after his death in 1928 by .\n\nIn February 1931 as part of the Menshevik Trial in February 1931, economist Isaak Rubin—a former employee of the Marx–Engels Institute—implicated the head of the institute David Riazanov as part of the conspiracy, with Riazanov accused of having hidden Menshevik documents in the facility. Although modern scholars consider the accusation in the February show trial to have been extremely dubious, Riazanov was nevertheless arrested and sent into exile outside of Moscow. A purge of Marx–Engels Institute staff deemed to be ideologically suspicious followed. In the wake of the ideological purges of the Marx–Engels Institute in November 1931, the institute was merged with the larger Lenin Institute to form the Marx–Engels–Lenin Institute.\n\nThe Marx–Engels–Lenin Institute was subsequently renamed multiple times. In 1952, the facility's formal attachment to the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union was formally noted with the expanded moniker Marx-Engels–Lenin Institute of the CC CPSU (). The name of deceased Soviet leader Joseph Stalin was added in 1956, with the institute formally becoming the Marx–Engels–Lenin–Stalin Institute of the CC CPSU.\n\nThis remained in place until the onset of de-Stalinization following the so-called Secret Speech of Nikita Khrushchev in 1956. At this point, the name changed to Institute of Marxism–Leninism of the CC CPSU (). This name remained unaltered for nearly 35 years, when turmoil in the Soviet Union brought about a name change to Institute of the Theory and History of Socialism of the CC CPSU (). The institute formally ceased to exist in November 1991 following the fall of the Soviet Union, with the institute's library and archive transferred to control to a new entity called the Russian Independent Institute for Social and National Problems.\n\nThe Central Party Archive of the institute was placed under the control of the Russian Ministry of Culture and eventually emerged as the Russian State Archive of Socio-Political History (RGASPI).\n\n"}
{"id": "19541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19541", "title": "Muslim", "text": "Muslim\n\nA Muslim () is someone who follows or practices Islam, a monotheistic Abrahamic religion. Muslims consider the Quran, their holy book, to be the verbatim word of God as revealed to the Islamic prophet and messenger Muhammad. The majority of Muslims also follow the teachings and practices of Muhammad (\"sunnah\") as recorded in traditional accounts (\"hadith\"). \"Muslim\" is an Arabic word meaning \"submitter\" (to God).\n\nThe beliefs of Muslims include: that God ( \"\") is eternal, transcendent and absolutely one (\"tawhid\"); that God is incomparable, self-sustaining and neither begets nor was begotten; that Islam is the complete and universal version of a primordial faith that has been revealed before through many prophets including Abraham, Ishmael, Isaac, Moses, and Jesus; that these previous messages and revelations have been partially changed or corrupted over time (\"tahrif\") and that the Qur'an is the final unaltered revelation from God (Final Testament).\n\nThe religious practices of Muslims are enumerated in the Five Pillars of Islam: the declaration of faith (\"shahadah\"), daily prayers (\"salat\"), fasting during the month of Ramadan (\"sawm\"), almsgiving (\"zakat\"), and the pilgrimage to Mecca (\"hajj\") at least once in a lifetime.\n\nTo become a Muslim and to convert to Islam, it is essential to utter the \"Shahada\", one of the Five Pillars of Islam, a declaration of faith and trust that professes that there is only one God \"(Allah)\" and that Muhammad is God's messenger. It is a set statement normally recited in Arabic: \"lā ʾilāha ʾillā-llāhu muḥammadun rasūlu-llāh\" () \"There is no god but Allah, (and) Muhammad is the messenger of God.\"\n\nIn Sunni Islam, the shahada has two parts: \"la ilaha illa'llah\" (there is no god but God), and \"Muhammadun rasul Allah\" (Muhammad is the messenger of God), which are sometimes referred to as the first \"shahada\" and the second \"shahada\". The first statement of the shahada is also known as the \"tahlīl\".\n\nIn Shia Islam, the shahada also has a third part, a phrase concerning Ali, the first Shia Imam and the fourth Rashid caliph of Sunni Islam: (), which translates to \"Ali is the \"wali\" of God.\n\nThe word \"muslim\" (, ; , , or \"moslem\" , ) is the active participle of the same verb of which \"islām\" is a verbal noun, based on the triliteral \"S-L-M\" \"to be whole, intact\". A female adherent is a \"muslima\" () (also transliterated as \"Muslimah\" ). The plural form in Arabic is \"muslimūn\" () or \"muslimīn\" (), and its feminine equivalent is \"muslimāt\" (). The Arabic form \"muslimun\" is the stem IV participle of the triliteral \"S-L-M\".\n\nThe ordinary word in English is \"Muslim\". It is sometimes transliterated as \"Moslem\", which is an older spelling. The word \"Mosalman\" (, alternatively \"Mussalman\") is a common equivalent for \"Muslim\" used in Central and South Asia. Until at least the mid-1960s, many English-language writers used the term \"Mohammedans\" or \"Mahometans\". Although such terms were not necessarily intended to be pejorative, Muslims argue that the terms are offensive because they allegedly imply that Muslims worship Muhammad rather than God. Other obsolete terms include \"Muslimite\" and \"Muslimist\".\n\nMusulmán/Mosalmán () is a synonym for \"Muslim\" and is modified from Arabic. It is the origin of the Spanish word ', the (dated) German ', the French word \"musulman\", the Polish words ' and ', the Portuguese word ', the Italian word ' or ', the Romanian word \"musulman\" and the Greek word (all used for a Muslim). In English it was sometimes spelled Mussulman and has become archaic in usage.\n\nApart from Persian, Spanish, Polish, Portuguese, Italian, and Greek, the term could be found, with obvious local differences, in Armenian, Dari, Pashto, Urdu, Hindi, Bengali, Marathi, Panjabi, Turkish, Kazakh, Uzbek, Kyrgyz, Azeri, Maltese, Hungarian, Czech, Bosnian, Bulgarian, Russian, Serbian, Ukrainian, Romanian, Dutch, and Sanskrit.\n\nThe Muslim philosopher Ibn Arabi said:\n\nThe Qur'an describes many prophets and messengers within Judaism and Christianity, and their respective followers, as Muslim: Adam, Noah, Abraham, Ishmael, Jacob, Moses, and Jesus and his apostles are all considered to be Muslims in the Qur'an. The Qur'an states that these men were Muslims because they submitted to God, preached His message and upheld His values, which included praying, charity, fasting and pilgrimage. Thus, in Surah 3:52 of the Qur'an, Jesus' disciples tell him, \"We believe in God; and you be our witness that we are Muslims (\"wa-shahad be anna muslimūn\").\" In Muslim belief, before the Qur'an, God had given the Tawrat (Torah) to Moses, the Zabur (Psalms) to David and the Injil (Gospel) to Jesus, who are all considered important Muslim prophets.\n\nThe most populous Muslim-majority country is Indonesia, home to 12.7% of the world's Muslims, followed by Pakistan (11.0%), Bangladesh (9.2%), and Egypt (4.9%). About 20% of the world's Muslims lives in the Middle East and North Africa.\n\nSizable minorities are also found in India, China, Russia, Ethiopia, the Americas, Australia and parts of Europe. The country with the highest proportion of self-described Muslims as a proportion of its total population is Morocco. Converts and immigrant communities are found in almost every part of the world.\n\nOver 75–90% of Muslims are Sunni. The second and third largest sects, Shia and Ahmadiyya, make up 10–20%, and 1% respectively.\n\nWith about 1.8 billion followers (2015), almost a quarter of earth's population, Islam is the second-largest and the fastest-growing religion in the world. due primarily to the young age and high fertility rate of Muslims, with Muslim having a rate of (3.1) compared to the world average of (2.5). According to the same study, religious switching has no impact on Muslim population, since the number of people who embrace Islam and those who leave Islam are roughly equal.\n\nA Pew Center study in 2016 found that Muslims have the highest number of adherents under the age of 15 (or 34% of the total Muslim population) of any major religion, while only 7% are aged 60+ (the smallest percentage of any major religion). According to the same study, Muslims have the highest fertility rates (3.1) of any major religious group. The study also found that Muslims have the lowest average levels of education after Hindus, with an average of 5.6 years of schooling. About 36% of all Muslims have no formal schooling, and Muslims have the lowest average levels of higher education of any major religious group, with only 8% having graduate and post-graduate degrees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52500981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52500981", "title": "O Oes Gwrtheyrn Gwrtheneu", "text": "O Oes Gwrtheyrn Gwrtheneu\n\nO Oes Gwrtheyrn Gwrtheneu (From the Age of Vortigern the Most Slender) is a fourteenth-century Welsh chronicle. The work spans the age from Vortigern to the reign of John, King of England.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155662", "title": "Ornithological handbook", "text": "Ornithological handbook\n\nAn ornithological handbook is a book (or series of books) giving summarised information either about the birds of a particular geographical area or a particular taxonomic group of birds. Some handbooks cover many aspects of their subjects' biology, whereas others focus on specific topics, particularly identification.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47841502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47841502", "title": "Penalties in English law", "text": "Penalties in English law\n\nPenalties in English law are contractual terms which are not enforceable in the courts because of their penal character. Since at least 1720 it has been accepted as a matter of English contract law that if a provision in a contract constitutes a penalty, then that provision is unenforceable by the parties. However, the test for what constitutes a penalty has evolved over time. The Supreme Court most recently restated the law in relation to contractual penalties in the co-joined appeals of \"Cavendish Square Holding BV v Talal El Makdessi\", and \"ParkingEye Ltd v Beavis\".\n\nThe law relating to contractual penalties in England has been entirely developed by judges at common law without general statutory intervention. The Supreme Court has noted that \"[t]he penalty rule in England is an ancient, haphazardly constructed edifice which has not weathered well\".\n\nHowever, in addition to the common law rules relating to penalties, there are statutes which make express provision for avoidance of onerous clauses, such as the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 and the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999.\n\nThe origin of the common law rules relating to penalties is often taken to be the decision of the House of Lords in the \"Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co Ltd v New Garage & Motor Co Ltd\" decision in 1914. But the jurisdiction is actually much older. The oldest reported case relating to penalties appears to date from 1720, but even that case is decided on the basis that penalties were already generally considered unenforceable.\n\nIn their decision in \"Makdessi\" the Supreme Court reviewed the historical origins of the rule against penalty clauses in contracts. The law originated in the fifteenth century in relation to \"defeasible bonds\" (sometimes called penal bonds) which were a contractual promise to pay money, which might be discharged if certain obligations were performed (and if the obligations were not performed, then the payment terms under the bond could be enforced). However the courts of equity regarded these as what they really were - security for performance of the underlying obligation - and were prepared to restrain enforcement of such bonds where the defaulting party paid any damages due at common law. In time the courts of common law began to mirror this approach and stay any proceedings on such bonds where the defendant gave an undertaking to pay damages together with interest and costs. The position of the common law courts was adopted and codified in the Administration of Justice Act 1696 and later the Administration of Justice Act 1705. Accordingly, procedurally relief in relation to such bonds was thereafter administered entirely by the common law courts without intervention by the courts of equity. However, the courts of equity began to develop concurrent remedies for relief from forfeiture. With the decline of the use of defeasible bonds the procedural mechanics became increasingly applied to liquidated damages clauses.\n\nHowever, the decision in \"Dunlop\" in 1914 was taken to authoritatively restate the law. That case concerned what was expressed to be a liquidated damages clause. The courts had to determine whether the clause was in fact a penalty. The leading judgment was given by Lord Dunedin, who opined as follows:\n\nThe rule is one which judges over the years have confessed difficulty with. In \"Astley v Weldon\" Lord Eldon admitted (\"not for the first time\" according to the Supreme Court in \"Makdessi\") to being \"much embarrassed in ascertaining the principle on which [the rule was] founded\". In \"Wallis v Smith\", Sir George Jessel MR similarly confessed: \"The ground of that doctrine I do not know\". In \"Robophone Facilities Ltd v Blank\" Diplock LJ famously said that he would make \"no attempt where so many others have failed to rationalise this common law rule\".\n\nAlthough the decision of Lord Dunedin sought to bring greater clarity to the law in 1914, in practice it often proved difficult to apply. Cases continued to come before the courts challenging provisions as a penalty, and the courts continued to wrestle with the issue. In \"Workers Trust & Merchant Bank Ltd v Dojap Investments Ltd\" Lord Browne Wilkinson tried to describe the scope of the law of penalties, and noted the slightly anomalous rules in relation to forfeiture of deposits in relation to sales of land: \"In general a contractual provision which requires one party in the event of his breach of contract to pay or forfeit a sum of money to the other party is unlawful as being a penalty, unless such provision can be justified as being a payment of liquidated damages being a genuine pre-estimate of the loss which the innocent party will incur by reason of the breach. One exception to this general rule is the provision for the payment of a deposit (customarily 10% of the contract price) on the sale of land...\"\n\nIn the course of their exhaustive review of earlier authorities in \"Makdessi\", the Supreme Court sorted through a large variety of \"obiter dicta\" relating to penalties, many of which they considered doubtful, misinterpretations of earlier decisions, or simply capable of being misconstrued.\n\nIn more recent cases the courts have taken a considerably more relaxed approach in relation to penalties. In \"Philips Hong Kong Ltd v AG of Hong Kong\" the Privy Council expressly endorsed the comments of Dickson J in the Supreme Court of Canada in \"Elsey v J.G. Collins Insurance Agencies Ltd\" that:\n\nHowever, the approbation by the Privy Council did not move the editors of \"Chitty on Contracts\" in relation to the point of law. Subsequent to the publication of that edition of \"Chitty\" the Court of Appeal expressly replicated that statement. But even the editors of \"Chitty\" have acknowledged that their own preferred test of the requirement of genuine pre-estimate of loss has become very flexible.\n\nIn 2005 Jackson LJ in \"Alfred McAlpine Projects v Tilebox\" noted that he had only seen four reported cases where a clause has been struck down as a penalty. In the same year Arden LJ, giving the judgment of the Court of Appeal in \"Murray v Leisureplay plc\" set out a series of five questions which the court should consider in relation to penalties:\nIn \"Azimut-Benetti SpA v Healey\" the court has to consider a provision whereby a boat builder was entitled to terminate for non-payment of instalments and to claim 20% of the contracted price as liquidated damages. Upholding the clause, Clarke J said that commercially justifiable clauses should be enforceable provided the dominant purpose is not to deter the other party from breach. On the facts, it was clear that the purpose of the clause was to set out a pre-determined commercial solution in the event that the buyer defaulted.\n\nIn November 2015 the Supreme Court held joint appeals in the matter of \"Cavendish Square Holding BV v Talal El Makdessi\" and \"ParkingEye Ltd v Beavis\", and took the opportunity to restate the law in a lengthy judgment. The leading judgment was a joint judgment of Lord Neuberger and Lord Sumption, but the court was unanimous save that Lord Toulson dissented in part on the \"ParkingEye\" decision. Their Lordships recounted the relevant legal history, noting that the law originated in cases relating to \"penal bonds\", and noting the parallel developments between the rule against penalties (in the common law courts) and relief from forfeiture (in the equitable courts). After noting the rule had \"not weathered well\", their Lordships recorded that in relation to consumer contracts the matter was now effectively regulated by the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations. However the rule on penalties still had a purpose to serve in relation to non-consumer contracts and it should not, therefore, be abolished. But equally the court felt that it should not be extended.\n\nThe Supreme Court then reformulated the common law test for what constitutes an unenforceable penalty clause. They held that the validity of such a clause turned on whether the party seeking to enforce the clause could claim a legitimate interest in the enforcement of the clause:\n"}
{"id": "17009636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17009636", "title": "Pope Benedict XVI bibliography", "text": "Pope Benedict XVI bibliography\n\nThe Pope Benedict XVI bibliography contains a list of works by Pope Benedict XVI.\n\nThe following is a list of books written by Pope Benedict XVI arranged chronologically by English first edition. The original German first edition publication year is included in brackets.\n\nThe following is a list of Papal encyclicals written by Pope Benedict XVI. A Papal encyclical is a letter usually treating some aspect of Catholic doctrine sent by the Pope and addressed to Catholic bishops.\n\n\nThe following is a list of apostolic exhortations written by Pope Benedict XVI. An apostolic exhortation is a type of communication from the Pope of the Roman Catholic Church that encourages a community of people to undertake a particular activity, but does not define Church doctrine. It is considered lower in formal authority than a papal encyclical, but higher than other ecclesiastical letters.\n\n\nThe following is a list of books written by Pope Benedict XVI arranged chronologically by German first edition. The English title is included in parentheses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142840", "title": "Promethea", "text": "Promethea\n\nPromethea is a comic book series created by Alan Moore, J. H. Williams III and Mick Gray, published by America's Best Comics/WildStorm.\n\nIt tells the story of Sophie Bangs, a college student from an alternate futuristic New York City in 1999, who embodies the powerful entity known as Promethea whose task it is to bring the Apocalypse.\n\nOriginally published as 32 issues from 1999 to 2005, the series has been re-published into five graphic novels and one hard-back issue. Moore weaves in elements of magic and mysticism along with superhero mythology and action, spirituality and the afterlife (in particular the Tree of Life) and science-fiction. Promethea includes wide-ranging experimentation with visual styles and art.\n\nIn the 5th century AD, a Christian mob threatens the home of a magician in Hellenistic Egypt. He tells his daughter Promethea to flee into the desert, hoping the gods of the ancient world will preserve her.\nThe story shifts to New York City in the late 20th century. Sophie Bangs is hoping to interview a woman named Barbara Shelley for a college paper on \"Promethea\", a character who seems to recur in literature and pop culture through the centuries. Shelley is hostile to her and warns, \"You don't wanna go looking for folklore. And you especially don't want folklore to come looking for you.\"\nAfter departing, Sophie is tracked and attacked by a creature known as a Smee. Just as things look bleakest for Sophie, she is rescued by Barbara, who has mystical powers and is now dressed as Promethea. She informs Sophie that the only reason she would be attacked is if someone suspects she will become the next vessel for Promethea (Barbara is the current). It turns out that Promethea is called to the world when someone uses their imagination to make her real. As they hide from the pursuing Smee, the weakened and fatally injured Barbara instructs Sophie to write a poem about Promethea hoping Sophie is indeed the successor and the creative expression is a way to get Sophie in the correct state of mind to allow herself to become Promethea. Barbara's idea works and from that night Sophie, having defeated the Smee, becomes the next Promethea.\n\nThe story continues with Sophie/Promethea learning about Promethea and the previous individuals who have in the past been the vessels for Promethea. In the days that follow, the hospital where Barbara lies is attacked by demons, an act that leads to Barbara's death. This motivates Sophie to learn more about magic, mysticism and the Tree of Life and its spheres in order to find Barbara and help her seek Steve Shelly, Barbara's dead husband. Throughout their climb up the spheres of Tree of Life Sophie/Promethea and Barbara encounter difficulties such as imprisonment by the demon Asmodeus, as well as meeting figures such as Sophie's father Juan (who died when she was little), Barbara's guardian angel Boo Boo and Promethea's father, who she has not seen since his murder in 411 A.D. Eventually Barbara and Steve find each other and are re-incarnated as twins (who Sophie ends up looking after at the end of the book). Having been gone a whole summer, Sophie is unaware the FBI has been tracking Promethea, and want to take her into custody for the events Promethea has caused throughout the years. Moments before the FBI arrives, Sophie's mother instructs her to run away (just as Promethea's father had centuries earlier).\n\nThree years pass and Sophie, having abandoned her duties as Promethea, hides in Millennium City under the alias Joey Estrada with new boyfriend Carl. However, after being found by the FBI and Tom Strong, Sophie reluctantly becomes Promethea and in turn carries out one final task; bringing about the end of the world.\n\nThe series has been both criticized for acting as a mouthpiece for Moore's philosophical views and praised for the beauty of its artwork and innovation regarding the medium itself. Regarding the first claim, the series is, by Moore's own admission, didactic: \"there are 1000 comic books on the shelves that don't contain a philosophy lecture and one that does. Isn't there room for that one?\" While the Kabbalah story arc, and the positive explanations of Moore's philosophy, very explicitly explain, talking-head style, the symbolism behind the details of every plane of existence, Promethea also contains critiques of materialism which are much more subtle. The material world is, generally, portrayed as having become immersed in commercialism, materialism, fetishism of science, and trendy postmodernist-chic. Moore uses a recurring series of billboards, fictional celebrity references, and other advertisements and/or news similar to his seminal 1980s miniseries, \"Watchmen\". \n\nAs suggested by the title \"Promethea\", which implies the feminine version of the mythological Prometheus, the title also participates in the subgenre of feminism in superhero comics. In making his lead character an aspiring poet whose words conjure the malleable form of a literary goddess—as well as the non-linear narratives and references to literary theory and alternative philosophies—Moore's thematics are closely aligned with the countercultural theory and politics of Écriture féminine.\n\nSubjects dealt with in this series include the occult, the tarot and Hermetic Qabalah. The comic is laden with mythological mystical symbolism, drawing in many religious and cultural references. Real people who appear in Promethea include Aleister Crowley, John Dee, Austin Osman Spare, and John Kendrick Bangs (who in the comic is distantly related to Sophie Bangs). \n\nIn January 2018, DC Comics, the owner of the America's Best Comics / Wildstorm imprint, introduced Promethea into its mainstream continuity by way of the comic Justice League of America #24. The controversial storyline involved Promethea assisting various superheroes in fighting a villain called the Queen of Fables. Artist J.H. Williams III is reported as having no prior knowledge of the introduction of the character into DC Comics' broader continuity, and is quoted as saying, \"I can’t in good conscience condone this happening in any form at all.”\n\nPromethea was a young girl whose father was killed by a Christian mob in Alexandria in 411 AD. After escaping the mob, alone in the desert she is taken in hand by the god Thoth-Hermes, who tells her that if she goes with him/them into the Immateria, a plane of existence home to the imagination, she will no longer be just a little girl but a story living eternally. \"Promethea\" thereafter manifests through a series of individuals or vessels who have channeled her energy through the power of imagination.\n\nSince the incident with the little girl in Alexandria, there have been eight known Promethea vessels. Six are characters in the story, the other two are told as two individuals, one Christian and one Muslim, who lived during the Crusades and fought each other. As there should only ever be one active Promethea at any one moment in history, the fight caused Promethea great pain, something that was repeated when Stacia/Grace fought Sophie/Promethea. It could be argued that there is a ninth Promethea vessel; Stacia Vanderveer. However, Stacia was only a vessel for Grace Brannagh, a dead woman who once herself was Promethea and not the original little girl.\n\nThe protagonist of the series, Sophie becomes Promethea after tracing the character's history in literature for a college paper. Her personality as Sophie is initially somewhat timid; however, by the end of the book she becomes an adept magician and confident young woman. She is the most powerful Promethea to date, and the only one not to have been killed during her time as Promethea. She changes her name to Joey after running away to Millennium City to escape the FBI and her duties as Promethea.\n\nThe wife of comic book writer Steven Shelley, Barbara became Promethea when her husband began projecting Barbara's characteristics onto the Promethea character in his comics. During her passage in the afterlife, Barbara meets her guardian angel Boo-Boo (Barbara's old nickname) who is in fact the younger, beautiful and independent young woman she used to be. By the time she finds her husband, she and Boo-Boo become one person.\n\nSophie's best friend, Stacia is an extremely cynical and sarcastic college student. During an attack at the hospital she was visiting Sophie in, Sophie uses Stacia as a vessel for Grace Brannagh to help the fight. While Sophie journeyed to find Barbara in the afterlife, Stacia/Grace were re-instated to temporarily serve as acting Promethea, leading Stacia and Grace to fall in love. After Sophie's return, Stacia and Grace refused to relinquish the Promethea title, but were forced to by a court hearing in the Immateria. After the Apocalypse, Stacia and former FBI Agent Ball become lovers, while Stacia still has sexual liaisons with Grace in the Immateria.\n\nAn illustrator who created a series of covers for pulp magazine fantasy stories about Promethea, which were written by several writers under the pseudonym \"Marto Neptura\". Brannagh was the most proficient fighter of all the Prometheas. She held the Promethea mantle from 1920–1939. In a text article in Promethea #1, Brannagh's style is compared to that of Weird Tales illustrator Margaret Brundage.\n\nJack Faust is a magician who first approaches Sophie in order to confuse her during her first days as Promethea. Jack is first seen as a handsome young man; however, this is a glamour. He is actually older, balding and overweight. Jack promises to teach Sophie magic if she (in her Promethea form) agrees to have sex with him. At first Sophie declines, but later agrees, knowing this knowledge will help her travel in the afterlife and help Barbara.\n\nThe only man to assume the role of Promethea, Bill Woolcott was a gay comic artist who became Promethea by drawing her. He was the longest-lasting Promethea, from 1939–1969, and acted as a \"science-hero\" in the ABC universe with Tom Strong during that period. Bill/Promethea most resembles a 1960s version of Wonder Woman. Bill was shot in the head by Promethea's lover, FBI Agent Dennis Drucker, who reacted violently when he discovered that his lover was (in a manner of speaking) transgender. Drucker spent several decades in an insane asylum tortured by guilt for having killed Promethea, while Bill/Promethea spent similar time in the Immateria blaming herself for not having told him the truth. The two are reunited during the Apocalypse.\n\nThe poet Charlton Sennet, in the 1770s, projected Promethea's likeness onto his housemaid Anna, transforming her into his dream lover. This Promethea bore him a child, but the baby evaporated on birth, since in a sense it was only \"half-real,\" an amalgamation of the physical nature of Charlton Sennet and the metaphysical nature of Promethea. Anna died in childbirth, leaving Charlton alone (his wife deserted him after finding him in bed with Anna/Promethea).\n\nThe writer of a William Randolph Hearst-syndicated comic strip titled \"Little Margie in Misty Magic Land\", Case wrote Promethea into her comic book as a helpful spirit to the titular young adventurer, and ended up personifying Promethea to help soldiers on the battlefield from 1900–1920, in a manner similar to the legendary Angels of Mons. Little Margie also dwells in the Immateria alongside Case and the other past Prometheas, where she is regarded as little more than a pest who interrupts \"serious\" conversation with her childlike observations, styled after the remarks of the character Nemo in the early 20th-century newspaper strip \"Little Nemo in Slumberland\". Margaret committed suicide during her tenure as Promethea.\n\nThe Five Swell Guys are a team of \"science-heroes\", and the only such team in New York City. There is similarity between them and The Fantastic Four, with their floating platform and their specialized members. The team meet Sophie Bangs in the first issue, and then meet Promethea in the third issue, after one is badly hurt.\n\nThe \"Weeping Gorilla Comix\" is a series of one-panel comics featuring a weeping gorilla, with a thought bubble pronouncing some thoughtful phrase, usually cynical and self-pitying in nature: \"Why do good things happen to bad people?\", \"Who remaindered the book of Love?\", \"She gets the kids and the house. I get the car.\", etc. The whole concept is an industry joke about the supposed tendency for comics to get increased sales from a picture of a gorilla, a weeping character, or the color purple on the cover. Occasionally Moore shows snippets of the gorilla's foil, the Chucklin' Duck, who is happy-go-lucky and naively optimistic, with smug saying such as \"Heh heh! I got out of internet trading just in time!\". Both the Weeping Gorilla and Chucklin' Duck motifs were used in the \"Greyshirt: Indigo Sunset\" series by Rick Veitch, and a Weeping Gorilla Comix panel makes a cameo appearance in the story \"King Solomon Pines\" in \"Tom Strong's Terrific Tales\" #5 (scripted by Leah Moore and illustrated by Sergio Aragones). The \"Tesla Strong\" miniseries included, amongst various versions of Solomon, one who resembled the Weeping Gorilla.\n\n\"Promethea\" features countless visual references as well as textual ones. For the majority of the series, each issue's cover features an imitation of a particular artist or style. These imitations were often explicitly credited by Williams next to his signature.\n\nThe trade paperbacks for Promethea were first released in hardcover.\nAn Absolute Edition was released from 2009 to 2011. \n\n"}
{"id": "657137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=657137", "title": "Reasonable and non-discriminatory licensing", "text": "Reasonable and non-discriminatory licensing\n\nReasonable and non-discriminatory (RAND) terms, also known as fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory (FRAND) terms, denote a voluntary licensing commitment that standards organizations often request from the owner of an intellectual property right (usually a patent) that is, or may become, essential to practice a technical standard. Put differently, a F/RAND commitment is a voluntary agreement between the standard-setting organization and the holder of standard-essential patents. U.S. courts, as well as courts in other jurisdictions, have found that, in appropriate circumstances, the implementer of a standard—that is, a firm or entity that uses a standard to render a service or manufacture a product—is an intended third-party beneficiary of the FRAND agreement, and, as such, is entitled to certain rights conferred by that agreement.\n\nA standard-setting organization is an industry group that sets common standards for its particular industry to ensure compatibility and interoperability of devices manufactured by different companies. A patent becomes standard-essential when a standard-setting organization sets a standard that adopts the technology that the patent covers. \n\nBecause a patent, under most countries' legal regimes, grants its inventor an exclusive right to exclude others from making, using, selling, or importing the invention, a standard-setting organization generally must obtain permission from the patent holder to include a patented technology in its standard. So, it will often request that a patent holder clarify its willingness to offer to license its standard-essential patents on FRAND terms. If the patent holder refuses upon request to license a patent that has become essential to a standard, then the standard-setting organization must exclude that technology. When viewed in this light, the FRAND commitment serves to harmonize the private interests of patent holders and the public interests of standard-setting organizations. Many scholars have written about these topics, as well as a variety of other legal and economic issues concerning licensing on F/RAND terms.\n\nStandard-setting organizations commonly adopt policies that govern the ownership of patent rights that apply to the standards they adopt (the patent policy). In the United States, the patent holder's agreement to adhere by the patent policy creates a legally binding contract, as the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled in Microsoft v. Motorola. One of the most common policies is to require a patent holder that voluntarily agrees to include its patented technology in the standard to license that technology on \"reasonable and non-discriminatory terms\" (RAND) or on \"fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms\" (FRAND). The two terms are generally interchangeable; FRAND seems to be preferred in Europe and RAND in the U.S.\n\nSome commentators argue that standard-setting organizations include the FRAND obligation in their bylaws primarily as a means of enhancing the pro-competitive character of their industry. They are intended to prevent members from engaging in licensing abuse based on the monopolistic advantage generated as a result of having their intellectual property rights (IPR) included in the industry standards. Once an organization is offering a FRAND license they are required to offer that license to anyone (wishing to access the standard), not necessarily only members of the organization. Without such commitment, members could use monopoly power inherent in a standard to impose unfair, unreasonable and discriminatory licensing terms that would damage competition and inflate their own relative position.\n\nOn the other hand, commentators stress that the FRAND commitment also serves to ensure that the holder of a patent that becomes essential to the standard will receive royalties from users of the standard that adequately compensate the patent holder for the incremental value that its technology contributes to the standard. The development of a patented technology typically requires significant investment in research, and contributing that technology to a standard is not the only option by which a patent holder can recoup that investment and thus monetize its invention. For example, a patent holder has the option to monetize that invention through exclusive use or exclusive licensing. Technology owners might have insufficient incentives to contribute their technologies to a standard-setting organization without the promise of an adequate royalty. The promise of a F/RAND royalty address that problem: the patent holder will typically agree to contribute its technology to the standard, thus forgoing the exclusive use or the exclusive licensing of its technology, in exchange for the assurance that it will receive adequate compensation in reasonable royalties.\n\nIn 2013, court decisions and scholarly articles cited FRAND commitments 10 times more often than in 2003.\n\nWhile there are no legal precedents to spell out specifically what the actual terms mean, it can be interpreted from the testimony of people like Professor Mark Lemley from Stanford University, in front of the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary that the individual terms are defined as follows:\n\nFair relates mainly to the underlying licensing terms. Drawing from anti-trust/competition law; fair terms means terms which are not anti-competitive and that would not be considered unlawful if imposed by a dominant firm in their relative market. Examples of terms that would breach this commitment are: requiring licensees to buy licenses for products that they do not want in order to get a license for the products they do want or requiring licensees to take licenses to certain unwanted or unneeded patents to obtain licenses to other desired patents (bundling); requiring licensees to license their own IP to the licensor for free (free grant backs); and including restrictive conditions on licensees’ dealings with competitors (mandatory exclusivity).\n\nReasonable refers mainly to the licensing rates. According to some, a reasonable licensing rate is a rate charged on licenses which would not result in an unreasonable aggregate rate if all licensees were charged a similar rate. According to this view, aggregate rates that would significantly increase the cost to the industry and make the industry uncompetitive are unreasonable. Similarly, a reasonable licensing rate must reward the licensor with adequate compensation for contributing its essential patents to a standard. Compensation is adequate if it provides the licensor with the incentive to continue investing and contributing to the standard in future time periods. It is worth noting that a licensor which has several different licensing packages might be tempted to have both reasonable and unreasonable packages. However having a reasonable \"bundled\" rate does not excuse having unreasonable licensing rates for smaller unbundled packages. All licensing rates must be reasonable.\n\nNon-discriminatory relates to both the terms and the rates included in licensing agreements. As the name suggests this commitment requires that licensors treat each individual licensee in a similar manner. This does not mean that the rates and payment terms can’t change dependent on the volume and creditworthiness of the licensee. However it does mean that the underlying licensing condition included in a licensing agreement must be the same regardless of the licensee. This obligation is included in order to maintain a level playing field with respect to existing competitors and to ensure that potential new entrants are free to enter the market on the same basis.\n\nThe most controversial issue in RAND licensing is whether the \"reasonable\" license price should include the value contributed by the standard-setting organization's decision to adopt the standard. A technology is often more valuable after it has been widely adopted than when it is one alternative among many; there is a good argument that a license price that captures that additional value is not \"reasonable\" because it does not reflect the intrinsic value of the technology being licensed. On the other hand, the adoption of the standard may signal that the adopted technology is valuable, and the patent holder should be rewarded accordingly. That is particularly relevant when the value of the patent is not clearly known before the adoption of the standard.\n\nSome interpretations of \"non-discriminatory\" can include time-oriented licensing terms such as an \"early bird\" license offered by a licensor where terms of a RAND license are better for initial licensees or for licensees who sign a license within the first year of its availability.\n\nRAND terms exclude intangible goods which the producer may decide to distribute at no cost and where third parties may make further copies. Take for example a software package that is distributed at no cost and to which the developer wants to add support for a video format which requires a patent licence. If there is a licence which requires a tiny per-copy fee, the software project will not be able to avail of the licence. The licence may be called \"(F)RAND\", but the modalities discriminate against a whole category of intangible goods such as free software and freeware.\n\nThis form of discrimination can be similarly caused by common licence terms such as only applying to complete implementations of the licensed standard, limiting use to particular fields, or restricting redistribution. The Free Software Foundation suggests the term \"uniform fee only\" (UFO) to reflect that such \"(F)RAND\" licences are inherently discriminatory.\n\nRelated to RAND licenses are RAND-Z (RAND with zero royalty) or RAND-RF (RAND Royalty Free) licensing, in which a company promises to license the technology at no charge, but implementers still have to get the licenser's permission to implement. The licenser may not make money off the deal but can still stop some type of products or require some type of reciprocity or do more subtle things like drag out the licensing process.\n\nThe negotiating process for FRAND licenses places requirements on the patent owner and the envisioned patentee. The terms for these negotiations were set in German case law in a case regarding the Orange-Book-Standard, and these terms are often used in licensing negotiations. In 2015 the European Court of Justice interpreted FRAND licensing terms in case Huawei v ZTE (C170/13, significantly diverging from the Orange-Book-Standard.\n\n"}
{"id": "38226229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38226229", "title": "Roman Imperial Coinage", "text": "Roman Imperial Coinage\n\nRoman Imperial Coinage, abbreviated RIC, is a British catalogue of Roman Imperial currency, from the time of the Battle of Actium (31 BC) to Late Antiquity in 491 AD. It is the result of many decades of work, from 1923 to 1994, and a successor to the previous 8-volume catalogue compiled by the numismatist Henry Cohen in the 19th Century. \n\nIt is the standard work for numismatic identification of coinage struck by authorisation of Roman emperors.\n\nThe production of a chronological catalogue of Roman Imperial coinage was started in 1923 by Harold Mattingly, a numismatist at the British Museum, assisted by Edward Allen Sydenham. Their catalogue differed from its predecessor, produced by Henry Cohen in the 19th Century. Although Cohen had classified the coins by emperor, and then alphabetically by the legend (text) on them. Mattingly broke down the classification further into which foundry, and in which series, each coin came from. Mattingly and Sydenham were joined by C. H. V. Sutherland in producing volumes IVb (1938) and IVc (1949), and by Percy H. Webb for volumes Va (1927) and Vb (1933). After 1930, the editorship of each of the final volumes was given to a specialist of the period. After Mattingly's death in 1964, Sutherland and R. A. G. Carson jointly took over editorship of the work.\nIn 1984, Sutherland published an expanded edition of the first volume of 1923, which was not as detailed as those that followed.\n\nThe RIC comprises 13 volumes:\n\nEach emperor is given a detailed history of the coinage of his reign, with a classification of the type of money, and within each type a registration, from its inscription.\n\nFor each coin listed, there is a description of both the obverse and reverse sides of the coin (\"heads and tails\"), and a notation depending on the rarity of known examples:\n\n\nIn the endpapers of each volume is a table of the coins that have reproductions.\n\n"}
{"id": "245437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245437", "title": "Saint Christopher", "text": "Saint Christopher\n\nSaint Christopher (, \"Ágios Christóforos\") is venerated by several Christian denominations as a martyr killed in the reign of the 3rd-century Roman Emperor Decius (reigned 249–251) or alternatively under the Roman Emperor Maximinus II Dacian (reigned 308–313). There appears to be confusion due to the similarity in names \"Decius\" and \"Dacian\". However his veneration only appears late in Christian tradition, and did not become widespread in the Western Church until the Late Middle Ages, although churches and monasteries were named after him by the 7th century.\n\nIt is disputed whether Christopher existed, and if so whether the name applied to a specific person or was a general title meaning \"Christ-bearer\" which was applied to several different real or legendary people. He may be the same figure as Saint Menas. His most famous legend, which is mainly known from the West and may draw from Ancient Greek mythology, tells that he carried a child, who was unknown to him, across a river before the child revealed himself as Christ. Therefore, he is the patron saint of travelers, and small images of him are often worn around the neck, on a bracelet, carried in a pocket, or placed in vehicles by Christians.\n\nThere are no legends associated with the life and death of Saint Christopher which first appeared in Greece and had spread to France by the 9th century. The 11th-century bishop and poet Walter of Speyer gave one version, but the most popular variations originated from the 13th-century \"Golden Legend\".\n\nAccording to the legendary account of his life Christopher was initially called Reprobus. He was a Canaanite, 5 cubits () tall and with a fearsome face. While serving the king of Canaan, he took it into his head to go and serve \"the greatest king there was\". He went to the king who was reputed to be the greatest, but one day he saw the king cross himself at the mention of the devil. On thus learning that the king feared the devil, he departed to look for the devil. He came across a band of marauders, one of whom declared himself to be the devil, so Christopher decided to serve him. But when he saw his new master avoid a wayside cross and found out that the devil feared Christ, he left him and enquired from people where to find Christ. He met a hermit who instructed him in the Christian faith. Christopher asked him how he could serve Christ. When the hermit suggested fasting and prayer, Christopher replied that he was unable to perform that service. The hermit then suggested that because of his size and strength Christopher could serve Christ by assisting people to cross a dangerous river, where they were perishing in the attempt. The hermit promised that this service would be pleasing to Christ.\n\nAfter Christopher had performed this service for some time, a little child asked him to take him across the river. During the crossing, the river became swollen and the child seemed as heavy as lead, so much that Christopher could scarcely carry him and found himself in great difficulty. When he finally reached the other side, he said to the child: \"You have put me in the greatest danger. I do not think the whole world could have been as heavy on my shoulders as you were.\" The child replied: \"You had on your shoulders not only the whole world but Him who made it. I am Christ your king, whom you are serving by this work.\" The child then vanished.\nChristopher later visited Lycia and there comforted the Christians who were being martyred. Brought before the local king, he refused to sacrifice to the pagan gods. The king tried to win him by riches and by sending two beautiful women to tempt him. Christopher converted the women to Christianity, as he had already converted thousands in the city. The king ordered him to be killed. Various attempts failed, but finally Christopher was beheaded.\n\nHistorical examination of the legends suggests Reprobus (Christopher) lived during the Christian persecutions of the Roman emperor Decius (249 to 251), and that he was captured and martyred by the governor of Antioch. Historian David Woods has proposed that St. Christopher's remains were possibly taken to Alexandria by Peter of Attalia where he may have become identified with the Egyptian martyr Saint Menas.\n\nThe legend of Saint Christopher records two important historical facts that identify him with the historical Saint Menas. The first is that the Greek and Latin legends of Saint Christopher identify him as belonging to the Third Valerian Cohort of the Marmantae (Latin: \"Cohors tertia Valeria Marmantarum\"), a military unit of Northern Africa of Marmarica (between modern day Libya and Egypt), recruited by none other than the Emperor Diocletian. The second is that Saint Christopher was martyred in Antioch.\n\nThe martyrdom of Saint Menas corresponds to the details of the legend of Saint Christopher. The theory that identifies the two saints as one and the same concludes that the name \"Christopher\" meaning \"Christ-bearer\" was a title given to the name of the valiant Menas who died in Antioch. Since he was not a native of that land, his name was not known and so he was simply revered by his generic title: \"Christophoros\" or \"Christ-Bearer.\" Saint Menas happens to be the patron of travelers in the Coptic tradition, which further supports an association with Saint Christopher who is the patron of travelers in the Greek and Latin traditions.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church venerates Christopher of Lycea with a Feast Day on May 9. The liturgical reading and hymns refer to his imprisonment by Decius who tempts Christopher with harlots before ordering his beheading. The Kontakion in the Fourth Tone (hymn) reads:\n\nThou who wast terrifying both in strength and in countenance, for thy Creator's sake thou didst surrender thyself willingly to them that sought thee; for thou didst persuade both them and the women that sought to arouse in thee the fire of lust, and they followed thee in the path of martyrdom. And in torments thou didst prove to be courageous. Wherefore, we have gained thee as our great protector, O great Christopher.\n\nThe Roman Martyrology remembers him on 25 July. The Tridentine Calendar commemorated him on the same day only in private Masses. By 1954 his commemoration had been extended to all Masses, but it was dropped in 1970 as part of the general reorganization of the calendar of the Roman rite as mandated by the motu proprio, \"Mysterii Paschalis\". His commemoration was described to be not of Roman tradition, in view of the relatively late date (about 1550) and limited manner in which it was accepted into the Roman calendar, but his feast continues to be observed locally.\n\nSt. Christopher has a sister. The Museum of Sacred Art at Saint Justine's Church (Sveti Justina) in Rab, Croatia claims a gold-plated reliquary holds the skull of St. Christopher. According to church tradition, a bishop showed the relics from the city wall in 1075 in order to end a siege of the city by an Italo-Norman army.\n\nMedallions with St. Christopher's name and image are commonly worn as pendants, especially by travelers, to show devotion and as a request for his blessing. Miniature statues are frequently displayed in automobiles. In French a widespread phrase for such medals is \"Regarde St Christophe et va-t-en rassuré\" (\"Look at St Christopher and go on reassured\", sometimes translated as \"Behold St Christopher and go your way in safety\"); Saint Christopher medals and holy cards in Spanish have the phrase \"Si en San Cristóbal confías, de accidente no morirás\" (\"If you trust St. Christopher, you won't die in an accident\").\n\nSt. Christopher is a widely popular saint, especially revered by athletes, mariners, ferrymen, and travelers. He is revered as one of the Fourteen Holy Helpers. He holds patronage of things related to travel and travelers — against lightning and pestilence — and patronage for archers; bachelors; boatmen; soldiers; bookbinders; epilepsy; floods; fruit dealers; fullers; gardeners; a holy death; mariners; market carriers; motorists and drivers; sailors; storms; surfers; toothache; mountaineering; and transportation workers.\n\nChristopher is the patron saint of many places, including: Baden, Germany; Barga, Italy; Brunswick, Germany; Mecklenburg, Germany; Rab, Croatia; Roermond, The Netherlands; Saint Christopher's Island (Saint Kitts); Toses in Catalonia, Spain; Mondim de Basto, Portugal; Agrinion, Greece; Vilnius, Lithuania; Riga, Latvia; Havana, Cuba; Paete, Laguna, Philippines and Tivim, Goa, India\n\nBecause St. Christopher offered protection to travelers and against sudden death, many churches placed images or statues of him, usually opposite the south door, so he could be easily seen. He is usually depicted as a giant of a man, with a child on his shoulder and a staff in one hand. In England, there are more wall paintings of St. Christopher than of any other saint; in 1904, Mrs. Collier, writing for the British Archaeological Association, reported 183 paintings, statues, and other representations of the saint, outnumbering all others except for the Virgin Mary.\n\nIn Eastern Orthodox iconography (and sometimes in the Western), Saint Christopher is sometimes represented with the head of a dog. The background to the dog-headed Christopher is laid in the reign of the Emperor Diocletian, when a man named \"Reprebus\", \"Rebrebus\" or \"Reprobus\" was captured in combat against tribes dwelling to the west of Egypt in Cyrenaica. To the unit of soldiers, according to the hagiographic narrative, was assigned the name \"numerus Marmaritarum\" or \"Unit of the Marmaritae\", which suggests an otherwise-unidentified \"Marmaritae\" (perhaps the same as the Marmaricae Berber tribe of Cyrenaica). He was reported to be of enormous size, with the head of a dog instead of a man, apparently a characteristic of the Marmaritae. This Byzantine depiction of St. Christopher as dog-headed resulted from their misinterpretation of the Latin term \"Cananeus\" (Canaanite) to read \"canineus\" (canine).\n\nAccording to the medieval Irish Passion of St. Christopher, \"This Christopher was one of the Dog-heads, a race that had the heads of dogs and ate human flesh.\" It was commonly accepted at the time that there were several types of races, the Cynocephalus, or dog headed people, being one of many believed to populate the world.\n\nThe German bishop and poet Walter of Speyer portrayed St. Christopher as a giant of a cynocephalic species in the land of the Chananeans who ate human flesh and barked. Eventually, Christopher met the Christ child, regretted his former behavior, and received baptism. He, too, was rewarded with a human appearance, whereupon he devoted his life to Christian service and became an athlete of God, one of the soldier-saints.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "743176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=743176", "title": "Single-field dictionary", "text": "Single-field dictionary\n\nA single-field dictionary is a specialized dictionary that has been designed and compiled to cover the terms of one particular subject field. Single-field dictionaries should be contrasted with multi-field dictionaries and sub-field dictionaries.\n\nThe typology consisting of these three dictionaries is important for a number of reasons. First of all a single-field dictionary is an example of a very specialized dictionary in that it covers only one single subject field. Examples of single-field dictionaries are a dictionary of law, a dictionary of economics and a dictionary of welding.\n\nThe main advantage of single-field dictionaries is that they can easily be maximizing dictionaries, i.e. attempt to cover as many terms of the subject field as possible without being a dictionary in several volumes. Consequently, single-fields dictionaries are ideal for extensive coverage of the linguistic and extra-linguistic aspects within a particular subject field.\n\nSecondly, if the lexicographers intend to make a bilingual, maximizing single-field dictionary they will not run into the same problems with the space available for presenting the large amount of data that has to be included in the dictionary, cf. a multi-field dictionary.\n\nConsequently, the best coverage of linguistic and extra-linguistic aspects within the subject field covered by a dictionary will be found in a single-field dictionary. However, even more extensive coverage is possible in a sub-field dictionary.\n\n"}
{"id": "57043387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57043387", "title": "The Black Book of Poland", "text": "The Black Book of Poland\n\nThe Black Book of Poland is a 750-page report published in 1942 by the Ministry of Information of the Polish government-in-exile, describing atrocities committed by Germany in occupied Poland in twenty-two months between the invasion of Poland in September 1939, and the end of June 1941. All estimates, presented in the book section by section, are based on data collected while the war in the East was in progress, and the killing of Jews by means of carbon monoxide gas during Operation Reinhard – launched in 1942 for the implementation of the \"Final Solution\" – only began. All casualties are partially summarized. The book includes documentation proving more than 400,000 cases of deliberate killings at an average of 1,576 per day. It is also considered a follow-up to \"The Polish White Book\" of 1941.\n\n\"The Black Book\" is a collection of authenticated documents, depositions, eye-witness accounts, and Ministerial summaries, describing and illustrating with photographs, the Nazi crimes against the Polish nation and War crimes in occupied Poland during World War II committed in mere two years: including massacres, tortures, expulsions, forced colonization, persecution, destruction of culture, and humiliation of a nation. \n\nThe book is a sequel to \"The German Invasion of Poland\" compiled by the Polish government-in-exile and published in 1940, sometimes considered as the first volume of this publication series. The original volume deals with the war crimes of the September 1939 invasion of Poland. \"The Black Book\" by G.P. Putnam's Sons of New York (or the 'second volume' of \"The Black Book of Poland\") was published in London by Hutchinson under a different title: The German New Order in Poland, with only 585 pages and 61 plates. \"The Black Book\" is composed of nine sections, preceded by an Introduction titled 'Hora Tenebrarum'. All sections include long Appendices. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19962866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19962866", "title": "The Institute for Cultural Research", "text": "The Institute for Cultural Research\n\nThe Institute for Cultural Research (ICR) was a London-based, UK-registered educational charity, events organizer and publisher which aimed to stimulate study, debate, education and research into all aspects of human thought, behaviour and culture. It brought together many distinguished speakers, writers and Fellows over the years.\n\nA statement issued in 2013 by the institute on its official web site read: \"As of summer 2013, the Institute has suspended its activities following the formation of a new charity, The Idries Shah Foundation.\"\n\nThe institute was founded in 1965 by the well-known writer, thinker and Sufi teacher Idries Shah to facilitate the dissemination of ideas, information and understanding between cultures. Its Objects and Regulations were officially first adopted on 21 January 1966.\n\nIn his book \"Listening to Idries Shah\", author, psychotherapist and tutor, Ivan Tyrrell recounts a conversation in which Shah explained his reasons for founding the ICR: \"I want to attract ordinary people and help them think about psychological and cultural issues. But, as an individual, I can't easily get people to listen seriously. I discovered, however, that if I call myself an 'institute' – they will,\" Shah told him. Tyrrell adds: \"I heard [Shah] say many times over the years, 'We live in an appearance culture' [...] That is one reason why it was necessary for him to create ICR: people like to join an organisation and be part of a community.\"\n\nBased for some time at Tunbridge Wells in Kent, the institute was later based in London. Shah acted as the Institute's Director of Studies whilst still alive. Nobel Prize-winning novelist Doris Lessing, who was influenced by Idries Shah, has also contributed to the Institute.\n\nThe Institute's stated aim was \"to stimulate study, debate, education and research into all aspects of human thought, behaviour and culture\" and to make the results of its members' academic work accessible to society and also to academics working in different fields.\n\nThe body, which had a number of distinguished Fellows, published several dozen academic monographs and some books over the years and held regular events. These events usually included a series of six lectures by specialists per year, and a two-day seminar which is usually held in the Autumn. The aim of these was \"to connect ideas across disciplines, across cultures, and even through history\" and to bring about a broader, more holistic understanding by looking at issues from several different perspectives, with particular interest in human thought and behaviour and issues neglected by contemporary culture.\n\nIn addition, the Institute supported projects in areas where freedom of access to facts was threatened, for example in the case of Afghanistan where assistance had been given to the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)'s female educational projects.\n\nAll the Institute for Cultural Research's activities were open to the general public.\n\nThe institute published so many monographs and hosted so many lectures and seminars that only a small sample of notable contributors are listed here.\n\nSee also .\n\nLecturers included:\n\nMonograph writers included:\n\nBooks published by the ICR included \"Cultural Research\" edited by the writer Tahir Shah, and \"Cultural Encounters: Essays on the interactions of diverse cultures now and in the past\", edited by Robert Cecil and David Wade.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7884270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7884270", "title": "The Worm and the Ring", "text": "The Worm and the Ring\n\nThe Worm and the Ring is a 1961 novel by English novelist Anthony Burgess, drawing on his time as a teacher at Banbury Grammar School, Oxfordshire, England, in the early 1950s.\n\nIt is Burgess's version of the Ring Cycle. The Dragon pub in the novel corresponds to the worm and a purloined diary to the ring.\n\n\nThe novel was withdrawn from circulation following a libel action by Gwendoline Bustin, the secretary of Banbury Grammar School, where Burgess had taught in the early 1950s. Several characters were recognisable as figures from the school, but only Miss Bustin, later Lady Mayoress of Banbury, objected. Heinemann agreed to \"amend all unsold copies of the book\" (\"The Times\", 25 October 1962) but actually pulped them.\n\nA revised edition of the novel, with the libellous elements removed, was published in 1970. \n"}
{"id": "53502696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53502696", "title": "V&amp;A Dundee", "text": "V&amp;A Dundee\n\nV&A Dundee is a design museum in Dundee, Scotland, which opened on 15 September 2018. The V&A Dundee is the first design museum in Scotland and the first Victoria and Albert museum outside London. The V&A Dundee is also the first building in the United Kingdom that has been designed by Kengo Kuma.\n\nThe plan for a V&A museum in Dundee originated at the University of Dundee in 2007 when Professor Georgina Follett (then Dean of Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art and Design) suggested to bring the V&A to Dundee to University of Dundee Principal Sir Alan Langlands. Subsequently, Joan Concannon, the university's director of external relations, made a 20-minute pitch to Sir Mark Jones, then director of the Victoria and Albert Museum, in which the case for Dundee was made including its potential as an anchor for the urban regeneration of the waterfront. A design competition took place in 2010 to decide what the museum would look like. The Japanese architect Kengo Kuma won the competition, his design was inspired by the eastern cliff edges of Scotland.\n\nBAM Construction carried out the construction work beginning in April 2014. The original completion date was 2017 but was delayed to 2018. During construction a cofferdam was installed to allow the outer wing expand on to the River Tay and 780 tonnes worth of pre-cast, grey, concrete slabs were added to the outside of the building.\n\nThe V&A Dundee opened to the public on 15 September 2018 with international and national press previews taken place beforehand from 13–14 September 2018. The opening was celebrated with a 3D Festival which featured acts such as Primal Scream, Be Charlotte and Lewis Capaldi and had featured a light show and a firework display. The opening highlights were broadcast on BBC Two Scotland in a programme hosted by Edith Bowman. The museum set itself the target of attracting 500,000 visitors within a year of its opening; it attracted 27,201 visitors during its first week, 100,000 in its first three weeks.\n\nThe exhibition galleries are where the temporary exhibitions are placed.\nThe Scottish Design Galleries feature permanent design works from across Scotland.\n\nCharles Rennie Mackintosh's Oak Room was originally completed in 1908 after being commissioned by Catherine Cranston for use as a tearoom on Ingram Street in Glasgow. The 13.5 meter long double-height room now forms a part of the permanent Scottish Design Gallery at the museum. The Oak Room was restored from over 700 original parts that were stored by Glasgow City Council for over 50 years. The room took 16 months to install and the total cost of the restoration and conservation was £1.3 million (2018).\n\nBefore the museum opened, the V&A Dundee launched a 'school design challenge' in 2015 where 11-12 year olds from S1 classes had to use design to change their everyday environment. It included schools from across Dundee, Tayside, Angus and Fife.\n\nThe V&A Young People's Collective are a group of 16 to 24 year olds that contribute to the young voice of the museum. The group meet every Thursday and take over the V&A Dundee's Twitter account. The Young People's Collective co-designed the 3D Festival alongside DF Concerts which was part of the museum's opening.\n\nThere are 50 design champions of the V&A Dundee. The design champions are ambassadors to the museum.\n"}
{"id": "43963555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43963555", "title": "Walsh v Kerr", "text": "Walsh v Kerr\n\nWalsh v Kerr [1989] 1 NZLR 490 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding the remedy of damages for breach of contract.\n"}
{"id": "52841229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52841229", "title": "William of Lindholme", "text": "William of Lindholme\n\nWilliam of Lindholme is a legendary British giant, who lived in the Fenland town of Lindholme, South Yorkshire.\n\nHe is held to have thrown the \"thumb stone\" and \"little-finger stone\" from Lindholme to Wroot, some three miles distant.\n"}
{"id": "54604045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54604045", "title": "Yosef Yitzchak Kazen", "text": "Yosef Yitzchak Kazen\n\nYosef Yitzchak Kazen (1954 – 1 December 1998), also known as Y.Y. Kazen, was an American Chabad-Lubavitch Hasidic rabbi. He is known for creating and running Chabad.org in 1988, before the World Wide Web existed.\n\nKazen was born in Cleveland, Ohio to Rabbi Zalman and Shula Kazen. After arriving in Brooklyn, New York from the Soviet Union, the Kazens moved to Cleveland after being encouraged to do so by the Lubavitcher Rebbe. As a child, Kazen went to the Cleveland Kaliver Yeshivah and the Hebrew Academy and studied after school with his father. He also studied in New York and Brazil. He attended high school at the Telshe (\"Telz\") Talmudic Academy in Cleveland and later attended the Central Lubavitch Yeshivah.\n\nIn 1988, Kazen started working on Chabad.org on his home computer after discovering message boards on Fidonet. He received the Lubavitcher Rebbe's approval, and worked from his basement answering emails and later running the website. He was later given an office at Lubavitch Headquarters. He was inspired to create a website to aid in Chabad's outreach.\n\nKazen answered emails as part of \"Ask the Rabbi\" since 1988, making it the longest running online \"Ask the Rabbi\" service. In 1993, Chabad.org was launched on the World Wide Web. Kazen's outreach included organizing a Passover service on a boat near Antartica, sending kosher recipes to Jews worldwide, making thousands of Jewish documents and texts available online and using the site to answer e-mails and frequently asked questions as part of \"Ask the Rabbi\".\n\nKazen was featured in the 24 Hours in Cyberspace photographic exhibition at the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History.\n\nEven after being diagnosed with lymphoma 1998, Kazen continued to answer e-mails and update Chabad.org using a laptop in the hospital. Kazen died on 1 December and was buried in the Lubavitch section of the Old Montefiore Cemetery in Queens, New York near the Lubavitcher Rebbe and the Frierdiker Rebbe.\n\nAs of 2013, 488,431 people worldwide are subscribed to Chabad.org's emails, the site has 25 \"Ask the Rabbi\" responders, 744,370 questions answered in the past decade, content from 1,890 authors, hundreds of kosher recipes and thousands of video and audio files.\n\nKazen married Rochel. Together, they had six children: Raizy, Michoel, Shmuel, Choni, Peretz and Sarah.\n"}
